July 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Youth connect with 'hope' amid the pandemic||Among all initiatives undertaken to dispel negativity created by the pandemic, the youth of the country play a major role. With the aim of instilling positivity in current scenario, RAC Chandigarh Shivalik successfully celebrated three events from July 12 to 16, under the district project 'Hope'. One of the first was, 'Panchayat'. Rotaractors discussed mental health during the event and shared their views and experiences on the issue. Many positive thoughts were brought up during the discussion. Each rotaractor shared a story of their beloved one who once may have been in an unavoidable situation and how they overcame it. On the second day, rotaractors spoke about 'Dream Destinations'. With travelling having halted globally, it seemed to be a great way to cherish old memories and talk about dreams post the Covid-19 scenario. Everyone talked about the places that they would like to visit worldwide and shared a memory of their best trip so far. Their next 'Memoire', on July 14 helped each rotaractor embrace their bond with a loved one. Each person had to video call their best chum or a friend who may have long ghosted them, later on sharing screenshots of the call along with a small message on what kind of a bond they share. Keeping in mind the significance our grandparents have in our lives, an online meeting was organized for our third event 'Mehfil'. Rotaractors invited their grandparents to this meet and everyone had a great jamming session. Rtr. Ishita Khanna, the General Secretary stated, "It was a very delightful and fun chat session which definitely helped each rotaractor to bring positivity in their lives during the difficult times. The district wishes to come up with more new ideas in the future to keep everyone charged up.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/youth-connect-with-hope-amid-the-pandemic/articleshow/77115879.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Goa||Online art workshop on fabric painting||Masks are now a necessity but who wouldn't want a fashionable and trendy mask? To answer this Katya Coelho, a windsurfer from Candolim recently organised a one day fabric painting class for her those who wanted to take up painting. "We had a class for only 10 people as training more is very difficult. The response from everyone was very good. I taught them how to use different types of colours and paint on fabric. People want to have something nice on their masks, it has to be trendy and unique and if they can do it themselves it is always an added advantage," says Katya. She adds, "Many of our customers are looking for handmade masks, I have got some clients who wanted masks made with superhero artwork, some wanted their names on it and it gives me a lot of pride to teach people to do it at home.”  There have been various types of innovative ideas that the mother daughter duo are experimenting on. “We have been making matching dresses and hairbands, which are very popular among people. The recent collection is of jute material. Though this a one of the highest produced there is very little made. So I’m trying to tap into that fabric.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/online-art-workshop-on-fabric-painting/articleshow/77115956.cms||Kimberly Colaco
July 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Sonu Punjaban sentenced to 24 years' imprisonment in prostitution, human trafficking case||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court on Wednesday sentenced Geeta Arora alias Sonu Punjaban to 24 years in prison in connection with a prostitution and human trafficking case observing that she has no right to live in civilized society and deserves the severest punishment. Additional sessions judge Pritam Singh also slapped a fine of Rs 64,000 on her. The court also sentenced another accused Sandeep Bedwal to 20 years imprisonment and asked him to pay a fine of Rs 65,000 as well. The court noted that due to offences committed against the victim, her education as well as her childhood was made hell and recommended a compensation of Rs 7 lakh to the victim and directed the Delhi Legal Service Authority to do the needful. "She (punjaban) forcibly administered drugs to the victim so that she could not resist a customer (man), who would sexually exploit her. She applied chilly powder on the breast of the victim and also put it into her mouth in order to create fear in her mind that she should act as per her wishes otherwise be ready to face brutality," the court observed in its order. The court noted that the convict Sonu Punjaban not only purchased the victim for prostitution but she also brutalized her to make her surrender to her demands. "The modesty of a woman is next to her soul. How a woman can outrage and brutalize the modesty of another woman, who is minor, in such a horrific way. The shameful deeds of convict Sonu Punjaban deprives her of any leniency from the courts. A person, irrespective of gender, who does such horrific and terrible acts, has no right to live in a civilized society and for her best place to live is in the four boundaries of the jail," the order said. "At this tender age girls not only go to school but they enjoy their childhood while playing with their friends and enjoy the protection of their parents. However, the victim had suffered physical and mental trauma at the hands of both the convicts and their associates," it added. The court observed that it is well known that the victim of sexual offences not only faces mental and physical trauma but is also subjected to social stigma and in most of the cases they have to change their residence which also causes financial losses to the victim or her family. The court had on July 16 convicted Sonu Punjaban in connection with a kidnapping, prostitution and human trafficking case and another accused Sandeep Bedwal under the charge of raping a minor girl. According to the police, the girl fell in love with Sandeep, who took her to a house in Laxmi Nagar on the pretext of marriage and raped her in September 2009. He sold the victim, who was 12 years old at the time, to one Seema Aunty. Seema Aunty forced the victim into prostitution and gave her drugs injection, police said based on the statement of the minor girl and added that she was sold several times and once to convict Sonu Punjaban. Sonu Punjaban used her for prostitution and before sending her to customers also administered drugs such as proxyvon and alprex tablets and also injected drugs to the victim so that the body of the victim became tight and more suitable for prostitution, the police said. The victim had come to Najafgarh police station on February 9, 2014, and after counselling, her statement was recorded by the police, wherein she narrated her ordeal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-sonu-punjaban-sentenced-to-24-years-imprisonment-in-prostitution-human-trafficking-case/articleshow/77116198.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Varanasi||From monotone to designer: Banarasis are ‘masking’ in this glory||While earlier the face mask was a good way to protect one from air pollution with few people wearing it, in Covid times it has become a necessity. And while earlier it was just a dull piece of cloth, now it has become a fashion statement. From embroidered ones to colour co-ordinated, the mask has become a must-have accessory worthy of flaunting. DESIGNERS MASKS ARE IN “Earlier as we used to match our clutch purses, sandals and other accessories with our dress, now customers want matching masks,” says Gunjan Suneja, a Varanasi based designer. “Matching masks are very popular and are now the new style statement for everyone including kids,” she adds. “A mask has become an essential accessory, so people want a lot of variation in that. Simple black and white masks don't gel with all outfits, so they are now wanting designers ones with embroidery and also in zari,” says Sonia Didwania, who runs a boutique in Varanasi. Babbal Bhatiya, a Prayagraj based designer says,she has a collection of masks in more than 20 shades. “At times people walk in to buy masks in every available colour so that they have a matching one with their every dress. A lot of stripes and polka dot ones are popular,” says Babbal.  Zardozi and chikankari masks, and ones matching the outfit are in great demand (BCCL)MAKE FOR A GREAT GIFT TOO These designer mask have become a great gifting option for the forthcoming festival of Raksha Bandhan.”I already have orders for the festival where people want to give an assortment of designer masks to their relatives and family members,” says Sonia Didwania. “Mask are figuring prominently among the raksha bandhan gift hampers this time. People are getting it customized according to the liking of the person who is being gifted. For example, if it is for a kid then a cartoon figure is there on the mask or somebody has a liking for bandhani then it is bandhani mask for them,” says Gunjan. (BCCL)DEMAND FOR DESIGNER MASKS IS HIGH IN UTTAR PRADESH“Masks are rapidly moving away from being just a protective layer to a fashion statement in Uttar Pradesh. Currently, designer masks are gaining popularity. We have witnessed a seventy percent increase in the sale of designer masks in June as compared to May in the state. There's a high demand for designer masks from Lucknow, Noida and Kanpur,” says Rajnish Wahi, Senior Vice President – Corporate Affairs & Communications, Snapdeal. According to him, the trend for designer masks is currently more popular in the bigger cities of Uttar Pradesh like Lucknow, Agra, Kanpur, Mathura, Varanasi. Orders from smaller cities such as Meerut, Saharanpur, Rampur, Jhansi, Bareilly, and Etawah are also increasing. “Popular prints of designer masks include floral, geometric, camouflage, ikat, animal, and polka dots. Solid summer colours and neutrals also continue to be picked,” adds Wahi. Masks with quotes like ‘I need a quarantini’, ‘air hugs’, and ‘if you’re reading this, you’re too close’ are being picked too. Many have positive messages like ‘today is a good day’, ‘everything will be okay’, ‘enjoy every moment’ and ‘don’t panic.’ Kids’ masks in playful prints and fun colours are popular. The sale of bandanas, handkerchiefs, stoles, and scarves of different prints and colours has also increased significantly which also double up as masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/from-monotone-to-designer-banarasis-are-masking-in-this-glory/articleshow/77112852.cms||Meera Vohra
July 23, 2020||India||With more work and better pay, deliverymen are on a roll again||Their job was always tough and dangerous but the lockdown made it precarious. As food orders dried up and containment rules curbed the movement of non-essentials, delivery riders stared at an uncertain future. The fear of infection gnawed on their minds but the dread of hunger was greater. Many returned to their villages and small towns. Baleshwar Yadav stayed on although food orders had thinned to a trickle. He signed up on several food delivery platforms for more work. When that didn’t help, he turned to ecommerce companies as they were still getting orders. The lockdown bit Saabir Ali’s family hard. While he kept his delivery job with Amazon, his father and younger brother lost theirs. Even Ali had less work. But those days are in the past now, he says. “Most roads have opened, so I am able to deliver quickly and things seem more normal.” Read more from this seriesGaurav Pal, who delivers for Grofers, agrees. Work is more stable, the shifts shorter and he is able to spend more time with his 10-month-old child. “Our team of six was delivering just 60-70 orders a day. Now, we share more than 140 orders. Our incentive pay has increased.” Pal said his take-home had increased from Rs 16,000 to Rs 20,000-22,000. Pintu, who also delivers for Grofers, said he earns Rs 3,000 more now as the deliveries have doubled in the Unlock phase. “In the lockdown, we could not reach some of the areas, and sometimes I didn’t get even 10 deliveries in a day. But things are better now.” A Flipkart spokesperson also told TOI that the unlock phase has made ecommerce operations smoother and they are delivering “essentials and non-essentials across 100% of serviceable pin codes across the country.” Besides better pay, delivery personnel have another source of satisfaction now: a realisation of the important role they play in keeping others safe. “During the lockdown, there were times when I delivered goods at houses with infants and the elderly, who are completely housebound,” said Monu Kumar, who works at Flipkart’s Okhla delivery hub. “Once, I had to take the stairs to a fifth-floor house to deliver essentials to an elderly person living alone. I was extra cautious and followed every step of our company’s hygiene regulations.” He said he is less anxious about his own safety now as he follows the safe delivery rules religiously. Rakesh, who came to Delhi six years ago and works for another delivery platform, said he is happy to have got through four months of the pandemic safely. “While I have more orders to deliver now, I remain careful at every step. (This story is part of a series in association with Facebook. Facebook has no editorial role in this story.)Watch With more work and better pay, deliverymen are on a roll again||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/with-more-work-and-better-pay-deliverymen-are-on-a-roll-again/articleshow/77111064.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
July 23, 2020||Kanpur||From monotone to designer: Kanpurites are ‘masking’ in this glory||While earlier the face mask was a good way to protect one from air pollution with few people wearing it, in Covid times it has become a necessity. And while earlier it was just a dull piece of cloth, now it has become a fashion statement. From embroidered ones to colour co-ordinated, the mask has become a must-have accessory worthy of flaunting. DESIGNER MASK, LATEST FASHION ACCESSORYFashion designer Kanchan Gupta from Kanpur says that masks have become a fashion accessory. “A lot of my clients at my boutique now have placed orders for designer masks. Some clients ask for masks matching their outfits whereas some ask for embroidered ones. Recently, I made a mask for a bride who matched the mask with her bridal lehenga. Even now, I have several orders for bridal masks." Zardozi and chikankari masks, and ones matching the outfit are in great demand (BCCL)A MUST-HAVE PIECE OF CLOTHKanchan adds that since masks have become a necessity, people are not looking for options in it rather than just wear a plain one. “Monotone is out now, now its a lot of bling and embroidery. If the current situation continues till winters then designers in Kanpur can look forward to even more orders for designer face masks,” she says. ADDING THAT EXTRA BLING TO THE ATTIREFashion designer Umama Ibrahim, also an exporter of chikan apparels, says, “There is a huge demand for designer masks these days. Since masks have become a necessity, people don’t want to wear dull ones. Just like a nice suit or a dress, they want their masks also to be nice. That’s why I have got lots of orders for chikan, embroidered, hand printed, lace and dyed masks. virus. People are also wanting colour co-ordinated or masks matching their outfits.” (BCCL)DEMAND FOR DESIGNER MASKS IS HIGH IN UTTAR PRADESH“Masks are rapidly moving away from being just a protective layer to a fashion statement in Uttar Pradesh. Currently, designer masks are gaining popularity. We have witnessed a seventy percent increase in the sale of designer masks in June as compared to May in the state. There's a high demand for designer masks from Lucknow, Noida, and Kanpur," says Rajnish Wahi, Senior Vice President – Corporate Affairs & Communications, Snapdeal. According to him, the trend for designer masks is currently more popular in the bigger cities of Uttar Pradesh like Lucknow, Agra, Kanpur, Mathura, Varanasi. Orders from smaller cities such as Meerut, Saharanpur, Rampur, Jhansi, Bareilly, and Etawah are also increasing. “Popular prints of designer masks include floral, geometric, camouflage, ikat, animal, and polka dots. Solid summer colours and neutrals also continue to be picked," adds Wahi. Masks with quotes like ‘I need a quarantini’, ‘air hugs’, and ‘if you’re reading this, you’re too close’ are being picked too. Many have positive messages like ‘today is a good day’, ‘everything will be okay’, ‘enjoy every moment’ and ‘don’t panic.’ Kids’ masks in playful prints and fun colours are popular. The sale of bandanas, handkerchiefs, stoles, and scarves of different prints and colours has also increased significantly which also double up as masks,” says Wahi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/from-monotone-to-designer-kanpurites-are-masking-in-this-glory/articleshow/77113095.cms||Sumit Jha
July 23, 2020||India||Govt files caveats in Uttarakhand HC, Supreme Court on Char Dham road problem||NEW DELHI: The Centre has filed two caveats – one in Uttarakhand High Court and another the Supreme Court – pleading the courts not to pass any order with regard to the Char Dham highway project without hearing the Centre’s point of view. Recently, one high powered committee (HPC) on this project set up by the apex court has submitted two reports to the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) by two groups. TOI on Sunday had reported how there was vertical divide within the group over what should be the bituminous road width; whether it should be 5.5 or 10 meters. Sources said the centre has approached court keeping in view that someone can take the matter to the judiciary. Meanwhile, there are indications that the road transport and highways ministry may adopt a strategy to see that the bituminous roads on critical stretches, where works are yet to be sanctioned, are limited to 5.5 meters and the rest are widened to 10 meters. Only 153 out of the total 900-km stretch linking to the four holy places are yet to be sanctioned. About 250 km of the stretch has been completed till now. The Centre is keen to complete this flagship project before the Uttarakhand assembly poll scheduled in 2022.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-files-caveats-in-uttarakhand-hc-supreme-court-on-char-dham-road-problem/articleshow/77117006.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 23, 2020||India||All Cabinet proposals to specify impact on 'Atmanirbhar Bharat'||NEW DELHI: “Atmanirbhar Bharat” is now going to be an integral part of all proposals seeking approval of Union Cabinet and Cabinet committees. In a circular issued on Wednesday, the Cabinet Secretariat said all notes “shall henceforth indicate how the proposal under consideration will help in realising the goal of Atmanirbhar Bharat by encouraging domestic manufacturing, reducing import dependence, increasing exports, etc.” The ministries have been directed to put these details in a separate paragraph after the paragraph on “financial implications” in all such notes. Sources said earlier in May all the ministries were also asked to put such details in the Cabinet proposals. The latest direction said in cases where proposals don’t have any bearing on the objective of Atmanirbhar Bharat, there should be a “justification” as to why such details were not provided. It said to attain the objective of self-reliance, it’s important that critical reforms and initiatives aimed at economic growth, attracting investments and enhancing global competitiveness are ushered in. One such important inclusion in Cabinet proposals in recent years was how proposals, particularly in infrastructure space, would create more jobs in terms of man days. Indicating job creation has become a regular narrative of all cabinet briefings and statements issued by the government. In yet another move, the Cabinet secretariat has instructed ministries to incorporate all major milestones and targets with detailed timeline in cabinet proposals for all infrastructure projects. The ministries were recently asked to give the timelines for all the decisions which were approved since 2014 and are yet to be completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/all-cabinet-proposals-to-specify-impact-on-atmanirbhar-bharat/articleshow/77117123.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 23, 2020||India||With Chinese troops yet to disengage, Army stocks up for harsh Ladakh winter||NEW DELHI: An Army marches on its stomach, but also needs specialised clothing, prefabricated shelters, Arctic tents, fuel and other equipment to sustain itself through the harsh winter of a super high-altitude region like eastern Ladakh. The Indian Army has kicked off the process for this massive logistical exercise to ensure adequate special rations and other supplies for its soldiers, with Chinese troops yet to even “completely disengage” from the immediate face-off sites on the north bank of Pangong Tso and Gogra-Hot Springs in eastern Ladakh. “If the usual requirement in Ladakh is for about 30,000 metric tonne of rations for the entire year, this time at least double the quantity will be re quired due to the additional troops deployed there,” a senior officer said Wednesday. ThePLA is not going anywhere soon. So, we are systematically preparing for the long haul, with the planning for our logistics and ‘advance winter stocking’ (AWS) underway,” he said. “We may have to maintain a lot of our troops in the forward areas even during the winter to ensure PLA cannot exploit the situation,” he said. The AWS, which includes planning, procurement and arranging transportation for supplies, is a long-drawn complicated yearly exercise to “pre-position and stock supplies” in all forward locations before the onset of snowfall and winter. The challenge is much more forbidding this time because more than triple the number of normal troops are now deployed in the region after the military standoff with China erupted in early-May. The forward locations, most of them over 15,000-feet in altitude, become largely inaccessible from November onwards. The AWS supplies are carried in truck convoys from the plains of north India through the two road routes to Ladakh from Srinagar via the Zoji La pass and Manali via the Rohtang Pass, which remain open from May to October every year. The air route to Leh from Chandigarh and other places is also used but has its own limitations due to altitude and weather conditions. Though the AWS exercise is already underway, the Army is also working on some alternate plans. One is to keep the Zoji La Pass open throughout the winter with the help of the Border Roads Organisation, said sources. There is also an ongoing review of the “scale of rations” for the troops. “The usual norm is to have 2.5 kg of rations per soldier per day. But if the frills can be slashed without compromising the calorific value of around 3,500 kilocalories per man per day, it can reduce the weight of the rations by around 1 kg,” said a source. In earlier years, the Army used to have around 150 days from June to September for the entire AWS exercise. But it has already been shortened this time, along with reduced efficiency due to Covid. Moreover, the availability of special dehydrated rations in such huge quantities is itself a challenge. Watch Indo-China face-off: Army stocks up for harsh Ladakh winter, with Chinese troops yet to disengage||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/with-chinese-troops-yet-to-disengage-army-stocks-up-for-harsh-ladakh-winter/articleshow/77117141.cms||Rajat Pandit
July 23, 2020||India||Covid: Govt ready with tech-driven plan for 7 key areas||NEW DELHI: The government has identified seven key areas for technology-driven transformation in the post-Covid world and is developing solutions on a public-private partnership (PPP) mode as part of the strategy. The seven areas include digital payments and financial inclusion, digital health and nutrition, technologies to ensure connectedness in a physically distant world, manufacturing and supply chain model to power the economy, digital inclusion of SMEs and farm-to-table technology to drive agriculture growth. The efforts are being powered by over 60 top technology leaders and government think tank NITI Aayog is spearheading the exercise in collaboration with other departments and entities. PM Narendra Modi held an interaction with technology experts and bureaucrats to brainstorm on the strategy and identify technologies for blue collar workers to map their skills, use of artificial intelligence and machine learning and tele-medicine. The PM urged the experts to find solutions for a situation which will enable the concept of “walk to work” in case of blue and grey collarworkers. Officials said specific use for technology-led solutions have been identified and re sources committed. Work is on for developing Unnati, a technology platform livelihood access for 20 crore grey and blue collar workers. This is expected to be launched mid-July. A low-risk lending product for lower middle class segment is also being developed. This would be DBT income-based underwriting. The Sam Shiksha-education for all- is a platform for curated courses aimed at degree and diploma segments. It will serve as a virtual campus that deploys innovative tools. The KYC setu will be a fully digital KYC platform and solve the problem of paper-based KYC. Then there is the unified logistics interface platform for seamless and efficient logistics, using data and technology. This provides end-to-end visibility in road transportation, digitisation of paper work such as consignment documents, and e-way bills and AI platforms. The SME bridge is use of digital infrastructure to deliver benefits to small businesses while the Krishi Neev platform is for interoperability of farm data platforms and will link farmers to buyers. Swasth is the open source tele-medicine platform. This is a private sector-led innovation in partnership with the government. Watch Covid-19: Govt ready with tech-driven plan for 7 key areas||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-govt-ready-with-tech-driven-plan-for-7-key-areas/articleshow/77117299.cms||Surojit Gupta
July 23, 2020||India||India distances itself from Pakistan move to get Kulbhushan Jadhav a lawyer||ISLAMABAD/NEW DELHI: India has distanced itself from a move by Pakistan on Wednesday to approach the Islamabad high court for appointment of a lawyer for a review of Indian national Kulbhushan Jadhav’s sentencing by a military court. Pakistan approached the court, as official sources said, without the consent of the Indian mission in Islamabad. India sees the move by Pakistan as another attempt to grandstand and create a smokescreen of review and reconsideration of the death sentence to Jadhav. While Pakistan is learned to have “extended” the deadline for India to file a review petition in the case, it has not agreed to India’s demand that a lawyer from outside Pakistan represent Jadhav. As per Pakistan’s May 20 ordinance, the review petition had to filed within 60 days of the promulgation of the ordinance. India, though, doesn’t want to respond to every change in deadline or even Pakistan’s position in the case when it’s yet to get what Indian officials describe as unconditional, and also private, access to Jadhav. Calling for an effective review and reconsideration of the military court’s verdict, the ICJ had last year also held Pakistan guilty of violating the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations by denying consular access to Jadhav. An ICJ spokesperson was quoted as having said on Wednesday that the court’s judgment was final, binding and without appeal. The Hague-based ICJ had ruled that Pakistan had failed to inform Jadhav of his rights, and deprived the Indian government “of the right to communicate with and have access to him, to visit him in detention and to arrange for his legal representation”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-distances-itself-from-pakistan-move-to-get-kulbhushan-jadhav-a-lawyer/articleshow/77117437.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
July 23, 2020||India||ED raids Rajasthan CM’s brother, Congress cries foul||NEW DELHI/JODHPUR: Agrasen Gehlot, the elder brother of Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, and his firm Anupam Krishi were at the centre of nationwide searches carried out by the Enforcement Directorate on Wednesday. Gehlot is accused of illegally exporting 35,000 tons of potassium chloride (Muriate of Potash: MoP), a restricted commodity issued at subsidised rates for use of farmers, making a wrongful gain. Agrasen, allegedly as part of a “smuggling syndicate”, exported the fertiliser “mis-declaring the consignments as industrial salt” to buyers in Malaysia and Taiwan. The raids covered Agrasen’s Jodhpur residence and premises linked to him in Rajasthan, Gujarat, Delhi and Kolkata. Rejecting claims made by Congress that the raids were politically motivated, a senior ED official said the agency registered a money laundering investigation against Gehlot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ed-raids-rajasthan-cms-brother-congress-cries-foul/articleshow/77117531.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Business||Next fiscal push may come after Covid-19 vaccine: CEA||NEW DELHI: The government may prefer to provide a fiscal push once uncertainty over the Covid-19 pandemic declines with the arrival of a vaccine, chief economic adviser Krishnamurthy Subramanian said on Wednesday, while stressing the importance of counter-cyclical policies. “I will emphasise again that the government is willing to do what is necessary in terms of government spending, but the timing of this is extremely important. Now that there is news coming that vaccine may not be actually very far off, once we have the vaccine then the uncertainty that people have will go down significantly. And till we have the uncertainty, even if people have money in their pockets, they may actually decide to keep that in their banks as saving accounts, and that’s what I was referring to about the increase in PMJDY (Jan Dhan) accounts by about Rs 20,000 crore,” Subramanian said at a webinar organised by Ficci. “The question is not about if, the question is about when, and I think the right point would be that if the vaccine comes through in the next few months and thereby the uncertainty goes down, I think the time would be very right for a fiscal push which will generate the demand even for discretionary items ... counter-cyclical fiscal policy is important, but the timing is also as important to ensure that the bang for the buck is maximised,” Subramanian said, while answering on the need for a fiscal push to help boost growth. The government has unveiled a series of measures and reforms to overcome the devastating impact of the pandemic. But in recent weeks, there have been demands for another fiscal push to boost economic activity. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s top economic advisers have proposed an investment-led stimulus to help revive the economy. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has also said that the government is ready to take more steps in the future to revive growth. Subramanian said the problem of non-performing assets was holding back the banking sector and called for using fintech to improve the quality of lending. “We can’t become the third-largest economy with the health of the banking system that we have,” Subramanian said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/next-fiscal-push-may-come-after-covid-19-vaccine-cea/articleshow/77117578.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Hubballi||Cattle theft racket busted in Davanagere||DAVANAGERE: Police nabbed three people allegedly involved in stealing several cows in different parts of the district on Wednesday. They recovered seven stolen cows along with a mini van used for the crime from trio. At a press conference here on Wednesday evening, SP Hanumantharaya said a complaint was lodged on July 18 by one Manja Naik of Kaatihalli Tanda after two of his cows were stolen on July 17 midnight from the cattle shed. In this connection, a special team headed by rural DSP Narasimha V Thamradwaja was formed. Accordingly, the team busted the racket involved in the crime. The accused are 29-year-old Vinodraj, 24-year-old Praveen Naik, and 28-year-old Umesh Naik. They confessed to have stolen the seven cows from Kaatihalli Tanda, Siddanuru, Laxmipura Tanda and Gudaalu in the last 20 days and were planning to sell them to Lokesh Naik of M L Tanda in Chikmagalur district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cattle-theft-racket-busted-in-davanagere/articleshow/77114993.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Business||Punit Goenka quits Zee Media board||MUMBAI: Essel Group chairman Subhash Chandra’s oldest son Punit Goenka has stepped down from the board of Zee Media Corporation, a company which runs national and regional news channels. Following this development, none of the family members have a seat on the board of Zee Media. In a regulatory filing, Zee Media said Goenka, a non-executive, non-independent director, has resigned from the company due to a “pre-occupation”. Promoters own 37% in Zee Media, but almost the entire holding is pledged (as on June 30, 2020). Goenka, however, continues to be the MD & CEO of Zee Entertainment Enterprises, in which promoters own about 5%. Around 21% of this stake too is pledged. After the family’s stake fell to 5%, Chandra resigned from the chairman’s position in Zee Entertainment last November. A source said that Goenka relinquished his board position at Zee Media as he wanted to focus only on Zee Entertainment. Also, with financial investors holding more than the promoters in Zee Entertainment, the board of directors’ services agreement restricts executive members in holding positions in other family-run enterprises/external outfits. The Zee Media stock closed 1.3% up at Rs 5.5 on the BSE. The stock, after rising to a recent high of Rs 7.20 in mid-June from a low of Rs 3 in late March, has seen some profit-booking to its current value.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/punit-goenka-quits-zee-media-board/articleshow/77115903.cms||Reeba Zachariah
July 23, 2020||Business||India sees 100 million e-payments daily||BENGALURU: India is currently seeing 100 million digital transactions daily worth about Rs 5 lakh crore, according to RBI chief GM P Vasudevan. The numbers indicate that e-payments are well on their recovery path to pre-Covid levels. Before the lockdown, the daily digital transaction volume was around 120 million, Vasudevan said at an event — the Global Fintech Festival, an event attended by top payments sector executives and regulators. “Last year, around this time, daily transaction volumes were 80-85 million. If we go to June 2016, it was only 22 million. So, in the last five years, we have seen significant growth in digital payments at a CAGR of 58% in volume and 15% in value terms,” Vasudevan said. During the discussion, National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) MD & CEO Dilip Asbe said digital transactions can easily reach 1 billion daily volumes by 2025, based on the current growth outlook. “We will definitely do 1 billion daily digital transactions. I don’t have any doubt in my mind,” said Asbe, who has been driving the Unified Payments Interface (UPI) network, which clocked over 1.3 billion transactions last month, surpassing pre-Covid volumes of February. While the future growth potential of digital payments was echoed by all, multiple sessions during the event saw industry executives raising the need to bring the merchant discount rate (MDR) back in the ecosystem in some form. Earlier in the year, the government made MDR, a fee to enable digital payments, zero and this move did not find any favour in the ecosystem. “I do believe the government will reconsider the reasonable MDR to come back. That’s important,” said Asbe. According to him, $500 million to $1 billion of cost is borne by the merchant-acquiring ecosystem on an annual basis to “sustain the digital payment infrastructure, including manpower, servicing and typical (such) assets”. In another session, Amitabh Kant, CEO of NITI Aayog, a think tank of the government, talking to PhonePe co-founder Sameer Nigam, said the payments industry should tell the government on solving the issue of zero MDR. This is the first time a senior government official has publicly spoken on the matter. “If you tell us, we will take up the issue at the right place. The solution need not be binary (bringing back old-rate of MDR or no MDR),” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-sees-100m-e-payments-daily/articleshow/77115983.cms||Digbijay Mishra
July 23, 2020||Patna||2 die in Covid isolation wards of West Champaran hospitals||BETTIAH: Two people succumbed in the Covid isolation wards of Narkatiaganj sub-divisional hospital and Government Medical College, Bettiah, respectively on Wednesday. Civil Surgeon Arun K Singh said, “The Nakatiaganj patient had co-morbidities.” While the confirmation added to the tally of five Covid deaths reported earlier by the state health department, a video grab of the isolation ward of the medical college shows gross negligence by the authorities which went viral on Wednesday. Shot by an inmate’s attendant, it showed a young patient with an oxygen mask lying on the bed in the ward. The attendant is heard alleging that the patient has been left unattended by doctors and nurses. Other patients too have been left to fend for themselves, the attendant alleged. Late in the evening when word spread that the young patient had succumbed, both the deputy superintendent and the medical college principal pleaded ignorance. “ I have come to the collectorate for a meeting,” deputy superintendent Sri Kant Dubey said. Medical College principal Binod Kumar too did not confirm the death. “Allegations in the video are lies. There is a roster of doctors and nurses on duty,” he said adding that a fear psychosis is trigerring such video shoots. Late in the evening when TOI tracked the patient’s brother on phone, he said: “ I am still at the isolation ward to collect my brother’s body.” “My brother died at 5:18 pm,” he said, confirming that he himself had shot the video earlier in the day in exasperation when repeated cries for help failed to elicit any response from doctors and nurses. “We had admitted him here on Monday,” he said, adding, “His Covid test report is still pending.” This is a tale that has recurred after a banker’s death a few days earlier. Surprisingly, the Bettiah Medical College is yet to receive Covid confirmation kits. Meanwhile, a fear psychosis that the medical college principal spoke of is indeed gripping people at large with reports of low testing, inordinate delays in confirmation and videos alleging callous treatment. Amid reports of these two deaths within a day, seven police personnel including four officers were reported to be Covid positive at Chanpatia police station. “Altogether, 28 people from my force have tested positive,” SP Nitasha Gudiya said..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-die-in-covid-isolation-wards-of-west-champaran-hospitals/articleshow/77114424.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
July 23, 2020||Lucknow||AKTU, KMCLU final year exams from Sept first week||Lucknow: Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU) and Khwaja Moinuddin Chisti Language University (KMCLU) will conduct examinations for their final-year students in September first week. The two universities have also reduced the duration of examinations from three hours to two. For the first time since its establishment over 20 years ago, final year students of AKTU will be appearing for a multiple choice question-based examination. Around 60,000 AKTU students will appear for the objective type exams, which would be conducted from September 1-5. “Our students have received job offers and they need a degree at the earliest. Hence, we decided to go for an MCQ-based examination which will be held on OMR sheet. It will also speed up the evaluation process and ensure that results are declared on time,” said AKTU vice-chancellor Prof Vinay Kumar Pathak. He said that the examination of carryover papers of final year students will also be conducted along with the regular exams. “In the two-hour exam, students will have to attempt 75 questions. The examinations of all three subjects of engineering courses will be held on one day. The exams for MBA and BPharma will be conducted within two days. The examinations will be held in three shifts,” Pathak added. Meanwhile, around 600 students of Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti Language University (KMCLU) will appear for two-hour exams instead of three. The varsity will be conducting the exams from September 1-15. “We will be reducing both the duration of the exam and the number of questions to be answered. Earlier, there were four units in a question paper and it was mandatory for a student to attempt one question of 10 marks from each unit. Now, students will have to attempt two questions from the four units, which will carry 20 marks each,” said KMCLU vice-chancellor Prof Mahrukh Mirza. He said there will be no change in the short answer section, which is compulsory for all students. The sections contains six questions of five marks each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aktu-kmclu-final-year-exams-from-sept-first-week/articleshow/77116925.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Allahabad||Criminal with Rs 25k bounty held by STF||Prayagraj: The Special Task Force (STF), Prayagraj unit, on Wednesday arrested a hardened criminal and seized an illegal pistol of 0.12 bore, two live cartridges, two mobiles, Aadhar card and Rs 750 cash from his possession. The arrested person identified as Rohit Kumar Tripathi is a resident of Bhawanpur (Jethwara) of Pratapgarh district and was wanted by police in connection with five criminal cases. He was also carrying Rs 25,000 cash reward on his head. Additional SP ( STF) Neeraj Kumar Pandey told TOI, “After receiving a tip off about the movement of the criminal near Belkhariyan Ka Purwa, Sagra Sundarpur, a team of STF cordoned the area and managed to arrest him. He is a notorious robber and had been sent behind the bars twice before.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/criminal-with-rs-25k-bounty-held-by-stf/articleshow/77116379.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Business||WhatsApp plans pensions, loans||Digbijay Mishra & Madhav Chanchani | TNN Bengaluru: WhatsApp India head Abhijit Bose says the company will start multiple pilots in areas like digital lending, micro-insurance and micro-pension. He added WhatsApp will also help micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) digitise over the next 18 months, outlining for the first time plans for financial services. Bose further said that, while WhatsApp has about 400 million users, it can bring at least 200 million new users to the Unified Payments Interface (UPI) platform as it takes on Alibaba and SoftBank-backed Paytm, Walmart-backed Phonepe and units of Amazon and Google. The statement by Bose comes at a time when WhatsApp is likely to get a go-ahead for a broader rollout of its digital payments business under UPI, which has been stuck in beta with just 1 million users for two years. WhatsApp’s parent company Facebook invested $5.7 billion in Reliance Industries earlier this year, and the two are also expected to collaborate on the e-commerce business. Giving examples of some products the company is thinking about, WhatsApp said these include a pension scheme targeted at 300 million self-employed workers, which may cost as low as Rs 50 a day. WhatsApp said it will work with banks, financial services companies and fintech startups to get regulatory approval and come up with products, leveraging its distribution to reduce costs. Once these solutions become successful, it will “co-invest” further in them and scale using the “venture model”. “The goal is not to bring payments to the masses. We need to bring services to the masses,” said Bose at a conference, where he highlighted that WhatsApp already has 15 million small business users in India. Bose, who left his payments startup Ezetap to join WhatsApp in 2018, also said that the company plans to expand the number of banks using the messaging app, especially in rural and lower-income segments. He said that Kotak Mahindra Bank’s 2 million customers and ICICI Bank’s 1 million customers are already using it to communicate. Bose said that the potential for digital lending in India by 2025 stands at $120-150 billion across 30 million MSMEs, which don’t have access to formal credit, helping contribute 6-7% of GDP growth. Last month, WhatsApp had told the Supreme Court that it was in full compliance with data-localisation norms of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), as TOI had reported. It told the apex court in its response that it has “localised five data elements” that were identified by the banking regulator and mandated them to be stored in India only. WhatsApp has also faced a setback in other global markets like Brazil, where its payments services were suspended last month a week after the launch. Digital payments on UPI recorded the highest ever monthly transaction volumes of 1.34 billion in June, jumping back to pre-Covid-19 levels. UPI had seen 1.32 billion transactions in February before the virus outbreak in India. By value, these transitions were to the tune of 2.61 lakh crore, compared to Rs 2.22 lakh crore in February, according to data from National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), which manages UPI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/whatsapp-plans-pensions-loans/articleshow/77115884.cms||Digbijay Mishra
July 23, 2020||Business||LICHF cuts home loan rate to 6.9%||TNN Mumbai: LIC Housing Finance, the country’s second-largest mortgage company, has reduced interest rates on home loans to 6.9% — the lowest it has ever charged. For loans above Rs 50 lakh, the interest rate is 7%. The company is also offering for the first time home loans to senior citizens who receive a defined benefit government pension. The new rates are applicable for loans up to Rs 50 lakh and for borrowers who have a credit score of over 700. Announcing the new rates, MD & CEO Siddhartha Mohanty said that there has been a softening of cost of funds, which is expected to continue. He said that there is no dearth of liquidity in the markets and the company’s cost of funds, which is currently 5.6%, could come down further. Before the lockdown, in February, LICHFL had partnered Google Cloud for digitising home loan proposals through a mobile application HomY. The loans can be used for scanning and submitting documents. Mohanty said that with this app, borrowers from across the country can apply for a new loan or refinance their existing loan. Prior to the latest rate reduction, the company was charging an interest of 7.5%. The new rates will be eligible for borrowers who seek to refinance their existing loans with LICHFL. Existing home loan borrowers who are paying a higher rate can switch to the new rates by paying a nominal fee. Market leader HDFC currently charges 6.95% for loans up to Rs 30 lakh where the borrower is a woman. For loans from Rs 30 lakh to Rs 75 lakh, the interest rate rises to 7.2%. The home loan for pensioners — Griha Varishtha — can be availed for a term of up to 30 years or attainment of 80 years of age, whichever is earlier. This product caters to retired or serving employees of PSU insurers, central/state government, railways, defence, banks, etc, entitled to pension under defined benefit pension plan. For higher loan eligibility, the applicant can also jointly apply with their earning children. Additional benefits under this scheme include six EMI waivers for customers going for ready-to-move units or 48 months’ moratorium period for purchase of under-construction units. Borrower fulfilling the PMAY CLSS criteria will be eligible for interest subsidy up to Rs.2.67 lakh, which will be an added advantage. Mohanty said that around 25% of the loan book was under moratorium, while of its builder loans nearly 60% have availed of the moratorium. He said that lending activity, which was stagnant in April and May, had picked up in June. But the second wave of lockdowns in July has hurt home loan sales.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lichf-cuts-home-loan-rate-to-6-9/articleshow/77115672.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Vadodara||Duplicate engine oil scam busted, 3 held||Vadodara: The special operations group (SOG) has busted duplicate engine oil scam and arrested three persons on Wednesday. The cops have also seized raw material worth lakhs of rupees from the godown where the oil was being made since many months. Two other accused involved in the scam are yet to be arrested. SOG sleuths said that they intercepted a jeep ferrying duplicate oil following an alert on Dabhoi Road on Wednesday and found 90 cartons of duplicate oil worth Rs 4.97 lakh. Driver Waseem Fakir was arrested and he revealed the location of the godown where the duplicate engine oil was made. “We raided the godown owned by Nusrat Mehendi Bhojawala in Manek Estate on Dabhoi Road. Apart from containers with branded companies’ stickers, we seized refilling machines and raw material worth Rs 31 lakh from the spot,” a SOG official said. The cops arrested Nusrat and his accomplice Shabbir Sheikh who used to help in ferrying the duplicate oil. The police said that Nusrat used to get supply of raw material from Raghu Thakore, a resident of Valsad. He used to refine the engine oil at his godown in the city, fill it up in containers with stickers of branded companies and sell it off. Apart from Thakore, the cops are yet to arrest Kalpesh Jain, a resident of Narmada, who used to buy the duplicate oil. This is the second time Nusrat has been arrested by the SOG in last two months. In June this year, SOG sleuths had arrested him from his home in Panigate area for making duplicate engine oil. The cops had seized stickers, a machine and oil worth Rs 3.34 lakh from the spot. In 2014 too, he was arrested for running duplicate engine oil making factory in Ranoli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/duplicate-engine-oil-scam-busted-3-held/articleshow/77114614.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Patna||Ara man, son donate plasma||ARA: Bhojpur district magistrate (DM) Roshan Kushwaha felicitated Indrajeet Upadhyay and his son Aman Upadhyay , residents of Nala Mor, ward no-13 of Ara town, after the duo voluntarily decided to go for plasma donation at AIIMS-Patna on Tuesday. Both the father and the son duo had recovered from the Covid-19 infection last month. Bhojpur DPRO incharge Rashmi Choudhary said on Wednesday that the Bhojpur DM lauded their noble work and felicitated them with the title of ‘Corona Daanvir’ . They were also given a health card that will entitle the duo and their other family members the facility for treatment at AIIMS-Patna on priority basis. Corona warrior Indrajeet Upadhyay said , “I did not face any physical or mental problem after donating plasma. Hence I encouraged my son also for plasma donation. In fact, I sincerely request all patients who have recovered from corona, to donate their plasma for the benefit of other Covid-19 patients.” Meanwhile on Wednesday, two other Covid recovered patients of Bhalhipur locality of Ara have also decided to go for plasma donation to AIIMS-Patna, said the Bhojpur DPRO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ara-man-son-donate-plasma/articleshow/77114515.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Patna||Bihar cops seek Rs 50 lakh insurance cover in case of Covid death||PATNA: The Bihar Police Association and Bihar Police Men’s Association have demanded an insurance cover of Rs50 lakh for all those men in uniform in case of anyone’s death due to Covid-19. An assistant sub-inspector in Aurangabad and a BMP havildar in Patna have died of Covid-19 in state so far. A delegation of the two associations held a meeting with the top police officers on Wednesday to press for their demand. ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar, ADG (law and order) Amit Kumar, IG (headquarters) Nayyar Hasnain Khan and IG (budget, appeal and welfare) Paras Nath were present in the meeting. The delegation led by the president of the two respective associations, Mrityunjay Kumar Singh and Narendra Kumar Dheeraj, was called at the police headquarters at Sardar Patel Bhawan. Singh told TOI over phone that the top officers assured them to put their demand before the government. “We had written letters to the police headquarters twice in the past for insurance cover against death of a police man due to Covid-19 as we are on the frontline in managing things, but nothing concrete took place yet. We cited example of Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and a few other states where police personnel were being provided with similar insurance cover in case of death due to Covid-19,” he said. Singh said their second demand was for providing proper medical facility to police personnel failing ill amid the pandemic. “We also got a positive response on this issue too. We have been asked to seek assistance from IG (headquarters), who will coordinate in getting police personnel admitted in hospitals like AIIMS-Patna in case someone’s health deteriorates due to Covid-19,” he said, adding a large number of police personnel in state were infected with Covid-19, but performing duty even in illness. Singh also said senior officers had also assured that they would write to health department to uplift the police hospitals, which presently had no facilities at all. He said their last demand was to postpone transfer-posting of police personnel amid pandemic. “IG (headquarters) has been asked to look into this issue as well. We are told that he may issue order soon for staying transfers temporarily or else SPs of all districts on Thursday would be directed via videoconferencing not to relieve anyone who had been transferred,” Singh said. The police association has around 20,000 members from assistant sub-inspector to inspector ranks while police men’s association has around 70,000 members from constables to havildar ranks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cops-seek-rs-50l-insurance-cover-in-case-of-covid-death/articleshow/77114375.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 23, 2020||Patna||Bihar: As tally rises, RRT functioning comes under scanner||GAYA: As the number of Covid positive cases and deaths rises in Gaya, functioning of the much-publicised Rapid Response Team (RRT) constituted to combat the menace has come under scanner. The RRT was first constituted in Anugrah Narain Magadh Medical College & Hospital (ANMMCH) to fast track sampling and contact tracing. Subsequently, RRTs were constituted at the PHC-level too. No data is available in the public domain on the performance of the teams. Health department has been emphasising the need for performance audit of those responsible for treatment and prevention of the pandemic. The Central team too, reportedly expressed its displeasure on performance deficit in contact tracing and proper sampling. As per statistics available, the first positive case in the district was registered on March 30. Between March 30 and July 17, 586 new cases were found at an average of five case per day. In the four days between July 17 to 21, the positivity number went up to 960, which comes to about 94 cases per day. According to ANMMCH sources, which was notified as a Covid special hospital on April 5, 26 deaths have been reported in the last one week. However, according to ANMMCH superintendent Dr Harichand Hari, “Altogether 17 Covid-related deaths have taken place in the hospital.” When asked about the total number of fatalities since April 5, Dr Har said that the figures are not available off hand and he was too pre-occupied to dig records. On the performance of the RRT, DM Abhishek Singh said that in initial stages, the performance was satisfactory but as the number of cases began rising, the RRTs found it difficult to cope up with the challenge. The functioning of the RRTs is being strengthened and the teams would be made accountable. Asked about complaints that the RRT is often shielded by the powers that be and hence they are not working sincerely, the DM said that he was not in a position to comment on the issue. “Such complaints will be taken up by a special cell headed by an IAS probationer. The cell will also look into the functioning of senior doctors and deployment pattern. Hopefully, problems will be fixed and transparency would be introduced,” the DM added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/as-tally-rises-rrt-functioning-comes-under-scanner/articleshow/77114463.cms||Abdul Qadir
July 23, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Over 13,000 foreign returnees complete 7-day quarantine||GAYA: Over 13,000 of the 16,000-odd foreign returnees have been discharged after completing the weeklong mandatory institutional quarantine in the state. According to the figures released by the Gaya district administration on Tuesday evening, altogether 16,142 people have come back from 14 different countries, including the United Kingdom (UK), Russia, Ukraine, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates (UAE), Oman, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka. Of these, 15,140 are from Bihar and the remaining from Jharkhand. Earlier, the ministry of home affairs had designated the Gaya airport as the disembarkation point for Bihar-Jharkhand residents stranded abroad on account of the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. The process of rescue and repatriation began on May 18 when a special Air India flight landed at Gaya with 41 people, including 13 from Jharkhand, as part of the Vande Bharat Mission (VBM). All those rescued were stranded in the UK. Gaya airport director Dilip Kumar pointed out that the VBM flights were operated by Air India and IndiGo. Besides, several foreign airlines like FlyDubai, Jazeera Airways, Kuwait Airlines, Etihad Airways, Qatar Airways, Air Arabia, SalamAir, Thai AirAsia, Thai Smile, Myanmar National Airlines and Myanmar Airways International also operated repatriation flights. District magistrate (DM) Abhishek Singh told this newspaper that all foreign returnees were put under institutional isolation for the first seven days after which they remained in home isolation for another seven days. At the start of the VBM, the institutional quarantine period was 14 days. Subsequently, in June, the span was reduced to seven days. The DM said, “Nearly three-fourth of the returnees have opted for government-managed quarantine centres with free food and lodging facilities. The government spends more than Rs 2,000 for the upkeep of each returnee, who does not opt for self-paid quarantine.” Only 3,542 of the returnees chose paid quarantine while more than 11,000 opted for government-managed centres. The maximum number of people returned from the UAE (3,938), followed by Kuwait (3,748), Oman (2,429), UK (41) and Egypt (20).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/over-13k-foreign-returnees-complete-7-day-quarantine/articleshow/77114525.cms||Abdul Qadir
July 23, 2020||Patna||Separate isolation centre for medicos in Bihar||GAYA: As no less than a dozen Gaya doctors have so far tested Covid-19 positive and the facility at the ANMMCH besides being inadequate, is getting over stretched, Gaya chapter of the IMA is considering setting up an isolation centre at the IMA Bhavan here exclusively for medical professionals. Some enthusiastic doctors including Dr Ratan Kumar, has put forward this proposal. Incidentally, the first doctor in the state to die of Covid-19, Dr Ashwini Nandkuliyar, was from Gaya. Another doctor is undergoing treatment at AIIMS, Patna. According to Dr Ram Sewak Prasad Singh, president, Gaya chapter of the IMA, the feasibility of establishment of an isolation centre exclusively for doctors is being considered. A final decision is yet to be taken. As private doctors too are exposed to Covid threat, Dr Singh demanded heavy insurance cover for private practitioners as well. Critical care facility at ANMMCH is quite inadequate and even available resources are not being properly used. According to the IMA chief, no less than 20 ventilators acquired by the hospital for the proposed trauma centre lay abandoned and have almost become dysfunctional.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/separate-isolation-centre-for-medicos/articleshow/77114479.cms||Abdul Qadir
July 23, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Students can’t block engineering seats any more||KOLKATA: The counselling for the engineering seats across all tech colleges and universities in Bengal this session is likely to undergo a major change. Apart from the higher education department’s proposal to cap the number of counselling rounds at three, the candidates will not be able to hold on to their spots after each round. If they do not accept the seats offered based on their ranks, then they will have to exit the round and re-enter the next cycle of counselling. This has been done to ensure there is a lower number of vacancies. The state also wants to put an end to blocking of seats up to the decentralized counselling round, which allows private colleges to take in students for a higher fee. The higher education department has proposed to introduce the changes from the 2020 WBJEE counselling. A senior JU engineering faculty member said, “Many candidates who may have remained in Bengal move out after the first few rounds when they find their preferred choices at their desired institutes are blocked. Later, when the candidate who had held on to the seat eventually releases it, an interested student may have already left the state.” “There will be less migration in the 2020-2021 academic year considering the prevailing pandemic situation in the country. Thus, interested candidates with high ranks on the merit list are likely to stay back in the state. If the counselling policy is changed, more seats will be filled up,” said a WBJEEB official. Officials in Bikash Bhavan who are drafting the policy hope that by the time decentralized counselling starts, a good number of seats will be taken up by meritorious students. “There will be further transparency in the counselling system,” a source said. Pradip Chopra, iLead chairman, said when the engineering counselling was introduced, there were more candidates than seats. “Now the situation has changed. The IT boom has faded. Interest among the candidates has diminished for engineering while the seats have increased manifold. The engineering colleges are closing down. Thus, a candidate will find a seat eventually,” he added. “Every year, WBJEE counselling stretches over four rounds, often leading to seats staying vacant. The government has initiated the changes to lessen the problem of empty seats and expects more candidates to remain in Bengal.A final decision may be taken in the next few weeks as the WBJEE (engineering) results are likely to be published in August,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/students-cant-block-engg-seats-any-more/articleshow/77116406.cms||Somdatta Basu
July 23, 2020||Patna||‘Bans Ghat to remain open 24X7’||PATNA: The state government on Wednesday deputed an IAS, an IPS and five BAS officers each at the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH), Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) and All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) to ensure proper treatment of Covid-19 patients. Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, who reviewed the status of all the three hospitals, said, “Covid control rooms have been set up at the NMCH and the PMCH where people can lodge complaints. The hospitals also have a dedicated team of health workers who monitor the status of every Covid patient round the clock.” Considering the fact that it is not possible for doctors to remain inside the isolation wards for a long time, their duty hours have been reduced from 8 hours to 4-6 hours. “A chart will be put up on the notice board of the hospitals so that the superintendents ensure that the doctors stick to their duty hours. Action will be taken against the absentees,” Agarwal said. He added, “The closed-circuit television cameras installed at the PMCH and the NMCH are to be monitored by the Covid control room. We are also planning to install intercoms at the hospitals so that the patients, doctors, superintendents and control rooms remain connected.” After several videos of patients buying and carrying their own oxygen cylinders went viral on social media, as many as 165 beds in the intensive care unit of the NMCH were connected to oxygen pipelines and 25 ventilators given to the PMCH. Besides, the health department has provided more vehicles to the PMCH and the NMCH for the transportation and disposal of bodies at ghats. “The Bans Ghat will remain open 24X7 so that the last rites of the Covid patients can be performed. The Patna Municipal Corporation workers will also be deputed for the disposal of bodies,” Agarwal said, adding that the body handlers at the NMCH and the PMCH would get Rs 500 as incentive for their work. The divisional commissioner claimed that the situation had “improved a lot at the NMCH after the Covid control room became functional”. Altogether 760 patients were discharged from the hospital on Wednesday. Dr Vinod Singh, the newly appointed superintendent of the NMCH, also took charge on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bans-ghat-to-remain-open-24x7/articleshow/77115242.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 23, 2020||Kolkata||Post court order, parents reaching out to schools for clarification on fee payment||KOLKATA: The Calcutta HC order on Tuesday has made parents rush to schools, seeking clarifications and assuring to abide by the directives. On Wednesday, school authorities received multiple queries from guardians. Most of the schools have assured parents of all possible assistance in the matter related to fees. “After Tuesday, the parents are more conscious. They are now aware of how they will have to clear their dues. They understand they will have to make the payments and now they know we will not discontinue online classes for their wards. Hence, there is no scope for confrontation. The uncertainty is gone regarding the amount to be paid and the time frame within which the fees have to be cleared. I have received a few queries from parents who have requested me to interpret the order and provide them with suggestions,” said Ram Mohan Mission School principal Sujoy Biswas. Biswas added he has informed parents that the HC order instructs them to pay a minimum of 80% of the fees within August 15. But those who can afford to pay the full amount at present are supposed to do so within the stipulated date. “This relief has only been granted to parents who are unable to make the full payment,” he said. Nabarun De, the principal of Central Modern School in Baranagar, said, “We have received multiple queries from guardians and it seems that the parents have at last understood they will have to pay the school fees. The approach of the parents have thus changed. They are amicable and are requesting time to regularize the fees.” Fr Bikash Mondal, principal of Don Bosco School, Park Circus, pointed out that the school never had any issues regarding the payment of fees. “However, our guardians must be aware of the latest Calcutta High Court order. We are looking into the fees sympathetically for individual parents who are under duress and who have sought some time to pay the dues,” he said. Mondal will also send the compliance letter sought by the state school education department within Monday. “In my earlier letter, I had already mentioned that we are allowing all students to attend online classes and charging no late fees. In the 2020-2021 academic session, we have not increased any fees. I shall inform the same to the state,” he added. “We have received a few queries from guardians asking us about the method in which the dues will have to be cleared. We have informed them that, according to the order of the Calcutta High Court, they will have to abide by the decision. However, we have assured them that no student will be debarred from the online classes for non-payment of fees till August 15,” said the principal of St Augustine’s Day School, Kolkata, Richard Gasper. The Calcutta High Court order on Tuesday directed private, unaided schools not to bar students from either online classes or online examinations till August 15 and asked parents to clear 80% of the fees due till July 31 by the same deadline. The court also instructed the schools to take back students who had been removed from online classes for non-payment of fees during the lockdown months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/post-court-order-parents-reaching-out-to-schools-for-clarification-on-fee-payment/articleshow/77116426.cms||Somdatta Basu
July 23, 2020||Patna||Patna: NIA files another chargesheet in AK-47 theft case||PATNA: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday filed a fourth supplementary chargesheet before a special NIA court in Patna in the AK-47 assault rifle theft case from the Central Ordinance Depot (COD), Jabalpur. The chargesheet was filed against one Mohammad Mursheed, a resident of Munger district, under various provisions of the IPC, Arms Act and the UA(P) Act, said NIA sources. The case relates to the recovery of three AK-47 rifles on September 7, 2018, smuggled from the COD. The assault rifles were found hidden in the backyards of Rizwana Begum’s house at Wardha village under the Muffasil police station area. The rifles were recovered on the disclosure of Rizwana Begum and her brother and accused Shamsher Alam. These rifles were further smuggled across Bihar and sold to the Maoists and other criminals. The Munger police under the leadership of the then SP Babu Ram had busted the racket and registered a case against 26 accused and some unknown persons before the case was taken over by the NIA for further investigation. In fact, Ram and his team had recovered 22 AK-47 assault rifles amd more than 500 spare parts stolen from the COD. So far chargesheet has been filed against 13 persons including Rizwana Begum, Shamsher Alam, Mohammad Imran Alam, Niyazul Rahman, Mohammad Irfan Alam, armourer Purshottam Lal Rajak, Suresh Thakur, his wife Chandrawati Devi and son Shivendra Rajak, COD employee Suresh Thakur, Bajrang Shankar, Manoj Singh, Manzar Alam and Mohammad Mursheed. In fact, it was Alam, who was nabbed with three AK-47 assault riflas, magzines and spare parts, which he was carrying in a huge bag, near Jubli well under the Jamalpur police station area in Munger leading to busting of the racket. It may be mentioned here that a group of arms smugglers had conspired with certain employees of Central Ordinance Depot (COD) at Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh and stole more than 76 AK-47 assault rifles, spare parts and 13 Self-Loading Rifles (SLRs) from the sheds of COD between 2012-2018, an NIA official said. Apart from AK series assault rifles, arms smugglers with the connivance of Indian Army’s retired armourer Purshottam Lal Rajak and COD employee Suresh Thakur, had also smuggled out at least 13 SLRs during the same period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nia-files-another-chargesheet-in-ak-47-theft-case/articleshow/77115060.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: CBSE schools may reduce syllabus for classes 1 to 8||HYDERABAD: After Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) reduced syllabus for classes 9 to 12, school managements said they will snip syllabus for classes 1 to 8 by at least 30-50% . If schools fail to reopen by September, they would have no other option except to snip the syllabus, said the managements. As per the Union ministry of human resource development (MHRD) guidelines, schools cannot conduct online classes for more than 90 minutes for classes 1 to 8 students. “Although most CBSE schools started the new academic year in March, it will be difficult to complete the syllabus as the MHRD has capped maximum screen time for students. So, we will have to reduce the syllabus proportionately. It will be better if the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) takes up the exercise at least for classes 6 to 8 so that there will be uniformity in the syllabus,” Hyderabad Public School, Ramanthapur prinicapal and Hyderabad Sahodaya School Complex chairman D Narsimha Reddy. He said completing 70% of the syllabus should not be a problem for any school even with restricted timings. A few principals, however, said the percentage of the syllabus to be reduced would have to be based on the number of working days in the academic year. They said that a few unimportant topics or those which were already covered in earlier classes could be knocked off from the syllabus this year. However, they cautioned that schools would have to at least teach students briefly about those chapters, which will have a continuation in the higher classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cbse-schools-may-reduce-syllabus-for-classes-1-to-8/articleshow/77115971.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
July 23, 2020||Patna||Bihar govt only interested in contesting polls: Tejashwi Prasad Yadav||PATNA: Leader of opposition in the state assembly, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, visited the flood-hit north Bihar on Wednesday and distributed food among the victims. The younger Yadav scion also rapped chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar and the BJP for the flood situation as well as the death of MLC Sunil Kumar Singh due to Covid-19 on Tuesday. Tejashwi alleged that the government was only interested in contesting elections and had ignored the plight of the people. He also criticised the CM’s virtual rally scheduled for August 7 and said the latter had no time to visit the flood-affected areas. The RJD uploaded several photos and videos, in which Tejashwi was seen distributing cooked food. In another one, he was on a motor boat interacting with the people. “These people were hungry for the past three days. Even on humanitarian grounds, the government should have given them food and ration,” said the former deputy CM. Tejashwi also lashed out at the government over the death of the BJP MLC. He said, “We extend our condolences to Sunil ji’s family and pay tributes to him. We were not even aware that he was infected with Covid-19. All of a sudden we got to know about his demise. The situation in Bihar is worsening with each passing day. In fact, it has become dangerous. Look at the condition here. Now, ministers and legislators are also dying.” He also alleged that an RJD worker was shot by criminals on the premises of the Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital. “Look at the situation. Criminals enter the isolation ward and kill people, but no FIR is lodged and no one is arrested. A minor girl is also raped at the isolation ward of the PMCH. Still the government is busy preparing for elections and protecting its chair.” Visit to flood-hit village: Tejaswi Prasad Yadav visited the flood-affected Vakua village under Madhepur block of Madhubani district on Wednesday. He made a scathing attack on the NDA government and CM Nitish Kumar for being impervious to the grievances of the public. He said, “Sushasan Babu’s priorities do not include the Covid-19 pandemic and the floods, which are wreaking havoc on the lives of the common people in the state.” The former deputy CM was accompanied by Abdul Bari Siddiqui, Lalit Yadav, Alok Kumar Mehta, Faiyaz Ahmad, Umakant Yadav and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-govt-only-interested-in-contesting-polls-tejas/articleshow/77115041.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 23, 2020||Business||Bajaj Auto Q1 sales down by two-thirds||PUNE: The impact of Covid-19 has meant that sales at Bajaj Auto in the quarter ended June 2020 were just about a third of what it was in the year-ago quarter. The company managed to sell just above 4 lakh units of motorcycles and commercial vehicles compared to over 12 lakh units in the year-ago period. The net profit too fell 53% to Rs 528 crore, with the total revenue down 60% to Rs 3,079 crore. “The first quarter of FY21 has been an extremely challenging quarter due to the unprecedented Covid-19 pandemic. Lockdown and other containment/precautionary measures have resulted in disrupted supply lines and a sharp decline in overall demand,” the company said. The motorcycle maker’s exports fell by about 55% to 2.1 lakh units, while its sales in the domestic market fell 70% to 1.9 lakh units. The broader industry in the motorcycle segment suffered a setback of 73% in sales in the April-June period. “Impact of this pandemic was experienced in India and in countries across the globe that we export to. While we have restarted operations, sporadic localised lockdowns are disrupting the supply chain and impacting the ability of the business to return towards normalcy,” the company added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bajaj-auto-q1-sales-down-by-two-thirds/articleshow/77115945.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Business||Demat gilts for new retail investors: Sebi||MUMBAI: Sebi chairman Ajay Tyagi on Wednesday proposed issuance of government securities (G-secs) in demat form, like equity shares. Then the new breed of investors coming through the stock market can be directed towards investing in the less-risky G-secs. The Sebi chief also proposed merging of bond trading platforms for G-secs and corporate bonds with uniform rules to attract more investors — a step aimed at deepening the country’s bond market. Tyagi, who was speaking at industry trade body Ficci’s annual capital markets conference through a video link, also warned of a Covid-induced economic recession around the world. Since the lockdown started in late March, there has been a strong surge in opening demat accounts, especially with the low-cost discount brokerages. Recently, the Sebi chairman had said that the regulator was perplexed by this surge in retail activity in the stock market. Market players, however, say that a large number of first-time investors with hardly any experience of investing and trading in the stock market have been to some extent responsible for the surge in the benchmark indices. “With a view to facilitating a smooth and welcome entry of these newcomers to the capital markets, it would be ideal that they begin their journey by first investing in risk-free G-secs,” Tyagi said. Once they familiarise themselves with investing in G-secs, they could be helped to invest in other securities as well. “The issuance of G-secs in demat form, apart from easing the process of making investments by non-institutional participants in these securities, may also ease the government’s borrowing process,” he said. The top regulator also said that there was an inter-linkage between the corporate bond and the G-sec markets, one of the more important ones being the prices of corporate bonds are benchmarked to G-secs’ of comparative tenure. However, due to lack of depth in the Indian debt market, at times such benchmarking don’t work efficiently, especially during periods of uncertainty like the one seen currently. “The required reforms in the corporate bond market should be brought in without any further loss of time. Unification of financial markets is an idea whose time has come,” Tyagi said. He emphasised that the market infrastructure for corporate bonds and G-secs should be integrated. “Having two separate ecosystems results in artificial segmentation of investors, divergent governance and regulatory norms for institutions in the two markets performing similar functions. The market infrastructure institutions dealing with these two types of securities should follow the same rules and regulations. The economies of scope and scale also dictate such unification,” he said. The Sebi chief also highlighted the fact that the Indian financial market was passing through difficult, stressful and uncertain times. However, he said that the challenges have also brought in several opportunities. “The revival of the stock market and an uptick in fund-raising by the corporates is encouraging. I exhort the captains of the industry to come forward and make bold investment decisions, and contribute towards building an Atmanirbhar Bharat,” he said. The Sebi chief also assured India Inc that the markets regulator will continue to try to help the companies in these difficult times by announcing relaxations, but those will come with built-in safeguards to prevent misuse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/demat-gilts-for-new-retail-investors-sebi/articleshow/77115715.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Business||UPI apps enable auto pay feature||MUMBAI/BENGALURU: Users of Unified Payments Interface (UPI) can now use their mobile apps to set an e-mandate for recurring payments. This will increase the utility of the payments platform, which was hitherto used largely for instant payments. The feature was launched at the Global Fintech Festival 2020 by Nandnan Nilekani, the Aadhaar architect and co-founder of Infosys. Nilekani said that the next step in digitisation was the development of open credit enablement network, or OCEN, which will connect lenders to marketplaces, which in turn will finance their constituents. This will enable funding of hitherto excluded segments like small businesses and street vendors. “This essentially works as a common language between lenders and borrowers “ Nilekani said. Lenders like State Bank of India, HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, IDFC First Bank, Axis Bank and Bajaj Finserv have come on board for OCEN. Until now to set up standing instructions, customers needed to visit the branch and submit a form for an ECS or NACH mandate. “I believe this is a game-changer in digital payments. It opens up the market as the customer as a number of providers can now extend services to even those who have very small transaction amounts,” said NPCI MD & CEO Dilip Asbe. Besides utility and other bill payments, the service can be used by mutual funds to provide low-value SIPs or microfinance companies to collect their loans. The service will be available for almost every bank account holder in the country even if they do not use internet banking as long as they have a smartphone and a UPI-enabled app like Bhim, Paytm, Google Pay or PhonePe. Customers can set e-mandate on UPI platform to perform recurring payments of upto Rs 2,000, for amount above that, customers have to execute every mandate with UPI PIN. They will receive an SMS as well as an app notification before the debit takes place and the customer can prevent the debit anytime before it happens. Some of the lenders, merchants and aggregators who have already gone live with UPI auto pay are Axis Bank, Bank of Baroda, HDFC Bank, HSBC Bank, ICICI Bank, IDFC Bank, IndusInd Bank, Paytm Payments Bank, AutoPe-Delhi Metro, AutoPe-Dish TV, CAMS Pay, Furlenco, Growfitter, Policy Bazaar, Testbook.com, The Hindu, Times Prime, Paytm, PayU, RazorPay, among others. Jio Payments Bank, SBI and Yes Bank will soon go live with UPI auto pay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/upi-apps-enable-auto-pay-feature/articleshow/77116002.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Business||RBI panel pushes open-loop QR code||BENGALURU: An RBI committee on QR codes has recommended open-loop QR codes from payments service providers so they can be interoperable and lead to wider adoption of digital money. The central bank committee has also said it might consider phasing out closed-loop QR codes, where both payment receiver and sender need to be on the same app. “Proprietary, closed-loop QR codes are a hindrance to an open, interoperable payments ecosystem. There should be a clear plan to phase out proprietary, closed-loop QR codes in favour of open, interoperable standards,” the committee has said. It mentioned offline QR code usage can be permitted for low-value usage like transit tickets. This could be useful amid the pandemic when social distancing is being promoted. Interestingly, the committee is also of the view that there should be ‘controlled charge’ instead of zero merchant discount rate (MDR), something which industry players have also been asking for as they are bearing the costs. “The government should allow a lower controlled interchange instead of zero MDR on QR code/UPI (Unified Payments Interface)/RuPay debit card transactions, as well as offer tax incentives to merchants allowing electronic transactions and promoting incentive schemes to improve the popularity of QR code transactions in the country,” it added. Further, the committee stressed the need to promote and educate consumers on its usage along with strengthening security.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-panel-pushes-open-loop-qr-code/articleshow/77115905.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Patna||Petrol, diesel prices hiked again||PATNA: Petrol and diesel prices continued to rise through the week with the two auto fuels getting dearer by 15 paise per litre respectively in the state capital on Wednesday. With this price hike, petrol is being retailed at Rs 83.54 per litre and diesel at Rs 78.62 a litre, which is the highest in the month of July. It may be mentioned here that the oil marketing companies started raising petrol and diesel prices almost everyday from June 7 after 83 days break since March 16. Increasing fuel prices have further added to the woes of the transporters, middle-class and especially, auto drivers, who are already facing huge financial losses due to the ongoing lockdown. An auto-ickshaw driver Sandeep Kumar said, “Diesel price has increased by almost Rs 5 per litre in just one month. We are already struggling to get passengers amid this lockdown. Though prices of other essential commodities have also increased, we did not raise the auto fare,” he said. Bihar State Auto Chalak Sangh’s general secretary Raj Kumar Jha told this newspaper on Wednesday that only 50% auto drivers are plying their vehicles in the state. “They can only earn what they spent on purchase of petrol and diesel. We will hold a silent protest against the rising prices of fuel on August 3,” Jha added. Dak Bungalow road’s Bharat Petroleum outlet manager Ajay Kumar also expressed concern over the rising fuel prices and said after Unlock 1.0, prices of both petrol and diesel have shot up. “Prices of crude oil on Wednesday is the highest this year. However, sale of diesel has improved since June,” he said. Sources in other petro outlets of the city also said that sale of fuel is increasing but it is still 8 to 9 % lower than the average demand in normal times. Vijay Kumar, a sales executive in a petrol outlet at Gandhi Maidan said, “The number of customers has certainly decreased in comparison to pre-lockdown stage.” DM Diwakar of A N Sinha Institute for Social Studies said, “The state government has increased the taxes levied on fuels, including goods and services tax and VAT, leading to a rise in the prices. However, fuel prices in the international market is gradually decreasing, which now stands at $44 per barrel.” “Both the Centre and the state government have increased taxes in order to recover the losses incurred during the lockdown. But this will only lead to slowing down of the economy. The rising prices of fuel have started influencing prices of other commodities as well, while the demand for fuel is declining,” Diwakar said. Petrol and diesel prices Date Petrol (price in Rs) Diesel (price in Rs) July 22 83.54 78.62 July 21 83.39 78.47 July 20 83.31 78.40 July 19 83.40 78.32 July 18 83.28 78.01 July 17 83.07 77.81||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/petrol-diesel-prices-hiked-again/articleshow/77114505.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 23, 2020||Patna||Rise in cybercrime cases against women in corona times in Bihar: Economic Offences Unit||PATNA: In the times of corona when most people have switched to the virtual world for official work, studies and socializing, the state has registered a sudden spurt in cybercrime cases against women and girls. According to Economic Offences Unit’s (EOU) additional director general of police (ADG), Jitendra Singh Gangwar, the cybercrime portal has received as many as 494 complaints during the last six months. All these cases are related to blackmailing, stalking and online sexual harassment. “There are ‘cyber senanis’ to monitor such cases and create awareness among the people,” the ADG told this newspaper on Wednesday and added, “Since a sudden rise has been witnessed in cybercrimes during the lockdown, we have started WhatsApp groups and connected with 1.3 lakh people across the state.” The WhatsApp groups are being used to share messages for making people aware of different forms of cybercrime, the dos and don’ts, and various helpline numbers. EOU superintendent of police (SP) P K Das said, “On an average, nearly three-four cases of cybercrime against women are being registered every day. Altogether 30 such cases were reported in January, 45 in February, 65 in March, and 103 in April. A spurt in their number was seen after March 20.” Das asked people to remain cautious while using the internet and immediately lodge a complaint on www.cybercrime.gov.in if they are in trouble. Inspector (EOU) Gauri Kumari claimed, “We get cases related to morphed pictures of women, objectionable posts, fake accounts, stalking, hacked accounts, sextortion as well as child pornography. Since people are spending a lot of time on social networking sites, such cases are bound to rise.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/eou-rise-in-cybercrime-cases-against-women-in-corona-times/articleshow/77115093.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 23, 2020||Business||L&T Q1 net profit declines by 68%||MUMBAI: Profit at Larsen & Toubro (L&T), considered as the bellwether of the country’s infrastructure sector, declined 68% to Rs 537 crore during the first quarter of fiscal 2021 due to the nationwide lockdown induced by Covid-19 that halted manufacturing and construction activities and disrupted labour and supply-chain ecosystem. Profit in the year-ago period was Rs 1,698 crore. The company would have made a loss in Q1FY21 had it not been for a one-time gain of Rs 225 crore from the sale of its wealth management unit and deferred tax reversal of Rs 307 crore. Revenue fell 28% to Rs 21,260 crore. L&T lost about Rs 12,500 crore of revenue in Q1FY21 due to the lockdown, the management said in their earnings commentary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lt-q1-net-profit-declines-by-68/articleshow/77115932.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 20-year-old shoots mother for 'disrupting' his conversation with friends||PATNA: In a shocking incident, a youth allegedly shot at his mother after she had called him several times for dinner while he was busy chatting with friends. The incident took place at Sitapur village under the Maranchi police station area in rural Patna at around 10.30pm on Tuesday. The accused, identified as Angad Yadav (20), was arrested with a loaded country-made pistol on the wee hours of Wednesday. Police said one has to reach the village by vehicle via Begusarai after crossing the Rajendra Setu as it is on the opposite side of river Ganga. Maranchi police station SHO Anil Kumar said the critically injured woman was identified as Manju Devi (55). “She was initially rushed to a private hospital in Begusarai. On Wednesday, she was referred to Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) for better treatment,” he said. The SHO said that Angad was continuously chatting with few of his friends outside his residence. “As it was getting very late in the night, Angad's mother asked him several times to come inside and have his dinner. However, he ignored his mother’s plea every time. As Manju Devi was about to step inside the main door after calling her son, Angad came from behind and shot her in head from very close range in a fit of rage for disrupting his conversation. She fell down on the spot. Her sister-in-law Indu Devi was an witness to the whole incident and police have lodged an FIR against Angad on the basis of Indu’s statement,” the SHO added. “Angad was arrested from the jungle area behind his residence. “He was about to open fire on police also at the time of arrest but his loaded pistol cocked,” the SHO said. Angad’s father Rambabu Yadav and his two elder brothers work as daily wagers in Punjab. “After arrest, Angad told police that he had purchased the firearm from Munger for Rs 7,500 six months back. He will be forwarded to jail after Covid-19 test on Thursday,” the SHO added. Watch Shocking! 20-year-old shoots mother for 'disrupting' his conversation with friends||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/youth-shoots-mother-after-she-repeatedly-called-him-for-dinner/articleshow/77115951.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 23, 2020||Business||Future missed payment of Rs 100 crore bond dues: S&P||MUMBAI: Rating agency Standard & Poor’s (S&P) has said that Future Retail has missed a Rs 100-crore ($14-million) repayment on its $500-million foreign currency bonds. The agency has warned that it could downgrade it to ‘D’ if it feels that the company is unlikely to repay in the 30-day grace period. Future Retail is currently rated ‘CCC-’, which is a speculative-grade rating. According to S&P, Future Retail may face increased liquidity pressure for the next month amid depressed operating cash flows and delays in disbursement of credit lines from banks. “The company failed to make a coupon payment of about $14 million for its $500-million senior secured notes, due on July 22, 2020. Technically, a payment default has not yet occurred under the indenture governing the notes, which provides a 30-day grace period,” said S&P in a note. The company has indicated that it expects to make the coupon payment within the grace period by improving operating cash flows through bank funding, or arranging for alternate sources of funding, including the sale of certain assets. It also expects its liquidity to improve with a potential equity recapitalisation, which could bring in a strategic investor. “However, our rating does not factor in such transactions due to limited clarity at this time. We could lower our preliminary rating on Future Retail to ‘D’ if we feel the company is unlikely to meet its commitment within this grace period. Even if Future Retail makes the coupon payment within the grace period, its weak liquidity will remain an overarching credit risk,” S&P said. It added that the current rating is preliminary because the cross-guarantees between Future Retail and its group company Future Enterprises have not been fully released, with about 20% still pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/future-missed-payment-of-rs-100cr-bond-dues-sp/articleshow/77115963.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Patna||Patna: Patient dies as hospitals ‘refuse’ treatment||PATNA: It is not only the Covid-19 patients, but others with serious diseases are finding it difficult to get admission at the hospitals on the assumption of their being positive for the virus. Subodh Kumar Verma (61), who superannuated just eight months back as chief ticket inspector in the railways, died on Wednesday evening after running from one hospital to another in the state capital. His eldest nephew Vikas Verma, who was accompanying him, said, “Had medical assistance been provided to him on time, my uncle would have been alive.” Subodh was first taken to the railways’ superspeciality hospital at Karbighaiya, where his appointment was fixed with the doctor. Family members said even though his four valves were blocked and his other reports were not satisfactory, Subodh was sent home, instead of being giving medical treatment. “His condition was critical, still the doctor told him to go back home,” Vikas said. When his condition deteriorated at home, he was rushed to a private hospital in Raja Bazar area. “We thought we will get all necessary medical help under one roof there. We were first made to run from one counter to another. Then we were taken to OPD. When we went inside, the doctor left his chamber. We then went to the emergency. The moment I told he was having breathlessness, the medical staff there denied treatment. This hospital claims to provide treatment to Covid-19 patient, but did not admit a patient who had a cardiac problem,” said Vikas, who then took his uncle to IGIMS. Even there, the family had to face a similar situation. “There also, we kept running from one counter to another for registration. We told them to give him oxygen at least, but the staff were rude and told us to go to NMCH. How could we take a patient with heart problem to a dedicated Covid hospital?” Vikas asked. The Verma family then went to the railway hospital in Danapur, where they alleged that not a single senior doctor was available. “My uncle got down from the car and sat on a wheelchair. However, his oxygen level kept dropping from 40 to 35 and then to 28. Even there, the staff were not getting him an oxygen cylinder. They somehow arranged one at 4:10pm and my uncle died at 4:38pm,” added Vikas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patient-dies-as-hospitals-refuse-treatment/articleshow/77115291.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 23, 2020||Patna||Many in Champaran take shelter on NH||MOTIHARI/BAGAHA: Gandak, Burhi Gandak, Bagmati, Lalbakeya and other rivers were in spate and flowing above the danger mark on Wednesday following torrential rain during the last three days in the foothills of Nepal and catchment area of East Champaran district. Though the water was receding at Valmikinagar barrage from highest 3.40 lakh cusecs to 2.64 lakh cusecs at 3pm on Wednesday, a large number of people in the low-lying areas of Semara-Labdeha, Manjharia, Balua-Thori, Sisahi, Lakshmipur Rampurwa, Chiurahi, Parsauna, Motipur Shrinagar, Salaha-Bariyarawa and Raibari-Mahuyawa panchayats under Bagaha subdivision in West Champaran were affected by the floods. Around 15,000 people were taking refuse at a safer ace or on Pipara-Piparasi and Champaran embankments. Swirling waters of hilly rivers like Tilawe, Sarisawa, Bangari and Dudhaura entered the low-lying areas in the bordering villages under Patahi, Dhaka, Chiraiya, Fenehara and Madhuban blocks. Road traffic was also disrupted between East Champaran and Sheohar as 4 feet of floodwaters were flowing on a stretch of 200 metres on the road near Dewapur. The Burhi Gandak was surging at several points across Sugauli, Ramgarhwa, Banjariya and Motihari blocks. The ring bund of Burhi Gandak was breached at Dhawahi and gushing waters inundated 17 villages of Sugauli block on Wednesday. The floodwaters entered Sugauli police station and Sugauli market areas as well. The Burhi Gandak also inundated 14 villages in Banjariya block near Motihari. The Banjariya block office was under knee-deep water and officials were shifted to an old building near Motihari. Relief and rescue operation has been started in the affected areas and community kitchen would start soon, said Anil Kumar, ADM (disaster management). DM Shirshat Kapil Ashok said the NDRF and SDRF teams were deployed. The old, children and pregnant women were being shifted to safer places by motorboats. The Gandak (Narayani) was rising fast in Paharpur, Areraj, Sangrampur and Kesariya and around 34 villages in the embankment areas were inundated. The floodwaters entered the houses and the villagers with their domestic animals were taking shelter at in schools and on NH28 near Dumariya Ghat bridge. The DM said community kitchens were being run for the displaced people. In Bagaha, the people by the floods of the Gandak and Masan rivers were facing food crisis. Bumper standing paddy and sugar cane crops were destroyed. Mahatam Mukhia, the husband of Lilawati Devi of Shrinagar panchayat, said the entire panchayat was deluged and around 3,000 families were shifted by countryboats to Patazirwa. No succour was provided by the administration so far, said Surendar Yadav of Motipur panchayat. Bhola Gupta, the mukhiya of Parsauna panchayat, distributed 500gm chura and 100gm jaggery to each affected person but it like a drop in the ocean. Bhuyeedharwa panchayat mukhiya Chandeshwar Singh did not even visit the affected Sekhpatti village, alleged Allauddin and Mumtaz Mian, who were taking shelter on the PP embankment. Manorma Devi of Semra Labdeha panchayat said gushing floodwaters through the gap of rail bund near Shripatinagar had affected 800 families but the government. Ganesh Mukhia and Moharam Mian said, “We have been rendered homeless by the devastating Gandak floods and facing starvation-like situation.” Bagaha-2 block circle inspector (revenue) said three community kitchens had been opened at Bherihari Colony middle school for Chakadahawab flood victims and two community kitchen for ward number 4 and 8 under Bagaha Nagar Parishad. Meanwhile, torrential rain during the last four consecutive days made life hellish in Bagaha Nagar parishad area as rainwater was flowing on the roads of ward number 5, 23, 28 and sub-divisional hospital. Even power station was waterlogged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-in-champaran-take-shelter-on-nh/articleshow/77115010.cms||Chandra Bhushan Pandey
July 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Unwell Olympian’s family waits for govt to fulfil its promise||Ludhiana: The family of a double gold winner in Special Olympics is struggling to make their both ends meet and bear the cost of treatment of the international cyclist of yesteryear, as the state government is yet to fulfil its promises made to the youth.Rajbir Singh, a mentally challenged youth from Siar village, who won two gold medals for the country in 2015 Special Olympics held in Los Angeles, has been struggling with neurological disorders after undergoing a major brain surgery in January early this year. He had to be operated upon as he had started having bouts of severe headache.The daily-wager father of the 20-year-old international cyclist lost all his earnings and savings during the lockdown and is now looking up to the authorities to provide them some help. Due to his poor financial condition, Rajbir's father is unable to bear the cost of his son’s treatment. Ever since the lockdown, Rajbir's father has been finding it hard to run the household, as he has not been able to go to the construction site where he worked, which could have earned him some money.Speaking to TOI, Rajbir's father said, “We have lost all our savings in the treatment of Rajbir. I am a daily-wager. I used to earn a meagre sum of Rs 400 to Rs 500 per day. But since lockdown, I have not been able to earn even that as most construction sites have suspended their projects owing to financial crises and lack of migrant labourers. In the last few months, all our savings got consumed in managing the household expenses and medical care of Rajbir. Now, we are struggling to make both ends meet." He pointed out that when Rajbir had won two gold medals in 1km and 2km cycling events at the Special Olympics meet, several government bodies had made tall claims to provide him a government job, but no one came forward later.“Soon after he won the Golds in 2015, the then state government had promised to give Rs 15 lakh to him. But even that never came," he said. A local NGO, Manukha Di Sewa, has provided the family some financial support since then. "Forget about the treatment, we may not be able to get our two square meals if the authorities do not come forward to help us," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/unwell-olympians-family-waits-for-govt-to-fulfil-its-promise/articleshow/77114779.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
July 23, 2020||Erode||Coronavirus cases cross 2500-mark in Salem district||SALEM: The number of Covid-19 cases has crossed 2500-mark in Salem district on Wednesday even as 99 cases were reported on the day. Of the 99 cases, 58 were from the Salem municipal corporation (SMC), nine from Magudanchavadi, five from Pethanaickenpalayam, four each from Veerapandi and Sankari, two each from Edappadi, Attur, Gangavalli, one each from Omalur, Nangavalli, Thalaivasal, Vazhapadi. Five people who had returned from Kallakurichi and three from Erode district and one person from Andhra Pradesh to the district also tested positive. While the total cases reached 2,560 on Wednesday, the number of people discharged from the hospital went up to 1, 697, including 91 people discharged from hospitals in the district on Wednesday. Following the spike in cases, health officials from SMC had started door-to-door checking of people for Covid symptoms from July 2. “Around 7.6 lakh people from 1.9 lakh houses were covered. During the drive, 2,330 people exhibited virus symptoms and of them 78 were tested positive till date,” corporation commissioner R Sadheesh said. Meanwhile, Krishnagiri district recorded all-time high of 69 cases in a single day on Wednesday. With this, the district reported a total of 520 cases. Of them, 243 were active cases found active. Namakkal district, which already had 354 cases, added 41 new cases on Wednesday. Erode district reported six new cases taking the total cases to 512 and total cases in Dharmapuri district increased by seven to 486 on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/coronavirus-cases-cross-2500-mark-in-salem-dist/articleshow/77124414.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Strict action against inciting cops on grade pay issue: DGP||Ahmedabad: Police personnel and officials in the state have been directed not to ‘express political views or be part of any anti-government movement on social media’, under the first ever code of conduct announced by the DGP’s office. The guidelines were issued after some cops took to social media over the issue of an increase in grade pay over the last fortnight.Addressing a press conference at his office in Gandhingar on Tuesday, DGP Shivanand Jha said that while the country is fighting Covid-19, some cops are inciting and misleading others over the grade pay issue.He said this would not be tolerated and those playing behind the curtain and at the front have been identified. Jha said with the current circumstances, such elements can be booked under the Incitement to Dissatisfaction Act, 1922, the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act. Jha added, “The people who are involved in this are being minutely observed and strict legal action will be taken against them.” He said that if any police personnel take part in this directly, support such activities or upload inciting messages on social media, they will face strict departmental and legal action. Jha said an offence has been lodged at Sector 7 police station against three Lok Rakshak Dal recruitment candidates, Kamlesh Solanki, Bhoja Bharwad and Hasmukh Saxena. “The accused conspired to incite candidates to go on strike and disturb the water distribution system through arson,” Jha said, adding that they have been held and will be presented in court after their Covid-19 tests.“This government his providing all types of facilities. They are being paid leave pay and get good quality of living facilities. They have been given insurance cover and the families of cops who lost their lives to Covid-19 have been given Rs 25 lakh as compensation. Recently, constables with more than five years experience have been given powers to investigate offences which have punishments of less than five years imprisonment. The government is committed to the welfare of constables,” Jha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/strict-action-against-inciting-cops-on-grade-pay-issue-dgp/articleshow/77095507.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Find out why kids are running away: Experts||AMARAVATI: Notwithstanding the laudable effort made by the police department under the Operation Muskan to rescue and test street children for Covid-19, experts are of the view that the root cause of the issue, as to why children are running away, must be resolved as not all who are running away are orphans. Although, labour department conducts raids to identify child labour in factories and business establishments, it is not looking into the issues of the street children. Academics believe that the failure of successive governments to create opportunity for children to study in their neighbourhood is one of the main reasons for kids running away. “With a majority of the parents being daily wagers or agriculture labourers, they have limited choices when it comes to managing the children. They can either send them to school or leave them at home. Since there are very few schools in urban slums and Dalit colonies in rural areas, many of the children left at home unsupervised run away,” said a child rights activist N Rammohan. Municipal Teachers’ Federation (MTF) state president S Ramakrishna observed that the responsibility of identifying street children and taking care of their educational needs should be handed over to one single government agency. “Everyone knows that thousands of children are sleeping on railway platforms and bus stands, but no department is engaged in bringing them back to schools,” rued Ramakrishna. According to available data, there are about 11,000 identified slums in towns and cities in the state. Surprisingly, nearly 6,000 of such slums do not have a school. “This is a serious issue to be looked into as it involves future of several thousands of children. Multiple departments could be roped in and tasked with different responsibilities to help them enrol in schools,” said retired ANU professor Dr LSN Prasad. He, however, said that some government agency should take care of the housing, clothing and shelter needs of such children if they do not want to go back to their parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/find-out-why-kids-are-running-away-experts/articleshow/77114765.cms||Samdani MN
July 23, 2020||Amaravati||Find out why kids are running away: Experts||AMARAVATI: Notwithstanding the laudable effort made by the police department under the Operation Muskan to rescue and test street children for Covid-19, experts are of the view that the root cause of the issue, as to why children are running away, must be resolved as not all who are running away are orphans. Although, labour department conducts raids to identify child labour in factories and business establishments, it is not looking into the issues of the street children. Academics believe that the failure of successive governments to create opportunity for children to study in their neighbourhood is one of the main reasons for kids running away. “With a majority of the parents being daily wagers or agriculture labourers, they have limited choices when it comes to managing the children. They can either send them to school or leave them at home. Since there are very few schools in urban slums and Dalit colonies in rural areas, many of the children left at home unsupervised run away,” said a child rights activist N Rammohan. Municipal Teachers’ Federation (MTF) state president S Ramakrishna observed that the responsibility of identifying street children and taking care of their educational needs should be handed over to one single government agency. “Everyone knows that thousands of children are sleeping on railway platforms and bus stands, but no department is engaged in bringing them back to schools,” rued Ramakrishna. According to available data, there are about 11,000 identified slums in towns and cities in the state. Surprisingly, nearly 6,000 of such slums do not have a school. “This is a serious issue to be looked into as it involves future of several thousands of children. Multiple departments could be roped in and tasked with different responsibilities to help them enrol in schools,” said retired ANU professor Dr LSN Prasad. He, however, said that some government agency should take care of the housing, clothing and shelter needs of such children if they do not want to go back to their parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/find-out-why-kids-are-running-away-experts/articleshow/77122640.cms||Samdani MN
July 23, 2020||Salem||Coronavirus cases cross 2500-mark in Salem district||SALEM: The number of Covid-19 cases has crossed 2500-mark in Salem district on Wednesday even as 99 cases were reported on the day. Of the 99 cases, 58 were from the Salem municipal corporation (SMC), nine from Magudanchavadi, five from Pethanaickenpalayam, four each from Veerapandi and Sankari, two each from Edappadi, Attur, Gangavalli, one each from Omalur, Nangavalli, Thalaivasal, Vazhapadi. Five people who had returned from Kallakurichi and three from Erode district and one person from Andhra Pradesh to the district also tested positive. While the total cases reached 2,560 on Wednesday, the number of people discharged from the hospital went up to 1, 697, including 91 people discharged from hospitals in the district on Wednesday. Following the spike in cases, health officials from SMC had started door-to-door checking of people for Covid symptoms from July 2. “Around 7.6 lakh people from 1.9 lakh houses were covered. During the drive, 2,330 people exhibited virus symptoms and of them 78 were tested positive till date,” corporation commissioner R Sadheesh said. Meanwhile, Krishnagiri district recorded all-time high of 69 cases in a single day on Wednesday. With this, the district reported a total of 520 cases. Of them, 243 were active cases found active. Namakkal district, which already had 354 cases, added 41 new cases on Wednesday. Erode district reported six new cases taking the total cases to 512 and total cases in Dharmapuri district increased by seven to 486 on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/coronavirus-cases-cross-2500-mark-in-salem-dist/articleshow/77116679.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Find out why kids are running away: Experts||AMARAVATI: Notwithstanding the laudable effort made by the police department under the Operation Muskan to rescue and test street children for Covid-19, experts are of the view that the root cause of the issue, as to why children are running away, must be resolved as not all who are running away are orphans. Although, labour department conducts raids to identify child labour in factories and business establishments, it is not looking into the issues of the street children. Academics believe that the failure of successive governments to create opportunity for children to study in their neighbourhood is one of the main reasons for kids running away. “With a majority of the parents being daily wagers or agriculture labourers, they have limited choices when it comes to managing the children. They can either send them to school or leave them at home. Since there are very few schools in urban slums and Dalit colonies in rural areas, many of the children left at home unsupervised run away,” said a child rights activist N Rammohan. Municipal Teachers’ Federation (MTF) state president S Ramakrishna observed that the responsibility of identifying street children and taking care of their educational needs should be handed over to one single government agency. “Everyone knows that thousands of children are sleeping on railway platforms and bus stands, but no department is engaged in bringing them back to schools,” rued Ramakrishna. According to available data, there are about 11,000 identified slums in towns and cities in the state. Surprisingly, nearly 6,000 of such slums do not have a school. “This is a serious issue to be looked into as it involves future of several thousands of children. Multiple departments could be roped in and tasked with different responsibilities to help them enrol in schools,” said retired ANU professor Dr LSN Prasad. He, however, said that some government agency should take care of the housing, clothing and shelter needs of such children if they do not want to go back to their parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/find-out-why-kids-are-running-away-experts/articleshow/77122638.cms||Samdani MN
July 23, 2020||Bareilly||Three booked for killing 24-year-old woman for dowry||Pilibhit: Police on Wednesday morning booked three persons of a family for killing a 24-year-old woman for dowry in Satarapur village under Barkhera police station. The woman had been married two years ago. Her dead body has been sent for autopsy. According to complainant Gauri Shankar, resident of Manpur village under Jahanabad police station, he had married his daughter Poonam to one Rajiv Kumar in Satarapur village and had given adequate dowry according to his financial condition. Despite this, his son-in-law and his parents started torturing Poonam for money and wanted that the revenue title of his agricultural land be transferred to their names. He made many efforts to improve the situation but in vain. Finally, on Tuesday, the trio strangled her to death and fled the house, the complainant alleged. Station house officer (SHO) of Barkhera police station Kamal Singh Yadav said that Rajiv Kumar, his father Krishna Gopal and mother Somwati were booked under sections 304 B (death of a woman is caused by any burns or bodily injury or occurred otherwise than under normal circumstances within seven years of her marriage), 498 A (subjecting a woman to cruelty by husband or his relatives) of the IPC and sections 3 and 4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-booked-for-killing-24-year-old-woman-for-dowry/articleshow/77112355.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Sloth bear scare in Kotagiri||Udhagamandalam: Residents of Jakkanarai and Aravenu villages near Kotagiri in the Nilgiris want the forest department to keep sloth bears away from the villages.Jakkanarai residents had spotted three bears, including two cubs, on Tuesday. “We informed the forest department, but no action has been taken to drive the animals back to the forest,” said a resident.Estate workers are especially vulnerable to attacks by bears during the day.Foresters and guards have been deputed in the villages to monitor movement of the bears, assistant conservator of forests Saravanakumar told TOI. “Both the villages have fruit trees including pears and berries that attract sloth bears,” he said. “We have warned residents not to venture out at night.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/sloth-bear-scare-in-kotagiri/articleshow/77116680.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Maoists torch two vehicles in Telangana's Cherla; panic among villagers||HYDERABAD: After a long lull, Maoists struck in north Telangana region bordering Chhattisgarh by setting ablaze a tractor and a road-roller in Cherla mandal in the late hours of Tuesday. The Maoists resorted to the brazen act even as the police were busy combing the forest area following reports of movement of some Maoist teams in the region. While torching of the vehicles triggered panic among villagers, senior police officials said the Maoists were resorting to arson to create fear among local contractors, businessmen and politicians to extort money. Police said the rebels fled into the forest area of neighbouring Chhattisgarh under the cover of darkness. The vehicles were parked on the side of an under-construction road between Tippapuram and Battinapalle villages, close to the Chhattisgarh border. At around 10 pm, a group of armed Maoists reached the spot and torched the vehicles using dry grass. Bhadradri assistant superintendent of police Rajesh Chandra said the huts of the villagers are within the vicinity of the parked vehicles. “They were scared and could not seek any help,” the assistant SP said. Bhadradri Kothagudem SP Sunil Dutt said the road laying work was taken up as part of providing better infrastructure to villagers in the Agency area. “The Maoists created panic among poor villagers who ran out of the huts in the night. We appeal to Maoists to stop disrupting developmental works,” he said. In the last two months, Bhadradri division police seized Rs 16 lakh from contractors at Dummugudem and Venkatapuram areas when they were carrying the cash to give it to Maoists. Meanwhile, Cherla CI T Satyanarayana said a case of arson was registered based on the complaint of road contractor Rambabu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/maoists-torch-two-vehicles-in-cherla-panic-among-villagers/articleshow/77115999.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Dist caseload reaches 2,050 as record 104 test positive||TNNLudhiana: The district reached the grim milestone of 2,050 cases on Wednesday, when 104 patients tested positive for Covid-19. It is the biggest single-day surge so far. Besides, 10 outsiders were also confirmed to have contracted the virus. A day before, an elderly man from Jagraon died of Covid-19. Health department officials said the 70-year-old resident of Jagraon, who besides being Covid-19 positive was suffering from a heart disease as well, died at the local civil hospital. With this, the district toll tally has reached 50, while 34 from outside have succumbed to the virus here to date. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga said out of the pending reports, 78 samples tested positive, of which 77 were from the district and one was from Tarn Taran district. The health department said of the positive cases in the district, seven were from Chhoti Haibowal, six each from Khanna and Tajpur Road, four from Jagraon, two each from Jamalpur, Raikot, Bhamiyan Road, Ram Nagar, Payal, Tajganj Mohalla, Sham Nagar and Rajguru Nagar, one each from Jugiana, Jammu Colony, New Kartar Nagar, Shar Nagar, Upkar Nagar, Jandiali, Mahajan Nagar, Model Gram, Gurpal Nagar, Dugri, Moti Nagar, Giaspura, Shimlapuri, GTB Nagar, Preet Vihar, Goslan, Rajiv Nagar, Rishi Nagar, Machhiwara, Tibba Road, Lohara, Mundia Kalan, Daba, Jain Colony, Guru Amardas Nagar, Agar Nagar, Abdullapur Basti, Ambedkar Nagar, Focal Point, Asi Kalan, Uttam Nagar, Sherpur Nagar, Malaud, Salem Tabri, Haibowal, Central Green Pakhowal Road, Rajguru Nagar, Model Town and Model Town Extension. It added that apart from these, 36 positive cases were reported from private hospitals and laboratories, of which 27 belonged to the district and two were from Barnala, one each from Fatehgarh Sahib, Moga, Ferozepur, Sangrur, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh. The civil surgeon said of the positive cases from the district, three each were from Basti Jodhewal, Dugri and Mullanpur, two each from Haibowal, Gobind Nagar and Rajguru Nagar, one each from Tharike, Jhammat, Kailash Chowk, Rishi Nagar, Madhopuri, Kitchlu Nagar, Payal, Janta Nagar, Hambran, Sector 39 on Chandigarh Road, Gandhi Nagar and Jagraon. Health department officials said the total number of corona positive cases in the district has increased to 2,050, while outsiders’ count was 334.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dist-caseload-reaches-2050-as-record-104-test-positive/articleshow/77114793.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Bareilly||Body of 17-year-old boy found in well||Pilibhit: Police on Wednesday morning recovered the body of a 17-year-old boy from a well in Chhoti Jiraunia village under Jiraunia police outpost of Barkhera police station. The boy was missing from the village since July 15. The father of deceased has leveled allegations of his son's murder on three villagers. Police have sent the body for an autopsy. An FIR in the matter has been registered. According to the complainant Bhoop Ram, his son Mool Chand was taken to Pilibhit city, by a youth of his village named Naresh, on his bike on July 15. Naresh returned after a few hours but not his son. On being asked about the whereabouts of his son, Naresh told him that he had left his bike at a short distance from the village while coming back. Despite intensively searching for him, when the family members failed to trace Mool Chand, his parents informed Barkhera police station that he was missing. Superintendent of police (SP) Jai Prakash Yadav said that the police on July 21 had converted the missing person case to a kidnapping case under section 363 of IPC, following a fresh complaint filed by Bhoop Ram. According to police sources, the body had decomposed and the mouth of the deceased had been stuffed with cloth and his hands were tied with a rope. Station house officer (SHO) Kamal Singh Yadav said that the police had added section 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) of IPC to the FIR lodged on July 21. Among three suspects, one has been taken into police custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/body-of-17-year-old-boy-found-in-well/articleshow/77112375.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Allahabad||No orders for idols, artisans sit idle in peak season||PRAYAGRAJ: Kolkata-based artisans, who sculpt idols of Hindu deities ahead of Ganesh Chaturthi, Vishwakarma Puja and Durga Puja, are without work and wages this year. Since preparations for Ganesh Utsav, Vishwakarma Jayanti and Durga Puja usually begin at this time of the year, these artisans used to be busy moulding clay into figurines, and embellishing them with brush and colours in hand. But this year, the atmosphere in their workshops near Bhardwaj Ashram road is gloomy. Tapas Pal, whose three generations have been in the trade of sculpting, told TOI on Wednesday, “The corona pandemic has hit us also. We have been witnessing the worst situation ever this year since the lockdown.” “We usually start getting Ganesh Chaturthi and Durga Puja orders from February-end and start purchasing raw material like clay, stacks of bamboo poles, wood, dry grass, hay, ornaments, clothes and decorative items for the idols by March. This year we have not received any major order for big idols,” he added. “This year, people are asking for small idols of Lord Ganesha for their homes during Ganesh festival. Most of the artisans left for their native village in West Bengal after lockdown and do not have a reason to return,” Tapas claimed. “This is the peak season for us artisans as most Hindu festivals begin after mid- July. We used to get orders for around 100 Lord Ganesha big idols, but this year orders are few and that too for small idols. Local puja committees have also not placed any orders for idols till now due to the Corona crisis as they don’t know whether administration would allow puja celebrations or not,” he added. Another artisan Manas said, “I have received few orders so far, but the customers are not interested in big idols. This year, we too are facing a major dent in our income. Last year, we earned a handsome amount this month.” The government should offer some economic assistance to idol makers also, he added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/no-orders-for-idols-artisans-sit-idle-in-peak-season/articleshow/77116392.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu govt corrects data, adds 444 deaths to Chennai Covid toll||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday added 444 deaths to the city’s Covid-19 toll based on a report submitted by a committee set up to reconcile the differing counts of fatalities by the state health department and the Greater Chennai Corporation highlighted by TOI in a series of reports. With this, the total number of Covid-19 deaths in the city as of Wednesday is 1,939 and the mortality rate has increased from 1.4% to 1.6 %. Health Secretary J Radhakrishnan said the government’s intention is to be completely transparent and the reconciliation committee had made its recommendations based on Central government and international guidelines. Radhakrishnan also said that from now on, reconciliation will be done every week and will be reviewed by the Director of Medical Services (DMS). TOI reported on June 10 that 236 Covid-19 deaths in Chennai recorded by the Greater Chennai Corporation had not been counted by the health department. A day earlier, ToI had reported that at least 20 Covid-19 deaths logged by the Railway hospital in Perambur were not reported to the state nodal office for Covid-19. Subsequently, the state constituted a 11-member expert committee headed by the Director of Public Health, Dr P Vadivelan, to “analyse and streamline the Covid-19 death reports with regard to Chennai Corporation”. On July 15, TOI reported that another 290 recorded by the Greater Chennai Corporation had not been included in the state’s official Ovid-19 toll. This meant that more than 500 deaths hadn’t made it to the state’s Covid toll. The reconciliation committee, after poring through burial ground data and the records of 102 hospitals in the city limits, recommended that 444 of these deaths (since March 1) could be attributed to Covid-19 as per ICMR guidelines. The health secretary said such instances are not unique to Tamil Nadu and cited the examples of Maharashtra and Delhi, where deaths were included in the Covid-19 registry based on recommendations by a reconciliation committee. The doctors did not hide anything and the deaths were recorded as non-Covid as the underlying cause of death was acomorbidity or other terminal illnesses, he said. “We are adhering to international guidelines and our intention is to be completely transparent,” Radhakrishnan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/state-corrects-data-adds-444-deaths-to-chennai-covid-toll/articleshow/77116682.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Dehradun||Mussoorie locals hope proposed tunnel project gives relief from traffic jams||Dehradun/Mussoorie: In a bid to reduce the traffic volume on Mussoorie city roads, the Union ministry of highways and road transport last week gave its in-principle approval for construction of a 2.74-kilometre-long tunnel to be built in the hill town. While locals in Mussoorie are hoping that the tunnel would serve as a long-term solution to the problem caused due to traffic jams at Gandhi Chowk, concerns are also being raised on the impact that the tunelling process would cause on the ecologically-fragile hill town. The tunnel would start from Cart Mckenzie Road and culminate at the Kempty Fall Road. It is proposed to be built at a cost of Rs 450 crore. Besides, Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari also gave in-principle nod for five other projects of building an elevated road and broadening stretches in Uttarakhand which are expected to cost Rs 3,675 crore. “Gandhi Chowk road witnesses frequent traffic snarls. This problem has persisted for a decade now. The tunnel would ensure that the vehicles going towards Kempty Fall, Gangotri, Yamunotri, Jaunpur and Uttarkashi do not have to pass through Gandhi Chowk and hence, a lot of unnecessary traffic would be avoided,” remarked Rajat Aggarwal, president of Mussoorie Traders’ Association. Residents feel that reduced traffic congestions would also promote tourism. “Over the past few years, long queues of vehicles at Gandhi Chowk have been a dampener for tourism. Construction of a tunnel could reduce traffic jams and hence aid in improving tourism,” believes Ashish Goyal, a hotelier. Earlier, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat called the Centre’s in-principle approval to the project a major achievement to end the traffic woes of Mussoorie. “Mussoorie witnesses long traffic jams and this Rs 450 crore project will vastly solve the issue,” he said. The five other projects, which have received an in-principle approval, are an elevated 7.5-kilometre-long by-pass route worth Rs 750 crore at Srinagar, two-laning of Kotdwar-Srinagar route at a cost of Rs 850 crore, two-way lane on Badkot-Balawala route of 96-km for Rs 775 crore, 208-kilometre-long lane from Rameshwar to Almora worth Rs 750 crore, and 64- kilometre-long stretch on Pandwakhal-Gairsain-Bhararisain route worth Rs 390 crore. In March last year, CM Rawat had laid the foundation stone for the Dehradun-Mussoorie ropeway project, which aims to save time for tourists commuting between the two key tourist locations. The project worth Rs 300 crore is expected to be completed within a three year time span. According to the state government, it would be among the five biggest ropeway projects of the world. The ropeway is being built in a PPP (public-private partnership) mode and a French company would provide technical assistance for the ambitious project. During the peak tourist season, it takes around three-to-five hours for visitors to reach Mussoorie from Dehradun due to long traffic jams and holdovers. Landslides during monsoon also creates a hurdle in the smooth flow of traffic on the busy route. However, after the completion of the project, it will take barely 10-to-12 minutes for a person to reach Mussoorie from Purukul village of Dehradun. However, concerned residents demanded that a proper environmental impact assessment should be done before starting the tunnel construction work. “Mussoorie is located in seismic zone IV and it has developed beyond its carrying capacity. Given this, making a tunnel here will be suicidal. Also, it may have catastrophic impact on Kempty Fall. Instead, removing encroachments, broadening some narrow patches, and improving alignment of the road can improve traffic situation to a great extent,” said Reenu Paul, Doon-based activist (With inputs by Shivani Azad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mussoorie-locals-hope-proposed-tunnel-project-gives-relief-from-traffic-jams/articleshow/77114819.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 23, 2020||Ludhiana||No restrictions on export of medical grade garments||Ludhiana: Here is some good news for medical grade garment manufacturers. The Centre has excluded surgical drapes, isolation aprons, surgical wraps and x-ray gowns from the list of items restricted from exports. A notification has been issued by the directorate general of foreign trade (DGFT), stating that from July 21 these four items have been removed from the restricted list. However, medical and surgical masks, medical goggles, medical nitrile gloves and face shields will remain in the prohibited exports category. The manufacturers of exempted items are a happy lot, but the PPE suit makers are now demanding that the government also permit them to export their products without restrictions. PPE suit exports are subject to quota system.Welcoming the development, Adish Gupta, a manufacturer of surgical aprons from Sunder Nagar, said, “This is a ray of hope for manufacturers like us, as export of all these items was banned some time ago due to fear of shortage in India in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak. Allowing export will boost our business, as local demand for these products was affected by the entry of new players. At present, there is a huge demand for aprons, drapes and gowns in global markets and Indian products have low rates and good quality.”Namit Kapoor, a gown manufacturer, said he was thankful to the government as opening the export would not only benefit the manufacturers but also give the country foreign exchange. “Moreover, due to the pandemic, the local demand had become high initially, but then took a hit as markets were flooded with the products. So, export is the only option to survive,” he added.Demanding lifting of restrictions from export of PPE suits, Vinod Thapar, chairman of Knitwear Club, said, “We are not against the government allowing the unrestricted export of surgical drapes, isolation aprons, surgical wraps and x-ray gowns. But the government must treat PPE suit manufacturers on a par and lift restrictions and lengthy procedures for filing application for export quota.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-restrictions-on-export-of-medical-grade-garments/articleshow/77114800.cms||Mohit Behl
July 23, 2020||Ludhiana||MC resorts to notices as rundown buildings risk lives in monsoon||Ludhiana: During rainy season, rickety buildings groaning on their foundations become a headache for the civic body. The municipal corporation has served notices on the owners of 96 such shaky structures to raze them on their own.The city landscape is dotted with such buildings, parts of which keep collapsing throughout the year. However, officials say these buildings evade dismantling due to the ongoing tussle between the owners and the tenants.Notices have been served in every zone. Most of the unsafe buildings are located in Zone A. As many as 45 such buildings have been identified here and their owners have been issued notices. Zones B, C and D have 13, 13 and 25 such structures respectively. Most of the unsafe buildings are located in the old areas of the city, including Chaura Bazaar, Chauri Sadak, Jawahar Nagar Camp, Daresi, Gill Road, Field Ganj, Narriyan Mohalla, Jawaddi, Model Town Extension, Islam Ganj, Moti Nagar, Amarpura and Tajpur Road, among others.MC assistant town planner Mohan Singh said, “We can only serve notices on owners for demolishing unsafe structures as during rainy season, chances of such buildings collapsing increase.” At times, he said, owners dismantle the structures but sometimes there are ongoing court cases or disputes due to which the buildings cannot be dismantled.“So far, we have issued notices to owners of 96 unsafe structures,” he added.Manoj Sharma, a resident of Field Ganj, said recently, a building was washed away during heavy rainfall in Delhi. Comparing the situation with the city, he said there are many such structures here as well. He urged the authorities to either dismantle or repair unsafe structures instead of serving notices.A resident of Gill Road, K S Juneja, said, “In case any unsafe building collapses during rainfall, it can lead to a major tragedy as adjoining buildings can also get damaged. Unsafe structures should be removed by the civic body.”Public noticeWhile issuing a public notice, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal has asked the owners of unsafe buildings to raze those. “During monsoon, such structures are at a higher risk. In case any such building collapses, its owner will be held responsible.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-resorts-to-notices-as-rundown-buildings-risk-lives-in-monsoon/articleshow/77114812.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Tourist vehicles’ owners seek help||ed:sajuCoimbatore: Owners of tourist vehicles staged a symbolic protest on Wednesday demanding a six-month extension of vehicle fitness certificate (FC) and insurance, and financial assistance to drivers.As many as 12,000 vehicle owners in the district participated in the protest, said representatives of the All India Tourist Vehicle Drivers Welfare Association.The business has been hit since the lockdown, joint secretary of the association C P Balaji said. “Initially, we were given a six-month extension for getting insurance and fitness certificate. The situation has not improved as there is absolutely no movement of tourists. We are unable to shell out money for FC and insurance. We seek an extension of six more months,” he said.The state government should give drivers an assistance fund of Rs 5,000 per month, Balaji said. “Owners have no income now and are unable to pay drivers.”The association representatives have submitted a petition to regional transport offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tourist-vehicles-owners-seek-help/articleshow/77116686.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Coimbatore||4 men die after truck rams bike in Dharmapuri||Dharamapuri: Four men died after a truck rammed a bike near Thoppur in Dharmapuri district in the early hours of Wednesday. After hitting the bike, the truck overturned killing both driver and cleaner in the impact.Police identified the deceased as truck driver J Selvam, 30, of Sangiliyandapuram in Trichy district, cleaner K Thangaraj, 55, of Vazhapadi in Salem district, two bike riders K Chinnavan, 55, and M Ariya Goundar, 53, of Purikkal in Dharmapuri district. The truck was heading to Trichy carrying iron girders. “The incident happened around 2am near the Thoppur ghat section on Salem-Bengaluru national highway. The driver lost control of the truck and hit the bike from behind. Then the truck hit the median and fell on its side,” a police officer attached with the Thoppur police station said. Before police could reach the spot, all the four had died. Police sent the bodies to the Dharmapuri Government Medical College and Hospital for postmortem.Vehicular traffic was halted on the road for two hours to clear the accident spot. Police registered a case. Further inquiry is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/4-men-die-after-truck-rams-bike-in-dharmapuri/articleshow/77116684.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Lucknow||ED seeks property, investment details of Vikas Dubey’s financier Jai Bajpai||LUCKNOW: Enforcement Directorate (ED) has sought details of investments and properties of slain gangster Vikas Dubey’s financier Jai Bajpai from Kanpur police, who interrogated the don’s moneybags after his arrest on Monday ED specifically asked police to provide details of offshore investments and foreign trips of Dubey and Bajpai along with bank details of friends and relatives. A unit of the economic intelligence agency is assisting the Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe into the ill-gotten wealth accumulated by Dubey’s gang since 1990. Sources said, all transactions and sources of money flow would be scrutinized and no separate probe is needed. ED sources also revealed that land records from tehsildar office of Bilhaur and district collectorate were being sought to look into land grab allegations. On July 6, ED first wrote to Inspector General of Kanpur Range, Mohit Agarwal, and sought details from district police on the gangster and his aides. On July 11, a three-member SIT was formed to probe into Dubey’s crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ed-seeks-property-investment-details-of-dubeys-financier-jai-bajpai/articleshow/77116983.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Dehradun||Death toll in landslide rises to 10||Pithoragarh: Three more bodies were recovered by the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and ITBP personnel from Tanga Munyal village in Munsyari on Wednesday, taking the death toll in the recent landslide to 10. Four bodies were recovered on Tuesday. "SDRF, NDRF and ITBP have been involved in the rescue and relief operations in Tanga and Gaila, and they recovered the three bodies from under the debris on Wednesday," said Pithoragarh district magistrate (DM) Vijay Kumar Jogdende. "The deceased have been identified as Tulsi Devi, 65, Divyanshu, 12, and Latika, 10. Four people are still missing. The rescue operation will continue on Thursday," he added. Heavy rain and landslides have caused extensive damage in Munsyari Tehsil, especially the Bangapani area, on Sunday night. Gaila and Tanga Munyal villages were badly affected. Several connecting roads to the villages were damaged making it diffcult for rescue effort. Some of these villages became inaccessible. In Gaila village, two houses collapsed and three people were left buried under the rubble. Their bodies were later found on Monday. In Tanga village, five houses collapsed and 11 people went missing. Four bodies were recovered on Tuesday. People also shifted to safer places and were provided with food ration, according to the DM. "More than 12 roads are still blocked in the district. The Thal-Munsyari Road was cleared for light vehicles on Wednesday. The road has been blocked since Monday. However, the Munsyari-Jauljibi Road remains blocked," the office for disaster management stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/death-toll-in-landslide-rises-to-10/articleshow/77114839.cms||Prem Punetha
July 23, 2020||Vadodara||Two dupe man of Rs 1 lakh for a used car||Vadodara: A resident of Sarar village in Vadodara taluka was cheated of nearly Rs 1 lakh by by two persons who assured him of selling a used car. Complainant Mahesh Parmar, who works in an engineering company in Por, told the police that in February he liked a deal on an online selling platform of a hatchback car registered in Vadodara which was being sold for just Rs 85,000. He contacted on the phone number provded in the post. A man identified as Anand asked Parmar to send him a photo of his identity card along with a photo and Rs 5,500 as booking fees. After Parmar transferred the money through a payment application, he was asked to transfer some more money. Within two days Anand and his accomplice, Vishal Topte, made Parmar transfer Rs 94,000 in different amounts all in the name of no-objection certificate, insurance charges and delivery charges. When Anand kept demanding more money, Parmar became suspicious and asked him to cancel the deal for which Anand asked him to pay Rs 1,150 as cancellation charges. When Parmar called him up to get his refund, Anand did not answer the calls which made Parmar realize that he had been cheated. “The complainant had approached us after the crime. Based on the details available from the bank account to which the money was transferred and the payment applications, we have got more details about the owner of the numbers and their call detail records,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-dupe-man-of-rs-1-lakh-for-a-used-car/articleshow/77114674.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Dehradun||Everest House to be open for tourists by year end||Mussoorie: Park Estate, the erstwhile house of Sir George Everest that has been in ruins for years, will be renovated as a museum and opened for tourists by the year end. “The renovation was affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic but work on the house, outhouse and observatory has resumed. The 1.5 km-long road leading to the building has already been refurbished. The construction is expected to be over by October,” said Kuldeep Sharma, an engineer working at the site. The tourism department had started restoration of the building with the support of Asian Development Bank (ADB). The project has an outlay of Rs 23.71 crore. “We faced some bumps in the road because of COVID-19. However, the site should open for tourism by the year-end or early next year,” said RK Tiwari, additional director of ADB programme in the tourism department. Historian Gopal Bhardwaj said that the museum, at around 7kms from Mussoorie, would be a great attraction for tourists as it will showcase the history of the district as well as that of the Trigonometric Survey project in India in early 1800s. Everest, after whom Mount Everest is named, owned the Mussoorie house and observatory from 1832 to 1843. Everst also served as the surveyor general of India and measured the Great Meridional Arc from Kanyakumari to the Himalayas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/everest-house-to-be-open-for-tourists-by-year-end/articleshow/77114882.cms||Anmol Jain
July 23, 2020||Salem||Mother, son commit suicide after a fight||Erode: A 70-year-old woman committed suicide near Perundurai in Erode district on Tuesday night after a fight with her inebriated son. The son when he realized what his mother had done ended his life on early Wednesday morning. Police identified the deceased as C Rukmani of Kandipalayam near Perundurai and her son C Muthusamy, 40. “Muthusamy was unmarried and often consumed alcohol and quarrelled with his mom. Around 9pm on Tuesday, after one such fight, Rukmani committed suicide by hanging in the house,” M K Saravanan, inspector attached with the Perundurai police station, said. “After becoming sober, Muthusamy jumped into a nearby well and died. Since the well was empty, he died of head injuries,” the inspector added. After being alerted by neighbours, the police reached the spot and initiated an inquiry. Police said the quarrel before the incident was serious and Rukmani might have been upset over it. Police did not find any suicide note in the house. Police sent the bodies to the government hospital in Perundurai for postmortem. A case was registered and further inquiries are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/mother-son-commit-suicide-after-a-fight/articleshow/77116689.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Lucknow||Rope in private medical colleges for Covid duty in Kanpur: CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: A day after Kanpur reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state at 230, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said that private hospitals in the city should also be roped in for Covid-19 duty. The CM has asked additional chief secretary (medical education) Rajneesh Dube to visit Kanpur to assess the situation of medical colleges in the city. Kanpur has registered 142 Covid-19 deaths so far which is the highest in any district of the state. On Wednesday, 132 fresh cases and four deaths were reported from the city. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said, “The CM has asked Dube to visit Kanpur and review arrangements to check the spread of coronavirus. He will also assess arrangements in medical colleges and recommend the roadmap for battle against Covid-19. The CM has directed that private medical colleges and hospitals should be used for Covid care.” Meanwhile, after the state allowed home quarantine for asymptomatic patients, the CM said that L3 Covid hospitals providing highest level of care to critical patients should only admit serious cases to ensure availability of beds. Yogi said in L2 hospitals, which are a rung lower, some beds should be provided with oxygen while arrangement for ventilators should be made for others. The CM has stressed on the use of plasma therapy for critical patients. Yogi has also directed for strict monitoring in containment zones in cities like Lucknow and Kanpur. “The CM has asked officials to intensify survey and surveillance and increase rapid antigen testing. Contact tracing is also being strengthened and we have doubled the number of contact tracing teams in Lucknow,” Awasthi said. Along with teachers who were carrying out this exercise so far, the government will now also appoint health personnel for this work. All district magistrates and chief medical officers have been asked to hold meetings with the office-bearers of the Indian Medical Association and the nursing association to strengthen medical facilities in their respective districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-asks-officials-to-rope-in-pvt-medical-colleges-for-covid-duty-in-kanpur/articleshow/77116968.cms||Neha Lalchandani
July 23, 2020||Rajkot||Two highway robbers arrested in Anjar||RAJKOT: Two highway robbers were arrested during a vehicle checking drive at a checkpost in Anjar of Kutch district on Tuesday night. Police said during the checking of the motorcycle of the accused, they found a blood stained knife from the possession of Sabir Hussein Sheikh (24) and Mustaq Meer (20), both residents of Bhuj. “During their interrogation, the accused confessed to having robbed a truck driver at a toll booth in Gandhidham. They had waylaid the victim, Ajay Pandey (34), on their bike, and stabbed him, while he was walking towards his home before robbing him of Rs 10,000 cash and one cellphone,” said A J Solanki, inspector with Anjar police station. After the crime, Pandey lodged a complaint with Gandhidham A division police station. “We contacted our counterparts in Gandhidham A division police station and told them about the arrest of the accused. We handed over the custody of the accused to the officials of Gandhidham A division police station,” added Solanki.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-highway-robbers-arrested-in-anjar/articleshow/77114764.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Aurangabad||6,497 recovered, 99 fresh cases added to Covid list||Aurangabad: As many as 6,497 Covid-19 patients have recovered from the contagion in the district while 4,860 are still undergoing treatment at various hospitals in Aurangabad district. The district has recorded 408 deaths so far, including four reported on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the district on Wednesday recorded 99 fresh cases, including 56 from the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation limits and seven who were found at the city’s entry points. The rural areas of the district reported 36 fresh Covid cases. The district has so far registered 11,765 Covid-19 cases. According to officials concerned, a 78-year-old patient from Tilaknagar of Kannad taluka died at a private hospital while undergoing treatment. In addition, three patients succumbed to the infection at a dedicated Covid-19 treatment centre set up at the government medical college and hospital on Wednesday. These deceased patients include two men — a 42-year-old man from Ramnagar and a 65-year-old man from Shivneri Colony. The hospital also reported the death of a 55-year-old woman from a locality near Qasam Burry Dargah premises in the Padegaon area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/6497-recovered-99-fresh-cases-added-to-covid-list/articleshow/77116031.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Dehradun||SSB stops ‘drunk’ Nepalese citizens fromplanting saplings along Indo-Nepal border||Pithoragarh: The Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) prevented a few Nepalese citizens from trying to plant saplings at Tanakpur in Champawat district along the Indo-Nepal border on Wednesday. "The Nepalese citizens - some of them reportedly drunk - reached Baramdev near Tanakpur and tried to barricade the area near 'pillar 811' on Wednesday afternoon and started planting the saplings," said VC Pant, the Tanakpur CO.  "On hearing the news, SSB personnel reached the spot and convinced them to return. Members of the Armed Police Force (APF) of Nepal also reached and stopped their citizens from barricading the area," Pant added. "Any kind of construction work or plantation activity is not permitted here, but a few people from across the border tried to plant saplings in the area which was stopped by the SSB. In fact, the 'pillar 811' has gone missing from the spot," said SN Pandey, the Champawat DM. "A meeting will be held between the SSB and the APF on Thursday to discuss the matter," Pandey added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ssb-stops-drunk-nepalese-citizens-fromplanting-saplings-along-indo-nepal-border/articleshow/77114904.cms||Prem Punetha
July 23, 2020||Chennai||Can’t sit on advice to release Rajiv Gandhi case convicts: Madras high court to governor||CHENNAI: As governor Banwarilal Purohit is yet to act on a state cabinet recommendation to release all seven life convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, the Madras high court has said a constitutional authority cannot sit over the recommendation indefinitely. The state’s recommendation was made in September 2018. A division bench on Wednesday also said if a decision is not made (by the governor) within a reasonable time, the court would be constrained to intervene in the matter. “No time limit is prescribed for such authorities to decide on such issues only because of the faith and trust attached to the constitutional post,” a division bench of Justice N Kirubakaran and Justice V M Velumani said on Wednesday. The bench made the observations while hearing a habeas corpus plea moved by T Arputhammal, mother of life convict A G Perarivalan. She wanted the court to grant 90 days of parole to her son as he needs immediate medical attention in view of various ailments. She said Perarivalan is vulnerable to Covid-19 infection inside the prison as he suffered chronic illness. “In view of the illnesses, my son is being regularly taken to Stanley Government Medical Hospital for the past five years. On February 21, he was treated in the hospital for prostate and urinary infection. He was advised to come for review after 15 days. But he was not taken for the review as prescribed and suffers unbearable pain due to denial of proper treatment,” senior advocate R Shanmugasundaram, representing Arputham, said. Recording the submissions, the bench directed the prosecutor to get instructions from the state government regarding the parole request and directed the registry to inform the counsel for the governor’s office to get appropriate instruction as to the disposal of the recommendation to release the life convicts. The court then adjourned the hearing to July 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-to-guv-cant-sit-on-advice-to-release-rajiv-case-convicts/articleshow/77116694.cms||Sureshkumar
July 23, 2020||Surat||Dang women overcome lockdown blues with mushroom cultivation||SURAT: While global economic activities came to standstill bowing to the pressures of the pandemic, a group of motley 217 tribal women from far-flung villages of Dang district were busy counting the greens, literally. Reason? An experiment with oyster mushroom cultivation made these landless women rich with exotic moolah. Interestingly, on an average each of them got richer by four times after their investment of Rs 3,000 yielded each around Rs 12,000 as returns. They started plantations in January and the produce was ready in three months. Mushrooms grown in their own backyard sold like hot cakes in the market. “Due to the lockdown when all avenues to earn money dried up, mushroom cultivation helped me to support my family. I will cultivate it again due to its good production in a small space,” Radha Dalvi, a resident of Baradpani village. The women were trained by BAIF Institute of Sustainable Livelihoods and Development (BISLD) at Lachhakadi near Vansda. Pravina Dirari, a beneficiary of Vanarchhod village said, “Mushroom cultivation provides in-house employment options to women. It is a good earning option despite lockdown.” Each participating women ‘farmer’ grew over 60kg mushroom in their backyard. The produce is sold at Rs 200 per kilo in the local market and can fetch even much higher price once the hotels start functioning in hill station Saputara again. “With increase in production better packaging facilities will be developed for secure transportation to nearby cities. Their existing produce was sold in markets of nearby towns and the village haats,” Yadav added. “Due to the good production and sales, these women will repeat their mushroom cultivation again and the produce will be ready in next three months. They got a boost with quick sales of the first yield even though it was an experiment,” said Sandip Yadav, senior programme manager.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dang-women-overcome-lockdown-blues-with-mushroom-cultivation/articleshow/77114902.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
July 23, 2020||Lucknow||‘Qurbani’ can be foregonein pandemic: Shia cleric||LUCKNOW: Prominent Shia cleric Maulana Kalbe Sadiq said on Wednesday that in his view when animals are not easily available in extraordinary circumstances, like in the time of coronavirus, then Muslims can forego the ritual of ‘qurbani’ (animal sacrifice) on Bakrid. Speaking to TOI on phone in the context of the ongoing pandemic, Maulana Sadiq, who is also the senior vice-president of the All India Muslim Personal Law Board, said that in these times if the government and doctors opine that Bakrid celebrations should be limited, people should adhere to the appeal. Sadiq’s statement is relevant amid confusion in the Muslim community about Bakrid, because of lack of clarity till date whether or not administration will allow bakra mandis to assemble this year for the sale of goats. Transportation of animals for sale and purchase is also not allowed as of now. Bakrid will be celebrated on August 1 which is a Saturday and the mandatory weekend curbs to contain the pandemic will be in place. “Islam and Shariah do not allow a person to put his own life or that of others in danger. And if the government and doctors are of the opinion that to contain Covid-19, people should stay at their homes, it should be followed,” said Maulana Sadiq whose words are widely respected among Shias and even in other communities as well. Shias form a sizeable population in Lucknow after Hyderabad with an estimated 3-3.5 lakh Shias in the city. Maulana Sadiq also said that while both Eid-ul-Fitr (after Ramzan) and Eid-ul-Zuha, hold high significance for Muslims, but if sacrificial animals are not available due to Covid related transportation and social distancing reasons, people should not take risk for the same. “In fact, Islam does not burden everyone with performing the ritual of qurbani. Except those who are performing haj, for whom it is obligatory to sacrifice an animal, those who cannot afford sacrificing an animal are exempt from the service or can pool in with other people. Grand Ayatollah Ali Al Sistani’s fatwa in this regard and even higher Sunni authorities have consensus on this fact,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/qurbani-can-be-foregonein-pandemic-shia-cleric/articleshow/77116927.cms||Yusra Husain
July 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana seeks time on new online class policy||HYDERABAD: The government on Wednesday sought time from the high court to place before it the state’s new policy on conducting the online classes. It, however, reminded the court that the central government had issued clear guidelines under ‘Pragyata’ for commencing digital mode of education all over the country. State’s special counsel A Sanjeev Kumar told a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy that the government would study the Centre’s policy also before coming out with their own. The government, in its counter, said that it has the option of evolving its own policy in tune with the central guidelines which had been prepared by the NCERT. The bench was hearing a PIL filed by Hyderabad Schools Parents’ Association, which questioned the methods of some of the private schools that were allegedly charging in the name of conducting online classes. Sanjeev said that the schools and colleges in the state would remain closed till July 31. “The question of commencing the academic year would arise only after July 31,” he said. The bench allowed an implead application and made CBSE as a respondent to the case and sought its views on the matter by August 6. Sanjeev assured the parents that the education department was in the process of preparing an academic calender that is convenient to all and the mode of teaching too would be prepared in a manner that won’t burden the parents. “We are on the verge of coming out with a continuous learning policy that will have modes of online learning too,” he said. The government would also bring along strict rules that will have to be adhered to by all the schools, the state counsel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-seeks-time-on-new-online-class-policy/articleshow/77116049.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
July 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: Traders favour 10am to 8pm shop time for five days a week||PUNE: The apex body of traders in the city has suggested withdrawal of the P1/P2 arrangement for shops to function as the 10-day total lockdown nears end. The Federation of Trade Associations of Pune (FTAP) has also planned a 10am-8pm timing for all shops from Monday to Friday and total closure on Saturdays and Sundays. Alternatively, it has suggested a 10am-7pm timing for the shops to operate throughout the week. Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “We will discuss all these demands with the commissioner of police on Thursday before taking a final call. They (traders) have shared a detailed proposal regarding the ‘total lockdown’ relaxations. They do not want the P1/P2 system.” He added, “We will finalize a course of action based on the outcome of our discussion with the police. All options will be discussed, as Thursday is the final day of the total lockdown. The final order on the arrangement will be issued either on Thursday or Friday.” FTAP president Fatehchand Ranka, secretary Mahendra Pitaliya and other association members recently met Kumar and Saurabh Rao, the officer on special duty at the Pune divisional commissioner’s office and many senior officials to submit a proposal, besides discussing multiple alternatives to bring trade back on track. Ranks said, “The PMC commissioner told us that a decision on the course of action for reopening of the markets will be taken after a meeting with the police commissioner. The alternatives provided by us will be deliberated upon during the meeting before a decision on the lockdown relaxations is taken.” Pitaliya said, “We have suggested two alternatives for the lockdown relaxation. We do not favour resumption of the P1/P2 arrangement for the shops. Instead, all shops can be permitted to remain open all 7 days in a week from 10am to 7pm. Alternatively, the shops can remain open from Monday to Friday from 10am to 8pm and a total lockdown can be observed on weekends.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/traders-favour-10am-to-8pm-shop-time-for-5-days-a-week/articleshow/77116690.cms||Rujuta Parekh
July 23, 2020||Rajkot||Ghee adulteration at dairy being probed||PALANPUR: Gujarat Food and Drugs Control Administration (FDCA) has started collecting and checking ghee samples of Mehsana’s Dudhsagar Dairy after reports of adulteration. Sources said that FDCA teams from Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar have started the drive since Tuesday and are expected to continue their inspection on Thursday as well. The move comes after a major controversy surfaced during a board meeting of Dudhsagar Dairy when a couple of board members questioned the chairman and managing director over reports of rampant adulteration in ghee. A letter written by RS Sodhi, managing director of the Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation Limited (GCMMF) to the dairy’s board members caused a flutter during the meeting. “It was through this letter that we came to know that GCMMF had asked to stop dispatch of 600 metric tonnes of ghee worth Rs 40 crore as of the 172 batches, 118 were found unfit,” said board member Ashok Chaudhary. Sodhi’s letter also stated that there is other 512 metric tonnes ghee in the dairy’s godown, samples of which will also be tested. “If the samples are found adulterated, the entire bulk will be returned to Mehsana dairy which will have to bear the expense,” the letter stated, adding that it is responsibility of board members to keep a check on such things that result in damage to the milk union and income of farmers. Last month, a sample of ghee dispatched from the Dudu plant in Rajasthan was found adulterated after the local police there stopped a tanker coming to Mehsana. The sample checked at AmulFed, Gandhinagar contained around 16% palm oil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ghee-adulteration-at-dairy-being-probed/articleshow/77114792.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Lucknow||Multiple choice question pattern in Lucknow University final year exams||LUCKNOW: All undergraduate and postgraduate final year examinations of Lucknow University will be held on multiple choice questions (MCQ) based pattern. The decision was taken in a meeting on Wednesday. As per state government’s directions, examinations of only final year students will be held while others will be promoted on basis of their marks in previous semester. The annual examinations which used to be theoretical will be objective type this year. The duration of examination has also been reduced from three to two hours. Only one paper of the final year was held on March 16 and the remaining were postponed due to lockdown. Lucknow University vice-chancellor Prof Alok Kumar Rai said, “Only one undergraduate examination was held, it has been cancelled. Now, all examinations this year will be on MCQ pattern. ” The semester theoretical examination of postgraduate courses will also be on MCQ pattern, he added. LU will conduct one exam covering two papers to complete the process in less time. One question paper will have separate sections for each paper. For examples, in BCom there are four subject groups in which eight papers (two in each group) are held. Instead of holding eight papers, one on each day, only four will be conducted.  Students will get paper with sections A and B, covering two papers of each subject group. Each paper will have 100 questions, having 50 of each paper. Similarly, in BA and BSc, only three papers will be held instead of six. One paper will have A, B, C sections, with 50 questions on each. Students will have to do 25 questions in each section.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/multiple-choice-question-pattern-in-lu-final-yr-exams/articleshow/77117018.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: 25 arms licences issued to Vikas Dubey’s kin, associates cancelled||LUCKNOW: District authorities in Kanpur were all set to initiate proceedings to cancel as many as 25 arms licences issued to family members and close associates of gangster Vikas Dubey. The move has been initiated after it was established that most of these firearms were in the possession of the slain don and his men, and not the licensee. Police say that most of these firearms were used in the gun-battle in Bikru village that took place on July 3 in which eight policemen, including a deputy superintendent of police (DySP), were shot dead. Kanpur Nagar SSP Dinesh Kumar Prabhu said that a report about the cancellation of 25 licences issued to Dubey's family members and relatives had been sent to the agencies concerned. The officer also said that during the course of investigation it was also revealed that most of the family members were not even aware that an arms licence in their name was issued by the district administration. Another senior police officer said that a list of his family members who were issued arms licences since 1990 was tracked in which 25 were traced. The officer did not disclose names of licensees citing security issues. Crime branch officials disclosed that these 25 weapons were used in the attack on cops. “The don was preparing for a fight or must have had knowledge of weapons as he had stored rifles, ratio,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/25-arms-licences-issued-to-vikas-dubeys-kin-associates-cancelled/articleshow/77116977.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
July 23, 2020||Aurangabad||Parbhani bans entry of non-essential vehicles||Aurangabad: Parbhani collector Deepak Mugalikar has ordered a ban on the entry of all vehicles in the district in an attempt to bring a check on the spread of coronavirus from people coming from outside. Till date, Parbhani has reported a total of 445 Covid-19 positive cases, of which, 219 are active. In April, Parbhani had reported just two cases followed by 81 in May, 33 in June and 329 by July 22. This surge in the number of positive cases has forced the district administration to impose restrictions on inter-district movement. As per the latest order, only bonafide residents of Parbhani, goods carrier and medical emergency services have been exempted from the imposed ban that would remain in force till July 31. To ensure that the burden of preventing the entry of people from other districts is brought down, Mugalikar shot a letter to the state government as well as to all the district collectors across the state asking them to refrain from issuing travel passes to Parbhani till month end. Mugalikar said that the decision has been taken while taking serious cognizance of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Parbhani. “We have found that the people who have come in contact with those from hotspots and others districts, have become primary source of contagion in our district,” said Mugalikar. Citing the examples from Gangakhed tehsil where curfew has been imposed, the district collector said that a family went to Latur for marriage and some members of this family got infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/parbhani-bans-entry-of-non-essential-vehicles/articleshow/77116045.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 23, 2020||Delhi||As states refuse to connect, private bus operators have illegal run||NEW DELHI: It seems unlikely that inter-state bus services will restart in Delhi anytime soon as most neighbouring states are unwilling to send their buses to the capital and Delhi doesn’t have buses that can ply on longer routes. The demand for inter-state travel, however, has led to a spike in the number of private buses ferrying passengers illegally. Before the national lockdown was announced, the three ISBTs of Delhi — Kashmere Gate, Anand Vihar and Sarai Kale Khan — used to witness a total footfall of three lakh passengers a day and nearly 3,500 buses arrived at these ISBTs from neighbouring states. While the Centre allowed inter-state bus transport from June 1 as part of Unlock 1.0, services didn’t start to and from Delhi. “Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) doesn’t run any inter-state services, apart from limited bus services in the national capital region. The reason is that DTC’s entire fleet is CNG-run and the fuel is not easily available in other states,” said an official of Delhi Transport Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited, which manages ISBTs in Delhi. That is why, inter-state passengers are dependent on government-run buses of other states. “No state, except for Rajasthan which has sent a proposal to operate 70 buses from here, is willing to start bus services to Delhi. Major share of inter-state bus passengers is of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, which have not conveyed any plan to resume services to Delhi,” he said. The largest number of inter-state buses — 1,519 — used to arrive from Uttar Pradesh every day before the lockdown, followed by 757 buses from Haryana. “If only one state is allowed to ply inter-state buses, these buses will witness heavy crowding and it will be difficult to maintain social distancing. Due to this reason, responses from other states are awaited,” he said. “We can recommend to the government to start inter-state bus services only when at least two or three major bus operating states show their willingness to start these services,” he added. While ISBTs have remained closed, the demand for inter-state bus travel has been growing by the day, leading to private bus operators from other states picking up and dropping off passengers in Delhi, even while violating rules. In a major crackdown on these private buses operating illegally, the transport department has seized 133 such buses in past one week, of which 92 are registered in Uttar Pradesh, 23 in Rajasthan and seven in Bihar. The action was taken by the department’s enforcement wing after it found that private operators from other states are ferrying passengers in contract carriage buses. In a letter to state transport authorities of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Bihar, special commissioner (transport) KK Dahiya has requested that the permits of these buses should be cancelled as a deterrent action. The department has deployed 20 teams to take action against such buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-states-refuse-to-connect-pvt-bus-operators-have-illegal-run/articleshow/77116035.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 23, 2020||Lucknow||Rainwater harvesting at all govt buildings soon: Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said that despite several measures taken by his government over the past three years, the falling groundwater levels in many blocks are a cause of concern. Addressing the conclusion session of the groundwater week on Wednesday, he added along with falling levels, quality of water is equally worrying and therefore a river basin wise water quality test will be done soon. Yogi said that UP has sufficient availability of ground and surface water, but while using this water it was also imperative to worry about its conservation. “In the past three to four decades, groundwater overuse has been rampant in rural and urban areas. Out of 823 development blocks in the state, water level has fallen by 20 cm in 287 blocks and by 50 cm to one m in 77 blocks. Water level in 82 blocks is over exploited, critical in 37 blocks and semi-critical in 151,” he said, adding that many aquifers were drying up due to overuse. Yogi said the Groundwater Week was necessary to generate awareness about preservation of natural resources which need protection in order to preserve them. He has appealed to people to set up rainwater harvesting in their buildings. Talking about the groundwater conservation rules, the CM said that all government buildings will get rooftop rainwater harvesting systems within a year. Local bodies have also been asked to pass building plans for 300 sq feet houses only if they have rainwater harvesting. “Public participation is must to save water. Falling water quality has come to our notice. In areas where water is hard, or is contaminated with arsenic or fluoride, the reason is overuse of groundwater. When groundwater is used, it also needs to be used judiciously and be replenished,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rainwater-harvesting-at-all-govt-buildings-soon-yogi/articleshow/77116989.cms||Neha Lalchandani
July 23, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Ganpati utsav to be a low-key affair this year||LUCKNOW: This year Ganpati utsav will be a low-key affair in wake of novel coronavirus pandemic. The 10-day festival will begin on ‘Ganesh Chaturthi falling on August 22. Unlike the usual pomp and show, ‘Manautiyon ke Raja Ganesh pandal’ will be set up at a venue other than Jhulelal Park on the Gomti banks. The Ganesh Prakatya Committee has decided to organise health and blood donation camps this year. “The pandal at Jhulelal Park is set up at around 18,000 square feet and the Ganpati idol is usually nine-foot tall. Around three lakh devotees throng our pandal every day. But in view of the pandemic we won’t allow devotees to enter the pandal. We will also hold the puja at a different venue, comparatively smaller in size. The venue will be decided later,” said Bharat Bhushan Gupta, president of the committee. “We would not hold any cultural event. No procession will be taken out and the committee will strictly follow the Covid guidelines. The idol of Lord Ganesha will also be 2.5 feet in size. We are planning to hold health and blood donation camps during the 10-day festival and will distribute food packets among the needy,” he added. The ‘Aminabad ke Raja’ Ganesh pandal, which has been organising the celebrations for 30 years, is also planning to hold a week-long awareness campaign on Covid-19. Here, too, only a daily 'aarti' will be organised at the puja venue and other programmes would be cut short. “Every year we plan many events, but the pandemic has dampened festivities. Ganesh idol too will be eco-friendly. It would be prepared either from cow dung or bran orjaggery,” said Atul Awasthi, an organiser.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ganpati-utsav-to-be-a-low-key-affair-this-year/articleshow/77116948.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Hubballi||Don’t hesitate to donate plasma, Hubballi’s first donor appeals to recovered patients||HUBBALLI: Mohammed Yusuf Ganjewale, 64, is a graveyard guard in the city and the first person who donated plasma after recovering from Covid-19. This helped KIMS conduct the first successful plasma therapy in the state. Ganjewala has now appealed to all people who have recovered from Covid-19 to come forward to donate plasma. Ganjewale, (P-363), a BA graduate told TOI, “The recovered patients should donate their plasma. Many patients who have recovered are scared that by donating plasma, they may have side effects, but it’s all false.” “Saving the life of someone by sacrificing our own life is humanity. Aged people and those with severe health problems can be saved by plasma therapy,” he said. “Even I was worried before donating plasma but Dr Ashpaq Bijapur and Dr Arun Kumar, Superintendent of KIMS convinced me. Now I am interacting with many discharged patients and trying to convince them to donate plasma. I also tell them that there aren’t any side effects,” he added. Stating that he faced many challenges to return to normal life after he was discharged, Ganjewale said many people avoided meeting him. “But now the same people are appreciating me for doing a service to humanity,” he said. “I have been serving at a graveyard for 10 years, looking after the final rites. God has given me human life for a reason, and I am doing it. If required, I am ready to donate plasma again after three months. If an animal finds another animal in trouble, it rushes to its rescue. After all, we are human beings and we should come forward to help humanity. ‘Pehale Insaan Phir Hindu, Musalman,’ is my motto and I have written it even on my scooter,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/dont-hesitate-to-donate-plasma-hubballis-first-donor-appeals-to-recovered-patients/articleshow/77115258.cms||J Abbas Mulla
July 23, 2020||Aurangabad||HC acquits 10 held under MCOCA, tells govt to return fine||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad Bench bof the Bombay high court recently acquitted 10 people who were granted five years in prison and fined Rs 5 lakh each under the provisions of MCOCA in 2015 by the special MCOCA court in Aurangabad. The HC has also directed: “The fine amount, if has already been paid by the appellants, be refunded to them.” The 10 individuals were convicted in January 2015 for the offences punishable under sections 3(1)(ii) and 3(4) of the MCOCA and sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for a period of five years. They were also fined Rs 5 lakh each. In case of default of fine payment, they were directed to undergo RI for three years. They were arrested by the Hadgaon police in 2009 for their involvement in two separate offences punishable under sections 395 and 397 of the IPC and sections 396 and 397 of the IPC, respectively. Subsequently, the police inspector concerned had sought the government permission to book these accused separately under the MCOCA provisions as well. The 10-accused challenged the MCOCA court verdict in the HC by filing four separate appeals, through lawyer Nilesh Ghanekar, who pointed out that these accused have already been acquitted in the cases registered against them with the Hadgaon police station. They had been booked under MCOCA on the bases of those cases. While allowing the criminal appeals, Justice R G Awachat remarked: “It has to be observed that the appellants have not been tried for committing an organised crime. It appears that a clear illegality has been committed in prosecuting the appellants only on the basis of their involvement in previous crimes.” Justice Awachant also observed: “Since the appellants have not been tried for any continuing unlawful activity which could have been an organised crime punishable under section 3(1)(ii) of the MCOC Act and having been committed as members of organised crime syndicate, and therefore, being liable for punishment as members of organised crime syndicate, interference with the impugned judgment and order is called for.” The bench, while ordering acquittal of all the accused, also ordered: “Ukla Fakira Pawar, who is in jail, be set at liberty forthwith, if not required in any other offence.” Ghanekar said that nine other accused were already out on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-acquits-10-held-under-mcoca-tells-govt-to-return-fine/articleshow/77116057.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
July 23, 2020||Aurangabad||Serve conviction warranton neta by July 24: Court||blurb: The high court warned that the police commissioner and senior PI will have to be personally present in court if the warrant is not served by the set date ———- Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court has directed the police department to ensure that a conviction warrant be served on political activist Milind Shriram Patil by July 24, failing which the city police commissioner and senior police inspector Sharad N Ingle will have to remain personally present in court on the set date. Petitioners Komal Navinchandra Patni and others had approached the high court through lawyer Sagar Ladda earlier this year seeking directions to police to serve a conviction warrant on the political activist, which they had not done for about five years while citing that the man was “not traceable”. Milind Patil, was convicted on October 30, 2015, for the offence punishable under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 (dishonour of cheque for insufficiency, etc, of funds in the account) vide section 255 (2) of the code of criminal procedure code and was sentenced to simple imprisonment for one year. He was also directed to pay a compensation of Rs 60 lakh to the original complainants/petitioners. The criminal writ petition came up for hearing before Justices Ravindra Ghuge and M G Sewlikar on Tuesday, when police again stated that Patil was not traceable. Ladda then presented evidence that Patil was meeting political bigwigs and also active on social media. The court observed: “We have also perused the various documents before us, which indicate that even after conviction, the accused/convict is found in the company of senior politicians in the state of Maharashtra and is active on social media. Despite the same, the learned additional public prosecutor has placed before us the report of Sharad Ingle, senior inspector, police station Mukundwadi, stating that the said convict Milind Shrirarm Patil is not traceable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/serve-conviction-warranton-neta-by-july-24-court/articleshow/77116074.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
July 23, 2020||Lucknow||Woman who tried to immolate self near Lok Bhawan succumbs to burns in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: A 55-year-old woman from Amethi, who along with her 28-year-old daughter attempted self-immolation outside Lok Bhawan in the city on July 17, succumbed to her burn wounds on Wednesday. While she had suffered 90% burns, her daughter had 15% and is undergoing treatment. The two women had alleged that they had lodged a police complaint regarding sexual harassment against a neighbour but no action was initiated against the accused by the Amethi police. The Amethi police later said that the four accused named by them had already been arrested and that the two women were instigated to commit self-immolation by an AIMIM a Congress functionary. Medical superintendent of civil hospital, Dr Ashutosh Dubey, said that the elder woman had succumbed to her injuries at 11.45 pm on Tuesday night. He also said that her daughter whose condition had improved would be discharged soon. A day after the immolation bid, Lucknow police had arrested and also booked Amethi district president of AIMIM, Kadir Khan, and booked Congress neta Anoop Patel for provoking the two women to attempt self-immolate outside Lok Bhawan to draw the attention of the authorities towards their complaint. Two relatives of the victim’s family were also arrested by the police. Deputy Commissioner of police, central, Dinesh Singh said that efforts to nab Anoop Patel and others associated with the controversy was on. On the other hand, SP, Amethi, Khyati Garg told TOI that the 28-year-old woman had lodged an FIR against four persons identified as Arjun, Sunil, Raj Karan and Ram Milan, and the four were arrested on July 16 itself. “The complainant claimed she was sexually assaulted by them following a dispute over drain on May 9, 2020. Her FIR was immediately lodged. A cross-FIR was filed by Arjun who accused her of attacking him,” she added. The SP also said that on May 13, the local pradhan tried to mediate and both the parties were issued notices. “We repeatedly asked the victim woman to get her statement recorded in front of the magistrate for probe but she did not pay heed,” added Garg. She gave her statement on July 15 after which all the four accused were arrested, Garg said and added that the police or local intelligence unit did not have any information that the women were going to Lucknow. On Wednesday evening, the elder daughter of the woman complained of ill-treatment meted out to her mother by the police and doctors at civil hospital.  She told media persons in Amethi that her brother who had gone to meet her mother in the hospital was attacked by cops. She was also not ready to take the body of her mother for last rites. Later, SP Amethi and senior officials pacified her following which her body was sent for the last rites. However, police authorities in Lucknow denied any such allegations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/woman-who-tried-to-immolate-self-near-lok-bhawan-succumbs-to-burns/articleshow/77117002.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: Citizens remove barricades before shutdown gets over||PUNE: Barricades installed by the Pune police and the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to impose lockdown were found dislodged in several areas across the city on Wednesday. Residents in Sahakarnagar, Kothrud, Karvenagar, Deccan, Shivajinagar, Sinhagad Road lanes and Katraj, among other places, complained that they were facing difficulties in commuting as the roads were barricaded by steel and bamboo structures. TOI on Wednesday found barricades dislodged in Kothrud, Deccan, Shivajinagar Karve Road and Satara Road, among other places. The barricades were put at many places on July 13 and 14 for the 10-day total lockdown. A senior police officer told TOI, “The lockdown was relaxed on Sunday to allow people to buy essentials and vegetables. Later in the evening, we found many barricades removed by people without the knowledge and permission of the local police authorities.” Kalpana Jadhav, senior police inspector, Alankar police station, said, “Some people had dislodged barricades on Sunday and Tuesday. We are putting them back now.” Senior inspector Vasant Kuvar of Bharati Vidyapeeth police said, “People took law into their own hands and removed the barricades, which block the entry and exit of some lanes behind Bharati Vidyapeeth and Dhankawdi. In the last two days, many people came on the road after the lockdown norms were relaxed and removed the barricades to reach their destinations in their private vehicles.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citizens-remove-barricades-before-shutdown-gets-over/articleshow/77116714.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Rajkot||Seven arrested for illegal sand mining||RAJKOT: Seven persons were arrested for illegally mining sand from the beach of the Arabian Sea at Khandera village of Datha taluka in Bhavnagar district on Tuesday. “We recovered three tonnes of illegally excavated sand worth Rs 1,500, a loader for filling the sand, worth Rs 15 lakh, and three tractor trolleys, worth Rs 15 lakh, from the accused,” said R H Bar, inspector with Bhavnagar range rapid response cell. “We have booked the accused under sections 379 and 114 of the Indian Penal Code and section 21 of Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act,” added Bar. The accused were identified as Dikshit Chauhan (19), Arwind Baraiya (35), Vipulsinh Rathod (21), Kishor Shiyal (28), Vijaysinh Rathod (28), Jagdeesh Dhapa (33) and Chandu Dhapa (30).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/seven-arrested-for-illegal-sand-mining/articleshow/77114817.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu village goes without streetlights for 35 days to make home for bird and its chicks||MADURAI: Living up to the fabled tale of Tamil King Pari — one of the seven great patrons (kadai ezhu vallalgal) of the Sangam era who abandoned his golden chariot to help a climber take root — a village in Sivaganga district has gone dark without streetlights for more than a month now to save the hatchlings of an Indian Robbin (Copsychus fulicatus) that had turned the village’s community switchboard into its nest. READ THE COMPLETE STORY ON TOI+Watch Tamil Nadu village goes without streetlights for 35 days to make home for bird and its chicks||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-village-goes-without-streetlights-for-35-days-to-make-home-for-bird-and-its-chicks/articleshow/77116723.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
July 23, 2020||Dehradun||Cabinet minister leaves Kumbh meeting in anger on finding IAS officials absent||Dehradun: Uttarakhand’s urban development minister and state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik left a Kumbh review meeting in anger on Wednesday after finding out that senior IAS officers were absent and had sent their juniors instead for the meeting that was planned almost a week in advance. The cabinet minister left the meeting saying, “What is the point of holding important meetings when officials do not bother to remain present?” The meeting was to be attended by the secretaries in-charge of the power, transport, and drinking water departments but apart from one secretary, the others had sent junior officials instead. Later, Kaushik spoke to the state chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh and complained regarding their absence. Sources said that intimation regarding the meeting was given to the officials a week earlier and senior bureaucrats of various departments linked with ongoing Kumbh projects were scheduled to attend the meeting. However, barring IAS officer Shailesh Bagauli, other secretary-rank officials did not turn up for the meet. When Kaushik found out that only one senior official was present in the meeting, he got enraged. “Where are the secretaries for energy, PWD, peyjal, and irrigation? They don’t seem to have the time to attend crucial meetings. They seem least bothered,” the incensed minister told those present. Later, while interacting with mediapersons, Kaushik said, “There are many works related to Kumbh preparations like under-cabling of electricity wires, gas lines, and sewer lines, and this was an important meeting to review the progress of these projects.” He added that “it looks like the notice was not served to the officers concerned, so they could not come." "The meeting has been postponed and will be held later,” he said. In the latest development, chief secretary Singh, on the directions of CM Trivendra Singh Rawat, has ordered all additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries, secretaries, and additional chief secretaries to remain present in the meetings called by any minister. In case, these officials are unable to make it to the meeting, they must inform the personal secretary of the minister concerned. The senior state officials will have to be present in the meeting with all the details. The chief secretary has maintained that there should be no laxity in this matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cabinet-minister-leaves-kumbh-meeting-in-anger-on-finding-ias-officials-absent/articleshow/77113789.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 23, 2020||Pune||Cops to allow autorickshaws to ply sans passes from tomorrow||Pune: The city traffic police on Wednesday said autorickshaw drivers could ply without passes once the 10-day total lockdown was over. “The lockdown ends on Thursday, after which there is no reason to distribute the passes among the autorickshaw drivers. No autorickshaw was allowed to ply today (Wednesday),” DCP (traffic) Prasad Akkanouru told TOI.The traffic police had directed all autorickshaw drivers to return by Tuesday the passes issued to them through their unions to transport passengers, much to the concerns of people depending on the three-wheelers for their essential travel during the lockdown period. As many as 640 passes were earlier issued to a city-based company operating the autorickshaw service during the lockdown period. The company gave 150 passes to the Rickshaw Panchayat union for distribution among the autorickshaw drivers. Some autorickshaw drivers alleged that the company had taken Rs400 from each of them towards ‘service charge’. The traffic police recalled the passes in the wake of the allegation. On Tuesday, a meeting was held involving the autorickshaw unions to finds options to streamline the service. Police officers in the know of the meeting said the options included introducing area-wise phone numbers of the autorickshaw drivers. An officer said this would be helpful to issue passes for the autorickshaws to ply in case another lockdown was announced in future.  Nitin Pawar of the Rickshaw Panchayat said, “Besides the area-wise contact numbers of the autorickshaw drivers, there can be another option of people contacting police chowkis to hire autorickshaws. The police are also expected to increase the number of autorickshaw passes to 800 from 640.” Ishwar Manjarekar, an autorickshaw driver, said, “The number of autorickshaws on the road was few on Wednesday. But I have a regular customer, who contacted me to take her ill child to a hospital. I picked her from Camp.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-to-allow-autorickshaws-to-ply-sans-passes-from-tomorrow/articleshow/77116701.cms||Joy Sengupta
July 23, 2020||Nagpur||After HC rap, MahaMetro removes debris from KP||Nagpur: Two days after Nagpur bench of Bombay high court blasted respondents for pitiable conditions of Kasturchand Park, MahaMetro authorities swung into action. Contractors and workers not only cleared material strewn around in their allotted area, but also from the LIC Square corner. A MahaMetro spokesperson said construction material like granite, CC blocks and sand, just outside the barricades were already removed from the ground by the contractor about 15 days back. “The debris dumped by others and not related to metro work has been removed, as directed by the collector. The scrap material adjacent to the barricades has also been cleared,” he told TOI. On Monday, the HC bench added MahaMetro as respondent in the PIL and directed it to erect fencing on the entire portion of land allotted to it by the collector. All respondents were also told to fill up pits and trenches laid out for drainage lines, and level the ground. The spokesperson said the metro work portion in ground was enclosed with continuous barricading. “In connection with erection of I-girder of station central viaduct, the approval for compound wall demolition of 23m length was sought from the concerned authority. The wall along with grill work has been reconstructed and completed,” he said. Based on media reports on continuing encroachment by squatters inside the dome, a heritage structure, the HC had taken suo motu cognisance and directed municipal and police commissioners to come up with an explanation on the issue. They were also told to remove all encroachments in and around the historic ground. “The media report presents a disturbing and dismal picture of KP ground and old structure. It indicates that the pavilion there is under illegal occupation of squatters and a major portion of the ground is in a shambles. The HC can’t remain a silent spectator to this brazen misuse,” the HC had tersely observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-hc-rap-mahametro-removes-debris-from-kp/articleshow/77116103.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Pune||100 Kondhwa societies keep nCoV to 18 cases||Pune: Over a 100 housing societies along the NIBM and Salunkhe Vihar roads in Kondhwa have kept Covid-19 at bay, so far. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has reported 16 positive cases, including six on NIBM Road and 10 on Salunke Vihar Road, since March. No deaths have been reported till date. Three slums in the vicinity of these societies include a population of 40,000. Tiles contractor Bharat Karbhari from Siddharthnagar on NIBM Annexe Road said there are over 1,000 people in the vasti, but not a single person has tested positive till date. “We have sensitised housing societies and shops by holding meetings and making announcements on the public address system about social distancing, wearing face masks and using sanitisers. We have conducted door-to-door survey of 12,000 residents and collected swab samples of over 200 people. We have fined some people for not wearing face masks,” Hadapsar civic ward office sanitary inspector Navnath Shelar said. Corporator Nanda Lonkar said in the slums which have a greater risk of community transmission, they maintain a strict lockdown and have provided all essentials daily since March. Notices were served on shopkeepers for not maintaining social distancing. “We are coordinating with the managements of housing societies. We also started vegetable stalls on the premises of societies,” she said. Maithili Manakawad, secretary of the Wanowrie Residents’ Association, said,“ The societies follow good hygiene practice. Most have installed sanitisers and basins for washing hands at the main gate. The body temperature of all residents are checked,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/100-kondhwa-societies-keep-ncov-to-18-cases/articleshow/77116742.cms||Asseem Shaikh
July 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Court gives Sonu Punjaban 24-year jail, says she brutalised minor||NEW DELHI: Handing out a 24-year prison term to flesh trade racketeer Sonu Punjaban, a court on Wednesday elaborated on how she “outraged and brutalised” a minor survivor while forcing her into prostitution. While Punjaban was punished for immoral trafficking and forcing a minor into prostitution, another accused, Sandeep Bedwal, was sentenced to 20 years in jail for abducting and raping the girl. Both were convicted on the basis of the minor survivor’s complaint made on February 9, 2014. Punjaban, said additional sessions judge Pritam Singh, had not only “purchased” the girl but also “brutalised” her to make her surrender to her demands. “She forcibly administered drugs to the survivor so that she didn’t resist a customer, who would sexually exploit her,” Singh noted in the 10-page sentencing order. Punjaban had also put chilli powder on the survivor’s breasts and in her mouth to “create fear so that she acted according to her wishes”, the judge said. Stating that a woman’s modesty is “next to her soul”, Singh wondered how a woman could outrage and brutalise the modesty of another woman, that too of a minor. The judge termed the survivor’s ordeal as “painful and horrific”. Referring to Punjaban, the court opined “a person, irrespective of gender, who does horrific and terrible acts has no right to live in a civilised society and for her, the best place to live inside the four walls of jail. Punjaban crossed all limits to be called a woman and deserves the severest punishment”. Describing children as the future of a country, the court said the future depended on how the country treated its children. “In India, thousands of children are kidnapped every year with very few of them getting rescued. Minor girls are kidnapped on the pretext of marriage to be sold in the flesh trade industry.” The present case, too, showed the court that an innocent girl was trapped “in the name of love” and kidnapped in a “pre-planned manner” only to be forced into prostitution. The survivor had alleged that when she was in school in 2006, Bedwal claimed that he had “loved her” and wanted to marry her. Bedwal was also slapped with a fine of Rs 65,000 and Punjaban with that of Rs 64,000. Considering the age at which the crimes were committed against her, the court awarded Rs 7 lakh as compensation to the survivor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-gives-sonu-punjaban-24-yr-jail-says-she-brutalised-minor/articleshow/77116079.cms||Aamir Khan
July 23, 2020||Pune||Lockdown allowed testing and infrastructure boost: PCMC chief||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar said on Wednesday that the intent of the 10-day lockdown was not to reduce the case load, but to ramp up the infrastructure and conduct more tests. The number of positive cases in PCMC limits rose to 13,107 on July 22 from 7,637 on July 13, while the number of deaths rose to 238 from 120 during the same period. “We had made it clear earlier that we don’t expect the numbers to go down. In fact, the cases are going to rise because we used the time to identify maximum number of affected people. Our assumption is that the spread was already very high. The lockdown period was meant to isolate as many people as possible and limit their interaction to check the virus spread,” he said. The average daily testing in PCMC nearly trebled to 3,000 tests per day during the nine days of lockdown as compared to the same number of days prior to the lockdown. These tests also include antigen tests, which can at best be considered an early indicator as compared to the gold-standard RT-PCR tests. “All tests entail deployment of a large infrastructure. A paramedic or a doctor can only test 40 swabs a day. So, we need to increase the number of personnel to conduct more tests,” Hardikar said. He said the civic body was in the process of adding additional beds in all categories. “We are adding 100 ICU beds . We will add 800 oxygen beds and 3,000 Covid care centre beds. We are also adding an additional 40 ambulances to the fleet,” Hardikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lockdown-allowed-testing-infra-boost-pcmc-chief/articleshow/77116729.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
July 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: Four assault man over mask advise||PUNE: Four persons, including a minor boy, assaulted a 39-year-old man with bamboo sticks after the latter told them to wear masks while they were talking in the parking area of a housing society in Hanumannagar in Ambegaon, off Katraj-Dehu Road bypass, on Monday. The Bharati Vidyapeeth police registered a case of assault against the four suspects, including the minor, on Tuesday. “We arrested the three men — Krishna Baban Lokhande (22), Ajay Bhagwat Ghadge (21) and Anil Sambhaji Netke (21) — on Wednesday morning. The minor boy is still at large,” senior inspector Vasant Kuvar of the Bharati Vidyapeeth police said. The victim, Amit Gajanan Patil, and one of the four youths live in the same housing society. The three other assailants were suspect’s friends, who went to see him. “The four youths were chatting in the parking area when Patil spotted them and told them to wear masks. They did not take his advice kindly and started an argument that soon took a violent turn. They kicked, punched and beat up Patil with bamboo sticks,” Kuvar said. Patil’s family moved him to a nearby hospital as he suffered injuries on his back, head and eye. He was discharged after treatment, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-assault-man-over-mask-advise/articleshow/77116736.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Surat||Refurbish your traffic gyaan online||Surat: Answer these questions truthfully and check your traffic gyaan — 1. At least wear chappals while driving a car. 2. Switch on headlights of your two-wheeler at night. If you are done with the quiz, read on to know why it is important to know how you have fared. City traffic police to conduct an online voluntary test on Sunday as part of its ‘iFollow’ campaign for traffic rules awareness in which knowledge of traffic rules will be tested. Participants will have to register on http://suratcitytrafficpolice.com website and registration is open till Saturday. Before registering those willing to participate can refer an online booklet available on the website. Now, if you think wearing chappals while driving your car is cool, then think again as not wearing shoes while driving a four-wheeler is a traffic rule violation. Also keeping headlights of two-wheelers off during daytime is a traffic rule offence. Shocked? There are many such rules that many vehicle users are unaware of. The test will be conducted from 12 in the afternoon to 2pm and will be of 50 marks. The question paper will have 50 questions in the multiple-choice question (MCQ) format. The test will be in Gujarati and English language. “Along with reference book, we will put various questions and their answers for participants. Out of options candidate will have to select the correct option,” said B N Dave, assistant commissioner of police, region II. Immediately after the test, the results will be announced. An answer key will also be put online after the test. The top 100 scorers will be given a prize while all the participants will get a certificate. “It is an awareness attempt. We are asking even police personnel to participate so that they too can refresh their knowledge about rules,” said Prashant Sumbe, deputy commissioner of police, traffic. “We are expecting around 1 lakh participants. We are approaching schools and colleges for maximum participating since their students are already attending online sessions,” Sumbe added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/refurbish-your-traffic-gyaan-online/articleshow/77116114.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
July 23, 2020||Kolhapur||Bogus doc treated Covid-19 patients in Barshi||Kolhapur: Barshi police in Solapur district are in an unusual situation as they are unable to arrest an alleged bogus doctor against whom local administration had lodged a formal complaint. The person is a Covid-19 patient. Barshi taluka medical officer Dr Rahul Jogdand lodged the complaint on Tuesday. According to the complaint, he has been treating patients with Covid-19 symptoms in Barshi town and surrounding villages. Barshi city assistant police inspector Amol Nanaware said Jogdand had lodged a complaint alleging that a 57-year-old man posing as a doctor and treating people using injections, saline and other medical equipment and allopathic medicines. Dr Jogdand has said in the complaint that the bogus doctor has been for treating people and even visited homes in Barshi and surrounding villages. The administration realized the problem when they learnt that this bogus doctor had initially treated a man in Jamgaon village, who was the first Covid-19 patient in Barshi taluka. Dr Jogdand has blamed this doctor for the increasing the number of patients in Barshi. Barshi taluka has recorded the highest number of Covid-19 patients in a short span of two weeks with 514 positive patients till Tuesday night. Barshi has also recorded eight deaths. API Nanaware said the bogus doctor was himself under Covid-19 treatment. “We are waiting for completion of his treatment and will take further action at appropriate time”. Nanaware said the preliminary investigation reveals that bogus doctor does not possess any medical degrees. Officials said that Barshi town, having a population three lakh, has 241 positive patients. Vairag, another major town in tehsil, has 94 positive patients. Officials said Covid-19 patients are found in 33 villages of the district. South Solapur had the highest number of patients till a few days back and has been replaced by Barshi recently. South Solapur now has 454 positive patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/bogus-doc-treated-covid-19-patients-in-barshi/articleshow/77116096.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Six runways possible in Jewar? PwC to study||LUCKNOW: Lending more wings to the proposed Jewar International Airport in Greater Noida, the state government has formally roped in international consultancy firm, PriceWaterhouseCoopers (PwC), to study the possibility of raising the number of runways from two to six in the proposed Greenfield project. In a communique to the director, civil aviation, on July 17, the state government announced an initial allocation of Rs 21.22 lakh to PwC for carrying out the study. Officials of civil aviation department said, Rs 56.60 lakh would be paid to PwC to prepare a report for Jewar airport, also known as Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL). The state government and Noida authority would bear 37.5% each of study cost while Greater Noida authority and Yamuna expressway authority would bear 12.50% each. Once green-flagged, the move could make Jewar airport, considered an alternative to Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International airport, one of the biggest in the country. State government’s guidelines suggest that directorate of civil aviation should ensure no funds are allocated for the study and any spend would be conducted as per government orders. Officials said, the amount sanctioned for the study is being done as per information provided by director, civil aviation and chief executive officer of NIAL. The two authorities would be accountable for any anomaly in assessment. It would be the duty of the director, civil aviation, the sanctioned amount is spent as per need and should not be kept in the Public Ledger Account. Proposed to come up over 5,000 hectares in Jewar, the airport is proposed to be built as an aviation hub by Zurich Airport Group, according to the master plan of Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA). Last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said at an event in Greater Noida that Jewar would become country’s biggest airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pwc-to-study-possibility-of-increasing-jewar-runways-to-six/articleshow/77117007.cms||Pankaj Shah
July 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Decentralisation to help bring administration closer to people: KT Rama Rao||HYDERABAD: Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao has asked the authorities to prepare plans keeping a 30-year shelf life for them. He said the government is decentralising the departments to take the administration closer to the public. He also mentioned that the government has increased the number of districts, revenue divisions, mandals and municipal corporations as part of the decentralisation process. He was interacting with the municipal commissioners of Hyderabad Agglomeration (HUA) within Outer Ring Road at a training programme at MCRHRD Institute on Wednesday. He said a majority of population in Telangana would be living in towns in the coming years. “Providing essential services to the growing population has been the top most priority of the Telangana government and it has chosen administration decentralization as a tool for the same. The number of municipalities were increased to 141. He also mentioned that these municipalities were funded sufficiently for faster development,” KTR said. The minister said every municipality should come up with innovative revenue generation methods and asked the officials to prepare a water audit for every municipality to provide drinking water supply. He asked officials to give utmost importance to sanitation and cleanliness in the towns and cities. The minister unveiled an app related to cleanliness in the municipalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/decentralisation-to-help-bring-admin-closer-to-people-ktr/articleshow/77116739.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||SCHOOLS BEGIN TO LOG OFF FROM ONLINE CLASSES||Ahmedabad: Self-financed schools in the state have already started shutting down online classes, it seems. On Wednesday night, many parents were flooded with messages that online studies for the academic year 2020-21 will be discontinued from Thursday. The recent directive by the state government to unaided schools to not collect fees for the time the schools have been shut since March 16 due to Covid-19 lockdown, seems to have started taking its toll on online education.A large number of schools in Ahmedabad have already begun informing parents and their children about online classes being discontinued. Bharat Gajipara, president Gujarat Self-Financed School Management Association said that they are planning to close down online classes due to the government’s decision. More than 15,000 schools with over 27 lakh students are associated with the association, according to Gajipara. As many as 7.5 lakh teachers and other staff members are associated with these schools whose livelihood has been put at risk due to the government’s recent notification, Gajipara added. Schools and other educational institutions across the country have been closed since mid-March, when the Centre announced a countrywide classroom shutdown to contain the Covid-19 outbreak. While the government has announced easing of certain restrictions, schools and colleges continue to remain closed. In Gujarat, most schools have started online classes for over two months now. The state education department has issued a number of directives in the past that puts focus on online learning and other distance education methods to impart classroom learning to students till the schools open physically.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/schools-begin-to-log-off-from-online-classes/articleshow/77116822.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Kolhapur||Lockdown begins in Sangli urban||Kolhapur: Urban areas in Sangli district went into complete lockdown from midnight on Wednesday. Only the distribution of milk, newspapers and medical services are permitted till the night of July 30 here. District collector Abhijit Chaudhari has appealed to citizens from the rural areas to also observe ‘janata curfew’. Chaudhari said all vehicular and other movements have been prohibited during the lockdown. All shops, hotels, bars and commercial establishments in urban areas will remain shut. Chaudhari, however, said home delivery and e-commerce services and industrial activities are allowed, but the employees need to get permissions and carry identity cards. Meanwhile, Sangli district added 34 new patients in 24 hours till Wednesday noon. Six deaths were also recorded on Wednesday. Two of the deceased patients are the residents of Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/lockdown-begins-in-sangli-urban/articleshow/77116123.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Surat||Cheque book crisis disrupting payment cycles in textile, diamond sector||Surat: Kailash Agarwal, a textile trader has been waiting for his bank to issue cheque book from the last one-and-a-half-month, so that he can pay his creditors as well as his staff. Every time he visits the bank branch at Ring Road, he is told to wait for couple of more days for the dispatch of the cheque book. Agarwal is not alone who is facing the ‘cheque book’ crisis, but there are many traders in the city’s diamond and textile sectors facing similar problems, resulting in the serious disruption of the payment cycle. Not just the private banks, even the public-sector banks, too are unable to provide cheque books to their customers since last two months. According to the industry leaders, majority of the payments in the textile and diamond sector are made through cheques for withdrawal of cash from the account or for payments. The digital mode of payment like RTGS, NEFT and IMPS are used by very few traders. Most of the traders use the old method of cheque and cash payments to keep track of day-to-day business. Ketan Desai, president of SGCCI told TOI, “Since cheques is the preferred mode of receiving and making payments, there is severe payment crisis in the textile and diamond sectors. We are sending representation to the RBI and the Union Finance ministry to look into the cheque book issue.” “Even if I have sufficient balance in my account, I am unable to make payments to my parties and staff members due non-availability of cheque books. Despite three consecutive requests, the bank is yet to issue me one,” said Devkishan Manghani, a textile trader and chairman of Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry’s (SGCCI) textile committee. Manghani added, “The entire payment cycle is disturbed and delayed due to lack of cheque books in the private and nationalised banks.” KK Singh, deputy general manager, Bank of Baroda told TOI, “Due to Covid-19 and the lockdown, the cheque book printing and dispatch to the customers is badly affected. The private couriers have limited staff due to Covid-19 pandemic, which is aggravating the problem further.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cheque-book-crisis-disrupting-payment-cycles-in-textile-diamond-sector/articleshow/77116089.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Nagpur||Are Buldhana markets more crowded due to reduced timing?||Nagpur: As the lockdown gets stricter in Buldhana district, with everything shut on Saturdays and Sundays, locals say the move has backfired and caused larger crowds to gather when the markets are open. From July 7, the district administration had allowed movement of people only from 9am to 3pm. On Tuesday, the administration announced a complete shutdown on Saturday and Sundays till August 21. This rule makes Buldhana the first district in the state to have an extended complete lockdown. Representatives of the local body and other activists said the crowds have only increased after the window was shortened. Before July 7, movement was allowed from 9am to 5pm, they said. TOI spoke to a cross section of residents, social activists and members of the municipal council, who confirmed the reduced hours have led to more crowding. “A coordination meeting was held this week but I could not attend it. However, it is evident people are rushing out because they now have lesser time. The intensity only increased after complete lockdown was imposed on Saturday and Sunday,” said Najmunissa Sajjad Shaikh, president of Buldhana Municipal Council. Some of the other members of the council also agreed. Cooperative banker Sukesh Zanwar said, “The working class is already hard-pressed due to lack of employment. Many people are coming out just to withdraw money for expenses, or deposit money to earn some interest. This cannot go on longer.” Arvind Honde, BJP councillor, said, “The crowds have only increased after July 7, when movement was restricted between 9am to 3pm. People rush to shops before curfew begins, leading to overcrowding in the markets. Earlier, the rush was spread till 5pm.” Local MLA Sanjay Gaikwad of the Shiv Sena had a different view. “Local markets are on weekends, which leads to influx from nearby villages. The lockdown will prevent entry of outsiders,” said Gaikwad, rejecting the notion there was increase in crowds, instead adding that the curbs have helped. Israr Deshmukh, a social activist, who shared pictures and videos with TOI, said, “As timings have reduced, people rush out to shop before 3pm. There are huge crowds in vegetable and grocery markets, and areas like Janta Chowk, Kamal Chowk and Iqbal Chowk.” The rush in the markets spread over seven days usually may now happen in five days due to lockdown on weekends, said a trader. Responding to a text message by TOI, collector Suman Chandra replied the timings are same as before, from 9am to 3pm, except that Saturday and Sunday will be fully shut. However, she did not reply to a query whether this has led to increased crowding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/are-buldhana-markets-more-crowded-due-to-reduced-timing/articleshow/77116135.cms||Shishir Arya
July 23, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur reports 295 cases, 6 deaths in a day||Kolhapur: Kolhapur district on Wednesday registered 295 fresh Covid-19 cases and six casualties, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 3,035 and death toll to 73. District collector Daulat Desai on Wednesday ordered health authorities to identify buildings near Covid Care Centres for keeping coronavirus suspects. In a meeting with the authorities, Desai said that considering the expected rise in the Covid cases and high-risk contacts of positive patients, additional infrastructure is required for early detection. Desai also said that all Covid Care Centres in the district should be equipped with oxygen facilities. Accordingly, the required equipment are being installed in these centres. According to Desai, these equipment will help treat critical patients. In addition, Desai has asked the local authorities such as tehsildar, block development officers and chief executive officers of town councils to hire additional medical staff such as doctors, nurses and lab technicians so as to run the Covid centres in three shifts. KMC chief recommends protein diet for Covid patients Kolhapur Municipal Corporation chief Mallinath Kalshetti has ordered the authorities to provide protein and vitamin rich diet to Covid-19 patients as well as suspects kept in isolation wards. Kalshetti said that the diet has been fixed as per the recommendations of doctors and has found helpful in quick recovery of patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-reports-295-cases-6-deaths-in-a-day/articleshow/77116116.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Nagpur||Professionals’ assn helps ex-corporator turned security guard||NAGPUR: Three days after the media, including TOI, highlighted the tale of two-time former corporator Deorao Tijare now working as a guard at NIT Complex, the All India Professionals’ Congress (AIPC) workers extended a helping hand to him. Since the news flashed across the national media, many social and political organizations have come forward to help the old man, but he has refused. The former NIT trustee cannot bear his household expenses and had also failed to pay the electricity bills. As usual, Tijare, well known for his honesty and integrity, was reluctant to accept the amount. But AIPC city president Ashwin Agrawal and secretary Vinay Raut were able to convince him to accept a decent amount in his bank account. The help will reduce some of his suffering due to cash crunch after the nationwide lockdown imposed for Covid-19 outbreak. The former Standing Committee chairman of NMC was more concerned about his son Dhyanesh’s studies. The AIPC team, including Prashant Patil, then transferred additional amount to his account to help the son learn an online accounting package. They also assured him all help in securing a job for Dhyanesh after he graduates. “What started as a mission to help Tijare actually became a lesson in societal politics and being true to one’s principles. All through his ordeal, he remains content and looks back on his life with pride. Small houses generally don’t have secrets to hide,” the volunteers said after meeting him. When they were searching for him in the small lanes of Hazaripahad, after receiving directives from state president Mathew Anthony, the activists found the 72-year-old sitting on a tiny cot in his dilapidated house, smiling and welcoming. “Like Tijare remained true to his principles of honesty and integrity, AIPC remains true to its commitment to constitutional values of liberty, equality, and social justice,” they said. TOI’s detailed report had highlighted Tijare’s plight, which had forced him to don the guard’s uniform at a meagre salary of Rs7,000, at NIT Complex in Gokulpeth, where he once acted as trustee. At times, Tijare had even found it hard to feed his family, while many first time gram panchayat members too flaunt their status with luxury cars and costly mobiles. In an era when corporators’ fortunes grow multiple times after election, the fact that the former NMC Standing Committee chairman is living in a dilapidated two-room house is difficult to believe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/professionals-assn-helps-ex-corporator-turned-security-guard/articleshow/77116756.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 23, 2020||Bareilly||Malaria cases go up in Bareilly in monsoon, 853 test positive in July||BAREILLY: With the onset of monsoon and more screening, there has been an increase in the number of malaria cases in Bareilly. According to the latest data compiled by the health department, Bareilly reported 853 cases in July so far - after screening of 14,595 people. Notably, 788 malaria cases were detected between January and May this year. Officials, on Wednesday, said of the 853 cases reported this month, 11 are of plasmodium falciparum (PF), “killer” strain of malaria, while 842 are of plasmodium vivax (PV), a common variant of malaria. District malaria officer D R Singh said, “As the vector-borne disease season has started, the malaria cases have also started to rise. We are screening more people for malaria now.” He added, “Whenever we get any information from health workers that more than two cases of malaria have been detected in a particular village, a team from the district malaria office visits the village for active case surveillance (ACS). Under ACS, our team holds camp and screens all residents with fever using rapid diagnostic kits.” Chief medical officer Dr Vineet Shukla said, “We have been focussing on both Covid-19 and malaria in the district. As Bareilly had reported malaria outbreaks in 2018 and 2019, our strategy has been early detection and prompt treatment.” He added, “As the mosquito breeding increases in the monsoon, the health department along with other departments are ensuring proper cleanliness. We are conducting fogging, anti-larvae spraying and indoor residual spraying in the villages.” Though only 271 people tested positive for malaria in Bareilly in 2017, the number of malaria cases shot up to 37,482 in 2018 and 46,717 in 2019. Claiming that the condition in Bareilly is better than last year, Singh said, “In 2019, Bareilly had reported 12,772 PV cases and 157 PF cases from January to July. During the same period this year, the district has reported 2,460 PV and 90 PF cases. The number of positive cases has declined sharply this year in comparison to 2019.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/malaria-cases-go-up-in-bareilly-in-monsoon-853-test-positive-in-july/articleshow/77112536.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
July 23, 2020||Pune||Man says he is ‘BJP chief’, calls doctors for donation||Pune: A man impersonating state BJP chief and Kothrud MLA Chandrakant Patil on a caller-identification smartphone app made calls to a few doctors in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad urging them to contribute between Rs 10 lakh and Rs 25 lakh to fight Covid-19 virus. The matter came to light when some doctors, who are close to the party, called Patil who told them that he had nothing to do with the calls and suggested that they lodge an FIR with the police. When contacted, Patil told TOI, “Along with the doctors from Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, the person also made calls to others in Mumbai and demanded money. I want to know if some unemployed person is making these calls for money or is he a part of a conspiracy to malign me.” A case of extortion was registered with the Nigdi police on July 17 after a doctor filed a complaint. On Wednesday, the Kothrud police lodged an FIR where Patil was the complainant. In the case registered with the Nigdi police, the caller had demanded Rs 25 lakh from the complainant. The caller told him that he (Patil) had done a tremendous work during the pandemic and the doctor should donate money. “The doctor contacted me through a common contact. I have never demanded money from anyone. I advised him to lodge a complaint immediately,” Patil said. He decided to lodge an FIR with the Kothrud police when a senior party worker's friend from Kothrud received a similar call. “The police found that both the calls were from the same number,” Patil said. The phone instrument used for calls was traced to a coconut vendor in Yerawada who told them an unidentified man in June borrowed his phone for making calls and discarded his original SIM card. “The vendor did not report the missing SIM card to the police,” an officer from the Kothrud police said. Patil said, “It is strange to steal a SIM card and make such calls. The Kothrud police will trace the caller.” Ganesh Jawadwad, senior inspector of Nigdi police, said. “We have registered the offence and are probing the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-says-he-is-bjp-chief-calls-doctors-for-donation/articleshow/77116745.cms||Mihir Tanksale
July 23, 2020||Dehradun||Rain-related incidents kill 28 across U’khand in over a month||Dehradun: At least 28 persons have been killed, 12 injured and six still missing in incidents of natural disasters in the past five weeks in Uttarakhand this year, according to the disaster management department. According to the data accessed from the State Emergency Operation Centre (SEOC), cloudbursts and heavy rainfall claimed most of the lives, killing 26 people, while two others died in landslide incidents across the Himalayan state between June 15 and July 22 this year. Pithoragarh district has been the worst-affected with 14 people killed, nine injured and four missing in rain-related incidents, followed by Dehradun (4), Almora (3), Nainital (3), Pauri (3) and Udham Singh Nagar (1). “Usually, the probability of human loss increases during peak rainy season. The hilly districts remain more vulnerable due to the terrain and topography,” Piyush Rautela, executive director of Disaster Mitigation Management Centre (DMMC), said. Besides loss of human lives, about 55 cattle were also killed in the incidents of natural disasters, and around 80 houses were fully or severely damaged during the same period. In the first two months of monsoon season (June 15 to August 15) last year, 32 people had died and 38 were injured in the state. In 2018, 20 people had died in the first one and a half months of monsoon season in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rain-related-incidents-kill-28-across-ukhand-in-over-a-month/articleshow/77113840.cms||Gaurav Talwar
July 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal lauds students who battled odds||NEW DELHI: Raghav Kumar was financially supported by teachers to complete his studies while Charu Yadav has scored 96% in her Class XII boards after changing her stream in Class XI. Mehjabi, on the other hand, is the first woman in her extended family to complete Class XII. On Wednesday, all of them and 16 others who have just cleared the Class XII boards shared their stories with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. One thing is common among them — despite hardship, they have scored well in the boards. Kejriwal and his deputy and education minister Manish Sisodia met the students at the chief minister’s residence. Kejriwal told them to continue “dreaming big” and “work hard”. Kumar, a student of Government Boys Senior Secondary School, Mundka, has scored 93.4%. “I am from Bihar and used to live alone in Delhi before my mother came to support me. I worked in nearby factories and gave tuitions in spare time in the neighbourhood. My teachers helped me a lot financially,” he said. Yadav, of RPVV Sector 11 Rohini, said she had failed in mathematics in Class IX. “Still I took science and failed in the subject in Class XI again. I almost gave up on studies, but my school principal advised me to shift to humanities,” she said. For both Shameena Khatoon of Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya No. 2 Madipur and Mehjabi of SKV No.1 Sarojini, it was a proud moment when they became the first woman in the family to complete Class XII. Khatoon has scored 95.6%, Mehjabi 94%. Lauding the students’ efforts, Kejriwal said, “Each of you has faced a difficult situation, be it health complications of a family member or financial shortcomings at home, but you did not give up. By sheer determination, you achieved such a good result. The results are proof of your undeterred efforts and dedication towards studies.” Encouraging them to work for the country as they grow up, he said the students proved that everyone, be it rich or poor, wanted their children to study well. “A perception was created that a low-income family does not want their child to study, and want them to work and earn money. But the reality was that the failure on part of the government in ensuring quality education made the low-income families think that sending kids to school would be a waste of time,” Kejriwal pointed out. As the government schools’ condition has improved in Delhi, “the poor man wants his child to study and make a bright future for himself”, the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-lauds-students-who-battled-odds/articleshow/77116121.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Pune||Oxygen concentrators in demand amid bed shortage||Pune: Several families have taken their Covid-19 preparedness a notch higher by investing in portable oxygen concentrators. Pharmacists and surgical equipment suppliers said the unavailability of oxygen beds for Covid-19 positive people and difficulty in finding appropriate medical help for other patients in the city have led to the spike in household demand for oxygen concentrators.  Indu Kumar Yadav, sales and service manager of Green Hills Healthcare that deals in sale and rent of portable oxygen concentrators, said, “The enquiries are coming not only for Covid-19 patients but also those suffering from other ailments as many people aren’t opting for hospitalization. The demand is increasing steadily. Earlier, we used to have two enquiries a day for oxygen concentrator. The number has gone up to 10-12 now.”Pune-based Root Machinery LLP partner Rakesh Pachpor said he has seen the demand mainly from households that have Covid-19 positive patients or those suffering from ailments such as asthma. “While the demand in Pune is only going up now, we have seen maximum demand from Hyderabad. Nearly 60% of our sale is coming from Hyderabad. Depending on the brand, a machine costs anything between Rs50,000 and Rs75,000. We have not seen any hoarding or black marketing of concentrators so far, as there is stock in the market,” he said. A prominent pharmacist said, “We have noticed that people are purchasing oxygen concentrators if their family is large with senior citizens at home. There is a shortage of oxygen beds in the city for Covid-19 patients and people are opting for personal oxygen pumps or concentrators as a backup.” Another pharmacist and surgical equipment supplier said, “The demand is rising steadily, for rental and purchase of concentrators. The concentrators cost anywhere upward of Rs50,000, while rentals are charged at Rs3,000 per month. On speaking to other suppliers, I found that all of them are getting such enquiries and many of them have run out of the rental machines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/oxygen-concentrators-in-demand-amid-bed-shortage/articleshow/77116747.cms||Rujuta Parekh
July 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||3 Rajya Sabha members from Andhra Pradesh take oath, Parimal Nathwani calls in sick||VIJAYAWADA: Three out of four members of the Rajya Sabha from Andhra Pradesh took oath on Wednesday in the presence of its chairman M Venkaiah Naidu. Newly-elected members, Alla Ayodhya Rami Reddy, Pilli Subhash Chandrabose and Mopidevi Venkata Ramana took the oath at a specially convened session of the House. The fourth member, Parimal Nathwani could not make it on Wednesday on health grounds and would take the oath at a later date. With the induction of the three members and one more member-elect to take oath, the strength of the YSRC in the Rajya Sabha would go to six from two. Speaking to media in Delhi after the oath-taking ceremony, YSRC floor leader in Lok Sabha, PV Midhun Reddy, said the party would play an important role in national politics with the enhanced strength. He said the party had started its journey with one member in the Upper House and it has now gone up to six. “The number would further go up in the years to come,” he asserted.  Rami Reddy said they would work hard to strengthen the hands of Y S Jaganmohan Reddy; while Subhaschandra Bose said they would strengthen the leadership of Jaganmohan Reddy both in the state and at the Centre. Venkata Ramana said The parliamentary members would supplement the good work being done by the chief minister,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/3-rs-members-take-oath-nathwani-calls-in-sick/articleshow/77122554.cms||Gopi Dara
July 23, 2020||Vijayawada||3 Rajya Sabha members from Andhra Pradesh take oath, Parimal Nathwani calls in sick||VIJAYAWADA: Three out of four members of the Rajya Sabha from Andhra Pradesh took oath on Wednesday in the presence of its chairman M Venkaiah Naidu. Newly-elected members, Alla Ayodhya Rami Reddy, Pilli Subhash Chandrabose and Mopidevi Venkata Ramana took the oath at a specially convened session of the House. The fourth member, Parimal Nathwani could not make it on Wednesday on health grounds and would take the oath at a later date. With the induction of the three members and one more member-elect to take oath, the strength of the YSRC in the Rajya Sabha would go to six from two. Speaking to media in Delhi after the oath-taking ceremony, YSRC floor leader in Lok Sabha, PV Midhun Reddy, said the party would play an important role in national politics with the enhanced strength. He said the party had started its journey with one member in the Upper House and it has now gone up to six. “The number would further go up in the years to come,” he asserted.  Rami Reddy said they would work hard to strengthen the hands of Y S Jaganmohan Reddy; while Subhaschandra Bose said they would strengthen the leadership of Jaganmohan Reddy both in the state and at the Centre. Venkata Ramana said The parliamentary members would supplement the good work being done by the chief minister,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/3-rs-members-take-oath-nathwani-calls-in-sick/articleshow/77115036.cms||Gopi Dara
July 23, 2020||Pune||PMPML buses to be off twin cities for now||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) will not allow Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Ltd (PMPML) buses to ply in its jurisdiction once the 10-day lockdown ends. “The guidelines for the post-lockdown period are expected to be announced on Thursday and a call will be taken on plying of PMPML buses. However, it is unlikely that the buses will be allowed to ply in PCMC areas due to the growing number of Covid-19 cases,” said municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar. Before the 10-day lockdown, around 85 PMPML buses were plying in the PCMC area on 30 routes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-buses-to-be-off-twin-cities-for-now/articleshow/77116753.cms||Joy Sengupta
July 23, 2020||Amaravati||3 Rajya Sabha members from Andhra Pradesh take oath, Parimal Nathwani calls in sick||VIJAYAWADA: Three out of four members of the Rajya Sabha from Andhra Pradesh took oath on Wednesday in the presence of its chairman M Venkaiah Naidu. Newly-elected members, Alla Ayodhya Rami Reddy, Pilli Subhash Chandrabose and Mopidevi Venkata Ramana took the oath at a specially convened session of the House. The fourth member, Parimal Nathwani could not make it on Wednesday on health grounds and would take the oath at a later date. With the induction of the three members and one more member-elect to take oath, the strength of the YSRC in the Rajya Sabha would go to six from two. Speaking to media in Delhi after the oath-taking ceremony, YSRC floor leader in Lok Sabha, PV Midhun Reddy, said the party would play an important role in national politics with the enhanced strength. He said the party had started its journey with one member in the Upper House and it has now gone up to six. “The number would further go up in the years to come,” he asserted.  Rami Reddy said they would work hard to strengthen the hands of Y S Jaganmohan Reddy; while Subhaschandra Bose said they would strengthen the leadership of Jaganmohan Reddy both in the state and at the Centre. Venkata Ramana said The parliamentary members would supplement the good work being done by the chief minister,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/3-rs-members-take-oath-nathwani-calls-in-sick/articleshow/77122555.cms||Gopi Dara
July 23, 2020||Kolhapur||Doctors told to keep clinics open for non-Covid patients||Kolhapur: The district administration on Wednesday directed private doctors to keep their clinics open for non-Covid patients, following complaints from people, especially from the rural parts, that treatment was not available to them. Some of the clinics have remained shut since the beginning of the lockdown imposed on Monday. The directive was issued to the doctors’ associations to ensure that clinics and out-patient departments (OPDs) remain open for patients suffering from general illnesses. Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana leader Raju Shetti, who met health officials at Ichalkaranji on Wednesday, said that it has been observed that many private clinics are shut, causing great inconvenience to patients. “I will be meeting district collector Daulat Desai and urge him to take stringent action against doctors found keeping their clinics and hospitals shut. Meanwhile, the third day of the lockdown saw most citizens remaining indoors, even as only 30 vehicles were seized as against 62 seized a day earlier on Tuesday. Although some elderly people were seen walking on jogging tracks, youths generally did not venture out to play games in open grounds on Wednesday. Social activist Ramesh More said that this time around, citizens have responded quite well to the lockdown, may be due to rising number of Covid cases in their locality. “During the earlier lockdowns, we had received demands for ration, food packets. However, no such demand has been come in as yet. It may be due to the free days of two days given to citizens for buying essentials,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/doctors-told-to-keep-clinics-open-for-non-covid-patients/articleshow/77116138.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Kolhapur||86 new patients, 3 deaths in Satara||Kolhapur: Satara district has recorded 86 fresh Covid-19 patients and three deaths due to the infection since Tuesday night, taking the total number of cases to 2,642 and the death toll rising to 90. As many as 1,439 people have recovered. There are 1113 active cases.  Karad town recorded three patients, taking the total number of Covid patients to 40 in the town. In Karad, cases were reported in Vidyanagar, Krishna hospital and Karvi Naka. Two people tested positive in Satara town while Satara tehsil has reported fresh cases in Angapur, Degaon Road and Shantinagar. Satara town has 105 Covid-19 patients. As many as 18 areas in the town have been sealed. Jihe had 96 Covid positive patients Godwali village, near Panchgani in Mahabaleshwar, reported four new Covid patients, which included two teenagers. A 52-year-old man from Panchgani has tested positive for Covid-19. Wai tehsil recorded 13 patients, which included six patients from Pasrani village. Two teenagers are among the fresh cases in Pasrani. Parkhandi village has five patients, including an 11-year-old boy. Two patients were also traced in Wai.  Platan, Koregaon and Khatav are among the other tehsil where fresh case have been reported. The deceased include a 53-year-old man from Karad, a 77-year-old man from Ahire village in Khandal and a 72-year-old man from Satara town||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/86-new-patients-3-deaths-in-satara/articleshow/77116130.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Lucknow||UP eyes fifth Guinness record in plantation||LUCKNOW: UP has its eyes set on a world record in plantation again. If it gets through, this would be the state’s fifth Guinness record in plantation. On July 28, the state would plant around 240 species of trees in eight districts at the same time, aiming to create a world record of “maximum species of trees planted at multiple locations at the same time”. Mission director, Plantation 2020, Mukesh Kumar, said, “As per Guinness rules, every site should have different species.” The eight sites (districts) chosen, therefore, will have 30 different species each. Since, 12 plants of every specie would be planted in a district, every district would get 360 trees. 240 different tree species will be planted in districtsTotal 2,880 plants of 240 different species would be planted on the day, at the same time, at different locations in districts chosen. The districts are Lucknow, Sitapur, Barabanki, Ayodhya, Meerut, Gautam Budh Nagar, Banda and Chitrakoot. And, 240 species selected for plantation include both popular varieties and the ones not commonly known like Tuno, Nisinda, Toothbrush, Jarul, Graveyard plant; Chamroth and others. The objective of the exercise, besides creating a world record, is also to add to state’s biodiversity and make people aware of various tree species, that also includes the endemic ones. This would be over and above the 25.8cr trees that were planted on July 5 in UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-eyes-5th-guinness-record-in-plantation/articleshow/77117010.cms||Neha Shukla
July 23, 2020||Aurangabad||Prior suicide, former sarpanch blames private money lender in video||Aurangabad: A former sarpanch from Akhatgaon of Khultabad tehsil in the district has committed suicide while blaming a private money lender and his accomplice for harassment in a video. Minutes before taking the extreme step, Radhakrishna alias Popatrao Bodkhe (50) shared the video blaming the duo before hanging himself to a neem tree in his ancestral farm. In over six-minute-long video, Bodkhe claimed that about six years back he took Rs 2.5 lakh from the private money lender and ended up paying him about Rs 50 lakh. “I was doing well in contractorship, but after I took a loan of about Rs 2.5 lakh from the private money lender, he kept multiplying the money and I ended up paying Rs 50 lakh, but the harassment continued,” Radhakrishna said in his video. He also claimed of giving money running into several lakhs by selling off their farm as well as house and making an on account transfer to the accused’s bank account, but still the suspect continued to harass him. As per the complaint lodged by the deceased’s 22-year old son Machindra, the suspect duo came to their house a few days back and publicly humiliated Radhakrishna while seeking back the given money. “Unable to bear humiliation, my father started telling the family members that he would commit suicide,” said Machindra in his complaint. Based on his complaint, Khultabad police have booked the duo on the charges of abetment of suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/prior-suicide-former-sarpanch-blames-private-money-lender-in-video/articleshow/77116177.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 23, 2020||Delhi||Screening begins for vaccine volunteers in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Health screening of people who volunteered for the trial of Covaxin — India’s indigenous vaccine for Covid-19 — has started. Delhi-based Dr Dangs Lab, which has been selected as the central lab for human clinical trials of Covaxin, said it has already started receiving samples from 50 to 100 subjects per day from various trial sites for safety testing. “We will be increasing operations as per assigned timelines to cover 12 sites across the country over this month,” Dr Navin Dang, founder of Dr Dangs Lab, said. Covaxin has been developed and manufactured by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research. It is currently undergoing phase I trial, during which 375 people will be vaccinated to assess safety of the vaccine and to calculate the dose range. Dr Sanjay K Rai, a professor in the community medicine department at AIIMS Delhi, who is heading the trials at the institute, said health screening is being done to rule out any pre-existing illness and to study the immunity profile of volunteers. “Those who have no pre-existing illness or any sign of existing antibody against Covid-19 will be given Covaxin. We are planning to give the first few doses of the vaccine on Friday,” he said. Apart from AIIMS Delhi, 11 other hospitals, including AIIMS Patna and PGI Rohtak, are conducting trials for Covaxin. All these centres will be sending samples of the study subjects to Dr Dangs Lab. “Stringent quality norms are being followed as mandated by regulatory authorities. Our lab has renowned experts in each field who are working tirelessly and collectively to provide quality and timely results to fulfil the imminent need of an effective and safe Covid-19 vaccine,” the Lab said in a statement. Dr Dangs lab is processing all samples for screening and safety for the various phases of this clinical trial, whereas all the efficacy studies will be performed in NIV (Pune).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/screening-begins-for-vaccine-volunteers/articleshow/77116167.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Lucknow||Active cases go past 3,000, 310 more test +ve in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: The ‘active’ Covid-19 cases in city zoomed past 3,000 mark on Wednesday as 310 more people — highest in the state — tested positive for novel coronavirus in 24 hours. Seven health workers and three employees of Lucknow University registrar office were among the new cases, while others were from Indiranagar, Gomtinagar, Mahanagar, Aashiana, Sarojinagar and parts of Old City. The Covid case count in Lucknow rose to 4,813, of which 77% have been reported in July. The covid surge in city saw 500 cases were added every two days in the last week while first 500 cases in city were recorded over 89 days. In fact, barring July 9 and 21, Lucknow’s daily case tally has been highest in state since July 8. LU’s administrative block was closed for 48 hours for sanitisation after a Covid-19 case was detected. Earlier, two employees of registrar office tested positive on July 14 and the registrar himself was diagnosed with the disease on Sunday. The office reopened on Wednesday but was closed soon as news arrived that three more employees, who got themselves tested after developing fever, had tested positive. “The entire administrative block was sealed for two days with immediate effect for sanitization,” said LU spokesperson Durgesh Srivastava. Meanwhile, district administration has asked non-covid private hospitals to arrange 15 ambulances by pooling resources for shifting patients who test positive after admission to Covid hospitals. The private hospitals have also been asked to install CCTV cameras and public address systems to inform visitors about covid control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/active-cases-go-past-3k-310-more-test-ve/articleshow/77117043.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Tantrik awarded life term for sodomizing boy||HYDERABAD: Nampally court on Wednesday awarded life imprisonment to a black magician for sodomizing a nine-year-old boy at Kanchanbagh in 2018. The boy’s mother, who is the alleged lover of the magician, was sentenced to 13 years imprisonment. Additional metropolitan sessions judge Suneetha Kunchala convicted the black magician (38), under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, sections 307 (attempt to murder), 377 (unnatural offence), 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement), 497 (adultery) and 506 (intimidation) of IPC. Similarly, the victim’s mother was convicted under the sections 307 (attempt to murder), 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement), 506 (intimidation) of IPC. Besides life imprisonment, the black magician was also awarded various other punishments under different sections. The incident came to the light when the victim’s father returned to India in 2018. He noticed the unnatural behaviour of the child, who used to cry and shiver a lot. On enquiry, the father came to know that his wife entered into an illicit relationship with a black magician, who lured her by saying that she and her son required spiritual assistance. When the boy objected, they tortured him. They used to attack him with blade, hot water, made him kneel down naked during nights, poured candle wax on his private parts and tortured him through various other means. Additional public prosecutor K Pratap Reddy said that a mobile phone and a tablet used by the convicts gave crucial evidence for the prosecution to prove the offence. As both the convicts used to record the torture it became easy for the prosecution to prove the case. “When the black magician used to sodomize or torture the victim, the convicts used to record it on their gadgets. These recordings were played in the court while presenting the evidence,” Pratap Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tantrik-awarded-life-term-for-raping-boy/articleshow/77116754.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Aurangabad||Umbrellas advised for following social distancing in Latur||Aurangabad: Latur district administration has appealed to people to use umbrellas while moving around in public places so as to maintain social distancing. In a latest order, Latur district collector G Shrikant has recommended the novel measure of using umbrellas. “Use of umbrellas while venturing out for shopping can serve as an additional safety measure. Umbrellas will ensure social distancing by default and, therefore, they are highly recommended for public use,” he said. The appeal from district administration has gone down well with many people from Latur. Ramesh Patil, a youth from Chakur taluka, said that several citizens have started using umbrellas in response to the collector’s appeal. “Umbrella is available in every household and can be used as an effective tool for following social distancing. Two persons using umbrellas automatically get separated from each other by desired distance which helps in containing the spread of the disease,” he said. Among other novel measures, Latur district administration has also encouraged the use of bicycles or walking while going out for buying essentials. Latur district, which is under fortnight long curfew till July 30, has reported 1,227 confirmed cases of Covid-19 till Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/umbrellas-advised-for-following-social-distancing-in-latur/articleshow/77116170.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Maoist top gun back on state intel radar||HYDERABAD: Maoist top gun Bhaskar alias Mailarapu Adellu, who has been active in Adilabad, is now the most wanted for anti-Maoist intelligence agencies of Telangana. Bhaskar, 46, who is currently district committee secretary of Adilabad and also a member of Telangana state committee of the outlawed CPI (Maoist), has been actively involved in regrouping. Bhaskar, a native of Pochera, Adilabad, always carries an AK 47 with him. The rebel, who is of lean built, carries a reward of Rs 20 lakh on his head. Sources in Telangana intelligence department said, Bhaskar has been operating on the banks of Pranahita river. “On paper, there are 12 Maoist committees, but actually there are just two. Apart from eight to 10 top leaders, all middle-level and lower rung cadre are recruited from Chhattisgarh,” a senior IPS official said. “Action team is on paper now. Their abilities to act against a political or police target is remote. K Raji Reddy is not part of the team though his name is doing rounds,” another senior intelligence officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/maoist-top-gun-back-on-state-intel-radar/articleshow/77116192.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
July 23, 2020||Nagpur||Assault threats, agent tag force Kamptee doctors to shut clinics||Nagpur: Finding themselves at the receiving end of patients, administration and anti-social elements, many doctors in Kamptee have closed down their private clinics even as the cantonment town has turned out to be a major Covid hotspot. Doctors have complained of harassment, assault threats and being labelled as “agents” for referring suspected patients to government hospitals for Covid-19 tests. The sudden shutting down of many private clinics amid rising cases of viral fever, typhoid, cough and cold — all Covid-like symptoms — has increased the load of those staying open. Doctors also said it is difficult to convince patients in Kamptee about the Covid threat they face. General practitioner Dr Naqeeb Ahmed said, “Every day, anti-social elements are issuing assault threats to doctors who recommend Covid test to suspected patients of cough, cold or fever. People here have tagged us as agents of the government. They claim were are making Rs8000 to Rs10,000 on each referral. Some are spreading rumours that Kamptee doctors have been given a target of at least 500 covid patients,” he said. Dr Ahmed said patients are also cooperating and refusing to believe if there is anything called coronavirus. “We also don’t know how to handle them. They are not ready to wear masks too and when pointed out they argue with us,” he said. Dr Waseem Akhtar, who practices near Kalamna Road in Banu Bi Colony, said daily he is getting one patient with oxygen saturation dipped to danger level. “Most of the clinics have closed. I am also planning to shut down. Patient with dip in oxygen saturation level are at high risky of Covid19 but not many are keen to get tested,” he said. Dr Akhtar said his patient load had doubled in the last 10 days. “Patients of other doctors are coming to me,” he said. As the situation is getting grimmer, doctors are worried about their families too. “But we are doctors. We can’t run away. Yet, I shut my OPD this evening as I was exhausted,” Dr Ahmed said. Dr Sarfaraz Ahmed, who practices in Nagpur and has been roped in by Nagpur Municipal Corporation on several occasions to create awareness among people, said he has been advising fellow doctors to not get hassled. “I have been telling them to help save lives. This is an adversity and we have to fight the disease together. People need us. Where can non-Covid patients go? Also, who will tell patients if they need to be tested for Covid. If all shut down, the disease will spread faster,” he said. A source in a government hospital at Kamptee where covid tests are undertaken said there has been a sudden increase in the number of patients turning up for tests since last one week. Apart from the close contacts even those who are having symptoms like cough, cold or fever are also turning up to get their tests done. Almost half of the persons getting tested come after getting the symptoms. On Wednesday, out of the 18 who reached the hospital, four tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/assault-threats-agent-tag-force-kamptee-doctors-to-shut-clinics/articleshow/77116191.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 23, 2020||Aurangabad||4 held with firearms in Jalna||Aurangabad: Jalna police has arrested four suspects on Wednesday and seized four country-made firearms, half a dozen live rounds and an SUV that was reportedly used for procuring the ammunition. The seized firearms, which are a lookalike of imported firearms, has stunned the police authorities who are now mooting to reach to the roots of this supply chain. The seizure has resulted in the arrest of four accused and unearthing yet another supply chain of illegal firearms in the steel city of Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/4-held-with-firearms-in-jalna/articleshow/77116185.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 23, 2020||Lucknow||Covid claims 6 lives in Lucknow, toll now 63||LUCKNOW: The Covid-19 surge in city is now causing spike in deaths too. Six patients lost the battle to novel coronavirus on Wednesday, taking the \city toll to 63 since the outbreak in March. Of the total Covid casualties, over 50% have been reported in last 11 days with an average of three deaths daily since July 12. The corona death toll of six on Wednesday is the highest so far, one more than the five on Tuesday. Among the six patients who succumbed, three were undergoing treatment at Era’s Lucknow Medical College (ELMC), two at King George’s Medical University (KGMU) and one at Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences (RMLIMS). All six patients had comorbidities and died of respiratory failure. One was admitted at late stage of the disease. A 61-year-old woman, also suffering from cancer and diabetes, died in KGMU due to respiratory failure. Brought in late stage, she was admitted with acute respiratory distress and died within seven hours of admission. A 46-year-old Golaganj resident admitted on July 14, also died in KGMU. He had high blood pressure besides liver and kidney disease. An 82-year-old man, father of a journalist, who was in septic shock when referred from SPM Civil hospital to ELMC on July 20, succumbed to infection. He had diabetes and had developed pneumonia after infection. A 50-year-old man from Noor Badi, admitted after a paralytic attack, also died in ELMC. The third death in the college was of a 65-year-old woman who had diabetes and was admitted in a critical condition. A 72-year-old kidney patient died at RMLIMS after battling the virus for five days. Besides, a patient from Kanpur, who was under treatment in KGMU for gunshot injury and tested positive post-surgery, died of cardiopulmonary arrest triggered by the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-surge-triggers-spikein-casualties-6-die-in-a-day/articleshow/77117062.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Mangaluru||Shortage of Chinese spares hits broadband||MANGALURU: As the demand for broadband connectivity continues to rise, service providers are hit due to a shortage in spares and rising prices. Consignments from China are reportedly subjected to thorough scrutiny at ports and airports, leading to huge holdups and delays in clearing goods. Sandesh D Poojary, managing director, DeeNet Services Private Limited said, “There is no doubt the demand for broadband connections has only been rising since the lockdown. However, operators are faced with several challenges. Items such as the optical network unit and splitters are mostly imported from China. We are already facing shortage, and according to an estimate, more than 300 new connections have been put on hold in the district. Due to heavy rainfall and trees falling, restoring broadband connections has become a Herculean task amid a shortage of material and men. The prices for spares has also increased.” Sandesh said ever since the lockdown, data usage per individual has doubled and the number of calls related to connectivity issues is on the rise during monsoon. Employees, especially from bordering areas of Kerala, cannot attend work and since the workload is high, training new staff is not feasible, he added. A cable operator and broadband service provider from Jeppu said there is an increase in demand for temporary connections by 30-35% and at the same time the cost of items such as routers has increased by 30%. Though Indian parts are available, they are expensive. The problem is not limited to broadband connections. Businessmen have noticed a shortage in supply and surge in price of all IT- related products. Mangaluru-based Sudo Tech partner Ram Girish said as the demand for laptops is on the rise, the industry is faced with supply issues. Products are arriving, but not at the expected pace and the challenge now is meeting the increased demand. We are hoping that the government will give a boost to the production of Indian laptops, spares, and other electronic gadgets, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/shortage-of-chinese-spares-hits-broadband/articleshow/77113918.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
July 23, 2020||Nagpur||2 stab each other with same knife at Kalamb, both die||YAVATMAL: In a bizarre incident, two youths stabbed each other resulting in death of one on the spot, while the other died at Government Medical College on Wednesday. According to station house officer of Kalamb Vijay Rathod, one Ashish Gaikwad had loaned Rs30,000 to one Vishvajeet Burbure (30), a resident of Tirzada village. Ashish had asked his driver Vaibhav alias Doma Raut (27), a resident of Babhulgaon, to recover the money from Burbure. In a bid to recover the money, verbal duel had taken place between Doma and Burbure earlier. On Wednesday, Vishvajeet came to Ashish’s house where he had an altercation with Doma. In a fit of rage, Vishvajeet stabbed Doma with a knife. Though injured, Doma managed to snatch the knife from Vishvajeet and stabbed him too. Vishvajeet died on the spot, while Doma was rushed to the GMCH where he died during treatment. Vishvajeet’s father filed an FIR at Kalamb police station. PSO Rathod and his team reached the spot and started investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-stab-each-other-with-same-knife-at-kalamb-both-die/articleshow/77116765.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||A rollercoaster ride finally takes YSRC’s Mopidevi Venkata Ramana to Parliament||GUNTUR: Mopidevi Venkata Ramana, who hails from the fisherman community, has had a long tumultous public life. The story of Ramana, who took oath as member of Rajya Sabha on Wednesday, is incredible by any measure as no one from this Most Backward Community (MBC) had entered any of the houses of Parliament from the state. Ramana rose to the Upper House in the Parliament from the lowest peoples’s house-mandal parishad, a local body. Interestingly, he has served all the houses, from mandal parishad, zilla parishad, legislative assembly and legislative council before entering Rajya Sabha. He began his political journey as a Youth Congress activist three decades ago. He got elected as Nizampatnam mandal parishad president in the direct elections held for the local body in 1987. After seeing him winning the election during the then TDP rule, the Congress party picked him up as candidate for assembly polls in 1989. Although he lost his maiden battle by a margin of mere 54 votes, Congress retained him as candidate in 1994 elections. However, he lost his second successive battle spreading clouds over his political career. Thanks to the backing of Congress big leaders like YSR and Nedurumalli Janardhan Reddy, Ramana again secured a ticket and finally entered the assembly in 1999. With Congress remaining in the opposition, he played a key role in fighting TDP’s policies. After winning the 2004 elections, YSR inducted him into the cabinet. He won the cabinet berth after YSR won the second term for Congress in 2009. He continued in Rosaiah and Kiran Kumar Reddy’s cabinets. Ramana was the first cabinet minister to have been arrested by the CBI in connection with Jagan’s disproportionate assets case in 2012. The arrest prompted him to quit the cabinet and the Congress party. He contested assembly elections from Repalle in 2014 and 2019 and lost on both occasions. Surprisingly, Jagan inducted him into the cabinet despite losing the assembly battle by a large margin in the YSRC wave in 2019 as a reward for his loyalty. Subsequently, he was made a member of legislative council. Soon after deciding to scrap the legislative council, the chief minister gave Ramana a surprise gift, Rajya Sabha ticket. “I have never dreamt of reaching this level. Today is the biggest day in my life. My leader Jagan has given me this opportunity to enter the Parliament,” said Ramana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/a-rollercoaster-ride-finally-takes-ysrcs-mopidevi-to-parliament/articleshow/77122852.cms||Samdani MN
July 23, 2020||Vijayawada||A rollercoaster ride finally takes YSRC’s Mopidevi Venkata Ramana to Parliament||GUNTUR: Mopidevi Venkata Ramana, who hails from the fisherman community, has had a long tumultous public life. The story of Ramana, who took oath as member of Rajya Sabha on Wednesday, is incredible by any measure as no one from this Most Backward Community (MBC) had entered any of the houses of Parliament from the state. Ramana rose to the Upper House in the Parliament from the lowest peoples’s house-mandal parishad, a local body. Interestingly, he has served all the houses, from mandal parishad, zilla parishad, legislative assembly and legislative council before entering Rajya Sabha. He began his political journey as a Youth Congress activist three decades ago. He got elected as Nizampatnam mandal parishad president in the direct elections held for the local body in 1987. After seeing him winning the election during the then TDP rule, the Congress party picked him up as candidate for assembly polls in 1989. Although he lost his maiden battle by a margin of mere 54 votes, Congress retained him as candidate in 1994 elections. However, he lost his second successive battle spreading clouds over his political career. Thanks to the backing of Congress big leaders like YSR and Nedurumalli Janardhan Reddy, Ramana again secured a ticket and finally entered the assembly in 1999. With Congress remaining in the opposition, he played a key role in fighting TDP’s policies. After winning the 2004 elections, YSR inducted him into the cabinet. He won the cabinet berth after YSR won the second term for Congress in 2009. He continued in Rosaiah and Kiran Kumar Reddy’s cabinets. Ramana was the first cabinet minister to have been arrested by the CBI in connection with Jagan’s disproportionate assets case in 2012. The arrest prompted him to quit the cabinet and the Congress party. He contested assembly elections from Repalle in 2014 and 2019 and lost on both occasions. Surprisingly, Jagan inducted him into the cabinet despite losing the assembly battle by a large margin in the YSRC wave in 2019 as a reward for his loyalty. Subsequently, he was made a member of legislative council. Soon after deciding to scrap the legislative council, the chief minister gave Ramana a surprise gift, Rajya Sabha ticket. “I have never dreamt of reaching this level. Today is the biggest day in my life. My leader Jagan has given me this opportunity to enter the Parliament,” said Ramana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/a-rollercoaster-ride-finally-takes-ysrcs-mopidevi-to-parliament/articleshow/77115092.cms||Samdani MN
July 23, 2020||Amaravati||A rollercoaster ride finally takes YSRC’s Mopidevi Venkata Ramana to Parliament||GUNTUR: Mopidevi Venkata Ramana, who hails from the fisherman community, has had a long tumultous public life. The story of Ramana, who took oath as member of Rajya Sabha on Wednesday, is incredible by any measure as no one from this Most Backward Community (MBC) had entered any of the houses of Parliament from the state. Ramana rose to the Upper House in the Parliament from the lowest peoples’s house-mandal parishad, a local body. Interestingly, he has served all the houses, from mandal parishad, zilla parishad, legislative assembly and legislative council before entering Rajya Sabha. He began his political journey as a Youth Congress activist three decades ago. He got elected as Nizampatnam mandal parishad president in the direct elections held for the local body in 1987. After seeing him winning the election during the then TDP rule, the Congress party picked him up as candidate for assembly polls in 1989. Although he lost his maiden battle by a margin of mere 54 votes, Congress retained him as candidate in 1994 elections. However, he lost his second successive battle spreading clouds over his political career. Thanks to the backing of Congress big leaders like YSR and Nedurumalli Janardhan Reddy, Ramana again secured a ticket and finally entered the assembly in 1999. With Congress remaining in the opposition, he played a key role in fighting TDP’s policies. After winning the 2004 elections, YSR inducted him into the cabinet. He won the cabinet berth after YSR won the second term for Congress in 2009. He continued in Rosaiah and Kiran Kumar Reddy’s cabinets. Ramana was the first cabinet minister to have been arrested by the CBI in connection with Jagan’s disproportionate assets case in 2012. The arrest prompted him to quit the cabinet and the Congress party. He contested assembly elections from Repalle in 2014 and 2019 and lost on both occasions. Surprisingly, Jagan inducted him into the cabinet despite losing the assembly battle by a large margin in the YSRC wave in 2019 as a reward for his loyalty. Subsequently, he was made a member of legislative council. Soon after deciding to scrap the legislative council, the chief minister gave Ramana a surprise gift, Rajya Sabha ticket. “I have never dreamt of reaching this level. Today is the biggest day in my life. My leader Jagan has given me this opportunity to enter the Parliament,” said Ramana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/a-rollercoaster-ride-finally-takes-ysrcs-mopidevi-to-parliament/articleshow/77122853.cms||Samdani MN
July 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Uber starts installing safety screen in cabs||NEW DELHI: App-based cab aggregator Uber has started installing safety cockpits or safety screens in 20,000 of its cabs. “Uber, which pioneered safety cockpits in India with their installation in UberMedic cars to transport frontline healthcare workers, has already fitted them in 8,000 cars,” the company said in a statement. The cost of installation is borne by Uber, and it comes free of cost to drivers, it said. Uber said the safety cockpit is a protective ceiling-to-floor transparent plastic screen installed between the passenger and the driver, which enables social distancing within the confines of a car and acts as a safeguard to prevent droplet and aerosol transmission. “At Uber, we are constantly defining safety standards for transportation and taking all possible precautions to ensure the safety of both riders and drivers,” Pavan Vaish, head of central operations, Uber India and South Asia, said. Uber said it has sourced more than three million face masks, 1.2 million shower caps for Moto riders, 2,00,000 bottles of disinfectants and as many bottles of sanitisers for free distribution to all its driver-partners in India. Uber has recently launched a set of safety measures, such as Go Online Checklist and a mandatory mask policy for both riders and drivers, pre-trip mask verification selfies for drivers, mandatory driver education around Covid-19 related safety protocols and an updated cancellation policy where both riders and drivers can cancel trips if they don’t feel safe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/uber-starts-installing-safety-screen-in-cabs/articleshow/77116181.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Aurangabad||Anganwadi worker posts nude pic of project officer in WhatsApp group||Aurangabad: A probe has been launched by Shivaji Nagar police into an incident where a woman anganwadi worker posted a nude photograph of a male project officer in the official WhatsApp group — ICDS Urban — formed by the women and child welfare department. The group was formed to send all official communications with women anganwadi workers associated with the Integrated Child Development Services Scheme in Beed. “This group has women anganwadi workers from Beed city, Gevrai, Dhatur and Majalagaon. As per the complaint lodged by a group of Anganwadi workers, the nude picture of the male project officer was posted in the group was posted by the suspect before she left the group,” a police officer said. “The members of the group downloaded the photograph considering it to be another communication from the authorities. Surprisingly, the project officer whose picture was posted is also part of the group,” he added. Police inspector Sunil Birla, while confirming about receiving the complaint, told TOI, “The photograph has been posted by a woman anganwadi worker. We are probing as from where did she got the picture of the project officer and what was her intention.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/anganwadi-worker-posts-nude-pic-of-project-officer-in-whatsapp-group/articleshow/77116190.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 23, 2020||Nagpur||Sr fire officer tests +ve, none from office quarantined||Nagpur: With a senior fire officer testing coronavirus positive, the NMC’s fire and emergency services department is staring at an aggravated manpower crisis. As many 26 officials from the department on Wednesday underwent Covid-19 test, while 45 will be tested on Thursday, confirmed a senior official. Surprisingly, the NMC reportedly skirted the quarantine guidelines and asked other staffers to continue with their routine work with an advise to take due precautions. “We have been advised to reduce our movement and not to mix with people,” a group of employees told TOI. The staffers have been instructed to follow physical distance from outsiders visiting the office. Besides, they have also been advised to avoid contact with close family members. Sources said the already short-staffed department faces the prospects of a severe manpower crisis if more personnel test Covid positive. Sources said against the sanctioned posts of around 600 personnel, the department is functioning with only 206. Moreover, delay in carrying out necessary medical tests may result in complete collapse of the functioning of the department, they said. The senior official who tested positive is in-charge of two teams entrusted to clean wells. Being posted in headquarters, he was also actively involved in preparing many joint reports along with officers from other nine fire stations. Apart from this, the department’s storeroom is also there and even mechanics too work there. Tests were conducted at Pachpaoli quarantine centre. The first lot of reports is expected on Thursday, a senior official said. Meanwhile, uneasy calm prevailed among the personnel working in the department after one of their senior colleagues tested positive for coronavirus. Fire personnel said with their colleague testing positive, they were informed that the NMC’s health department will conduct rapid antigen tests of all those who came in his contact on Tuesday afternoon. As instructed, all personnel working in the headquarters and also in Civil Lines station remained present for testing only to be told by the health department that test would not conducted due to some emergency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sr-fire-officer-tests-ve-none-from-office-quarantined/articleshow/77116199.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: Kondhwa consumers fume over ‘hefty’ electricity bills||PUNE: Several residents from localities in Kondhwa have complained about the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) presenting them “inflated power bills” not matching with the pattern of their domestic consumption. The bills for the period between May and July, payable by August 9, have left the residents from NIBM and Salunke Vihar roads, Kausarbaugh, Pargenagar, Undri and Mohammadwadi furious and shaken. An MSEDCL official at the St Mary’s sub division requested anonymity and said, “We are creating awareness about how the power bills are not inflated. We did not issue bills to from April to June because meter readings could not be taken due to the lockdown. Instead, we sent minimum bills on the basis of power consumed from January to March.” He said, “We took meter readings in July and issued proper bills on the basis of units consumed. Consumers can make complaints on our portal and toll free number. They have the option to pay bills in three instalments.” However, there have been instances of people with three- or four-member families being billed for anything in the range of Rs25,000 to Rs40,000. NIBM road resident Shailesh Sardesai, who got a Rs40,000 bill, said, “Even if the MSEDCL has presumed higher domestic usage during lockdown, residential units cannot possibly match the levels of power consumption by industrial units.” He said, “My power bill shows my consumption higher by 700 units compared to the corresponding period last year. For 300-plus units consumption, one is charged the incremental rate at about Rs12 per unit as per the tariff determined by the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC). But any technicality that is so far removed from reality is highly questionable. MERC needs to consider whether any housing unit can generate five figure bills.” Bhavin Shah, who got a Rs25,000 bill, said, “I cannot understand their calculation. They have not considered payments made during last three months.” “Perhaps MERC and MSEDCL find no difference between a residential areas and an industrial zone and have decided to charge us at par,” said Jasjit Kaur Ahluwalia, another resident who got a Rs19,000 bill. “We are a retired couple,” she said. Another resident, Shaonlee Bose Ganguli, termed the bills as a “new pandemic” that is gripping everyone at a time when people are trying hard to ensure livelihood. “A six-fold increase in power bill across households indicates a larger problem. Opportunistic pricing was not expected from MSEDCL.” Nagarik Adhikar Manch president Sameer Pathan said, “Many shops remained closed because of the lockdown, but their owners have received maximum instead of minimum bills. We have filed complaints with MSEDCL. But nothing has happened.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kondhwa-consumers-fume-over-hefty-electricity-bills/articleshow/77116767.cms||Asseem Shaikh
July 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat govt moves SC against Pak citizen’s acquittal||AHMEDABAD: The state government has approached the Supreme Court challenging the acquittal of a Pakistani citizen in a fake currency case after Pakistan high commission moved the Gujarat high court seeking custody of its citizen and compensation of Rs 20 lakh for his alleged ‘illegal detention’ in India. The case involves a Karachi resident Sajjad Vora, who had come to meet his relatives in Surat in 2016. On their way to Mumbai, Vora was caught allegedly with fake Indian currency by Surat railway police. He was prosecuted and acquitted by a court in Surat in 2018. In July 2019, the HC too confirmed his acquittal. Vora requested the Foreigners Regional Registration Office (FRRO) Mumbai for exit visa, but he was asked to bring an NOC from Surat police, which he did not get. Vora approached the high court in June requesting for directions to the FRRO to grant him an exit visa. A month later, Pakitan high commission filed habeas corpus petition for his custody claiming that he was being illegally detained in India against his will even after his acquittal. When the HC inquired with the state government, it told the HC on Tuesday that it has filed an appeal in the apex court on Monday, and hence Vora may not be allowed to return to Pakistan. The bench of Justice Sonia Gokani and Justice N V Anjaria questioned the state government as to whether it has any other issue in granting NOC, in the event the appeal before the SC does not sail through. To this the government lawyer told the court that there is no other objection as on date in granting certificate to Vora. The state governemnt told the HC that the decision to approach the SC was taken last year. On the other hand, the Centre told the HC that it would take about a week to prepare Vora’s exit visa if the Surat police grants him NOC. The central government also said that looking at the peculiarity of this case, it may even decide to waive a week’s time to process Vora’s exit visa, but it is subject to issuance of NOC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-moves-sc-against-pak-citizens-acquittal/articleshow/77116201.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Nagpur||Lonar Lake colour change not due to pollution but summer heat: HC||NAGPUR: Ending all speculations on change in colour of the water in Lonar crater lake, Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Wednesday noted that the phenomenon occurred due to algae and bacteria changing their colour on account of the summer heat. Earlier, it was speculated that the colour change took place due to increasing pollution. But reports submitted by Neeri, Pune-based Agarkar Research Institute (AGI), and Geological Survey of India (GSI) in the HC have come up with similar findings on the subject. “The common conclusion is that the change of water colour occurred due to natural reasons. The factor responsible for it is ‘dunaliella algae’ and ‘halo bacteria’. These organisms released a substance called ‘carotenoid’ under stress conditions. Since it’s colour is pink, the lake water changed into that colour. Summer heat led to higher pH value that cause stressed conditions in these organisms and led to release of pink substance,” a division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Anil Kilor said. While directing all three agencies to distribute copies of the reports to respondents and stakeholders, the judges asked all of them to come up with suggestions during the next hearing. While hearing a PIL by Kirti Nipankar and others through counsel Anand Parchure, the judges issued a series of directives to the respondents for preservation, conservation and development of the historic lake, formed by a meteorite. They formed an ad hoc nodal authority under Buldhana collector Suman Chandra as recommended by senior counsel Chandrashekhar Kaptan along with Parchure and other lawyers. They had suggested that such an authority should take care of all linked issues to provide an umbrella for all agencies working for the lake’s development. “The collector should oversee, supervise, undertake and ensure completion of all works related to the lake. All agencies involved in the issue should move their proposals through the nodal authority and also sort out problems for completing various works assigned to them. Detailed scope of collector’s authority to act as nodal office would be spelt out in the next hearing,” the HC said. While adjourning the hearing till August 19, the judges asked collector Suman Chandra to ensure there is no open defecation in the lake’s vicinity. “The forest department in collaboration with the PWD should erect fencing at crucial points near the lake to stop citizens from using the area for open defecation. The police superintendent should deploy personnel in morning and evening to deter citizens from entering the vicinity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lonar-lake-colour-change-not-due-to-pollution-but-summer-heat-hc/articleshow/77116774.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 23, 2020||Vadodara||Man blackmailed by social media ‘friend’, accomplices||Vadodara: A 28-year-old man living in Gotri was blackmailed by a woman, whom he had befriended around three months ago on social media and her two accomplices on Tuesday. The trio robbed the victim Darshil Patel of his mobile phone and gold jewellery worth Rs 25,000 by threatening to share his and the woman Salma alias Puja Saiyed’s photos and videos. The three accused including Saiyed agreed to take Darshil’s belongings as he did not have Rs 2 lakh which they had demanded. According to Darshil, Saiyed and he had decided to meet at her rented home at Manjusar in Savli taluka on Tuesday afternoon. At her home, while they were chatting, two others _ Panchal and Patel _ barged inside and started taking photos and video of the couple on their mobile phones. While Panchal identified himself as a scribe of a vernacular newspaper, Patel said that he was Saiyed’s brother. Panchal and Patel thrashed Darshil and later asked him to shell out Rs 2 lakh. Darshil told police that he was frightened then, so he gave away his mobile phone and gold ring to them. The accused asked him to come with the money near Manjusar GIDC on Tuesday evening. Reaching home, Darshil told the incident to his friends and they went with him to the GIDC. When they reached there, Saiyed came to collect the money in an auto-rickshaw. Suspecting that she too was involved, they took her to Bhadarva police station and lodged an offence of extortion, robbery and criminal conspiracy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-blackmailed-by-social-media-friend-accomplices/articleshow/77114864.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Surat||Check traffic gyaan online before fines begin||Surat: Answer these questions truthfully and check your traffic gyaan — 1. At least wear chappals while driving a car. 2. Switch on headlights of your two-wheeler at night. If you are done with the quiz, read on to know why it is important to know how you have fared. City traffic police to conduct an online voluntary test on Sunday as part of its ‘iFollow’ campaign for traffic rules awareness in which knowledge of traffic rules will be tested. Participants will have to register on http://suratcitytrafficpolice.com website and registration is open till Saturday. Before registering those willing to participate can refer an online booklet available on the website. Now, if you think wearing chappals while driving your car is cool, then think again as not wearing shoes while driving a four-wheeler is a traffic rule violation. Also keeping headlights of two-wheelers off during daytime is a traffic rule offence. Shocked? There are many such rules that many vehicle users are unaware of. The test will be conducted from 12 in the afternoon to 2pm and will be of 50 marks. The question paper will have 50 questions in the multiple-choice question (MCQ) format. The test will be in Gujarati and English language. “Along with reference book, we will put various questions and their answers for participants. Out of options candidate will have to select the correct option,” said B N Dave, assistant commissioner of police, region II. Immediately after the test, the results will be announced. An answer key will also be put online after the test. The top 100 scorers will be given a prize while all the participants will get a certificate. “It is an awareness attempt. We are asking even police personnel to participate so that they too can refresh their knowledge about rules,” said Prashant Sumbe, deputy commissioner of police, traffic. “We are expecting around 1 lakh participants. We are approaching schools and colleges for maximum participating since their students are already attending online sessions,” Sumbe added. Box On Surat’s busy roads 65 lakh city's population ride 33 lakh different type of vehicles 450 traffic police, 1,500 traffic brigade jawaan manage traffic Online voluntary test on Sunday as part of cops’ ‘iFollow’ campaign 50 marks test to be conducted from 12 noon to 2pm||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/check-traffic-gyaan-online-before-fines-begin/articleshow/77115177.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
July 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Parents praise govt move, but schools irked||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat state education department’s direction to all unaided schools in the state to not collect fees while they remain physically shut drew strong reactions with many school authorities threatening to halt online studies. Some of them are even planning legal course of action. In a notification dated July 16 and made available on Wednesday, the state education department asked self-financed schools not to hike fees for the academic year 2020-21 and not collect fees for the lockdown period till the schools re-open physically. Bharat Gajipara, president Gujarat Self-Financed School Management Association said, “This is very unfortunate. How do we pay the teachers and other staff members if we are not allowed to collect fees? If online classrooms being conducted during Covid-19 crisis are not considered as part of regular academic studies, why does the government stress on continuing them from time to time? We will approach the Gujarat high court to challenge the government’s decision,” Gajipara said. Bhaskar Patel, president of Gujarat State School Management Association said that courts in some states have recently allowed schools to collect tuition fees amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The decision has brought much respite to parents, many of who have for long been demanding a relief in school tuition fees amid Covid-19 crisis. Naresh Shah, president of All Gujarat Parents Association, called it a victory for parents who have for long been ‘reeling under the burden of high fees as charged by some schools’. “It has come to the state government’s notice that during the lockdown period, self-financed schools have been demanding fees from students as well as parents. It has also come to the knowledge, that some private schools have not paid salaries to the teaching and non-teaching staff or have paid only 40-50% of their salaries,” the notification states. The notification also states that when the fees for next year (2021-2022) will be decided by the Fees Regulatory Committee (FRC), it will consider actual expenses and salaries paid to the teaching and non-teaching staff by the schools during this lockdown period while deciding on their expenses for the next academic year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/parents-praise-govt-move-but-schools-irked/articleshow/77116817.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Samastipur civil surgeon, another doctor die of Covid-19||PATNA: Samastipur civil surgeon Dr R R Jha and another doctor died on Wednesday as the Covid-19 death toll in state mounted up to 208 and tally surged to 30,066 with 1502 fresh cases reported in the last 24 hours. Total 19,867 Covid patients have recovered so far while there were 9,980 active cases in state. Both the doctors who died were admitted to AIIMS-Patna. Its nodal officer incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said Dr Jha, 64, was admitted on July 15 and was on dialysis. “Apart from Dr Jha, Dr GN Shah from Araria died today. Chhapra civil surgeon has also been admitted here on Wednesday and the civil surgeon of Nawada is already under treatment. So far, 30-35 doctors are admitted at our hospital,” Dr Sanjeev said. The state registered over 10,000 Covid-19 cases in just one week. While the first three case was reported on March 22, the tally crossed the 10,000-mark on July 1 and touched 20,000 on July 15 and crossed the 30,000-mark on Wednesday. The maximum 455 fresh cases were reported from Patna district in the last 24 hours. Patna so far has reported 4479 Covid cases with 33 deaths, officially. There were 1856 active cases in the district. Apart from the two doctors, six others died at AIIMS-Patna, including a 35-year-old Saguna Mor resident, a man (65) from Darbhanga and another 48-year-old from East Champaran besides a man (81) from Rohtas and another 64-year-old from Samastipur. As per the information shared by the health department, ten deaths were reported, including two each from Patna and Bhagalpur and one each from Arwal, Buxar, Katihar, Purnea, Rohtas and Saran districts. After Patna, the other districts with higher number of Covid cases were Muzaffarpur (113), Gaya (83), Bhagalpur (79) and Rohtas (68). State health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said 1,135 patients recovered from Covid-19 in the past 24 hours and 19,876 statewide so far, taking the recovery rate to 66.11%. He said 40,9088 samples have been tested so far. The state has IMA urged the government to immediately fulfil the vacancies and relieve doctors above 60 years from handling Covid-19 patients and allow those above 65 years to work from home. “Over 5,000 doctors are waiting for appointment. The government has just to verify their papers,” said state IMA senior vice-president Dr Ajay Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/samastipur-civil-surgeon-another-doc-die-of-covid-19/articleshow/77116222.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Isolated patients call counsellors for a chit-chat, home visit||HYDERABAD: From acute anxiety and depression to extreme loneliness — Covid-19 patients, isolated within the four walls of their homes, are going through a gamut of strong emotions. And this has come to fore through the data collated by the government helpline number, set up in April, to address issues of mental health in such times of crisis. Counsellors say, the helpline has been swamped with calls — 2,226 thus far — from distraught patients who’ve either tested positive for the virus or are showing symptoms. Many have even called just for company, or to chit-chat with counsellors. In one case, a patient raised a false alarm hoping to get some health workers over to his home, only to talk. “A 45-year-old man called saying he was unable to breathe and was about to collapse. We we sent the nearest IDSP team to check on him, they found he was physically fine but extremely depressed. He was desperate for some company,” said a counsellor at the 108 number. Sharing the example of an elderly woman who booked a home quarantine package, Sandeep Sundareshwaran, head of the Medicover Hospitals call centre said how they get many requests for home-visits. “This lady insisted on paying cash on delivery, for the isolation kit, as she was unable to use any online transaction method. When our executives went to deliver the kit, she forced them to sit for half an hour and insisted they have tea with her. By the time the executives left, they were in tears,” he said. Counsellors say that the elderly and single people are the most vulnerable with many even getting suicidal. Those with health issues and staying alone, are also in a precarious place. “Such people fear they are going to succumb to the virus. Some even have imagined symptoms,” added the 108 counsellor. While the load has reduced on the helpline now, Dr G Srinivas Rao, director public health, Telangana, said that the initial days saw tremendous rush. “We received 30 to 40 calls per day. Most callers were in extreme anxiety. Some cried, some panicked saying they are about to die and can’t breathe, while others said they were suicidal. Our counsellors spent hours talking to them — often two to three times a day — because they felt lonely,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/isolated-patients-call-counsellors-for-a-chit-chat-home-visit/articleshow/77117046.cms||Amrita Didyala
July 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Uncle sexually abused orphans||AHMEDABAD: A sordid tale of the sexual abuse of two orphan sisters at the hands of their uncle came to light from the Sardarnagar area of the city on Tuesday. The uncle allegedly raped the 16-year-old older girl multiple times and repeatedly molested the younger one, who is 14. Their trauma did not end there. He then married them off to minors and when the girls refused to have sexual relationships with their minor ‘husbands’, he allegedly got their husbands to rape them. This episode came to the knowledge of the district child protection unit, which informed the women’s police cell. Cops swung into action and detained six persons, the uncle and aunt as well as the two minor ‘husbands’ and their parents. “We rescued both the girls and sent them for medical tests, while the accused have been sent for Covid-19 tests,” said Mini Joseph, assistant commissioner police, women’s cell. According to police sources, soon after they were informed about the case, they swooped down on the houses in Sardarnagar and found the girls. “The sisters told them that their father died in 2015 of illness and their mother passed away soon after that. They were living with the grandmother. Their uncle, who lived nearby, took them with him saying he would raise them. He began sexually abusing them about a year ago, raping the older girl and molesting the younger one. The older girl has studied up to Class V and the younger one up to Class III,” said a police source. Police said the uncle got both girls married to minor grooms. “The girls resisted when their ‘husbands’ tried to have sex with them. When the husbands complained to their uncle, he got both boys and the sisters to his house and forced the girls to have sex with them,” a police source added. Police said their neighbours informed the district child protection unit, who called the cops. “We have lodged an offence for rape, child marriage and violation of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) Act,” Joseph said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/uncle-sexually-abused-orphans/articleshow/77116209.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Nagpur||Is Nagpur district running out of Covid-19 beds?||NAGPUR: Despite having more than 3,000-bed capacity in dedicated Covid hospitals, it is taking hours to hospitalize positive patients. It’s not because the city is falling short of beds for patients, but the district administration is yet to utilize about 50% of the bed capacity. An analysis of the facilities declared for Covid-19 treatment and those currently available revealed that services of three Covid-19 hospitals are yet to be utilized. The GMCH, IGGMCH and AIIMS are bearing the entire load of patients, which is increasing every day. Together, these hospitals have about 1,200 beds. Out of these, at least 350 are either ICU or HDU beds which cannot be utilized for normal asymptomatic patients. Apart from these three hospitals, the district administration and the centre’s rapid response team (RRT) team had inspected, approved and earmarked 1,320-bedded Covid-19 treatment facility at three trust-run hospitals. These include Lata Mangeshkar Hospital (LMH) having 600 beds, Shalinitai Meghe Medical College Hospital (600) and the CRPF Hospital (120). Currently, none of them is being utilized. The only Covid Care Centre (CCC) at the MLA Hostel, where asymptomatic patients are being treated, is almost full. More than 85% patients in Nagpur have been found to be asymptomatic and they can be treated properly at CCCs. But, the administration is still to develop this facility at any place other than the MLA Hostel. The plan for having CCCs at every tehsil headquarter is still not realized. Sources in Zilla Parishad said that every tehsil headquarter has developed CCC facility but it’s administrative approval is needed to admit patients. In fact, all patients from Nagpur rural are currently admitted at three government hospitals in the city. Experts said it’s high time the district administration starts Dedicated Covid Hospital at LMH and Shalinitai Meghe Medical College. CCCs developed at 13 tehsils should start immediately and NMC should develop more CCCs in the city, they said. Guardian minister Dr Nitin Raut said that the administration will be directed to make use of all available and earmarked facilities. “We will ensure every patient gets proper hospitalization facility and most asymptomatic patients are treated at CCCs,” he said. In many cities like Nashik, Aurangabad and Solapur having above 3,000 cases, asymptomatic patients can go under home isolation. Suspects too are allowed home quarantine. None of these services are allowed in Nagpur. Interestingly, the latest Covid-19 treatment protocol for Treatment of Confirmed Covid-19 patients released on July 22 states that patients with mild symptoms can also be treated at home if they have isolation facilities. The said revised policy also suggests that CCCs should treat not only asymptomatic but also mild symptomatic patients of all three groups (a, b, and c as per symptoms) and only moderate and severe patients should be admitted to dedicated Covid hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/is-nagpur-district-running-out-of-covid-19-beds/articleshow/77116814.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 23, 2020||Jaipur||Illegal sand mining rampant in Maasi River near Jaipur||Jaipur: At a time when authorities are busy managing the Covid situation, the sand mafia has stepped up its activities in the state’s rivers. Illegal sand mining is rampant on the banks of Maasi River, 40km from Jaipur. Despite the apex court blanket ban on mining, the mafia continues to plunder the river bed, close to the state capital. A resident of Nimbera village near Phagi in Jaipur district, who provided pictures to TOI and wished not to be named said, “Trucks of the mafia enter the villages along the river bank to excavate bajri (sand) from the riverbed. Those who complain or protest are threatened or beaten up by the gangs.” In February this year, the Supreme Court directed to appoint Central Empowered Committee (CEC) to look into the issue of illegal sand mining and submit a report suggesting measures to deal with it. Bajri Truck Operators’ Welfare Society, president Naveen Sharma told TOI, “Despite the CEC being constituted, the mafia is not afraid due to the lackadaisical approach of the administration. The Supreme Court also directed collectors and superintendents of each district to take steps to stop illegal mining. But large number of trucks can be seen on Phagi-Jaipur Road.” Due to shortage of sand following the ban, the demand has increased manifold. Scores of tractors and trucks belonging to the mafia make their way through the villages and extract sand. Locals allege that the mafia has the support of police, administrative officials and a section of local politicians. “Before the bajri ban, the rates were Rs 800 per tonne, while, at present it is sold at Rs 1,300 per tonne. A 40-tonne truck costs Rs 55,000 to Rs 60,000 depending on the demand,” said a bajri trader. Villagers of Nimbera alleged that over 150 trucks loaded with sand leave the area every day in violation of the Supreme Court order. The heavily-loaded vehicles have damaged roads, and the dust has affected the health of residents. “We cannot muster up the courage to confront the mafia because they are armed. The administration has left us to fend for ourselves,” said Gajendra Kumar, who owns a farm on Jaipur-Phagi Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/illegal-sand-mining-rampant-in-maasi-river-near-jaipur/articleshow/77116798.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bopal garbage dump to be history by end of the year||AHMEDABAD: The Bopal garbage dump near the GEB station in the area, which was an eyesore, will be history by the end of this year. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) which recently took over the area, has decided to first clear the dump site. The site, which officials say is suitable for commercial development, could fetch between Rs 100 and Rs 150 crore. It is adjacent to the Isro guest house and there are residential colonies and a school near it. It is spread over six acres. The AMC has decided that the 3 lakh tonnes of waste at the site will be disposed of and a bio-mining project will be undertaken there. Officials said the site will be levelled in a fortnight so that the project can begin. The AMC plans to use three trommel machines at the Bopal site and it will be free of garbage by the beginning of next year. The waste mound was earlier 8-foot high but it has been reduced to 4 feet by the single trommel machine deployed earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bopal-garbage-dump-to-be-history-by-end-of-the-year/articleshow/77116225.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
July 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bold step or misstep? Experts ponder||AHMEDABAD: The government’s decision forbidding self-financed schools from collecting tuition fees during the time the schools remain shut due to Covid-19 crisis has brought cheers to parents who regard it as a long-awaited but bold move by the Gujarat education department. Some experts in the academic circles, however, see this decision meeting the same fate as the government’s earlier decision of capping fees for schools. The Fee Regulatory Committee (FRC) guidelines have put a cap on annual school tuition fees. While for the primary level it is Rs 15,000, for the secondary and higher secondary it has been fixed at Rs 25,00 and Rs 30,000 respectively. For schools seeking higher fees than the limit prescribed, they are to approach the fee revision committee for necessary approval, as per the guidelines. “Most of the self-financed schools are collecting tuition fees that are much higher that the limits set by the FRC,” said an education expert. The government notification states that that educational institutions and associations are charitable organizations and the main objective of their creation is not profiteering but to fulfil the educational needs of the society. On June 19, the Gujarat high court, while deciding on a writ petition filed by an association of school parents, had left it to the state government to take steps in the larger interest of parents and students. “On one hand the government has asked the schools to take online classes as per the Centre’s directive, and on the other, it is directing them not to collect tuition fees at all for the lockdown period. This seems very contradictory,” according to an expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bold-step-or-misstep-experts-ponder/articleshow/77116815.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Nagpur||MP Dhanorkar joins ‘Save Sarai’ campaign||Chandrapur: Senior social activists and politicians including member of Parliament Balu alias Suresh Dhanorkar have stepped forward to save the Colonial-era architectural marvel — Sarai — in the city. After TOI highlighted the dilapidated condition of Sarai in July 14 issue, many social workers and historians have joined hands to save the building that had housed leaders like Mahatma Gandhi, Dr Rajendra Prasad, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and many others. Dhanorkar has dashed a letter to Maharashtra urban development minister Eknath Shinde urging him to repair and restore the British era building to house a museum there. The Congress MP has pointed out that despite opposition from citizens, the Chandrapur Municipal Corporation (CMC) is eyeing the prime land of Sarai to build a shopping mall. Taking cognisance of the rising opposition, city commissioner Rajesh Mohite along with town planner inspected the Sarai on Wednesday. A delegation of social workers led by Bandu Dhotre, Suresh Chopne and Yogeshwar Dudhpachare met Mohite and apprised him about the importance of the building and the sentiments attached to it. The CMC is likely to summon a meeting on the issue during the final days of the month as the lockdown in city ends on July 26. The inn (Sarai) was built in 1927 for devotees coming for annual fair of Chandrapur’s patron deity Mahakali Devi. During the freedom struggle, leaders including Mahatma Gandhi, Sardar Patel, Dr Rajendra Prasad, Barrister Abhyankar, Barrister Yusuf Sharif etc had stayed in the Sarai. Social worker and veteran journalist Satyanarayan Tiwari, who is also known as Blood Donation Man for his record 230 donations, has warned to start indefinite hunger strike if the CMC fails to take up restoration of the historic building by August 15. Many social organizations including Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH), Eco-Pro Organization, Green Planet Society, Gondwana Geographical Society, Wild-CARE etc have declared support to Tiwari’s demand and announced active participation in the hunger strike.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mp-dhanorkar-joins-save-sarai-campaign/articleshow/77116224.cms||Mazhar Ali
July 23, 2020||Pune||Partner-CEO of Vadgaon Maval farm shot at||Pune: A person fired four bullets from a country-made pistol at the partner-cum-CEO of a farm on Wednesday morning near Kanhe Phata at Vadgaon Maval, about 62km from the city. Milind Madhukar Manerikar (50) of Talegaon Dabhade, who operates Sankalp Farms at Vahangaon in Vadgaon Maval, suffered three bullet injuries in his stomach and another brushed through his neck. He is being treated at a private hospital at Somatane Phata near Talegaon Dabhade. Senior inspector Suresh Nimbalkar of Vadgaon Maval police said, “Manerikar and his partner, Chetan Nimkar, were going towards the farm in an SUV. The victim was driving. Two men following them on a motorcycle overtook them and stopped. The pillion rider got down and walked towards the SUV. Seeing him, Manerikar rolled down the window glass. The man asked him about a poultry farm in the area. Manerikar was about to tell him the route, the suspect took out a country-made pistol and fired a round towards his head. The bullet brushed against his neck as he immediately bent. The suspect fired three more bullets, which hit his stomach. The suspect then fled with his accomplice.” Senior inspector Padmakar Ghanwat of local crime branch said, “Only Manerikar will be able to tell us if he received any threats or had a dispute with someone,” Ghanwat said. Manerikar’s partner, Nimkar, told the police the assailants’ motorcycle did not have the registration number plate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/partner-ceo-of-vadgaon-maval-farm-shot-at/articleshow/77116797.cms||Mihir Tanksale
July 23, 2020||Nagpur||Nearly 100 nullahs ‘disappear’ due to encroachments||Nagpur: As many as 97 nullahs across the city have simply “disappeared” due to rampant encroachments. A study of Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s public health engineering department revealed city once had 227 nullahs but now only 130 remain. The department has reported this to municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe in a review meeting. The department also informed the civic chief that encroachments over sewerage lines were causing frequent blockages. Taking serious cognizance of a TOI report ‘4,654 plaints flood NMC, sewers remain choked’, Mundhe on Friday ordered officials to remove all encroachments from sewer lines. At more than 275 places in the city, the citizens have constructed permanent houses covering the sewer lines. This prevents the NMC from clear the blockages. During monsoon, the sewage water starts overflowing and enters many residential areas. The situation is same in the case of nullahs. At more than 70 places, concrete pillars have been erected, slabs laid in nullah bed. Builders have raised the retaining wall and grabbed its banks. At many places, the entire nullahs have been diverted, the department headed by superintending engineer Shweta Banerjee informed the civic chief, who appealed to the encroachers to remove the illegal constructions on their own as NMC will launch a drive in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nearly-100-nullahs-disappear-due-to-encroachments/articleshow/77116233.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Covid-19 in Andhra Pradesh: Parents oppose move to reopen schools||VIJAYAWADA: After the state government announced on Wednesday that schools will reopen from September 5, parents of a few schoolgoing children have started a campaign ‘No Vaccine-No School’. Parents are circulating the message on social media platforms and are set to send a petition to the ministry of human resource development as the Union government had directed the state governments not to reopen the schools till its further orders. The number of Covid-19 cases has been on the rise across the state and most of the areas in the city have been demarcated as containment zones. Many parents have strongly opposed the move and said they cannot send their children to schools until a vaccine is released. “Many government offices are being closed down after some employees are testing positive. Around 5,000 Covid-19 cases were registered in the state every day in the last week and the death rate has also soared. At this point of time we cannot risk the lives of our children. Staying home is the only way to prevent the spread of Covid-19 until a potential vaccine gets approved. Life is more important than a year and we will not send our children to the schools,” said Sk Kareema Begum, a homemaker from Ajith Singh Nagar. A few parents are requesting the state government permit online classes for high school students rather than reopening schools. So far government teachers have been conducting bridge courses for students. Many of them have started Whatsapp groups and have kept students engaged in educational activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/parents-oppose-move-to-reopen-schools/articleshow/77118888.cms||Venu Lanka
July 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Covid-19 in Andhra Pradesh: Parents oppose move to reopen schools||VIJAYAWADA: After the state government announced on Wednesday that schools will reopen from September 5, parents of a few schoolgoing children have started a campaign ‘No Vaccine-No School’. Parents are circulating the message on social media platforms and are set to send a petition to the ministry of human resource development as the Union government had directed the state governments not to reopen the schools till its further orders. The number of Covid-19 cases has been on the rise across the state and most of the areas in the city have been demarcated as containment zones. Many parents have strongly opposed the move and said they cannot send their children to schools until a vaccine is released. “Many government offices are being closed down after some employees are testing positive. Around 5,000 Covid-19 cases were registered in the state every day in the last week and the death rate has also soared. At this point of time we cannot risk the lives of our children. Staying home is the only way to prevent the spread of Covid-19 until a potential vaccine gets approved. Life is more important than a year and we will not send our children to the schools,” said Sk Kareema Begum, a homemaker from Ajith Singh Nagar. A few parents are requesting the state government permit online classes for high school students rather than reopening schools. So far government teachers have been conducting bridge courses for students. Many of them have started Whatsapp groups and have kept students engaged in educational activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/parents-oppose-move-to-reopen-schools/articleshow/77115175.cms||Venu Lanka
July 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Flood-hit Osmania General Hospital wards sealed, building to be razed||HYDERABAD: Faced with all-round criticism after rainwater flooded some of the wards and with images of patients and attendants wading through knee-deep water going viral, the state government has decided to pull down the over century-old Osmania General Hospital (OGH) building. In the first step towards raising a new building on the existing premises, the government on Wednesday asked OGH superintendent to immediately seal the wards where the rainwater had entered and shift patients and paraphernalia. Health minister Eatala Rajender said the building was in a dilapidated condition. “The government will raze the OGH building soon and raise new towers. People who are opposing the construction of a new building should remember that the last Nizam of Hyderabad, Mir Osman Ali Khan, had constructed the hospital as a health facility to serve the people and not to project it as a monument,” Rajender told TOI. The minister said the designs for the new building are ready. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao would take a call on the issue soon, he said. “However, shifting of all the wards and patients will begin only after the pandemic subsides,” he said. Sources said the CM discussed the OGH issue at a Covid-19 review meeting on Tuesday and instructed officials to complete the work on designs and estimations for the new building. When the CM wanted the patients shifted to other locations, senior officials are believed to have suggested that they should be shifted to TIMS in Gachibowli. OGH has more than a thousand beds. Following the directions of the CM, the director of medical education asked the OGH superintendent to vacate the old building premises and seal it forthwith before another tragedy strikes. “The government is of the view that time has come to construct a new building. Even opposition parties want a new structure in place of the old building,” a senior health official said. Construction of a new building has been on the cards for the last five years. KCR had visited the hospital in 2015 and announced that a new building would be constructed on the same premises by demolishing old structures. This sparked outrage among heritage activists and historians who said it was a heritage building. The demolition plans were put on hold due to protests. While there have been instances before when it was felt that the building was unfit for use with frequent incidents of chunks of plaster falling off or flooding of the entire ground floor of the building, officials recalled that it was for the first time that orders had been issued to seal off the building. Rainwater entered some of the wards on July 13 and again on July 15, leaving patients and their attendants stranded for several hours before they were relocated to other floors. With videos of the flooded wards doing the rounds on social media, it became a political talking point. Leaders from Congress, BJP, CPI and TJS visited the hospital with a plea to bring down the building. Minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav also visited the hospital. In November 2018, junior doctors had gone on a 75-day strike demanding that the building be declared not fit for use and all the services be shifted to a new building. Now, some doctors’ associations have also started demanding a new building for OGH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/flood-hit-ogh-wards-sealed-bldg-to-be-razed/articleshow/77117276.cms||Koride Mahesh
July 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Waste to now go to Pirana||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation had decided that all solid waste collected from the areas newly merged into the city will henceforth go to the Pirana dump site. The AMC has asked the concerned zone to make arrangements for this. AMC officials said that the standing committee, which will meet on Thursday, will decide on purchasing new equipment and appointing agencies to collect garbage from these new areas. An official said the main issue will be for Bopal-Ghuma, as the area has a sizeable population and generates an estimated 70 tonnes of garbage a day. He said the biggest challenge in these areas will be waste segregation. In Ahmedabad, dry and wet waste is collected separately but in these areas there is no segregation and the use of banned plastic is rampant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/waste-to-now-go-to-pirana/articleshow/77116237.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan government plans to waive cess on EWS and LIG houses||JAIPUR: Developers constructing housing schemes for economically weaker sections (EWS) and lower income groups (LIG) may not have to pay the labour cess. State’s labour department is mulling a proposal to waive off the cess, which is 1% of the total project cost as it would provide relief to the buyers. The draft proposal has received a nod from the labour minister, Tika Ram and has been forwarded to the legal department. As per the estimation, there are 175 to 200 projects of affordable housing in the state, which have about 1 lakh housing units. The move will provide relief to all those buyers who will purchase plots in upcoming schemes as cost will be reduced. An official said, “About 60 million square feet of construction has to be carried out in the approved ongoing projects. The construction cost is approximately Rs 7,200 crore. Labor cess is payable at 1%. On this basis, the cess amounts to Rs 7.2 crore. This amount is being proposed to be reduced in housing costs.” Developers believe the move will directly benefit the LIG and EWS category. Rajasthan CREDAI chairman Gopal Das Gupta said, “The demand was also put forward by the developers to waive off the cess to benefit these categories. We would welcome the move as this was additional burden on poor.” Vinay Joshi, chairman, Rajasthan Affordable Housing Developers Association, said, “In our representation, we have explained that the government’s intention is to benefit the EWS and LIG. The cess should not be imposed on this category. Our demand was considered and request has been forwarded to the Centre.”The official at the civic bodies believe this would also encourage the developers as it would give slight relief in investment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-plans-to-waive-cess-on-ews-and-lig-houses/articleshow/77116827.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Delhi||Tiff over lawyers: Cabinet to take call next week||NEW DELHI: The state cabinet is likely to take a final call on Tuesday on the appointment of special public prosecutors for representing the government in Delhi high court in cases pertaining to the February communal riots. A tussle between the elected government and lieutenant governor has been going on over the issue for quite some time. Since the beginning, the AAP government had been insisting that only lawyers selected by it should be appointed for a free and fair trial and not the ones recommended by Delhi Police or the Centre. Last week, LG Anil Baijal had written to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to decide on the matter within a week. The LG wanted the government to approve the panel of lawyers selected by Delhi Police. Delhi government was not ready to accept this order. A source said, “In the past few months, Delhi government standing counsel Rahul Mehra has fought for the rights of people wrongly arrested by Delhi Police. Due to his strong arguments, activists like Safoora Zargar and Faisal Farooq got bail. The government believes that it will be difficult for people to get justice if the cases are represented by lawyers recommended by the Centre.” On July 10, Delhi Police had sent a proposal to the AAP government to appoint a team of six senior lawyers, including Tushar Mehta and Aman Lekhi, to represent the prosecution in the high court in 85 cases of communal riots and anti-CAA protests. Deputy CM Manish Sisodia, who was then handling the home department, had rejected the proposal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tiff-over-lawyers-cabinet-to-take-call-next-week/articleshow/77136172.cms||AlokKNMishra
July 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||4 Covid hospitals de-notified||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has de-notified four hospital in the city as ‘designated Covid hospitals.’ The decision to de-notify the four hospitals was taken after the AMC team found that the fatality rate in these hospital was much higher. The four hospital include Bodyline Hospital (Paldi), Saviour Annexe Hospital (Ashram Road), Tapan Hospital (Satellite) and Tapan Hospital (Rakhial-Bapunagar). Additional chief secretary Rajiv Kumar Gupta, who assumed charge of Covid-19 control in Ahmedabad on May 7, says medial expert team comprising assistant professor (zonal), zonal deputy health officer, head of department medicine of SVP Hospital and officer on special duty AMC, alter visiting the hospitals concluded the case fatality ratio (CFR) was high in both AMC quota beds and even the 50% private quota beds. The occupancy of the beds was low, as less number of AMC patients were treated and very less occupancy was also observed in private quota. The committee also found that there was a lack of data management at these hospitals. The said committee submitted the report to the AMC with recommendation to discontinue hospital from Covid designation. Gupta said that after consideration of the report from the medical team comprising experts, it was decided to de-notify the four hospitals with an immediate effect for treating the Covid patients. Henceforth, the four hospital will not be allowed to admit Covid-19 patients. The AMC has stated that no new patient will be admitted in these four hospitals and once the existing patients are discharged, these hospitals will be no more be designated Covid hospitals. The officials said that even after this order if the hospital were found to be admitting Covid-19 patients on their own it would be considered as a punishable offence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/4-covid-hospitals-de-notified/articleshow/77116784.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Nagpur||Naxalite-hit farmers to get 16 hours power a day||NAGPUR: Farmers of Naxalite-affected Gondia and Bhandara districts will get 16 hours of three-phase power everyday. Energy minister Nitin Raut has instructed MSEDCL to submit a proposal to Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) in this regard. Gondia and Bhandara districts have not received adequate rainfall this year. The paddy farmers are unable to water their fields with the usual power supply of 8 hours per day. Assembly speaker Nana Patole brought this to Raut’s notice. A meeting was held in the divisional commissionerate between Patole, Raut, divisional commissioner Dr Sanjeev Kumar and power officials. Raut told Patole that the proposal would be submitted to MERC within a week. The minister also finalized the locations for Mahatransco substations in Sakoli and Deori.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/naxalite-hit-farmers-to-get-16-hours-power-a-day/articleshow/77116247.cms||Ashish Roy
July 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC seeks mother’s birth, school leaving certificates||AHMEDABAD: After ordering verification of the Aadhaar cards of Chandola resident Amir Shaikh and his mother Rashida with the Unique Identity Authority of India (UIDAI), the Gujarat high court ordered a municipal school to furnish Rashida’s birth certificate and school leaving certificate. The HC sought the documents and verification of other documents after the special operation group (SOG) last month picked up Amir on suspicion that he is a Bangladesh citizen. His mother furnished various documents to claim that the family belongs to Ahmedabad, and as they were affected in the 2002 riots, they had been rehabilitated by the district collector. While the state government continued to raise suspicions on the veracity of the documents furnished by Rashida, the high court ordered the principal of Municipal School No 6, Urdu Medium, in Raikhad to furnish Rashida’s birth certificate and school leaving certificates on Friday. While their documents are under scrutiny, the mother-son duo complained the HC that despite various requests, the corrections of their election cards were not taking place. The HC has also ordered the authorities to do the needful.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-seeks-mothers-birth-school-leaving-certificates/articleshow/77116243.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Patna||Over 6 lakh hit as floodwaters spread to 2 new districts in Bihar||PATNA: Over 6.3 lakh people in 10 districts of Bihar were affected by floods on Wednesday. The 4.36 lakh cusecs of water released in the Gandak from the Valmikinagar barrage on Tuesday inundated 65 more panchayats under 17 blocks and affected over 2 lakh additional population in West Champaran and Khagaria on Wednesday. The floodwaters spread through East Champaran, Padrauna, Gopalganj, Muzaffarpur and Vaishali. According to the IMD bulletin, rainfall with thunderstorms is very likely at most places in north Bihar, including the flood-affected districts, on Thursday as the southwest monsoon has been active over Bihar during the past 24 hours. The Skymetweather has also forecast heavy rain in Kishanganj, Purnea and Supaul in the next three days. The evening bulletin of the state disaster management department stated that floodwaters affected 282 panchayats under 55 blocks of West Champaran, Khagaria, East Champaran, Sheohar, Supaul, Kishanganj, Sitamarhi, Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur and Gopalganj districts. The Bagmati water entered Belwa and Barahi Jagdishpur panchayats in Sheohar while the Kamala river flooded Jainagar block in Madhubani district. Officials engaged in flood control said 2.64 lakh cusecs was still there at the Valmikinagar barrage and the water resources department engineers were keeping fingers crossed as the Bagmati, Kamla and Gandak rivers kept flowing above the danger mark at several places. But the falling trend of major rivers, including the Kosi and Adhwara group of rivers, on Wednesday eased their tension to some extent. However, unless the deluge of Gandak water released from Valmikinagar reaches Hajipur and merges with the Ganga there and weather remains dry in the Nepal catchment area, the threat of floodwaters spreading and submerging fresh areas will remain, sources said. Altogether 134 community kitchens are being run by the respective district administration, with the maximum 98 in Darbhanga district. “Altogether 59 villages under six blocks of Khagaria, Mansi, Beldaur Alouli, Cautham and Gogri were partially affected by the floodwaters of the Kosi and Bagmati,” ADM Shatrunjay Mishra said, adding the district administration was running three relief camps at Shaharbanni, Birwas and Hidyatpur under Alouli, Gogri and Mansi blocks respectively. “Forty boats have been pressed into services for relief and rescue operations,” the ADM said. Khagaria district magistrate (DM) Alok Ranjan Ghosh said the engineers of the flood control divisions have been asked to keep a round-the-clock vigil on the embankments to tackle any eventuality. The Sonbarsa, Parihar, Bathanaha, Belsand, Runnisaidpur and Bajpatti blocks in Sitamarhi were also partly affected by the swollen Lakhadei, Manushamara and Adhawara group of rivers. The Bhittha police outpost along the India-Nepal border was inundated. The Jhim river water partly inundated Sonbarsa town. Floodwaters disrupted traffic on Sitamarhi-Sursand, Sitamarhi-Parihar and Sitamarhi-Sheohar roads. The Bagmati and Lalbakeya rivers had a receding trend near Dheng and Bairgania, respectively, but still posed danger to the embankments. Sitamarhi DM Abhilasha Kumari Sharma said the district administration was on alert and keeping constant vigil. (With inputs from N P Thakur in Khagaria and S K Singh in Sitamarhi)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/over-6l-hit-as-floodwaters-spread-to-2-new-districts-in-bihar/articleshow/77116256.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
July 23, 2020||Delhi||Why can’t you issue digital certificates, HC asks Delhi University||NEW DELHI: Unhappy that doctors are being forced to approach court rather than tackle Covid-19, Delhi high court on Wednesday asked Delhi University why it couldn’t go digital for issuing degrees, certificates and marksheets. “Students, especially doctors providing their services during the pandemic, ought not to have been forced to approach this court for seeking their degree-certificates, especially when they graduated two years ago,” Justice Pratibha M Singh noted while hearing a plea by five MBBS graduates of Lady Hardinge Medical College seeking their certificates two years after their graduation in 2018. “Most of DU is under lockdown and there is very minimal physical interface between students and the administration. There is no reason as to why DU should not be adopting technically advanced methods to ensure that the students are not inconvenienced,” the court said. No student should have to approach courts for issuance of marksheets, transcripts and degree certificates, which ought to be provided by DU in the natural course within a reasonable time, it added. “DU ought to take a pragmatic approach in this matter,” Justice Singh said while advising the university to consider “the option of setting up a special cell, which will entertain requests of students on email for digital certificates, marksheets, transcripts etc.” It should also install the software necessary for issuance of degree certificates with security features, to be sent online through email in a timely manner, the court said, asking the joint director of DU Computer Centre and the dean (examination) to appear virtually on Thursday. The court wants to examine the feasibility of setting up such a cell, which will also enable students to have a proper interface with the university during the pandemic. The petitioners have submitted that they wished to apply for their residency programmes in the US and take United States Medical Licensing Examination, for which August 15 is the last date for uploading the degree certificate. However, despite representations, DU has not indicated any date for issuing the degree certificate. The university told the court that it was taking steps to give the tender for printing the certificates swiftly and the deadline for submission of bids was August 1. Bids will open on August 3 following which the contract will be signed, it added. But the court noted that the process was long drawn and would not serve the purpose of students who had deadlines for submission of their documents and posted the plea for further hearing on Thursday. The judge also pointed out that most institutions had made alternative arrangements during the lockdown for issuance of digital certificates, marksheets and ranscripts online, along with digital signatures and security features.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-cant-you-issue-digital-certificates-hc-asks-du/articleshow/77116242.cms||Abhinav Garg
July 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||CM’s courtesy visit to governor sparks rumours of cabinet expansion||Gandhinagar: Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani went to meet governor Acharya Devvrat immediately after Wednesday’s cabinet meeting, fuelling rumours of a possible cabinet expansion soon. However, the chief minister’s office clarified that it was a courtesy call as the governor had completed a year in office on Wednesday.After a change of guard in the state BJP and C R Paatil taking over as the new state party chief, speculations have begun in political circles that there will be a reshuffle in the state cabinet as well. There is a strong buzz in BJP circles that a few non-performing ministers will be dropped to accommodate new faces.However a key BJP leader in the know said, “The party is weighing options of cabinet reshuffle before and after the byelections of eight assembly seats. To avoid any controversy, it is likely that the party will opt for a cabinet reshuffle after the assembly bypolls to be held by August-end or in September.”There are also speculations over whether CM Vijay Rupani and deputy CM Nitin Patel will continue in office.Meanwhile, the roads & buildings department continued its maintenance and renovation work at vacant ministerial bungalows and ministerial chambers in Swarnim Sankul II. Officials however claimed that this was routine cleaning work which is done every two or three weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cms-courtesy-visit-to-governor-sparks-rumours-of-cabinet-expansion/articleshow/77116794.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Chandigarh||HSIIDC allows 10% additional FAR for housing labour in industrial units||CHANDIGARH: In a significant development, the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) on Wednesday approved the policy to allow 10% additional floor area ratio (FAR) for in-situ housing of labour within industrial units. This was decided during the meeting held under the chairmanship of the principal secretary to chief minister-cum-chairman, HSIIDC, Rajesh Khullar . The policy would be useful for those industrial units in particular, which have already exhausted the available FAR. The facility would be provided on payment of proportionate augmentation charges and after getting the zoning or building plans revised. As per the policy, the allottees of plots up to 5 acres can avail the 10% additional FAR through self-certification. The board took several decisions for the convenience of industrialists in the state, including simplifying the e-auction procedure for the allotment of industrial plots. Many decisions were also taken for the convenience of applicants for new plots. The decisions include fixing the standard e-auction time of 7 am to 9 pm. However, in case the auction is not concluded till 9 pm, the auction would resume at 7 am, the next day. The H-1(highest) bidder shall now be given 10 minutes to book the plot. If he does not book the plot in the given time, software would randomly allocate the plot in the next one minute. The subsequent round would start from the highest bid of H-2 bidder. If a no bid situation arises the H-2 bidder shall be given 30 minutes to select his plot at his previous H-2 bid. The third round would start from the highest bid of H-3 bidder in first round or subsequent rounds, whichever is high. It was decided that earnest money deposit (EMD) to be remitted at the time of registration would now be 5% of plot cost at reserve price as against 2% earlier. For the successful bidders to complete 10% payment, time would be increased from 24 hours to 72 hours. Failing this, 5% EMD deposited at the time of registration would be forfeited. However, all unsuccessful bidders would still be refunded their EMD amount within 24 hours. Among those present in the meeting included principal secretary, industries, A.K Singh; managing director, HSIIDC, Anurag Agarwal; director, industries and commerce Dr Saket Kumar; director, town and country planning K Makarand Pandurang and other senior officers of HSIIDC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hsiidc-allows-10-additional-far-for-housing-labour-in-industrial-units/articleshow/77116829.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Crime branch takes over spurious injection case||AHMEDABAD: The investigation into the sale of spurious Tocilizumab was handed over to the city crime branch on Wednesday, a day after Vastrapur police filed a complaint of culpable homicide not amounting to murder against five persons. Tocilizumab is a life-saving drug for critically ill Covid patients. Sources in the city police said that the racket’s scope may lie well beyond Surat and Ahmedabad. Special commissioner of police, city crime branch, Ajay Tomar said that cops will investigate whether the racket has spread across the state. Three days after the Food and Drugs Control Administration, Gujarat, unearthed the racket involving the sale of spurious Tocilizumab, Vastrapur police had charged the five persons. The accused persons hatched a conspiracy to make a quick buck by repackaging a steroid called Nandrolone Decanoate as Tocilizumab under a fake brand name. The medicine can kill vulnerable Covid patients. The accused persons in this case were identified as Ashish Shah and his brother Akshay Shah, residents of Sabarmati; Harsh Thakor, a resident of Chandkheda; Nilesh Laliwala, a resident of Paldi; and the kingpin of the racket, Sohel Tai, a resident of Rander in Surat. Tai is the owner of Genic Pharma, an apparently bogus firm based in Surat, from where the spurious Tocilizumab injections were being supplied to Ahmedabad. Thakor and Laliwala were detained and sent for Covid-19 tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/crime-branch-takes-over-spurious-injection-case/articleshow/77116832.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Mangaluru||Woman ends life by jumping into well||MANGALURU: A graduate who was aspiring for a government job, allegedly committed suicide by jumping into a well in Alankar village, in the Kadaba police station limits on Wednesday. According to police Sandhya, 22, a resident of Alankar, Kadaba taluk, had applied for a government job. However, as the job process was delayed, she was rolling beedis to make ends meet and support her family. Police said that she often used discuss about the delay in securing the job, and was depressed as well. Hours before she ended her life, Sandhya had a word about the job with family members and went to bed. In the early morning, when her family members awakened, Sandhya was not in her room. They then went searching for her, and found her body in their well. Police added that she had left her cellphone and footwear near the well. A case has been registered at the jurisdictional police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/woman-ends-life-by-jumping-into-well/articleshow/77114013.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Nagpur||States told to expedite conflict compensation payment||NAGPUR: With man-animal conflict raging in the country, the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) has asked the states to expedite compensation to the victims. MoEFCC on July 10 issued an advisory to chief secretaries asking states to pay at least 25% of the ex-gratia amount to the affected persons or the kin of the victims within 24 hours of the incident. “As wildlife spaces shrink and habitat destruction is on rise, there is spurt in man-animal conflict. In Maharashtra alone, there is huge rise in conflict with 40 persons getting killed in wild animal attacks in last seven months (January 1, 2020 till date). In entire 2019, 39 people were killed,” said senior wildlife officials. Maharashtra pays highest compensation of Rs 15 lakh to kin of victim and Rs 60,000 for cattle kill. However, delayed compensation is an issue and is not only causing resentment against forest department but also taking toll on wildlife by way of revenge killings. Due to Covid-19 pandemic, budget of the state forest department has been cut to 33% and wildlife allocations have taken a beating. “The negative budgeting system for wildlife compensation has been withdrawn due to which pending dues went up to Rs 28.56 crore. However, we released Rs 19 crore towards cattle and human kill compensation and now Rs 9.56 crore still remain to be paid,” said budget and planning department officials. MoEFCC advisory has asked the states to establish a revolving fund with DFOs for immediate payment of ex-gratia and maintain this fund with minimum balance to cater to emergencies. Kishor Rithe, one of the members of the state committee on man-animal conflict, said, “Ex-gratia is not actual compensation. The claims should be settled in 3-4 days and department should start electronic transfer. We need to adopt a user-friendly system.” MoEFCC also asked states to fix timelines for completing formalities by various authorities like post-mortem report, police report etc. A monthly review of the compensation paid should be held at the chief wildlife warden level to point out delays. The environment ministry has also asked that the issue be kept on agenda in the state wildlife board meetings for decision making on reforms or addressing pending departmental issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/states-told-to-expedite-conflict-compensation-payment/articleshow/77116241.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 23, 2020||Dehradun||NSUI protests against Centre’s decision to hold exams||Dehradun: The National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) protested against the Centre’s decision to hold exams for final year students in Dehradun on Wednesday. The Congress’ student wing has been protesting for a while and has made demands of not to hold exams as the number of Covid-19 cases are rising daily. The NSUI members said that the ministry of human resource development should understand that holding examinations amid pandemic will put students at risk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nsui-protests-against-centres-decision-to-hold-exams/articleshow/77114011.cms||Mohammad Anab
July 23, 2020||Vadodara||Couple cheats three jewellers by replacing original ornaments||VADODARA: Three jewellers from different areas of the city have approached police with complaint against an unidentified couple that stole gold jewellery from their shop by replacing it with imitations. Deepak Shah, who has his shop on Makrand Desai Road in Gotri, was the latest victim. He told police that the accused arrived at his shop on July 6 and asked to show gold rings. After selecting a ring, they asked for gold necklace. They placed order for two gold rings and a pendant and paid Rs 500 advance and told that they will collect the order within a fortnight by paying the remaining amount. Later when Shah was counting the jewellery and putting them in the strong room, he could not find a ring and necklace which he had showed to the accused. Instead he found some other ring and a necklace. When Shah checked the quality, he found out that the other ring and necklace were not made of gold. Similarly, another jeweller in Gotri, Chirag Jani was cheated in December last year. Jani said that on December 10 last year, a couple came to his shop when he was not present. His son Parth showed rings to them of which they finalized one and paid Rs 500 advance. A few days later, Jani found out a ring which was not made of gold in his collection. On checking the CCTV camera footage of his shop, he learnt that the woman had replaced the ring when Parth was looking away. Another jeweller who has shop on MG Road near Mandvi also lodged a complaint at Wadi police station. The jeweller’s salesman Gopal Rabari told police that two persons had come to purchase gold ring at the shop on January 1. They left without making any purchases, but a gold ring shown to them was missing. However, no imitated ring was found in their collection. “We have lodged offences of cheating and theft at concerned police stations. Our teams are close to nabbing the accused and they will soon be in our custody,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/couple-cheats-three-jewellers-by-replacing-original-ornaments/articleshow/77115354.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Jaipur||Villagers abandon old buffaloes inside Rajasthan's MHTR||JAIPUR: The forest administration at Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR) is having sleepless nights as villagers are abandoning unproductive cattle inside the reserve after dislodging the protection wall. After the state government and the Centre tightened the noose on cattle sale for purpose of slaughtering, old bovines, which cannot be used for milking, have become a burden for these villagers. Facing difficulty to feed these animals, farmers are setting them free in the forest. At MHTR, 300 buffaloes are under department custody. However, not many owners have turned up till date to get them released. A senior forest official said in the villages, the population of cattle is higher than human as majority of them belong to Gujjar community who keeps cattle in abundance. At Darrah range, these villagers have dismantled a 150-feet protection wall. “Cattle in large number inside the tiger reserve can lead to overgrazing. Not many villagers have turned up for releasing them as they are unproductive. These bovines are kept near Sawan Badho Dam so they do not degrade the thick vegetation,” an official said. A forest staff said the department does not have the power to register a case on villagers for damaging the protection wall, which is a public property. It could be registered by the police administration under the sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). However, this issue is not taken seriously by police. Three weeks ago, a villager was captured inside the tiger reserve on a trap camera, nut no action has been taken till date fearing protest. A forest guard said, “It is challenging to work in a life-threatening environment. Villagers in this area have political patronage and are not scared of unarmed forest guards. There is no administrative support even if we get attacked. Moreover, in this case, the villagers have lodged a cross FIR against forest staff, which is demotivating for us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/villagers-abandon-old-buffaloes-inside-mhtr/articleshow/77116838.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Dehradun||CAU appoints former Jharkhand CJ as its ethics officer||Dehradun: The Cricket Association of Uttarakhand (CAU) has appointed former Chief Justice of Jharkhand Virendra Singh as its Lokpal (ethics officer). The decision was taken in the board’s general meeting in Dehradun on Tuesday. The board appointed its secretary Mahim Verma as Uttarakhand’s representative for BCCI meetings, and members for various CAU committees were also appointed. A total of 12 proposals were presented in the meeting out of which five of them will be sent to the apex council for its approval. One of the main proposals is regarding the possession of a cricket stadium on lease. This has been one of the main agendas of the CAU since its inception.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cau-appoints-former-jharkhand-cj-as-its-ethics-officer/articleshow/77114027.cms||Mohammad Anab
July 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Covid-19: Andhra Pradesh breaks daily record of cases, deaths in highest one-day spike||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported its biggest single-day spike of 6,045 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the cumulative caseload to 64,713. The death toll increased to 823 with 65 more people succumbing to the virus, which is also the highest single-day toll in the state so far. On the positive side, 6,533 patients were declared cured on Wednesday, outnumbering the new cases. There are currently 31,763 active cases, besides 32,127 cumulative recoveries and 823 deaths, translating into a recovery rate of about 50%. Visakhapatnam contributed a record 1,049 new cases, followed by East Godavari (891), Guntur (842), Kurnool (678) and West Godavari (672). Of the 65 deaths, 15 were reported from Guntur, 10 from Krishna, eight from West Godavari, seven from East Godavari, five each from Chittoor and Kurnool, four from Vizianagaram, three each from Prakasam, Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam, and one each from Kadapa and Nellore districts. East Godavari became the first district in the state to cross the 8,000-case mark on Wednesday. Of the 2,895 cases identified from among foreign returnees and migrants from other states, 2,737 people have already been discharged from the treating facilities, translating into a case recovery rate of 95% in these two categories. AP also conducted 49,553 tests, the highest on a single day so far. While 30,018 samples were tested through RT-PCR and Truenat machines, rapid antigen testing kits were utilised to screen the remaining 19,535 people. The state has so far conducted 14.35 lakh tests. In view of the increasing number of cases, the state government has decided to set up help desks at all Covid-19 hospitals and care centres to facilitate the relatives to seek the health status of the patients. The help desks will be located at the entrances of the hospitals. The help desk will also get a telephone line to provide information regarding the patients to their relatives. They will also inform about the availability of beds at these facilities to the general public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-breaks-daily-record-of-cases-deaths-in-highest-one-day-spike/articleshow/77115244.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Covid-19: Andhra Pradesh breaks daily record of cases, deaths in highest one-day spike||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported its biggest single-day spike of 6,045 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the cumulative caseload to 64,713. The death toll increased to 823 with 65 more people succumbing to the virus, which is also the highest single-day toll in the state so far. On the positive side, 6,533 patients were declared cured on Wednesday, outnumbering the new cases. There are currently 31,763 active cases, besides 32,127 cumulative recoveries and 823 deaths, translating into a recovery rate of about 50%. Visakhapatnam contributed a record 1,049 new cases, followed by East Godavari (891), Guntur (842), Kurnool (678) and West Godavari (672). Of the 65 deaths, 15 were reported from Guntur, 10 from Krishna, eight from West Godavari, seven from East Godavari, five each from Chittoor and Kurnool, four from Vizianagaram, three each from Prakasam, Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam, and one each from Kadapa and Nellore districts. East Godavari became the first district in the state to cross the 8,000-case mark on Wednesday. Of the 2,895 cases identified from among foreign returnees and migrants from other states, 2,737 people have already been discharged from the treating facilities, translating into a case recovery rate of 95% in these two categories. AP also conducted 49,553 tests, the highest on a single day so far. While 30,018 samples were tested through RT-PCR and Truenat machines, rapid antigen testing kits were utilised to screen the remaining 19,535 people. The state has so far conducted 14.35 lakh tests. In view of the increasing number of cases, the state government has decided to set up help desks at all Covid-19 hospitals and care centres to facilitate the relatives to seek the health status of the patients. The help desks will be located at the entrances of the hospitals. The help desk will also get a telephone line to provide information regarding the patients to their relatives. They will also inform about the availability of beds at these facilities to the general public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-breaks-daily-record-of-cases-deaths-in-highest-one-day-spike/articleshow/77118454.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Charity chief warns of NGOs with certain tags||AHMEDABAD: The charity commissioner has warned about the mushrooming of NGOs which have phrases such as ‘human rights’, ‘consumer rights/protection’ and ‘anti-corruption’ in their names, and instructed subordinates to keep close watch on their activities, as many have been found to be misusing such names to intimidate people. On Tuesday, charity commissioner Y M Shukla sent lists of NGOs with such names to the RTO and the police authorities, saying that the names of such organizations are usually emblazoned on vehicles and should be removed. “It is always welcome if the trusts, which are registered for noble purposes, act accordingly. Instead, many have been seen using names including ‘human rights’, ‘consumer rights’, ‘consumer protection’, ‘anti-corruption’ committee and council to throw their weight around. Such activity is required to be deprecated and checked immediately,” reads a circular issued by the commissioner. It further says, “Under the garb of such names, many trusts seem to have been involved in anti-social activities. Many try to give an impression among business community that they are government agencies and intimidate them. It is necessary to stop them. They also tarnish the image of other genuine organizations.” Shukla said that there are some 200 organizations that have the words ‘consumer rights’ or ‘consumer protection’ in their registered names. There are more than 50 trusts bearing names that include ‘human rights’. He issued instructions to his subordinate offices to check the credentials of such organizations when they come up with change reports, audited accounts and to see if there is any complaint pending against them. All deputies have been instructed to report back if they find any issue with the functioning of such organizations and their registration will be cancelled in accordance with the law. The charity commissioner issued instructions to send details of all those NGOs registered under name bearing ‘consumer rights’ to the department of legal metrology for verification of their activities. He has also supplied a list to the Regional Transport Office and the DGP, suggesting that they immediately remove plates bearing the names of such organizations from vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/charity-chief-warns-of-ngos-with-certain-tags/articleshow/77116818.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Woman accuses youth of clicking her photos||AHMEDABAD: A woman from Gomtipur lodged a complaint on Tuesday with Gomtipur police accusing a youth, Vijay Chavda, of clicking her photos from a terrace while she was taking a bath in a bathroom open to the sky. The 33-year-old woman has also accused Vijay’s father Tribhuvan and two brothers Ajay and Jeetendra of abetting Vijay and not restraining him, and attacking the woman and her sister. Police have registered an FIR under Sections 354 (c), 324, 323 and 294 (b) of IPC and 135 (1) of Gujarat Police Act. “We are verifying the details given in the FIR and probing the case,” said inspector C B Tandel of Gomtipur police station. According to FIR details, the bathroom is a small enclosure open to the sky and created by fitting a cloth partition between the houses of the accused and of the woman. The woman has stated that at about 11.30am on Tuesday, when she was taking bath, she suddenly noticed Vijay taking her photographs from the terrace of their house.“The woman rebuked Vijay, who ran indoors. After dressing up, the woman went to Vijay’s father and complained about his son,” said a police official.But, instead of listening to the woman, all four accused began abusing her, and then began to beat her. Hearing cries, the woman’s sister and brother came. Meanwhile, Jeetendra, Vijay’s brother, brought a machete and hit the woman’s sister on her hand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-accuses-youth-of-clicking-her-photos/articleshow/77116807.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Woman accuses father, brother of embezzlement||AHMEDABAD: Pooja Ashok Sirvani, 32, of Kubernagar lodged a complaint with Sardarnagar police on Tuesday accusing her father Ashok Sirvani and brother Ravi Sirvani, both from Kubernagar, of misappropriating Rs 6.75 lakh and jewellery of Rs 4 lakh she had got from her husband at the time of her divorce. Police have registered a case under Sections 406, 420, 323 and 114 of the IPC. According to the FIR, Pooja stays with her parents and brother Ravi in a rented house at Kubernagar. In 2014, she had wed Haresh Hariyani of Ulhasnagar. “One year later the couple divorced and Hariyani gave her the money and the jewellery her parents had given her at her wedding,” said a police official. The complainant said that 10 months ago, she came to know that her father and brother had taken the money and jewellery for their own use. According to the FIR, on March 3, her brother beat her over the issue and she called the police control room for help. “At that time, her parents had promised her to give back the money after the lockdown,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-accuses-father-brother-of-embezzlement/articleshow/77116253.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Amaravati||Covid-19: Andhra Pradesh breaks daily record of cases, deaths in highest one-day spike||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported its biggest single-day spike of 6,045 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the cumulative caseload to 64,713. The death toll increased to 823 with 65 more people succumbing to the virus, which is also the highest single-day toll in the state so far. On the positive side, 6,533 patients were declared cured on Wednesday, outnumbering the new cases. There are currently 31,763 active cases, besides 32,127 cumulative recoveries and 823 deaths, translating into a recovery rate of about 50%. Visakhapatnam contributed a record 1,049 new cases, followed by East Godavari (891), Guntur (842), Kurnool (678) and West Godavari (672). Of the 65 deaths, 15 were reported from Guntur, 10 from Krishna, eight from West Godavari, seven from East Godavari, five each from Chittoor and Kurnool, four from Vizianagaram, three each from Prakasam, Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam, and one each from Kadapa and Nellore districts. East Godavari became the first district in the state to cross the 8,000-case mark on Wednesday. Of the 2,895 cases identified from among foreign returnees and migrants from other states, 2,737 people have already been discharged from the treating facilities, translating into a case recovery rate of 95% in these two categories. AP also conducted 49,553 tests, the highest on a single day so far. While 30,018 samples were tested through RT-PCR and Truenat machines, rapid antigen testing kits were utilised to screen the remaining 19,535 people. The state has so far conducted 14.35 lakh tests. In view of the increasing number of cases, the state government has decided to set up help desks at all Covid-19 hospitals and care centres to facilitate the relatives to seek the health status of the patients. The help desks will be located at the entrances of the hospitals. The help desk will also get a telephone line to provide information regarding the patients to their relatives. They will also inform about the availability of beds at these facilities to the general public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-breaks-daily-record-of-cases-deaths-in-highest-one-day-spike/articleshow/77118453.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: ‘Efforts on to identify cops seen thrashing man in clip’||NEW DELHI: There was quite a bit of furore when a video surfaced amid the violence in northeast Delhi in February that showed policemen in riot gear threatening some men into singing the national anthem. Delhi Police has now informed a Delhi court that “the four video clips in which police personnel are seen beating Faizan and other individuals” had been taken on record and “efforts were on” to identify the men in uniform involved. This police response was to the plea of Faizan’s mother seeking preservation of CCTV footage and documents related to the alleged crime. “The blood-stained clothes of deceased Faizan and his broken mobile phone have been seized from the complainant (mother)… and sent to FSL (Forensic Science Laboratory) and a report is awaited. The four video clippings in which police personnel are seen beating Faizan and other individuals have been taken on record and efforts are being made to enhance the quality of the video clippings through technical assistance in order to identify the police personnel,” said chief metropolitan magistrate Purshottam Pathak referring to the police’s reply. Faizan, who worked at a chicken meat shop, died while being treated in hospital. His younger brother, Naeem, identified Faizan as the man shown unconscious in the video. The police reply also claimed that the faces of its personnel were obscured by helmets in the clips except for an officer who did not have a helmet on. “However, his face is also unclear because the video clip has been shot from a distance,” it added. The court noted that police sent reminders to the medical superintendent of Lok Nayak Hospital seeking clarifications on the object that caused injuries on Faizan’s head. Police used the clips to identify possible locations or houses from where the videos could have been shot. “On the basis of these locations identified, persons residing in these houses/buildings have been examined but all of them denied recording the video clips. They are being examined further and their mobile phones are being sought to track the source mobile phones,” the police reply stated. The police's reply added that details of the policemen deployed at Kardampuri Pulia, 66 Foota Road, on February 24 had been obtained and were being scrutinised. “Due to the large deployment, this exercise is mammoth, which is being expedited,” the reply claimed. “Efforts are being made to identify the police personnel seen assaulting the deceased Faizan on 66 Foota Road, Kardampuri Pulia.” According to the cops, Faizan was injured on February 24 and his statement, given to a Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital doctor who gave him preliminary treatment, was “Physical assault by a mob at around 4 pm”. Of the five individuals who were taken to GTB Hospital for treatment by men of the Jyoti Nagar police station, two were kept under treatment at the hospital, while Faizan and two others were discharged. “The three discharged persons were reluctant to go to their respective homes in view of the communal tension and rioting in the area. Accordingly, as per their wish, they were permitted to stay in Jyoti Nagar police station for their own safety,” police claimed. The reply stated that Faizan's parents visited the police station on February 25 but did not complain of their son being assaulted or manhandled during his stay there. However, contrary to these claims, Faizan’s mother has alleged that after “grievously” injuring Faizan and others, the policemen illegally detained them at Jyoti Nagar police station instead of letting them go home. The mother's lawyer said the cops should give a clarification on the preservation of documents at the police station and the court, accordingly, directed the investigating officer to file a report in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/efforts-on-to-identify-cops-seen-thrashing-man-in-clip/articleshow/77136212.cms||Aamir Khan
July 23, 2020||Nagpur||Doctors face burnout risk, alarm bells for health care system||NAGPUR: Health officer of Amravati Municipal Corporation (AMC), Dr Vishal Kale, last Friday tendered his resignation citing ‘work pressure’. While he withdrew the resignation on Monday following intervention by AMC commissioner Prashant Rode, it’s an alarming development. Doctors are continuously working for the last four months due to Covid-19 pandemic and if they are feeling exhausted then it could cause a major jolt to the entire system. Doctors at the three Covid hospitals in the city are working 24X7 for the last four months. Those working in front-line (mostly resident doctors) get mandatory seven-day rest or alternate duties after working in the Covid ward. But seniors and administrators — deans, medical superintendents, nodal officers and heads of important departments — are working without a single day of leave or weekly off. In the health department and civil surgeon’s office almost all employees including the civil surgeon are working without off or leave. Doctors with administrative responsibilities are already dealing with challenges like inadequate staff, increasing number of cases, complicated paper work and long hours at office. All this is now taking toll on mental and physical abilities of these doctors. “Every doctor is under tremendous work pressure. Government hospitals have been converted into Covid-19 hospitals. We are dealing with Covid as well as non-Covid patients,” said dean of one of the GMCs in Vidarbha. Being government servants, these doctors cannot give any excuse in the crisis time and give results. “Workload can be handled if we get proper support from patients and common people. We understand their expectations from the hospitals, and are trying to provide best services to them,” said a former dean of Yavatmal GMCH who is now leading several Covid missions on state-level. Doctors expect responsible behaviour from patients while using common toilets and viewing common television set in wards. “Lockdown or no lockdown, it’s everybody’s responsibility to follow rules and restrict the spread of infection if we want to maintain our health system intact. Everyone in the medical field is continuously working from last four months and the Covid-19 peak is yet to arrive in Vidarbha,” said a senior health official from Nagpur adding that mere beds don’t treat patients, but doctors do.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/doctors-face-burnout-risk-alarm-bells-for-health-care-system/articleshow/77116856.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Nizam’s £35 million for grandsons, GOI; UK court rejects other claims||LONDON: The Nizam’s money, held in a London bank for about seven decades, will now go to Nizam VII Mir Osman Ali Khan’s grandsons Mukarram Jah and Muffakham Jah and the Government of India (GOI). The London High Court on Wednesday turned down the claims of other descendants of the last ruler of the princely Hyderabad state. Najaf Ali Khan, grandson of the last Nizam and about 120 others of the Nizam’s family, claimed that they had been unjustly deprived of their share of the £35 million (Rs 332 crore) which was split in a confidential agreement between the GOI and the Nizam’s two grandsons. But the London High Court prevented Najaf Ali Khan and other claimants from getting their hands on the money. The London court last year decreed that the money belongs to the GOI and Mukarram Jah and Muffakham Jah while turning down the claim of Pakistan that the money, famously known as Nizam Funds, belonged to it. The court had also directed Pakistan to pay legal costs. The case, which was pending since late 1940s, was resolved in favour of India and the two grandsons of the Nizam. However, Najaf Ali Khan, who heads the Nizam’s Family Welfare Association, and others claimed a share in the funds. The court heard the case on Wednesday. Najaf Ali Khan appeared via Skype at the London High Court on Wednesday — without any lawyer — seeking to get the judgment handed down on October 2, 2019, by Justice Marcus Smith “reopened” at which Smith ruled that the Nizam VII was beneficially entitled to the £35 million, as were those claiming in the right of him, namely his two grandsons and India. But Smith dismissed the application. The dispute had centred on £1 million and one guinea that on September 20, 1948, was transferred from a government of Hyderabad bank account by Nawab Moin Nawaz Jung, then finance minister of the princely state, to a bank account in London held by Pakistan’s then high commissioner for the UK Habib Ibrahim Rahimtoola during the Police Action. It grew to £35 million. Mukarram Jah and his younger brother Muffakham Jah, claim to be the beneficial owners as the fund was gifted to them in a trust set up by their grandfather in 1963. India also contended its interest as in 1965 the Nizam had assigned to India his claim to the fund. India, the administrator of the Nizam's estate and the princes later reached a confidential settlement on how to split the money. On Wednesday, Najaf Ali Khan told the court that he wanted Smith to review his own judgment and make a declaration that the estate of the Nizam VII was solely entitled to the fund. “I along with 116 heirs of the Nizam VII had no idea what was the logic or method the administrator of the estate applied to do this confidential agreement between India and the princes,” Khan said. “There is only £400,000 kept in the estate we have just come to know… 116 legal heirs and me form part of the estate of Nizam VII.” He said the judge needed to reconsider whether the two princes are the only legal heirs of Nizam VII and whether they are entitled to the fund and whether India should have a claim. “The 1963 assignment to India lost its affect by the 1967 trust making it null and void,” Khan said. “The administrator has wrongly allotted funds to India. Me and 116 heirs of Nizam are directly affected. The administrator kept us in the dark the whole time. He told us our claim will be done after the money comes to him. We trusted the administrator to look after our best interests yet he failed. We live hand to mouth and could not afford a full-time lawyer and cannot pursue any further claim due to our chronic financial hardship,” he said. Dismissing his application, Smith said: “Chris Lintott, the administrator appointed to represent the estate of Nizam VII, didn’t give any argument to suggest there was any alternative to either India or the princes being entitled to the monies that were in court. I’ve already decided that India and the princes are entitled to the fund. Neither India nor the princes were claiming as inheritors of the estate,” he said, explaining India was claiming by virtue of the 1965 assignment and the princes by virtue of the 1963 trust. The fact is the monies have already been paid out. There can be no basis upon which an order I make after trial can be reopened by me.” In February 2020 the High Commission of India confirmed it had received its share of the £35 million, which is thought to be substantial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nizams-35m-for-grandsons-goi-uk-rejects-other-claims/articleshow/77117282.cms||NAOMI CANTON
July 23, 2020||Jaipur||20 companies participate in warehouse pre-bid meeting||Jaipur: As Jaipur has turned out to be a central location for many districts and neighbouring states, representatives from more than 20 companies have expressed interest to set up warehouses in the city. On Wednesday, a pre-bid meeting was held for these investors by the JDA. At the meeting, the JDA apprised the investors about the strategic locations, which provide seamless connectivity of these warehouses to other states. The civic body has identified nine locations on the outskirts of the city for these warehouses. Seven plots measuring 1,100 to 6,402 square-metre in Muhana village near Ring Road project have been identified. Similarly, four plots have been earmarked in Ropada village near Ring Road on Agra Road side. The plot size would be between 3,995 square-metre and 25,198 square-metre. “If companies develop warehouses in these areas, they can definitely get proper connectivity with national capital as Jaipur comes under a counter magnetic city. Moreover, it is not far from Agra and nearby areas where lot of industries are established. The investors would be in the centre point of the golden triangle,” an official said. Other locations identified for the construction of warehouses are Siroli village in Sanganer, Kapadiyawas (Ajmer Road), Dharmpura (Kalwar), Akeda (Sikar Road), Goner and Kailashpura in Sanganear. Finding an innovative way to earn revenue, the JDA in February had decided to prepare an action plan to sell its land. The deputy commissioners were asked to include replanning of the plots, fix auction rates, methodology of auction and wide publicity of JDA assets in the action plan. It was also stressed on the development of warehouse scheme on the land of Ring Road in Zone-11 and new plots on JDA land in Zone-9, 10, 11 and 14. “We also told the investors that the Ring Road project will be operational in August and it will connect Agra-Tonk and Ajmer Road. Similarly, second phase of Ring Road, which connects Agra and Delhi, will also begin soon,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/20-companies-participate-in-warehouse-pre-bid-meeting/articleshow/77116845.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to give 10% subsidy for fisheries||CHANDIGARH: In a bid to promote fisheries, Haryana government has decided to provide a subsidy up to 40% to people belonging to general category and up to 60% to women and scheduled castes to start their business, a spokesperson of the department said. Unemployed youth can also earn a better livelihood by adopting fisheries as a business option, the spokesperson said, adding that no qualification is required to start this business. Any person starting this business needs only one acre of land. Any interested person can start fish farming on his own land or by taking land on lease. He said that on one acre of land, a special pond needs to be constructed for fish farming. After this, the cost of construction is subsidized directly through DBT to the bank account of the beneficiary. Sharing details about recirculating aquaculture system, he said earlier, fish farming was done in ponds, which used to yield about 5 to 7 tonnes of fish only. But now, by setting up a fixed overhead tank, the cultivation will increase to 30 to 35 tonnes through the recirculating aquaculture systems. With this, the profits of fishermen will also increase manifold. He said this cultivation can be done in both sweet and salt water. Mainly, fish species including rohu, catla, mrigal, common carp, grass carp and Indian major carp are cultivated in fresh water. Similarly, white shrimp can be cultivated in saltwater. Shrimp is sold in the market at around Rs 300 to 350 per kg. Approximately 30 tonnes of fisheries per hectare can be cultivated, which can be a good profitable business, he informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-to-give-subsidy-to-promote-fisheries/articleshow/77116852.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: Villagers oppose dumping of trash||PUNE: The residents of Uruli Phursungi have once again started opposing the dumping of trash in their vicinity, casting a shadow on garbage-lifting in the city. They have decided not to allow garbage-carting vans enter their village and are opposed to construction of a new garbage processing plant there. The garbage-carrying trucks were stopped at the depot on Wednesday as a mark of protest. “The civic authorities had assured us that they will not build any new plant here. But the construction of a new garbage processing unit is under way. So, we have decided not to allow dumping,” said Bhagwan Bhadale, one of the agitators. Madhav Jagtap, the head of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s anti-encroachment department, said after visiting the spot that the PMC would not stop the garbage transport. “We shall continue with the garbage-dumping as per the rules and the regulations. The civic administration will have to take legal action against the agitators, if any unlawful means are used to create obstacles,” he said. The civic body had appealed to the villagers not to launch any agitations now and allow dumping of garbage in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The same impasse between the PMC and the villagers of Uruli Phursungi was seen in March this year. It ended after 21 days. The civic administration resumed dumping trash in the garbage depot after the matter was resolved. The garbage is being dumped at the bio-mining plant at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/villagers-oppose-dumping-of-trash/articleshow/77116857.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Suspend MD, govt tells Dudhsagar dairy||GANDHINAGAR: Swinging into action as the ghee adulteration racket involving Dudhsagar dairy gained huge proportions, the registrar of co-operatives asked the board of directors of the dairy to suspend its managing director on ground of dereliction of duty. The registrar of co-operatives also asked the milk audit office, Mehsana, to initiate criminal proceedings against all involved in the adulteration racket. D P Desai, registrar, co-operative societies, said in an order that there is a clear case of negligence against the managing director of Dudhsagar dairy and it is not prudent for him to continue as MD while an investigation is on. Investigations so far have revealed that 600 metric tonnes of ghee were adulterated with palm oil at a unit operated by Dudhsagar dairy in Rajasthan, causing a loss of Rs 40 crore to the dairy. So far, ghee of 118 batches have been found to be adulterated with 16% palm oil. Another 512 metric tonnes of packed ghee is still lying at branch godowns of the dairy and their samples are being collected for tests. If any of the samples are found to be adulterated, these will be sent back to Dudhsagar dairy and it will be charged for the loss. The official said in the order that even as investigations are on, the Food and Drugs Control Administration (FDCA) ought to carry out an independent investigation into the adulteration racket. The order states it appears that the adulteration took place in the month of June 2020, as GCMMF had written two letters, dated July 3 and July 7, to Dudhsagar dairy on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/suspend-md-govt-tells-dudhsagar-dairy/articleshow/77116831.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Jaipur||Corona deaths 2%, but fear taking toll on mental health||Jaipur: When 40-year-old Lokesh Yadav (name changed) was diagnosed with Covid-19, he had a fear that he might die of the disease. “I was diagnosed with Covid-19 on June 1 and was taken to RUHS Hospital for treatment. They took care of me and I was discharged on June 7. During this period, I was under constant stress and depression. At one point of time, when I was tested positive, I thought it is all over. If I was provided with proper counselling by psychologists, I could have overcomed the fear. Now, I have recovered and think that I should have overcome that fear,” said Yadav. SMS Hospital doctors stressed on the need for regular counselling of those infected. According to the doctors, though the mortality due to Covid is a little above 2%, at least 30% of the patients fear for their lives. Patients need counselling regularly to bring down anxiety levels, said Dr Prakash Keswani, senior professor (medicine), SMS Hospital, who is part of the core group of doctors for Covid treatment. Covid has taken a toll on the mental health of the people. In some of the cases, patients develop suicidal tendencies. “Significant psychological impacts of Covid have been observed ranging from anxiety, fear, sleep problem, uncertainty, depression and many more. In extreme cases, it may sometimes lead to hopelessness, helplessness and suicidal tendencies. Appropriate counseling at the right time can certainly help such persons at this time of crisis,” said Dr Akhilesh Jain, head of the department (psychiatry), ESI Model Hospital. At a private hospital, neurologists conducted a study, which has been approved for getting published in a national journal. It claimed that 53.8 % epilepsy patients worried about getting Covid and could not stop thoughts coming and bothering them. Besides, 50.8% of those were afraid of Covid-19 and 15.9 % thought that they had been infected by corona, despite being reassured by other people.“It is seen that a lot of people are leading life under fear of Covid. They need proper counselling to prevent them from anxiety, depression and stress. People should not fear but they have to take proper precautions. They should wear face masks, follow social distancing norms and frequently wash their hands with soap,” said Dr RK Sureka, former professor (neurology), at SMS Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/corona-deaths-2-but-fear-taking-toll-on-mental-health/articleshow/77116853.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Aarogya Setu is also a predictive tool’||V Kamakoti is the professor of computer science at IIT-Madras and a member of National Security Advisory Board (NSAB). In an interview with TOI, he explains how Ahmedabad leveraged Aarogya Setu data to contain the spread of Covid-19 and how other cities can emulate the model.Aarogya Setu has been in the news throughout the epidemic. How can it help fight Covid-19?There were three parts of its design: user interface, security and performance and data interpretation. The app is generating a lot of data and our team is involved in making sense of it. We generally see Aarogya Setu as an indicative tool, but with the data it generates, it can be very effective in predictions. Can you elaborate on the ‘Ahmedabad Model’ and how it worked?Through Rajiv Kumar Gupta, ACS, we got associated with the Ahmedabad team in June. The data is available to all the cities and states. But currently we are actively associated with only Ahmedabad. We provided the team with forecasts and identified clusters that could peak. On the ground, the AMC team took action such as setting up micro-containment zones and conducting intensive testing. It helped contain the spread in key areas. How does the data forecast peaks for specific areas?We have understood the spread of Covid-19. If there is one case in a specific area today, there could be 80 in a fortnight. In the next fortnight, it can grow four-fold. Thus, every case you quickly detect and address today can prevent hundreds of cases in a matter of a couple of months. We had divided the city areas according to their postal zones and had identified the areas where there was clustering of symptoms. Do you think the model can be emulated in other parts of the country?Surely. A team of data scientists working with me had forecast the peak and flattening of curve for six major cities of India. Ahmedabad is the only city that has bucked the trend. The success is partly due to the on-ground action such as the deployment of Dhanvantari Raths and micro-zoning of clusters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/aarogya-setu-is-also-a-predictive-tool/articleshow/77116860.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Explore multiple choice questions for final-year exams||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Wednesday asked the University Grants Commission (UGC) to clarify if the options of multiple choice questions (MCQ), assignments and presentations can be used to evaluate students appearing for final year examinations. Justice Prathiba M Singh sought UGC’s stand by Friday, while noting that various universities in the country have opted for alternative mode for conducting examination so that students did not face any inconvenience amid the pandemic. It also wondered if it is right to have a timed online examination when so many issues can crop up. “We live in the heart of Delhi and there was no electricity or connectivity for hours due to the rain,” the bench remarked, highlighting the problems students may face. It also took note of a survey report filed by an intervenor in the matter which said that most of the students are against timed online examination. However, DU tried to reassure the court that students do not need internet continuously as they just need it to download first and then upload within the allotted time period. DU said it is unable to find any other way, but the court expressed unhappiness and said that there are more than 200 universities and some of them have finished the examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/explore-multiple-choice-questions-for-final-yr-exams/articleshow/77116258.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man held for murdering wife||AHMEDABAD: A 35-year-old man from Danilimda, Javed Shaikh, allegedly killed his wife, Zubina Shaikh, late on Tuesday night as he suspected she was ‘doing black magic on him’. Police said the couple have four children, who are now with his sister. ACP K division Milap Patel said they detained Shaikh and have sent him for a pre-arrest Covid-19 test. According to the FIR registered by the police, when they were on patrol on Saturday night they got a message saying that a man had killed his wife at Khwajanagar in Danilimda. “We rushed to the spot and found the deceased dead in the kitchen of the house with her throat slit while the accused was on the terrace of the house, surrounded by people. We went up and brought him down,” Patel said. Police sources said that he told them that he had killed his wife because she was doing black magic on him. Police filed the complaint themselves because no relative of the deceased could be found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-held-for-murdering-wife/articleshow/77116265.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Jaipur||Unknown men kill farmer in Baran||KOTA: A 60-year-old man, who was attacked by unknown people with sticks and sharp weapons while he was asleep under a tin shade near a well in his agriculture field on intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday in Sakatpur village under Atru police station of Baran district, succumbed to injuries at Baran district hospital on Wednesday. Police have lodged a case of murder against unidentified people and initiated an investigation into the matter. His body was handed over to family members after postmortem by the medical board. The deceased was identified as Krishanmurari Mali, Atru SHO Harlal said. Mali’s brother, who lives nearby, woke up on hearing the barking of dogs around 1 am and spotted a few persons running away besides hearing the moaning of an injured man. Mali sustained critical injuries in his head and chest and was rushed to Baran district hospital where he succumbed to injuries around 3 am, the SHO said. Mali was a farmer and lived away from his home under a tin shade in his agriculture field, he added. His family members did not point out any suspects nor disclosed any enmity of the deceased man with anybody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/unknown-men-kill-farmer-in-baran/articleshow/77116851.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Surat||DGGI detects Rs 3cr evasion at Surat||Surat: The Directorate General of GST Intelligence unearthed GST evasion racket of Rs 3.4 crore of the firms in Surat and Kheda districts engaged in the transport, textile machinery and plastic tank businesses on Wednesday. Official sources said that Kanhaiya Cargo Movers in Surat connived with many textile traders to avail GST credit fraudulently on the fake purchases of goods and return of goods from Kolkata. The transporter prepared fake delivery challans and returned the transportation charges received from such traders through an agent in cash. The agent charged 1.5-2% commission on such cash return. An amount of Rs 20 lakh in cash was recovered from the premises of the agent and GST evasion of Rs 60 lakh was unearthed. Preliminary investigation revealed that bogus purchase and return of goods to the tune of Rs 150 crore was done evade taxes. In another case, the textile machinery manufacturer in Surat was found indulging in under valuation of its final product by receiving part of its sale proceeds in cash, thus evading payment of GST to the tune of Rs 80 lakh. The manufacturer paid Rs 68 lakh to the DGGI officials on the spot. A plastic tank manufacturer in Kheda, JET Fibre India Pvt Ltd availed Input Tax Credit (ITC) on the bogus invoices issued by one Rishabh Packaging and Shreeji Plastics, based in Ahmedabad, without actual receipt of goods at their factory premises. DGGI officials carried out simultaneous raids in Kheda, Ankleshwar, Dahej and Ahmedabad and unearthed evasion of GST to the tune of Rs 2 crore. The company ITC to the tune of Rs 10 crore showing the fake receipt of inputs and paid GST on the spot to the DGGI officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dggi-detects-rs-3cr-evasion-at-surat/articleshow/77115318.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gold hits high of Rs 51,900; silver passes Rs 60k a kg||Ahmedabad: Continuing its upward rally, gold price once again touched a record high in the Ahmedabad market, settling at Rs 51,900 per 10 gram on Wednesday. In a single day, the yellow metal price surged by Rs 600 against Tuesday’s Rs 51,300 per 10 gram. Meanwhile, even silver prices rose sharply, racing past the Rs 60,000-mark to touch Rs 60,900 per kg on Wednesday. Analysts said that prices of both precious metals went up reflecting the upward trend in the international market, amid rise in safe haven investments. During the day, gold prices did touch a record-high level of Rs 52,050 per 10 grams for some time, breaching the Rs 52,000-mark. “Precious metal prices have soared to a high because of concerns over the Covid-19 pandemic continuing to persist and as a result, safe haven investments went up. Gold continued to rally amid rising expectations of further stimulus by the governments across the world in the wake of the future economic outlook. Meanwhile, silver too rallied over growing safe haven investments, in addition to an upsurge in industrial demand too,” said Haresh Acharya, director, India Bullion and Jewellers’ Association (IBJA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gold-hits-high-of-rs-51900-silver-passes-rs-60k-a-kg/articleshow/77116289.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Jaipur||RSRTC bus passenger load at 70%||Jaipur: With its increasing frequency of services following Covid-19 and other efforts, the state roadways became the most preferred means of transport in corona times.The Rajasthan State Roadways Transport Corporation has been witnessing a passenger load of over 70%, while railways is getting a passenger load fluctuating from 40% to 45%. However, the airlines are the worst affected as people are yet to show much interest in this mode of transport as its passenger load is just 20%. According to RSRTC authorities, intra-state buses like Jaipur to Jodhpur, Jaipur to Ajmer, Jaipur to Udaipur and many others are getting passenger load of over 70%. “Firstly, we get the buses sanitized just a few minutes prior to the boarding of passengers. Our drivers and conductors carry sanitizers and also wear masks. Also, many of our buses take end-to-end passengers as there are hardly any halts. It is gratifying that passengers have shown inclination towards our services,” said Naveen Jain, CMD, RSRTC, while taking to TOI on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rsrtc-bus-passenger-load-at-70/articleshow/77116863.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana amends rules on exams for entering state civil services||CHANDIGARH: Haryana government has brought in amendments to the Haryana Civil Services (Executive Branch) Rules, 2008, with which it has made changes to the format of HCS entrance exam. The new rules will be called the Haryana Civil Services (Executive Branch) Amendment Rules, 2020, and a notification to this effect has been issued by the personnel department. According to amended rules, there will be two papers of 100 marks each (objective type/multiple choice type) in preliminary exam. Questions related to general studies (existing and notified syllabus) will be asked in Paper I. There will be a civil services aptitude test under Paper II, which includes comprehension, inter-personal and communication skills, logical reasoning, analytical ability, decision making, problem-solving, general mental ability and basic numeracy, and data interpretation. An official said both papers will be objective type (multiple choice) questions and each question paper will be two hour long. Both papers will be bilingual, English and Hindi. In addition, for each wrong answer, one-fourth of a mark will be deducted. Paper-II will be a qualifying paper with minimum marks fixed at 33%. The result of preliminary exams will be based only on the marks obtained in Paper I, provided that the candidate secure 33% marks in the Paper-II.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-amends-rules-on-exams-for-entering-state-civil-services/articleshow/77116858.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Amritsar||‘Fearing for life’ in jail, dera followers file bail plea||BATHINDA: Five followers of Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda, who have been imprisoned in connection with sacrilege cases, have moved an application in the court of duty magistrate Suresh Kumar for bail till the pendency of the case in court. Dera followers Randeep Singh, Baljit Singh, Ranjit Singh, Nishan Singh and Narinder Sharma have stated in the application that they feared for life in jail. Earlier, dera follower Mohinderpal Bittu was killed in high-security Nabha jail on June 22, 2019. The dera followers have also stated that they have no role in theft of bir and they have been falsely implicated in the case. They have also claimed that CBI had given them the clean chit. The court issued notice to state and special investigations team(SIT) for July 24 and directed to produce relevant record in court. In the meanwhile, a day after a Faridkot court issued arrest warrants against Punjab Police SP Baljit Singh, a bench of high court on Wednesday stayed his arrest till July 27. The court has issued a notice to SIT to produce relevant record in court. The court of ilaqa magistrate Ekta Uppal had on Tuesday issued arrest warrants. The SIT had stated that SP had been summoned twice to join investigation, but he did not come.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/fearing-for-life-in-jail-dera-followers-file-bail-plea/articleshow/77116864.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Thaltej tutor held for sodomising 12-year-old boy||AHMEDABAD: A complaint was lodged at Sola police station late on Tuesday against a 21-year-old tuition teacher from Thaltej, Parth Barot, for allegedly sodomising a 12-year-old boy repeatedly, starting about a month ago. Barot had been engaged to give the boy tuitions as his school was shut due to the Covid-19 situation. Sola police registered a case of under IPC Section 377 (unnatural sex). According to police, the boy started suffering from diarrhoea for around a month, which did not go away despite being prescribed medication by doctors. Doctors then examined him, and concluded that he had been penetrated anally. When doctors asked the boy what had happened in the presence of his parents, he told them that he was being sodomised by his tuition teacher, Parth Barot.  “The accused used to threaten the boy, saying he would commit suicide and name him if he did not give in to his demands,” said Inspector J P Jadeja of Sola police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/thaltej-tutor-held-for-sodomising-12-yr-old-boy/articleshow/77116844.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Nashik||Docs heckled by relatives of deceased patient in Yeola||Nashik: A team of doctors and other personnel were heckled and verbally abused by the family members of a deceased patient at a dedicated Covid health centre on Monday night. While the doctors concerned have not registered a police complaint, they have presented a memorandum to the Yeola taluka police protesting against the incident.The Yeola police said a 65-year-old woman, who was admitted to the Covid facility, had died during the course of treatment. The police said that a 72-year-old person was found positive in the Nagde village. While contact-tracing, the health machinery found three persons of a family to be infected. The three Covid-19 infected patients, including the 65-year-old woman, were shifted to the Covid facility at Nagarsul in Yeola. When the elderly woman succumbed to the infection, her irate family members verbally abused the doctors at the Covid care facility. However, the issue was resolved following an intervention by the police.The Yeola taluka police said no person was injured in the incident. They added that ever since the Nagarsul rural hospital has been converted into a Covid facility, they have put up adequate bandobast there.The Yeola police said the deceased woman’s son is an API with the Bhusawal police, who was told of the consequences of assaulting doctors at a Covid facility. “Though no formal complaint has been registered, we would be preparing a report and submitting the same to our senior officers,” said police inspector Anil Bhawari of the Yeola taluka police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/docs-heckled-by-relatives-of-deceased-patient-in-yeola/articleshow/77114075.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Mangaluru||Pandemic breathes life into uncultivated land on coast||MANGALURU: The homecoming of several people from undivided Dakshina Kannada living abroad and other parts of the country in the wake of the global pandemic has given a new lease of life to uncultivated land here. Arun Shetty, a resident of Nailady in Udupi taluk and his family members, after their return from different parts of the country, have come together to grow crops on their ancestral land that had remained uncultivated for years. Like Arun, many others who had left the coastal district to find greener pastures have returned home — some have lost their jobs while others are working from home. “Soon after completion of graduation in Bhandarkars’ Arts and Science College, my siblings and cousins moved to Bengaluru, Maharashtra, Dubai, Bahrain and other places for work. The nationwide lockdown motivated us to resume cultivation, which we were involved in before moving out. Now we are all working in paddy fields which had remained barren for several years. There are no signs of going back to work for a few months and this is the best thing to do,” said Arun. He had worked in Bahrain for a decade and later moved to Bengaluru and set up a hotel in the city. The lockdown forced him to discontinue the operations and now he is firm about not returning to the city. “I am not continuing my business activities and my next role is to transform myself as an agriculturist,” he said. Sreenath and Sampath Kumar, residents of Marody in Belthangady taluk, who returned from Mumbai, are busy maintaining their agricultural land. The youngsters said they help their farmers de-husk arecanuts and do other jobs in their free time. “We are now employed,” they said. Fifty-eight-year-old Sundara Poojary who worked in Maharashtra for almost three decades, said his age does not permit him to return to the financial capital. He is thinking of sowing seeds this season in his fields and settling down in his village. “The uncertainty over the pandemic has made me go back to Mother Nature,” he added. Officials from the department of agriculture, Udupi, said there has been an upward trend when it comes to paddy cultivation. While every year, 4,000 -4,500 farmers procure paddy seeds, this season 5,850 farmers have already approached and purchased the seeds, they said. Last year, 720 quintals of paddy seeds were distributed in Dakshina Kannada. This season, 680 quintals of paddy seeds have sold out of 740 quintal stock available, and there is demand for additional 100 quintal paddy seeds, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pandemic-breathes-life-into-uncultivated-land-on-coast/articleshow/77114078.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
July 23, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra readying SOP for gyms to open, rules out any more large lockdowns||MUMBAI: Public health minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday that the state was intent on reopening more sectors and there was no question of any more large-scale lockdown. The state is finalising standard operating procedures (SOP) to soon restart gyms and other establishments with physical distancing, the minister said in an interaction with the media on lifting Covid-19 restrictions. “I have personally told chief minister Uddhav Thackeray about gyms, which are related to the health of the public and employ a large number of people,” he said. “We will finalise the SOP in a manner that it helps avoid any infection while allowing people to work out. Social distancing will be the key.” The minister said steps like opening of shopping malls and allowing increased attendance in private offices were under consideration. Some day, swimming pools would also have to be opened and the nitty-gritty of it would be discussed. “Restrictions will be done away with in a step-by-step manner,” Tope said. He said the last to open would be public, religious and political gatherings, as these were not a necessity. Tope said that as the state slowly unlocked more sectors, the question of local trains would crop up, but there was no immediate answer to it. “The rush in the local trains in Mumbai doesn’t leave any room for social distancing, which is the mantra in the Covid-19 fight,” he said. “Trains may have to be started at some point, but when, will be decided by the CM.” The state has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the country. Tope agreed that there were issues regarding beds and other health infrastructure in Mumbai’s satellite cities such as Kalyan-Dombivili and Mira-Bhayander, and these were dependent on the city or Thane for their health requirements. “We have planned to have a single command centre for the entire Mumbai Metropolitan Region, just like we did in Mumbai,” he said. “The idea is to ensure that all the resources are pooled in and put to use in a systematic manner.” He said it was true that many patients did not get the required treatment in the rest of MMR and came to the city. Elsewhere, chief minister Thackeray met experts from the fields of ayurveda, homeopathy and unani medicine and asked them to give their guidelines to the Covid-19 taskforce in the state so that best practices from all streams could be put to use.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-readying-sop-for-gyms-to-open-rules-out-any-more-large-lockdowns/articleshow/77117298.cms||Bhavika Jain
July 23, 2020||Jaipur||Screening to find high-risk groups in Jaisalmer||Jaisalmer: The corona cases in Jaisalmer city are pouring in continuously.Now, the municipal council has started ward-wise door-to-door awareness campaign to get complete information about people in home Quarantine. The health department has started the survey and screening work of high-risk group through Lisa application by Asha Sahyoginis and anganwadi workers is going on.District collector Ashish Modi on Wednesday inspected Covid hospitals at Pokhran and Ramdevra and directed officials to make improvements. In Barmer district, more than 30 cases have been reported. There is presence of corona patient in every ward in Balotra. Jaisalmer municipal council commissioner Fateh Singh Meena said that the municipal council team inspected main markets of Jaisalmer on Wednesday and took action against people moving without masks and against shopkeepers for not following the social distancing norm. A fine of Rs 8,800 was collected.He said the team will continue to take action against such people. He appealed to the people of the city and shopkeepers to strictly follow all the prescribed measures, provision, do not allow people in large numbers in shops, inspire people to wear masks otherwise legal action will be taken. Jaisalmer CMHO Dr B K Barupal said that through Lisa application, high-risk group is being identified and surveyed along with screening, referring covid suspected cases for proper treatment, consultation and follow-up. With survey and screening, the actual data will be available which will be used for making proper policy to stop infection, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/screening-to-find-high-risk-groups-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/77116876.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pvt school’s resistance makes govt abolish fees||Ahmedabad: The unrelenting attitude on part of the self-financed schools seems to have infuriated the state government to take an extreme step by prohibiting these schools from charging any fee until the schools remain shut due to Covid-19 pandemic. In its resolution dated July 16, the state education department cited June 26 letter by Private School Management Association addressed to it in which the association had refused to reduce fee structures. The resolution says, “Despite the fact that all are aware of the difficult situation, (association) refused to make any reduction in fees. Therefore, in public interest, the government has taken the decision that since the schools stopped working and until they physically restart, no tuition fee can be collected.” The state government has claimed that it is the directions issued by the Gujarat high court in response to three different PILs that it was constrained to take this step.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pvt-schools-resistance-makes-govt-abolish-fees/articleshow/77116877.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Pune||‘Want to probe crime branch sr inspector’||Pune: The Bibvewadi police told a magisterial court on Wednesday that they wanted to question a senior inspector from the Pune crime branch in a cheating offence. The plea follows arrest of Kondhwa resident Sukhdev Charan (37) on Tuesday night for taking Rs50,000 from a Jaipur bus operator to secure the release of his vehicle seized on July 14 for violating lockdown norms. Charan promised the operator he had contacts in Pune police and could help secure release of his bus provided he paid Rs50,000. “During the questioning, Charan named a senior crime branch inspector and claimed he took the money on the latter’s insistence,” the police’s remand report submitted to the court on Wednesday stated. The court has remanded Charan in police custody till July 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/want-to-probe-crime-branch-sr-inspector/articleshow/77116875.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Covid likely to affect winter weddings too||JAIPUR: After hitting the summer wedding session, Covid is likely to affect the upcoming wedding winter season too. Marriage managers, already shattered with cancelations of weddings planned in May and June, said they were getting a very few bookings for the winter. The organisers believe that families of those whose weddings are slated for November and December are also in a fix as the 50-guest rider may continue. “When the number of guests are limited, our profitability dips and it becomes an expensive affair. For smaller gatherings, the cost increases. I have got a few bookings in which my clients have categorically asked me to make it a one-day affair unlike a three-day affair for various functions such as ladies sangeet, sagai ceremony and wedding,” said Mohit Sand, a Jaipur-based marriage manager. “They are not able to decide whether they can increase their guestlist or not. In a usual wedding, we generally prepare for 1,000 to 2,000 guests. But this time around, people are asking us for a smaller venue to cater to a gathering of 50 people,” he added. Usually, the wedding managers start getting advances and bookings to be organised in November and December, but this year is different. “We are getting few enquiries and our clients are confused. Some of them have even asked that if the rider of 50 people goes off, they might book for wedding in the month of September. But for us we need six months to organise. This year’s whole wedding season have been spoiled,” said Sidhartha Chaturvedi, a wedding planner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-likely-to-affect-winter-weddings-too/articleshow/77116868.cms||Ashish Mehta
July 23, 2020||Jaipur||City buses to ply with safety norms||Jaipur: Following the cabinet nod, the home department on Wednesday issued orders permitting plying of city buses on the condition that proper sanitisation of touch points before and after each journey will be carried out.Apart from this, mandatory wearing of masks by passengers, crew and adequate social distancing are to be maintained. The order issued by the home department said it comes into effect immediately. The state council of ministers at its meeting on Tuesday gave the green signal for further unlocking and restarting city buses and auto-rickshaws to provide mobility to the common people.Though the government had unlocked most of the business except educational institutions and places of religious worship, in the absence of public transportation, the common people were finding it difficult to reach their work places and carry on with their daily work.The decision of the government is expected to bring some semblance of normalcy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/city-buses-to-ply-with-safety-norms/articleshow/77116872.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Chandigarh||UP man arrested with 1.8kg smack in Jind||JIND: Police arrested a man with 1.87 kg smack, worth Rs 1.75 crore, in Jind district. Acting on a tip-off, the crime investigation agency (CIA) team arrested Mohammad Safi, a resident of Mahmoodabad in Sitapur district of Uttar Pradesh. Jind Civil Lines police station in-charge Rajpal said, “The smack was brought from UP and was to be supplied in Jind and adjoining areas. After a tip-off, the police team reached Pindara overbridge where Safi was standing with a bag. Though he tried to flee, he was nabbed.” A case under the relevant sections of the NDPS Act has been registered against Safi, who was later produced before the court which sent him to four-day police remand for through interrogation. Further probe is under way in the case, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/up-man-arrested-with-1-8kg-smack-in-jind/articleshow/77116869.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Gurgaon||UP man arrested with 1.8kg smack in Jind||JIND: Police arrested a man with 1.87 kg smack, worth Rs 1.75 crore, in Jind district. Acting on a tip-off, the crime investigation agency (CIA) team arrested Mohammad Safi, a resident of Mahmoodabad in Sitapur district of Uttar Pradesh. Jind Civil Lines police station in-charge Rajpal said, “The smack was brought from UP and was to be supplied in Jind and adjoining areas. After a tip-off, the police team reached Pindara overbridge where Safi was standing with a bag. Though he tried to flee, he was nabbed.” A case under the relevant sections of the NDPS Act has been registered against Safi, who was later produced before the court which sent him to four-day police remand for through interrogation. Further probe is under way in the case, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/up-man-arrested-with-1-8kg-smack-in-jind/articleshow/77121329.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man held for duping people with ‘PM yojana’ offer||Ahmedabad: Cybercrime police on Wednesday detained one Dhiraj Prajapati of Bharuch for cheating people with the lure of free sewing machines allegedly available under the Pradhan Mantri Yojana. He has been sent for pre-arrest Covid-19 test. DCP cybercrime, Rajdeepsinh Jhala said that Dhiraj and his accomplices have cheated many with the same modus operandi. Such cases against them have been registered at Sola, Vadaj, and Bavla police stations. According to case details, Dhiraj had called up a tailor in Ranip claiming he knew the tailor and informed him of free sewing machines available under PM yojana for bank account holders. “He took the photos of the bank passbook and Aadhaar card of the victim, and later asked him for the OTP received on his phone. Then he stole Rs 20,500 from the bank account of the man,” Jhala said. He added, “Earlier, we had arrested Dhiraj’s aide and relative, Shaileshkumar Prajapati in a case with identical modus operandi. They go through business directories to find details of people in the sewing business and then target them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-held-for-duping-people-with-pm-yojana-offer/articleshow/77116861.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man calls for help with gas leak, loses Rs 48k||Ahmedabad: A 38-year-old man from Kubernagar, Sunil Kimtani, lodged a complaint at Sardarnagar police station on Tuesday stating that a person who identified himself as an employee of his cooking gas company siphoned off Rs 48,000 from two of his bank accounts. He had called a number he got from a directory service app, to report a leaking gas cylinder. Sardarnagar police registered an offence for cheating and violations of the IT Act against an unknown person. According to the FIR, Kimtani, who has a hosiery shop in Kubernagar, said that on March 18, his wife told him their cooking gas cylinder seemed to be leaking. He got the number for the gas company from the Just Dial directory application and called it. “The person at the other end told him he would receive a link on his mobile and would have to pay Rs 10 using it and then someone would come to inspect the cylinder. Kimtani transferred Rs 10 from his PhonePe app. Within a few minutes, the person called him back said that the money had not been transferred and he should use another account. Kimtani then transferred another Rs 10 from his savings account,” said a police official. According to the FIR, in a short while, Rs 29,700 was siphoned off from one account and Rs 18,800 from another.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-calls-for-help-with-gas-leak-loses-rs-48k/articleshow/77116849.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Nagpur||11 new Covid cases in Wardha, one recovery||WARDHA: Eleven novel coronavirus (Covid-19) patients were detected in the district on Wednesday. The new cases are from Ashti, Arvi and Wardha tehsils. With this, the total number of Covid-19 patients in the district has gone up to 94. The new cases include five from Dhadi village in Ashti tehsil, two from Wardha city, Anji (Mothi) 2, Arvi one and Jalgaon one. One patient was discharged on Wednesday. At present, there are 47 persons under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/11-new-covid-cases-in-wardha-one-recovery/articleshow/77116889.cms||Balwant Dhage
July 23, 2020||Nagpur||15 new cases take Chanda Covid-19 count to 324||CHANDRAPUR: With detection of 15 more patients on Wednesday, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the district has climbed to 324. Officials claimed that as on date, 195 patients have been treated and discharged, while 129 patients are under treatment. Chandrapur city is now under lockdown and the number of infected patients in city have reduced substantially during the last two days. All 15 patients found on Wednesday belong to rural areas and most of them are close contacts of positive patients. Gadchandur town alone reported six positive patients today. Administration has called upon people not to step out of house unless it is very necessary. Apart from six from Gadchandur, other patients are from Hadgaon, Manora, WCL Colony Ballarpur, Palgaon, Bhadrawati, Defense Colony in OF Chanda, Voltas Colony in Warora, Ambuja Cement Colony in Upparwahi and Ranbothli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/15-new-cases-take-chanda-covid-19-count-to-324/articleshow/77116880.cms||Mazhar Ali
July 23, 2020||Jaipur||Youth shot at over cash dispute in Sodala||JAIPUR: A youth was injured after his acquaintance fired at him in Sodala police station area on Wednesday. The accused fired after they had a dispute over money. While the youth, Rahul Kumar suffered minor injuries, accused Rahul Takia is yet to be arrested. Both are in their early 20s. Surendra Singh, SHO, Sodala police station said, “Around 8am on Wednesday, the two individuals got into a scuffle. After Kumar slapped Takia, the latter fired at him, though fortunately no one suffered any major injuries.” According to officials, the two were known to each other and argued over some financial matters. “It appears that there was some exchange of money and though the details are unclear, it seems that one of the two had borrowed money from the other. The matter is still under investigation,” said the official. After the shooting, the accused fled from the spot while the injured was taken to a hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/youth-shot-at-over-cash-dispute-in-sodala/articleshow/77116891.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Debt-laden businessman kills self||AHMEDABAD: A businessman dealing in plywood and other material for furniture in Sarkhej allegedly committed suicide by jumping off the 12th floor of his apartment building in Prahladnagar late on Tuesday night. Police said Sushil Tibrewal, 62, took the extreme step as his business suffered tremendous losses since the lockdown was imposed. His suicide note categorically states that he was being harassed by a moneylender named Omprakash Punjabi. Inspector S J Baloch of Anandnagar police said that Tibrewal was a resident of Safal Parivesh on Corporate Road in the Prahladnagar. “He went to terrace of the 12-storey building late on Tuesday night and jumped off,” Baloch said. Some residents and his family members heard the noise and the police control room was called. A team of Anandnagar police reached the spot and began an investigation. “According to his son, Saket, 38, Sushil was in great financial trouble since the lockdown was imposed. Due to this he was under severe mental pressure for a long time. This may be the main reason for his suicide,” said another police officer. On harassment by creditors, Baloch said, “We learned from a suicide note that he committed suicide because he was being hounded by moneylenders, from whom he had borrowed money at stiff interest rates.” “Forensic experts will examine the suicide note and ascertain if it was written by Tibrewal. Only after the FSL report comes can we conclude anything about this case,” said Baloch. “We did not record the statements of the bereaved family as they were busy with the last rites of the deceased. We will begin the investigation in a day or two,” he said. An FSL team was roped as part of the legal procedure and a postmortem was conducted. Anandnagar police registered a case of accidental death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/debt-laden-businessman-kills-self/articleshow/77116296.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan allows film shooting in again||JAIPUR: Movie producers can now troupe down to their favourite locale. After months of total ban, Rajasthan government on Wednesday allowed filmmakers to shoot in the state. In a circular, Alok Gupta, principal secretary, tourism, issued detailed measures that producers need to follow in view of the pandemic. According to the SOPs, shooting will not be permitted in containment or buffer zones. Similarly, permission will also not be given for shoots in residential and densely populated areas. The size of the crew should not exceed 50 and all have to download Aarogya Setu App on their mobile phones. Masks, gloves and sanitisers are a must for all the members, while the crew will have to have a Covid desk to help people in case anyone having coronavirus symptoms and supervise anti-contagion measures. Film shooting is a revenue churner for the state government. In the recent past, Rajasthan was chosen as locale for many block-buster films like PK, Mardaani-2, Manikarnika, Super-30, Dabangg-3, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-allows-film-shooting-in-raj-again/articleshow/77116882.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Jaipur||HC asks govt to hold municipal polls in 6 cities by October 31||Jaipur: The Rajasthan High Court has asked the government to hold elections to the six municipal corporations in Jaipur, Kota and Jodhpur by October 31.Earlier, the court had directed to hold the elections by August 31 on the application of the state government which had sought permission from the court to hold elections by December 31.But the counsel for state election commission R B Mathur did not agree. He pointed out that the Supreme Court had ordered the panchayat elections to be held by October 15. So both the elections could be held if the conditions are conducive with the liberty to the government to approach the court if the conditions arising out of the Covid situation had not improved.An application was filed in the high court on Tuesday morning by advocate general M S Singhvi in which it is said that in view of the worsening Corona infection in the state, it was not possible to conduct municipal elections at the scheduled time.The central government and the WHO have also given guidelines to prevent the spread of corona infection by avoiding gathering of crowd. In such a situation, elections cannot be held at the moment as the use of EVM machines and mobilization of municipal corporations will be counterproductive. He demanded elections be extended till December 31.Municipal corporation elections were due in November 2019. The state government assured the court to hold elections in six months following bifurcation of the three municipal corporations. Elections were to be held in April, but the state government filed an application on March 18 seeking six more weeks from the court due to the pandemic. After this, on the application of the state government, the court had given permission to hold elections by August 31. Now elections have been postponed again till October 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-asks-govt-to-hold-municipal-polls-in-6-cities-by-october-31/articleshow/77116885.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Rajiv Gandhi Park redevelopment starts||VIJAYAWADA: The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) has begun the redevelopment of Rajiv Gandhi Park. The VMC in its urban renewal plan decided to spend Rs 2 crore from its 14th Finance Commission funds to develop the Rajiv Gandhi park. As part of the revamp plan, adventure zone, children’s play area, multi-cuisine food court and a virtual-reality gaming zone will come up at the park. The park is also set to get walking tracks and an international-standard skating rink. “We have started the development work at Rajiv Gandhi Park. Old water fountains will be repaired and latest amusements will be procured. It will be an urban lung space for the city, providing fun and recreation to the people,” said VMC chief engineer Mariyanna. The Rajiv Gandhi Park is the city’s largest park. It spreads across nine acres of land. It is centrally located, adjacent to the Pandit Nehru Bus Station and VMC head office. A majority of the rides at the park were in a dilapidated condition and the greenery was damaged. The Joy train has been defunct since 2011 and the mini zoo has been closed for years. A portion of the park was acquired for the landing of the Kanaka Durga flyover. The then Telugu Desam Party (TDP) lead municipal council repaired the water fountain during Krishna Pushkarams in 2017 and allowed private players to arrange amusements such as Ferris wheels and other equipment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rajiv-gandhi-park-redevelopment-starts/articleshow/77115348.cms||Venu Lanka
July 23, 2020||Vadodara||Local residents object to cremation of Covid-19 victims||VADODARA: The last rites of Covid-19 patients in Vadodara city have raked up a row again with residents of Vasna raising objections to cremation of bodies of such patients there. The crematorium in the area was recently earmarked for Covid-19 victims. Three crematoriums in Vasna, Gotri and Akota were earmarked for cremation of persons who had tested positive for Covid-19 apart from Khaswadi. This was done as the number of bodies being cremated every day were on a rise. The decision did not go down well with the residents of Vasna. When the bodies were brought there for cremation on Tuesday night, the residents gathered at the spot and objected to the move. They even staged protests on Tuesday night and on Wednesday. VMC sources said that they had informed the city police regarding the development. They added that the city police was initially looking to convince the residents and, if needed, take action. The cremations on Wednesday proved to be a daunting task as the furnace for cremations in Khaswadi was under maintenance. This left only two furnaces at Akota and Gotri available for cremation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/local-residents-object-to-cremation-of-covid-19-victims/articleshow/77115391.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Jaipur||One-year-old girl abducted from Jaipur’s Pratapnagar||JAIPUR: A one-year-old child was allegedly abducted from Pratapnagar area on Wednesday night in a shocking incident when the accused took the child while she was playing with her sister. The incident happened around 8 pm and the child was snatched while she was still I her relative’s lap. “The child was playing with her relative when two persons on a bike apparently took away the girl. The family belongs to a nomad crowd and we are still trying to gather more details”, said an official of Pratapnagar police station. According to officials they are looking at the CCTV camera footage of the area where the child was apparently abducted from. “We have not received any ransom calls and its appears that the crime occurred due to a personal dispute as this does not seem a crime of opportunity”, said an official. Cops have placed barricades and pickets to catch the accused and cops claimed that it seemed that a person known to the parents have carried out the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1-yr-old-girl-abducted-from-citys-pratapnagar/articleshow/77116895.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Deferred SGST to help hotels, but industry desperately wants fixed power charges waiver||JAIPUR: In the Centre’s Rs 20 lakh crore Atmanirbhar economic relief package, tourism and hospitality drew a blank. The disappointed tourism industry, which contributes about 23% to the state’s economy, looked up to the state government for its survival and revival. On Tuesday, the state government extended its helping hand, albeit in a limited way, to support the sector that is still struggling to see signs of revival. In a meeting of the state council of ministers chaired by chief minister Ashok Gehlot, the government allowed the hotel industry and tour operators to not pay state GST till March 31, 2021. The deferred payment will not attract interest. TimesViewTourism industry not only contributes about 23% to the state’s GDP but has a huge multiplier effect on job and livelihood creation in the state. It engages people from various walks of life - from camel riders, folk singers and dancers, taxi drivers to white collar professionals. Recently, the government has given the priority that the sector needs but there are issues that also beg attention, like exempting the industry from fixed electricity charges which they have not consumed. Since revival of the sector will have a significant cascading impact on the economy, the government should look at revamping the old policies that have a strangulating grip over its growth.“This will certainly help the cash-strapped industry. They will have some additional interest-free working capital till March 2021. We had expected some relief from the Centre which is still awaited. But the state government realises the importance of tourism in the state’s economy and the support is timely and necessary,” said Sunil Mehta, a resort owner. Similarly, the government also announced to bring the sector under the thrust areas identified in the Rajasthan Industrial Promotion Scheme which will make it eligible for additional benefits like capital and interest subsidy. In December last year, the government had also allowed the hotel industry to avail 100% exemption in stamp duty and conversion charges to deepen the sector. Previously the stamp duty exemption was only 50%. “The decision to keep the tourism industry in the thrust sector will allow it in availing a lot of benefits that it has been deprived of, despite its larger footprint in the economy. But the government should also look at other issues plaguing the industry, said Surendra Singh Shahpura, another hotelier. Shahpura said the government should also reduce liquor licence fees, and fixed electricity charges to help the industry in their efforts to stay afloat during these challenging times. Mehta also drew attention to high DLC rates and lower market rates hampering new investments in the sector. He said over the past few years, Jaipur-Delhi highway has witnessed new lucrative location for new projects, but the gap between the DLC and the market rates needs to be rationalized. “Lower market prices and higher DLC rates have created a peculiar situation for investors. How can the investor get back the additional money he is paying for the land? Nobody wants his tax-paid money to be unaccounted for and these days, more and more companies are adopting fair practices. The anomaly is preventing new investments and needs to be corrected by rationalizing DLC rates,” added Mehta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/deferred-sgst-to-help-hotels-but-industry-desperately-wants-fixed-power-charges-waiver/articleshow/77116900.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
July 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Agency battles to keep Covid count below malaria||VISAKHAPATNAM: The fact that the Agency area is cut off from the mainstreams has helped its residents for the first time. It is one of the prime reasons why Covid-19 cases have been low here. Every year during monsoon malaria spreads across the Agency. It reported 952 malaria cases in 2019 and 1,685 cases in 2018. This year 957 malaria, six dengue and two chikungunya cases have been reported so far. Added to this only 19 persons have tested positive for Covid-19 and no deaths have been reported. This when Vizag urban and rural areas have reported 3,479 cases and 55 deaths. Speaking to TOI, additional DMHO, Paderu, S Leela Prasad said among the 11 mandals of the Agency, Munchingiput has reported four Covid-19 cases (highest in the area). Moreover, a majority of the patients are police constables and migrant workers who had arrived from outside after the lockdown was lifted. There are seven active cases in the Agency now as two have been recovered, he added. Meanwhile officials are ensuring that Covid-19 does not impact the current disease burden in the area. The project officer of ITDA-Paderu, Venkateswar Salijamala said they have been taking all the measures to prevent the spread of the virus. “The restriction on the containment zones will go on for some more weeks. Contact tracing, containment and sanitation measures are being followed,” he said. He has asked officials to provide quality food to the patients at the Covid Care Centre and asked the police and medical officials to visit the centre regularly to examine the quality of food being served to the patients. Besides, weekly markets have been closed down. So far more than 2,000 people have been tested and they have three Truenat machines in Paderu and Araku Valley. Officials said the mobile testing bus Sanjeevini is visiting Araku Valley, Paderu and Chintapalli to collect swabs. Those whose test positive on Truenat, their swabs are sent to the Visakhapatnam city lab for the final report. At present Covid-19 patients are being treated at the Youth Training Centre in Paderu that has been designated as Covid Care Centre. One more centre has been set up at Araku Valley.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/agency-battles-to-keep-covid-count-below-malaria/articleshow/77115357.cms||Nalla.Babu
July 23, 2020||Jaipur||RIICO’s Rs 220 crore dole unlikely to have any impact on revival||JAIPUR: Reacting to the relief package announced by the government on Tuesday, industry representatives said there was no direct benefit that would help revive the industry and reduce their difficulties. They said the long-standing demand for exemption of fixed electricity charges have not been addressed. Allowing additional time for completion and production of units and waiving interest and penalty for delayed payment of service tax is very cosmetic. “The relief measures will not have any direct impact. Waiving fixed electricity charges for which industry has been demanding would have assuaged some of the pain,” said Suresh Agarwal, president of Federation of Rajasthan Trade and Industry. The meeting of the state council of ministers chaired by chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday announced that various relief measures worth Rs 220 crore to be extended by RIICO. As per the proposals, industrial units which have not paid annual service tax against the land will be exempted from any interest and penalty if the payments are made before December 31. “This is like amnesty scheme which the state government introduces to collect taxes and end disputes. The impact of Covid pandemic on businesses required specific, direct intervention which is not there,” added Agarwal. The proposal to allow extension of production deadline will bring some relief to people who have postponed the factory development activities due to credit crunch and lack of demand. Such decisions were already taken in other sectors of economy like the government allowing the builders additional six months’ time for completion of their projects. On Tuesday, the government said that deadline for those projects which were supposed to start production between March and September 2020 will be given additional one year and will not face any penalty for the delay. Similarly, investors who have got RIICO land from auctions will be given additional 90 days besides the 120 days for making the production. Similarly, entrepreneurs who have failed to execute land deeds, and set up rainwater harvesting systems will be given certain exemptions. The industry representatives said these measures will provide some relief to a very few units and the overall impact of revival of industry is missing completely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/riicos-rs-220cr-dole-unlikely-to-have-any-impact-on-revival/articleshow/77116893.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Delhi||Old DDA colonies may get a new lease of life||NEW DELHI: The Union housing and urban affairs ministry is working on a policy to allow redevelopment of old DDA colonies in the national capital, which will pave way for taller buildings with amenities such as parking space and facilities for lifts. As per the plan, the redevelopment work would be taken up only if 70% or more house owners in a pocket or complex agree to the proposal. Sources said this would be an enabling policy and will be completely up to the house owners to decide whether they want redevelopment. Officials said the work has just begun and all best options to bring maximum benefits to the existing flat owners are being considered. They added the policy would also have provisions making it mandatory for the entities which would undertake redevelopment works to give rental charges to the families during the construction period. Such redevelopment works may take up to three years. Sources said dozens of DDA colonies built decades back were low-rise as the FAR (floor area ratio) was less during those times. Now since the FAR has been increased to push vertical development, these complexes will have more dwelling units after redevelopment. “Now installing lifts in the existing blocks is very difficult as this requires consent from all the house owners in that block. The colonies planned decades back had no provision for car parking as the main mode of private transport those days were two-wheelers. Redevelopment of colonies will meet the current requirements,” said a source. Currently, almost all common areas including the open space earmarked for parks have become informal parking spaces in DDA colonies and the garages meant for two-wheelers have become store rooms. Some experts told TOI that the policy, if framed, would need to address the issue of 30% of residents in case they don’t come on board. Secondly, the agencies responsible for infrastructure would need to do their job to meet the demand post redevelopment as there will be more number of dwelling units. Watch Old DDA colonies may get a new lease of life||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/old-dda-colonies-may-get-a-new-lease-of-life/articleshow/77136248.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ganesha idol makers foresee bleak business||AHMEDABAD: With the Covid-19 pandemic showing no signs of waning, the forthcoming Ganesha festival is likely to be hit severely. Although the state government has not issued specific guidelines yet, idol makers are bracing for tough times ahead. The Ganesha festival will be celebrated next month. Most idol makers are worried as the money they make during the festival season sustains them for the year. To make matters worse, people have been apprehensive about visiting the Gulbai Tekra, where most idol makers live, as several Covid cases have been reported there. Deva Rathod, 45, who has been making Ganesha idols since the age of 5, said banks and financial agencies do not give loans to buy raw materials for idols. “We read in the newspapers that Maharashtra has allowed idols no taller than 2 feet this year,” Rathod said. “Moreover, the idols can be made with only mud.” Rathod said that until recently, he and others at Gulbai Tekra sold taller Ganesha idols for up to Rs 20,000 each. “The small idols will not fetch more than Rs 3,000 and cannot be made with a cast,” he said. There are 150 families in Gulbai Tekra which specialize in making idols. Govind Bhati, another idol maker, reiterated that people are wary of visiting Gulbai Tekra. There are some idol makers whose business has not been affected by the pandemic. Vijay Naik, 60, of Mithakhali whose family has been making Ganesha idols for three generations, said last year he sold about 600 idols. He said this year the number could be higher. “My regular customers have already started placing orders despite the fact that prices of the idols have increased this year,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ganesha-idol-makers-foresee-bleak-business/articleshow/77116316.cms||Meghdoot Sharon
July 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Graft case: Rs 10 lakh angadia transaction discovered||AHMEDABAD: Suspended PSI Shweta Jadeja, who is accused of corruption, seems to be in more trouble as investigators came across another transfer via angadia, of Rs 10 lakh to her elder sister’s husband, Devendra Odedra, who is still absconding in the case. Jadeja was arrested earlier this month for allegedly demanding and receiving a bribe of Rs 35 lakh from the brother of a man accused of rape, to not propose his incarceration under PASA. Jadeja is behind bars at present. According to SOG officials, they now have a witness who told them that Jadeja, who was posted in the Women’s police station (West) had sent Rs 10 lakh to Odedra, through an angadia firm. “We are investigating whether that transaction was part of the present case or some other case,” a senior SOG official said. The official added that it has emerged in the investigation that the earlier tranches of money were sent by the complainant’s men to Upleta. “On February 1 and February 6, parcels of Rs 5 lakh each were sent first through an angadia firm. Another parcel with Rs 20 lakh was sent later. Jadeja then called the complainant to her house in Vastrapur and took Rs 4 lakh in person and a mobile phone worth Rs 1.12 lakh,” a source in the SOG said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/graft-case-rs-10l-angadia-transaction-discovered/articleshow/77116303.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Trichy||MGMGH gets 10 more hi-flow oxygen devices||Trichy: The Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) government hospital in Trichy has got ten more high flow nasal oxygenation devices for its Covid-19 wards, here on Wednesday. The machines, each worth Rs 3.5 lakh, have been supplied through the Tamil Nadu Medical Supplies Corporation. MGM medical superintendent Dr R Yeganathan said that the hospital already has four high flow oxygenation machines, of which two are dedicated to paediatrics department. He said that the equipment can pump 70 litres of oxygen per minute from the centralized oxygen supply unit in the hospital. Patients with comorbidities and others with breathing trouble are being put on the equipment already. The machine can be moved close to the patients as and when it is required. As of Tuesday, MGM has 482 Covid-19 patients. On Wednesday, 213 more patients tested positive in Trichy. MGM has 80 ventilators and are being used for critically-ill Covid-19 patients. The presence of high flow nasal oxygenation could reduce the use of ventilators on the patients. “Before moving the patient to ventilators, we can put them on high flow nasal machine and save them. If the health condition worsens further, we will put them on ventilator,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/mgmgh-gets-10-more-hi-flow-oxygen-devices/articleshow/77116899.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Nashik||Stolen truck with goods recovered||Nashik: A stolen truck containing goods worth Rs 21 lakh was recovered by the Nashik crime branch from Lakhalgaon area of the city on Monday. According to police, the truck, carrying various pharmaceutical and consumer articles, was stolen from the Kasara ghat area by robbers on July 12. Police inspector Ananda Wagh of the city crime branch said the vehilce was loaded from a godown in Bhiwandi on July 11 and was proceeding towards Patna in Bihar on the Mumbai-Agra highway when the robbers intercepted it. “The robbers overpowered the truck driver and tied him to a tree before getting away with the vehicle. The truck driver was rescued by local villagers following which a complaint was lodged,” he said. “On July 20, we got information from our sources about an abandoned truck in Adgaon. We sought more details about the container and got to know it was the vehicle stolen from Kasara ghat area. We have handed over the truck to Kasara police for further investigation,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/stolen-truck-with-goods-recovered/articleshow/77114119.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Jaipur||JTA held for taking bribe in Jhalawar||KOTA: The ACB on Wednesday arrested an junior technical assistant (JTA) posted in panchyat samiti Manhorethana in Jhalawar district and a middleman for allegedly taking a bribe of Rs 7,000. The JTA had demanded bribe of Rs 15,000 for issuing must roll and evaluation of work carried out by a contractor. During search at his office-cum-living room in a rented accommodation, unaccounted cash of Rs 13 lakh was also recovered while bank papers revealed another Rs 9 lakh deposit. The arrested JTA has been identified as Liyaqat Khan and the middleman as Hashim, Baran ACB inspector Gyanchand Meena said. They had taken a bribe of Rs 7,000 from contractor Balram Tanwar. The contractor had carried out construction of a pond in Haripura village but the JTA had been demanding Rs 15,000 for issuing a must roll and carrying out evaluation of the work done for payments, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jta-held-for-taking-bribe-in-jhalawar/articleshow/77116903.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Jodhpur||Covid recovery rate dips in Rajasthan as active cases keep rising||JAIPUR: With new Covid infections increasing at 3% daily, the recovery rate, which had touched 80% on June 4, has now slipped to 72% in the state. Also, the virus has claimed lives of 2% of the patients. As the state government stepped up Covid testing, 961 new infections were reported from different parts of the state on Wednesday taking the tally to 32,334. During the day, six persons died taking the toll to 583. While three persons died in Bikaner taking the district’s toll to 27, another three died in Alwar taking its count to 11. The situation is turning worse in Jodhpur as 212 new infections have been reported in just 24 hours. It is the highest single-day spike in the district so far. With Wednesday’s surge, Jodhpur became the first district in the state to breach the 5,000-mark to reach 5,155 cases. However, no death has been reported from Jodhpur, despite the record spike in cases, which is a good sign as the focus of the government is more on preventing deaths. Districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (212), Alwar (180), Jaipur (85), Bikaner (59), Ajmer (48), Pali (39), Bharatpur (38), Jalore (37), Barmer (36), Udaipur (34), Dholpur (32), Nagaur (23), Kota (21), Jhalawar (14), Sirohi (14), Jaisalmer (13), Sikar (11), Hanumangarh (10), Churu (8), Bhilwara (8), Jhunjhunu (8), Rajsamand (7), Dausa (7), Karauli (6), Sriganganagar (3), Bundi (2), Banswara (2), Dungarpur (2), Baran (1) and Chittorgarh (1). The active cases touched new high of 8,387 on Wednesday, up from 8,052 on Tuesday and 7,627 cases on Monday. Besides, 620 patients have been cured taking the rally of such patients to 23,364.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/covid-recovery-rate-dips-as-active-cases-keep-rising/articleshow/77124663.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Trichy||Speeding sand-laden truck mows down 2||Trichy: Two men involved in watering plants on median of Trichy-Chennai national highway were killed after a speeding sand-laden truck hit the water tanker and tore it apart near Samayapuram in Trichy on Wednesday. The deceased were identified as contract labourer P Arumugam, 64, of Othakadai in Trichy and water tanker driver P Chellaiyan, 42, of Kumarakudi in Trichy. The driver of the truck has been identified as B Victor, 49, of Thatchankurichi in Trichy. He was critically injured in the accident that occurred around 11.30 am, and is undergoing treatment at a private hospital. Arumugam was watering the plant behind the tractor-tanker, as it was moving slowly forward. The sand-laden truck rammed into the water tanker. Police said that the sand truck ripped through the water tanker. Chellaiyan was flung out of the vehicle and died on the spot. Police said that in the impact the truck hit Arumugam forcefully, who was standing behind the vehicle, killing him. People gathered on the spot as Arumugam was a native of the area. Police retrieved the bodies and sent them to the Srirangam government hospital for postmortem. Injured Victor was admitted to a private hospital in Trichy. An investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/speeding-sand-laden-truck-mows-down-2/articleshow/77116906.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Chennai||3 RS members from TN take oath||Chennai: Three out of six MPs who were elected to Rajya Sabha from Tamil Nadu took oath on Wednesday in the Upper House chamber in the presence of Rajya Sabha chairman and Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu. The three MPs are M Thambidurai, K P Munusamy both from AIADMK and G K Vasan from Tamil Maanila Congress. Three DMK MPs Trichy Siva, N R Elango and Anthiyur Selvaraj did not take oath as party president M K Stalin advised them to wait till the Covid-19 came under control. Tamil Nadu deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam took to Twitter to wish the MPs. “I wish AIADMK leaders Thambidurai and Munusamy as well as Vasan all the best for their good work,” tweeted Panneerselvam a few hours after the swearing-in. “The pandemic is yet to be controlled and is at present of grave concern. Our party leader has taken a call that it’s not advisable to travel during this time,” said Siva. Meanwhile, based on the affidavits filed by the MPs, the Association of Democratic Reforms (ADR) has found that out of the 229 sitting Rajya Sabha members, 203 are crorepatis. It has found that all 9 MPs of AIADMK are crorepatis. Out of DMK’s seven MPs, six are crorepatis. With regard to criminal cases, DMK has two MPs who have criminal cases against them and one even has been booked in a serious criminal case. However, none of the AIADMK MPs have any criminal case pending against them. PMK and MDMK MPs also have criminal cases pending against them. “The criminal cases against two of our MPs are foisted by the ruling party. Both will be in the clear,” said a senior DMK leader. The average assets of an AIADMK MP stand at Rs 12.4 crore, while that a DMK MP stand at Rs 6.2 crore. Lone MP like Anbumani Ramadoss (PMK) has assets worth Rs 32.4 crore, Vasan (TMC) has assets worth Rs 10 crore, while Vaiko of MDMK has assets worth Rs 1.57 crore. “Pending criminal cases, including heinous charges such as rape, murder, kidnapping along with owning almost obscenely enormous assets, have now become the new normal for the so-called elected representatives these days,” said ADR founder Prof Jagdeep Chhokar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/3-rs-members-from-tn-take-oath/articleshow/77116910.cms||B Sivakumar
July 23, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Too many outsiders a concern for Posta area||KOLKATA: Ever since the Covid outbreak, the commercial hub of Posta — along with Burrabazar — has remained in the news for reporting a number of cases. But it was not for any lack in effort to contain the virus. In fact, this is one of the few areas where the market associations and residents came together to help the Kolkata Municipal Corporation and Kolkata Police to control the virus. Even though the area managed to control the numbers after the initial spread, deaths — though sparse — have followed in certain intervals. Now, a large portion of Sikdar Para Street (10C, 11, 12, 17/1) has been under a containment zone for a little under a week. But the way the containment zone has been laid out in Sikdar Para shows how the area throws up severe challenges in containing the virus. “While we have cordoned off all the bylanes and deployed cops to ensure no one enters or leaves the place at will, the main road cannot be barricaded given that several trucks and goods vehicles use it to reach the main Posta market,” explained an officer. Locals said too many outsiders visit the area. “This is the lifeline of Kolkata. How can you stop all commercial activities? From porters to traders, every one comes here from all corners of south Bengal. Contact tracing here is virtually an inhuman task,” said Pradip Sisodia, a trader here. Posta and other markets in Burrabazar are important for the supply of edibles to retail markets in the city and the suburbs. But this also means that people from different parts of the city assemble here every day. This poses a risk of the virus spreading to even parts of the city where no cases have been detected. “It also means a risk of the virus infecting more people within this pocket,” said a source in the local administration. The area residents say that the decision to keep Raja Katra market — located barely five minutes from the spot — open on all days, too, needs to be re-looked. “Ever since police had shut down Raja Katra market, the numbers had fallen. But once it reopened, we began hearing about cases here. A similar exercise here will be required,” said an area resident. Many traders, though, themselves have decided to take safety measures across the central trading hub surrounding Sikdar Para, several of them complaining that not many steps have been taken to contain the virus by the administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/too-many-outsiders-a-concern-for-posta-area/articleshow/77116306.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana records nine deaths, 1,554 Covid-19 cases||HYDERABAD: Telangana’s Covid-19 caseload is inching towards the 50,000 mark, with nine more deaths and 1,554 new cases recorded on Wednesday. While the total number of cases stands at 49,259, the toll has gone up to 438. Telangana crossed the 3-lakh mark with 15,882 samples checked during the day, raising the total number of samples analyzed at 3,08,959. Cases in the GHMC area rose with 842 new cases registered in the city area, while the surge continued in Rangareddy, Medchal, Warangal, Medak and Sangareddy districts.  Within the city limits, the engineering wing of Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) office saw the first positive Covid-19 case. A senior draughtsman working in the engineering wing reportedly tested positive during the tests and has been home quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-records-nine-deaths-1554-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77115369.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Govt efforts to set up plasma bank slows to a crawl||HYDERABAD: The efforts of the government and hospitals to come up with a plasma bank for providing plasma for required patients is taking place slowly due to many reasons, including antibodies being produced later in recovered patients. With few people recovering after the plasma treatment, the state government had planned to come up with a plasma bank at Gandhi Hospital and ESI Hospital “We are trying to rope in as many plasma recovered patients as possible. Those who come forward are being tested for antibodies many times, but it is taking a lot of time” Dr Sailaja Vani, deputy superintendent, ESI Hospital said. Doctors at ESI Hospital say that the antibodies are produced nearly after one month of recovery among the patients who have severe symptoms. The asymptomatic do not have required amount of antibodies. Meanwhile ESI hospital began the plasma treatment for a patient for the first time two days ago and the patient is said to be recovering now. The hospital is also trying to make the plasma bank available to those who don’t have ESI health card. Authorities told TOI that the few plasma donors available are being flooded with calls requesting plasma donation. Telangana State Plasma Donors Association president Gudur Narayana Reddy said that there are problems with people coming forward for plasma donation. “ If we talk to 100 recovered patients only two or three people are showing willingness for donation, I would suggest that if the donation can be made mobile, plasma can be collected at homes, more people will come forward,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-efforts-to-set-up-plasma-bank-slows-to-a-crawl/articleshow/77116912.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 23, 2020||Trichy||Big Bazaar st a containment zone, but not for residents||Trichy: Big Bazaar street containment zone has two more days to go for relaxation, but residents there are in a hurry to venture out by jumping barricades. Through the narrow openings in the cordoned-off entries and exits, residents and visitors move in and out of the city’s major Covid-19 hotspot even as fresh cases continue to surface in the containment area in the past four days. Big Bazaar street and cross streets comprising residential and commercial establishments have reported more than 150 Covid-19 positive cases so far. Since infection has been spreading from here to other parts of the city, ward numbers 16, 17 and 18 with Big Bazaar street as epicentre was made a containment zone on July 10. Except for shops selling essential commodities, other outlets were closed. Residents adhered to the containment measures in the early days, but significant violations have been reported in recent days with people venturing out. Around 30 entries and exits of the street were cordoned off but locals continue to venture out through the gaps between barricades. “Locals remove the barricades on their own and use two-wheeler to go out via the old passport office locality. Absence of police personnel is the reason,” T Senthil Kumar, a resident of Palakkarai said. Nadu Kallukara street, Old passport office road and Narasimalu Naidu street see the maximum number of violations. While 12 positive cases were reported in the containment zone in the past four days, poor supervision was blamed for rampant violations continuing. Since cases continue to surface from the street, a section of locals said the containment should be extended after July 24. “The fresh cases being reported from the area are family contacts of existing Covid-19 cases. Intracity movement towards and from Big Bazaar street has been brought down through the containment zone,” a sanitary official with Trichy corporation said. The civic body said a section of locals who are yet to understand the severity of the outbreak are violating the norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/big-bazaar-st-a-containment-zone-but-not-for-residents/articleshow/77116913.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Devasthan to triple the rent of its assets||JAIPUR: The devasthan department is set to raise the rent of its 2,298 properties, including shops, parking space and dharam shalas (paying guest house) to increase the annual revenue from Rs 4 crore to Rs 12 crore annually. The new rent policy will replace the previous rent policy of 2000 with a provision of meagre increment after every three years. The extra revenue will be spent on elderly pilgrimage scheme, maintenance of temples and to make temples self-reliant. “The proposal has been sent to the cabinet for its approval,” said Govind Singh Dotasra, minister for state for devasthan department. These properties are attached to the temples which are either entirely dependent upon the state for its functioning or receives one-time support in a year. The department has 59,413 temples, 2,282 rent out places and 17 dharam shalas. Most of the temples were under the erstwhile ruling states and after their merger in the state, they are being taken care of by the state. Most of these temples follow the hereditary system when it comes to the appointment of a priest. Likewise, the rented place is also passing on to one generation to another.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/devasthan-to-triple-the-rent-of-its-assets/articleshow/77116909.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Ajmer||Covid recovery rate dips in Rajasthan as active cases keep rising||JAIPUR: With new Covid infections increasing at 3% daily, the recovery rate, which had touched 80% on June 4, has now slipped to 72% in the state. Also, the virus has claimed lives of 2% of the patients. As the state government stepped up Covid testing, 961 new infections were reported from different parts of the state on Wednesday taking the tally to 32,334. During the day, six persons died taking the toll to 583. While three persons died in Bikaner taking the district’s toll to 27, another three died in Alwar taking its count to 11. The situation is turning worse in Jodhpur as 212 new infections have been reported in just 24 hours. It is the highest single-day spike in the district so far. With Wednesday’s surge, Jodhpur became the first district in the state to breach the 5,000-mark to reach 5,155 cases. However, no death has been reported from Jodhpur, despite the record spike in cases, which is a good sign as the focus of the government is more on preventing deaths. Districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (212), Alwar (180), Jaipur (85), Bikaner (59), Ajmer (48), Pali (39), Bharatpur (38), Jalore (37), Barmer (36), Udaipur (34), Dholpur (32), Nagaur (23), Kota (21), Jhalawar (14), Sirohi (14), Jaisalmer (13), Sikar (11), Hanumangarh (10), Churu (8), Bhilwara (8), Jhunjhunu (8), Rajsamand (7), Dausa (7), Karauli (6), Sriganganagar (3), Bundi (2), Banswara (2), Dungarpur (2), Baran (1) and Chittorgarh (1). The active cases touched new high of 8,387 on Wednesday, up from 8,052 on Tuesday and 7,627 cases on Monday. Besides, 620 patients have been cured taking the rally of such patients to 23,364.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/covid-recovery-rate-dips-as-active-cases-keep-rising/articleshow/77124666.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Sharp dip in demand for chartered flights to Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: As cases increase, the impression that Kerala is a safe haven for expats has diminished considerably and the hint is seen in the decreasing demand for chartered flights to Kerala. As per Norka department figures, the requests for clearance, from state government, for chartered flights over the past one week have drastically dropped to one-tenth of the number seen last month. "The demand for chartered flights has come down drastically. From an average of 50-60 flights a day, we are receiving only five to six in the past few days," said principal secretary (Norka) K Ellangovan. Government sources, actively liaising with expats, said that there are four reasons for the decline in demand. "The number of positive cases in state has been increasing over the past couple of weeks and most of them are contact cases; indicating high chances of community spread. This has created a feeling that it is not worth to return home, by risking job and career, when there is no guarantee that they are safe in state," said a senior official actively liaising with expats. As per Norka records, most flights that received clearance are from Gulf countries. As many as 5.48 lakh persons had registered with Norka to return to state, of which 4.90 lakh were from Gulf countries. The reopening of Gulf countries after lockdown have also had a great impact on lesser demand for return. "Almost all sectors have reopened in Gulf countries. The fear of losing jobs and chances that they may not be able to go back once they come home have overcome the scare of Covid-19. Also, online classes for children have begun in those countries, which they are unable to access if they come back," sources said. As per Norka’s figures, 2,171 chartered flights were given clearance by the government, which is the highest compared to clearances given by other state governments. Of this, only 956 flights have arrived. In addition, another 332 flights arrived under Vande Bharat Mission, taking the total to 1,288. Norka officials said that unlike previous months, many flights that received clearance are being rescheduled due to load factor. Many organizers are actively scouting to find people willing to return, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sharp-dip-in-demand-for-chartered-flights-to-kerala/articleshow/77115356.cms||KP Saikiran
July 23, 2020||Jaipur||Covid recovery rate dips in Rajasthan as active cases keep rising||JAIPUR: With new Covid infections increasing at 3% daily, the recovery rate, which had touched 80% on June 4, has now slipped to 72% in the state. Also, the virus has claimed lives of 2% of the patients. As the state government stepped up Covid testing, 961 new infections were reported from different parts of the state on Wednesday taking the tally to 32,334. During the day, six persons died taking the toll to 583. While three persons died in Bikaner taking the district’s toll to 27, another three died in Alwar taking its count to 11. The situation is turning worse in Jodhpur as 212 new infections have been reported in just 24 hours. It is the highest single-day spike in the district so far. With Wednesday’s surge, Jodhpur became the first district in the state to breach the 5,000-mark to reach 5,155 cases. However, no death has been reported from Jodhpur, despite the record spike in cases, which is a good sign as the focus of the government is more on preventing deaths. Districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (212), Alwar (180), Jaipur (85), Bikaner (59), Ajmer (48), Pali (39), Bharatpur (38), Jalore (37), Barmer (36), Udaipur (34), Dholpur (32), Nagaur (23), Kota (21), Jhalawar (14), Sirohi (14), Jaisalmer (13), Sikar (11), Hanumangarh (10), Churu (8), Bhilwara (8), Jhunjhunu (8), Rajsamand (7), Dausa (7), Karauli (6), Sriganganagar (3), Bundi (2), Banswara (2), Dungarpur (2), Baran (1) and Chittorgarh (1). The active cases touched new high of 8,387 on Wednesday, up from 8,052 on Tuesday and 7,627 cases on Monday. Besides, 620 patients have been cured taking the rally of such patients to 23,364.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-recovery-rate-dips-as-active-cases-keep-rising/articleshow/77116908.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Udaipur||Covid recovery rate dips in Rajasthan as active cases keep rising||JAIPUR: With new Covid infections increasing at 3% daily, the recovery rate, which had touched 80% on June 4, has now slipped to 72% in the state. Also, the virus has claimed lives of 2% of the patients. As the state government stepped up Covid testing, 961 new infections were reported from different parts of the state on Wednesday taking the tally to 32,334. During the day, six persons died taking the toll to 583. While three persons died in Bikaner taking the district’s toll to 27, another three died in Alwar taking its count to 11. The situation is turning worse in Jodhpur as 212 new infections have been reported in just 24 hours. It is the highest single-day spike in the district so far. With Wednesday’s surge, Jodhpur became the first district in the state to breach the 5,000-mark to reach 5,155 cases. However, no death has been reported from Jodhpur, despite the record spike in cases, which is a good sign as the focus of the government is more on preventing deaths. Districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (212), Alwar (180), Jaipur (85), Bikaner (59), Ajmer (48), Pali (39), Bharatpur (38), Jalore (37), Barmer (36), Udaipur (34), Dholpur (32), Nagaur (23), Kota (21), Jhalawar (14), Sirohi (14), Jaisalmer (13), Sikar (11), Hanumangarh (10), Churu (8), Bhilwara (8), Jhunjhunu (8), Rajsamand (7), Dausa (7), Karauli (6), Sriganganagar (3), Bundi (2), Banswara (2), Dungarpur (2), Baran (1) and Chittorgarh (1). The active cases touched new high of 8,387 on Wednesday, up from 8,052 on Tuesday and 7,627 cases on Monday. Besides, 620 patients have been cured taking the rally of such patients to 23,364.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/covid-recovery-rate-dips-as-active-cases-keep-rising/articleshow/77124664.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Nashik||Constable held for accepting bribe||Nashik: A police constable attached with Mhasrool police station was arrested on Tuesday by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) while accepting a bribe of Rs 2,000. Constable Sudhir Pawar had demanded Rs 2,000 from the complainant to avoid a preventive action against the latter.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/constable-held-for-accepting-bribe/articleshow/77114139.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Nashik||MUHS postpones exams for most courses||Nashik: The Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) has decided to defer most of the summer 2020 examinations of different undergraduate health science courses till further orders. The first-, second- and third-year exams of UG courses like dental, homeopathy, nursing, ayurveda, unani, physiotherapy etc. will not take place. Similarly, the second and third-year allopathy exams too have been postponed. All these exams were supposed to take place from August. The colleges of all these courses will begin thier next acacademic sessions (online/offline) from August 1. However, these students will have to clear the exams for their previous classes whenever the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences decides to conduct them. “As of now, the university will conduct only the final-year UG exam of all courses and allopathy (MBBS) exam for first-year repeaters from August 4 and August 17, respectively. The final-year UG students have to start their mandatory internship after completing the exam. Similarly, the first-year MBBS repeaters cannot be allowed to start their new academic session without clearing their exam,” the officials said. Medical education minister Amit Deshmukh has instructed all health science colleges to take Covid-related precautions when new academic sessions start. Varsity’s controller of examinations Ajit Pathak,has communicated to all health science institutes concerned of the MUHS decision on exam postponement. Pathak refused to comment on the matter as exam-related issues are being heard in the Bombay high court. “The schedule for the exams was declared on July 1. But the lockdown and quarantine rules are still prevalent in many parts of the state. Moreover, we have got the nod from central medical councils like Dental Council of India, Indian Nursing Council etc, to defer the exams,” said university sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/muhs-postpones-exams-for-most-courses/articleshow/77114147.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Trichy||Only 32 samples collected despite thousands at Trichy G-corner mkt||Trichy: After facing flak for delaying mass testing in G -corner wholesale vegetable market, where vendors who visited it contracted Covid-19, Trichy corporation collected 32 samples from the market in the early hours of Wednesday. However, with thousands of loadmen and vegetable traders visiting the market daily from other places, the low scale of testing was seen as an eyewash to avoid criticism. As many as 10 vegetable vendors in retail vegetable markets had tested positive for Covid-19 since July 1 during mass screening. A majority of them claimed to have travelled to the G-corner ground market on the Trichy-Chennai NH. Despite weeks passing since the vendors contracted the infection, the civic body did not undertake screening in the wholesale market. Since the entire city purchases vegetables from the market, the civic body finally conducted a screening camp around 1 am . “It seems Trichy corporation collected the (32) samples for the sake of testing after being compelled to. There will be at least 1,000 loadmen in the market during peak hours,” K Ramachandran, a vegetable vendor, said. Only less than 5% of the market’s population was covered in the drive.The civic body had collected 180 samples in May, all of which tested negative. Now, with Covid-19 cases in the city soaring and vegetable traders arriving from hotspots, the collection of only a few samples has disappointed the locals. “Only senior citizens with comorbidities and symptomatic traders in the wholesale market were covered in the sample collection drive,” an official with Trichy corporation said. Since it happened around 1 am, the drive took a toll on the efficiency of the corporation employees who were already tired after their morning engagements, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/only-32-samples-collected-despite-thousands-at-trichy-g-corner-mkt/articleshow/77116918.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Customs seize parcels with MDMA||Ahmedabad: In two separate cases, Customs officers on Wednesday, seized postal import parcels at the Foreign Post Office in Ahmedabad, suspected to contain psychotropic drugs. On examination, it emerged that both parcels contained the synthetic drug MDMA (3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine). Commonly known as ‘ecstasy’, it produces hallucinations. It is getting more widely used of late, department officials said. According to a statement issued by Ahmedabad Customs, both the parcels had been booked from Europe and arrived in Ahmedabad. One parcel contained pouches with some 135 pills (56g) The other parcel contained three books and a book case and had six pouches, in which 504 colourful pills roughly weighing 240g were found. According to Customs officials, the total value of these pills is Rs 12 lakh. Sources said the parcels had originated from the Netherlands and were to be delivered to addresses in Ahmedabad and Dadra and Nagar Haveli. Both addresses turned out to be non-existent. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/customs-seize-parcels-with-mdma/articleshow/77116324.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Chief secretary-led committee suggests blacklisting PwC||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The two-member committee consisting of chief secretary Vishwas Mehta and additional chief secretary (finance) Rajesh Kumar Singh has recommended the government to take punitive action against the consultant Pricewaterhouse Coopers (PwC) and blacklist the firm from all IT-department projects. The committee that probed the links of former IT secretary M Sivasankar with Swapna Suresh, a key accused in the gold smuggling case, also found that it was with Sivasankar’s reference that Swapna had approached the concerned for the job. The committee report said that though there were three positions identified in SpacePark for recruitment through PwC, only the post of operations manager was filled through the consultant. The other positions were filled through the internal working arrangement from Kerala state IT infrastructure limited (KSITL). The report found that Swapna approached the special officer for SpacePark in August 2019, with a reference from the then IT secretary Sivasankar, while still working as a secretary to the consul general of UAE. Also, both the managing director of KSITL as well as special officer for SpacePark had cross-checked the reference of Swapna with Sivasankar, and got it confirmed. The committee has also asked PwC if there has been a recommendation from Sivasankar for Swapna to PwC as well, so as to ascertain the role played by former IT secretary in Swapna’s recruitment. But PwC is yet to reply in this regard. But the committee reported that the overall sequence of events points fingers to the fact that Sivasankar had a hand in recommending a person with dubious credentials to a post in SpacePark. Though she was appointed in SpacePark through Visiontek, the human resources agency used by PwC, the failure on the part of PwC to ensure due diligence with respect to the selection of the candidate would mean that a punitive action against the consultancy firm. Even though KSITL has slapped a notice on PwC for this crucial omission, blacklisting this company by the KSITL and IT department itself, would be appropriate, the panel recommended. The committee also recommended that Sivasankar’s call list should be examined in detail to unearth the extent of his association with Swapna. Quoting the guidelines of the central vigilance commission (CVC), the report of the committee also said that there is no harm in initiating a departmental inquiry against Sivasankar even when a criminal investigation is on. The government, which initially had cited that action against Sivasankar can be taken only if there is an adverse finding from the agencies investigating the gold smuggling, was forced to initiate departmental action based on the committee’s report. The committee also recommended a detailed verification of appointments to 36 posts in KSITL by the finance inspection wing (FIW). The committee also recommended that all recent appointments made in various agencies, special purpose vehicles and projects under the IT department should be verified by FIW.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/chief-secy-led-committee-suggests-blacklisting-pwc/articleshow/77115405.cms||KP Saikiran
July 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Illegal power from Haryana lit 40 UP farmhouses, probe on||CHANDIGARH: The vigilance wing of Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) has unearthed an illegal electricity connection allegedly taken by an Uttar Pradesh power distribution network for supply to 40 farmhouses of influential people along the bank of river Yamuna. Preliminary investigations have hinted at involvement of some officers and employees of DHBVN in the racket and they have been put under the vigilance scanner. According to information, the electricity theft was being facilitated through a 15kv connection given to a resident of Dadasia village located on the UP-Haryana border in the trans-Yamuna area of Faridabad. Some UP electricity officials had allegedly created their own infrastructure using this connection to supply power to the farmhouses. The vigilance wing has found that 24 transformers and cables from government supply were used to create the power supply network. “Our teams have snapped all the connections and taken the transformers in possession. A three-member team of executive engineers is probing this from all angles and will submit a report soon,’’ said superintending engineer (SE) Naresh Kakkar, who is supervising the operation. Sources informed that gaining access to these farmhouses to detect illegal connection and supplies was not an easy job. On Monday, a team of DHBVN officials had to hire a boat to reach the village, but the people on the UP side forced the team to return empty handed. “Then we requisitioned police parties to accompany the vigilance wing team. They carried out the entire operation and reached every single premises where illegal connections were provided,’’ said Kakkar. The SE told TOI that initially Pardeep Tyagi, a landlord in Dadasi village, had taken the 15kv connection in 2015. He is learned to have paid actual bills till 2017. But, the bill was charged later on an average basis, as the electricity meter was removed. An underground cable was laid to connect the distribution network beyond the state border. Further networking was done by laying 11,000kv cables and transformers. “We have already recommended registration of a case against Tyagi. Besides, we are also making a case against others involved in the scam,’’ said Kakkar When contacted, Haryana power minister Ranjit Singh Chautala lauded the efforts of the Faridabad team. “We have zero tolerance for electricity theft and those involved in such acts. Once the probe is over, we shall give exemplary punishment to those who were involved in the theft,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/illegal-power-from-haryana-lit-40-up-farmhouses-probe-on/articleshow/77116917.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||ACB launches decoy drive at govt offices||AHMEDABAD: The Anti-corruption Bureau (ACB) has instructed all its police inspectors (PIs) to register at least one case by deploying decoys at government offices between July 18 and 25. A circular issued by ACB Gujarat’s special director Keshav Kumar on July 18, bearing the header “very secret”, states that “every PI must register one successful decoy case” in that period.  “Such government offices where most works are directly linked with people must be monitored,” the circular further says. “Officers should make themselves well aware about the way government officers and employees do corruption there.” It also says that ACB officials must develop their network of informers at the local level and contact people who have become victims of corruption. The ACB PIs will make the decoys aware about the ways to trap corrupt officers and employees. The circular states that ACB unit heads will ensure this drive is successful and will file a report on July 26. Kumar confirmed that it was a genuine circular.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/acb-launches-decoy-drive-at-govt-offices/articleshow/77116331.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Teachers may face risk of job loss’||Ahmedabad: Teachers working at self-financed schools may be in risk of facing pay cuts or even losing their jobs, said experts in the education sector. Many said the same after the state government’s recent directive which disallows schools from collecting fees for the period when they were physically shut due to Covid-19 crisis. There are as many as 10 lakh teachers employed at self-financed schools in the state. “School authorities may be forced to lay off teachers and other staff members till they can re-open and physical classroom studies resume,” said a member of Gujarat State School Management Association. Some schools have already cut down on salaries of teachers, according to the government notification. “It has come to the government’s notice, that some private schools have not paid salaries to the teaching and non-teaching staff or has paid only 40-50% of their salaries during the lockdown period,” it states. The notification also states that when the fees for next year (2021-2022) will be decided by the Fees Regulatory Committee (FRC), it will consider actual expenses and salaries paid to the teaching and non-teaching staff by the schools during this lockdown period while deciding on their expenses for 2021-22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/teachers-may-face-risk-of-job-loss/articleshow/77116916.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata stocks up on essentials till weekend||KOLKATA: The biweekly lockdown has a day’s gap in between, but the perception among people is that it is going to be a week-long lockdown. This has triggered a mad rush among people to stock up on fruits, vegetables, milk, poultry, fish and groceries. Hoardable items flew off first. By 12 noon, potato sellers seemed to have made a killing. Almost every market in the city saw a massive surge in crowds on Wednesday morning. Vendors insisted that they would not be back before Sunday, so people must buy in bulk. Prices soared too. Even inferior quality produces, flew off quickly. The two qualities of potatoes in the market like Jyoti and Chandramukhi were sold for Rs 32 and Rs 35 per kilogram while onions were sold for Rs 28-30 per kilogram, both considerably higher than the normal price. The onions sold in the markets were not fresh with black or peeled off skins. These were the old stocks that vendors brought out for sale, taking advantage of the panic buying before the lockdown. “Almost none of the vendors had the fresh pink/peach coloured varieties on Wednesday and they said supplies were unavailable and one would have to wait till Monday. I think this is deliberate. We were forced to buy the vegetable of inferior quality. The upper peels cannot be used and some are also rotten inside,”said Suhrid Chandra Paul, a retired BSF officer who shops at the Kasba market. “A section of retail traders should be blamed for taking advantage of the lockdown. There has no appreciation of price of commodities in the wholesale markets. In fact, prices of some vegetables dipped marginally. We need to be careful before the next lockdown on Saturday,” said Kamal Dey, a member of market task force. Fashion designer Shweta Kohli visited the local grocery hypermarket and stocked up till Monday. She visited the New Alipore Market and bought vegetables for both herself and her mother who lives nearby. “I have also stocked up on milk for the next four days. I am sure on Friday and Sunday the milk supplies will be affected and hence I have bought enough and put them in the freezer,” she said. The price of tomatoes touched Rs 100 on Wednesday — a jump of Rs 40 from the beginning of the week. Even the humble pumpkin that had been sold for Rs 25- Rs 30 per kilogram till Tuesday, was sold for Rs 40 per kilogram on Wednesday. Striped gourd, ridged gourd, snake gourd and lady’s finger were all priced at Rs 50-Rs 60, a jump of Rs 20. Medium-sized cauliflowers were sold for Rs 60 per piece while cabbages was sold for Rs 50 per kilogram in most of the markets. The price of fish too was high with katla being sold for Rs 500 (full/half) and rohu for Rs 225 per kilogram. Prawn (tiger) was sold for Rs 550, up by Rs 100 per kilogram while pomphret (big) was priced at Rs 700 per kilogram, up by Rs 100-Rs 150, depending on the locality. “I have stocked up on fish and eggs for the rest of the week. Normally, I buy fish on Sundays but I am not taking any risk because it is likely that the vendors might not return on Friday or choose to skip Sunday as well,” said Anasuya Banerjee, a resident of Harish Mukherjee Road, who runs a dance academy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-stocks-up-on-essentials-till-weekend/articleshow/77116329.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
July 23, 2020||Jaipur||SMS Hospital will set up Rajasthan’s first plasma bank||JAIPUR: Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital will be the first in the state to set up a plasma bank which will be useful for Covid-19 treatment. The plasma collected at the bank will be used for convalescent plasma therapy as the hospital claimed that it has been found effective in Covid-19 treatment. “We have stepped up efforts to establish the plasma bank in our hospital. Soon we will able to complete the formalities,” said Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller of SMS Medical College. For its effective functioning, the SMS Hospital is also taking measures to encourage donors. “We are planning to involve NGOs for encouraging those persons who have recovered from Covid-19 to donate their plasma for saving life of the other Covid-19 patients. So far, we have successfully provided plasma therapy to 47 patients who have recovered from Covid-19,” said Dr Ajit Singh, additional superintendent, SMS Hospital. He said that they will store blood plasma collected from donors and whenever it is required, it will be transfused into Covid-19 patients. Those who have been cured of Covid have antibodies in their blood plasma which help in recovery of the patients when it is transfused into them. However, the plasma should be donated between 28 days and four months after their recovery. Aiming for its large-scale use, government has decided to give a boost to plasma therapy in state by expanding it to other government-run medical colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sms-hosp-will-set-up-rajs-1st-plasma-bank/articleshow/77116915.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Trichy||Cancellation of fever camp at last minute lets down locals||Trichy: The decision to cancel the conduct of a fever camp planned in Srirangam zone at the last minute on Wednesday evening has disappointed residents of Andar street in Teppakulam locality. The failure of the civic body to inform the locals about the change of plan left many residents scrambling in search of the fever camp. As per the schedule released by Trichy Corporation, a fever camp was proposed to be conducted at East Andar Street on Wednesday evening. However, due to the huge footfall in the fever camp conducted by Teppakulam PHC in the morning at Rockfort locality, the evening’s fever camp was cancelled by the local body as the medical officer had to oversee both the camps. The medical team also had additional duty at the UPHC, officials claimed. However, the event being cancelled was not conveyed to the Andar street locals who were unaware of the event being cancelled. “I had a mild fever and had hoped to get myself screened. The local body could have at least informed us about the cancellation through its social media handles,” Saran Kumar, a resident of Andar Street said.As two other fever camps are planned in different locations on Thursday, the civic body is unclear whether a fever camp would be organized in Andar street in coming days. “We are making arrangements to host a fever camp for ward number 11 residents covering Andar street. The public will be informed about our alternative plan,” an official with Trichy Corporation said. Residents have sought the civic body to be more specific in mentioning the timing and exact locations of the fever camps. So far, the civic body has been mentioning only the name of the where a camp is organized but not the definite location.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cancellation-of-fever-camp-at-last-minute-lets-down-locals/articleshow/77116919.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Kolkata||100 Covid-19 cases: Highest one-day spike in Kolkata's Bidhannagar||KOLKATA: The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation area on Wednesday witnessed a single-day highest spike with 100 Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 1,373. The number of containment zones are yet to be increased or revised since it was set up two weeks ago. Several markets in Salt Lake are staying shut on alternate days even as the Bidhannagar civic authorities are putting in more effort to create awareness on the need to wear masks and the importance of washing hands. In New Town, days after an East-West Metro construction site became a containment zone after scores of labourers tested positive for Covid, the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) has started organizing health check-ups for labourers working at various construction sites in co-ordination with a local NGO from Wednesday. “We conducted health check-up of 80 labourers at a construction site in New Town. Based on the doctors’ feedback and initial screening, we identified five labourers as suspects and sent their swab samples for testing,” said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen. In adjacent South DumDum and Dum Dum municipality areas, the civic authorities have enforced a partial lockdown. They are now planning to start safe houses and isolation homes with Covid numbers continuing to rise rapidly as many of the affected are finding it difficult to manage in their own house. “Not only there is a social taboo associated with Covid patients, but also, if they have mild symptoms, patients may need medical assistance,” said Barun Natta, member of the administrative board of Dum Dum Municipality. The municipal body is likely to inaugurate a safe home for homeless Covid-19 patients soon. South Dum Dum Municipality is also planning to go the similar way. “Most of the families stay in flats and if one family member gets infected, there is no way he or she can get isolated in the flat. We are talking to some buildings, which are let out for marriage purposes so that we can arrange beds and other facilities,” said Prabir Pal, member of the board of administrators at South Dum Dum municipality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/100-cases-highest-one-day-spike-in-bidhannagar/articleshow/77116320.cms||Suman Chakraborti
July 23, 2020||Surat||Rs 2 lakh robbed from dairy in Varachha||Surat: Varachha police booked two unidentified persons on Wednesday for alleged robbery of Rs 1.8 lakh from a dairy and injuring a 72-year-old man early on Wednesday. The robbers attacked Arjan Kansagara who was at his shop, Giriraj Dairy, in Shakti Dhara Apartment in Kuber Nagar, while his son had gone out to distribute milk. At around 5.15 am two persons arrived on a motorcycle with covered faces and stopped near the shop. One of them came inside and asked for milk pouches and gave a Rs200 note to pay. Kansagara returned him the remaining amount and went to get the milk pouches from the refrigerator when the man entered the shop and grabbed Kansagara from behind and pushed him. The robber also hit Kansagara twice with a knife on the face. Meanwhile, the other robber came inside the shop and looted the cash kept in the cash box and then the duo escaped on their motorcycle. Kansagara informed the police that the cash was meant to be deposited in the bank. Police are examining CCTV footage of the area to identify the motorcycle used in the robbery. “We received information about some robbers and attempts are on to nab them,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/rs-2-lakh-robbed-from-dairy-in-varachha/articleshow/77115415.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Chandigarh||2 kids drown in canal in Yamunanagar, body of 1 found||YAMUNANAGAR: Two minor children of a family at Sukhpura village of Yamunanagar district drowned in the Western Jamuna Canal (WJC) when they had gone to take bath on Tuesday evening. Police and rescue teams along with divers reached the spot in the night, but due to rain and high flow of water, the search operation could not be started. Yamunanagar Sadar police SHO sub-inspector Dharampal Singh said, “We started the search early in the morning and the body of Tanishq Kumar (12), one of the missing children, was recovered from the canal on Wednesday. However, the other child, Harsh Kumar (14), is still missing. The teams are searching for him.” As per the information, three cousins Tanishq, Harsh and Vansh had gone to play at a stadium near WJC at Sukhpura village area at about 4pm on Tuesday. “After playing for some time at the stadium, they reached the canal bank where the villagers usually wash hands and feet. Tanishq and Harsh entered WJC to take bath and went missing. They did not know swimming and drowned in the canal. The third child, Vansh rushed home and told us that Tanishq and Harsh had gone missing in the canal. We reached there and found their clothes and slippers lying on the bank of the canal,” said Naseeb Singh, grandfather of the children. Nasib said they searched a lot for the children but failed to trace them. “On Wednesday, the body of Tanishq was fished out from the canal and the police are searching for another missing child, Harsh,” said Naseeb. Harsh studied in Class IX and Tanishq Class VI, said Naseeb. “After conducting the postmortem, the body of Tanishq was handed over to the family for last rites. The teams of NDRF and divers are searching for Harsh,” said SHO Dharampal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-kids-drown-in-canal-in-yamunanagar-body-of-1-found/articleshow/77116920.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Train mows down three railway workers in Vikarabad||Hyderabad: Three workers died on the spot after they were run over by a train on the railway tracks bridge between Chittigadda area in Vikarabad district here on Wednesday afternoon. The deceased persons were identified as N Pratap Reddy (56), D Naveen Kumar (35), both from Hyderabad and Shamsheer Ali (25) from Bihar. According to Vikarabad railway police, at least 12 workers were on maintenance job and were painting the bridge.  All three died on the spot after sustaining severe injuries. The workers were unaware of the train coming towards them. “One of the workers was stationed at the rest box to wave a red flag if and when a train comes, but there was no communication from the station about the train,” said another officer. However, by the time the workers noticed the train, it was too late. While a few of them jumped 13 feet down from the bridge into the water, others ran towards the rest box. “Three workers could not escape. Their bodies were dragged for at least 150 metres,” said SI Venkat Reddy from Vikarabad government railway police. All three died on the spot after sustaining severe injuries. The bodies of the victims have been shifted to the government hospital mortuary and a case of suspicious death was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/train-mows-down-three-railway-workers-in-vikarabad/articleshow/77115410.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Keam crowd: Case filed against 600 parents for violating social distance norms||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Police initiated legal action against the parents of Keam (Kerala Engineering Architecture Medical) entrance exam candidates who gathered in large numbers outside a city school on previous Thursday, violating social distancing norms. Medical College police registered a case against 300 persons and Museum police registered another case against 300 persons invoking relevant sections under Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance for violating social distancing norms. Police said that both cases were registered on the day the exam was conducted. The picture of a large crowd outside St Mary’s HS School, Pattom that went viral on social media had invited criticism. The case registered by Museum police was against parents who gathered in front of Cotton Hill GHSS. While some criticism was directed at the irresponsible attitude of parents, who did not follow social distancing norms, the rest was targeted at the government for conducting the exam despite the alarming rise in new cases in state. The decision to hold exam in the capital, where a triple lockdown is in effect, was condemned by many. People’s worst fear came true when two students, who wrote the exam, and the parent of another student turned positive days ago. Medical College station house officer inspector G Harilal said that the persons who were booked in the case are mostly the ones who were part of the photo that went viral. Meanwhile, police action too invited criticism from various quarters. MP Shashi Tharoor registered a protest on his social media page and demanded that the case be withdrawn. He said that he was shocked and outraged by police action. "Student community and political leaders had requested the government to postpone the exam in the wake of the pandemic. They unwisely went ahead and several students, who appeared for the exam, tested positive in the last 48 hours" he wrote on his official social media page. " BJP state president K Surendran said that it’s not the parents but chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who is the real culprit in the case. The parents had requested the government to postpone the exam but it arrogantly went ahead and conducted the exam, pushing over 80,000 candidates into danger. This could be a ploy to divert the attention of the people from the gold smuggling case that has affected CMO, Surendran said in his statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/keam-crowd-case-filed-against-600-parents-for-violating-social-distance-norms/articleshow/77115386.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Amid revenue loss, tourism sector seeks bailout||VISAKHAPATNAM: A number of travel associations in the state have written to chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy to bail out the tourism industry and take up their issues with the central government.  The associations have made suggestions about a tourism aid and restructuring package. The request has also been communicated to state tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao and other top tourism officials. The sector was one of the first to be affected globally by the pandemic. Since January, the travel sector in Andhra Pradesh has incurred a revenue loss of about Rs 2,000 crore. Projected loss by the year-end is Rs 3,400 crore, with over 90% jobs cut and net revenue loss. The sector has requested the creation of a support fund by the government for its employees, bringing all tourism employees under the Aarogyasri scheme, waiver of road taxes, power bill and property tax for closed tourism offices, conducting rapid Covid-19 tests for travelers and undertaking various measures to revive the sector. Speaking to TOI about the recommendations, K Vijay Mohan, president of TTAA said, “We request that a support fund be created by the government for six months on the lines of MGNREGA to support basic salaries with direct transfer to affected tourism employees besides bringing them under Aarogyasri scheme. The travel industry is looking at bankruptcies, closure of businesses, and mass unemployment and no bank loans. The state government should declare travel and tourism as an industry considering its contribution of nearly 10% to GDP (including Tirupati pilgrimage tourism) and the employment it provides. Also, we request AP government to start quick rapid test, by conducting an on-site rapid Covid-19 test for all passengers.” The associations also suggested setting up a state level tourism task force comprising representatives from key travel associations and the hotel industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/amid-revenue-loss-sector-seeks-bailout/articleshow/77115402.cms||Sulogna Mehta
July 23, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: Amid revenue loss, tourism sector seeks bailout||VISAKHAPATNAM: A number of travel associations in the state have written to chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy to bail out the tourism industry and take up their issues with the central government.  The associations have made suggestions about a tourism aid and restructuring package. The request has also been communicated to state tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao and other top tourism officials. The sector was one of the first to be affected globally by the pandemic. Since January, the travel sector in Andhra Pradesh has incurred a revenue loss of about Rs 2,000 crore. Projected loss by the year-end is Rs 3,400 crore, with over 90% jobs cut and net revenue loss. The sector has requested the creation of a support fund by the government for its employees, bringing all tourism employees under the Aarogyasri scheme, waiver of road taxes, power bill and property tax for closed tourism offices, conducting rapid Covid-19 tests for travelers and undertaking various measures to revive the sector. Speaking to TOI about the recommendations, K Vijay Mohan, president of TTAA said, “We request that a support fund be created by the government for six months on the lines of MGNREGA to support basic salaries with direct transfer to affected tourism employees besides bringing them under Aarogyasri scheme. The travel industry is looking at bankruptcies, closure of businesses, and mass unemployment and no bank loans. The state government should declare travel and tourism as an industry considering its contribution of nearly 10% to GDP (including Tirupati pilgrimage tourism) and the employment it provides. Also, we request AP government to start quick rapid test, by conducting an on-site rapid Covid-19 test for all passengers.” The associations also suggested setting up a state level tourism task force comprising representatives from key travel associations and the hotel industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/amid-revenue-loss-sector-seeks-bailout/articleshow/77122226.cms||Sulogna Mehta
July 23, 2020||Delhi||A problem of plenty: Congested areas have maximum infections in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Among Delhi’s 11 districts, the highest number of people have been infected by the novel coronavirus in Central district, where the infection rate is 27.9%. South West district was the least affected, with just 12.9% of its inhabitants falling prey. These findings of the serological surveillance tests could possibly be explained by major areas of Central district being densely populated, while large swathes in South West district have a sparse population. Districts with upscale areas, such as New Delhi (22.1%) and South (18.6%) or with rural stretches, such as West (19.1%), have a lower infection percentage compared with densely popular districts with unauthorised colonies like East (23.9%), North (25.3%), Shahdara (27.6%) and North East (27.7%). The sero test samples were collected from across areas representing upscale residential areas, slums and unauthorised colonies, and across all age groups. With 27.7% of its population found Covid-infected, North East district has now implemented all government guidelines for containment of the disease, but there are challenges unique to the district. Dr V K Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, told TOI that the results weren’t unexpected. “Population density is an important determinant of the spread of this infection. World over, it has been seen that the infection has affected mega cities where the population density is higher,” he said. The higher infection could also be because the source of infection was not known in nearly 50% of the cases, observed an official. Since the behaviour of the coronavirus is uncertain, the authorities were unable to pinpoint the exact causes behind the varying rate of infection among the different districts. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news However, the districts with lower infection rates attributed this to quick mitigation efforts mounted by them. “Effective containment, heightened surveillance through more than 1,000 corona warriors, aggressive testing at each of the 40 dispensaries in the district, methodical isolation strategy, including the transfer to isolation centres of all positive cases in dense colonies and JJ clusters are reasons for the lower rate of infection,” claimed Rahul Singh, district magistrate (South West). A source said one of the reasons behind Central recording the highest percentage of infection had to be the congestion. The district is a hub of business activities and has several wholesale markets, besides the crammed old Delhi localities of Darya Ganj, Jama Masjid, Chandni Mahal, Sadar Bazar, Chandni Chowk, Lahori Gate and Mori Gate. There are a few upscale localities as well. Under aggressive containment strategy, Sadar Bazaar was declared a containment zone as early as April 9 followed by Chandni Mahal and Nabi Karim on April 10. “We reported less than 1% Covid-positivity rate in the special surveillance of weaker and vulnerable sections of society,” said a district official. On the implications of the serological surveillance suggesting at almost a quarter of Delhi’s citizens had been exposed to Covid already, Dr Paul warned against being complacent. “Three-fourths of the population is unaffected and at risk of infection,” the Niti Aayog member said. “In fact, this calls for further strengthening of public health measures such as physical distancing, use of masks and frequent washing of hands.” Read Also‘Expect Covid vaccine to be available by year-end’With all eyes on the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine candidate, its Pune-based manufacturing partner Serum Institute plans to make one billion doses of the jab over the next year for India and other low- and middle-income countries. Serum CEO Adar Poonawalla tells Sushmi Dey he wants to keep the price ofAccording to Dr Sanjay Rai, professor of community medicine at AIIMS, any disease that spreads from person to person is more pronounced in urban areas due to population density. “Initially, the lockdown helped prevent infection. But as soon as the restrictions on public movement were eased, the cases began soaring. However, it seems we are now approaching herd immunity,” he said. Another official said that unlike other districts, there were no big hospitals in his North East district. “Nearby districts have major state government hospitals like Guru Tegh Bahadur and Rajiv Gandhi Specialty which are conducting many tests. Despite our dense population, all we have in our district are lab assistants to carry out tests,” he maintained. “As many localities in the district are congested, the chances of Covid spreading is very high.” Other district officials also assured that all guidelines on containment zones and testing were being strictly followed. “If the strategy has to be modified or a new policy created based on the serological survey results, the decision will be taken at the top level in Delhi government,” one official said. Watch Covid-19: Congested areas in Delhi have maximum coronavirus infections||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-problem-of-plenty-congested-areas-have-maximum-infections/articleshow/77116361.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Trichy||Plea to okay proposed trains from Trichy to Bengaluru||TRICHY: The Tamil Nadu Consumer Protection Council has appealed to the officials to approve the proposal to run two new trains from Trichy to Bengaluru and expedite the launch of the trains. The Southern Railway had come up with the proposal to run a bi-weekly express train between Baippanahalli and Trichy and another daytime train between Trichy and Bengaluru, at a time table committee meeting held in Bengaluru. While extending its thanks to the chairman of Railway Board, the council said that the proposed trains would fulfill the long standing demand of the people of central Tamil Nadu for a dedicated train service to Bengaluru. State secretary, S Pushpavanam, said in a statement that the trains should be launched at the earliest. He said that efforts should be taken to operate the trains via the Karur-Namakkal-Salem route. "In response to a representation made by us, a special daytime train was run between Trichy and Yashwantpur for a week’s time from December 29, 2018 and again on January 13, 2019. However, those trains were discontinued. The proposed train to Baippanahalli is a better option for us. So, we request the officials to launch the trains as soon as possible after the lockdown is over", he stated. He further said that if the trains were run it would be very profitable for railways as the route is a very busy one. As many as 33 buses are running between Trichy and Bengaluru to cater to the demand, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/plea-to-okay-proposed-trains-from-trichy-tobengaluru/articleshow/77116924.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Gurgaon||2 kids drown in canal in Yamunanagar, body of 1 found||YAMUNANAGAR: Two minor children of a family at Sukhpura village of Yamunanagar district drowned in the Western Jamuna Canal (WJC) when they had gone to take bath on Tuesday evening. Police and rescue teams along with divers reached the spot in the night, but due to rain and high flow of water, the search operation could not be started. Yamunanagar Sadar police SHO sub-inspector Dharampal Singh said, “We started the search early in the morning and the body of Tanishq Kumar (12), one of the missing children, was recovered from the canal on Wednesday. However, the other child, Harsh Kumar (14), is still missing. The teams are searching for him.” As per the information, three cousins Tanishq, Harsh and Vansh had gone to play at a stadium near WJC at Sukhpura village area at about 4pm on Tuesday. “After playing for some time at the stadium, they reached the canal bank where the villagers usually wash hands and feet. Tanishq and Harsh entered WJC to take bath and went missing. They did not know swimming and drowned in the canal. The third child, Vansh rushed home and told us that Tanishq and Harsh had gone missing in the canal. We reached there and found their clothes and slippers lying on the bank of the canal,” said Naseeb Singh, grandfather of the children. Nasib said they searched a lot for the children but failed to trace them. “On Wednesday, the body of Tanishq was fished out from the canal and the police are searching for another missing child, Harsh,” said Naseeb. Harsh studied in Class IX and Tanishq Class VI, said Naseeb. “After conducting the postmortem, the body of Tanishq was handed over to the family for last rites. The teams of NDRF and divers are searching for Harsh,” said SHO Dharampal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/2-kids-drown-in-canal-in-yamunanagar-body-of-1-found/articleshow/77121587.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Amid revenue loss, tourism sector seeks bailout||VISAKHAPATNAM: A number of travel associations in the state have written to chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy to bail out the tourism industry and take up their issues with the central government.  The associations have made suggestions about a tourism aid and restructuring package. The request has also been communicated to state tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao and other top tourism officials. The sector was one of the first to be affected globally by the pandemic. Since January, the travel sector in Andhra Pradesh has incurred a revenue loss of about Rs 2,000 crore. Projected loss by the year-end is Rs 3,400 crore, with over 90% jobs cut and net revenue loss. The sector has requested the creation of a support fund by the government for its employees, bringing all tourism employees under the Aarogyasri scheme, waiver of road taxes, power bill and property tax for closed tourism offices, conducting rapid Covid-19 tests for travelers and undertaking various measures to revive the sector. Speaking to TOI about the recommendations, K Vijay Mohan, president of TTAA said, “We request that a support fund be created by the government for six months on the lines of MGNREGA to support basic salaries with direct transfer to affected tourism employees besides bringing them under Aarogyasri scheme. The travel industry is looking at bankruptcies, closure of businesses, and mass unemployment and no bank loans. The state government should declare travel and tourism as an industry considering its contribution of nearly 10% to GDP (including Tirupati pilgrimage tourism) and the employment it provides. Also, we request AP government to start quick rapid test, by conducting an on-site rapid Covid-19 test for all passengers.” The associations also suggested setting up a state level tourism task force comprising representatives from key travel associations and the hotel industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/amid-revenue-loss-sector-seeks-bailout/articleshow/77122228.cms||Sulogna Mehta
July 23, 2020||Nashik||Cops plan to stick QR codes on 270 bldgs||Nashik: Apart from the containment zones in the city where police have deployed personnel to ensure there is no unnecessary movement of people in order to curb the spread of Covid-19, a strict vigil is being planned for standalone residential buildings where positive patients have been reported.About two years ago, the police had introduced the QR code system to keep a check on police patrolling in different parts of the city. The QR code stickers were put up outside banks, ATMs, schools, religious places, important government establishments, commercial and residential complexes. The police teams who are given the task of patrolling specific areas need to scan this QR codes on their phones. With the help of a software, the in-charge police officer then comes to know whether the patrolling team has done the job well.The same system is now being used to keep a check on unnecessary movement of people at residential buildings or societies where Covid-19 patients have been found by putting the QR codes at such buildings.“A process of putting such QR codes has been started across the city over the past couple of days,” DCP Amol Tambe said, adding that so far 275 such codes have been put up in Nashik.“Under the guidance police commissioner Vishwas Nangare Patil, we have prepared around 1,300 QR codes. Bigger containment areas like the old city have been excluded from the QR code plan as there is already huge police bandobast. Now since the patients are increasing, police personnel cannot be deployed everywhere around the clock. However, once the QR codes are put up on separate buildings, the police personnel will visit every such building scan the code and ensure that there was no free movement of people in the concerned building. Those found violating the norms can also be booked,” Tambe said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cops-plan-to-stick-qr-codes-on-270-bldgs/articleshow/77114169.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 23, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rs 3.5 cr IGST scam busted||Ahmedabad: Customs officials on Wednesday busted a scam worth Rs 3.5 crore in refunds of integrated goods and services tax (IGST). Investigators detected three cases, at the Ahmedabad Air Cargo Complex and ICD Khodiyar, of export over-valuation to get illegal IGST refunds. “Exporters based in Delhi and Mumbai attempted to clear goods by declaring inflated values (more than 40 times) and claiming IGST refunds based on the wrong declarations. Proper examination of the goods revealed their actual prices,” a statement from Customs said. In two cases at the Air Cargo Complex, ‘Electrical capacitors/washers’ which were valued at Rs 5.57 crore were seized and IGST refund worth Rs 2.12 crore was protected. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs-3-5-cr-igst-scam-busted/articleshow/77116343.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Noida||SEZ operating with less than half the workforce||NOIDA: The Noida special economic zone (SEZ), a cluster of 240 small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) where 180 units are currently functional, is operating with only about 20,000 employees, down by about 10,000 from the numbers seen just after the lockdown curbs were eased and factories were allowed to open in May and June. These are apart from the 9,000 IT professionals who are working from home. Prior to the coronavirus lockdown, the SEZ had at least 50,000 employees reporting on the shop floors. But during the lockdown, over 10,000 migrant workers returned to their home states. And post-Unlock, the exporters had to let go another 10,000 workers as they did not have enough orders to retain all their employees. Though the SEZ has absorbed about 3,000 migrants, who have been placed through the district industries officer, factory owners complain of a lack of skills among those who are made available to them. Morever, the factory owners say absenteeism has also crept in among the workforce, with some workers just reporting for work about four days in a 6-day work-week. Lack of public transport is another reason being cited for low attendance. Also, they say that many of the workers who have left are unwilling to return because of the continued uncertainty over lockdown. “Immediately after Unlock, the exporters did not have enough orders to retain workers. So, many workers had to be laid off. Subsequently, some needed workers and they were hired from the list provided by the district industries office, but there is still a lot of skill gap because people who are available are not instantly able to replace the skilled people who have left,” Ajay Goel, president of Noida SEZ Welfare Association, said. Goel pointed out that employers are also facing a problem in ensuring that the workers turn up daily. “The SEZ has a six-day week, but absenteeism has increased. People are turning up for 3-4 days a week. Some of the workers are not even concerned with salary deductions. Many are citing lack of public transport as a reason for not turning up. So only those factories that are offering their own pick-up and drop are functioning somewhat properly.” However, he pointed out that about 9,000 IT professionals are working from home. “During lockdown, we had allowed 9,000 employees in IT and knowledge-based positions to work from home, and they are still engaged. So, the total number of employees at SEZ, including them, would be 29,000,” Goel said. Commenting on the lack of work, Pawan Kumar, north zone chief of Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), said, “Not just factories, employment has also gone off the street business. A lot of migrants were engaged as street vendors — selling fruits, ice-cream, vegetables, running roadside stalls. So, it’s not just that construction has come to a stop or factories are not recruiting, small-time work has also stopped. Even if people are slowly trying to come back, they may not be able to get jobs.” The Indian Industries Association (IIA) had signed an MOU with the UP government to employ 3 lakh workers in Gautam Budh Nagar from among the migrant labourers who have returned to the state. “We called people from the list given to us, but there is still a reluctance among a majority of them to come to cities. By our estimate, the industrial situation will still take a few months to return to normalcy,” said Kulmani Gupta, chairman, IIA-Noida.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/sez-operating-with-less-than-half-the-workforce/articleshow/77116928.cms||Sharmila Bhowmick
July 23, 2020||Trichy||RDO begins inquiry into police firing at Pudukottai||Trichy: Pudukottai district collector P Uma Maheswari has ordered the revenue divisional officer to submit a report after conducting an inquiry into what has led the police firing to suppress violent clashes between two groups at Pusampatti village on Tuesday. K Pudupatti sub-inspector, special sub-inspector and a constable will appear before revenue divisional officer Balathandayuthapani on Thursday for the inquiry. The clashes occurred between the supporters of Parasivam and Sellaiah, both relatives belonging to Vallambar – a backward class community in the village. They had previous enmity over sand mining and it aggravated further after the local body polls. Derogatory remarks on the social media by one group against the other had led to the clashes on Tuesday, according to police. Sub-inspector Saravanan opened fire in the air twice to disperse two groups that clashed with weapons in Pusampatti village. Around 200 people who had clashed left more than 10 people injured, including Saravanan. The RDO visited Pusampatti on Wednesday and interacted with the villagers on the clash. Five families residing close to the spot where the clash occurred told the RDO that there may have been casualties if police had not opened fire. Balathandayuthapani said that the collector has passed the order under Section 151 of the Police Standing Order Act. A report will be submitted within two days on the firing incident. As many as 16 people have been arrested in connection with the clash and cases have been registered against 20 people including Parasivam and Sellaiah. The arrested were produced before Thirumayam court and have been lodged in Arannthangi sub jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rdo-begins-inquiry-into-police-firing-at-pudukottai/articleshow/77116926.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Kolkata||Locked down, Kolkata virologist works for free in Dhanbad||DHANBAD: As the coal belt grapples with a short-age of healthcare workers and infrastructure amid a spike in coronavirus cases, a young woman virologist stranded in Dhanbad for more than four months has been prov-iding her expertise at the microbiology department at Patliputra Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) with-out charging a penny for her services.. Ritika Thakur, who works at the Indian Institute of Science, Education and Research (IISER) in Kolkata, was home on vacation in Dhanbad when the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25. On April 20, the 28-year old daughter of a Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) employee, started working voluntarily at the hospital. She is now a part of a five-member team that tests the swab samples of suspected Covid-19 cases for 12 hours from 9am every day. “PMCH was not recru-iting medical professionals in April. A friend of my father, a doctor, introduced me PMCH principal Dr Shailendra Kumar. Dr U K Ojha, head of the department of medicine, interviewed me and I started working at the hospital,” Ritika, who completed her masters course in clinical virology from Manipal Institute of Clinical Virology in 2017, told TOI. Thakur said it is a challenge for the small team to handle the large numbers of samples coming in from eight districts, including Dhanbad. “A lot of people depend on us and I ensure that I do not make mistakes while testing. This is my way of serving the society and I have not asked for any remuneration for my will work. I will continue working here till the lockdown ends.”  Thakur has made a learning opportunity of the adverse circumstances she is in. “I look at the pandemic as a chance to learn — a lot questions are being asked about the virus due to the apprehensions among the common people and the administrative officials and new lines of diagnosis and treatment are emerging rapidly,” she said. Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh has applauded Thakur’s contribution to the battle against the virus. During a visit to PMCH on Sunday, Singh asked the hospital authorities to give Thakur an honorarium for the days she worked as a token of appreciation. “She has been contributing to our efforts to contain the virus for three months without any remuneration. We acknowledge her passion and dedication,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/locked-down-kol-virologist-works-for-free-in-dhanbad/articleshow/77116339.cms||Praduman Choubey
July 23, 2020||Nashik||Nashik Rd station passengers get luggage sanitisation option||Nashik: Railway passengers boarding trains from the Nashik Road railway station or arriving there can opt to get their luggage sanitised and plastic-wrapped to make sure that the belongings are contagion free. The Railways will allow an agency to put up a sanitisation and luggage wrapping facility at the railway station for passengers willing to pay for the service. The idea was suggested by one of the citizens when the railways had asked for suggestion on innovative ideas.The Railways will allot 240 sqft area for the facility to be set up and the revenue will be shared with the Railways.A person boarding a train can get his luggage sanitised and plastic-wrapped before getting on the train. On the other hand, a person deboarding the train at Nashik Road railway station can also get his/her bags sanitised. The railways has already put up health camps at the station to check people departing and arriving at the Nashik Road station for symptoms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-rd-station-passengers-get-luggage-sanitisation-option/articleshow/77114224.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 23, 2020||Kolkata||Covid-19: Cops, KMC go all out for total lockdown as Kolkata cases spike||KOLKATA: A day before Bengal’s biweekly total lockdown starts on Thursday, Kolkata recorded 692 cases on Wednesday, the highest single-day spike so far. With it, the total Covid cases in Kolkata touched 15,332 since the first case was reported on March 17. On July 1, the city’s Covid count was 6,222. While health experts hoped the renewed restrictions would help check the virus spread to some extent, both police and KMC officials spent Wednesday, finalizing the specific micro responses to the proposed lockdown. “The idea is to keep the virus confined to pockets,” said a joint CP at Lalbazar. Oncologist Diptendra Sarkar said, “This is an alarming situation and it was waiting to happen. We are approaching the peak now, and numbers will keep going up. It points at the fact that wider transmission is now happening. It’s good the biweekly lockdown has started and it should help check the transmission to some extent.” The focus will be on Ultadanga-Beliaghata, Jadavpur-Regent Park and Behala, the areas reporting multiple cases. At Bhowanipore, Maniktala and Gariahat-Ballygunge, where cases have been on a rise over the past week, cops and KMC will form joint teams to visit the containment zones and carry out contact tracing. While KMC will disinfect markets, carry out swab tests at mobile clinics and collect health data from the worst-affected neighbours, police are looking to take legal action against anyone defying the lockdown. Specific postings have been arranged at the police station-level from 6am and wreckers kept ready to tow away confiscated vehicles. Two DCPs in each zone will tour markets between 7am and 10pm. Special nakas and pickets will be set up across the city. Police have lodged 105 FIRs and prosecuted 827 people for not wearing masks in past 48 hours. Fifty were arrested for spitting and 505 for violating Disaster Management Act. In south Kolkata, the challenge before civic officials and cops will be to contain the virus spread from Dhakuria-Jodhpur Park to Golf Green-Bijoygarh. The latest data shows the spread in Ballygunge, Gariahat, Dover Lane and Garcha might be connected to Dhakuria pockets. Govindapur Lane in Jodhpur Park was on Tuesday announced a containment zone. Experts fear if the virus is allowed to travel 500m to reach Anwar Shah Road, it might again spread to Golf Green-Bijoygargh-Azadgarh, where cases could finally be contained. “With markets being shut and no or restricted movement, we can get some crucial time to carry out more tests,” said a KMC borough coordinator. The Covid-combat teams need to use all its resources in Maniktala, which has been showing no sign of improvement. If not contained, the virus will again hit Phoolbagan-Kankurgachi-Beliaghata belt, one of the worst areas in Borough III. The unabated spread might even reach Salt Lake and Lake Town, an official said. “We need to break these two virus chains in south and north or the spread will become unstoppable. We will enforce stricter norms and extend Covid tests to more people,” said a KMC team member. “In specific areas, where contact tracing is not possible, community transmission has been detected. But that does not mean community transmission has happened across Kolkata.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-kmc-go-all-out-for-total-lockdown-as-kol-cases-spike/articleshow/77116354.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 23, 2020||Kochi||Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case: Customs seeks NBW against Faisal Fareed||KOCHI: The Commissionerate of Customs (Preventive), investigating the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling incident, will move a petition, seeking a non-bailable warrant against UAE-based Thrissur native Faisal Fareed, one of the prime suspects in the case. Customs has also intensified its efforts to find the whereabouts of two of Fareed’s Emirates-based associates. It is suspected that a major racket in UAE has been actively sending gold to India illegally. “We are planning to approach the Interpol through channels concerned to issue a red notice against him (Fareed) so that he can be extradited from the UAE. The procedure, as adopted by NIA, to approach the Interpol for a blue notice to collect information about the accused, would be used by the customs to get a red notice issued,” an official said, adding that a similar course of action could be expected against the other links in the UAE. Meanwhile, customs officials said the names coming up during their probe to find out the other racketeers in UAE are the same associated with a Muvattupuzha-based racket, busted a few years ago. The racket had smuggled in around 1,500kg of gold between 2013 and 2015. Jalal A M, a close aide of the alleged mastermind, K T Ramees, who was arrested last week, had links with the Muvattupuzha gang. “The exact names of the persons are still not clear as they go by various aliases. We are hoping that Ramees would reveal more details,” an official said. On Wednesday, customs received permission from the NIA special court here to record the statements of Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair. Sources said the aim is to record statements under Section 108 of the Customs Act so that their arrest could be formally recorded later. Meanwhile, NIA officials pasted an arrest warrant notice on the front walls of Fareed’s house at Moonnupeedika. As per the warrant, Fareed has been charged under sections 16, 17 and 18 of UAPA. One more arrestedCustoms on Wednesday arrested one more financier of the racket in the case. He has been identified as Hamzath Abdusalam of Manjeri, Malappuram. Customs sources said he had invested close to Rs 1 crore in the racket. According to a remand report, he was named by Said Alavi, who was arrested earlier. The man, who had a history of smuggling, years ago, surrendered on his own to the customs. On Wednesday, four accused, Hamjad Ali, Samju T M, Jifsal C V and Mohammed Anwar moved bail pleas at the additional chief judicial magistrate court. Counsels argued that the accused be granted bail as they contributed less than Rs 50 lakh to procure smuggled gold, which as per the Customs Act, was a bailable offence. The court will further hear the bail plea on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/customs-seeks-nbw-against-faisal-fareed/articleshow/77115438.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Delhi||Lok Nayak Hospital restarts Hepatitis C clinic||NEW DELHI: In a major relief for patients of Hepatitis C, the one-of-its-kind model treatment centre for the disease at Delhi government-run Lok Nayak Hospital has restarted operations after being shut since the lockdown began. The medical centre, which provides free viral load testing facility and medicines for Hepatitis C — a viral infection that causes inflammation of liver — was started a year ago but new registrations had to be closed and existing patients were being provided medicines at their homes since mid-March. “We have been told to restart the centre by the government and we will be taking new cases now,” Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak, said. “Extreme precautions are being taken so that Hepatitis C patients don’t get infected with Covid-19. For this, separate rooms, separate clinics and other special arrangements have been made,” he added. Dr Kumar claimed these patients are immunocompromised and the hospital is taking all precautions to ensure they don’t get exposed to the novel coronavirus. Since OPD services were closed and the hospital was turned in a Covid-only facility, all new registrations at the model treatment centre had to be closed. “However, we have been regularly providing medicines to old patients at their homes,” the medical director explained. “Though patients living in the capital got their medicines, those living in other states like Uttar Pradesh had been facing problems,” he added. Apart from Lok Nayak, treatment facilities for Hepatitis C are available at AIIMS and Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital. However, since OPD facilities were closed during the lockdown at all hospitals, patients began suffering. On Tuesday, a protest was held outside the Delhi Secretariat by an organisation called Delhi Network of Positive People (DNP+), demanding registering of new patients at the centre for viral hepatitis patients at Lok Nayak. “We have been demanding restarting of Hepatitis C treatment as there has been no treatment for the last six months,” said Denzil Basil, project coordinator at DNP+. He claimed that since new registrations were not being made, a number of people died to unavailability of treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lok-nayak-restarts-hepatitis-c-clinic/articleshow/77136306.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 23, 2020||Vadodara||Elections for GCMMF’s chief, vice-chairman today||VADODARA: Elections for the top posts of country’s largest co-operative – the Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation (GCMMF) – will be held on Thursday. The polls for the post of chairman and vice-chairman of GCMMF, the milk federation that markets country’s largest food brand Amul, are being held after a gap of two and a half years as the tenure of the current chairman, Ramsinh Parmar and vice-chairman Jetha Bharwad, is getting over. It is worth knowing that GCMMF follows a unique election pattern. Theoretically, heads of each milk unions of Gujarat, which are member unions of GCMMF, elect their chairman. A total of 18 milk unions of Gujarat are member unions of the federation. Interestingly, in eventuality of an election, their votes are calculated based on the business that the dairies transact with the federation during the financial year. But in practice, since the exit of late Dr Verghese Kurien, who stepped down as founder chairman in 2006, it is party politics that has played a key role in choice of chairman. In the last decade, BJP has gained virtual control of all the major milk unions of Gujarat. So, all eyes in the dairy sector are focused on the decision that the BJP top brass will take. In other words, it will be a selection made by the party leadership that will be declared as a unanimous decision taken by the board members. In January 2018, Amul Dairy’s chairman Ramsinh Parmar, who had joined BJP just a year ago, was elected unanimously as chairman of GCMMF. Parmar was the senior-most and seasoned amongst all the 18 heads of milk unions but till he parted ways from Congress and joined the saffron fold, he never got elected as chairman of federation. Like 2018, Banas Dairy’s chairman and former minister of state for health and family welfare Shankar Chaudhary is said to be another front-runner for the chairman’s post. But the decision of repeating Parmar or replacing him with Chaudhary or selecting any new face depends on the equations between the co-operative leaders and the party leadership. In 2018, Jetha Bharwad, the BJP MLA from Shehra and chairman of Panchmahal-based Panchamrut Dairy had retained the post of vice-chairman of GCMMF. Bharwad had become GCMMF’s first vice-chairman as part of compromise formula in December 2015 when Gujarat’s dairy sector was split into two camps. But a compromise was struck with the intervention of state leadership. The special post was created for the first time in the history of the 1973 set up federation by bringing a change in its by-laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/elections-for-gcmmfs-chief-vice-chairman-today/articleshow/77115375.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Bengaluru||City poetry festivals to bring varied global voices together||BENGALURU: Starting Thursday, Bengaluru will host the four-day Glass House Poetry Festival. Organised by Art Mantram, it brings together some of the world’s best loved poets. The online event has been curated by Yumna Hari Singh along with Rochelle Potkar, Prateeti Punja Balal, Somrita Urni Ganguly, Aditi Angiras and Chandramohan S. Noted Kannada litterateur Chandrashekhara Kambara will give the keynote address on Thursday. Yumna says, “We have two sessions on black poetry: African American Poetry features Black Arts Movement leader Sonia Sanchez with black rights activist and professor John H Bracey, and Black (AF) features award-winning young voices from the community. The session Wounded Republic will see Dalit poets MB Manoj, Ramesh Karthick Nayak and Yazhan Athi. Also scheduled is a reading of John Keats on account of his bicentenary by Keats’ scholar and professor Nicholas Roe.” Eminent British poet Ruth Padel will conduct a session on Beethoven Variations with pianist Karl Lutchmeyer. “The festival has a mix of live sessions and recordings, so our main job will be to shepherd our virtual audiences to the different sessions through the day,” says Yumna. Registration is free and live sessions can be viewed on the website, artmantram.org.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/city-poetry-festivals-to-bring-varied-global-voices-together/articleshow/77115967.cms||Mahalakshmi P
July 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||As testing increases, capital dist pays a bittersweet price||Thiruvananthapuram: The capital tested more samples in the first two weeks of July than it did in the previous four months enabling authorities to identify around 20 clusters and unearth 10 times the total number of cases it had till June-end. While the spurt in cases would have earned the district the dubious title of Covid capital of Kerala, the step to take the virus head on with an all-out testing and cluster containment strategy may be a model for other districts as well, according to infectious disease specialists. Although public wrath over the extended lockdown and the enormous strain in setting up first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) have been bitter side effects, the impact of the Thiruvananthapuram strategy has been such that nearly 2,500 cases, mostly indigenous cases and those without links, could be detected and isolated in the district where 100 city wards and the entire coastal area have been locked down. Data available with the health department shows that till July 7, the district conducted 24,568 tests, while over the next 11 days it carried out another 23,112 tests. The classic strategy of detecting more cases with more testing was amply demonstrated in the district during this period. The daily positivity rate has ranged from 5.22% to 14.66%. On days of more tests, the rate was on the higher side. On July 14, the district carried out 2,721 tests and the positivity rate was 10.77%, while on July 16, it tested 2,633 with positivity coming in at 14.66%. It crossed 10% twice during two weeks in the district. Authorities could very well have adopted the wait-and-watch approach given the mammoth requirement of treatment facilities a sudden spike in cases would entail. A disorganized supply chain was another worry. Still, soon after two-three cases began to be confirmed from Poonthura and the contact list seemed threateningly long in a closely knit community, mass testing camps began in three centres at Poonthura. Although there was a slight delay, similar steps were initiated in Pulluvila and neighbouring coastal areas and the pool of positive results was enough for the district to confirm community spread and bring an entire belt under lockdown. “Unlike in other parts of Kerala, a large number of cases did not have links in the district and it was one factor which prompted aggressive testing here. This is the only plausible strategy we have got,’‘ an infectious disease specialist said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/as-testing-increases-capital-dist-pays-a-bittersweet-price/articleshow/77115441.cms||Aswin J Kumar
July 23, 2020||Jaipur||Personal staff of ministers sacked put on APO||Jaipur: The state government on Wednesday put on awaiting posting orders (APO) the personal staff of three ministers — Sachin Pilot, Ramesh Meena and Vishvendra Singh — sacked following charges of conspiring to bring down the government.The officials are Rajendra Pareek, personal secretary, and Mahendra Prasad Saini, section officer of former tourism and devasthan minister, Dinesh Kumar Sharma and Surendra Kumar Sharma, section officer at food and civil supplies department, Rajendra Singh Shekhawat, section officer at the office of former deputy chief minister, PWD, rural development and panchayati raj, science and technology. The order issued by the DoP said they will report at the personnel department till their new posting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/personal-staff-of-ministers-sacked-put-on-apo/articleshow/77116935.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Jaipur||Clip row: MLAs yet to reply to ACB notices||JAIPUR: MLAs Bhanwarlal Sharma and Vishwendra Singh are yet to respond to ACB notices to record their statements in connection with the audio clips in which the duo were allegedly heard discussing horse-trading of MLAs. The deadline of the notices, which were issued on Monday, ends on Thursday. In case they fail to respond, the ACB will send them reminders. Meanwhile, Sanjay Jain, who was arrested in the same case by SOG, was produced in court on Wednesday for extension of his remand and was sent to police custody till July 24. “The MLAs are yet to respond to the notices served to them at their residences. According to the subpoenas they were to record their statements within three days so they have time till Thursday. In case they do not give their statements till then, we send reminders to them,” said a senior official of ACB. ACB had sent notices to Sharma and Singh following the FIR lodged by Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi claiming that the accused were in cahoots with others to topple the state government. Joshi had provided two audio recordings to the agency in which the politicians were apparently heard talking about horse-trading of MLAs. Jain who was arrested on Saturday was sent to extended police remand and the hearing for collecting his voice samples is also scheduled for July 24. Based on his interrogation, SOG had also sent a summon to Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to record his statement though he also yet to respond to the same. Since the arrests started on July 11 in the perceived attempts of horse-trading of MLAs, SOG has sent notices to 17 political leaders though none have responded. The team which had gone to Delhi and Manesar has been unable to contact Sharma despite Rajasthan DGP writing to top cops of Haryana as well as Delhi to provide assistance in the investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mlas-yet-to-respond-to-acb-notices/articleshow/77116931.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: 30 missing after testing +ve, cops out to trace, book them||VARANASI: In spite of the surge in Covid cases in the district threatening to turn into a major health crisis, people seem unwilling to follow norms as around 30 persons have gone missing after being tested positive for coronavirus infection and now police have been asked to trace them. Officials of the health department and local administration were unable to trace 30 persons whose Covid test reports came positive. Acting irresponsible, most of the missing patients had provided wrong addresses while some switched off their phones. Taking serious note, the chief medical officer Dr V B Singh gave a list of the 30 missing patients to police for tracing them. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said health teams collect personal details of people at the time of collecting samples, but found some had deliberately given wrong details. “Legal action would be initiated against these people,” he said. In the last one week, officials could not trace 30 people who tested Covid-19 positive to ensure their hospitalisation. CMO Dr Singh said, “The problem of not being able to trace patients who tested positive has surfaced in the last week. Our teams failed to trace 30 persons whose test reports came positive. So, we prepared their list and handed it over to police officials for tracing them at the earliest.” SSP Amit Pathak said teams of local police stations have been directed to trace the missing patients. “We will lodge FIRs against the persons, who gave wrong address or number and are now putting others at risk,” he added. DM Sharma said, “Difficulty in tracing patients had surfaced in the district in March but as the number of positive cases were low then health teams succeeded in tracing them. Gradually people understood the gravity of the situation and gave correct information and the employees were also alert.” “Now, as cases are increasing, tracking patients for hospitalisation is proving to be a problem. It is a serious issue. Strict action would be initiated against those who had given incorrect address or contact number and they would be booked under Epidemic Diseases Act,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/30-missing-after-testing-ve-cops-out-to-trace-book-them/articleshow/77116944.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Trichy||BJP’s S K Vedarathinam is back in DMK||NAGAPATTINAM: S K Vedarathinam, who has been with BJP since 2015, re-joined DMK at an event in Vedaranyam on Wednesday along with his supporters. Party president MK Stalin welcomed them through video conferencing from Chennai. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had participated in a rally at Vedaranyam to campaign for Vedarathinam who contested for BJP from the assembly constituency in the 2016 polls, which he lost. When contacted, Vedarathinam told TOI that in Tamil Nadu no party other than DMK was doing good to the people. “It is the need of the hour to unite to send the ruling AIADMK’s anti-people regime packing. Moreover, my supporters are also insisting that I must join our party,” he added. S K Vedarathinam was elected to the assembly as a DMK candidate from Vedaranyam constituency for three consecutive elections in 1996, 2001 and 2006. He was denied ticket to contest for the fourth time in 2011. As the ticket was allotted to DMK's ally PMK, he contested as an independent candidate. As AIADMK secured the seat, he was shown the door by DMK.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bjps-vedarathinam-is-back-in-dmk/articleshow/77116934.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Hubballi||Police arrest six camel smugglers, rescue 8 animals||KALABURAGI: Police on Wednesday arrested six alleged bovine smugglers while rescuing eight camels that were brought to the district ahead of Bakrid festival. The accused — hailing from Madhya Pradesh — had brought the camels worth Rs 4 lakh to Kalaburagi to make a quick buck by selling them on Bakrid that falls on July 31. The accused are Manoj Sindhe, Banesh Sitole, Manoj Jhadav, Nitesh Sindhe, Govind Sindhe and Rajesh Sindhe. All are residents of Senadava village in Badavane district of Madhya Pradesh. Tsransportation of camels without required documents is an offence according to a law enacted by Rajasthan government. It also prohibits people from exporting them, killing them or even migrating them temporarily. The accused said they buy camels from Rajasthan and bring them to Kalaburagi and Telangana to sell them during festival season, said police. Each camel was being sold for Rs 50,000, they added. The rescued camels will be sent back to Rajasthan and the Jain community in Kalaburagi will bear the expenses for the same, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/police-arrest-six-camel-smugglers-rescue-8-animals/articleshow/77115267.cms||Mouneshwar Sonnad
July 23, 2020||Bengaluru||BS Yediyurappa gets his way as picks nominated to council||BENGALURU: Days after the party leadership rejected his choices for the legislative council, chief minister BS Yediyurappa seems to have finally had his way, if the five names nominated by the governor on Wednesday are an indication. Former ministers AH Vishwanath and CP Yogeshwar, and BJP women’s wing president Bharathi Shetty — all Yediyurappa’s picks — were nominated to the upper house by governor Vajubhai Vala after a brief meeting with the CM. The other two are Talwar Sabanna, an economics professor at Rani Chennamma University, Belagavi, and Shantharama Budna Siddi, an activist from Uttara Kannada working for tribal welfare. As per party sources, the nomination of Yogeshwar, an actor-turned-politician, came as a surprise since Yediyurappa had not recommended his name in his first list but was reportedly forced to include it following a diktat from the party brass. Yogeshwar has been rewarded for his role in managing rebel MLAs, which led to fall of the Congress-JD (S) coalition. Sources said he had fallen out with Yediyurappa of late but managed to get in with the backing of a top BJP leader in Delhi. Vishwanath’s nomination has come as a big relief for Yediyurappa since he was under intense pressure from not only the ex-MLA but also other ministers, who had defected from Congress and JD(S). Yediyurappa had recommended the names of MTB Nagaraj, R Shankar and Vishwanath in June, when polls to seven council seats were held. However, the party had rejected Vishwanath’s name since he had unsuccessfully contested last year’s bypolls. The fear that Vishwanath will not keep quiet if denied the nomination worked in his favour, said a senior BJP functionary. The former MLA had already hinted he would write a book on Operation Lotus, detailing the stay of 16 Congress-JD(S) MLAs in Mumbai. “I knew my sacrifice would be rewarded. I thank the CM for having kept his word,” said Vishwanath. The party leadership’s rejection of the state unit’s choices for two Rajya Sabha seats in June had only given credence to talks of Yediyurappa’s waning influence at the Delhi level. With the nomination of Vishwanath, 15 of the 17 turncoats have returned as legislators. 2 SURPRISE CANDIDATES In tune with the party’s newfound policy, the BJP brass sprang a surprise by nominating Sabanna and Siddi. Edu crusader who dons prof’s hat From a small village called Bhankur in Kalaburagi district, Talawar Sabanna is head of department of economics at RCU, Belagavi. He has been teaching economics for 23 years and is known for his work among the SC/ST and backward communities, the poor and women. He has been spreading awareness on education and has brought many to the mainstream. On his nomination, Sabanna said: “I could not believe it for a moment. I thank BJP leaders for recognising my work. I will use this opportunity for the betterment of society.” First Siddi member in council Shantharama Budna Siddi is the first member from the backward Siddi tribe to enter the legislative council. Shantharama, 55, has been working for the uplift of various tribal communities, including Siddi, Gowli and Kunabis, in the deep forests of Yellapur and Haliyal taluks of Uttara Kannada. He’s the first graduate from his community, which is believed to have origins in east Africa. He’s Vanavasi Kalyan Ashram’s state secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cm-gets-his-way-as-picks-nominated-to-council/articleshow/77115852.cms||Anil Gejji
July 23, 2020||Kochi||Class XI online classes to begin soon in Kochi||KOCHI: As the Class X results are out, CBSE schools in the city have sped up the admission procedures to start classes for Class XI students at the earliest so as to avoid loss of working days. All procedures, including interview and orientation sessions, are conducted online. Most of the schools have already chosen their existing students for admission even before the results and students from other schools are now being selected through interviews. While most schools will start classes by the next week through online, a few schools have already completed the procedures and started the classes. As the Covid-19 health protocols are in effect, schools are not asking students to be present for the admission process. Even parents’ presence is not required unless it is an exceptional case. Applications are submitted online along with Class X results and principal will have a video interaction with the student. The time table and study material too are shared online. "Classes need to be started at the earliest as nearly two months have already passed due to the pandemic. Even though 30% portions have been reduced by the CBSE for exams, it will be tight academic schedule this year. We will start classes by the end of this week. We did not conduct any video interviews but have asked students to fill in a questionnaire while submitting application in order to know their extra-curricular activities. Parents have to come to the school once to sign the application form. As we are not seeing the students personally, we have asked them to send their full-size photos too instead of passport-sized ones," said an official of Toc-H Public School. All the seven schools under Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan Kochi Kendra are among the schools that have already started classes. The online classes started on Friday and Saturdays are also working. "Online sessions are held from 8.30am to 12.30pm. The morning prayer, pledge, news reading etc., which are part of the school’s routine, are now conducted online. Teachers are taking class from home via Google Meet and they don’t have to come to schools," said a BVB official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/class-xi-online-classes-to-begin-soon/articleshow/77115450.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Hubballi||Mother, lover murdered by father-son duo||VIJAYAPURA: A married woman and her lover were allegedly murdered by her husband and minor son at Aliabad village in Vijayapura taluk on Wednesday. The deceased are Sunita Talwar, 35, and Amaranath Solapur, 25. It is said that Amaranath had come to visit Sunita on Tuesday night at their farmhouse. Upon learning this, her husband Sabu Benakanalli and minor son rushed to the farmhouse, caught Sunita and Amaranath red-handed and attacked them with an axe, killing them on the spot. Vijayapura SP Anupam Agarwal told TOI that the father and son have been arrested. “It is learnt that Sabu was aware of the affair between his wife and Amaranath. In a meeting organised in the presence of elders in the village, he had told them to stay away from each other. However, the duo continued to meet,” he said. Vijayapura rural inspector Mahantesh Damannavar and other officials visited the spot. Amaranath’s father Kupendra has registered a case. Vijayapura rural police are investigating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/mother-lover-murdered-by-father-son-duo/articleshow/77115580.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghazia​bad forms more teams to intensify contact tracing||GHAZIABAD: Amid rising Covid-19 cases, the district authorities have decided to intensify its contact tracing drive in the district. Officials said that several teams have been deployed at four different levels to ensure that no close contact of Covid patients is left out. They added that six teams have been deployed at the control room in district collectorate and an equal number of teams at the chief medical officer’s office. Also, there are 18 teams, police station-wise, have been formed for the drive. The first two teams will only speak to the patients on calls to gather information. The third team will go out and speak to patients’ acquaintances. Health officials said, with home isolation of asymptomatic cases in place, there will be the fourth set of nine teams that will go to the patients’ homes for inspection. Besides ensuring that the patients fulfil all criteria, these teams will also gather information about close contacts. A senior health official said, all these four teams coordinate and share information about patients who have gone incommunicado or switched-off phones. “Earlier it was haphazard, but things have now been streamlined and the responsibility of each team has been fixed. The objective of these four teams is common and a daily report from all of them are being collected,” the official added. There are, on average, four to five contacts of each patient. Meanwhile, the health officials said sample collection points have been increased in the district for the convenience of residents. Apart from the testing booths at IMS Engineering College, MMG District Hospital, Indirapuram and Vaishali, people can go to our four CHCs and one PHC for testing. Moreover, three mobile vans have also been pressed into the service. They visit different places daily. According to official data, Ghaziabad has collected 75,517 samples till Tuesday, of which 38,874 have been done using the rapid antigen kit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/gzb-forms-more-teams-to-intensify-contact-tracing/articleshow/77116953.cms||Aditya Dev
July 23, 2020||Surat||700MW reactor at KAPP ready for power production||Surat: The indigenously designed 700MW unit-3 of Kakrapar Atomic Power Project (KAPP-3) at Mandvi taluka in Surat district attained first criticality—controlled self-sustaining nuclear fission chain reaction for the first time—on Wednesday. The KAPP-3 achieving criticality means that it has reached the normal operating condition of a reactor and the plant is now set to generate power.At present, the KAPP has two reactors of 220 MW capacity each. The construction work of the KAPP-4 has already been started at the project site. The unit-3 is touted as the largest indigenously-built unit of pressurised heavy water reactors (PHWRs) in the country.The 700MW reactor, which is a flagship project of Nuclear Power Corporation of India Limited (NPCIL) has been designed by the Indian scientists and technocrats, built and commissioned by Indian engineers and technicians and operated by Indian operator. In his tweet, Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated the nuclear scientist, saying that the indigenous reactor is a shining example of the ‘Make in India’ campaign. Union home minister Amit Shah also tweeted saying, “Big Day in India’s Nuclear history as indigenously designed 700 MW Kakrapar Atomic Power Plant-3 in Gujarat achieved criticality. Nation salutes our scientists on this stellar achievement.” A spokesperson of NPCIL said, “KAPP-3 is the indigenous single largest reactor in the country to attain the first criticality. “KAPP-3 is the front runner in the series of 16 indigenous 700 MW PHWRs, which have been accorded administrative approval and financial sanction by the government and are at various stages of implementation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/700mw-reactor-at-kapp-ready-for-power-production/articleshow/77115514.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: As testing takes off, capital district pays a bittersweet price||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The capital tested more samples in the first two weeks of July than it did in the previous four months enabling authorities to identify around 20 clusters and unearth 10 times the total number of cases it had till June-end. While the spurt in cases would have earned the district the dubious title of Covid capital of Kerala, the step to take the virus head on with an all-out testing and cluster containment strategy may be a model for other districts as well, according to infectious disease specialists. Although public wrath over the extended lockdown and the enormous strain in setting up first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) have been bitter side effects, the impact of the Thiruvananthapuram strategy has been such that nearly 2,500 cases; mostly indigenous cases and those without links could be detected and isolated in the district where 100 city wards and the entire coastal area have been locked down. Data available with the health department shows that till July 7, the district conducted 24,568 tests, while over the next 11 days it carried out another 23,112 tests. The classic strategy of detecting more cases with more testing was amply demonstrated in the district during this period. The daily positivity rate has ranged from 5.22% to 14.66%. On days of more tests, the rate was on the higher side. On July 14, the district carried out 2,721 tests and the positivity rate was 10.77%, while on July 16, it tested 2,633 with positivity coming in at 14.66%. It crossed 10% twice during two weeks in the district. Authorities could very well have adopted the wait-and-watch approach given the mammoth requirement of treatment facilities a sudden spike in cases would entail. A disorganized supply chain was another worry. Still, soon after two-three cases began to be confirmed from Poonthura and the contact list seemed threateningly long in a closely knit community, mass testing camps began in three centres at Poonthura. Although there was a slight delay, similar steps were initiated in Pulluvila and neighbouring coastal areas and the pool of positive results was enough for the district to confirm community spread and bring an entire belt under lockdown. “Unlike in other parts of Kerala, a large number of cases did not have links in the district and it was one factor which prompted aggressive testing here. This is the only plausible strategy we have got and this may be the future for other districts also because the other option is to let it go and we cannot do that here,’‘ an infectious disease specialist said. While a lockdown is usually a time to ramp up infrastructure, the district had to deal with an unusual phenomenon: simultaneous tracking of clusters and setting up of treatment facilities. “You could say there was laxity in groundwork in anticipation of a surge, however, Thiruvananthapuram is showing more cases could be picked up and treated to protect the rest of the community from transmission. The process is going to be taxing because we have so many clusters here and the exercise has to continue till each cluster peaks and drops. The challenge is how the workforce is going to sustain this wave,” another official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/as-testing-takes-off-capital-dist-pays-a-bittersweet-price/articleshow/77115446.cms||Aswin J Kumar
July 23, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Banks to be shut on all lockdown days||KOLKATA: With the State Level Bankers Committee (SLBC) issuing a notice on Wednesday that banks will remain shut on all lockdown days and the state ordering its closure on all Saturdays for now, salaried people as well as pensioners are likely to face inconvenience while withdrawing money next month. The government has so far announced total lockdown in Bengal on July 23, 25 and 29, while August begins on a weekend, 1st and 2nd being a Saturday and a Sunday. Going by the directives, all banking activities, including salary payment, pension payment and commercial transactions, will not be carried out on July 29, August 1 and August 2. RBI in the city will also reportedly remain shut on lockdown days. SLBC convenor A K Jha, however, told TOI that the currency chest would remain open and it was making all arrangements to keep ATMs replenished. “The first two days next month are on the weekend but we will ensure ATMs run properly,” he said. On July 21, All India Bank Officers’ Confederation and United Forum of Bank Unions had sought clarifications from SLBC on bank norms on lockdown days. “In Lockdown 1.0, banking services were included on the list of exempted service. But in the latest government order, it was not on the list,” they said. Former deputy chief secretary of SBI Staff Association Ashok Mukherjee argued banks did not fall under essential services and so, they should be shut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/banks-to-be-shut-on-all-lockdown-days/articleshow/77116375.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Kolkata||Looking ahead: IIM-C may become Bengal’s first ‘net-zero’ campus with new-age tech||KOLKATA: The Indian Institute of Management Calcutta (IIM-C) is set to become the first ‘net-zero campus’ in Bengal with ‘net zero energy’, ‘net zero discharge’ and ‘net zero waste’. The campus is also going for a massive expansion drive where a new academic block and a hostel to house approximately 1,000 students will be added. CPWD, which is executing the project, has asked architect Hafeez Contractor to prepare the campus master plan and design the new academic block and hostel. A comprehensive exercise was initiated to develop a phased plan to upgrade the residential and academic infrastructure on the Joka campus to international standards with the involvement of numerous stakeholders. Explaining the concept of ‘net-zero campus’, Prabhakar Singh, member of the BoG, IIM-C, said a campus is described as ‘net-zero’ when the building becomes highly energy efficient and fully powered by on-site and/or off-site renewable energy sources. “At Joka, we not only want to be net-zero, but net-positive. By this, we mean to produce more energy than we consume. We have a 135-acre campus and huge resources of water from lakes. We are keen on solar energy plants. Additionally, the lakes can be used as a heat sink and help as cooling towers for air-conditioning plants, thereby reducing air-conditioning heat output. By using variable refrigerant flow (VRF) air-conditioners, we can not only reduce our energy consumption but also save 30% of it,” he said. Singh added the institute will be using advanced yet simple water-saving technology without any heavy cost. “We want to become a net-positive water campus and reduce our requirement from water supply agencies. The water we will generate will be used in washrooms, air-conditioning and horticulture, among others. We will also focus on a sewage treatment plant at Joka. We will get manure from it, which will allow us to produce fuel and electricity, not just on campus but also to help the neighbouring community with energy resources. We want to have green buildings, as well as smart buildings, where technology will make the experience better,” he explained. IIM-C also plans to have dedicated infrastructure with ramp facilities, classrooms with disabled-friendly chairs, disabled-friendly washrooms and hostels with new-age technology. “We have to start thinking of the future. We can have a huge impact on the ecology and the environment. It is our dream to establish IIM-C, Joka, as a state-of-the-art campus of international standards,” Singh said. Director Anju Seth said, “Among our numerous forward-looking steps to build on IIM-C’s strong reputation towards global eminence, I am delighted that we have achieved this milestone as we approach our diamond jubilee.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/looking-ahead-iim-c-may-become-bengals-first-net-zero-campus-with-new-age-tech/articleshow/77116360.cms||Somdatta Basu
July 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan BJP to cash on the absence of Congress MLAs||JAIPUR: With Congress MLAs holed up in a five-star resort for the last 10 days, the state BJP is using it as an opportunity to fill the absence of the elected representatives. The party has directed its workers to help people in all those Congress-ruled seats, theleaders of which are currently holed up in a hotel. Aiming to expose their absence, BJP workers have been directed to provide relief to people, meet officials to ensure that no work is hampered and hold jan sunwais for aam aadmi. “We are a responsible opposition party which has taken the responsibility to not let the people feel the absence of Congress MLAs during this pandemic. It is unfortunate that the entire contingent of Congress MLAs are shamelessly having fun and frolic activities in a five-star hotel. It is mockery of the people who voted them to power,” said state BJP chief Satish Poonia. He said already their party members were working overtime and now they have the additional responsibility of filling the vacuum left by the absence of these MLSs. “The kind of statements coming out from CM Ashok Gehlot and PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra hints that the MLAs will continue to stay put in the hotel until their internal problems are resolved. It means that even if the issue continues for a month, they will not step out of the hotel,” Poonia said. BJP candidates who lost to Congress candidates, district presidents and elected pradhans and sarpanchs have been assigned the task of building constant pressure on the administration for work and dialogue with people. Former BJP state president Arun Chaturvedi, who had lost to transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas from Civil Lines constituency, said the MLA has no contact with people who voted him. “BJP cannot leave the people at the mercy of these MLAs. My team has been constantly working and asked people to contact us in case of any help,” said Chaturvedi. BJP spokesperson Laxmikant Bhardwaj is building his team for reaching out to people in Aadarsh Nagar and Kishenpole constituencies. He said both the MLAs, Rafiq Khan and Amin Kagzi, are in the team hosting the Congress MLAs in Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-to-cash-on-the-absence-of-congress-mlas/articleshow/77116952.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Five patients leave Hindu Rao against medical advice in 21 days||NEW DELHI: A month after Hindu Rao Hospital was declared a Covid facility, five LAMA (leave against medical advice) cases, where the patients left the facility, have been reported. A 21-day report between June 27 and July 18 stated that the hospital, which has provision for 304 beds, saw 39 admissions to the Covid ward. Of these, 10 patients were discharged after recovery, three were reported dead and five left the hospital before recovery. “LAMA is used to describe cases where patients discharge themselves from the hospital against recommendation of the attending physician. In highly infectious diseases like Covid, LAMA cases should be completely avoided,”said a doctor at the hospital. Another doctor claimed that due to lack of medical infrastructure and poor image of the hospital, the occupancy has remained low and many patients left because of that. Jai Prakash, mayor, North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said, “It was a big feat to set up the facility despite acute fund crunch. I will look into the reason why people have left in the middle of the treatment.” He added that the reason behind low occupancy was also the kind of treatment the patients received at Delhi government hospitals. “Some are scared to get admitted to the government hospitals. This could be one of the reasons,” he added. TOI tried contacting the senior officials of the civic body to understand the reasons behind patients leaving midway, but received no response. Recently, due to low occupancy, Hindu Rao had decided to redistribute its underutilised healthcare workers to non-Covid facilities. According to the plan, the hospital would keep a back-up staff for 100 beds. The remaining would be moved to Kasturba, Rajan Babu hospitals and other civic healthcare units, a municipal corporation official said. The department heads were also asked to make a roaster for 200 beds for immediate activation when required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/five-patients-leave-hindu-rao-against-medical-advice-in-21-days/articleshow/77116384.cms||Paras Singh
July 23, 2020||Kochi||Gold smuggling case: Many accused surrendered to customs||KOCHI: Be it the peculiar modus operandi or the political storm it triggered, the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case has features which differentiate it from other cases pertaining to the illegal shipping in of the yellow metal. Customs sleuths are now seeing a similar trend in the probe into the case as well, as an unprecedented number of people associated with the smuggling are coming forward on their own promising to divulge details about the racket. It has been just over two weeks since customs arrested the first accused in the case and already 14 persons have landed in its net. This is excluding Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair who were arrested by NIA. “Our officials have conducted multiple raids across the state to get to the accused. But we are also receiving calls every day, by someone or the other who claims to have associations with racket. They say that they are willing to divulge the details they know,” said an officer, adding that they are looking into the exact reason that motivates these people to approach the agency. He said the trend is unusual as the officers usually have to smoke them out. An officer recounted an anecdote when sleuths went to the house of a financier in Malappuram. “The suspect was from a rich family and they had an electronic gate. Surprisingly, it was left open for us. It was almost as if he was expecting us,” he said. Jalal A M who has been accused of financing the racket and KT Ramees, the mastermind, are history-sheeters and were obviously difficult for the customs to book. While Ramees had to be picked up by the customs, Jalal surrendered. Sources are associating NIA’s entry into the investigation as a reason for the sudden willingness of the suspects to turn up on their own. It has to be checked whether they are trying to protect others. The decision by the NIA to probe into the terror links could be a reason for the suspects to behave so, said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/many-accused-surrendered-to-customs/articleshow/77115523.cms||Disney Tom
July 23, 2020||Goa||Cyber cell warns of account hacking scam||Panaji: Cyber crime cell of Goa police on Wednesday warned the citizens about an account hacking scam by fraudsters using call forward facility. “Call forwarding facility enables user to transfer or forward the calls when the customer is busy or the phone is switched off or out of network coverage area. Customers can enable this facility by dialing numbers provided by telecom service provider. However, this service is being misused by some fraudsters,” the advisory stated. The modus operandi, it states, involves the fraudster calling the victim impersonating as customer care executive of any bank or service provider. “Victim is then convinced to call numbers such as **21*07829700191#. Once the victim dials the number, the calls are forwarded to fraudster’s mobile number. Once call is forwarded, fraudster initiates the forgot password or reset or registration, etc. and requests OTP. Since call on victim’s phone is diverted, fraudster gets access to OTP and thus planned fraud is conducted,” the cyber crime cell said. This modus operandi can also be used to reset social media account password or register on banking sites, etc, SP Shobhit Saxena said. “The general public is advised to never dial any number like **21*, *401* if an unknown person asks to do so. Always cross verify such numbers from your service providers, before dialing,” the cyber crime cell said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cyber-cell-warns-of-account-hacking-scam/articleshow/77117016.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Varanasi||97 new Covid-19 cases, 2 deaths reported in Kashi||VARANASI: The number of Covid-19 cases continued to rise in Varanasi and adjoining districts on Wednesday. Altogether 97 new cases were reported in Varanasi, 11 in Jaunpur, 17 in Sonbhadra and 77 in Ballia. Providing details of the lab test reports received, district magistrate Varanasi Kaushal Raj Sharma said that 97 persons had been tested positive in the district after which its Covid-19 tally reached has 1,576. Two patients including a 46-year-old man of Pandeypur and 49-year-old man of Kamaksha area died during the course of treatment after which toll in Varanasi touched the mark of 36, he added. With the discharge of 65 patients from different Covid-19 facilities, the number of cured patients so far is 690, he said adding, 850 active cases are under treatment. In Jaunpur, DM DK Singh confirmed with the release of lab test reports in afternoon, 111 new positive cases came to light in the district. Till Tuesday night, Jaunpur had tally of Covid-19 cases reached 1,099 of which 369 are in active category and being treated at different hospitals in the district as well as Prayagraj, Varanasi, Lucknow and Azamgarh. So far, 16 Covid-19 deaths have taken place while 714 have been cured. In Ballia, DM Hari Pratap Shahi said, “Among 1,002 lab test reports received in the district on Wednesday afternoon, 77 persons were tested Covid-19 positive. With it, the total tally of positive cases so far has reached the mark of 852. Of them, 492 have been cured while nine have died. Total 326 active cases are being treated in different hospitals.” Rise in figures also continued in Sonbhadra. Chief medical officer Sonbhadra Dr SK Upadhyaya said 17 more persons were found positive in the district after which its total tally touched the mark of 353. Among them, 196 have been cured while two died do far, he said adding, 155 are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/97-new-covid-19-cases-2-deaths-reported-in-kashi/articleshow/77116961.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
July 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan BJP ex-chief admits son’s brief link with Sanjay Jain||JAIPUR: Former BJP state president Ashok Parnami has denied any association with middleman Sanjay Jain who was arrested by the SOG for attempting to topple the Congress government. Parnami told TOI that his son Uday formed the company with Jain in June 2016 and withdrew from it in January 2017. “According to my son, the company never had any financial transaction. My son has made it clear that since then he had no contact with him,” said Parnami. Sources said SOG had questioned Jain on his alleged business deals with Parnami’s son also tried to establish the link of Jain with former CM Vasundhara Raje. Congress MLA from Udaipurwati Rajendra Singh Gudha, who was with the BSP earlier, had claimed that Jain had offered him a meeting with Raje eight months ago which was declined by him. “I am sticking to my statement that Jain came to home with a proposal to meet Raje on behalf of all six MLAs who were part of BSP,” said Guda, whose statement is being used by the Congress to corner the BJP. Since the name of Jain surfaced in the audio tape leak case with other two accused, Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and Congress MLA of Sachin Pilot camp Bhanwar Lal Sharma, both the parties—Congress and the BJP are digging the history of Jain. Randeep Singh Surjewala, Congress national spokesperson said, “Jain is a BJP leader and his connection with the party should be probed.” Jain’s pictures with Raje has been doing rounds on social media. Meanwhile, the BJP is claiming that Jain’s father and he has held several positions in Bikaner district Congress. State BJP president Satish Poonia in a press conference said Jain is a Congressman fielded by chief minister Gehlot to save his government. “Jain, whose name appeared in the audiotapes, was a block president of Congress in Lunkaransar in Bikaner,” said Poonia. Jain’s political affiliation will certainly affect the audiotape case. A BJP leader from Bikaner, Surendra Singh Shekhawat, who claimed to know Jain as they belong to the same city, claimed that Jain and family have been associated with Congress for decades.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/parnami-accepts-brief-association-of-his-son-with-sanjay-jain/articleshow/77116972.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Jaipur||Sickening efforts being made to topple elected govts, Gehlot writes to Modi||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying he wanted to draw his attention to the “sickening efforts (kutsit prayason)” being made at toppling the country’s elected governments through horse-trading of legislators going against the democratic ethics.Mentioning that ‘ill efforts’ were being made at destabilising Rajasthan’s elected government during the pandemic when saving lives was top priority, Gehlot wrote, “Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, other BJP leaders and some over-ambitious leaders from our party (Congress) too are involved in this act.”He has added, “One of them is a senior leader like Bhanwar Lal Sharma (Congress MLA in Sachin Pilot camp) who had tried to topple the government of late Bhairon Singh Shekhawat (of BJP) also through sale-purchase of legislators. Money had reached the MLAs. As state president of the main opposition party Congress, I had personally met the then Governor Bali Ram Bhagat and PM PV Narasimha Rao and opposed it saying that toppling an elected government like this by sale-purchase of MLAs was against the democratic principles. Such conspiracies are a betrayal with the common man.”The CM has written that for past some time efforts were being made to destabilise democratically elected state governments while ignoring public interest and sentiments behind the anti-defection law brought by late PM Rajiv Gandhi in 1985 and the amendments made to it by the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government. “This is a huge insult to public mandate and an open violation of constitutional values. The events in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh are an example of it,” Gehlot has written.“I would always regret that at a time when saving lives and livelihoods of common man were continuing to be the responsibility of centre and state governments, how can the ruling party at the Centre abandon the responsibility of corona management and play a key role in toppling the state government. Similar allegations amid the corona time were made during the toppling of Madhya Pradesh government and your party suffered disgrace across the nation,” Gehlot has said in the letter.“I am not aware how much of all this is in your knowledge or you are being misled. History will never forgive those who become a party to such acts,” Gehlot has written in the letter dated July 19.The CM has concluded the letter saying that in the end democratic traditions and constitutional values would emerge victorious and his government would complete it full term while giving a good governance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sickening-efforts-being-made-to-topple-elected-govts-gehlot-writes-to-modi/articleshow/77116967.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Kochi||Virtual fish markets operate via WhatsApp in Kochi||KOCHI: With markets closed, locals are exploring other ways to sell fish. Most of them have started to orders through WhatsApp and deliver at consumers’ doorsteps. They are mostly selling freshly caught fish from the Kochi backwaters and inland fishermen. Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), which has been working with self-help farmer groups (SHGs), has been hand-holding the Kadapuram freshfish welfare sangham to deliver fresh fish to households. “It works through WhatsApp. Around 9am, the details of available fish with picture and cost will be shared. This goes to nearly 750-1,000 people. During the lockdown period alone, the SHG earned Rs 1.6 lakh by delivering 51kg of fish to nearly 350 households every day,” said KVK project coordinator Shinoj Subramannian. He said that KVK is helping fishers develop an app which will then be linked to the KVK website. “This is aimed to reassure the customer of the fish quality. There are a lot of groups selling fish but we have to just ensure its quality. One of the main challenges of youth getting into this business is that there is already a large network of fishermen and traders in the fisheries marketing sector but not much stress is being given to quality. So we advise newcomers to stress on quality. The SHG had started with making manure from fish waste. Almost 30-40% fish waste is accumulated in the fisheries sector and it is often dumped somewhere in the waters. We trained them to make manure which is being sold in our Farme Shoppe at the CMFRI office. A group of young men have started a Varapuzha fish hub, which sells only freshwater fish. “Two of the partners who are in the Gulf helped develop a website and we have activated a WhatsApp group too. We collect fish from the farmers at Varapuzha, Kadamakudy and nearby places. Though we have just started only a couple of days ago, we have been able to cater to many as we ensure quality. We sell different varieties of pearl spot, anchovies, crab, tilapia, etc.,” said Jilish George, one of the owners. He said that during the initial lockdown days, the catch from his Chinese nets were sold in the neighbourhood because of fear of wastage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/virtual-fish-markets-operate-via-whatsapp/articleshow/77115521.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
July 23, 2020||Ludhiana||4 senior district administration officials declared corona-free, join duty||LUDHIANA: Four senior district administration officials have been fully cured of Covid-19 and will resume their duties soon. This was informed by deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma on Wednesday during his interaction with Ludhiana residents through a Facebook live session. Sharma said additional deputy commissioner, (ADC) general, Amarjit Bains, ADC (Jagraon) Neeru Katyal Gupta, sub-divisional magistrates Sandeep Singh Garha and Mankanwal Singh Chahal have been fully cured. In a bid to connect directly with the Ludhiana residents regarding their queries related to Covid-19 and to educate the masses, the DC held #AskDistrictAdministration interactive Facebook live session today. During the live session, the DC insisted that the people should wear masks, maintain physical distancing and maintain hand hygiene at all cost. He urged the residents not to believe in any rumours on social media and asked them follow official Facebook page and Twitter handle of district public relations office (DPRO) for authentic updates. He clarified that the Sunday lockdown will continue till further orders. He said #AskDistrictAdministration Facebook session will be held at 7pm on every Wednesday and urged the residents to submit their questions on the official Facebook page and Twitter handle of DPRO Ludhiana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/4-senior-district-administration-officials-declared-corona-free-join-duty/articleshow/77116970.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Cops yet to identify murderers of fruit vendor beaten to death||LUDHIANA: A day after Dakha police booked unidentified miscreants for beating a fruit vendor to death and injuring his colleagues, the police are yet to identify the accused. On Monday evening, a group of four to five persons had allegedly attacked Krishan Kumar of Azad Nagar in Mandi Mullanpur at his fruit vend near FCI godown. After he had died, Dakha police had booked unidentified accused under sections 302 (murder), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (unlawful assembly) of IPC. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Dakha Gurbans Singh Bains said they have some clues and the accused will be identified and arrested soon. He added that the deceased was allegedly attacked by some persons about 15 to 20 days ago, when the deceased ran vend at Raikot road, but the family didn’t report the matter to police. The police said the area where the incident occured is ecluded and doesn’t have CCTV. They added that three to four miscreants had come on two motorcycles and they had covered their faces. Police officials said the deceased was killed by miscreants over some old enmity. They added that the family would not have reported the matter to the police even this time if Krishan had not died. According to the police, Ravinder had come to Punjab from Meerut about 15 days ago. They added that he is stable and has been discharged from hospital. Meanwhile, in his complaint, Rohit, the son of the deceased, who works with FCI, said for two to three days, his father had been running the fruit vend at the spot where the crime happened. He added that another person Ravinder also would run a fruit vend next to his vend. The complainant further said on Monday at around 4.30pm he went to give food to his father at the vend and as he was approaching the vend, he saw four to five men hitting his father and Ravinder with iron rods and pipes. The complainant said the accused ran away from the spot when they saw him approach, and he rushed the two injured to hospital in Mullanpur, and from there they were shifted to civil hospital. He added that the doctors there had then referred his father to Rajindra Hospital Patiala, but he died on the way at around 3.30am on Tuesday. Rohit said he didn’t see the persons who attacked his father.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cops-yet-to-identify-murderers-of-fruit-vendor-beaten-to-death/articleshow/77116962.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Jaipur||PM has created ‘Raid Raj’ in country, but we will not be scared: Randeep Surjewala||JAIPUR: The Congress on Wednesday termed the central probe agencies like the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which was conducting searches at the residence of chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s elder brother and other places in Jodhpur, as ‘weapons of intimidation’ in the hands of the BJP-led central government. Congress leader Randeep Surjewala alleged, “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has created a ‘raid raj’ in the country, but we will not be scared. When the Centre’s gimmicks failed to topple the Congress government in Rajasthan, the ED raids have started at the premises of people related to the CM.” Referring to the ED searches against Agrasen Gehlot in Jodhpur and nearby places on Wednesday, Surjewala said, “His fault is just that he is the elder brother of the chief minister. He is not into politics nor has he any concern with politics. The ED is conducting raids under security of the CRPF and the BSF.” The Congress pointed out IT searches and CBI questioning of its party leaders since July 13, a day after former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and his band of 18 MLAs drifted away and claimed that the Gehlot-government was in minority. “IT and ED searches were conducted on Congress leaders Rajiv Arora and Dharmendra Rathore and on the owner of Jaipur’s Fairmont hotel Ratan Sharma on July 13 to intimidate, threaten and supress them. When the BJP government felt that it would not succeed in its conspiracy (to topple the government), it sent the CBI after our MLA Krishna Poonia, who brought laurels to the nation in sports, on July 20 and 21. The CM’s OSD Devaram Saini was questioned by CBI on July 20,” Surjewala said. The senior Congress leader alleged, “When the BJP fails, when its leadership fails and when everything else fails, the IT, ED and CBI, which are the party’s frontal organisations, come into action. But neither Rajasthan’s eight-crore population nor CM Ashok Gehlot nor the Congress MLAs would be scared. Our government will not be destabilised.” Transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas claimed that IT and ED were now preparing to raid ministers in the Rajasthan government. "We know the BJP government at the Centre wants to bring down the Gehlot-government at any cost, be it using money power. BJP is conspiring in a big to insult people’s mandate in Rajasthan," the minister said. Khachariyawas said the way the Centre’s BJP government was behaving, the only thing left is to shoot to the Congress workers and leaders. "One would not be surprised if the government now uses the language of sticks and bullets," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/will-not-be-scared-by-modi-govts-raid-raj-cong/articleshow/77116974.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Ludhiana||MC does nothing to its collapsing buildings, but serve notice to others for same||LUDHIANA: The municipal corporation (MC) workshop at Hambran Road is in such a pitiable condition that whenever it rains, the water starts leaking from roofs. The officials claimed that there is need to dismantle the structure and construct it afresh. Incidentally, two years ago when solar panels were being installed on the roof under smart city mission, the officials must have known the deteriorating condition of the roof. It’s a mystery that the officials chose to remain quiet at that time instead of sorting it out then. Now, the officials claim that the MC workshop structure is very old and cannot be repaired. According to them, the building might even collapse if something is not done quickly. At the workshop, old vehicles of the civic body are dumped as well as vehicles on the road at the moment are being repaired as when needed. Recently, the MC officials raised the demand that the workshop should be pulled down and constructed again for the safety of the employees deputed there. Secretary of MC, J S Sekhon while confirming the condition , said, “The building structure is very weak and employees deputed there have complained about leakage in roof.” He said they have requested mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu to allow new construction of workshop, but he has asked to construct new shed at one side. Regarding solar panels, he had no explanation but said the solar panels will be shifted to new sheds. This is not the only building of the civic body that is crying for attention. Most sub-zonal offices are in similar condition. The roofs and walls have developed cracks. Many buildings in zone C and zonal offices of zone A and C are also in poor condition. But in the absence of funds, the authorities are unable to get even the repair work done. The civic body serves notice to private property owners for demolishing their unsafe structures, but when it comes to check their own buildings, they seem to follow a different sets of rules. The structures can pose threat to not only employees but also visitors who had to go to these offices to sort out their issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-does-nothing-to-its-collapsing-buildings-but-serve-notice-to-others-for-same/articleshow/77116980.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Kolkata||After 4-month delay, mom’s operation now on shutdown day||We had been delaying my mother’s operation for the past two months, hoping to get it done at a safer time. But I could never imagine that the date, July 23, that was finally selected had to coincide on a day, when the city would be in complete lockdown. While the prevailing Covid situation in itself has been a huge challenge, the total lockdown will only mean that my brother and I will have only each other for company at the hospital when my mother undergoes her kidney operation. Moreover, given the situation and the two-day lockdown, we have decided to stay back at the hospital till Sunday. It might come across a bit strange, but it was not an easy decision. My brother and I, along with our mother, had to undergo a Covid test three days before the operation and all three of us will again have to undergo another Covid test before my mother is released from the hospital. We have been advised to steer clear of the OPD and the administration has helped us with the arrangements. After we had approached the doctor, he decided to carry out the operation early in April. But around that time, the outbreak here started and the lockdown was imposed. Our doctor at this private hospital in Salt Lake told us we might have to wait for a few days. As we went for a check-up earlier this month, he told us that we should not push back the surgery any longer as that might turn fatal. When we went for the Covid test three days ago, it was the first time I ventured out of my Garia home as I have been working from home all through. Before bringing my mother to the hospital, I left my wife and son with my in-laws as I did not want them to come here all the way. I have asked all my relatives—several of them volunteered to drop by—not to take a risk by visiting a hospital when the virus has been spreading unabated. My mother has been the pillar of strength for both my brother and I and the doctor has been kind. We have been quite satisfied with the hospital’s efforts in ensuring no one contracts the novel coronavirus there. They have given us several measures to follow in the hospital. The first Covid test at the very beginning was one such step. We have been told that my mother needs to spend four days in the hospital after surgery. With Saturday being another total lockdown, commuting would have been difficult. We discussed with the hospital administration and decided to stay here over the weekend. I am hoping everything will go as planned by the doctor and his team. (Sengupta, a senior IT consultant, spoke to Dwaipayan Ghosh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-4-month-delay-moms-op-now-on-shutdown-day/articleshow/77116386.cms||Abhishek Sengupta
July 23, 2020||Kochi||Book your slot & break the chain||KOCHI: Two youths have developed a web and mobile application that could help one ensure social distancing at shops, banks, hospitals and other establishments. One of the biggest challenges these days is regulating crowd. With the state witnessing steep surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, it has become even more important to ensure that there is no crowding. The application ‘Book My Slot’ has been developed by Kochi-based techie Saji Kurian and Subilal K, an ex-serviceman. The application works to help both institutions and visitors in staying safe provided the other break the chain protocols and use of mask are also followed. “Book my slot app can be downloaded on the phone. A user has to register to avail the facility. Shops, banks, hospitals, salons also have to register to use the service. They can also use the app to link it to their own website which will help the customer look for availability of products,” he said. “While shops love people coming in large numbers, these days they would welcome an organised crowd which will ensure business and safety. Nobody wants a shut down,” said Subilal. This platform is available through https://www.bookmyslots.in website or through the mobile app. “It’s more like a virtual queue. It will help meet all your needs like shopping, banking etc., by fixing prior appointments. One can also easily search a nearby shop and book slots for shopping. This is to help one avoid queues, save time and maintain social distancing,” he said. The app will also aid the administration if a person tests positive. “We can trace the person’s route with time and date,” he added. “Moreover, these days only limited people can be called for occasions like wedding. If a person plans an event, he/she can slot the guest timing and their exit and ensure that more people can participate without crowding,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/book-your-slot-break-the-chain/articleshow/77115533.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
July 23, 2020||Nashik||One more MLA from region tests Covid +ve||Nashik: One more elected representative from the region has tested positive for Covid-19 infection. So far, three elected representatives have tested positive for the infection. Senior health officials said two of them were asymptomatic and have already recovered. The elected representative had voluntarily undergone Covid-19 test after experiencing some uneasiness. Though his test report came back positive, those of his family members are negative. The MLA has been placed in home isolation and his condition is stable. Earlier, one MLA had been to Mumbai to attend the funeral of a relative. On return, the MLA and relatives tested positive and were treated. Similarly another elected representative tested positive on Sunday and has placed in home isolation as he is showing minor symptoms only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/one-more-mla-from-region-tests-covid-ve/articleshow/77114243.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Delhi||10% of India’s bio-medical waste in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Despite being only the 19th largest Indian state or Union territory in terms of population, Delhi accounts for 10% of the 101 tonne of Covid-19 biomedical waste generated in the country each day and is the third largest generator of such waste after the bigger states of Maharashtra and Gujarat. According to the report filed by Central Pollution Control Board in the National Green Tribunal, there is worry also about the improper segregation of waste at Covid hospitals, isolation centres and quarantine homes. Delhi currently produces 11.1 tonnes of Covid waste every day, just above Tamil Nadu (10.4 tonne) and Madhya Pradesh (7.5 tonne). On Tuesday, there were 15,288 active coronavirus cases in the city, of which 3,517 were being treated in hospitals, 2,136 at Covid care centres, 160 in health centres, and 8,126 in home isolation. Before the pandemic, a hospital typically generated 500 grams of biomedical waste per bed per day. That figure has now risen to 2.5-4.5 kg. The CPCB report recommends segregation of trash because mixing general municipal garbage with biomedical waste creates an unwanted burden on the incinerators designed only to handle biohazardous waste. The report adds, “It is observed that non-segregation of waste also results in incineration of contaminated plastics, which should have been collected in the red bag for sterilisation and recycling.” The city’s two biowaste treatment plants — in west Delhi’s Lilothi and on GT Karnal Road near Jahangirpuri — can together process 63 tonnes of biomedical waste each day, a part of which is Covid waste. Some states, including Delhi, which is using up 70% of its Covid waste capacity at the moment, have been advised by CPCB to identify more stand-by waste processing management facilities such as “common hazardous waste incinerators, industrial captive incinerators and captive disposal facilities. Use of deep-burial pits may be considered as a last option.” Waste management experts say the Covid pandemic has exposed the flaws in Delhi's garbage management system, though a South Delhi Municipal Corporation official claimed the manpower deployed in the parallel Covid waste collection system had been more than doubled to cope with the current load. Experts suggest that instead of focusing on increasing incineration capacity, the capital should reduce garbage generation and ensure segregation. Chitra Mukherjee, head of operations at Chintan Environmental Research and Action Group, said, “The solid waste management rules of 2016 have provisions of penalties for failure to segregate waste, yet nothing has been done. Can the municipal corporations tell us the name of one person they have fined? Covid has exposed this failure.” Mukherjee said that the goal should be to reduce waste generation. “How many more incinerators can we install? It is the time to return to the basics of waste management by reducing garbage generation. Medical professionals should use masks and PPE kits made of plastic components, but citizens must be encouraged to use washable cloth masks,” she said. Swati Sambyal, a solid waste management expert, pointed out that garbage from homes under quarantine and isolation centres, if not segregated, would not only overburden the treatment facilities, but also pose a risk to sanitation workers. “There are two things that need to be sorted out,” she said. “First, there has to be appropriate channelisation of Covid waste. The biomedical waste picked up from quarantine houses must be kept separate from the regular municipal system. Secondly, creating awareness is important. If quarantine households ensure only biomedical waste is disposed of in yellow bags, the burden on biomedical incinerators will reduce. Awareness about the benefits of segregation and civil society and RWAs must play an important role in this.” Watch Delhi accounts for 10% of India's Covid-19 biomedical waste||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/10-of-indias-bio-med-waste-in-delhi/articleshow/77116405.cms||Paras Singh
July 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Customs sleuths search Jayaghosh’s houses||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The customs sleuths conducted searches at the residences of civil police officer Jayaghosh whose association with the gold smugglers is also under the radar of the agencies. Two teams of customs sleuths conducted search at the residences of Jayaghosh at Akkulam and Vattiyoorkkavu in the capital on Wednesday. In the searches that went on for almost an hour, the customs sleuths are learnt to have confiscated documents of bank accounts of Jayaghosh. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) sleuths had met him and questioned him at the hospital where he was admitted after he attempted to commit suicide. The police have already suspended Jayaghosh from service and a departmental probe has been initiated against him, for violation of service rules. The authorities are examining if Jayaghosh was also an accomplice in the gold smuggling racket, and the suicide attempt was part of a ploy to pretend innocent. Jayaghosh, who had been reported missing last Thursday, was located in an isolated area near his residence the next day. He was found with veins of his hand cut, when some locals who passed through the area located him by noon on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/customs-sleuths-search-jayaghoshs-houses/articleshow/77115538.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Noida||Noida adds 107 cases to Covid tally||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: Gautam Budh Nagar reported 107 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. According to the state report, 122 people have been discharged from hospitals in the past 24 hours. There are 962 active cases now and the district has seen 40 deaths. With 3,396 recoveries, the district has the highest number of discharged patients in the state, followed by Ghaziabad that has 2,843 recoveries. The total number of cases in the district stands at 4,398. The district now has a recovery rate of 77.2% and case fatality rate of 0.9%. In Ghaziabad, 80 fresh cases were added to the tally on Wednesday, taking the number to 4,206 in the district. So far, 2,843 people have recovered and have been discharged. The district has recorded 64 deaths. There are 1,299 active cases now. On Wednesday, 63 patients admitted to various hospitals in the district were alone declared infection-free and discharged from hospitals. According to health officials, ESIC Hospital at Rajendra Nagar is being converted into an L-2 facilty. Currently, patients with mild symptoms are admitted to the 76-bed facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noida-adds-107-cases-to-covid-tally/articleshow/77116975.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Kozhikode||NRK returnees betting on buffalo farming||KOZHIKODE: Non-resident Keralites forced to return after Covid-19 cast a shadow over their Gulf dreams are now betting big on buffalo farming. Wayanad-based Brahmagiri Development Society (BDS), a state government-backed cooperative which has been supplying buffalo calves to farmers across the state for the last five years, said that it has been flooded with enquiries from expat returnees looking to set up farms. "We have had around 1,987 bookings for calves since April and expat returnees constitute around 60% of the total. They are venturing into buffalo farming in a big way as it offers the potential for good income within a short period without much investment. Also, buffalo rearing is an enterprise which can be carried out without much maintenance," said Abhinand K, a livestock inspector with BDS. The society has been procuring six-month to one-year-old Murrah breed of buffalo calves from Andhra Pradesh and offering them to farmers at around Rs 12,000 each. A calf weighs around 90g-130kg and its price is calculated at the rate of Rs 110 a kg. The society, which is a leading producer of frozen meat with its Malabar Meat brand, has a buyback arrangement under which it will purchase grown-up buffalos from farmers after the animals attain 350- 400kg weight within 18 months. "Normally a farmer can sell a buffalo for around Rs 40,000 and above. The rearing cost for a buffalo would be around Rs 8,000 which would leave the farmers with a decent profit. As there is an assured market for buffalo meat in the state, expats won't find selling the animals an issue. Also, when compared to dairying, buffalo rearing requires less maintenance and care. And during Eid and Christmas farmers can get still higher prices," Abhinand added. According to BDS officials, there has been a steady increase in the buffalo calves sold by the society to farmers, from 1,568 in 2015-16 to 3,222 in 2019-20. This year the society hopes to provide 5,000 calves. Najeeb K and his friend K Rafeeq, both from Meppayur in Kozhikode, took to buffalo rearing a fortnight back and have procured six calves from BDS. They have placed orders for another 25. Both had been working as drivers in the Gulf and while Rafeeq returned after he lost his job in Kuwait in March, Najeeb had come back in February though his job is also uncertain. "We were looking to start some venture and buffalo rearing seems to be something which we can carry out on our own. We have now started rearing on leased land and hope to expand the business after preparing a project report and taking a loan. We hope that the venture would be successful and provide us with a livelihood in our homeland," Najeeb said. According to the state director of the animal husbandry department, Dr C Madhu, there has been growing interest in buffalo farming in the state. “As Kerala is a leading state in meat consumption there is good prospect for buffalo farming. Also buffalo meat has good export potential as well. Given the agro-climatic conditions in the state, buffalos can be easily reared and they are relatively less prone to diseases,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/nrk-returnees-betting-on-buffalo-farming/articleshow/77115532.cms||K R Rajeev
July 23, 2020||Jaipur||ED raids Gehlot’s elder brother in fertiliser scam, Congress cries foul||New Delhi/Jodhpur: Agrasen Gehlot, the elder brother of Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, and his firm Anupam Krishi were at the centre of nationwide searches carried out by the Enforcement Directorate on Wednesday. Gehlot is accused of illegally exporting 35,000 tons of potassium chloride (Muriate of Potash: MoP), a restricted commodity issued at subsidised rates for use of farmers, making a wrongful gain. Agrasen, allegedly as part of a “smuggling syndicate”, exported the fertiliser “mis-declaring the consignments as industrial salt” to buyers in Malaysia and Taiwan. The raids covered Agrasen’s Jodhpur residence and premises linked to him in Rajasthan, Gujarat, Delhi and Kolkata. Rejecting claims made by Congress that the raids were politically motivated, a senior ED official said the agency registered a money laundering investigation against Gehlot based on a prosecution complaint (chargesheet) filed by the customs authorities earlier this month in Mundra. The searches were conducted immediately after registering a probe under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) to seize documents and financial statements to establish money trails. He also said the fertiliser scam case was first registered by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence in Ahmedabad sometime in 2009-10 when Congress-led UPA was in power. After investigation and questioning of Gehlot, a showcause notice was filed against him holding him guilty along with others in the alleged fraud. “It was during the UPA regime in 2013 that the customs had imposed a penalty of Rs 61 crore on Gehlot and his firm for the fertiliser scam,” said the ED officer, refuting claims of victimisation by Congress functionaries. Gehlot had earlier claimed that some companies might have purchased fertiliser from him as middlemen and exported instead of distributing it to farmers. The customs authorities, however, rejected the defence, citing what they called evidence of alleged forgery of documents directly involving the CM's elder brother. According to people close to Gehlot, Anupam Krishi and Gehlot had challenged the DRI’s “misappropriation case” and even contested the showcause notice before a tribunal. A decision is pending, they said. Gehlot, who runs a fertiliser and seeds shop in Jodhpur, has always maintained a low profile despite his brother becoming CM of Rajasthan several times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ed-raids-gehlots-elder-brother-in-fertiliser-scam-congress-cries-foul/articleshow/77116986.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Fight over tube well installation in ward number 5 continues||LUDHIANA: The dispute over water supply on ward number 4 and 5 is not coming to an end, as after trying to stop water supply lines installation in ward number 4, the husband of ward number 5 councillor Neelam Sharma, Rakesh Sharma has once again raised allegations against the officials. He complained that tube well had failed in ward number 5 and it was supposed to be installed again, but officials kept mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu in the dark and got approval in principal for installing that tube well in ward number 4, which belongs to Congress councillor Sukhdev Bawa. Rakesh said three tube wells had failed in the ward and water supply in areas are affected badly. He told that two tube wells were fixed but the third was shifted to ward number 4. He even alleged that under political pressure, the officials got in principal approval from the mayor without disclosing him anything. The mayor has now asked the officials to file a reply for the allegations. However, when contacted, executive engineer of operation and maintenance cell, Pardeep Kumar, said, “We are only shifting the location and this tube well can be installed at border line of ward number 5 to benefit both areas.” Notably, councillor of ward number 4, Bawa and Rakesh had started fighting blows last week when water supply lines were being laid in ward number 4 and connection to these lines was to given through tube well in ward number 5. Rakesh had then insisted that the tube well be fixed in his ward as otherwise water supply for ward number 5 will be affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/fight-over-tube-well-installation-in-ward-5-continues/articleshow/77116988.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC asks RBI if circular to banks on fraud accounts denies justice to borrowers||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Wednesday sought to know from the RBI whether its latest circular issued to banks to declare certain loan accounts as fraud accounts was denying principles of natural justice to borrowers. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy were dealing with pleas filed by Rajesh Agarwal of BS Limited, who challenged the decision of the SBI and several other consortium banks to declare his account as a fraud account. Following his contention that he was not given a chance to explain his case, HC earlier stayed the decision of the consortium. Aggrieved by this, both RBI and SBI are now urging the court to vacate the stay order. While the RBI has been contending that it issued a circular asking the banks to declare the suspicious accounts as fraud accounts, the SBI is saying that their consortium of banks suffered losses to a tune of Rs 1,500 crore due to diversion and siphoning of funds committed by Agarwal’s BS company. Appearing for SBI, advocate general BS Prasad told the court that the loan account of BS Ltd, represented by its MD Agarwal, was declared as a fraud account by the consortium of lenders headed by SBI on Feb 15, 2019. According to him, the consortium led by SBI extended Rs 1,500 crore as loan to BS company. The forensic audit of the company accounts revealed discrepancies. RBI has empowered banks under section 35-A of the Banking Regulation Act to declare such accounts as fraud accounts, the AG said. The account will be declared as fraud only when the borrower fails to explain or refuses to explain discrepancies in funds flow. “Hence, the question of not giving him an opportunity to explain does not arise,” Prasad explained. RBI counsel Nalin Kumar said the purpose behind the circular issued by RBI was to tackle the ongoing loan frauds and also to alert member-banks on time. The bench adjourned the case for three weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-asks-rbi-if-circular-to-banks-on-fraud-accounts-denies-justice-to-borrowers/articleshow/77116985.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
July 23, 2020||Nashik||Cases in Dhule cross 2,200-mark||Nashik: With addition of 66 new cases, the number of Covid-19 cases in Dhule district on Wednesday increased to 2,218. According to a health official, three people — a 65-year-old man, a 35-year-old man and a 35-year-old woman — died on Tuesday and the death toll has reached to 90. “Strong efforts in contact tracing and early intervention by the district administration has helped in bringing down the death rate from 11% in June to less than 4% today (on Wednesday),” he said. “The worst-hit areas continue to be Dhule city and Shirpur taluka. However, the rate of recovery in the district has also jumped to 67%,” he added. The testing has also been intensified and the ICMR guidelines are also being followed. “Whenever a fresh case comes up, intense contact tracing is carried out and this is leading to more numbers of patients. The fresh cases are lower these days and most belong to the high risk contacts of the earlier ones. The administration’s efforts to contain the citizens is yielding some results due to which the index cases are limited,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cases-in-dhule-cross-2200-mark/articleshow/77114253.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Kolkata||We’re helpless, had to hoard household items for 4 days||During the lockdown, we had maintained a routine. There would be fixed days when we would go out and stock up on necessary things for the remaining days of the week. After things normalised and everything opened up, we let our guards down and started shopping like old times, of course wearing masks and maintaining social distancing norms. Now the old vignettes of the lockdown came rushing back once we heard that there would be a total lockdown on Thursday and Saturday. So, the first thing that came to my mind was to stock up till Sunday. We know that it’s just a two-day affair with a gap but the perception is of a total shutdown till Sunday. And it is not unfounded because the green grocers and fruit sellers have told us that a Thursday shutdown will bring a disruption to the supply chain. They deal in perishables that have to be bought either the previous night or in the wee hours of the morning. With a total lockdown on Thursday, they will not be able to procure their stocks on Friday, so bazaars might remain open with skeletal items. The same scene is likely to be repeated on Sunday. We have a big family with typical needs because there is a kid and elders who have to be taken care of. We have done a stock check of medicines for my parents and replenished them. Since the domestic helps have taken leave till Sunday, I have also bought mops to clean the house. Big jars of disinfecting home cleaners have been bought and since we use a particular brand of hand sanitiser that is not available in the market, I have bought it online. Though the price of fruits and vegetables was high, I bought quite a variety and stocked up in the refrigerator, not to speak of the more than usual stock of potatoes, onions and a crate of eggs too. I know people might call this hoarding, but I am helpless. Since it’s a big family, the demand is more and I have to keep a variety of supplies handy! We are not the bread eating kind so I did not stock up on them, but biscuits, vermicelli, poha or flattened rice, peanuts and all kinds of grams have also been stocked up till the weekend. We eat a lot of fruits and so we have bought a few kilograms of mangoes and a few pineapples. I hope this will suffice. (Kohli, a fashion designer, spoke to Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/were-helpless-had-to-hoard-household-items-for-4-days/articleshow/77116400.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Girl, 15, raped by dad, grandad, to abort pregnancy||MADURAI: Taking into consideration the well-being of a 15-year-old girl, who was sexually abused by her father and grandfather in Thanjavur district, which resulted in her pregnancy, the Madras high court on Tuesday allowed pregnancy termination, though the gestation period was 25 weeks. The court was hearing a petition filed by the maternal aunt of the minor girl who sought to terminate her pregnancy. According to the petitioner, after the death of the girl’s mother, her father and grandfather sexually assaulted her. A case was registered under sections of the Pocso Act and both the accused were arrested. Justice R Pongiappan observed that perusal of the provision of Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act reveals that termination of pregnancy is not permissible, if the length of pregnancy exceeds 20 weeks. The judge observed that however Section 5 of the Act lays down exceptions. The judge observed that pursuant to an earlier direction of this court, dean of the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital constituted a medical committee to ascertain if the termination was possible and if continuance of pregnancy would cause harm to the health of the girl. The judge said that the committee in its report stated that the gestational period of the pregnancy is 25 weeks and termination can be considered by taking into account the social and psycho social aspects of the victim. The judge further observed that the Supreme Court has also held that even though the length of pregnancy exceeds the statutory limit, termination could be allowed if there are compelling reasons. Hence, the judge directed the dean to commence the process of pregnancy termination in the presence of a team of doctors in the medical committee by ensuring the safety of the victim during the procedure. The judge also directed that the samples of the foetus shall be preserved since the criminal case is pending. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)Watch Tamil Nadu: Minor girl raped by dad, grandad, to abort pregnancy||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tamil-nadu-girl-15-raped-by-dad-grandad-to-abort-pregnancy/articleshow/77117003.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Varanasi||UP: 16 test positive for coronavirus in Ballia district jail||VARANASI: After Mau and Sonbhadra, Covid-19 menace has also reached the Ballia district jail as 11 inmates and five prison staff were confirmed Covid-19 positive on Tuesday. With the detection of 16 cases in the district jail, a team of health department camped inside the jail for the contact tracing of the infected persons to check the possibility of further spread of the virus. Talking to TOI, chief medical officer Ballia Dr Jitendra Pal said, “A total of 50 new cases of Covid-19 positive had come to light in the district on Tuesday. Among these 11 were prisoners of the district jail while five prison staff were also found infected.” Following the new developments, the health department swung into action and rushed a team to the district jail on Wednesday, said the CMO adding that the team is not only tracing the infected prisoners and the staff and those who were in their contact, but is also conducting screening of the prisoners and others having any symptoms of Covid-19. The jail authorities claimed that all the prisoners, who were tested Covid-19 positive, were lodged in the jail a few days ago. As per the protocol followed at the district jail, they said, all new prisoners are being kept in the outer cordon to avoid their contact with other prisoners. They claimed that due to the protocol being followed the possibility of spread of infection at large is less. Earlier on July 6, CMO Sonbhadra Dr SK Upadhyaya had confirmed that 17, including nine prisoners and eight prison staff, who had remained in contact of already infected police constable of Gurma police outpost, were tested positive. These prisoners were also sent to the district jail in recent past and were kept in the outer cordon to end the possibility of contacting other prisoners of the jail. Again, on July 14 one more prisoner in Sonbhadra jail was tested Covid-19 positive Earkier, two prisoners in the district jail of Mau were tested Covid-19 positive on July 2. District magistrate Mau Gyan Prakash Tripathi had confirmed that two criminals, who were arrested recently in a case of Gangster Act and as per the SOP of district jail were lodged in outer cordon, had been tested positive after their samples were sent for laboratory test on June 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/16-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-ballia-dist-jail/articleshow/77116982.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Kochi||Law College hosts its first global webinar||KOCHI: The Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) of Government Law College, Ernakulam, hosted an international webinar on ‘Emerging Trends in Intellectual Property Rights’ on Wednesday. This was the first international webinar organized by the college and was attended by more than 200 participants, including academicians, lawyers, students and alumni from across the globe. World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) former director S Rama Rao joined the webinar from New York. Other participants included Nuals faculty Asif E and Athira P S, senior IP consultant from Mumbai advocate Biju Komath, Government Law College, Ernakulam, principal Bindu Nambiar, associate professors Binu Poornamodan Cholayil (coordinator) and Gifty Oommen (moderator).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/law-college-hosts-its-first-global-webinar/articleshow/77115558.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Jaipur||Speaker moves SC against HC order to defer proceedings||New Delhi/Jaipur: The Rajasthan assembly speaker moved the Supreme Court on Wednesday challenging the high court’s July 21 request-cum-directive to defer till July 24 the disqualification proceedings against 19 rebel Congress MLAs led by Sachin Pilot though he had indicated on Tuesday to abide by the HC’s directive. The postponement of disqualification proceedings in deference to the HC directive overnight changed into a challenge before the SC through a special leave petition (SLP), in which the speaker questioned the HC’s jurisdiction to intervene in pending disqualification proceedings, in which notices were issued to the rebel MLAs on July 14 to respond by July 17. The MLAs had challenged the validity of the notices before the HC, which reserved its decision after conclusion of arguments on Tuesday. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari is scheduled to hear the petition on Thursday. “To avoid a constitutional deadlock while upholding the HC dignity, I asked my counsel to file a SLP to obtain permission for carrying out my constitutional responsibilities under Schedule X. The HC orders have curtailed my constitutional responsibility. I seek the state and the country’s attention on an issue that is important for the functioning of constitutional authorities in a parliamentary democracy,” Speaker Joshi said during a press conference at his residence in Jaipur. Pilot camp had approached the high court against the notices that were based on Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi’s petitions to the speaker that the 19 MLAs failed to attend two consecutive legislature party meetings on July 13 and 14 despite a whip, which tantamounted to them “voluntarily” giving up the party memberships and, hence, fit to be disqualified from the Assembly under the anti-defection law. “I have merely sought replies from the MLAs by issuing them show-cause notices (on chief whip’s petition). I have yet to take a decision on these notices. But the high court intervening even at this stage is unfortunate and in violation of the constitution as well as the SC judgment. The court cannot direct me before I give my decision,” Joshi said. He added, “I am disappointed at the HC giving me directions. In the Kihoto Hollohan vs Zachillhu case, a SC constitutional bench in 1992 upheld the validity of Schedule X and established that the speaker had the sole right to decide on a member’s disqualification and how it is to be done. It was clearly ruled that no court will intervene or pass ‘quia timet’ (injunction) till the speaker has taken a decision on the disqualification petitions. From 1992 till date there is not a single case in which the court overruled the constitutional bench judgment.” Joshi said, “The strength of our parliamentary democracy is that the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha make laws and after the Supreme Court’s interpretations, we all abide by those laws. The speaker’s decisions are unquestionable. The courts can go for judicial reviews only afterwards.” Mentioning the HC division bench order of July 21 on Pilot camp’s plea, the speaker said, “The court directed me not to act on the petitions pending before me under the constitution’s Schedule X. As a constitutional authority, I am but bound to pass an order on these petitions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/speaker-moves-sc-against-hc-order-to-defer-proceedings/articleshow/77117005.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
July 23, 2020||Madurai||HC allows abortion of foetus of girl raped by dad, granddad||Madurai: Taking into consideration the well-being of a 15-year-old girl, who was sexually abused by her father and grandfather in Thanjavur district, which resulted in her pregnancy, the Madras high court on Tuesday allowed pregnancy termination, though the gestation period was 25 weeks. The court was hearing a petition filed by the maternal aunt of the minor girl who sought to terminate her pregnancy. According to the petitioner, after the death of the girl’s mother, her father and grandfather sexually assaulted her. A case was registered under sections of the Pocso Act and both the accused were arrested. Justice R Pongiappan observed that perusal of the provision of Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act reveals that termination of pregnancy is not permissible, if the length of pregnancy exceeds 20 weeks. The judge observed that however Section 5 of the Act lays down exceptions. The judge observed that pursuant to an earlier direction of this court, dean of the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital constituted a medical committee to ascertain if the termination was possible and if continuance of pregnancy would cause harm to the health of the girl. The judge said that the committee in its report stated that the gestational period of the pregnancy is 25 weeks and termination can be considered by taking into account the social and psycho social aspects of the victim. The judge further observed that the Supreme Court has also held that even though the length of pregnancy exceeds the statutory limit, termination could be allowed if there are compelling reasons. Hence, the judge directed the dean to commence the process of pregnancy termination in the presence of a team of doctors in the medical committee by ensuring the safety of the victim during the procedure. The judge also directed that the samples of the foetus shall be preserved since the criminal case is pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-allows-abortion-of-foetus-of-girl-raped-by-dad-granddad/articleshow/77116991.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Madurai||Custodial torture death: CB-CID DSP directed to file status report||Madurai: The Madras high court on Wednesday directed the Tirunelveli CB-CID DSP to file a status report in a case where a man died after being tortured by the Sathankulam police, who are also accused of murdering a father-son duo.Justice R Pongiappan passed the order while hearing a petition filed by S Vadivu of Sathankulam, who sought a probe into the death of her son, Mahendran. The judge directed the CB-CID DSP to file a status report, with regard to the progress of the inquiry, on August 7.Meanwhile, superintendent of police (SP) of Tuticorin district S Jayakumar handed over the details and documents pertaining to Mahendran’s custodial death to Anil Kumar, the CB-CID DSP for Tirunelveli.The SP told TOI that an additional superintendent of police was conducting an inquiry based on an earlier order of the high court. “We have not registered a case and the inquiry was based on a petition from Mahendran’s mother,” he added.A team of CB-CID officials conducted an inquiry with Mahendran’s sister at her house at KVK Nagar in Tuticorin for nearly two hours on Wednesday.During the previous hearing on Tuesday, the state government informed the court that the director general of police had issued proceedings to transfer the investigation to the CB-CID.Vadivu stated that her sons - Durai, 35, Mahendran, 28, was assaulted by SI Raghu Ganesh and inspector Sridhar by keeping him under illegal custody at the police station on May 24. She stated that he had sustained injuries on his head and private parts.Vadivu said that Mahendran, who was left off, experienced dizziness due to the police assault and was admitted to the Tuticorin government hospital on June 11 and subsequently died on June 13. She added that she was threatened not to speak to anyone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/custodial-torture-death-cb-cid-dsp-directed-to-file-status-report/articleshow/77117004.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Vadodara||Two declared dead, 80 test positive in Vadodara||VADODARA: Vadodara city and district registered yet another Covid peak on Wednesday with 80 new cases reported since Tuesday evening. Meanwhile, Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) confirmed two more deaths from the virus taking the toll to 67 so far. The new cases were detected from 576 samples and the huge number pushed up the total number of active cases in the city and district to 3,837. While the south zone registered the highest number of cases with 21 positives, the north zone followed closely with 20 and 16 in the west zone. The east zone saw only two persons testing positive. Twenty-one infected persons belong to Vadodara district outside VMC limits. The cases are from Kayavarohan, Dabhoi, Padra, Savli, Shinor, Karjan, Por and Bhayli. With 44 more persons being discharged on Wednesday, the total number of discharged patients reached 3,107. These include persons who were found Covid-19 positive, but died due to other complications or co-morbid conditions. As many as 663 persons from the city and district remain under treatment in various hospitals in the city. These include 34 on ventilators or BIPAP machines and 132 persons breathing with oxygen support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-declared-dead-80-test-positive-in-vadodara/articleshow/77115411.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Ludhiana||As gyms remain closed, several trainers move to daily jobs to subsist||LUDHIANA: After ‘unlocking’ the government decided to resume several services for public, but unfortunately gyms are not among them. Now, several youngsters in the city, who have been working in the gyms are finding it difficult to make both ends meet. They are hoping that the gyms will be opened soon so that their life can be on back on track. Karanjeet Singh, a gym trainer, is now working in a factory for a living. He said, “I was working as a gym trainer near Ghumar mandi, but following lockdown the gym was closed and I have been sitting idle since then. Meanwhile, bank representatives were on my door every day for the money, which I have taken from them as loan for my house. The situation was just getting tense, as gyms are not opening even after three months. I had to look for another job. So I contacted one of my clients from the gym who owned factories and he gave me a job as labourer in his factory. There also I am not able to get work daily as the factories are also not having enough orders from the companies. I work for about four days a week. I am operating a machine that cuts the steel. This is the only work I have right now and I somehow am paying my debts with it. Hope everything gets to normal soon.” Although not a trainer, Vivek too was working in a gym and is now forced to work in a factory to earn a living. His gym was near Bhai Wala Chowk and he worked in the administration side of it. He is now working in a hosiery factory near Jalandhar bypass. When the lockdown got over and everything was opening, I was filled with hope. But the government did not open the gyms even for a single day. One random day, I got a call from the owner of the gym to collect the salary for the days I have worked for. The government didn’t do anything for people like us. To support my family, I started to look for a job and I ended up working in a hosiery factory. I work for six days a week, from 9am to 7pm near Jalandhar bypass. I used to earn Rs 14,000 earlier, now I earn Rs 10,000. But my rent and school fees of my two children remain the same. I pay Rs 3,000 just for rent. My wife has a blood pressure problem, so I don’t let her work. I used to send money to my father who was living in the village. But now I cannot and he is forced to do daily labour to live at this age. I just wish everything went back to normal as quickly as possible so I can help my father.” Mani Kumar, who has been working as a trainer in the gym, said he never thought he would have to leave his job and work in a factory. “I have been working as a trainer for the last two years and I thought of doing a diploma nutritionist from Chandigarh to take this forwars. But because of the Covid-19 all plans were cancelled or changed. After losing job in the gym, I started looking for a job and fortunately, I got the job in a factory near Gill road. The whole routine is changed now so I don’t find time to exercise even. I am working as a labourer for six days a week, from morning to evening. I am earning money for my family. I am just waiting for the day when the gyms would open and I will go for the certification and start achieving new goals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/as-gyms-remain-closed-several-trainers-move-to-daily-jobs-to-subsist/articleshow/77116999.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Varanasi||EU, India to develop bio-tech to treat sewage water||VARANASI: Indian Institute of Technology (Banaras Hindu University) will play an important role in developing a biotechnology-based water treatment system for the purification of sewage water flowing into the rivers Ganga and Godavari under a joint project funded by India and the European Union. The project is funded by the Indian ministry of science & technology, department of biotechnology, in collaboration with the European Union. The sponsored project, ‘SPRING-Strategic Planning for Water Resources and Implementation of Novel Biotechnical Treatment solutions and Good Practices (SPRING)’, is funded for a period of three years starting June 2020. IIT (BHU) director Prof Pramod Kumar Jain said that the Institute will perform Geo spatial analysis with respect to land use-land coverage and water resources for identification of point and non-point sources of pollution of water bodies using integrated remote sensing for the Ganga near Varanasi. Further, field trials and testing of prototypes will be done at selected sites of the Godavari delta and also river Ganga. The developed system can be utilized by Municipality, NGOs or State Water Board. He further informed that the specific goal of the project is to develop a prototype of the innovative low-cost advanced bio-oxidation treatment system for polluted water. For river Ganga, the target is to cover major sources of pollution from upstream of the Varanasi city to the downstream up to the confluence of river Gomati near Kaithy. The contributory catchments of river Assi and Varuna will also be part of the study. Jain said the project ‘SPRING’ is unique because for the first time, it envisages to apply geo-spatial analysis with respect to land use, land cover and water resources for identification of point and non-point sources of pollution using integrated remote sensing in the Godavari delta and Ganga near Varanasi for monitoring, develop enzyme biotechnology-based advanced oxidation process (AOP) for treatment of organic pollutants, and microbial fuel cell (MFC) based novel bio-sensing systems for identification of new pollutant in the study area. “It also seeks developing stakeholders’ decision-making and management framework with municipality and NGOs, State Water Board, etc., to apply the developed remediation system in the field for application,” he added. In this project, Prof. Prabhat Kumar Singh, Dr Shishir Gaur and Dr Anurag Ohri from the department of civil engineering are the lead persons from IIT (BHU). Other Indian partners of the project include IIT Guwahati, IIT Kharagpur and other academic & research institutes. Prof. Sanjukta Patra from IIT Guwahati is the Indian coordinator for the project. Foreign partners involved in the project are University of Tromsø, Norway (UIT), University of PECS (UP), Hungary, Northern Research Institute, Narvik AS (NORUT Narvik), Norway, INESC TEC, Portugal, ENVIROINVEST, Hungary. The foreign partner will share their expertise related to bio- technology based treatment systems and sensor systems for developing the prototype related to Indian environmental condition and properties of sewage coming into the rivers Ganga and Godavri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/eu-india-to-develop-bio-tech-to-treat-sewage-water/articleshow/77116997.cms||Binay Singh
July 23, 2020||Nashik||13 shops with Rs 30L rent dues seized in Nashik Rd division||Nashik: The civic body has seized 13 more shops (galas) located in commercial complexes in the Nashik Road division as their operators defaulted on payment of collective rent to the tune of Rs 30 lakh, despited reminders and warnings. This is the second time the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has taken action against the defaulters. A few days ago, 11 shops in the Satpur division were seized for defaulting on Rs 25 lakh towards rent.The NMC had set a 14-day ultimatum for clearing the dues to avoid legal action. “First we issued show-cause notices followed by final notices to the defaulters, but there were no replies. Now, we have issued a public notice, giving them the last opportunity to pay the rent dues within 14 days,” said a civic official. After Satpur and Nashik Road division, the civic body plans to take similar action against defaulters in the other four divisions — Nashik East, Nashik West, Panchavati and Cidco.The NMC owns 1,905 shops in commercial complexes and shopping centres across its six divisions and has given them on lease. The shops are rented out as per the ready reckoner (RR) rent while agreements are renewed once in three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/13-shops-with-rs-30l-rent-dues-seized-in-nashik-rd-division/articleshow/77114264.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 23, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||‘Oldest man’ passes away without going into record books in Kerala||KOLLAM: E K Kesavan Nair who died on Wednesday might have lost a chance to receive the title for the oldest man in record books. As per Nair’s Aadhaar details, he was born on January 1, 1901. So, that means, he was 119. According to Guinness World Records, the oldest person ever to have lived is Jeanne Calment (France), who lived to be 122 years, and the oldest man ever is Jiroemon Kimura (Japan), who was born in 1897 and passed away at the age of 116 years. Born to Gopinathan Nair and Parvathy Amma of Mannar in Alappuzha, Kesavan Nair completed his basic education at a school at Kaithavadakku, Chettikulangara. Later, he continued his studies at a school founded by Swami Dayananda Saraswathi at Adoor. Poet and writer Kottarathil Sankunni was one of his teachers. Nair had been regularly helping many children write their first alphabets for 72 years during the time of Vijayadashmi and has been fondly known as Nilathzhuthasan. Though his eyesight was failing in his last days, he suffered from no other known health issues. He always cherished the memory of meeting Mahatma Gandhi and Jawaharlal Nehru. He had reportedly participated in the Vimochana Samaram (1958–59) against the first elected communist government in the state. Nair’s wife Parukutty had passed away 20 years ago. His second son Ramachandran is 87 years old. He was staying with his 74-year-old daughter Santhamma and leaves behind two other children as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/oldest-man-passes-away-without-going-into-record-books/articleshow/77115578.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Madurai||HC seeks response on plea seeking aid for unorganized workers||Madurai: The Madras high court has sought a response from the secretary of the construction workers welfare board to a series of questions put forth by it, in order to take a call on a plea which sought the state government to provide Covid-19 financial aid to all registered unorganised sector workers, irrespective of the renewal of membership.The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by P Ponkumar, president of the Thamizhaga Kattida Thozhilalar Mathiya Sangam based at Madurai.Senior counsel P Wilson appearing for the petitioner submitted that once a construction worker is registered with the welfare board and assuming that he has not renewed his membership, he is deemed to continue in the register until his membership is cancelled.The state government had given various relief measures through various welfare boards to unorganised sector workers and even extended the same to unregistered hairdressers and weavers due to Covid-19 pandemic. But, the same were not extended to construction workers who have not renewed their membership for reasons beyond their control.Additional advocate general K Chellapandian submitted that there are a large number of inter-state workers in the board and in the absence of renewal, it is very difficult to enumerate them for the purpose of giving benefits.Taking cognizance of the submissions, a division bench of justice M Sathyanarayanan and justice P Rajamanickam directed the secretary of the welfare board to file an affidavit dealing with the factual as well as the legal aspects in this regard. The judges further said that the affidavit should answer the following queries: Number of registered workers on their roll, workers who have renewed their membership, members who have not renewed their membership and construction workers who have renewed their membership through online mode.The judges said that it is also open to the secretary to suggest remedial measures as to the payment of benefits to those who have not renewed their membership.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-response-on-plea-seeking-aid-for-unorganized-workers/articleshow/77117008.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Madurai||Plea to stop Smart City work at Tamukkam ground||Madurai: A plea has been filed before the Madras high court seeking to stop construction work on a multipurpose convention centre carried out under Smart City project at Tamukkam ground in Madurai. A division bench of justice M Sathyanarayanan and justice P Rajamanickam sought response from the Madurai Corporation while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by C Nethaji Karthikeyan, founder of Madurai based NGO Ilam Kaalaigal Trust. The petitioner stated that Tamukkam ground is one of the historical sites in Madurai. It was created during Nayak kingdomand was used for display of royal entertainment events. The ground, which extends to nearly 9.68 acres is maintained by the corporation. Since the residents are unhappy about the transformation of the Tamukkam ground, he moved the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-to-stop-smart-city-work-at-tamukkam-ground/articleshow/77117013.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Hospital asked to refund Rs 1.4 lakh of PPE bill to patient||KOLKATA: The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) on Wednesday asked a private hospital in Mukundapur to refund a large portion of the amount that the hospital had allegedly charged a patient for PPE while the person was being treated for Covid-19. The patient had been in the hospital for about three-and-a-half weeks, including seven days in the ICU, during the treatment. Alleging that the hospital had charged Rs 1.8 lakh for PPE, the family had lodged a complaint with WBCERC. The hospital, however, said its legal team was looking into ways to get the verdict reviewed. It also denied the charges of over-billing, citing that cost of PPE kits was much higher when the patient had been admitted to the hospital and that several consultants and healthcare workers were involved in the taking care of the patient, leading to a large number of PPE kits being used. “The patient was admitted at a time when we had to procure personal safety gears at a higher price. If we are forced to refund, it will become difficult for private hospitals to operate,” said a statement from the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hosp-asked-to-refund-rs-1-4l-of-ppe-bill-to-patient/articleshow/77116418.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi cop’s case sparks debate on re-infection||NEW DELHI: Can a person get re-infected by the novel coronavirus? Though there is no definite evidence on this as yet, sporadic instances have been reported from Delhi and other parts of the country suggesting reinfection is a possibility. The latest instance involves a Delhi Police inspector who tested positive for Covid-19 and was treated in Apollo Hospitals from May 15 to May 22. Five days after discharge, tests confirmed he was negative for Covid-19. A month and a half later, on July 13, the inspector again developed dry cough, fever and breathing difficulty. When tested, he was confirmed to have Covid. “He was in home isolation, but after complaining of chest pain on July 16, he was rushed to hospital. No complication, but we are keeping him in the hospital to monitor his vitals,” informed Dr Rajesh Chawla, senior consultant, respiratory and critical care medicine, Apollo Hospitals. Saying that the police officer was in stable condition at present, Chawla added, “This is a rare case of someone testing positive a second time. Investigation is required to establish whether this is due to residual viral fragment or re-infection.” Dr V K Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, said re-infection cases were based on anecdotal reports. “We need more evidence to confirm this. But I must add that such a possibility cannot be ruled out completely,” he said. Recently, a nurse in north Delhi’s Bara Hindu Rao Hospital also got re-infected some weeks after recovering. Dr Anita Chakravarti, former professor and head of the department of microbiology at Maulana Azad Medical College, said humoral immunity, which helps in formation of antibodies, weans away in 70-90 days. “If this happens, there might be a chance of a relapse. However, not much is known on whether and how this occurs. A study on the genomics of the coronavirus can establish if it has other strains,” she said. Dr Navin Dang, consultant microbiologist and founder of Dr Dang’s Lab, hasn’t come across re-infection cases. “One can test positive again due to numerous reasons,” he reasoned. “For example, the presence of dead viral fragments in the nasopharyngeal cavity, as happened in South Korea where some people tested positive a second time after making full recovery from an earlier bout.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/city-cops-case-sparks-debate-on-re-infection/articleshow/77116421.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
July 23, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand reports highest one-day spike of 451 Covid-19 cases||Dehradun: Uttarakhand reported its highest single-day spike of 451 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, which pushed its overall tally to 5,300. The maximum of 204 cases were again reported from the Haridwar district. Majority of the new cases were employees of an industrial unit in SIDCUL or their contacts. As reported by TOI, 288 employees of the init had tested positive earlier. State capital Dehradun also reported 43 new cases on the day. In Nainital, 73 new cases were found. As many as 29 cops and nine of their family members tested positive from the city's Lalkuan police station. Rajiv Mohan, circle officer of Lakuan, said that among the infected policemen, two are sub-inspectors, two are police station heads, and the others are constables. “Apart from 29 policemen, nine of their family members were also found positive. We have quarantined around 30 others who have come in contact with positive cases and their tests will be conducted in the days to come,” he added. Udham Singh Nagar also reported 98 fresh cases on Wednesday. Among these, 51 are contacts of earlier detected positive cases while travel or contact history of 47 cases wasn’t available till the time of filing this report. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, said, “Tehri Garhwal reported 11 fresh cases, followed by nine cases from Uttarkashi, five from Pithoragarh, and four each in Almora and Pauri Garhwal districts.” The official also informed that a 47-year-old Covid-19 positive woman died at AIIMS Rishikesh on the day. He added that the patient died of ventricular fibrillation respiratory failure. With this, the death toll of the virus in the state reached 57. Till Wednesday, Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar had the maximum number of active cases. While 634 Covid-19 patients are under treatment in Haridwar, Udham Singh Nagar has 430 active cases. In Dehradun, 339 Covid-19 cases are active while in Nainital, 271 patients are under treatment. Among all the hill districts, Tehri and Uttarkashi have the maximum of 52 active coronavirus cases each. State’s recovery rate on Wednesday was 65.17%. However, the infection rate in Uttarakhand went up by 4.51% due to surge in cases. Covid-19 reports of 9,579 samples were awaited till Wednesday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-reports-highest-one-day-spike-of-451-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77114274.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 23, 2020||Agra||Bareilly reports 2 Covid deaths, 72 new cases in Shahjahanpur||Bareilly/Agra/Meerut: There has been another steep single-day rise in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in Shahjahanpur, with at least 72 people found infected on Wednesday. The total tally here has now reached 501 with 324 active cases and one death. Notably, Shahjahanpur witnessed 77 cases a few days ago. Moreover, two more people died due to Covid-19 in Bareilly on Wednesday. Besides, at least 44 fresh cases were reported. The district tally has now crossed the 1,000 mark, with the total cases at 1,041. There are also 504 active ones and 35 deaths. Additional chief medical officer Dr Ashok Kumar said, "A 65-year-old man and a 32-year-old man who were under treatment at Covid-19 level two and three hospitals, respectively, died on Wednesday." Also, a 67-year-old woman from Budaun died at a hospital in Bareilly. In Agra district, an 82-year-old man passed away during treatment at the SN Medical College on Wednesday. The Belanganj resident was a cancer patient as was on chemotherapy. He had suffered respiratory failure. So far, 96 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. Also, at least 21 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Wednesday evening, taking the district tally to 1,557. While 14 patients were discharged. Of the 1,557 cases, 82.47% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are 179 active cases now in the district. Meanwhile, at least 28 people, including two jewellers and a police officer, tested positive for Covid-19 in Meerut on Wednesday, taking the total tally to 1,838 here. One more death took the toll to 86, said Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's chief medical officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/bareilly-reports-2-covid-deaths-72-new-cases-in-shahjahanpur/articleshow/77114286.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Puri Temple to place Rath Yatra chariots on display||Bhubaneswar: The Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) has decided to place the three chariots of Rath Yatra on display within the premises of Jagannath Ballav mutt in Puri. A plan is being prepared for proper conservation and maintenance of the chariots. After Rath Yatra every year, the chariots are dismantled. While the wheels and some other parts are auctioned, the remaining parts are used as firewood in the Jagannath Temple’s kitchen. The chariots made for Rath Yatra this year have not been dismantled yet. However, the temple administration is yet to take a call on whether it would put them up for display. “We have just initiated a discussion with experts, including carpenters, servitors and engineers. We have to devise a plan for the maintenance of the chariots. It will take some time,” SJTA chief administrator Krishan Kumar said. Jagannath Ballav mutt, which is spread over 42 acres, is nearly 500 metres from Jagannath temple. The mutt premises are being developed by the state government under the Augmentation of Basic Amenities and Development of Heritage and Architecture (ABADHA) scheme. Carpenters who have been part of chariot work said the temple administration should construct three new chariots inside the mutt for public display. “Tradition does not allow us to pull the chariots again from in front of the Jagannath Temple to another place (Jagannath Ballav mutt). Once the Rath Yatra is completed, the chariots should not be moved; they should be dismantled,” chief carpenter of Jagannath’s Nandighosh chariot, Bijay Mahapatra, said. He said the chariots are built in such a manner that the dismantled wooden components cannot be reused or fixed again. “We can reuse only the wheels. The only alternative left for the temple administration is to construct new chariots inside the Jagannath Ballav mutt,” Mahapatra said. Every year, nearly 1,000 trees of different species are felled for 13,000 cubic feet of wood for making of the three chariots of the deities — Jagannath, Balabhadra and Subhadra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/puri-temple-to-place-rath-yatra-chariots-on-display/articleshow/77115551.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
July 23, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan’s kidney transplant pioneer dies of post-corona complications||JAIPUR: Jaipur-based urologist, who was the first doctor to perform a kidney transplant in Rajasthan, died at 67. He tested positive for Covid-19 on June 17. After a long battle with Covid, Dr S L Tolani, who tested negative for the virus, did not survive the onslaught of the virus on his organs. He is the first doctor from the state to die of complications arising from the virus infection. An official of a private hospital where he was undergoing treatment, said, “He had recovered from Covid, but his organs were badly affected. After recovering, he was shifted to medical ICU, where he breathed his last.” Dr Tolani, who completed his medical studies from Agra in 1979, had pioneered renal transplant in the state. He had gone to Mumbai’s Jaslok Hospital and trained in urology before he came to Jaipur. “He established advanced urological practices in Rajasthan in the mid-80s. Here he performed the first kidney transplant in 1986. That was a pioneering work,” said Dr Ashok Odhrani, managing trustee of the private hospital where Dr Tolani worked for decades. Since then, he never looked back and performed around one lakh major and minor surgeries which also include about 700 kidney transplants, Dr Odhrani claimed. Despite the virus scare, Dr Tolani attended to his patients during the pandemic and took safety measures such as wearing PPE kits. He developed Covid symptoms in mid-June. Following that, he quarantined himself at his home for a few days. When his condition did not improve, he was admitted to a hospital for treatment. His condition deteriorated, following which, he was put on ventilator support for 12 days. His lung condition deteriorated. He was treated with anti-virals, Interleukin – 6 blockers, SLED, cytosorb therapy, etc. But he finally passed away after a month-long battle with Covid. Dr Tolani’s death has come as a shock to the fraternity. “He was a kind hearted surgeon who performed several surgeries free of cost for underprivileged and poor patients,” said Dr M N Thareja, president, Indian Medical Association (Rajasthan). Dr K P Singh, general surgeon, who worked with Dr Tolani for over 10 years, said, “In late 90s, a lot of patients having kidney problems were deprived of healthcare in rural areas. At that time, Dr Tolani organised outreach camps for patients. He was an endoscopic surgery pioneer. I have learnt from him a lot.” “He has contributed a lot to healthcare facilities. He performed the first kidney transplant in the mid-80s when patients were going to Delhi or Mumbai for transplants,” said Dr Suraj Godara, consultant renal transplant of a private hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajs-kidney-transplant-pioneerdies-of-post-corona-complications/articleshow/77117014.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
July 23, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Private hospitals back out from giving Covid treatment||HYDERABAD: Of the 98 private hospitals designated to treat Covid-19 patients in the state, only 56 in Greater Hyderabad limits are offering the services. None of the private hospitals in the districts has begun treating the positive cases. This has put pressure on patients jostling for the beds in various private hospitals. Shortage of nurses and paramedical staff and confusion over package rates are said to be the reasons for the private hospitals backing out from offering Covid-19 treatment after showing enthusiasm initially. It may be recalled a few private hospitals had lined up before the government and ICMR seeking permission to treat positive cases. The hospitals are also not willing to offer treatment as the government has not included Covid-19 under the Aarogyasri scheme. “The insurance companies want us to provide treatment at a rate fixed by the government which is not viable for us,” a private hospital owner said. Apparently, the Insurance and Development Authority in a recent order insisted that all network hospitals must provide cashless treatment to Covid-19 patients after it received complaints of some hospitals demanding cash payments. Dr Ashok Reddy, president of Telangana Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (THNHA), said the problem is also accentuated by the doctors at private hospitals not getting insurance coverage. “We have been seeking insurance coverage for private hospitals’ doctors, at least for those who attend Covid-19 wards, as not many healthcare staff are willing to work there. But, there has been no response from the state or central governments,” he said. In Warangal, several private hospitals which had decided to convert their entire premises into Covid-19 hubs backtracked after the rates fixed by the government were not viable to them. With no insurance cover announced for their doctors, the managements refused to provide treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/private-hospitals-back-out-from-giving-covid-treatment/articleshow/77117022.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 23, 2020||Cuttack||HC: Courts must exercise restraint while reviewing auctions||Cuttack: The Orissa high court has observed that courts must exercise restraint while reviewing auctions conducted by the executive authorities. The bench of Chief Justice Mohammad Rafiq and Justice Debabrata Dash said, “Such conscious restraint is necessary because judicial intervention by itself may affect in a manner leading to frustrate the very objective and problematic ramifications involving time and money.” The observation came while dismissing on Monday a petition challenging the cancellation of an auction because it had a single participant. The bench said, “However, it is not desirable or practicable for courts to review the thousands of auctions conducted by executive authorities every day. The courts, therefore, are cognizant that often-a-times the private interest of a few can clash with public interest of the masses, and hence a requirement to demonstrate effect on ‘public interest’ has been evolved by the court”. “It is, therefore, imperative that in addition to arbitrariness, illegality or discrimination under Article 14 or encroachment of freedom under Article 19(1)(g), public interest too must necessarily be demonstrated in seeking the remedy,” the bench said. Citing several judgments, the bench headed by the Chief Justice said, “Notice must be kept of the impact of overturning an executive decision and its impact on the larger public interest in the form”. “Caution, however, stands that the allegations of illegality, irrationality and procedural impropriety be not completely overlooked to assume jurisdiction and remedy such ills,” the bench said, adding, “Thus, it would only be the decision-making process which would be the subject of enquiry, and not the result”. The HC said it is settled that constitutional courts are concerned only with the lawfulness of a decision, and not its soundness. To place it differently, courts ought not to sit in appeal over the decisions of the executive authorities or instrumentalities and plausible decisions need not be overturned, and latitude ought to be granted to the state in exercise of executive power so that the constitutional separation of powers is not encroached upon. The purpose of holding the auction for purchase of ammonium sulphate by fixing an opening bid price was to provide a platform to maximum number of registered fertilizer dealers in giving the opportunity to purchase the fertilizer for their onward sale to farmers all over the state. “However, being the sole participant in an auction does not bestow upon any entity, a public law entitlement in asserting the right of being so rewarded with,” the bench ruled, adding that in the instant case, there was neither the petitioner’s public law right was affected nor was there any public interest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/hc-courts-must-exercise-restraint-while-reviewing-auctions/articleshow/77115539.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
July 23, 2020||Nashik||NMC gets good respone on 1st day of recruitment||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) received good response on the first day of medical staff recruitment as 120 candidates came for the interview for 247 available positions. The response was good considering the increase in the number of Covid-19 cases and the response to the previous interview where only 20 candidates had applied for over 200 posts of doctors, nurses and para-medical staff. The interviews are being held for 811 various posts of MBBS doctors, specialists, physicians (BAMS), lab technicians, nurses, pharmacists, counsellors and others. On Wednesday, interviews were held for 247 various posts for the health department of the NMC. For the remaining posts, the interview will be held on Thursday. “Our vacant posts of 65 pharmacists, 2 microbiologists and 30 counsellors are filled. We will give them the appointment letters in a day or two,” said a senior NMC official. “We had a requirement of 100 physicians (BAMS), but only 22 candidates attended the interview. Only one candidate came to the interview for 50 vacant posts of doctors (MBBS). We need more BAMS and MBBS doctors. So, we will continue our drive on Thursday and for two days next week as well,” said an NMC official. The candidates will be recruited on honorarium basis for three months. An extension will be given in case the number of Covid-19 cases continues to rise. The official said, “Last week, we conducted an interview for 50 posts of lab technicians and we got 25 lab technicians. Now, interview for the remaining 25 posts of lab technicians will be held on Thursday.” Moreover, a mega recruitment drive will be held on July 28 and 29 to fill the remaining post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-gets-good-respone-on-1st-day-of-recruitment/articleshow/77114287.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 23, 2020||Kozhikode||3 people die of Covid in Malabar||Kozhikode: Three people died of Covid-19 in Malabar on Wednesday even while more areas were declared as containment zones. Those who died are Hairunnisa, 48, of Kasaragod; Sadanandan, 60, from Kannur; and Koyotty, 57, of Kozhikode. Hairunnisa, who was admitted to Pariyaram Medical College Hospital on Monday, was on ventilator support. She had undergone treatment for pneumonia at a private hospital in Kasaragod. She was tested positive while at Kasaragod and was shifted to the medical college. Sadanandan was admitted to Pariyaram Medical College Hospital for a cardiac ailment. He was also under treatment for cancer. The source of two cases has not been identified. Koyotty was admitted to Kozhikode Medical College Hospital (MCH) on July 20 after he was tested positive on July 19. He had contacts with other Covid-positive patients. Meanwhile, 36 health workers, including nine doctors at Kozhikode MCH, have been kept under observation after a patient in a non-Covid department was tested positive. The patient, who was admitted to the medicine department, was found to have contracted the virus on Tuesday. Patients in the surgery and orthopaedics departments were tested positive the other day. The district collector declared all the wards in Vadakara municipality as a containment zone on Wednesday. Adivaram, Elikkad, Kaithapoyil, Engapuzha, Vanikkara and Kakkavayal in Puthupadi panchayat, Moodadi in Chingapuram panchayat and Nesto hyper market in Olavana panchayat have been declared as containment zones. Kuttichira, Chelavoor, Thadambattuthazam and Marad divisions in Kozhikode city corporation will also come under lockdown. Samples from 80 people were collected from Puthupadi. Covid first-line treatment centres in Olavanna will begin in two days. This was decided by a meeting chaired by P T A Rahim, MLA. Meanwhile, a total of 61 people tested positive in Malappuram district. Of these, the source of 23 cases has not been identified. Seventeen people arrived from abroad and nine from other districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/3-people-die-of-covid-in-malabar/articleshow/77115536.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Madurai||Testing up as cases cross 4K in Virudhunagar, Tuticorin||Madurai: Testing has been stepped up in Virudhunagar and Tuticorin as the districts have reported a spike in the number of cases.  Both districts recorded more than 300 cases on Wednesday and also became the second and third districts in south Tamil Nadu to record more than 4,000 cases each, after Madurai that has 8,705 cases. Virudhunagar with 363 fresh cases took the total tally to 4,287. It includes 2,181 recovered people and 2,072 active cases. “Only 146 positive cases are fresh on Wednesday. The remaining 217 are backlog. Some of the results are for samples collected last Friday. From 1,000 samples a day a week ago we increased it to 1,300 in the weekend and to 2,500 from Monday,” says collector R Kannan. Those covered in the additional sample collection include secondary contacts and suspects in the containment zones. Stating that the district’s optimal testing capacity is around 1,000 he added that the remaining samples are sent to other districts through tie-ups with labs. It could take a few more days to clear the backlog. Kannan said the government has asked to reduce the backlog to 24 hours. Meanwhile Tuticorin saw the highest single-day jump in cases on Wednesday. “There are around 30 to 35 containment streets in the district spread across three pockets – Tuticorin city, Kovilpatti town and surrounding areas and Kayalpattinam. We were collecting 700 to 800 samples a day earlier this month. We increased it to 1,000 last week and are collecting 1,500 now,” he said. Tuticorin district collector Sandeep Nanduri said that the testing capacity of the district is around 1,500 a day. “There is no backlog of cases. We are equipped with three RT-PCR units and an RNA extractor. With this setup we can test up to 2,500 samples a day,” he said. He said that 10 lab technicians have been recruited and are getting trained. The testing capacity will be between 2,000 to 2,500 samples a day when they are at work by this weekend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/testing-up-as-cases-cross-4k-in-virudhunagar-tuticorin/articleshow/77117019.cms||M K Ananth
July 23, 2020||Dehradun||Army jawan who died in Ladakh cremated in his native village||Nainital: Hundreds of locals turned up for the last rites of the 24-year-old Army jawan who died on last Friday (July 17) in Ladakh. The jawan, identified as Dev Bahadur, was on patrol in Ladakh along the LAC when he tripped on a mine that killed him. Bahadur’s body was brought to his home in Kichha area of Udham Singh Nagar district by the Army jawans on Wednesday morning from where it was taken to the cremation site in an Army vehicle accompanied by several locals. “A military truck carried Bahadur’s body to the cremation site. All along the way, we were joined by hundreds of locals who held tricolour in their hands and shouted slogans,” said Krishna Bahadur, Dev’s elder brother and an Army Jawan himself. As reported by TOI earlier, Bahadur had joined the Indian Army in 2017 and after initial posting in Ranikhet, he was transferred to Ladakh where he served as a constable in the Gorkha regiment. Bahadur’s family was informed of his death by the gram pradhan of the village on Saturday. “The pradhan got a call from the Army at around 10:30 pm. He came to our house and informed us that Dev had died after tripping on a mine. We have also been informed that Dev was patrolling the area and clearing the road as the snow had just melted in the area. He was with his unit when the blast went off,” added Krishna Bahadur, Dev’s brother. The local MLA Rajesh Shukla also accompanied Bahadur’s family to the cremation site. He said, “The entire country stands firm with the bereaved family. We extend our condolences to the family. The nation is indebted to Dev Bahadur for his ultimate sacrifice,” said MLA Shukla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/army-jawan-who-died-in-ladakh-cremated-in-his-native-village/articleshow/77114303.cms||Prashant Jha
July 23, 2020||Nashik||Number of contacts traced to go up from 23 to 32 in Nashik||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), in order to break the chain of coronavirus infection, has decided to increase the number of contacts of every Covid-19 patient traced from 23 to 32. This includes high- and low-risk contacts.An order in this regard has been issued to the civic officials by municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game. Moreover, the NMC has also started antigen tests to identify more suspected cases.“Earlier, we used to trace around 23 contacts of each positive patient and send their swab samples for testing. Now, we have changed the policy and have decided to trace more contacts to break the chain of coronavirus,” an NMC official said. “We have decided to track down 30 to 32 risk contacts of each patient. This will help us curb the spread of Covid-19 in the city. Moreover, we have also increased the antigen tests for early detection of risk contacts,” he added.The civic body has also changed the process of taking the name of the close contacts from the patients. “Earlier, we used to track down the high/low-risk contacts after a patient had tested positive. But we have observed that patients often come under pressure after testing positive and are unable to remember the people they had come in contact with,” the official said. “Now, we have also changed our policy in this regard. We have decided to take an affidavit from the suspected patient before the antigen or RT-PCR tests. The affidavit will include the names of risk contacts who had come in close contact with the positive patient,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/number-of-contacts-traced-to-go-up-from-23-to-32-in-nashik/articleshow/77114305.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 23, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Barabati, Nehru stadiums 1st in state to be turned into Covid care centres||Cuttack: The areas under Cuttack Municipal Corporation (CMC) saw the highest single-day spike of 54 Covid cases on Wednesday, forcing the administration to come up with new centres to house patients. Accordingly, the CMC has decided to use Barabati Stadium and the Jawaharlal Nehru Indoor Stadium as Covid Care Centres. This is the first time that the state has decided to turn stadiums into Covid care facilities. CMC commissioner Ananya Das and a team of officials visited the two stadiums on Wednesday to take stock of the situation. “Initially, we are planning to set up a 100-bed centre on the Barabati Stadium premises. As of now, 75 beds have been installed in the air conditioned corporate boxes at the stadium. The areas have been sanitised and well equipped with washrooms,” Das said. “Jawaharlal Nehru Indoor stadium will be equipped with 150 beds. We have already started installing the beds and work is going on in full swing and it will be soon ready for use,” she added. Four doctors would be engaged in each of the centres and at least 30 paramedics each would take care of the patients, the commissioner said. “Low-risk asymptomatic patients with no underlying health conditions will be admitted in these Covid care centres. Doctors and nurses will be there to take care of the patients round-the-clock,” she stated. A sensitive zone including facilities like pulse oximeter and glucometer will be provided in the centre to keep tabs on the patients’ health status. Apart from Barabati and Jawaharlal Nehru Indoor Stadium, three more Covid care centres will be opened in L&T Gopalpur (107 beds), Odisha State Housing Board, Bidyadharpur (98 beds) and on the premises of Odisha Administrative Tribunal (220 beds), a CMC official said. Meanwhile, the district on Wednesday reported 56 new cases, out of which 54 are from the city limits alone. The other two cases belong to Tangi and Bentkar areas of the district. Among the 54 positive in the city, two are local contacts, 11 from institutional quarantine centres and 41 were in home isolation. Out of the 41 home quarantine cases, 32 are from the Khatbin Sahi alone, with eight from Parida Sahi of Shankarpur area. The detection of 32 positive cases from one locality has put the city on the edge. Both Khatbin Sahi and Parida Sahi have been declared containment zones. A CMC official said the 32 infected in Khatbin Sahi had attended the last rites of a deceased person in the area, whose swab samples later turned out to be positive. Contact tracing and active surveillance have been initiated in the area. A team of CMC official has been engaged to carry out sanitisation. “More swab samples will be collected from family members of those who tested positive,” the official added. All entry and exit points have been sealed and police have been deployed to monitor movement of people. The 54 fresh cases have pushed city’s Covid count to 452. With eight deaths and 225 recoveries, the city now has 219 active cases. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/barabati-nehru-stadiums-1st-in-state-to-be-turned-into-covid-care-centres/articleshow/77115557.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Surgery saves Tuticorin boy who fell from tree, fractured skull||TUTICORIN: More than a dozen broken pieces of skull were removed from the brain of a 13-year-old boy who was badly injured after falling down from a tree at Sayalkudi in Tuticorin district on Tuesday. “There was a large wound about 13 cm long 5 cm wide and 4 cm deep exposing the brain, contaminated with stones and mud,” dean of Thoothukudi medical college hospital C Revathi Balan told TOI. The boy, M Ramesh, is the younger son of B Muniyasamy, 38, a head load worker and Thangalakshmi, 34, a daily wage labourer of Kamarajapuram in Sayalkudi. Ramesh who completed 7th standard, his elder brother Selvamani who completed 8th standard and their friend went to pluck Jamun fruits from a tree about a kilometre far from their house. Ramesh climbed on to the tree to pluck the fruits and the two other boys were on the ground. Ramesh slipped from a height of about 16 feet and fell head down on a boundary stone, resulting in the severe injury around 2.15 pm. Since there was nobody close by, the boys had cried for help and ran to their village and alerted the parents. They took him to Sayalkudi primary health centre, from where he was referred to the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital. “The boy was conscious when he was picked up from Sayalkudi at 2.22 pm. Emergency medical technician K Tamilarasan and pilot M Vasanthakumar positioned and immobilised his head to avert damage to the brain. With oxygen support and normal saline and ringer’s saline he was safely taken to the Thoothukudi hospital (72 km away) at 5.10 pm,” district manager of the EMRI 108 ambulance service R Ranjith said. Hospital dean Revathi said that a CT scan of the brain showed broken bone pieces inside the brain and a blood clot. “For surgical investigations and necessary procedures the child was shifted to the operation theatre at 9 pm. The clots, stones and broken bone pieces were removed from the brain in the surgery that lasted about 2 hours. He recovered well after surgery,” she added. The surgery was performed by neurosurgeon Raja S Vignesh under the guidance of professor Ganapathy Vel Kannan and anaesthesiologist Inbarasu under the leadership of professor Palramakrishnan. “The wound was covered with skin and later a titanium mesh cranioplasty will be done to makeup the broken pieces of skull,” the dean said. On Wednesday, he was conscious and even had two idlies for breakfast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/boy-survives-fractured-skull-from-fall-after-surgery/articleshow/77117017.cms||M K Ananth
July 23, 2020||Agra||UPSBCL starts repairing Ambedkar Bridge in Agra||AGRA: The Uttar Pradesh State Bridge Corporation Limited has finally started repairing of Ambedkar Bridge over the Yamuna, while divisional commissioner Anil Kumar has sought a report from UPSBCL project manager on frequent damages taking place on the bridge. The commissioner also sought to know as to why the damaged bridge was not repaired before the commencement of monsoon, and ordered the chief engineer of the Public Works Department (PWD) to conduct a technical investigation on the bridge's condition and submit a report. On Monday, TOI had reported about the poor condition of the bridge that developed a 10 cm gap between joints due to lack of proper maintenance. Besides, the 650-meter-long bridge is also dotted by several potholes and the lintel, too, was lying exposed at several sections. The condition of the bridge worsened after the recent rainfall. Kumar said, “UPSBCL has been directed to repair the bridge in a time-bound manner. The PWD chief engineer has also been directed to conduct a technical investigation on the bridge's condition and present a report.” UPSBCL project manager Vikram Singh said, “The gaps are being filled, while micro concrete chips will be used to cover the exposed lintel. The movement of traffic on the damaged portion of the bridge has been restricted for major repairing work. The entire work will be completed within seven days.” Every day, around 15,000 vehicles pass through the bridge that connects the Yamuna Expressway with the city. Vehicles going towards Gwalior Road also cross the bridge. Besides, tourists coming to the city also use the bridge to visit the Taj Mahal and other monuments. The bridge was built during the regime of Mayawati, who laid the foundation stone on October 9, 2008. After two years, the bridge — which came up at an estimated cost of around Rs 30 crore — was thrown open to the public. Within a year, however, it developed a major crack, following which the UPSBCL had suspended the traffic for seven days to fix the damage. The bridge has been repaired for, at least, six times in the past 10 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/upsbcl-starts-repairing-ambedkar-bridge-says-will-fix-it-in-7days/articleshow/77114315.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Dehradun||CM meets Mahant Narendra Giri, akharas to be provided funds in form of grant for necessary arrangements||Dehradun: A delegation of Akhara Parishad members led by Mahant Narendra Giri met chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat to discuss Kumbh preparations on Wednesday. In the meeting, it was decided that the Kumbh would be held on their stipulated dates and its format would be announced in February next year keeping in mind the Covid-19 situation at that time. During the meeting, CM Rawat said that funds for the necessary arrangements would be made available to the Akharas in the form of grants. The Akhara Parishad members requested the CM to nominate an officer to check the quality of work done with the funds given to the Akharas. Giri asked the CM to name the ghats after the name of deities followed by the 13 akharas. He also requested the CM to rename the sectors to be made for Kumbh after the Akharas. CM Rawat said that the Kumbh to be held in Haridwar in 2021 will be held at the scheduled time. The format of Kumbh would be finalised after going through the Covid-19 scenario in February next year, said the CM. He added that all permanent construction works in Haridwar will be completed before Kumbh. The CM pointed out that the construction of bridges and roads connecting Haridwar is being done at a quick pace. He assured the members of the Akhara Council that their problems will be resolved quickly. Along with the reconstruction of the roads connecting the akharas, special attention will be paid to remove encroachments and cleanliness, assured the CM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-meets-mahant-narendra-giri-akharas-to-be-provided-funds-in-form-of-grant-for-necessary-arrangements/articleshow/77114323.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab gets 414 Covid-19 cases & 6 deaths, crosses 11,000||CHANDIGARH: The number of new Covid-19 cases continued to mount in Punjab on Wednesday as the state recorded its highest single-day spike of 414 new infections, including six deaths. The state’s tally for total cases rose to 11,301 and the casualty count to 269. Also, 11 police officials were among new patients and 251 patients were discharged after they recovered from the virus, taking the number of people who have recovered from the virus to 7,641. Two duplicate entries recorded on July 21 were deleted. In Jalandhar, additional sessions judge Sachin Goel tested positive. Hoshiarpur reported the highest number of new cases, 81, of which 78 were contacts of positive cases. Ludhiana got 73 new cases. At the time this report was filed, the health department was yet to work out the details of each case. Patiala, the home district of Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, reported 50 cases, of which 27 were contacts of positive cases amd the health department could not trace transmission history in 19 cases. In Jalandhar, 41 people tested positive followed by Mohali, where the health department traced 30 positive people. In Fazilka, 25 people were found infected, 20 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 17 in Faridkot, 16 in Sangrur and 14 in Amritsar, eight each in Nawanshahr and Kapurthala, seven in Tarn Taran, five each in Barnala and Mansa, four in Moga, three each in Ferozepur and Ropar, two in Mukstar, and one each in Bathinda and Gurdaspur. In all, 13 patients were on oxygen support and three admitted in the ICU. Two patients were on ventilator support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-gets-414-cases-6-deaths-crosses-11k/articleshow/77116438.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab gets 414 Covid-19 cases & 6 deaths, crosses 11,000||CHANDIGARH: The number of new Covid-19 cases continued to mount in Punjab on Wednesday as the state recorded its highest single-day spike of 414 new infections, including six deaths. The state’s tally for total cases rose to 11,301 and the casualty count to 269. Also, 11 police officials were among new patients and 251 patients were discharged after they recovered from the virus, taking the number of people who have recovered from the virus to 7,641. Two duplicate entries recorded on July 21 were deleted. In Jalandhar, additional sessions judge Sachin Goel tested positive. Hoshiarpur reported the highest number of new cases, 81, of which 78 were contacts of positive cases. Ludhiana got 73 new cases. At the time this report was filed, the health department was yet to work out the details of each case. Patiala, the home district of Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, reported 50 cases, of which 27 were contacts of positive cases amd the health department could not trace transmission history in 19 cases. In Jalandhar, 41 people tested positive followed by Mohali, where the health department traced 30 positive people. In Fazilka, 25 people were found infected, 20 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 17 in Faridkot, 16 in Sangrur and 14 in Amritsar, eight each in Nawanshahr and Kapurthala, seven in Tarn Taran, five each in Barnala and Mansa, four in Moga, three each in Ferozepur and Ropar, two in Mukstar, and one each in Bathinda and Gurdaspur. In all, 13 patients were on oxygen support and three admitted in the ICU. Two patients were on ventilator support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/punjab-gets-414-cases-6-deaths-crosses-11k/articleshow/77118890.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Kanpur||Vikas aide Jayant Bajpai booked for fake car pass||Kanpur: The police on Wednesday booked slain gangster Vikas Dubey’s aide Jaikant alias Jai Bajpai and Rahul Singh for using a fake secretariat pass with MLA written on it. “An FIR in this regard has been lodged at Kakadeo police station under sections 420/467/468/471 and 120 B against Jaikant Bajpai and his aide Rahul Singh,” informed media cell of the city police. To recall, Jai Bajpai had already been arrested along with one other of his aide Prashant Shukla and sent to jail on charges of conspiring ambush with Dubey. Also, to recall, the police soon after the Bikru incident had seized three luxury vehicles, which did not have registration number plates on them, in Kakadeo area of the city. Investigation, howeve,r had later revealed that the vehicles including an Audi car and a Fortuner, were purchased by local businessman Jai Bajpai but registered under different names. The seized Fortuner vehicle, registered in the name of Jai’s aide Rahul Singh of Chakarpur Mandi area, had a fake secretariat pass with MLA written on it. Police spokesperson further informed TOI that during investigation, it came to fore that pass was fake and procured using computer software and the same was pasted on the windscreen of the Fortuner vehicle. “Further investigations are on in this regard,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/vikas-aide-jayant-bajpai-booked-for-fake-car-pass/articleshow/77117027.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Madurai||Man hacked to death for illicit affair with sister-in-law||Tuticorin: A 27-year-old man, who developed an extramarital affair with his wife’s sister, was hacked to death by her husband and three of his accomplices at KTC Nagar in Tuticorin district on Tuesday night.The victim, Prem Kumar, an autorickshaw driver and the prime accused Vigneswaran, 28, a fruit vendor had married siblings. Vigneswaran married the elder sister. Kumar developed an affair with Vigneswaran’s wife resulting in frequent quarrels between them.Inquires revealed that a few days ago, Kumar took the woman to his house which came to Vigneswaran’s notice. On Tuesday night, Vigneswaran, his brother and two others went to K T C Nagar where an argument broke out between them. Vigneswaran then attacked Kumar with a machete and as he fled the place the gang chased and murdered him.The body was sent to the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital for autopsy. “The victim suffered more than 10 cut injuries and died on the spot,” superintendent of police of Tuticorin district, S Jayakumar who conducted preliminary inquiries said.Sipcot registered a case and five special teams have been formed to nab the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-hacked-to-death-for-illicit-affair-with-sister-in-law/articleshow/77117030.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Gurgaon||Covid-19: Haryana tally hits 28,000, death toll rises to 372 as 8 succumb||CHANDIGARH: Haryana reported 724 new Covid-19 cases and eight deaths due to the virus, taking its overall tally to 28,186 and casualty count to 372. In what appears to be a matter of relief, the state had 745 recoveries, which took overall recoveries to 21,697. As the recovery rate reached 76.98%, the state has 6,117 patients who are under treatment. Of them, 190 are said to be in a critical condition, with 155 of them on oxygen support. Apart from NCR districts, several cases have been reported from Hisar, Panchkula, Ambala and Karnal districts. Faridabad got maximum 174 new patients and two deaths. This took the overall total of the district to 6,853 with 114 deaths. The district has 3,128 active patients. Faridabad is followed by Gurugram, which continued to top the state tally in districts. It had 149 new patients and two deaths, which took the overall tally to 8,127 with 118 deaths. The district has 1,328 active patients. Hisar registered third highest 67 patients, and its total rose to 734. Panchkula had 65 new patients, which took district total to 347. Ambala crossed 1,000 mark as the district had 55 new patients and one death. There the total has gone to 1,052 cases. Karnal had 53 new patients and its total rose to 743. A death each was reported from Jhajjar, Nuh and Sirsa too. There were 35 new patients in Mahindergarh, 28 in Palawal, 21 in Panipat, 17 each in Kaithal and Jhajjar, 15 in Nuh, 13 in Rohtak, seven in Kurukshetra, three each in Sirsa and Bhiwani, two in Yamuanangar, and one in Fatehaband, Jind, Rewari, Sonipat and Charkhi Dadri. The state’s testing rate rose to18,833 as total 4,77,412 persons had been tested so far. The doubling rate remained stable at 23 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-tally-hits-28k-death-toll-rises-to-372-as-8-succumb/articleshow/77120497.cms||Manvir Saini
July 23, 2020||Kochi||Plea for CBI probe into recent rows dismissed||KOCHI: The high court on Wednesday dismissed a petition seeking a CBI or NIA probe into the gold smuggling scam, Sprinklr deal, BevQ app contract, and e-mobility consultancy projects in which the chief minister and senior IAS officer M Sivasankar are allegedly involved. A division bench of Chief Justice S Manikumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly considered a PIL filed by Michael Varghese of Cherthala through advocate Mathews J Nedumpara. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Sivasankar, and Swapna Suresh were named as opposite parties. In the judgment, the court said the petition does not satisfy the requirements of a public interest litigation (PIL) in light of the principles of law laid down by the Supreme Court and the high court. Advocate general CP Sudhakara Prasad had contended that the materials made available to the court by the petitioner should instil confidence in the court. The allegation that a close relative of the chief minister has connection with the Sprinklr deal is vague, the AG had argued. The court said the petitioner has no evidence or material and relies upon the statement of the opposition leader. No complaint has been filed before seeking a court directive for an investigation by the CBI or NIA, the judgment said. The petition had said the respondents were emboldened to carry on their abuse of power to make quick money as no criminal case was registered in connection with Sprinklr deal. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/plea-for-cbi-probe-into-recent-rows-dismissed/articleshow/77115591.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Haryana tally hits 28,000, death toll rises to 372 as 8 succumb||CHANDIGARH: Haryana reported 724 new Covid-19 cases and eight deaths due to the virus, taking its overall tally to 28,186 and casualty count to 372. In what appears to be a matter of relief, the state had 745 recoveries, which took overall recoveries to 21,697. As the recovery rate reached 76.98%, the state has 6,117 patients who are under treatment. Of them, 190 are said to be in a critical condition, with 155 of them on oxygen support. Apart from NCR districts, several cases have been reported from Hisar, Panchkula, Ambala and Karnal districts. Faridabad got maximum 174 new patients and two deaths. This took the overall total of the district to 6,853 with 114 deaths. The district has 3,128 active patients. Faridabad is followed by Gurugram, which continued to top the state tally in districts. It had 149 new patients and two deaths, which took the overall tally to 8,127 with 118 deaths. The district has 1,328 active patients. Hisar registered third highest 67 patients, and its total rose to 734. Panchkula had 65 new patients, which took district total to 347. Ambala crossed 1,000 mark as the district had 55 new patients and one death. There the total has gone to 1,052 cases. Karnal had 53 new patients and its total rose to 743. A death each was reported from Jhajjar, Nuh and Sirsa too. There were 35 new patients in Mahindergarh, 28 in Palawal, 21 in Panipat, 17 each in Kaithal and Jhajjar, 15 in Nuh, 13 in Rohtak, seven in Kurukshetra, three each in Sirsa and Bhiwani, two in Yamuanangar, and one in Fatehaband, Jind, Rewari, Sonipat and Charkhi Dadri. The state’s testing rate rose to18,833 as total 4,77,412 persons had been tested so far. The doubling rate remained stable at 23 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-tally-hits-28k-death-toll-rises-to-372-as-8-succumb/articleshow/77116431.cms||Manvir Saini
July 23, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Work on RRTS corridor starts||NEW DELHI: The 82km Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut Regional Rapid Transit (RRTS) Corridor has started to take shape. The first segment of the high-speed corridor, expected to reduce travel time from the capital to the UP city to an hour, is now visible at Guldhar near Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh. The launching, joining and lowering of the first segmental span was carried out by NCR Transport Corporation (NCRTC) — the executing agency — on Wednesday. “Various segments are lifted and joined together to make a viaduct. There are a total of 12 segments in this first span of which, 34 metres was successfully launched and joined,” a NCRTC spokesperson said. The construction activity will now be moving towards Ghaziabad. “The segments of the corridor are being cast at the Vasundhara casting yard. RRTS viaduct will have a design speed capability of 180 kmph,” he added. NCRTC is taking all the safety measures to ensure that the work does not affect the public or the moving traffic. “The area below is barricaded for the movement of workers and temporary staircases are being used by them,” the spokesman claimed. While work on the 17km section between Sahibabad and Duhai is a priority, construction activity on the 32km section between Duhai and Shatabdi Nagar in Meerut is on full swing too, he said. NCRTC’s managing director Vinay Kumar Singh inspected the construction work on the stretch between Sahibabad and Ghaziabad. He advised NCRTC to take necessary precautions for Covid-19 as specified in the NCRTC-issued standard operating procedure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/work-on-rrts-corridor-starts/articleshow/77116440.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 23, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha to reduce school curriculum in current session||BHUBANESWAR: The Odisha government has decided to reduce the school curriculum for the current academic session as the prolonged lockdown due to the pandemic has led to the closure of schools. An expert committee has been formed to take decisions on the curriculum. National boards like the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and the Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) have already reduced their curriculum by 25% to 30% for the current academic session. “We were waiting for the chief minister’s approval on reducing the school curriculum. The expert committees formed will decide upon the chapters to be removed,” said school and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Das. The percentage of syllabus to be removed depends upon the reopening of schools, he said. “The schools will remain shut till August 31 and we cannot predict the situation after that. So the course load to be removed will depend on the number of days of the academic session that will be left for continuation of classroom teaching,” Das said. The minister said the State Council of Education Research and Training (SCERT) will decide on the rationalisation of curriculum for Class I to Class VIII and the Council of Higher Secondary Education (CHSE) will decide on the course for Class XI and XII in the state. Das pointed out that unlike CBSE, the state government does not want to get into any controversy over selection of chapters to be removed for the current academic session. “It is certainly a welcome decision by the state government to rationalise the course curriculum. If things don’t get normalised in the next couple of months than we suggest the government to reschedule the current academic session and restart it afresh from December, so that children need not miss anything from the curriculum,” said Basudev Bhatt, chairman of Odisha Abhibhabak Mahasangha. However, students feel it would be better if they know in advance the chapters that need to be studied. “Even though we are not going to school, we are continuing our studies at home. If we know about the chapters to be studied, it will be easier for us,” said Tarun Parida, a Class X student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/odisha-to-prune-school-course-for-current-session/articleshow/77115565.cms||Minati Singha
July 23, 2020||Madurai||Two CBI sleuths probing custody deaths test positive||Madurai: The CBI investigation into the custodial deaths of traders P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks in Sathankulam hit a roadblock on Wednesday when two members of the team tested positive for Covid-19. Though they had taken three former Sathankulam police personnel – constables Vail Muthu, Chelladurai and head constable Samidurai – in custody for three days till Thursday evening, they were hurriedly lodged in jail on Wednesday afternoon.Sources said the infected personnel were a 29-year-old sub inspector and a 47-year-old constable. They were tested at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) on Monday after they showed symptoms. On Wednesday, it was informed that they had tested positive and were taken to a quarantine facility in Madurai. The CBI team wound up the investigation and also produced the three constables they had in their custody on Monday evening before the CJM court.CJM T V Hemanandakumar remanded them in judicial custody till August 5, following which they were lodged at the Madurai central prison. The trio was earlier subjected to medical examination at GRH. Prison sources said the trio had been isolated as a precautionary measure. Meanwhile, three arrested policemen — Muthuraj, Murugan and Thomas Francis — moved the Madurai CBI court seeking bail.The CBI team frequently visited Tuticorin and spent hours at the Sathankulam police station, house of Jeyaraj and Beniks, Sathankulam government hospital, Kovilpatti sub jail and government hospital. Those quizzed include kin of the victims, former police personnel, staff of the two government hospitals and staff and inmates of the sub jail.A senior police officer said that local police personnel at Sathankulam had left the station when the CBI came to pave the way for free investigation. The station is being regularly disinfected and swabs collected from 10 police personnel who were in contact with the CBI, including those called for inquiry, and they were asked to be under quarantine. District collector Sandeep Nanduri said that all the close and high risk contacts of those who tested positive will be traced and tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/two-cbi-sleuths-probing-custody-deaths-test-positive/articleshow/77117021.cms||M K Ananth
July 23, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Jyotiraditya Scindia, Sumer Singh Solanki take oath as Rajya Sabha members||BHOPAL: BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia on Wednesday took oath as the member of Rajya Sabha from Madhya Pradesh. Scindia was among 45 newly-elected members of the Upper House, including Sumer Singh Solanki, a RSS worker from Khargone, who were administered oath by vice-president Vehkaiah Naidu. Scindia has thanked the BJP leadership for giving the opportunity to represent the party in the Rajya Sabha. “I took oath as a member of the Rajya Sabha. I thank the state BJP workers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, national president JP Nadda, home minister Amit Shah, MP chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, top BJP leaders and MLAs of party for giving me this opportunity,” tweeted Scindia after the oath. He also congratulated other members and tweeted, "My heartiest congratulations to all the MPs who took oath in Rajya Sabha today. I am confident that together we will raise our voice for the development of the country and our state, along with enhancing the dignity of the Upper House of Parliament." This is Scindia’s first stint in the Rajya Sabha. He served as a member of the Lok Sabha since 2002 from Guna in Madhya Pradesh. He lost the Guna seat to BJP’s Krishna Pal Singh Yadav in the Lok Sabha elections last year. Before oath, Scindia met senior Congress leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad and Digvijaya Singh. He greeted the two leaders and then proceeded towards the dais for oath. Many BJP leaders including chief minister Chouhan, state chief VD Sharma, union minister Thawqar Chand Gehlot congratulated Scindia for taking oath as a member. Earlier in the day, Scindia also referred to the foundation laying ceremony for the Ram Temple in Ayodhya. He said after a long struggle the wish of devotees will be fulfilled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/scindia-solanki-take-oath-as-rs-members/articleshow/77116433.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Madurai||Madurai’s arts and science colleges receive record number of applications||Madurai: Arts and Science colleges in Madurai have been flooded with applications outnumbering the total number of applications received by them last year already.Secretary of Thiagarajar College, K Hari Thiagarajan said that while the demand for arts and science courses have always been there, they were seeing an increase this year. They have received 16,000 online applications already in just five days since the results were out.“As always, there is a big demand for the BCom courses, and BSc (computer science courses),” he said and added that home science and nutrition courses which were once looked down upon are in much demand now. According to the college’s principal, D Pandiaraja, they have 1,400 seats in UG courses and they have already received over 16,000 applications and 20,000 applications on the whole.L Kaleeswari, a parent who is desperate to get admission for her daughter in this college said, “If it was a normal day, I would have been the first in the queue to get the application.”The American college will definitely surpass its last year’s applications of 28,000 by over 10,000 if the same trend continues, says principal of the college, Dr M Davamani Christober. The principal added that they received 16,000 applications in just five days.This college was among the first to introduce the BSc course in data science and they received 120 applications for the 40 seats. “Surprisingly there is also a demand for BSc microbiology and food science courses. It looks like it has a lot to do with the demand for jobs that have surfaced due to this Covid-19 crisis,” he said. “Admissions are purely on merit and we strictly adhere to the quota system. From the look of things all the seats in all the courses are expected to get filled up this year,” he added.Principal of the Sri Meenakshi Govt Arts College for Women, Dr S Vanathi said that last year they received 10,000 applications for the 1,230 UG seats in 15 courses. “This year with online admissions, we expect the number of applications to increase,” she said.Meanwhile, many parents whose children have performed well in the examinations want their children to bag seats in the local colleges, as it would keep them closer to home during this crisis period, which is something all of them want.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurais-arts-and-science-colleges-receive-record-number-of-applications/articleshow/77117031.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Nashik||Dist records 369 cases &8 casualties||Nashik: A total of 369 new Covid-19 cases, including 286 in Nashik city alone, were reported between Tuesday and Wednesday, taking the tally of positive cases to 10,394. Eight deaths were also reported due to the contagion across the district. Five of the eight deaths were reported in Nashik city. The death toll has now increased to 420, including 221 deaths in the city. Moreover, 400 patients (315 from Nashik city) were discharged from various hospitals across the district on Wednesday. Currently, the district has a total of 2,604 active cases of which 1,535 are from the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dist-records-369-cases-8-casualties/articleshow/77114320.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Kochi||Curfew in Kerala's Aluva cluster from Thursday||KOCHI: Curfew will be imposed in Aluva cluster from Thursday onwards in view of rising number of Covid cases. Edathala, Chengamanad, Alangad, Kadungalloor, Karumalloor, Choornikkara and Aluva municipality falls in Aluva cluster where contact cases are rising. Sale of wholesale items will be allowed between 7am and 9am and retail sale from 10am to 2pm. There will be no restriction on the functioning of medical shops. Minister V S Sunil Kumar said special attention will be given to convents and care homes where elderly people are residing. Fish market at Muvattupuzha will be closed. “The health department has found that the virus spread in Aluva area is more severe,” he said. He also said that all private hospitals, which were closed after contact cases started reporting from the area, should be made fully functional from Thursday after disinfection. Private hospitals, where critical Covid patients are undergoing treatment, should continue their services. Shifting of these patients to the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kalamassery, can be done only after informing the MCH authorities. Though exemptions have been provided for weddings and funerals, the conduct of such events should be intimated to the revenue and police personnel in the respective areas. As many as 3,752 beds have been arranged in 72 first-line Covid treatment centres in the district so far. Meanwhile, the district reported 92 new positive cases including 82 contact ones on Wednesday. As many as 15 cases including nine from a convent have been reported from Keezhmad panchayat. A total of 13 cases have been reported from Aluva cluster and one from Chellanam cluster. A total of 11 contact cases have been reported from two convents, each situated at Kuzhuppilly and Thrikkakara. As many as 18 people have been discharged and 987 are undergoing treatment. A total of 701 samples have been sent for testing on Wednesday. Results of 1,263 samples are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/curfew-in-aluva-cluster-from-today/articleshow/77115586.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab gets 414 Covid-19 cases & 6 deaths, crosses 11,000||CHANDIGARH: The number of new Covid-19 cases continued to mount in Punjab on Wednesday as the state recorded its highest single-day spike of 414 new infections, including six deaths. The state’s tally for total cases rose to 11,301 and the casualty count to 269. Also, 11 police officials were among new patients and 251 patients were discharged after they recovered from the virus, taking the number of people who have recovered from the virus to 7,641. Two duplicate entries recorded on July 21 were deleted. In Jalandhar, additional sessions judge Sachin Goel tested positive. Hoshiarpur reported the highest number of new cases, 81, of which 78 were contacts of positive cases. Ludhiana got 73 new cases. At the time this report was filed, the health department was yet to work out the details of each case. Patiala, the home district of Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, reported 50 cases, of which 27 were contacts of positive cases amd the health department could not trace transmission history in 19 cases. In Jalandhar, 41 people tested positive followed by Mohali, where the health department traced 30 positive people. In Fazilka, 25 people were found infected, 20 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 17 in Faridkot, 16 in Sangrur and 14 in Amritsar, eight each in Nawanshahr and Kapurthala, seven in Tarn Taran, five each in Barnala and Mansa, four in Moga, three each in Ferozepur and Ropar, two in Mukstar, and one each in Bathinda and Gurdaspur. In all, 13 patients were on oxygen support and three admitted in the ICU. Two patients were on ventilator support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/punjab-gets-414-cases-6-deaths-crosses-11k/articleshow/77118889.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Rourkela man dies in Kolkata as hospitals refuse to admit him||Rourkela: A 39-year-old man from Rourkela serving as manager in a leading corporate house in Kolkata, died on his way to the third hospital, after two of the hospitals refused to admit him due to unavailability of beds on Tuesday morning. His Covid test conducted after his death confirmed that he was infected. Officials of Kolkata Municipal Corporation have reportedly refused to cremate him as his Aadhar card had Odisha address and he is not a resident of Kolkata. Family sources said Ananta Narayan Bhol, son of Bijay Kumar Bhol, of Nabakrushna Nagar was working with Tech Mahindra, Kolkata. He was staying alone in a rented house in New Town, Kolkata. He suffered from fever seven days back and consulted a local physician. On Tuesday morning, he collapsed after complaining of breathing difficulty following which one of his relatives rushed him to hospital. He was declared brought dead at the Rabindra Nath Tagore Hospital. He leaves behind wife and a four-year-old son, who stay in Rourkela. “After we came to know about his death, we wanted to bring his body back home. But were informed by the authorities that as per the recent Covid protocol, Covid test would be conducted and if found negative only then the body can be sent to Rourkela,” said Bijay, father of the deceased. Sources said when his swab sample tested positive, his family was informed that his body would be cremated in Kolkata as per Covid protocol. “We were informed that he would be cremated by the Kolkata Municipal Corporation officials,” added Bijay. On Wednesday, the KMC authorities asked Bijay to send Ananta’s Aadhar card that was required for the cremation. “We were told that the cremation process has been halted since his Aadhar Card had Rourkela address,” said Bijay. Hospital sources said the patient had tested positive after he was brought dead to the hospital. An autopsy was conducted and the body was handed over to police on Wednesday morning. “Now, as per the norms in Bengal, his cremation can’t take place at a normal crematorium. The body has to be taken to a designated crematorium and that may take some days,” hospital sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/rourkela-man-dies-in-kolkata-as-hospitals-refuse-to-admit-him/articleshow/77115582.cms||Mihir Ray
July 23, 2020||Madurai||More contacts of patients now testing positive in Madurai city||Madurai: A majority of Covid-19 cases emerging in Madurai Corporation limits in the past few days, are contacts of infected people, and unlike earlier, most of them are asymptomatic since they are tested early and put on treatment, civic body officials have said.Since most cases emerged from police personnel and their contacts and residential areas, the civic body had planned a meeting with representatives of resident welfare associations to insist them not to step out of their houses unless necessary.“A few weeks ago, around 60% of the cases were symptomatic. This has now come down to 40%. Around 60% of these cases are through contacts. Except for those aged more than 60 years, others are allowed to undergo home quarantine provided they have separate room with toilet,” a health official said.The increase in number of fever camps has played a vital role in managing the situation. Although testing has increased, the number of positive cases has been declining. Corporation alone lifts around 2,700 samples each day. Apart from this, private labs and government hospitals also collect samples, he said.“Testing is now being done on the first day of fever even if the person has not come in contact with any positive patient or has any travel history. The number of people visiting private hospitals with fever, has also come down dramatically, since they are detected during the door-to-door fever surveillance,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/more-contacts-of-patients-now-testing-positive-in-madurai-city/articleshow/77117052.cms||V Devanathan
July 23, 2020||Shimla||With 33 new Covid-19 infections, Himachal count now 1,697||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh reported 33 Covid-19 positive cases on Wednesday even as six patients from Kangra district recovered. Of the new cases, 10 are from Solan district, seven from Sirmaur, six from Kangra, four from Chamba and three each from Mandi and Una. The state now has 1,697 positive cases, of which 587 are active while 1,083 patients have recovered. So far, 15 cases have migrated out of the state, 10 have died of Covid-19, while two deaths of patients from Chamba and Shimla district occurred due to non-Covid reasons. A total of 1,21,728 persons have been tested for Covid-19, of which 1,17,727 have tested negative while results of 2,304 samples are awaited. Solan district has maximum 391 positive cases, of which 249 are active, 136 have recovered while 6 have migrated out of state. Kangra has the second highest number of 359 positive cases, of which 53 are active, 302 have recovered, two have died while two have migrated out of state. Hamirpur district has 285 positive cases, of which 12 are active, 270 have recovered while three have died, while Una district has 167 positive cases, of which 42 are active and 125 have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/with-33-new-infections-himachal-count-now-1697/articleshow/77116443.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Shimla||After scare, Jai Ram Thakur in self quarantine||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur quarantined himself after a deputy secretary in his office at the state secretariat tested positive for Covid-19. A BJP leader, who too tested positive, had also met the chief minister earlier. Later in the evening, state additional chief secretary (health) R D Dhiman said Thakur, his wife and two family members tested negative for Covid. Samples of 36 people, including the family of the chief minister and his personal staff besides other officials are being taken. Following the Covid protocol, Thakur cancelled all his appointments and returned to his residence for sel-quarantine. Sources said that a BJP leader from Mandi, who has tested positive, had also visited the chief minister’s office and residence and Indira Gandhi Medical College recently. (With PTI inputs)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/after-scare-thakur-in-self-quarantine/articleshow/77116449.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Bhopal||Good idea to keep heart happy: CM on Nath’s CLP meet remarks||Bhopal: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday took a dig at the Congress for claiming that the next meeting of all MLAs will be held at Raj Bhawan while taking oath. Chouhan said that Congress' idea is good to keep the heart happy. State home minister Narottam Mishra also said that Congress' claim is merely to thwart the exodus of MLAs after two of its MLAs quit the old party. Chouhan's remark came in the wake of former chief minister Kamal Nath's claims that Congress is sure to win a majority in the upcoming by-polls on 26 seats in the state. Nath who held talks with the Congress lawmakers on Sunday evening to feel the pulse after the resignation of two MLAs - Sumitra Devi Kasdekar and Pradyumn Singh Lodhi - has stated that Congress will fight the election on the basis of works done in the state. "We are sure to return and form the government. The next meeting of all MLAs will be held at Raj Bhawan while taking oath," Nath is learnt to have said during the meeting.To Nath's claims, Chouhan used a humorous pun, "Dil ko beahlane ke liye Gaalib ye khyal achchha hai." (We know the reality of Paradise, but to keep the heart happy, this idea is good), Chouhan reacted to the queries by reporters in Gwalior, on Monday.Taking a jibe at the claims by the Congress leaders, state home minister Narottam Mishra said, "Congress leaders are talking loud only to thwart the exodus of old party's MLAs so that no more MLAs decide to quit. This is just to convince and confuse the lawmakers but, they are smarter."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/good-idea-to-keep-heart-happy-cm-on-naths-clp-meet-remarks/articleshow/77116446.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: 14-year-old rape victim delivers prematurely, baby dies a day later||TUTICORIN: A 14-year-old girl, who was raped by her father, gave birth to a premature baby girl in the Thoothukudi Government Medical College and Hospital on Monday. But the baby, weighing just 760g, died on Tuesday evening. The girl, who earlier suffered from low haemoglobin and other complexities, is recovering in hospital. The Class IX student from a village near Vilathikulam was raped several times by her 45-year-old father since December last year. She is his second wife’s daughter. The two wives of the man are siblings. “Her mother and relatives tried to terminate the pregnancy at home by medication from a local pharmacy but were not successful,” district child protection officer, B Jothikumar said. On July 15, she was taken to Pudur primary health centre by her mother for abortion. Since the foetus was nearly 24 weeks old, the girl was referred to the Thoothukudi MCH the same day. Based on her statement, the Vilathikulam all women police booked her father under 5(n), 5(l), 5(j)(ii) and 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act on July 16, and arrested him. “We were told that the baby suffered from breathing difficulties, and doctors were doubtful of its survival for more than a day,” Jothikumar said. The baby died around 5.30pm on Tuesday. While an abortion was considered risky because of the girl’s age and health condition, Jothikumar said efforts were taken to get the baby delivered. “The 14-year-old girl is also a child. She is constantly monitored by a team of doctors and paramedics under my supervision and Dr Mercy from the obstetrics and gynaecology department,” said hospital dean, C Revathy Balan. On complete recovery, she will be discharged and produced before the district child welfare committee to take a decision on helping her pursue her studies and accommodating her at a home for children. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/14-yr-old-rape-victim-delivers-prematurely-baby-dies-a-day-later/articleshow/77117045.cms||M K Ananth
July 23, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: ‘We queue up 4-5 hrs for bus seat; by train, it took 45 mins to office’||MUMBAI: Corona will kill us later. The government will take our lives before that,” said a protester at Nalasopara MSRTC depot on Wednesday. Commuters in the Dahisar-Virar stretch rely heavily on railways to travel to work and they form a crucial section of WR commuters. With bank loans and house rent, the working class in Vasai-Virar region were among the first to return to work when Unlock 1.0 was announced last month. Be it carrying out sanitization at a closed mall or a worker at a medical store, they make it to workplaces to keep monthly salaries coming in. “We are totally dependent on trains. The daily expenditure for bus leaves no money to buy even vegetables,” she said. She travels to her private office in Borivli as she does not enjoy the work-from-home facility. As not getting to work would mean letting go of her job, she had been boarding MSRTC buses, even if it means a long wait. While public sector and essential services staff are boarding special trains and maintaining social distancing, private sector employees are queuing up for four to five hours for a bus seat. “My train journey to Andheri took 45 minutes. Now, it takes two hours to get to office. Not to mention hours I spend waiting for a bus,” she said. A Nalasopara resident said many of them do not have ID cards. “They should allow me to board with my Aadhaar card. I have been working in a medical store for over a decade but don’t have a work ID,” said the resident, who has to reach his shop by 9am. Protesters said that while they are dependent on MSRTC and BEST buses, the cost of a bus ticket was pinching their pockets. “To reach my workplace at 9am, I have to leave home at 5am. And I have no guarantee of getting a bus,” said a local resident. A one-way ticket to Mumbai costs Rs 60-100 but a monthly or quarterly pass is economical. MSRTC MD Shekar Channe said trains work out cheaper but it was not possible to fill the gap created by lack of trains||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/we-queue-up-4-5-hrs-for-bus-seat-by-train-it-took-45-mins-to-office/articleshow/77115992.cms||Sandhya Nair
July 23, 2020||Nashik||Sai Satcharitrato be organised online||Nashik: The Sai Satcharitra Parayan Sohala and Gokulashtami will be celebrated together this year in Shirdi. This year, only a few people will be able to visit the temple while everyone else can witness the events online. The annual feature of Sai Satcharitra Parayan Sohala is where local artists participate to enact and relieve the life of Sai Baba. . This is organised during Shravan Pournima and Gokulashtami is celebrated eight days after it.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/sai-satcharitrato-be-organised-online/articleshow/77114332.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Goa||Goan doctor part of Oxford trials, says did to defeat disease||PANAJI: Nearly 12 years ago, when Dr Vikram Talaulikar moved to the UK after finishing his MD in gynaecology from Goa Medical College, he never thought he would be a part of the human trials for one of the most-awaited vaccines. “As a doctor and scientist, it was an honour for me to participate in this trial, contribute to science and join efforts to defeat this disease,” Talaulikar, an honorary senior clinical lecturer at the University College Hospital in London, told TOI. Panaji-born 38-year-old Talaulikar is one of the volunteers who has participated in the human trials for the vaccine against Covid-19 being developed by the Oxford Vaccine Group and was administered the vaccine on June 12. “It was important to consult my family and have their opinion before I agreed to participate. My parents backed me for the study. My wife Anuradha has been a strong source of support,” said Talaulikar, whose father practiced as a gynaecologist in Panaji and Santa Cruz for 40 years. “It is not because I am a doctor that I volunteered for it. I would have volunteered even if I wasn’t one,” he said. The trial is being conducted across several tertiary teaching hospitals in the UK, including University College Hospital in London. “The phase 1 and 2 trials are showing that this vaccine definitely induces antibodies (for immediate immunity) and T cell (for long term immunity) immune response against the virus. There are no safety concerns. If the phase 3 trials are successful, we should be getting a vaccine ready for use by the end of the year,” said Talaulikar. Since being administered the vaccine, Talaulikar, who lives with wife and daughter, has been following government guidelines on protecting each other and hasn’t experienced any side effects. Adequate social distance is maintained, hygiene is a must, while mask cannot be ignored, he said. “Few other volunteers have reported feeling flu-like symptoms and fever for the first 24 to 48 hours following administration of the vaccine, but I was lucky not to have those,” he said. As a doctor and scientist, the former Santa Cruz resident said he is proud to be part of such a landmark and important study. “Unless we can have enough participants vaccinated and potentially exposed to the risk of illness, we will not know whether the vaccine works,” he said. Apart from the weekly swabs and monthly blood tests to see his response to the infection/vaccine, Talaulikar goes about a normal life, which includes his duties as a doctor at the NHS clinic. “In most countries, transmission rates have slowed after the initial peak and if all the precautions are followed, we should be able to prevent a second wave of infections. “The virus is new, and we are still learning about it. So, until a vaccine is ready for use, the mantra will be ‘social distancing and hand hygiene’,” said Talaulikar. “Trials of vaccines have to follow strict safety protocols and are conducted with robust clinical governance standards in place. I would volunteer again in future if there was a need,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goan-doc-part-of-oxford-trials-says-did-to-defeat-disease/articleshow/77117078.cms||Lisa Monteiro
July 23, 2020||Vadodara||Five cops working with Vadodara CP test positive||VADODARA: Five cops working closely with city police commissioner Anupam Singh Gahlaut have tested positive for Covid-19. Gahlaut, however, tested negative and turned up at his office to work on Wednesday. The results of the tests, done as a precautionary measure, were declared late on Tuesday night. The five cops include driver of Gahlaut’s official car, his gunman and three constables who accompany the top cop in the pilot car. “All of them have been admitted to railway hospital. We will also get families of these cops tested for Covid-19,” Gahlaut said. All the five cops were asymptomatic. The staff working with Gahlaut had taken Covid tests several months ago and hence they underwent the tests again as a precautionary measure. The police said that the five cops may have contracted the virus either from their residential areas or after coming in touch with people during duty hours. The replacement cops, who will accompany Gahlaut, will be tested for the virus to ensure that he doesn’t get infected. “There are so many things in this pandemic to manage and the police commissioner can’t afford to get quarantined,” said a police official. The Police Bhavan that houses police commissioner’s office is sanitized regularly and not many civilians are allowed inside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/five-cops-working-with-vadodara-cp-test-positive/articleshow/77115437.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Dehradun||CM invites Google CEO Sundar Pichai to invest in U’khand||Dehradun: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Wednesday invited Sundar Pichai, chief executive officer of Alphabet Inc (which owns Google), to invest in the IT sector of the Himalayan state. In the letter, CM Rawat has mentioned that the state holds great potential in the IT sector and offered the required support to Pichai and his team. In the letter, CM Rawat wrote, “At the outset, let me welcome the decision made by Google to invest $10 billion in the digital ecosystem of India. We understand that this investment is to be made by Google over a period of five-to-seven years through a mix of equity investments in large Indian companies, startups, partnerships, as well as infrastructure investments such as data centres with a view to consolidating its position in the digital space in the country.” The letter added that Uttarakhand has emerged as a preferred investment destination in the country. It is ranked as the best hill state for Ease of Doing business in India. “Uttarakhand can claim among its strengths, a high literacy rate, abundance of skilled human resource, relatively less pollution and crime, one of the most well-developed school education system and proximity to Delhi-NCR region,” it read. Sources in the chief minister office said that an invitation has been extended to Pichai and if things work out, this would be a major achievement for the hill state. They added that the chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh and additional chief secretary Manisha Panwar have been directed by the CM to follow up on the matter and coordinate with the management team of Google.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-invites-google-ceo-sundar-pichai-to-invest-in-ukhand/articleshow/77114386.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 23, 2020||Madurai||Depositors of tainted milk co-op society seek steps to get money||Madurai: Depositors of the Madurai Milk Co-operative Credit Society, which is at the centre of a fund swindle, have urged the cooperative department to take immediate steps to release their hard-earned money. They said that all their future plans such as conducting marriage for children, constructing a house and unexpected medical expenses hinged on the money. Serving and past office-bearers of the society had misappropriated about Rs 7.9 crore of depositors’ money. The Commercial Crime Investigation Wing-CID police have registered a case against four people and arrested two in this connection. T Pandi, a retired superintendent of Aavin, said he had deposited Rs 4.7 lakh in the society, of which Rs 2.7 lakh was deposited separately after maturing in March. He planned to buy jewellery for his granddaughter with Rs 3 lakh and interest as she had recently attained puberty, but all his plans lay shattered. He said most of the officebearers were from the AIADMK. “I chose the society since it is run by government and expected it to be under the supervision of cooperative officials. But it was shocking that cheating was allowed to take place to such an extent,” he said. One depositor by name Chidambaram, a retired worker from Aavin, had died a few weeks ago due to an illness. Depositors say had he got the money on time, he would have got better treatment and survived.G Karunanidhi, a retired Aavin worker, said cooperative department officials should act fast to return money to the people whose deposits have attained maturity and regain its reputation. Depositors have urged CCIW-CID to bring 13 more present and past office-bearers mentioned in the recovery notice report under the ambit of the investigation. So far, only four people have been named in the first information report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/depositors-of-tainted-milk-co-op-society-seek-steps-to-get-money/articleshow/77117070.cms||V Devanathan
July 23, 2020||Gurgaon||Special teams to check Covid centres: Anil Vij||AMBALA: Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Wednesday said he had instructed senior officials to form teams at the district-level to inspect facilities at designated Covid-19 hospitals. At his residence here, Vij said, “I have asked the chief secretary to form teams in all districts and inspect Covid care centres and hospitals to check facilities and arrangements.” “Arrangements to check the Covid-19 spread in Haryana are is working very well. As soon as the procedure to unlock was initiated, everybody knew that the cases would rise. There is no doubt that they have (increased) but the speed of recovery is also good,” he said. Asked about human trials of Covid vaccine at Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, Vij said, “So far, 16 subjects have been involved in the Covaxin trial at PGIMS Rohtak. Four more will be added soon as the state has been allotted 20 subjects. So far, no adverse effects have been reported. It is a lengthy procedure and the subjects will be examined at regular intervals for two months.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/spl-teams-to-check-covid-centres-vij/articleshow/77120568.cms||Jaskaran Singh
July 23, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Coronavirus spreads to buffer zones from Aluva CZs||KOCHI: Covid-19 has been spreading to neighbouring local bodies from Aluva and Keezhmad clusters like firewheel crackers spreading fire and light, said district health officials. Ascertaining this, new cases have emerged from Kalady, Kanjoor, Nedumbassery and Chendamangalam panchayats and Eloor and Kalamassery municipalities, which have now become new buffer zones. A buffer zone is an area close to a containment zone. Officials called for more stringent measures after more cases were reported from residential 1areas. “There are two types of clusters in Keezhmad panchayat where 115 cases have been reported so far. One, an engagement ceremony while the other is related to Aluva market. Cases went up when both the clusters got interlinked. Though Aluva was shut, cases spread to its periphery like fire spread from a firewheel cracker. Karumalloor, Keezhmad, Alangad, Edathala, Kadungalloor and Choornikkara panchayats were regarded as buffer zones. These local bodies, which are situated in the periphery of Aluva, have now become spreading zones with headload workers and autorickshaw drivers from Aluva market turning out to be the carriers of the disease. By declaring the spreading zones as CZs, local bodies like Kalady, Nedumbassery, Kalamassery and Eloor have become new buffer zones,” said a district official. Meanwhile, as cases are on the rise in Keezhmad, authorities will set up a testing facility within the panchayat limit to test residents. “If 50% of wards in a local body come under a containment zone, the whole panchayat or municipality will be declared a CZ. If one or two wards are severely affected in a local body, micro containment should be introduced in these places to restrict people from crossing to other less-affected wards, where relaxations could be given. If we really want to bring down the spread, more restrictions have to be imposed,” said the official. A convent in Keezhmad has also become a cluster after more cases surfaced from there. An area is declared as a containment zone when 10 or more primary contacts of an infected person emerge from there. Meanwhile, another official said the health department would keep a watch on infection spread for two weeks. “Cases are doubling every week in Ernakulam. The next two weeks are crucial and we will keep a watch over the situation. If it worsens, we would recommend lockdown in the district. The curfew in Aluva cluster has been announced to save the rest of the district from contracting the virus. As some people from Aluva have been severely infected, we feel that the strain of virus is different from other parts of the district. As no study has been conducted on the strain of the virus, we don’t know more about the mutation of it,” said another official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/virus-spreads-to-buffer-zones-from-aluva-czs/articleshow/77115629.cms||T C Sreemol
July 23, 2020||Madurai||18 more dead in south TN, 482 test +ve in central dists||Madurai/ Trichy: As many as 1,666 fresh Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the 10 southern districts of the state on Wednesday. It is the highest single-day rise so far. The previous highest single day increase was 1,561 on July 14. Total cases in the south has climbed to 33,447 including 18,156 (54.3%) recovered cases and 14,879 (44.5%) active cases. Meanwhile, the central region of the state registered a record-high 482 Covid-19 cases in a single day pushing the tally to touch the 8,000-mark on Wednesday. With this, the regional tally has climbed to 8,087. The regional count jumped from 7,000 to 8,000 cases in just three days. The state media bulletin showed three more deaths in the region taking the toll to 93. Eighteen more deaths in the south resulted in the toll climbing to 412. Death rate in the region is 1.23%. It took five days to add the 3rd 100 deaths, but it has taken six days to add the 4th 100 on Wednesday. Deaths are reported in Madurai (7), Virudhunagar (6), Sivagangai (2), Theni (2) and Ramanathapuram (1). The deaths include a 23-year-old man from Madurai with chronic kidney disease who was admitted to the Government Rajaji Hospital on July 7. Testing positive the same day, he died due to acute respiratory distress syndrome, chronic kidney disease and Covid Pneumonia on Monday night. Three of them tested positive a day after their deaths due to co-morbid conditions. Samples were collected from a 60-year-old man from Theni on Saturday, the day after he got admitted but he died the same day. The result came on Sunday. A 63-year-old man from Virudhunagar from whom sample was collected on Monday died the same day. Result showing his positivity came on Tuesday. A 62-year old man from Madurai who got admitted and died on July 20 tested positive on Tuesday. A 72-year-old man from Virudhunagar admitted to the GRH on Sunday died the same night. Sample was collected from him on Monday and he tested positive on Tuesday. A 75-year-old man and a 57-year-old man from Pudukottai died of Covid-19 at the Government Medical College Hospital in Pudukottai on Tuesday and Wednesday respectively. A 78-year-old man also died of Covid-19 on Wednesday. Virudhunagar (363) and Tuticorin (327) have recorded more than 300 cases a day. This is only the second occasion two districts in the region recorded more than 300 cases a day. On both occasions it was involving Virudhunagar. Virudhunagar district recorded more than 350 cases for the second day in succession. Madurai recorded 197 cases, less than 200 cases for the third day in succession. Other southern districts with more than 100 cases on Wednesday are Theni (165), Kanyakumari (152), and Tirunelveli (120). In the central TN, Trichy recorded the highest single-day spike of 213 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday taking the total count to 2,686. The death toll of the district is 44. Trichy was on top of the list of positive cases in the region. Thanjavur district once again recorded a spike with 106 new cases. With that, the total number of positive cases in the district has climbed to 1,422. Covid-19 cases were also reported in Pudukottai (59), Tiruvarur (45), Nagapattinam (14), Ariyalur (26), Perambalur (15), and Karur (4).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/18-more-dead-in-south-tn-482-test-ve-in-central-dists/articleshow/77117065.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Nashik||6 from Nanded held for killing python||Aurangabad: Six people from Nanded were arrested for killing an Indian rock python and making the photos viral on social media. The incident took place within the Patnur gram panchayat in Ardhapur taluka, where photos of the dead python being dragged went viral on July 20. “The forest department took serious note of the incident and launched manhunt to nab those involved in killing the reptile. After extensive search, we could nab six people and also took into custody another one person, who had uploaded the photos on social media group,” Atindra Katti, the honorary wildlife warden, said on Wednesday. The suspects arrested are Parmeshwar Kokate, Satwaji Dumne, Raju Gaikwad, Pandi Yelane, Apparao Kokate, Rama Patange and Nagorao Mirase, all residents of Patnur. All these seven accused have been booked under the stringent provisions of the Indian Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. Killing of snakes can attract jail term of three years or fine of Rs 25,000 or both. The Indian rock python is termed as a friend of the farmer as it feeds on creatures causing menance to farms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/6-from-nanded-held-for-killing-python/articleshow/77114373.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Special teams to check Covid centres: Anil Vij||AMBALA: Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Wednesday said he had instructed senior officials to form teams at the district-level to inspect facilities at designated Covid-19 hospitals. At his residence here, Vij said, “I have asked the chief secretary to form teams in all districts and inspect Covid care centres and hospitals to check facilities and arrangements.” “Arrangements to check the Covid-19 spread in Haryana are is working very well. As soon as the procedure to unlock was initiated, everybody knew that the cases would rise. There is no doubt that they have (increased) but the speed of recovery is also good,” he said. Asked about human trials of Covid vaccine at Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, Vij said, “So far, 16 subjects have been involved in the Covaxin trial at PGIMS Rohtak. Four more will be added soon as the state has been allotted 20 subjects. So far, no adverse effects have been reported. It is a lengthy procedure and the subjects will be examined at regular intervals for two months.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/spl-teams-to-check-covid-centres-vij/articleshow/77116467.cms||Jaskaran Singh
July 23, 2020||Kochi||Keralite RTI activist jailed in Saudi Arabia||KOCHI: RTI activists are aghast at the arrest of Dominic Simon, who had been effectively utilizing provisions of the Right To Information Act to bring relief to hundreds of non-resident Keralites, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic by educating them on rights with regard to repatriation flights. Simon is being held in Al Hair prison in Riyadh after his arrest on July 8 but not even his family knows the reasons why he was picked up. Petitions have been forwarded to Union ministry of external affairs and embassy of India in Riyadh, seeking information on Simon. He is believed to have been arrested based on a false complaint by Indian embassy for making social media posts critical of the mission. His mother moved the high court on Wednesday. In Kerala, Simon who hails from Pala, was an active member of Vivaravakashikal, a group of RTI enthusiasts and was always vocal for the rights of NRIs, which won him an award by Pravasi Legal Cell, an organization that aids expats, says Mahesh Vijayan, an RTI activist. “Dominic has not received any legal help,” said Vijayan. In May this year, Simon had filed an RTI query with the Indian embassy regarding threatening calls. “Simon was critical of a section of embassy officials who took money for repatriating people out of turn using the Vande Bharat Mission flights and this seems to have angered them,” said Vijayan. Simon’s wife had filed a complaint through the PG portal. A reply on July 15 by Shyamsunder, an attache in Indian embassy, Riyadh, said Simon had posted ‘vitriolic remarks against the government on social media’ and ‘accused corruption in Vande Bharat Mission’. “Misusing social media for mobilization of people is against Saudi law...In view of his outbursts on social media, it seems that the Saudi authorities have taken suo moto cognizance of his activities and have detained him,” the reply said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/malayali-activist-in-saudi-jail-over-social-media-posts/articleshow/77115650.cms||Binu Karunakaran
July 23, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Amid pandemic, low-key August 15 celebrations this year||BHOPAL: There will be no Independence Day parade on August 15 this year as Madhya Pradesh continues to grapple with the pandemic. The decision was taken by state cabinet which met under the chairmanship of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan at Vallabh Bhavan on Wednesday morning. Briefing the media after the cabinet meeting, state home minister Narottam Mishra said, “Usual practice was to have people’s representatives hoisting flags at the district and tehsil levels across the state. But because of the corona spread, the cabinet decided that Independence Day will be observed in a single place by chief minister and all members of the council of ministers. In the districts and tehsils, government officials will complete the formalities.” Narottam Mishra specified that there will be no public functions or parade. “There will be no public function with schoolchildren, teachers and parade arranged by the administration. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan will give a speech which will be shown live through screens and via the media. Television channels will broadcast the chief minister’s Independence Day speech,” Mishra added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/amid-pandemic-low-key-august-15-celebrations-this-year/articleshow/77116508.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Gurgaon||87 infected with Covid-19 after Hisar ceremony||HISAR: The wedding of jeweller’s son in Hisar on June 29 led to 87 persons getting infected with Covid-19 in 14 days. During this period, the virus spread from Dogran Mohalla to 15 other areas of Hisar including Gandhi Colony, Gandhi Chowk, Kasaba Mohalla, Pratap Nagar, Vijay Nagar, Patel Nagar, Dev Vatika, Multani Chowk, Shanti Nagar, Dhani Shyamlal, Jawahar Nagar, Telian Pul, Jahal Pul, Sainian Mohalla and Satrod village. Even 26 members of the bride’s maternal family from Pillibanga in Rajasthan were infected, while 11 members of the groom’s maternal uncle in Sirsa and two relatives in Fatehabad also tested positive. Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University (CCSHAU) police post in-charge Chanderbhan said a committee under the SDM was probing the matteron orders of DC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/87-infected-after-hisar-ceremony/articleshow/77120748.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Chandigarh||87 infected with Covid-19 after Hisar ceremony||HISAR: The wedding of jeweller’s son in Hisar on June 29 led to 87 persons getting infected with Covid-19 in 14 days. During this period, the virus spread from Dogran Mohalla to 15 other areas of Hisar including Gandhi Colony, Gandhi Chowk, Kasaba Mohalla, Pratap Nagar, Vijay Nagar, Patel Nagar, Dev Vatika, Multani Chowk, Shanti Nagar, Dhani Shyamlal, Jawahar Nagar, Telian Pul, Jahal Pul, Sainian Mohalla and Satrod village. Even 26 members of the bride’s maternal family from Pillibanga in Rajasthan were infected, while 11 members of the groom’s maternal uncle in Sirsa and two relatives in Fatehabad also tested positive. Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University (CCSHAU) police post in-charge Chanderbhan said a committee under the SDM was probing the matteron orders of DC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/87-infected-after-hisar-ceremony/articleshow/77116505.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Goa||From today, antigen tests for those entering Goa: CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Wednesday that antigen tests would be carried out on all travellers entering Goa from Thursday instead of TrueNAT/RT-PCR tests. He said this has been made necessary as up to 500 persons enter the state every day, and the antigen tests give quick results. “Around two-three travellers test positive every day and are immediately quarantined and treated. For travellers, we need quick results,” Sawant said. “There is no change in the SOP. Only the testing has been changed for faster results,” a senior government official said. As per the government SOP, travellers can either take a test or come with a Covid-negative certificate from an ICMR-approved lab issued within 48 hours or go for a 4-day home quarantine. Sawant also said antigen tests and antibody tests are different. “Antibody testing began at Mangor Hill (the epicentre of local transmission in the state) on Wednesday from Chota Mangor at the suggestion of local MLA Carlos Almeida,” he said. “We have more than 500 kits available with us to carry out (antibody) tests. Almeida informed me that there are many youth in this area who, once recovered, are ready to donate their plasma for the treatment of other Covid patients.” Antibody tests, also known as serological tests, examine whether a person has produced antibodies against the virus, while an antigen test is used to detect certain proteins that are part of the virus. However, antigen tests are not foolproof. The health ministry on Tuesday said that 15% of symptomatic individuals in Delhi who tested negative in the antigen test were found to be positive in the confirmatory RT-PCR test. In a June 14 advisory, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said that for hotpots and containment zones, a positive antigen test should be considered a true positive, but suspected individuals who test negative should “definitely be tested” by RT-PCR to rule out infection. Meanwhile, Sawant said that all pharma units in the state are following set norms, and that the FDA director and labour commissioner are closely monitoring their functioning. “A meeting was held by the FDA director and labour commissioner with these units, and they have been asked to follow all norms,” he said. “In Zuarinagar, some workers were found positive before entering the workplace. A separate quarantine facility has been created for them, and they are being monitored.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/from-today-antigen-tests-for-those-entering-goa-cm/articleshow/77117110.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Shimla||Himachal: Nahan locality turns containment zone||SHIMLA: A small locality of Nahan town in Sirmaur district has left the entire Himachal Pradesh worried following the detection of 73 Covid-19 cases within a week. Initially one person, who had come to attend a marriage function, had tested positive. Ever since, cases have continuously increased from this locality of Govindgarh Mohalla, which has a population of 1,200, HP’s Sirmaur and Solan districts have emerged as the new hot spots of coronavirus. The industrial belt of Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh is another hotspot in the state from where 154 migrant workers have tested positive. Sirmaur has reported 130 positive cases so far, of which 90 active are mostly from Govindgarh Mohalla. The first Covid-19 positive case reported in the locality was of a pregnant woman on July 15. Sources said her brother had come from Punjab for the wedding. After she tested positive, her husband and other family members were also tested and found to have got the virus infection. Thereafter, as other people from locality were tested, the numbers increased. By July 21, there were 73 cases. Solan has reported 381 positive cases, of which 239 are active. Additional chief secretary (health) R D Dhiman said 159 cases of migrant industrial workers or their contacts have been reported in the district. He said these cases include 65 workers at Wrigley Chewing gum factory in Baddi, 57 at Sara textiles in Nalagarh, 32 at Arishto pharma in Nalagarh, two at Winsome textile in Baddi and three at Dipak Spinning Mill in Baddi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/nahan-locality-turns-containment-zone/articleshow/77116487.cms||Anand Bodh
July 23, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Protest at Nalasopara ST bus depot spills over to railway station||MUMBAI: Over 200 private office-goers protested at a Maharashtra State and Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) depot at Nalasopara for more buses and they then stopped a train at the station on Wednesday, demanding locals to go to work. Local trains shut after lockdown but Western Railway (WR) had started special trains from June 15 for staff of central government, state government, public sector banks, civic corporations and those in the medical field. Passengers can travel on producing a valid identity card. TimesViewPermission given to bring 10% employees back to work is bound to increase demand for transport, especially in the outer suburbs, Commuters on the Dahisar-Virar stretch are heavily reliant on Western Railway. Any meaningful effort to unlock economic activity will hinge on scaling up train services. Government and railways have to boost frequency of services to carry more traffic and prevent crowding at the same time.Many private sector employees were relying on state transport buses. Nalasopara depot has been plying over 200 buses daily to Mumbai, Thane and neighbouring areas, since Mission Unlock Mumbai began last month. As the crowd was unprecedented on Wednesday, depot staff permitted only passengers with work IDs to board, which led to a protest and bus services were halted. MSRTC managing director Shekhar Channe told TOI that they need to ply at least 25 buses to carry commuters of one train. He said to ensure that only people going to work travel by buses, checking IDs will be necessary. He said buses will be increased from Thursday. Depot officials told TOI families were boarding buses too. “We wanted to ensure that only those heading to work board. Many claimed they were going to work but did not have identity proof,” said an officer. They protested at the depot and then went to the station at 8.25am. They broke barricades, got onto tracks and halted a train. The protesters returned to the depot after 20 minutes on being pacified by railway police. After being assured more buses, the crowd dispersed. Among the protesters were staff of medical stores, private laboratories and malls (where sanitization is on) and industries. Protesters shouted slogans to restart regular trains and demanded that they be allowed to travel by those plying now. Almost all had masks but social distancing was thrown to the wind. MSRTC sources said a shortage of drivers and conductors affected the number of buses at depots. Vasai Government Railway Police (GRP) registered an FIR against unknown persons under sections 145 (b) (commits any nuisance, act of indecency or abusive language), 147 (unlawful entry on railway property) and 174 (a) (squatting, rail roko agitation) of Indian Railway Act. Police said arrests will be made based on CCTV footage. WR chief spokesperson Sumit Thakur said protesters stopped a Virar-bound train from 8.27am to 8.31am. They were counselled by police that special locals were being operated only for staff of essential services, as notified. From July 30, essential services staff can travel only with QR-coded e-passes. Human resources departments have to submit details of those who need to travel to the computer cell of Mumbai Police at the headquarters to generate e-passes. Now, essential services staff can board trains after showing work IDs. Around three lakh commuters are expected to travel in the trains. Times View | Permission given to bring 10% employees back to work is bound to increase demand for transport, especially in the outer suburbs, Commuters on the stretch between Dahisar and Virar are heavily reliant on Western Railway. Any meaningful effort to unlock economic activity will hinge on scaling up train services. Government and railways have to boost frequency of services to carry more traffic and prevent crowding at the same time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/protest-at-nalasopara-st-bus-depot-spills-over-to-rly-station/articleshow/77115995.cms||Sandhya Nair
July 23, 2020||Kanpur||8 Covid deaths, 108 cases reported as mini lockdown takes effect in Kanpur||KANPUR: Eight more Covid-19 patients succumbed on Wednesday, taking the district toll to 149. Of 149, 98 have died in the ongoing month of July alone. Since the start of the month, there has been a rapid rise in the number of the corona patients and no day has gone by when city did not witness a Covid death. In an effort to contain the spread of the virus, a ‘mini lockdown’ of four days had been announced by district magistrate Brahm Dev Ram Tiwari on late Monday night. The weekend lockdown would continue as usual. Under the mini lockdown, restrictions have been imposed on residents of localities coming under the jurisdiction of 10 police stations. Further, with 108 fresh corona cases being reported on Wednesday, the tally went past 3,000 mark and stands at 3,015. Even after 62 persons getting discharged from hospitals on Wednesday, the active cases crossed 1,400 mark. Nows total active cases are 1,402. So far, 1,454 persons who could defeat Covid-19, have been discharged from hospitasl and allowed to go home. Health department informed TOI that 108 fresh corona cases were spotted from Arya Nagar, Khalasi Line, Govind Nagar, Medical College Campus, Naubasta, Ratanlal Nagar, Vishwa Bank Barra, Juhi, Civil Lines, Collectorganj, Dabauli, Etawah Bazar, Kakadeo, Lal Bangla, Pandu Nagar, Nehru Nagar, Parade, Ajeet Nagar, Railway Colony, Jawahar Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, RK Nagar, Neta Nagar, Kidwai Nagar, Panki, Jajmau, Kalyanpur, Shastri Nagar, Harbans Mohal, Shukarkhana, Tilak Nagar, Ambedkar Nagar, Sajeti, Rawatpur, Dayanand Vihar, Chakeri, Pashupati Nagar, Ghatampur, Armapur, Pheelkhana, Swaroop Nagar, Loharanbhatta, Gujjaini, Shivrajpur, Hanspuram, Maharajpur, Makanpur. Among those who died include a 34-year-old man who was a resident of Vijay Nagar, 68-year-old resident of Rammohan Hata, 35-year-old man who was a resident of Harsh Nagar, 75-year-old woman who was resident of Chakeri, 32-year-old woman who was a resident of Panki, 40-year-old man who was a resident of Nayapurwa, 52-year-old man who was a resident of Gujjaini and 56-year-old woman was a resident of Barra locality. According to the health department, all the deceased were suffering from some or the other ailment such as diabetes, lung infection or irregular blood pressure. All of them died during treatment at LLR hospital while undergoing treatment. Health department also informed that a total of 1,139 samples were collected on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/8-covid-deaths-108-cases-reported-as-mini-lockdown-takes-effect-in-city/articleshow/77117094.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
July 23, 2020||Goa||Sattari anganwadi worker gets notice for ‘gossip against dept’||Panaji: The directorate of women and child development on Wednesday issued a show cause notice to anganwadi worker Lata Gaonkar posted at Murmune Guleli in Sattari. She was in the news recently following her transfer which came after her husband opposed IIT project in Sattari. Stating that she “gossips against the department at public places at Murmune” and that “ the Angangwadi Centre Murmune has been made operational by the department without fulfilling the criteria of the ministry of women and child development, New Delhi, and besides this department is unable to take any action against her due to political and societal influence.” Stating that her act is unbecoming of a government honorary anganwadi worker and is prejudicial to the department”, director of women and child development Deepali Naik directed her to show cause as to why she shouldn’t be terminated from the post of anganwadi worker within four days. The department accused Gaonkar of saying that the anganwadi centre has the least beneficiaries under SNP. In order to “start a fair and smooth enquiry on the above issues, the department had temporarily placed the said anganwadi worker at WCD block office Quepem,” read the show cause notice. The department also took cognisance of the fact that Gaonkar made statements to the media and posted self-disability photos on social media without bringing her disability to the notice of the department. The department also stated that it was unbecoming of her to personally try and visit the women and child minister at his residence at Dona Paula and Miramar to request cancellation of placement order but failed to meet him. Last week the Goa Human Rights Commission issued notices to the chief secretary and director of women and child development, SP (North) and PI Valpoi police station over the alleged violation of human rights of Melauli locals who were prevented from holding a press conference to protest against their lands being allotted for a permanent campus of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) project. The commission also took cognisance of her transfer from Murmune-Sattri to Quepem, a distance of more than 60km ,because her husband allegedly is active in opposing the project. The Gawda, Kunbi, Velip, Dhangar (Gakuved) federation also wrote to the chief minister, minister for tribal welfare and chairperson of the Goa state commission for SC/ST stating that Gaonkar’s transfer amounts to atrocities against a scheduled tribal person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sattari-anganwadi-worker-gets-notice-for-gossip-against-dept/articleshow/77117124.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana received Rs 300 crore in donations for state Covid relief fund: RTI reply||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government has received around Rs 300 crore in donation from persons and organisations for the state’s Covid-19 relief fund. The amount is being used by the state government to provide aid to the needy who are facing hardships due to Covid-19 pandemic in the state. The amount of donation under Haryana Covid-19 Relief Fund is being received in the shape of NEFT, RTGS, netbanking, UPI, IMPS, and cheques directly to the bank accounts. As per RTI sourced information, the state received Rs 300.86 crore, of which Rs 265.36 crore had been deposited at Sector 10, Panchkula, branch of State Bank of India (SBI), Rs 34.91 crore at a private bank’s branch in Sector 22, Chandigarh, and Rs 59 lakh at Punjab National Bank’s (PNB) Sector 17 branch. The information has been provided by the state public information officer (SPIO), Haryana Covid Relief Fund cell, finance department of Haryana, to Gurgaon-based RTI activist Aseem Takyar. While details of amount received by the state has been provided, the department has asked the applicant to deposit an amount of Rs 11,000 for getting complete details of persons who had contributed to the fund. The demand of Rs 11,000 has been made from the applicant, as the information sought by him contained is in 55,00 pages and he has to pay Rs 11,000 at the rate of Rs 2 for one page of information, to get the complete information. In his RTI application, Takyar sought the total amount received by the state in the Covid fund and the list of citizens, individuals, companies, government and non-government organisations, and others who had contributed amount towards Covid fund from March 2020 to date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-received-rs-300cr-in-donations-for-state-covid-relief-fund-rti-reply/articleshow/77116516.cms||Ajay Sura
July 23, 2020||Kochi||Social distancing a luxury in this Kochi slum||KOCHI: Here, large families live in single rooms. People depend on public toilets and taps for their basic needs. In this largest slum area that falls under Kochi corporation, social distancing seems to be an unaffordable and unachievable target. Mattancherry, Kalvathy, Iravelli, Karipalam, Kochuangadi, Chakkamadam and parts of Cheralai divisions form prominent slum areas under the local body. Kochi corporation councillors and officials, who closely work with the local population, find tackling community spread in these areas virtually impossible due to high population density. Former Kochi corporation councillor and a resident of Iraveli, Rahim K M, said, “It is a region where you can find families living in single dilapidated rooms. Sometimes tiny houses are built in less than two cents of land. Even two families could be seen living in one such house. Not every house in the slum areas has KWA pipe connection or toilets. About 50% of residents here depend on public taps and toilets.” According to officials with the urban poverty alleviation department (UPAD), the highest number of landless people in Kochi corporation area are concentrated in this region. P E Hameed, a social worker from the region said, “It is also one of the educationally backward regions in the district. And for this reason, it is not easy to convince them of the need for practising social distancing. People wear masks, wash hands or stay indoors not because of the fear of Covid-19 but because of the fear of police. More efforts have to be put in by officials to create awareness on Covid.” Stringent monitoring and lockdown measures are required to keep residents confined to their homes. Mattancherry and its neighbourhoods have a culture where people stay outdoors, until late midnight. “Be it day or night they gather on the narrow streets or roads, drinking tea or munching. It is a culture that has been passed down to the generations,” he added. Most of the people living in the slum area are daily wage earners. They work at fisheries harbour, Willingdon Island, Mattancherry Bazaar and construction sites. The women work at the shops and commercial centres located in mainland Ernakulam while some work at apartments in Kakkanad. “Their livelihood is mainly dependent on mainland Ernakulam. While confining the local population to their homes, authorities should ensure that they get essential supplies. They should have access to 24-hour water and power supply. Moreover, adequate quarantine facilities should be provided for these people. Any failure on behalf of authorities will trigger another disaster,” said former mayor K J Sohan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/social-distancing-a-luxury-in-this-kochi-slum/articleshow/77115665.cms||Greeshma Gopal Giri
July 23, 2020||Indore||Bhopal: Pyare Mian sent to police remand for 5 days||BHOPAL: Local newspaper owner Pyare Mian, accused of raping and sexually exploiting minor girls, was produced before the court on Wednesday from where he was he was again sent to police remand for five days. Koh-e-Fiza police will interrogate him in the cases registered against him. Police will also verify if Pyare has a gun licence as the survivors had revealed that he used to brandish his pistol to threaten them, when they didn’t follow his orders. The special investigation team may take Pyare Mian to Indore in a day or two to investigate the crime scene at his properties there. SP (South) Sai Krishna S Thota said, “Police will write a letter to the collector and verify whether Pyare has a valid gun licence. If he doesn’t have it, a case under Arms Act will be registered against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/pyare-mian-sent-to-police-remand-for-5-days/articleshow/77122980.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Pyare Mian sent to police remand for 5 days||BHOPAL: Local newspaper owner Pyare Mian, accused of raping and sexually exploiting minor girls, was produced before the court on Wednesday from where he was he was again sent to police remand for five days. Koh-e-Fiza police will interrogate him in the cases registered against him. Police will also verify if Pyare has a gun licence as the survivors had revealed that he used to brandish his pistol to threaten them, when they didn’t follow his orders. The special investigation team may take Pyare Mian to Indore in a day or two to investigate the crime scene at his properties there. SP (South) Sai Krishna S Thota said, “Police will write a letter to the collector and verify whether Pyare has a valid gun licence. If he doesn’t have it, a case under Arms Act will be registered against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/pyare-mian-sent-to-police-remand-for-5-days/articleshow/77116523.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Nagpur||40% dip in road accidents, fatalities down by 32%||NAGPUR: Amid all the negativity surrounding the Covid-induced lockdown, the restrictions have come as a blessing in disguise in a way as the number of accidents has come down significantly. The city has seen 40% drop in the number of road accidents reported in first six months of 2020 as compared to the corresponding period last year. Fatalities too declined by 32% during the same period. As per city traffic police data, 342 accidents were reported from January 1 to June 30 this year — which is much less compared to 572 in the corresponding period last year. In the same period this year, city witnessed 72 fatal accidents, while the number was 121 last year. The data also revealed that in the same period, 86 men and seven women had died in accidents while 334 were injured, whereas 131 (111 men and 20 women) had died in road accidents and 593 injured last year. Senior police officials attributed this drop to complete lockdown due to coronavirus pandemic. “The lockdown and heavy police bandobust were the prime reasons for the decline,” said a senior traffic police inspector. According to traffic police’s analysis, city’s internal streets remain accident-prone than the busy roads like national and state highways criss-crossing the city. Of the 342 accidents, inner roads accounted for 63% (209), while Ring Road recorded 39. In the corresponding period of 2019, 339 accidents took place on internal lanes, while inner Ring Road witnessed 45 accidents. This year, however, the inner Ring Road witnessed five more cases of fatal accidents. In 2019, inner Ring Roads had recorded 11 fatal accidents as against 16 up to June, 2020. In complete contrast, cases of traffic violation witnessed an upward trend amid all the restrictions. From January to June this year, the city traffic police booked more than 2.50 lakh motorists for rule violations, which roughly translates to an increase of 14% as compared to the corresponding period last year when the number was 2.15 lakh. The highest number of traffic violators were booked by Sitabuldi zone (44,353 motorists) followed by Cotton Market zone (38,325) and MIDC zone (26,658). The traffic police recovered over Rs3.97 crore fine from 2,50,696 violators in the first six months this year as against Rs3.99 crore fine collected from 2,15,427 violators during the same period of 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/40-dip-in-road-accidents-fatalities-down-by-32/articleshow/77116519.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 23, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Covid symptom-test report gap puts patients, kin at risk||KOLKATA: With the number of Covid cases shooting up by the hour, patients are being forced to wait for the test as well as for the report for two and three days, leading to a delay in treatment. Overburdened labs are working round the clock — with short breaks in between — but they are still struggling to keep pace with the rising demand. “There is a huge mismatch between the number of samples coming to us and the capacity of our lab. Because of the backlog, the waiting period is getting longer despite our technicians working 24x7,” said a microbiologist attached with a government hospital. While some labs are still delivering reports within 24 hours, a few private labs have restricted the number of OPD samples by introducing token system and giving particular slots for patients to turn up in the OPD. Some labs with home collection facilities, too, are allotting slots as they are unable to meet the demand. “We are running about 400 samples daily. So far, we have been able to deliver reports within 24 hours. In addition to our admitted patients, we are catering to some hospitals as well as OPD patients. But the demand for OPD test is overwhelming,” said Bhaskar Narayan Chaudhuri, microbiologist at Peerless Hospital. In some labs attached with state-run medical colleges, the waiting period has stretched to three days in some cases. In addition to their own patients, there are suspected cases or patients who need to undergo a surgery or a procedure like dialysis. “Unless the number of machines and manpower is increased, it is impossible to escalate our capacity. We have so much of backlog to clear everyday, resulting in the waiting period,” said an official of a government medical college that has increased its capacity from 500 to 1,000 samples. Though the state government has raised daily test mark to 14,000, health experts said that we need at least 25,000 tests a day.  “Currently, most of the labs are overburdened. Increasing the number of labs, proper distribution of workload and deploying other methods like antigen testing could help in solving the problem as setting up at RT-PCR lab is not that easy,” said cardiac surgeon Kunal Sarkar, senior vice-president of Medica Superspecialty Hospital. Currently, 56 labs are testing Covid samples across the state, of which four were added this week. More than half of these labs are in Kolkata. “Delay in getting report could hamper treatment in severe cases of infection as these patients cannot be given steroids or drugs like ramdesivir that are important in Covid management,” said Chaudhury. “For asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients, delay in getting a report is not an issue. In cases of severe symptoms, doctors can detect the infection through chest CT scan and start treatment before the cofirmatory RT-PCR report comes. But for that, the hospital should have such a dedicated CT scan facility,” said critical care specialist Arindam Kar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-symptom-test-report-gap-puts-patients-kin-at-risk/articleshow/77116478.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 23, 2020||Nagpur||RSS trade union arm to oppose govt policies||NAGPUR: In the first-ever protest of this scale against the government in recent times, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s (RSS) trade union arm, Bharaitya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), has announced a weeklong drive—Sarkar Jagaon Saptah. During the campaign, protests will be held across the country in district headquarters, tehsils and even block centres from July 24 to 30. The decision was taken after a virtual meeting of the BMS’ national officer bearers held on July 7, said a press release issued by the union. This is following the success of the three-day strike in the coal industry which according to the union had hit 95% of the activities in the coal sector. “BMS feels that the success of coal strike will have an outstanding impact on the entire public sector.” the press release said. The BMS is protesting against the corporatization of the railways and ordnance factory board, apart from taking up other issues like problems of migrant workers, non-payment of wages, loss of jobs, suspension of labour laws and increase in the working hours in many states. “We will also be mobilizing workers engaged in the unorganized sector. Time and again the government has been warned about the workers’ condition but now the situation has worsened,” said Suresh Chaudhari, the media in-charge of BMS. The BMS activists have contacted parliamentarians of different parties seeking their support. As part of the campaign the BMS, activists will contact grassroot level workers and educate them about the latest policies of the central and state government. It will also expose the anti-worker’ ordinances brought by the four state governments, said the release. BMS’ president K Saji Narayanan told TOI that this was for the first time that a series of protests are being carried out against the government. The opposition is to policies of both state and central government. The central government is being opposed for privatization. The protests against the state governments are for bringing up anti-labour laws in the name of reforms. “Though a day’s strike was held in March 2020, followed by the strike in the coal sector, such intensity of a campaign is for the first time” said Naryananan. During the campaign, cause of workers engaged in sectors like health, power, transport, cement, sugar, distilleries, pharmaceuticals, apart from the issues related to employees in government establishments like railways, posts defence production ,state government and local bodies will be taken up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rss-trade-union-arm-to-oppose-govt-policies/articleshow/77116539.cms||Shishir Arya
July 23, 2020||Bhopal||Reforms should be fast-paced, says MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said that the implementation of reforms required for the Atmanirbhar Bharat package should be ensured within time-limit in the state. He was reviewing the ongoing activities pertaining to reforms to be made for the Atmanirbhar Bharat package, in view of the financial situation emerging out of the Covid-19 crisis. Minister of civil supplies and consumer protection Bisahulal Singh, urban development and housing minister Bhupendra Singh, energy minister Pradyuman Singh Tomar, industrial policy and investment promotion minister Rajvardhan Singh Dattigaon were also present at the meeting. CM Chouhan said that the states will be able to take 2% additional amount of GSDP as loan under the Atmanirbhar Bharat package. For this, reforms like One Nation One Ration Card, simplification of trade, improvement in urban local bodies and reforms in power sector have been laid down by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It was informed in the meeting that additional Rs14,237 crore will be received on implementation of reforms. Aadhaar seeding of ration cards and beneficiaries under One Nation-One Ration Card system will be completed by October 31. CM Chouhan directed that ineligible persons should be removed from the list after examining those who are not taking ration for the last six months. U nder trade simplification, a district-level reform plan is to be implemented by concerned departments. Arrangements have to be made to link property tax to collector guidelines, to develop a system of periodic increase in rates of consumer charges such as water supply, drainage and sewage under the reforms in the urban local bodies. Similarly, a strategy has to be prepared under the DBD scheme for agricultural consumers in the energy sector. Chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains, additional chief secretary commercial tax Manoj Govil and principal secretary industrial policy Sanjay Shukla were also present at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/reforms-should-be-fast-paced-says-mp-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan/articleshow/77116535.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Kolkata||Fight virus, not those suffering from it: CM Mamata Banerjee||KOLKATA: If one is affected with Covid-19, there is nothing to get scared of because those infected recover soon, chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said while inaugurating Upanna, an administrative building adjoining Nabanna that will be used by chief secretary and senior police officials. The battle is against the disease and not against people who are suffering from it, she added. The CM said the state government was emphasising on solving problems of people by stressing on public grievance redress mechanism. According to her, out of 7.9 lakh cases just 54,000 are pending while the rest have been solved. Meanwhile, the CMO tweeted to inform that Bengal has been able to resolve 93% of the complaints received at the CMO grievance cell since its launch last Syear. “We are working tirelessly to dispose of the pending 54,000 grievances following all due process,” the statement read. “Our fight is against the disease and not against the patients. Some people are not allowing the Covid warriors to go home. It is illegal. Many policemen had been affected with the disease and police are doing a good job. Even around 35 officials had been affected by the disease,” she said while inaugurating Upanna, which will also have a control room. According to the CM, the economy was badly hit by the disease. “We have to fight against all odds and move forward, as life means going forward and we have to move ahead taking people with us,” she said. The CM added that Bengal has surged ahead in various fields, including onion and fish production. “We have been able to produce 7.5 lakh tonnes of onion. We have been able to produce onions and have set up cold storages as well. We are using barren land for agriculture and we have several plans, including long-, mid- and short-term ones,” she said. The production of eggs and chicken has gone up manifold since 2011, she said. “We are now self-sufficient in egg production. The state government had been able to start fish production in many new ponds. We have been able to dig up 3.5 lakh new ponds and soon we would be self-sufficient in fish production as well. We are supporting fish farmers by all means,” she said. The chief minister added that the government was trying to control the price of chicken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fight-virus-not-those-suffering-from-it-cm/articleshow/77116502.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Bareilly||16 held for cyber fraud, Rs 12.85 lakh recovered||BAREILLY: Sixteen people were arrested on Wednesday for alleged involvement in cyber fraud from Dhantiya village under Fatehganj (West) police station here. Police seized Rs 12.85 lakh cash, 54 mobile phones, 75 SIM cards, 100 chequebooks, 90 passbooks, 165 ATM cards, 96 Aadhaar cards, one passport, two laptops, one tablet and jewellery and impounded five cars, two bikes and one scooty from their possession. Senior superintendent of police Shailesh Pandey said acting on a tip-off, a team raided the village and arrested them. The accused conceded to have conducted cyber frauds, added the SSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/16-held-for-cyber-fraud-rs-12-85-lakh-recovered/articleshow/77113305.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
July 23, 2020||Goa||Govt set to pass state budget without discussion||Panaji: Speaker Rajesh Patnekar said on Wednesday that the Goa legislative assembly’s business advisory committee (BAC) has decided that the state budget for 2020-21 would be passed without discussion on demands during the one-day session on July 27. “There (will be) no discussion on the budget, and there will also be no cut motions, because there is no time,” said Patnekar. Leader of opposition Digambar Kamat criticised the move, conveying his dissent to the speaker. “It is unfortunate that the government is trying to bulldoze the democratic right of the people’s elected representatives to voice issues concerning the common man, and wants to pass the budget without proper discussion,” he said. Chief minister Pramod Sawant read out his budget speech on February 6, after the opposition was evicted from the house. The opposition said that the decision to pass the entire budget during a one-day session is yet another instance of Sawant trying to “bulldoze” his way. The opposition, including Goa Forward Party president Vijai Sardesai and MGP MLA Ramakrishna Dhavalikar, have called on the government to seek a vote-on-account for four months instead of passing the entire budget. Along with the appropriation bill for 2020-21, the state government also plans to introduce seven amendment bills to ratify ordinances that were passed during the Covid-19 pandemic. “The bills are not complicated, and every member of the committee has agreed to them. Only the bills which some MLAs raised objections to in the media, saying that they can’t be passed without a discussion, won’t be taken up,” Patnekar said. Sources said that an amendment to the Goa Panchayat Raj Act, 1994, to route construction licences or occupancy certificates for multi-dwelling real estate projects through the block development officer (BDO), will not be introduced. The proposed amendment to the Goa Investment Promotion Act, 2014, has also been deferred due to concerns raised by stakeholders. “They plan to pass seven ordinances and five bills, which would have taken a week to debate and pass. They want to bulldoze them in one day,” said Sardesai, who has recommended that instead of curtailing the session to one day, a virtual assembly could be held. The opposition also wants the one-day monsoon assembly session to focus on the Covid pandemic, state finances, economic revival, and the environmental impact of the proposed projects running through the Bhagwan Mahavir wildlife sanctuary and Mollem national park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-set-to-pass-state-budget-without-discussion/articleshow/77117122.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Kozhikode||Cops demand background checks||Kozhikode: Kanhangad police has issued a notice to all mosque committees under its sub-division asking them to check the criminal background of the persons before appointing them in madrassas and other institutions. The notice has been issued in the backdrop of sexual abuse of a 16-year-old girl at Nileshwar by her father, who is a teacher in a madrassa, and three others. The notice says that it is the responsibility of the mosque committee to ensure that the persons appointed as staff do not have criminal background and have good conduct. Police also warn of legal action against the committees which do not follow the direction. Kanhangad DSP M P Vinod said the Nileshwar incident is the immediate reason for issuing such a notice. “The father of the girl is accused in three sexual abuse cases registered at stations including Bekal. But he got an appointment at a madrassa again,” he said. “Notices have been served to all the mosques under my sub-division. The basic intention is to make the committees aware of the danger of appointing people with criminal antecedents. Such cases often go unreported, leading to the accused roaming freely in society,” he said. However, the Solidarity Youth Movement strongly condemned the notice calling it discriminatory and racist. In a Facebook post, Solidarity state president Nahas Mala said that the notice exposed the latent anti-Muslim attitude of the police. Many attacks had taken place against madrassa students and teachers in various parts of Kerala. A child named Fahad was brutally murdered while he was on his way to madrassa and a madrassa teacher was killed inside a mosque in Kasaragod, he said. All these are reflections of the racial prejudice existing in the society. Now the police also have added their bit by making it part of official circular, Nahas said. He also alleged that the police, which is expected to be impartial, are actively participating in propagating anti-Muslim mentality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/cops-demand-background-checks/articleshow/77115681.cms||Prashanth M P
July 23, 2020||Mumbai||Police to record Kangana’s statement in Sushant case||Mumbai: Bandra police, probing the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput (34), will record actor Kangana Ranaut’s statement. Police said they tried to serve summons at her Khar residence-cum-office on July 3, but her manager told them to send a team to Manali, where she is currently due to lockdown. But @KanganaTeam tweeted that there was no formal summons. Instead, Rangoli (Kangana’s sister) kept getting casual calls from cops for two weeks. They insisted they don’t get any response from @mumbaipolice. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/police-to-record-kanganas-statement-in-sushant-case/articleshow/77116001.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Bareilly||Woman, 4-year-old son die after tree fallson them as heavy rain lashes Sambhal dist||Bareilly: A 21-year-old woman and her four-year-old son lost their lives after an old tree came crashing down on them amid heavy rain on Bahjoi-Babrala road under Dhaneri police station in Sambhal on Tuesday evening. According to police, four people, including the child, were on their way to Kundarki from Dhanari on a bike to buy medicines when a tree fell on them due to heavy rainfall when they were crossing Bahjoi-Babrala road. The victims have been identified as Zarina and her son Arman. The bodies were sent for postmortem, while the other two who sustained severe injuries were referred to a higher medical centre, said police. Dhaneri police station SHO Ravindra Pratap Singh told TOI, “After passers-by informed police, a team rushed to the spot and called a crane to rescue the victims who were crushed under the tree trunk. The mother and son sustained grievous injuries and died on the spot, while two other family members, Guddu and Afsar, sustained severe injuries.” “All four were rushed to the district hospital, where doctors proclaimed the mother-son dead upon arrival. The bodies have been sent for postmortem, while the condition of the two others is stated to be critical. They were referred to a higher medical centre in Moradabad,” added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-4-year-old-son-die-after-tree-fallson-them-as-heavy-rain-lashes-sambhal-dist/articleshow/77113328.cms||Maria Khan
July 23, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: On everyone’s must-buy list, pulse oximeter demand triggers supply concern, price surge||KOLKATA: With a sudden spike in demand for pulse oximeters, medical shops across Kolkata are finding it difficult to cater to the demand for the device that is used for detecting hypoxemia or low blood oxygen level. Even the products which might not be meeting industry-specified medical standards, are now flying off the shelves and consumers are buying them at a premium. While an imported pulse oximeter is being sold at Rs 700-750 at wholesale points, customers are paying a hefty amount to buy it from retail stores or through online platforms. Prices of the pulse oximeter, therefore, is varying between Rs 850 and Rs 5,000, depending on the brand or country of origin. “Households, which never even had a single pulse oximeter, are now buying multiple devices. This has further boosted the demand. Before Covid-19 outbreak, there was hardly any sale of the product. But we are selling nearly 400 pieces per day now,” said Vishal Agarwal of Rajesh Medical and Company. “I had bought an oximeter for my ailing grandmother last year for Rs 1,100. Now, the same oximeter of the same brand is being sold at Rs 4,000. This is just absurd,” said Subhajit Das, a resident of Behala. “There is no dearth of supplies at the wholesale points. We deal in imported products only and the supply has been steady. At the wholesale points, a pulse oximeter is priced between Rs 700-750,” said Paresh Daftary of Aatman Exports. The spike in demand at the stores and a dearth of supplies have prompted online platforms to sell pulse oximeter at prices varying between Rs 1,200 and Rs 4,500. Many of these products, retailers said, are not from any well-known brand and are imported into the country. Surging price of pulse oximeters had prompted the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority last month to order that manufacturers or importers have to submit the MRP of the products. “We have been selling oximeters in the range of Rs 3,000 to Rs 4000. But at present we have none. We are asking customers to pre-book a device and informing them when the product arrives,” said the manager of the Thakurpukur branch of a major medicine shop chain in Kolkata. Doctors, however, are wary of indiscriminate use of the device. “Most of the pulse oximeters being sold in the market do not conform to any medical grade. There are chances that the readings are erroneous. It is better to consult a doctor rather than checking with a pulse oximeter if one is feeling breathless,” said Sumit Sengupta, consultant respiratory physician with AMRI Hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/on-everyones-must-buy-list-pulse-oximeter-demand-triggers-supply-concern-price-surge/articleshow/77116527.cms||Rohit Khanna
July 23, 2020||Kochi||Medical professionals too are accountable||By: Prof OV Nandimath & Dr Alexander Thomas The recently notified Consumer Protection Act (CPA) 2019 has caused a very unusual situation with different perceptions prevailing in the minds of the public and among medical professionals. Medical services were specifically included in the CPA when the original bill was introduced in 2018, but omitted in the final draft that was passed by Parliament in 2019. This is the reason for the prevailing confusion.  Immediately after the Rajya Sabha passed the bill, the Press Trust of India reported that minister for consumer affairs, Ram Vilas Paswan, said that the government had dropped healthcare from the bill because several members of Parliament had objected to it. Now, with the notification by the Central government, the 2019 bill has become law.  The new law is revolutionary in many respects, with greater aspirations for better consumer welfare. The establishment of a Central Consumer Protection Authority, deeper treatment of unfair trade practices (rather than merely a passing mention), more liberty for the consumer to take disputes for redressal, clearer regulation pathways for misleading advertisements, etc., are a few examples to illustrate this point.  The CPA, 1986, defined ‘service’ to include banking, financing, insurance, transport, processing, supply of electrical or other energy, boarding or lodging or both, housing construction, entertainment, amusement or the purveying of news or other information. It excluded any service rendered free of charge and contracts of personal service (i.e., service rendered by your house-help acting directly under your control, without using his own discretion while carrying out the work entrusted).  Until the verdict of the Supreme Court in the case of VP Shanta (1996), there were speculations about whether medical services were included under the CPA or not. Settling the speculations, the apex court interpreted it as coming within the ambit of CPA. This heralded a new era of medical professionals being sued in consumer tribunals. The new CPA follows suit, defining ‘service’ to include all the elements spelled out above, while specifically excluding any service rendered free and contracts of personal services. The interpretation of the VP Shanta case by the Supreme Court resulted in medical professionals or health services being included within its ambit. Sec. 1(4) of the new Act overridingly stipulates that, unless expressly provided by the Central government by notification, the Act shall apply to all goods and services.  Therefore, the combined reading of these provisions lead us to the conclusion that, unless excluded expressly by the Central government, the present law would apply to medical professionals and health services. (The writers are members of Think Tank on Health at NLSIU)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/medical-professionals-too-are-accountable/articleshow/77115731.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 16 health workers test Covid-19 positive in 3 days||KOLKATA: At least 16 healthcare workers from two government-run hospitals in the city have got infected in the past three days. Six healthcare workers at Medical College Hospital, Kolkata, were found Covid positive on Wednesday. Though the tertiary-level Covid hospital is currently running 660 beds had stopped non-corona services earlier, it has now started taking in non-Covid patients as well. Sources said that none of doctors and nurses infected was involved in the Covid wards and they are symptomatic. In NRS Medical College and Hospital (NRSMCH), at least 10 healthcare workers have contracted the infection in the past three days. The hospital is yet to start start treating Covid patients but it runs isolation wards for SARI and suspected Covid patients. Hospital officials said that more than 100 patients who are admitted in the hospital for treatment of other ailments have turned positive in the past few days. The infected health workers were involved in taking care of these patients. “A large number of asymptomatic patients who were admitted for other ailments got infected. All health workers who had come in contact with those patients underwent Covid tests and a few of them tested positive. All of them are fine and asymptomatic. They are in home isolation,” said a source at NRS Medical College. The positive patients have been shifted to other government-run Covid facilities. NRSMCH is gearing up for starting its own Covid ward with 110 beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/16-health-workers-test-ve-in-3-days/articleshow/77116515.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 23, 2020||Bhopal||Covid mortality rate 3.1%, tests up in MP||BHOPAL: Despite a surge in Covid-19 cases, the fatality rate in Madhya Pradesh remains static. “Fatality rate stands at 3.10% in the state,” said MP department of public health and family welfare, principal secretary, Faiz Ahmed Kidwai. As many as 10,502 Covid-19 cases have been reported from July 1 to 21. The tally in the state crossed 24,000, in the last three weeks. In effect, nearly half of all cases have been reported in July itself. About 190 deaths took place in the same period. The total number of deaths in the state has crossed the 750-mark. The Union health ministry claims that India has the lowest number of deaths per million population. India currently has 20.4 deaths per million population. Neighbouring Maharasthra and Gujarat have a higher mortality rate than MP. The positivity rate estimates whether the testing numbers have kept pace with the rate of spread of infection. The ideal rate as per WHO standards is 5%. MP has substantially increased testing capacity in the past four weeks. Among the 52 districts, Bhopal has witnessed the highest spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the past three weeks. The capital reported 1,723 new cases since July 1, taking its tally to 4,700. Around 40% of all cases in Bhopal were reported in July. In the same period, 45 deaths were reported. The death toll in Bhopal is now 145. All 52 districts have active cases. However, Covid-19 hospitals are limited to eight districts. As the infection spreads in rural areas, mitigation and management is critical to early detection and treatment of the infection. There are 25 district hospitals catering to Covid-19 treatment across the state. All district hospitals are soon to have at least a 10-bed ICU facility for treatment of CovidD-19. Bhopal has five medical college hospitals dedicated for Covid-19 treatment. Other such centres are in Chhindwara, Datia, Dewas, East Nimar, Jabalpur, Shahdol, Shivpuri, Ujjain, Vidisha, Mandsaur and Ratlam, which have one centre each. Gwalior, Rewa and Sagar have two such centres each. Treatment and testing for Covid-19 is completely free for all in MP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-mortality-rate-3-1-tests-up-in-mp/articleshow/77116547.cms||Jamal Ayub
July 23, 2020||Vadodara||Police refuse BCA permission to vote||VADODARA: In a setback to the Baroda Cricket Association (BCA), the city police have denied permission to gather members for passing the resolutions after the annual general meeting (AGM) on Thursday. The association had arranged for five venues where the BCA members were to vote for the resolutions post AGM. BCA management, however, has decided to conduct its AGM online as per the original schedule. “We didn’t give the permission for gathering of members as per the government directive that has banned such gatherings till July 31,” said Anupam Singh Gahlaut, city police commissioner. The management said that it had taken all precautions to ensure that not more than 20 members gather simultaneously at any of the venues. “Considering the positive response from the BCA voters, we will go ahead with the AGM online on Thursday. To vote for the resolutions, the members will be asked to send their ballot vote in a sealed envelope to the BCA on or before July 24,” said Satyajit Gaekwad, chairman, press and publicity committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/police-refuse-bca-permission-to-vote/articleshow/77115488.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Hubballi||Pvt college in Hubballi rolls out bridge course for I PU||Hubballi: Although the Karnataka government, despite much opposition from a section of the stakeholders in the education sector, went ahead with the SSLC examinations, students waiting for their results are grappling with uncertainty about their future. With no decision yet on reopening of schools, both students and parents are staring at uncertainty. However, a college in Hubballi has launched an online bridge course for students keen on opting science in pre-university. The Sana Shaheen Independent PU College in Bhairidevarkoppa, Hubballi is offering students a chance to get a head-start on their lessons by signing up for the bridge course. Ashraf Ali Basheer Ahmed, managing trustee of the college, told TOI that the college had set up an advanced studio, which had cost the management Rs 10 lakh. Acknowledging the variance of opinion on the subject, Ahmed said, “One needs to accept that online classes are going to play a vital role in higher education in the future. Students will spend more time with teachers on web portals. This is the reason we have set up a studio, where a trained photographer will help film the lessons. The lessons for the bridge course have elements of high school syllabus, NCERT chapters and training for CET as well. We launched the classes on July 13.” Chairman of the college MM Malagi said that qualified lecturers were filming online lessons, which were reaching 300 students across North Karnataka. Rakesh Patil of Haveri, Vinayak K of Ballari and Sheel CJ from Belagavi, are among those attending these online classes, said that the lessons were proving very helpful, and would keep them prepared when the colleges reopened for good.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/pvt-college-in-hubballi-rolls-out-bridge-course-for-i-pu/articleshow/77108568.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
July 23, 2020||Bengaluru||New BBMP Covid task force identifies key areas of focus||BENGALURU: The BBMP’s new Covid-19 task force on Tuesday sought to focus on areas that needed urgent attention. Besides top Palike officers, the task force also comprises leading doctors, including epidemiologist Dr Giridhara Babu, pulmonologist Dr Ravi Mehta and Dr Ashish Satapathy, regional team lead, WHO, Bengaluru. Mayor Goutham Kumar and the civic body’s new commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad took part in a meeting where the prime areas requiring focus were identified: Laboratory services, home isolation, Covid Care Centres (CCCs), manpower, ICU beds and media and public participation. “Lack of manpower is causing delay in testing and reporting cases. Inadequate kits have affected the testing process. The labs are overburdened with samples from other districts,” a senior BBMP official said. Also, apprehension over availability of treatment is acting as a big stumbling block in promotion of home isolation for asymptomatic patients and freeing up beds in hospitals, the official added. There are eight CCCs that are accommodating only 2,101 patients against a capacity of 10,000. “In order to ensure their optimum use, we are taking steps to remove the stigma around these centres and set up telemedicine and teleconsultation facilities to manage them,” said Dr Nirmala Buggi, special officer, clinical. “We will also have teams of volunteers for CCCs to ensure round-the-clock care is available,” Buggi added. “It has been three months and the staff working on ground have been over burdened. A new rotation pattern needs to be identified,” said Prasad. “ICU beds in the city are the biggest problem, because they are occupied by non-critical patients and the number of high-flow oxygen beds is inadequate,” he said, adding, “Controlling the virus spread is BBMP’s main motto and we are working towards it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/new-bbmp-covid-task-force-identifies-key-areas-of-focus/articleshow/77115973.cms||Nithya Mandyam
July 23, 2020||Bareilly||Gang involved in ATM robberies in Moradabad, Sambhal districts busted, four arrested||BAREILLY: With the arrest of four people, including three hailing from northeast Delhi, police claimed to have busted a gang involved in two ATM robberies in which Rs 10 lakh and around Rs 17 lakh were looted in Sambhal and Moradabad districts, respectively, in the past two months. Police said they seized Rs 10 lakh, gas cutters, fake media ID cards and other equipment from their possession and impounded a Swift car they were travelling in on the Sambhal-Joya road. The accused are history-sheeters, who have several cases are lodged against them at various police stations in Moradabad, Sambhal and Ghaziabad districts in Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, said police. Speaking to TOI, Sambhal superintendent of police (city) Yamuna Prasad said, “Acting on a tip-off, a joint team of Nakhasa police station and the surveillance department conducted checking on the Sambhal-Joya bypass, near the railway crossing, and arrested the accused after a brief clash. The accused have been identified as Asif from Hatim Sarai in Sambhal and Rizvan, Shaukeen and Rahil from northeast Delhi.” “The accused confessed to have looted a Bank of India ATM in Sambhal of Rs 10 lakh on June 16 and a Punjab National Bank ATM in Moradabad of around Rs 17 lakh earlier this month. They would conduct a recce to identify unguarded ATMs and then hit the target,” added the SP. An FIR has been registered against all the accused under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/gang-involved-in-atm-robberies-in-moradabad-sambhal-districts-busted-four-arrested/articleshow/77113363.cms||Maria Khan
July 23, 2020||Madurai||TN village goes without streetlights for 35 days to make home for bird and its chicks||Madurai: Living up to the fabled tale of Tamil King Pari — one of the seven great patrons (kadai ezhu vallalgal) of the Sangam era who abandoned his golden chariot to help a climber take root — a village in Sivaganga district has gone dark without streetlights for more than a month now to save the hatchlings of an Indian Robbin (Copsychus fulicatus) that had turned the village’s community switchboard into its nest.A Karuppuraja, a college student of Pothakudi village in Sethambal pachayat near Maravamangalam in the district, said a common switchboard near his house has the switches for all 35 streetlights in the village. “When the lockdown began, I saw a bird filling the box with straw and leaves. When I looked into it, I could see three small greenish blue eggs with spots,’’ said the 20-year-old.The village youngsters had a common WhatsApp group called Pottakudi Ilaignargal Kuzhu. Karuppuraja shared the bird story and all 35 members of the group decided to ensure the bird nested in peace for the eggs to hatch. The group members went around the village convincing the nearly 100 households to refrain from switching on the streetlights till the nesting period gets over. H Kaleeswari, president of the panchayat, too, joined in, but with a caveat that all villagers must agree to the proposition.Some readily agreed. Others called it stupid to switch off lights for a small bird. But we managed to convince everyone and the entire village has gone without streetlights for 35 days now,’’ said N Muruganantham, a villager, with a sense of pride. “We have been managing with torch lights and light from our mobile phones,” said Selvi, another villager.Moorthy and Karthi, brothers, say they have been watching the chicks daily and that the birds have now grown tiny wings and look a lot like their mother. “We will clean the box and restore power after the winged visitors leave,’’ they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-village-goes-without-streetlights-for-35-days-to-make-home-for-bird-and-its-chicks/articleshow/77117125.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Hubballi||Shops can remain open till 9pm in Dharwad, says DC||DHARWAD: Following withdrawal of the 10-day lockdown two days before schedule in Dharwad district, deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil on Wednesday announced fresh guidelines for Unlock 2.0 with certain modifications. The new guidelines will be in force from July 22 to July 31. As per the new guidelines, all shops can stay open till 9pm and curfew orders will be in place from 9pm to 5am. Along with this, 'Sunday Lockdown' will continue. To contain rush in market areas, vegetable and fruit markets will be shifted to the spacious new APMC yard or any other vacant place. Parks will remain open, but children’s amusement areas and gym equipment shall remain closed. People will also not be allowed to sit on benches in parks. All prayer halls, temples, churches shall remain open but holding religious programmes or religious congregation is prohibited. All kinds of car festivals, urs etc have been banned. Strict measures in containment zones Shops cannot allow more than five people to enter at a time, while hotels can entertain only four people per table. Schools, colleges, tutorials and coaching classes, cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, sports complexes and theatres shall remain closed. Holding any kind of entertainment programme wherein large crowding is expected has been prohibited. A maximum of 20 persons can take part in a funeral and 50 persons can attend a wedding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/shops-can-remain-open-till-9pm-in-dharwad-says-dc/articleshow/77116019.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Hubballi||Villagers to penalise people from other places coming to participate in jathre||HUBBALLI: Although a jathre is traditionally associated with a religious occasion, it is much more than that: It is a community festival that occasions joy among all, cutting across lines of religion and other such divide. However, the Covid-19 crisis has perforce precluded the possibility of these occasions turning into carnivals of merriment. In Amargol village in Navalgund taluk, Dharwad, where the Sri Nagaswami (the deity also popular as Nagapajja) jathre is an annual fare, community elders have warned those coming from other towns and cities to participate in the occasion that they will be fined Rs 500, while residents who invite their relatives and friends will have to pay twice as much. One of the elderly citizens in Amargol Channappa Bandakeri said that the jathre, which has a history of more than 400 years, was scheduled to be held on July 25. “But in view of the Covid-19 crisis, the gram panchayat decided to cancel the jathre this time,” Bandakeri told TOI. Sanganagaouda Patil, another elder in Amargol, said that this was possibly the first time in five decades that the jathre had been cancelled. “Since there is a prevalent belief among devotees that the deity protects them from snake bite, which is why people from Karnataka and Maharashtra arrive to participate in the jathre in droves. The idea of imposing a fine is not to collect money but to check the spread of the pandemic. If any fines are collected, we will use it for the development of the temple,” he said. Amargol resident Basanagouda Patil said that none of the 6,000 people in the village had opposed the decision to cancel the jathre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/villagers-to-penalise-people-from-other-places-coming-to-participate-in-jathre/articleshow/77116206.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
July 23, 2020||Nagpur||Vid Covid-19 cases cross 10k with highest ever spike of 479||Nagpur: Registering highest ever single day spike of 479 Covid-19 cases, Vidarbha surpassed the 10,000-case milestone on July 22. While it took 133 days for the region to record 10,255 cases, about 55% of these (5,609) came in July alone. Deaths were reported from Buldhana, Yavatmal and Nagpur on Wednesday. A 57-year-old man from Khamgaon and a 55-year-old man from Deulgaon Raja, both under treatment in Buldhana district, died. A 46-year-old man from Yavatmal city died following which complete lockdown was announced in city from July 25 to August 1. In Nagpur, a 75-year-old from Dhantoli died at GMCH. Total toll of Covid-19 in Vidarbha surged to 275. Case fatality rate in region is around 2.7%.The 479 cases detected on Wednesday include Nagpur (122), Gadchiroli (71), Amravati (69), Akola (62), Yavatmal (54), Buldhana (48), Washim (20), Chandrapur (15), Wardha (11), Bhandara (6), and Gondia (1). In Gadchiroli, all 71 new cases are SRPF jawans. Now, the district has 250-plus jawans of SRPF, CRPF and police tested positive for Covid-19. On the other hand, 311 patients were discharged from hospitals. These include Nagpur (132), Amravati (88), Washim (27), Akola (19), Yavatmal (17), Chandrapur (11), Buldhana (7), Bhandara (6), Gondia (3), and Gadchiroli (1). Total 6,823 patients have been discharged from the region till date. This means, recovery rate is still above 65%. BULDHANA: A 75-yr-old man from Nandura was among six patients who recovered from Covid-19 in Buldhana on Wednesday. But, two patients, both under 60 years of age, died during treatment. Total 48 new patients were detected Covid-19 positive. Now, district has 834 Covid-19 patients, 24 deaths and 437 recovered. Buldhana now has highest number of Covid-19 deaths after Nagpur, Akola, and Amravati. This when the district is under total lockdown from July 7 which will go on till August 21. YAVATMAL: After death of a 46-year-old man from Islampura area in Yavatmal, the district administration has announced complete lockdown from July 25 to August 1 in Yavatmal city. Total toll in Yavatmal reached 23 on Wednesday. Record 54 new patients tested Covid-19 positive. Meanwhile, guardian minister Sanjay Rathod sanctioned Rs 1 crore from his fund to procure 16,000 rapid antigen test kits. AMRAVATI: The district is only 15 cases shy of 1,500 mark as a spike of 69 cases on Wednesday took the Covid case count to 1,485. The silver lining also came today when 88 patients-- highest to date-- got discharge to take the count of recovered patients to 986. With 42 deaths so far, the number of active patients stood at 457, including 14 being treated in Nagpur.Of the 69 cases, 21 came from rural areas of the district, taking rural count to 250. In city, Sahakar Nagar posted nine cases today, the highest from a single locality while Belpura reported three, including a six-month-old boy. Three cases also came from Shyam Nagar, a new locality. CHANDRAPUR: With detection of 15 more patients in Chandrapur, the figure of Covid-19 has now climbed up to 324 on Wednesday. Officials claimed 195 patients have been treated and discharged, while 129 patients are under treatment. Chandrapur city is now under lockdown and number of infected patients city have reduced substantially during last two days.All 15 patients found on Wednesday belong to rural areas of district and most of them are infected from contact of positive patients. Gadchandur town alone recorded six positive patients during the day. Administration has called upon the people not to step out of homes unless very necessary. Apart from six from Gadchandur, other patients belong to Hadgaon, Manora, WCL colony Ballarpur, Palgaon, Bhadrawati, Defence Colony in OF Chanda, Voltas Colony in Warora, Ambuja Cement in Upparwahi and Ranbothli.WARDHA: 11 coronavirus patients were found on Wednesday and infected patients are from Ashti, Arvi and Wardha tehsils. The total number of coronavirus cases in the district reached 120 and the total number of active patients are 47. Among the new infected patients foundare five patients from Dhadi village in Ashti taluka besides Wardha city-2, Anji (Mothi)-2, Arvi-1 and Jalgaon-1.GADCHIROLI: Sudden spike of 71 cases rocked Gadchiroli on Wednesday. This took total cases in district to 425 which include 286 jawans of SRPF, CRPF and state police. With 174 patients recovered and one death, Gadchiroli has 250 patients under treatment now. BHANDARA: Six patients recovered while six others tested positive in Bhandara district on Wednesday. New patients include two from Tumsar tehsil while four from Bhandara. Rapid antigen tests have started in Bhandara too. Total 1,080 rapid antigen tests have been done so far. Eight patients tested positive out of these 1080. Three patients out of 42 under-treatment patients in district have been referred to Nagpur as their condition is reportedly serious. Other 39 are being treated at Bhandara only. District now has 208 cases, 164 of them have recovered and there were two deaths. AKOLA: With 22 by rapid antigen testing and 40 by conventional RT-PCR testing, total 62 new cases were reported in Akola district. Now, total cases in Akola have reached 2,246. With 19 patients getting discharge after recovery, total 1,798 patients have recovered till date. Akola’s recovery rate is still above 80% which is highest amongst districts having more than 2,000 cases. WASHIM: With 20 new cases detected on Wednesday, Washim’s total number of Covid-19 cases reached 433. Whereas 27 patients recovered and were discharged the same day taking total number of recoveries to 235. Wahsim has reported nine Covid-19 deaths so far. Total 189 patients are under treatment. Two tehsils Mangrulpir and Risod which were under complete lockdown from July 15 to 21 got relaxations from July 22. Now, shops will remain open from 8 am to 2 pm in these two tehsils. Government offices in these tehsils will function at their regular timings. GONDIA: A resident of Civil Lines of Gondia city was found corona positive on Wednesday. Three patients were discharged after their reports came negative. Of them, one is from Govindpur of Gondia and two other hail from Goregaon tehsil. Now, Gondia has total 237 cases including 213 recovered and three deaths. Total 21 patients are under treatment here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vid-covid-19-cases-cross-10k-with-highest-ever-spike-of-479/articleshow/77116554.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 23, 2020||Mysuru||Online lessons for II PU students on YouTube||Mysuru: Given the significance that the second-year pre-university examination holds in the career of students, the department of PU education has started online classes, pre-recorded videos of lessons being uploaded on YouTube so as to ensure that students’ future is not affected by the Covid-19 crisis. Furthermore, many colleges in the state are also rolling out online classes for I PU students as well. The PU education department, buoyed following the conclusion of the II PU examinations, the results of which were announced recently, is now keen on ensuring continuity in the education of students through the academic year. Eager to keep the students engaged and get them to stick to a schedule, the PU department has decided to hold four sessions, the duration of each being 45 minutes, every day. The four sessions will be equally divided among two subjects each day. Principals and lecturers of all PU colleges have been asked to encourage their students to log in to YouTube for the online lessons so as to ensure maximum attendance. The classes will start at 9.30, and after the last session from 10.30 to 11.15, an additional 45 minutes will be earmarked for dictating notes. Commissioner of the PU education department M Kanagavalli told TOI that students with smartphones and laptops would be able to attend these online classes. “Those with no internet facility and without the necessary devices need not worry because the lessons will be covered again in the classrooms when the colleges reopen,” said Kanagavalli, adding that the students could start their lessons from Thursday. The YouTube channel for the online classes for II PU students is: www.youtube.com/c/dpuedkpucpa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/online-lessons-for-ii-pu-students-on-youtube/articleshow/77108649.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
July 23, 2020||Goa||Now, asymptomatic Covid patients can opt for home quarantine: CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Asymptomatic Covid-19 patients in Goa can opt to home quarantine themselves if they desire by applying online for permission for the same from the concerned deputy collector, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Wednesday. He said that in cases where entire families are testing positive but are asymptomatic, home quarantine is a better option. Sawant said that neighbours should cooperate and not discriminate against patients to make home quarantine of asymptomatic patients possible. “Across the country as per ICMR and IMA guidelines, there is an option available for an asymptomatic patient to home quarantine themselves and this SOP is followed across the country. As of now, we had not implemented it in Goa. We discussed it today during the cabinet. Those who are asymptomatic and are willing, and have the facilities at home like a separate bedroom with attached toilet can home quarantine,” the chief minister said. He said that the patient should also have equipment like oximeter at home and they should be in a condition to check their own parameters and inform the health authorities of his or her status while under home quarantine. “They will have to take permission by applying online to the deputy collector and state that they are undergoing the home quarantine willingly. The permission will be granted after someone from the collector’s office does a basic check from outside the home itself to see if the necessary facilities are available,” Sawant said. He said the move may face criticism in Goa, but it is a logical step for asymptomatic patients. “If there is a family of five where all have tested positive then there is no point in all going to the hospital. They can stay at home and take care of themselves by eating the kind of food they need. They being asymptomatic can carry out their chores as usual. They can take care of themselves better at home,” the chief minister said. “We should not look at a Covid positive person differently. Goans should not treat with bias those who are Covid positive or those in containment zones,” Sawant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/now-asymptomatic-covid-patients-can-opt-for-home-quarantine-cm/articleshow/77117127.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Goa||With 3 deaths in a day, state toll rises to 29||Panaji: The state’s Covid-19 death toll rose to 29 on Wednesday after three more persons succumbed to the infection. Also, with the detection of 149 new cases, Goa’s active case count went up to 1,607, even as 92 patients were declared cured and discharged. Wednesday’s deaths included a 50-year-old man from Fatorda and a 52-year-old from Bogda-Vasco, both of whom had co-morbidities and died at the ESI-Covid hospital. Later in the evening, another man, a 71-year-old from Mangor Hill, who was admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU), died of the infection. The state capital saw a sharp spike in cases after 14 new infections were detected, taking the city’s toll to 38. A couple in Bhatlem tested positive, and some of the other cases were reported in a building close to the municipal fish market. The Mayem health centre reported its first Covid-19 case on Wednesday, its first appearance on the official chart since the pandemic in March. On Tuesday, Aldona reported its first case. In Tivim, the panchayat building was shut down after a panch tested positive. The body said that it would remain shut till reports of all staff are received. Sakhali also saw 13 positives on Wednesday, taking its total up to 92. Colvale added three fresh cases to its tally, going up to 37. In South Goa, an inmate at a correctional facility in Carmona tested positive on Wednesday. A resident of Fatorda, he had attended a funeral in his village. After he complained of uneasiness, he was taken to the Chinchinim PHC. After testing positive, he was moved to the ESI-Covid hospital. All the other inmates at the facility, and also its staff, were tested, and their reports are awaited. The facility was sanitised and sealed. Carmona sarpanch Allwyn George said that inmates moved around the village to buy groceries and other items, and urged all those who came in contact with them to get tested. He also said that the panchayat would announce on Thursday that sanitisation of the areas surrounding the facility would be carried out with the assistance of fire personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-3-deaths-in-a-day-state-toll-rises-to-29/articleshow/77117131.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Agra||UP: 11 cops convicted of killing Bharatpur royal in 1985 get life terms||AGRA: Eleven former policemen held guilty for the murder of the royal scion of Bharatpur, Raja Man Singh, in a staged “encounter” 35 years ago were on Wednesday sentenced to life imprisonment. The Mathura district and sessions court also imposed fines of Rs 10,000 on each. The accused are all over 60 now; former DSP Kan Singh Bhati is 82. The sum collected from the cops as fine will be used to pay compensations of Rs 2,000 each to four persons injured in the clash between police and Singh the day he was killed. Another 30,000 will go to each relative of those who died — Singh and his two associates, Thakur Hari Singh and Thakur Sumer Singh. “Justice has been served,” said Singh’s daughter Krishnendra Kaur Deepa, a minister in Rajasthan’s previous BJP government. Deepa and her husband, Vijay, were among family members who attended the proceedings, the last in 35 years of a legal battle fought out in Rajasthan and then UP. Vijay was with Singh the day he was shot. It was after Singh had driven his vehicle straight into then Rajasthan chief minister Shiv Charan Mathur’s helicopter, angry that Congress had fielded a candidate in the assembly election despite a promise that no one would go up against him in his campaign for an eighth straight victory. Man Singh had never lost an election since India became independent. Mathur flying in to endorse retired IAS officer Brijendra Singh had pushed him over the edge. The following day, February 21, 1985, he was charged with attempt to murder — the helicopter’s pilot was still inside when he rammed into it — and hours later, he was shot dead in the middle of a busy street in Deeg, his seat of power. In the course of the hearings — the case moved from Rajasthan to UP in 1990 after Singh’s family approached the Supreme Court about the possible influence Congress could wield over the proceedings — more than 200 witnesses were produced. The defence lawyer, Nandkishor Upamanyu, had sought minimum sentence for the cops. They were all retired, suffering from multiple ailments, and had not got promotions, pay revisions because they had been suspended, Upamanyu argued. “All of them were found guilty under Section 149 (unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the IPC. Hence, the minimum sentence should be awarded.” While this brought one battle to an end, the royals of Bharatpur remain mired in another — Singh’s nephew Vishwendra Singh is one of 18 Congress rebels who are in the Sachin Pilot camp in the standoff with Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot. The legislator is among two, the other being Bhanwar Lal Sharma, who have been suspended from the party. On Monday, Vishwendra had said the state’s Congress government was trying to “murder democracy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/11-cops-convicted-of-killing-bharatpur-royal-in-1985-get-life-terms/articleshow/77114489.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
July 23, 2020||Bareilly||Woman, 4-year-old son die after tree falls on them as heavy rain lashes Sambhal dist||BAREILLY: A 21-year-old woman and her four-year-old son lost their lives after an old tree came crashing down on them amid heavy rain on Bahjoi-Babrala road under Dhaneri police station in Sambhal on Tuesday evening. According to police, four people, including the child, were on their way to Kundarki from Dhanari on a bike to buy medicines when a tree fell on them due to heavy rainfall when they were crossing Bahjoi-Babrala road. The victims have been identified as Zarina and her son Arman. The bodies were sent for postmortem, while the other two who sustained severe injuries were referred to a higher medical centre, said police. Dhaneri police station SHO Ravindra Pratap Singh told TOI, “After passers-by informed police, a team rushed to the spot and called a crane to rescue the victims who were crushed under the tree trunk. The mother and son sustained grievous injuries and died on the spot, while two other family members, Guddu and Afsar, sustained severe injuries.” “All four were rushed to the district hospital, where doctors proclaimed the mother-son dead upon arrival. The bodies have been sent for postmortem, while the condition of the two others is stated to be critical. They were referred to a higher medical centre in Moradabad,” added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-4-year-old-son-die-after-tree-fallson-them-as-heavy-rain-lashes-sambhal-dist/articleshow/77113385.cms||Maria Khan
July 23, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Corona slips into old-age home in New Town||KOLKATA: Residents of Snehodiya — the senior citizens’ home in New Town — have been asked not to move out of the campus and their kin have been requested to limit their visits to prevent the spread of Covid-19 infection. The move came after one of the inmates tested positive and was hospitalized earlier this week. The patient, a 70-year-old man had mild fever and complained of breathing trouble when he was tested and found Covid positive. His wife was also tested, but she was negative and continues to live in the same apartment where she stayed with her husband at the senior citizens’ home. The authorities have contact-traced few persons on the premises with whom the patient had come in contact and they have been asked to stay in home isolation. “The man who contracted the disease often used to step out to and visit the local market. It is possible, he may have contracted the disease from there. His condition is, however, stable,” said an official of Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco), the custodians of the home. Debasis Sen, the chairman and managing director of HIDCO, said that after the man was tested positive, the entire complex was fumigated and sanitized. “We have urged residents not to panic,” he said. “We fumigated the room where the patient lived and have asked all others who had come in contact with him to stay in isolation till we test each \of them. Doctors have been consulted. We have also advised all the residents to not to step out of the complex and get all the essentials delivered to their apartments,” said Sen. Inaugurated in June last year, the G+10 building has around 150 odd serviced apartments. An official said that a HIDCO and two NKDA staffers also tested Covid-19 positive. They are in home quarantine and their offices were sanitized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/corona-slips-into-old-age-home-in-new-town/articleshow/77116561.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
July 23, 2020||Nagpur||Vid Covid-19 cases cross 10k with highest ever spike of 479||Nagpur: Registering highest ever single day spike of 479 Covid-19 cases, Vidarbha surpassed the 10,000-case milestone on July 22. While it took 133 days for the region to record 10,255 cases, about 55% of these (5,609) came in July alone. Deaths were reported from Buldhana, Yavatmal and Nagpur on Wednesday. A 57-year-old man from Khamgaon and a 55-year-old man from Deulgaon Raja, both under treatment in Buldhana district, died. A 46-year-old man from Yavatmal city died following which complete lockdown was announced in city from July 25 to August 1. In Nagpur, a 75-year-old from Dhantoli died at GMCH. Total toll of Covid-19 in Vidarbha surged to 275. Case fatality rate in region is around 2.7%. The 479 cases detected on Wednesday include Nagpur (122), Gadchiroli (71), Amravati (69), Akola (62), Yavatmal (54), Buldhana (48), Washim (20), Chandrapur (15), Wardha (11), Bhandara (6), and Gondia (1). In Gadchiroli, all 71 new cases are SRPF jawans. Now, the district has 250-plus jawans of SRPF, CRPF and police tested positive for Covid-19. On the other hand, 311 patients were discharged from hospitals. These include Nagpur (132), Amravati (88), Washim (27), Akola (19), Yavatmal (17), Chandrapur (11), Buldhana (7), Bhandara (6), Gondia (3), and Gadchiroli (1). Total 6,823 patients have been discharged from the region till date. This means, recovery rate is still above 65%. BULDHANA: A 75-yr-old man from Nandura was among six patients who recovered from Covid-19 in Buldhana on Wednesday. But, two patients, both under 60 years of age, died during treatment. Total 48 new patients were detected Covid-19 positive. Now, district has 834 Covid-19 patients, 24 deaths and 437 recovered. Buldhana now has highest number of Covid-19 deaths after Nagpur, Akola, and Amravati. This when the district is under total lockdown from July 7 which will go on till August 21. YAVATMAL: After death of a 46-year-old man from Islampura area in Yavatmal, the district administration has announced complete lockdown from July 25 to August 1 in Yavatmal city. Total toll in Yavatmal reached 23 on Wednesday. Record 54 new patients tested Covid-19 positive. Meanwhile, guardian minister Sanjay Rathod sanctioned Rs 1 crore from his fund to procure 16,000 rapid antigen test kits. AMRAVATI: The district is only 15 cases shy of 1,500 mark as a spike of 69 cases on Wednesday took the Covid case count to 1,485. The silver lining also came today when 88 patients-- highest to date-- got discharge to take the count of recovered patients to 986. With 42 deaths so far, the number of active patients stood at 457, including 14 being treated in Nagpur. Of the 69 cases, 21 came from rural areas of the district, taking rural count to 250. In city, Sahakar Nagar posted nine cases today, the highest from a single locality while Belpura reported three, including a six-month-old boy. Three cases also came from Shyam Nagar, a new locality. CHANDRAPUR: With detection of 15 more patients in Chandrapur, the figure of Covid-19 has now climbed up to 324 on Wednesday. Officials claimed 195 patients have been treated and discharged, while 129 patients are under treatment. Chandrapur city is now under lockdown and number of infected patients city have reduced substantially during last two days. All 15 patients found on Wednesday belong to rural areas of district and most of them are infected from contact of positive patients. Gadchandur town alone recorded six positive patients during the day. Administration has called upon the people not to step out of homes unless very necessary. Apart from six from Gadchandur, other patients belong to Hadgaon, Manora, WCL colony Ballarpur, Palgaon, Bhadrawati, Defence Colony in OF Chanda, Voltas Colony in Warora, Ambuja Cement in Upparwahi and Ranbothli. WARDHA: 11 coronavirus patients were found on Wednesday and infected patients are from Ashti, Arvi and Wardha tehsils. The total number of coronavirus cases in the district reached 120 and the total number of active patients are 47. Among the new infected patients foundare five patients from Dhadi village in Ashti taluka besides Wardha city-2, Anji (Mothi)-2, Arvi-1 and Jalgaon-1. GADCHIROLI: Sudden spike of 71 cases rocked Gadchiroli on Wednesday. This took total cases in district to 425 which include 286 jawans of SRPF, CRPF and state police. With 174 patients recovered and one death, Gadchiroli has 250 patients under treatment now. BHANDARA: Six patients recovered while six others tested positive in Bhandara district on Wednesday. New patients include two from Tumsar tehsil while four from Bhandara. Rapid antigen tests have started in Bhandara too. Total 1,080 rapid antigen tests have been done so far. Eight patients tested positive out of these 1080. Three patients out of 42 under-treatment patients in district have been referred to Nagpur as their condition is reportedly serious. Other 39 are being treated at Bhandara only. District now has 208 cases, 164 of them have recovered and there were two deaths. AKOLA: With 22 by rapid antigen testing and 40 by conventional RT-PCR testing, total 62 new cases were reported in Akola district. Now, total cases in Akola have reached 2,246. With 19 patients getting discharge after recovery, total 1,798 patients have recovered till date. Akola’s recovery rate is still above 80% which is highest amongst districts having more than 2,000 cases. WASHIM: With 20 new cases detected on Wednesday, Washim’s total number of Covid-19 cases reached 433. Whereas 27 patients recovered and were discharged the same day taking total number of recoveries to 235. Wahsim has reported nine Covid-19 deaths so far. Total 189 patients are under treatment. Two tehsils Mangrulpir and Risod which were under complete lockdown from July 15 to 21 got relaxations from July 22. Now, shops will remain open from 8 am to 2 pm in these two tehsils. Government offices in these tehsils will function at their regular timings. GONDIA: A resident of Civil Lines of Gondia city was found corona positive on Wednesday. Three patients were discharged after their reports came negative. Of them, one is from Govindpur of Gondia and two other hail from Goregaon tehsil. Now, Gondia has total 237 cases including 213 recovered and three deaths. Total 21 patients are under treatment here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vid-covid-19-cases-cross-10k-with-highest-ever-spike-of-479/articleshow/77116566.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 23, 2020||Kolkata||Oldies’ recovery spreads hope after virus arrest||KOLKATA: The recovery of elderly residents of an old age home in Salt Lake adds a glimmer of hope for the Covid-affected. The management of the senior citizens’ home said state health secretary N S Nigam personally supervised the mass testing of the 43 inmates on July 7, their treatment and strict isolation, knowing that most of these aged people had co-morbid conditions and were in the high-risk group. Ten inmates of Bairag, the old age home run by NGO Saptadweepa, in Salt Lake’s IB Block, had tested positive and eight beat the disease. Five of the 10 members who tested Covid positive were aged between 70 and 80. One was a cancer survivor and another had undergone bypass surgery. “Most of the inmates have chronic diseases. They have now beat the deadly virus and tested negative for Covid-19,” said Shakuntala Patnaik, president, Saptadweepa. IB Block has remained a containment zone since the death of the first elderly. Ranjit Chakraborty (70), who suffers from diabetes and hypertension, was admitted to CNCI, New Town, along with two others. They returned on Tuesday. He said, “We were looked after well by the state healthcare workers and are safely back at Bairag now.” Five others were in the home’s care, monitored by the health department while in isolation at the Saptadweepa’s second campus, Pushparghya in HB block. “They all fought off the virus without any antiviral therapy or medication,” Patnaik said. The first among the inmates to have tested Covid positive died on July 5, a day after he was admitted to AMRI, Salt Lake. The 95-year-old had mild symptoms of fever and cough, but was taken to the hospital after he fell and broke his limb on July 3. He tested positive at the hospital. Another inmate, aged 90, died on his way to Apollo hospital. He had tested positive when mass swab tests were conducted at old age homes, at the behest of the health secretary. “After the two deaths, we were feeling quite hopeless knowing that people older than 65 tend to experience more severe Covid-19 symptoms. We informed Nigam and he organized everything — from mass testing to hospital admissions and the monitoring of those in isolation. We were expecting the worst. Much to our relief, even those with severe co-morbidity issues survived the infection,” Patnaik said. The rest, who tested negative, are not letting their guard down and are mostly confined to their rooms. When out of their rooms, they wear masks and maintain social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/oldies-recovery-spreads-hope-after-virus-arrest/articleshow/77116563.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
July 23, 2020||Goa||Comet Neowise may be seen in Goa||Panaji: Comet Neowise, which is passing by earth, may be visible from Goa very low on the horizon. Owing to the monsoon conditions, the skies may not be very clear, due to which the comet cannot be witnessed by the naked eye but the comet should be visible through binoculars or a telescope, the Association of the Friends of Astronomy (AFA) said. The comet will be closest to earth on July 23 and will pass at about 103 million km from the Earth. “For us in Goa, the comet apparition was unlucky mainly because the days that the comet was supposed to put up its best show was overshadowed by some of the heaviest clouded skies of the monsoon and incessant rain all over the state,” AFA president Satish Nayak said. He said that the main days of visibility have already passed but hopes are still intact to sight it on Thursday. The astronomical photography team of the AFA has attempted to capture the comet on camera but has not been able to see it owing to poor visibility. “We haven’t managed to catch a single glimpse of the elusive visitor since the past two days,” Nayak said. The astronomers are worried that there may be no more chance of seeing the comet in Goa if the weather conditions over the west coast continue to be overcast. “The comet is in a very low northwesterly alleviation which is impossible for us to catch from here. As days pass, it will rise higher but it will be dimmer,” Nayak said. Comet Neowise was spotted for the first time by NASA in March this year with the help of its Near-Earth Object Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer (NEOWISE) telescope. The comet is estimated to be about 4.6 billion years old. It’s now fading slightly as it exits the sSolar system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/comet-neowise-may-be-seen-in-goa/articleshow/77117137.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Chennai||Relief for pet breeders as Madras HC restrains officials from seizing animals||CHENNAI: Officials should not seize dogs and other pets from their breeders, traders and owners for violation of new breeding rules introduced by the central government. Restraining animal welfare authorities from taking such coercive actions, the Madras high court on Wednesday said dogs as pets are big stress-relievers. “Pet owners who are already facing Covid-19 threat cannot be made to face the threat of losing their dogs also,” the first bench of Justice A P Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said. Recording the submissions of Kennel Club of India supporting dog breeding and that of animal welfare NGOs which viewed unregulated breeding as cruelty to animals, the bench said, “Dog-breeding has become a fight between socialism and elitism.” The court then passed the interim order keeping in view the Covid-19 situation existing as on today, particularly, in Tamil Nadu. The issue pertains to the plea moved by Kennel Club challenging the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Dog Breeding and Marketing) Rules, 2017 notified by the central government on May 23, 2017. As per the rules, dog breeders must compulsorily register with the animal welfare department. Violation of registration will result in seizure of dogs owned by the breeder. This apart, the regulation prohibits ‘cross-breeding’ and ‘line-breeding’ of dogs on the ground that it amounts to cruelty to animals. Aggrieved, the club moved the court contending that breeding would not amount to cruelty to animals. “Framing of such rules by the Centre clearly amounts to an incompetent exercise of delegated legislation which is constitutionally impermissible as breeding falls under state subject as per the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act,” advocate R Srinivas said, representing the club. Whereas, animal welfare NGOs who have impleaded themselves in the case and assistant solicitor general of India G Karthikeyan contended that breeding per se may not be cruelty, but, breeding in violation of certain norms relatable to dignified animal existence of pets amounts to cruelty which falls under the purview of the central government.As Karthikeyan said the Centre is ready with a counter, the bench directed the petitioner to file a rejoinder and adjourned the hearing to August 21 for further hearing. The bench also directed the NGOs and the Centre to assist the court by providing expert/research material to substantiate that unregulated breeding would amount to cruelty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/relief-for-pet-breeders-as-madras-hc-restrains-officials-from-seizing-animals/articleshow/77116573.cms||Sureshkumar
July 23, 2020||Bareilly||PTR building selfie-point at gate, beautifying nature centre to attract visitors||PILIBHIT: The authorities of Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) have set up a “selfie point” for tourists at the gateway to the wild stretch of PTR’s jungle safari, and are also beautifying the nature interpretation center (NIC) in Mahof forest range. PTR deputy director Naveen Khnadelwal said the step was taken in view of the growing craze among visitors to capture selfies, especially at attractive destinations. The department has earmarked Rs 15 lakh for the project, which they expect will attract tourists and increase footfall. “The selfie point being built is expected to be ready before the beginning of the jungle safari season on November 15,” said Khandelwal. “We’ve assigned the work to nature artist and designer Naushad, who is associated with the Noida-based studio Wisort. Naushad had earlier designed and developed a butterfly park in Lucknow zoo, whose beauty inspired us to engage him to create the selfie point at PTR,” he added. Following Naushad’s advice, a number of dummies of wild animals were also set up at NIC — the centre for visitors to discover more about PTR’s wildlife diversity, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ptr-building-selfie-point-at-gate-beautifying-nature-centre-to-attract-visitors/articleshow/77113410.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Rajkot||SCW seeks police report in SU girls harassment case||RAJKOT: The Gujarat State Commission for Women (SCW) has sought a report from the Rajkot city police regarding the allegations of physical and mental harassment levelled by the girl students of Master of Physical education (MPed) against two lecturers. GSCW chairperson Leela Ankoliya said “We have asked the police commissioner to submit the report into the allegations within a week. We are expecting report next week. Sacking the lecturers is a welcome step by the university.” RS Thaker, police inspector, University Road police station told TOI: “We have been asked to submit a report and are conducting our inquiry. We have collected the relevant documents from the university.” Two girls, including one student from Upleta who had reportedly left the course mid-way due to harassment, had written to the vice-chancellor describing their trauma. In some earlier applications by students, Rana was accused of giving yoga lectures without a proper degree. The Upleta student had sent a complaint to vice-chancellor (VC) Nitin Pethani on July 16 stating that she was studying in the department in 2018-19 but left the course due to constant harassment. “I was forced to respond to messages sent after 10pm and told that I would get a gold medal if I complied," she stated in the complaint. The student said she gathered courage after getting to know that another girl had also filed a similar complaint. In the complaint filed by a present student, she also made similar allegations and claimed to know at least two other girls who left the course mid-way due to harassment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/scw-seeks-police-report-in-su-girls-harassment-case/articleshow/77114532.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand MLA approaches assembly Speaker against US Nagar DM, demands action against officer for making ‘objectionable remarks’||Dehradun/Rudrapur: Rajesh Shukla, BJP MLA from Kichha has approached the state assembly Speaker Prem Chand Aggarwal with a breach of privilege notice against Udham Singh Nagar DM Neeraj Kharwal. MLA Shukla alleged that Kharwal made “objectionable remarks” against him in a meeting and demanded action against the officer. The meeting in question was held on July 17 and besides Shukla and the DM, state cabinet minister Madan Kaushik, was also present. The MLA alleged that DM Kharwal “misbehaved” with others as well during the meet. In an interaction with the TOI, the Kiccha MLA said, “I have been elected to office by the public and therefore, I do have the right to question an official on any development-related project, ongoing projects, or works which have been completed or any other public welfare related issue. During the meet, I asked DM Khairwal to give me some details about the ongoing works. To this, he said that he has a weak memory and many projects are being carried out in the district. Is this how you reply to a simple public welfare related question? The official was doubting my memory and skills.” The two-time Kichha MLA went on to add that DM Khairwal “misbehaved” with others as well during the meet. “Be it the traders, who had gone to meet him, or the statehood agitators, he has misbehaved with all of them. If this is the way he behaves with notable dignitaries, one can assume his approach towards the public,” said the miffed legislator. Demanding appropriate action against the official, MLA Shukla added, “I have also spoken with the Speaker and apprised him of the entire episode. He directed me to forward the notice which I have.” Meanwhile, Khairwal has denied any wrongdoing saying “nothing of this sort happened in the meeting as is being alleged.” “No such thing, which the MLA is claiming, took place,” the DM said. It is worth mentioning that the two have been at loggerheads for quite some time now. Last year, DM Khairwal was pulled up by state transport minister Yashpal Arya for reaching late to the oath-taking ceremony of panchayat members of the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-mla-approaches-assembly-speaker-against-us-nagar-dm-demands-action-against-officer-for-making-objectionable-remarks/articleshow/77114564.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 23, 2020||Vadodara||DIC instructor caught taking Rs 4,000 bribe||VADODARA: Anti-corruption bureau (ACB) nabbed an assistant instructor working at District Industry Centre (DIC) in Chhota Udepur on Wednesday. The accused Jitendrakumar Solanki was arrested for accepting a bribe of Rs 4,000 from a woman to approve subsidy amount of Rs 76,000. The woman had applied for a loan of Rs 2 lakh under the Shri Vajpayee Bankable scheme of state government as she wanted to start a beauty parlour of her own. After her loan was approved, she became eligible for a subsidy of Rs 76,000 on the loan amount. The woman met Solanki for approval of subsidy amount. However, Solanki demanded a bribe of Rs 6,000. ACB officials said that after negotiations, Solanki agreed for Rs 4,000. Since the woman did not want to pay the bribe, she approached ACB and a trap was laid to nab Solanki.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/dic-instructor-caught-taking-rs-4000-bribe/articleshow/77115525.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Rajkot||Shops, mall penalized for misbranding||RAJKOT: Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) imposed penalty of Rs 2.17 lakh on five big shops and a mall under Food Safety and Standard Act for selling misbranded and substandard dry fruits and chikkis. The civic body had earlier collected samples a few days back which were sent for laboratory testing in Vadodara. Based on the lab report, RMC officials submitted a proposal to the resident district collector, who is an adjudicating authority. RMC food inspector Amit Panchal said, “Misbrand means violation of labelling regulation of Food Safety Act. Names, address of manufacturers, batch number, content logo, nutrition logo should be mentioned on the packet. Sub-standard food means the package food does not meet standard mentioned by the law.” Among those penalized include Avenue Super market on Gondal Road which was fined Rs1 lakh for selling misbranded American almonds, and Shree Ram Dairy at Govind baug for Rs 30,000 for selling sub-standard farm paneer (loose).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/shops-mall-penalized-for-misbranding/articleshow/77114552.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Goa||Changes to Panchayat Raj Act not in July 27 session||Panaji: The proposed amendment to the Goa Panchayat Raj Act, 1994 seeking to route construction licences or occupancy certificates for multi-dwelling real estate projects through the block development officers (BDOs) will not be introduced in the forthcoming assembly session. “We have made further changes to it. The file has gone to the law department again. We will be issuing an ordinance thereafter,” panchayat minister Mauvin Godinho said. The move comes in the wake of a meeting held by some sarpanchs and panchayat members at Corlim, Tiswadi on Tuesday. They will soon take up the issue with chief minister and panchayats minister. Their contention was that there was no clarity on the amendment and it shouldn’t be passed in a hurry as they were not taken into confidence. Reacting to their contention, Godinho appealed the sarpanchs to understand the amendment first and then react. “The panchayats that are crying hoarse don’t have the knowledge about the amendment. Without seeing the amendment, they are opposing it,” he said. The amendment was earlier planned to be introduced in the upcoming assembly session scheduled on July 27. Panch members from Corlim, Taleigao, Agacaim, Divar, Cumbharjua, Chimbel among others were present at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/changes-to-panchayat-raj-act-not-in-july-27-session/articleshow/77117148.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Angered by death of patient, kin sets ambulance ablaze in Belagavi||BELAGAVI: Angered over the death of a 55-year-old Covid-19 patient, his family members set an ambulance on fire near the Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences (BIMS) here late Wednesday night. The patient, suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, was admitted to BIMS on July 19 and tested positive for coronavirus. A crowd of about 100 persons, including family members, gathered at BIMS and went on a rampage. The mob pelted stones at the hospital and parked vehicles and manhandled Group D workers of the hospital. The mob came to the road in front of the hospital and set ablaze an ambulance which came from Athani taluk and pelted stones at police vehicles. The ambulance was destroyed and tension prevailed for nearly an hour with police resorting mild caning. BIMS director Dr Vinay Dastikop said doctors, nurses and other workers were brought inside the hospital. Over 250 patients are currently in the facility. The police said a case was registered and a probe has begun. A source said two persons were arrested. Deputy commissioner M G Hiremath said family members became agitated and resorted to violence. “We have increased security arrangements and a police vehicle has been deployed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/angered-by-death-of-patient-kin-sets-ambulance-ablaze-in-belagavi/articleshow/77115891.cms||Shreyas HS
July 23, 2020||Nagpur||Ignou students will have to appear for exams, says varsity notification||NAGPUR: Indira Gandhi National Open University (Ignou) has ruled out cancellation of exams for any of its students. On Wednesday, it issued a notification regarding the exam schedule. As per the UGC guidelines, final year/semester students will appear for the written exam in September while the others will appear in December. The varsity’s Academic Council members met on Tuesday and reached a decision that written exams have to be held for students, regardless of the year/semester they are enrolled in. Lakhs of students are enrolled in the varsity and many were hoping that those in intermediate years/semester will get promoted following cancellation of exams. However, TOI had reported last week itself that Ignou is unlikely to do away with exams due to ‘technical’ issues. These technical issues, as told to TOI by a very high ranking official at Ignou, are related to the varsity’s status as a distance learning institute. “We have to ensure credibility of degrees issued by Ignou. Majority of our students are professionals who are study on the side. And the time frame to complete a three year degree is up to six years. So to compromise on quality by skipping exams for a complete year/semester won’t help their cause,” said the official. The same official also cited the bi-annual admission cycle as another reason of conflict over who gets the waiver. “Admissions are done in January and July, with exams held in December and June respectively. So technically, only those who were due to appear in June should get the waiver because that’s when the lockdown happened,” said the official. Then there is the possibility of some students who should have appeared in January 2019 term end exams (TEE) but chose to skip and appear in June, and demand exam waiver. “To how many people will the waiver be given,” the official had told TOI before the Academic Council meet. Though final year/semester exams are to be held in September, not all students will be eligible to appear for it. The last date of filling the TEE form for September 2020 is July 31. Regional centres will inform students about practical examinations (if applicable). The Wednesday Ignou notification also clarified that those unable to appear for the September TEE due to the ongoing pandemic, will be given another chance in December TEE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ignou-students-will-have-to-appear-for-exams-says-varsity-notification/articleshow/77116600.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 23, 2020||Aurangabad||HC: Initiate disciplinary action against policeman||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of Bombay high court has asked police commissioner Chiranjeev Prasad to initiate appropriate disciplinary action against senior police inspector of Mukundwadi Sharad Ingale, who on July 2,1 had stated before the court that political activist Milind Shriram Patil was not traceable to serve the conviction warrant.Following this, the high court, on July 21, had directed both the police commissioner and the inspector to remain present for hearing on July 24 if the police fail to serve the conviction warrant.Later, Patil was traced and arrested on July 22 and is currentky lodged in Harsul jail. The government pleader informed the high court of these developments on July 24, when the matter came up for hearing.The petitioners — Komal Navinchandra Patni and others — had approached court earlier this year, seeking directions to police to serve a conviction warrant that has not been issued for the past five years stating that Patil was not traceable. Patil, was convicted on October 30, 2015 for offence punishable under section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 (dishonour of cheque for insufficiency, etc, of funds in the account) vide section 255 (2) of the code of criminal procedure code and was sentenced to suffer simple imprisonment for a period of one year. He was also directed to pay the compensation of Rs 60 lakh to the original complainants/petitioners.While disposing of the criminal application on July 24, the high court bench, comprising justices Ravindra V Ghuge and M G Sewlikar, also took note of the sequence of event including the arrest of the activist. “This material should be considered by the commissioner of police (Aurangabad) and appropriate disciplinary proceedings should be initiated against the senior police inspector so as to find out as to whether it could be said that he was negligent or had connived with the convict or had shown laxity in the performance of his duty. We make it clear that we have not expressed any opinion, which will influence the enquiry proceedings,” the bench said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-initiate-disciplinary-action-against-policeman/articleshow/77247557.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
July 23, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal records highest single-day jump in coronavirus infections||Bhopal: In the highest single-day jump in Covid cases in the state capital, 210 fresh infections were reported in Bhopal on Wednesday. In the last two days, Bhopal has reported 310 new infections, with over 1,200 active cases. So far, about 4,800 patients have been diagnosed with Covid-19 in Bhopal, leading to 142 deaths.On Wednesday, the Madhya Pradesh government decided to impose a total 10-day lockdown in Bhopal. It will remain in force from July 24 to August 4. New cases of Covid-19 were reported from 24 police station areas in Bhopal on Wednesday.The situation in Bhopal deteriorated as soon as the lockdown was lifted. An average of 68 patients were found daily or 3,561 in these last 52 days since lockdown ended in Bhopal.Among those diagnosed with the infection is a former director of Indian Institute of Forest Management (IIFM). He, along with four others, were diagnosed with Covid-19 in Char Imli. CID, PHQ, reported one more infection case. RAF (Bangrasia) reported two more positives. A Piplani police station SI tested positive, leading to quarantine of the police station. All staff who came in close contact with the SI would also be tested.. Similarly, staff of Aishbag and Chhola Mandir police stations were also diagnosed with the infection. Over 200 security personnel have tested positive for Covid-19 since May.SBI LHO reported four more patients of Covid-19. One more infection case was reported from boys’ hostel (E-block) in Gandhi Medical College (GMC). An AIIMS junior resident also tested positive. PNB Colony at Idgah Hills has also reported new infections.Chandukhedi and Gupta Colony reported four positives each. In Shivaji Nagar, three people were diagnosed with the infection. Two of them are from the same family. Sanjay Colony reported four positives, which includes three members of the same family. Professor colony reported two more positive cases. Arera Colony (E-3, E-6 and E-7) reported seven more positives. Shymla Hills and British Park covered campus (Ratibad), 4-bunglow (Mindori), Saket Nagar, Trilanga, Bima Kunj, Girnar Vallay (Ayodhya bypass), SRG Campus also reported new infection cases. Red Square Society (Jatkhedi), Crystal Ideal City and Shivlok Colony, BDA Colony (Koh-e-Fiza), Kabira Apartment, Shaheed Nagar, Kotra (same family) reported two positives each. Similarly, 12-bus stop (Arera Colony), Ashok Vihar (Ashoka Garden) reported two positive. Indus Town (Ratanpur) again reported a positive case. Two persons of the same family tested positive from Shankaracharya Nagar and Mata Mandir, Shyam Nagar, Barkheda. A doctor has tested positive from Pragati Parishar, Depot Chowraha. Guru Govind Narayan Modern Town reported one positive. D-Mart, Barkhedi, reported a positive case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-records-highest-single-day-jump-in-coronavirus-infections/articleshow/77116595.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Goa||Goa: Korgao locals alarmed, claim leopard killing pet dogs in area||MAPUSA: Panic was rife at Korgao in Pernem taluka after a family said their pet dog had been killed by a leopard on Monday night. Locals claim that this is the third incident of a pet dog being killed by the big cat, which they say has been lurking in Pethechawada, Korgao, for the past two months. “The dog was tied right at the entrance of our house. Blood stains were splashed all over the walls. We fear for our cattle, children and ourselves as four houses, including ours are isolated from the main locality,” the owner of the dog, Kanta Harmalkar, said. Local panch member Vasant Desai said the panchayat has informed the forest department about the issue and has demanded that a trap be laid to ensure that the leopard is rescued before it attacks any other animal or person from the area. Villagers said pug marks of the big cat have been spotted in the area and feared that the growing incidence of stray dogs taking shelter in houses would make for easy prey and lead it to attack humans, too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/korgao-locals-alarmed-claim-leopard-killing-pet-dogs-in-area/articleshow/77117161.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Rajkot||Two men on bike shoot dog to death in Dhoraji||RAJKOT: Two motorcycle borne persons killed a dog by firing on it from a 12 bore double barrel gun near BRC Bhavan in Dhoraji of Rajkot district on Wednesday afternoon. “The man who fired has been caught on the CCTV cameras installed at the site of the incident. We have launched a manhunt for him,” said Hakumatsinh Jadeja, inspector with Dhoraji police station. “We have booked the accused under the Arms Act, Animal Cruelty Act and under sections 429 and 114 of the Indian Penal Code,” added Jadeja. The accused were booked on the complaint of an animal rights activist, Ashish Jethva. Cases of cruelty against animals, especially dogs, are on the rise in Saurashtra and Kutch. On June 26, a native of Nagaland working at a resort in Adipur town of Kutch district had strangled his pet pup after it soiled the floor of his room. The accused, Khumkili Sangatam, had even gone on to record the act on his cellphone and send it across to his friends in his home state. After a member of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) watched the video and approached the police, leading to the arrest of Sangatam. On June 29, one Rahul Chawda was arrested in Porbandar for clobbering a stray puppy to death in Jhundala locality of the coastal town with a stick. Chawda said that as he was annoyed by the constant whining of the puppy, he had decided to kill it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-men-on-bike-shoot-dog-to-death-in-dhoraji/articleshow/77114586.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu records 5,849 cases, its highest single-day spike||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu recorded its highest spike in daily Covid-19 cases, adding 5,849 cases on Wednesday. The total tally now stands at 1,86492. The state added 522 more deaths, including 444 reconciled ones, which pushed the cumulative toll to 3,144. The case fatality rate in the state stood at 1.6%, while the recovery rate was 60%. Health secretary J Radhakrishnan said the state has increased testing in districts, which led to an increase in daily cases. On Wednesday, the number of people tested was 58,475 across 113 authorised laboratories compared to 50,055 on Tuesday. At the end of the day, 4,910 people were discharged and 51,765 were still under treatment. “The state has increased testing exponentially across all districts. This is to ensure we test and isolate as many positive people as possible. Without a vaccine or drug of choice, this is our only tool to stop the spread,” Radhakrishnan said. Unlike several other states, the state will conduct only RT-PCR tests. While all districts recorded cases, hotspot Chennai had 1,171 fresh cases and 16 other districts recorded cases in three digits. Tiruvallur registered 430 cases while Ranipet 414. Districts adjoining Chennai together logged 978 cases. Kancheepuram registered 325 cases, Chengalpet 223, Tiruvannamalai 210, Villupuram 105 and Cuddalore 71. The 10 southern districts added 1,666 cases, the highest single day rise so far. Virudhunagar (363) and Tuticorin (327) crossed the 4,000-mark after Madurai, which has 8,705 cases. The eight districts in the Central region recorded 482 cases, taking the tally to 8,087. Trichy, which reported 213 positive cases, reported its highest single-day surge while Thanjavur registered 106 cases. In the western region, Coimbatore and Salem remained high-prevalence districts breaching the 2,500-mark. Coimbatore recorded 178 cases and Salem reported 99 cases. Among the 74 deaths reported on Wednesday, 21 were from Chennai and the three neighbouring districts added 10 more. There were 18 deaths in the southern districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-records-5849-cases-its-highest-single-day-spike/articleshow/77116610.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Dehradun||6 booked in Haridwar for raping minor||Haridwar: A 15-year-old girl was raped in Haridwar by her friend. The police registered a case against six persons, including the hotel owner who gave them a room. SHO Ranipur police station Yogesh Dev told TOI, “The victim is a student of Class IX and the accused met her through a social media platform. The accused, Shahnawaz Khan, brought the girl in Jwalapur area where he booked a hotel room with the help of his friend, and raped her. A case has been registered against Khan, Sameer, Abid, Asif and Vaibhav who are residents of Khanpur’s Landhora village, and the hotel owner Sumit Walia under section 376 (rape), 120b (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC and relevant sections of POCSO Act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/6-booked-in-haridwar-for-raping-minor/articleshow/77114671.cms||MS Nawaz
July 23, 2020||Bhopal||Masjids seek clarity over animal sacrifice||Bhopal: Festivities have taken a back seat this year, as the virus continues to prowl. Eid-ul-Adha (Bakra Eid), too would be a low-key affair this time. Bhopal will enter a ten-day lockdown from Friday. Also known as ‘feast of sacrifice’, this festival will be celebrated on August 1— the tenth day of Dhu al-Hijjah (the twelfth and the last month of the Islamic calendar). No mandis for sale of animals would be functional across the state. While, transaction for the same can be convened through phone call or online medium. However, the masjid committees seek more clarity over the animal sacrifice as meat shops and slaughterhouses will remain shut due to the lockdown. “We support measures to contain the infection. However, there needs to be clarity over the animal sacrifice or ‘qurbani’, as we understand the government has not permitted use of slaughterhouse. A delegation is expected to meet the state government in this regard. This time, it will be a low-key affair and the prayers will be offered at homes instead of mosques,” said a member of masjid-committee. With few days left for the festival, the process of procuring cattle for sacrifice has begun in many areas.  The district administration has not permitted any mandis. It would further be trimmed down with lockdown the ten-day lockdown. Adapting to the corona times, many traders are selling cattles through social networking sites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/masjids-seek-clarity-over-animal-sacrifice/articleshow/77116617.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Goa||Cabinet grants nod for hiring nurses, lab technicians||Panaji: The state cabinet on Wednesday gave its approval to hire more contract staff in state-run ICU facilities. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said that the government has already tested over one lakh persons, and appealed to those with co-morbid conditions to take better preventive measures. He also said that the state government has passed the required orders banning N95 masks with valves. “We will be taking additional ICU nursing staff and technicians for DMLT path lab specially for Covid. The cabinet has given its approval. Thirty nurses and 10 to 20 laboratory technicians will be hired on contract basis. Ex-post facto approval was given for Covid-related purchases in the directorate of health services to the tune of Rs 61 lakh. The expenditure is mainly on test kits and N95 masks,” Sawant said. He said Goa is the only state where even those who are brought dead to any hospital are tested for Covid-19 postmortem. “Of the three Covid deaths yesterday, two were brought dead. Only in Goa, even if someone is brought dead to any hospital, the body is sent to Goa Medical College and throat swabs are collected and tested for Covid. Of the three deaths, two bodies were tested post death and it was confirmed as Covid deaths,” Sawant said. Over 1.1 lakh have been tested in Goa which has a population of 15 lakh, he said. “There are patients with co-morbid conditions across Goa. Family members of such patients need to be extra cautious. The government cannot go to the homes of all those with co-morbidities to take care of them. We have tried to raise awareness accordingly. Even in containment zones, we ensure that those with co-morbidities are tested on priority,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cabinet-grants-nod-for-hiring-nurses-lab-technicians/articleshow/77116621.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Goa||Goa: Ponda continues to sanitise public areas to beat coronavirus||PONDA: Several public places, including the Shankar Parvati Ganesh temple, residence of MLA Ravi Naik and shops at Khadapabandh ward of Ponda town were sanitised on Wednesday. No case has been reported in the locality. Local councillor William Aguiar said that areas frequented by people have been sanitised Firemen attached to the Ponda central fire station sanitised the temple area as people are likely to visit the temple as it is Shravan. The drive continues from Tuesday when Ponda police station was sanitised. As two more policemen tested positive for Covid on Monday, the number of infected policemen has touched 38. The first two policemen were tested positive for the virus on June 30 and within 21 days, the number of infected policemen rose to 38. “30 have already been cured and are home quarantined. Only 8 are at a Farmagudi care centre,” Ponda DySP Nelson Albuquerque said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ponda-continues-to-sanitise-public-areas-to-beat-virus/articleshow/77116618.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Nagpur||286 G’chiroli jawans +ve ahead of ‘martyrs week’||NAGPUR: With 286 security personnel, including 88 paramilitary jawans, testing positive for novel coronavirus (Covid-19) infection till date, Gadchiroli district police are facing a peculiar situation ahead of the Martyrs Week of the Maoists that is observed between July 28 and August 3. Though many of the personnel have been discharged, substantial numbers are still recuperating at hospital. Moreover, 71 jawans of State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) testing positive in the last few days, the number of state’s special armed police force personnel with Covid infection has gone up to 194 in Gadchiroli. Challenge before the forces is set to increase with the approaching Martyrs Week when the rebels step up their activities in memory of slain comrades and the founder of Naxalite movement Charu Majumdar. Three banners of Korchi area committee of Maoists in North Gadchiroli propagating the upcoming Martyrs Week have already surfaced indicating the preparedness of the Reds to step up the ante. Gadchiroli superintendent of police Shailesh Balkawade said Covid spread was mainly among jawans who were already kept in isolation at different quarantine centres. “The jawans who have tested Covid positive are the ones who had returned from leave and were supposed to relieve the ones on duty. Covid could not penetrate the deployed force in the district,” said Balkawade. “We have taken due care of the jawans deployed in the district by providing them immunity boosting dosages and personalized sanitizer kits in ample numbers,” he said. Balkawade also said the banners put up by the Maoists are not serious threat as they are being put up by Red supporters in villages (area rakshak dal or ARD) and gram rakshak dal (GRD) who are being monitored and arrested by us. “We have upper hand in the district after neutralizing two seniormost Maoist leaders like Srujan Akka and Soma (Perimili Dalam commander) which has dealt a substantial blow to the movement,” said the SP. The Maoists have also lost considerable support base and strength in the district, he added. The tally of Covid positive jawans in the district includes 194 jawans of SRPF, 88 from Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), two of Border Security Force (BSF) and two from the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/286-gchiroli-jawans-ve-ahead-of-martyrs-week/articleshow/77116627.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 23, 2020||Goa||Colleges to accept fees in instalments||Panaji: All college students in Goa under the purview of the directorate of higher education, enrolled from first year to final year of degree programmes, will be allowed to pay their fees in instalments for the academic year 2020-21, director of higher education Prasad Lolayekar said. The decision has been taken in view of the ongoing pandemic, officials said. Many parents have lost their jobs or business, even faced cuts in salaries due to the pandemic, which is what seems to have prompted the decision. “This year because of the Covid crisis, students are allowed to pay their fees in instalments. This will be applicable for all graduate programme students from the first to final year,” Lolayekar said. Students joining first year will have to pay only Rs 855 for now as enrolment fees and the remaining fees can be paid in instalments during the rest of the academic year, he said. He said that the first round of first year admissions has also been extended by the directorate by three more days up to July 26. “This has been done as results of central boards like CBSE and CICSE were declared late because of the lockdown ,” Lolayekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/colleges-to-accept-fees-in-instalments/articleshow/77116626.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Patient dies, relatives attack doctor||BENGALURU: Relatives of a deceased Covid-19 patient allegedly assaulted a doctor on duty at KC General Hospital, Malleswaram, on Tuesday night. A woman, aged around 40, suffering from influenza-like illness and fever was admitted in a non-Covid ward of of the hospital on July 19. Her throat swabs were collected the same day and sent for examination. However, her condition deteriorated on Tuesday afternoon and she slipped into coma by evening. At this stage, citing non-availability of beds in the ICU, the doctors asked the woman’s family to shift her to another hospital. By night, the woman died and the enraged family members blamed the doctors for the death. While all this was happening, the medical reports of the woman reached the family and it said she had been positive for coronavirus. The hospital staff refused to give the body saying it’s against the rule to hand over the remains of a Covid-19 patient. “A heated argument broke out between the family and the doctors. The doctor, who had attended to the woman, was assaulted. Other doctors and hospital staff intervened and brought the situation under control,” police said. The doctor had not filed complaint till Wednesday evening. Police said they are speaking to him to get him register a case at the earliest. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP-north) N Shashikumar visited the hospital and requested the doctor to file a complaint. “The hospital management said they will file a complaint soon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/patient-dies-relatives-attack-doc/articleshow/77115898.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Pune||Man dies after kin lose time looking for ICU bed for 10 hours in Pune||PUNE: A 33-year-old man with Covid-19 like symptoms died on Wednesday after his family lost crucial time running around for 10 hours on Tuesday to get an ICU bed in a hospital. His tests results are awaited. His is the sixth such death in Pune when family members of critically ill patients could not find ICU beds in hospitals in time. The Pune Municipal Corporation has ordered an inquiry. The deceased man’s friends and relatives staged an agitation at Alka Talkies Chowk on Tuesday night when they were unable get an ICU bed for the man, a Dhayari resident. He was admitted to a private hospital on Ahmednagar Road. The PMC’s dashboard on Tuesday showed that 40 ICU beds were available in hospitals. “We called many hospitals, but they said no ICU beds were available with them, ” a relative said. The deceased man had consulted his family doctor when he developed symptoms a few days ago. He started feeling breathless at home on Tuesday afternoon. His family got an ambulance with oxygen and took him to two private hospitals on Sinhagad Road, but were turned away. More searches in the vicinity were fruitless. At 8pm, they reached a leading hospital in Navi Peth, but no ICU bed was available. The oxygen cylinder was nearly over by then. Distressed family members agitated near Sambhaji police station with the patient in the ambulance. The police officers, with help from an NGO, some journalists, and PMC staff found an ICU bed at a hospital on Ahmednagar Road and the patient was admitted there late on Tuesday night. Doctors began treating him but he grew critical and was put on ventilator support. He succumbed on Wednesday. Surgeon Rakesh Neve, a managing head of Kasturba Hospital in Vishrantwadi where the man was undergoing treatment, said the patient was severely breathless at the time of admission. “He was promptly intubated and put on ventilator support. He was improving somewhat on Wednesday, but developed respiratory complications and died of acute respiratory distress syndrome and respiratory failure due bilateral pneumonitis, possibly due to Covid-19 infection. His test report is awaited,” he added. (With inputs from Umesh Isalkar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-dies-after-kin-lose-time-looking-for-icu-bed-for-10-hrs/articleshow/77116624.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Bhopal||Brace for 10-day long lockdown in Bhopal from Friday||BHOPAL: With a record high of 202 cases in a day in Bhopal, home minister Narottam Mishra ordered a 10-day lockdown in the state capital on Wednesday. The shutdown will come into effect from 8pm on Friday (July 24) and will last till 8am on August 4. “Stock up on essentials you need in the next couple of days as nothing, except for medical shops, milk parlours and vegetable and fruit shops, will be open during the period,” Mishra said on Wednesday evening. “In the wake of Coronavirus situation in Bhopal and in the interest of the people, we have decided to impose a total lockdown in the district for 10 days from 8pm on July 24. Uninterrupted supply of milk, medicines, vegetables and fruits will continue. Please cooperate and remain cautious,” CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan tweeted. This comes a day after lockdown was clamped on 15 localities of Bhopal – including Kamla Nagar, Bagsewaniya and large parts of Old City. On Wednesday afternoon, more areas went into ‘local lockdown’ -- Avadhpuri, Karond, Nishatpura and Airport Road. Just before 8pm, after a cabinet meeting, minister Mishra announced a 10-day citywide lockdown. The district borders will be sealed during the period and e-pass would be needed to get in or out, just as in the early lockdown days, Mishra said. Apprehensions of a re-locking were mounting for the past fortnight or so with Bhopal topping the July chart in number of cases (1,880). As of Wednesday, it had 1,330 active cases. The trigger was the 157 new cases reported in Wednesday’s health bulletin, with Bhopal again topping the table. The CMHO office, in fact, put the day’s tally at 202. This is the first time Bhopal count has crossed 150. During the daily Covid review meeting with the CM, it was found that positivity rate in Bhopal district is 10.2%. Realising that local lockdowns wouldn’t be enough, the administration went for a citywide clampdown. Milk supply and pharmacies will stay open. As will vegetable shops. Delivery of essentials will continue. PDS outlets will also remain open, and those running PDS shops have been asked to provide foodgrain and other essentials to poor families in the next two days, the minister said. Government offices will operate with presence of officials and “minimum necessary staff”. Industries will also remain in operation. The CM had said two days ago that economic activities shouldn’t be hit in the lockdown. The next cabinet meeting will be held via video-conferencing, minister Mishra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/brace-for-10-day-long-lockdown-in-bhopal-from-friday/articleshow/77116638.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Goa||‘Mining lease areas out of TCP purview’||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday said that the state cabinet had approved an amendment to the Town and Country Planning Act, 1974, to take mining leases out of the town and country planning department’s (TCP) jurisdiction. He said that the decision has been taken for ease of doing business. “As per Town and Country Planning Act, 1974, for minor minerals clearance, one had to go to TCP for approval. As per ease of doing business, mining leases have been removed from TCP jurisdiction. Once it is decided as lease, mines department will look at it,” Sawant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mining-lease-areas-out-of-tcp-purview/articleshow/77116623.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Goa||Locals oppose, sarpanch says tower needed||Saligao: Residents of Parra on Wednesday objected to the installation of a mobile tower in the vicinity of a residential complex in the village. They claimed that such towers emit high levels of radiation which could pose several health hazards to people. However, Parra sarpanch Delilah Lobo said such towers were needed specially during crises such as the Covid-19 pandemic, when almost everything has moved online. “How will poor students who cannot afford WiFi connections at their homes access online classes if there is poor network?” she told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/locals-oppose-sarpanch-says-tower-needed/articleshow/77117174.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Cab operators hit Covid roadblock||Udhagamandalam: With no end in sight to the coronavirus pandemic, tourist taxi drivers in the hill retreat are taking up construction and farming work to make ends meet.There seems to be no hope for the drivers this year, president of the Ooty Tourist Taxi and Maxi Cab Drivers’ Association S Govardhan said. “April and May are the only two months our vehicles are in demand. We depend on the income in those two months. Now, given the lockdown situation, our livelihood is at stake. Five months gone, we see no hope. Most of the tourist taxi operators are facing a grave situation,” he told TOI.There are over 1,000 tourist taxi operators in Ooty taluk. “We used to get little local business even during the normal periods. Now, due to the pandemic, people are scared to hire taxis even for an emergency,” he said. “Many taxi operators are doing construction work. They work as helpers.”“With two children and my parents at home, the last five months were difficult,” said taxi operator Sekar, who is working as a helper at a construction site. “I never thought I’d have to address something like this even in my wildest dreams.”The Nilgiris, being an economically backward district, offer not much job opportunities. “I am working in a farm for Rs 300 a day. The job is not regular,” said Kannan.The drivers will be forced to switch trade as tourism business in the Nilgiris will not be the same for a couple of years, Govardhan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cab-operators-hit-covid-roadblock/articleshow/77116646.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris records 12 new cases||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris recorded 12 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the tally to 528. While 279 patients recovered and were discharged so far, 247 positive cases of the virus are being treated at Covid care centres and government hospitals in Ooty and Coonoor. Patients exhibiting symptoms and with conditions of comorbidities are sent to ESI Hospital and Coimbatore Medical College Hospital in Coimbatore. According to health officials, around 80% of the positive cases of the virus are asymptomatic. The 12 new cases include seven women. Cases were reported from Ooty, Coonoor, Manjakambai, Thangadu, T.Oranalli, Thattanery and S.Kaikatty. While nine cases are linked to T.Oranalli wedding function, one case is secondary contact of the PRO of the private needle manufacturing company. The other two cases are contacts of earlier positive cases. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-records-12-new-cases/articleshow/77116643.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Pune||At 81%, Pune Cantonment registers best recovery rate in entire district||PUNE: The Covid-19 recovery rate in areas within Pune Cantonment Board limits is now just over 81%, the highest in all of Pune district. Data released on Wednesday showed that 627 patients in the cantonment have gone on to make successful recoveries, from a total of 769 cases so far. There are currently 120 active cases. Twenty-two patients have died. The PCB’s lead Sardar Vallabhai Patel General Hospital has not registered a single Covid-19 death. Some officials said this was because many critically ill patients from the cantonment board limits were being referred to other hospitals, including Sassoon. Amit Kumar, the chief executive officer of the PCB, told TOI on Wednesday that PCB hospitals are treating patients from PMC and rural areas too. “About 550 patients from PMC and Pune rural limits have been treated at our hospital, which was among the first dedicated Covid Health Centres to be set up in the city,” he said. Kumar added that early detection of serious illness among patients has helped authorities control the number of deaths. He said, “Early detection through aggressive testing in affected areas such as New Modikhana, Modikhana and Bhimpura helped us secure this recovery rate. In fact, in many cases, patients went on to recover within 10 days of hospital admission.” It is now known that Covid-19 can have a prolonged ICU recovery period — many patients have spent more than 14 days on ventilator support. Experts have said that early detection of serious illness can stave off intensive care. VD Gaikwad, resident medical officer of the PCB, said, “About 15 to 20 patients, out of a 100, needed oxygen-supported beds. We could meet this requirement as our general hospital has had 30 oxygen-aided beds since the start of the outbreak. Barely three to four critical patients in a month are being referred to other hospitals.” Kumar said, “We will start a 10-bed intensive care facility at our hospital soon and add another 10 ICU beds to the facility later. The Army Institute of Cardio Thoracic Science (AICTS) has also reserved 10 ICU beds for the treatment of critically ill Covid-19 patients from Pune cantonment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/at-81-pune-cantonment-registers-best-recovery-rate-in-entire-district/articleshow/77116640.cms||Sandip Dighe
July 23, 2020||Pune||Pune: 80-year-old man wins tough battle against coronavirus||PIMPRI-CHINCHWAD: When ocatagenerian Gulab Mulla was brought to DY Patil Hospital in Pimpri for Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) on July 6, 2020 after four other hospitals refused to admit him, the doctors were not certain about his chances for recovery. However, the patient was admitted to the facility since his grand-daughter worked at a nursing unit in DY Patil multi-speciality hospital. He had come in with low oxygen levels and was immediately shifted to ICU and put on a ventilator support. Over seven days, in dramatic turn of events, he was taken off the ventilator as he responded well to the treatment. Mulla, a diabetic patient with a heart condition, walked out of the hospital after being declared as Covid free on July 21. “We were closely monitoring him. The team of consultants, resident doctors of the respiratory medicine department and the support staff were on round-the clock-vigil. Within seven days, his oxygen levels shot up, he was weaned from the ventilator and shifted to the ward, " said Madhusudan Barathwal, head of department of respiratory medicine at the hospital. The elation of the family has not knew any bounds since then. The grandson brought the doctors sweets and the grand-daughter -- on her maternity leave -- is thankful to the doctors and the team. "You have helped me get better and protected me. God will protect you all," Mulla told the doctors and nurses, as he left the hospital on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/80-year-old-man-wins-tough-battle-against-coronavirus/articleshow/77116645.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
July 23, 2020||Goa||In a first, Goa University to hold online test for PG seats||PANAJI: The Goa University Admissions Ranking Test (GU-ART) Round III will be held on July 23 and 24 through online mode for admissions to postgraduate seats at the university and its affiliated colleges. Students will be taking the test through online portal mUni Pariksha. Students can appear for the examinations either through laptop or mobile app. The university will carry out an authentication process at the beginning of the exam. Students have been asked to keep their identity card, issued either by institutes or government authorities, for verification. It is mandatory for all students to follow the authentication process by uploading the image of their identity card followed by their own image, the university has instructed students. One test paper will be of 100 marks, containing 50 objective multiple-choice questions of two marks each. There is negative marking for wrong answer. No marks will be deducted for unanswered questions. The duration of GU-ART will be of 90 minutes. Of the 100-mark question paper, 20 questions will be in ‘most difficult’ level, 15 in ‘least difficult’ and another 15 in ‘difficult’ level. Goa University has said the results will also be declared online subsequently. Counseling for the PG seats will also take place through the online mode due to the social restrictions in view of the pandemic. This year, Goa University has accepted applications for admissions too online for students who have answered Round I and II. Candidates answering GU-ART Round III will be ranked after the previous round candidates, the university has said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-a-first-varsity-to-hold-online-test-for-pg-seats/articleshow/77116642.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Hyderabad||No takers, 16 BE colleges want to shut shop in Telangana||HYDERABAD: As many as 3,800 engineering seats are likely to be axed for the academic year 2020-21 as 16 colleges have applied for provisional or complete closure with the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTUH). The JNTUH is in its last lap of granting affiliation for the ensuing academic year. Officials said that many colleges that have applied for a no objection certificate on closure are in the districts. “Many of these colleges are located in districts and have received dismal admissions over the last few years. We are processing these applications seeking closure,” JNTUH registrar Manzoor Hussain said, adding that a majority of colleges were established in the early 90s and made a lot of revenue during the information technology boom. However, managements say that running a college in the districts does not give them any returns. The state government’s delay in releasing the fee reimbursement dues for the past few years has only made matters worse. “We barely made any revenue in the past few years as the number of admissions have been less than 100. Now, renting out the building to government or leasing it to a school will fetch us revenue of at least Rs 4-5 lakh per month,” a correspondent of a college management said. While many others have explored options such as converting the premises into a hostel or a paying guest facility, some have sold off the property. In view of Covid-19 pandemic, the JNTUH is not conducting physical inspection this year and is set to issue conditional affiliation. “We will conduct physical inspection once the situation is conducive. For now, we will issue a conditional affiliation before the commencement of the new academic year,” Hussain said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-takers-16-be-colleges-want-to-shut-shop-in-t/articleshow/77115918.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Goa||SGPDA fish mkt to reopen tomorrow||Margao: After remaining shut for a week, days after it reopened as the state entered into the unlock mode, the South Goa Planning and Development Authority’s (SGPDA) wholesale fish market will reopen from Friday with enhanced safety measures and strict monitoring mechanism in place. This was decided at a meeting held by South Goa collector Ajit Roy with SGPDA chairman Wilfred D’Sa and other officials, representatives of the wholesale fish traders association, Margao Municipal Council (MMC), and Fatorda police. D’Sa told reporters after the meeting that restricted and staggered timings of the market, systematic parking arrangement, and strict enforcement by the police, would ensure maintenance of social distancing in the wholesale fish market. The market will remain open during two time slots for wholesale fish trade – 6am to 10am and 4pm to 6pm. Fish vendors on two-wheelers will be allowed entry strictly between 8am and 10am. “We will allow fish vehicles inside the market in batches of 25 each,” D’Sa said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sgpda-fish-mkt-to-reopen-tomorrow/articleshow/77116647.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Coimbatore||178 fresh Covid-19 cases take dist’s tally to 2,539||Coimbatore: The district recorded 178 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases to 2,539. With 258 people discharged from hospitals and Covid care centres, the number of active cases dropped from 1,359 to 1,236.Despite putting in place containment measures, the virus seems to continue spreading seamlessly in the hotspots. A jewellery factory at Narasimanaickenpalayam, which was closed and made a containment zone on Saturday after eight people tested positive last week, has now seen 10 more of its employees testing positive. Another eight employees of the factor are expected to be declared positive on Thursday.“While we will now test the positive employees’ families and close contacts, the department is planning to test the other employees’ family members also,” a senior official said.Besides this, 33 more people from Selvapuram tested positive for the virus. While 17 of them were from Sami Iyer New Street, three were from Ashok Nagar, three from KC Thottam, two from Kaburaj Layout, three from Chetti Street, among others.The PRS Police quarters continued to see more cases. After seeing a positive case on Tuesday, the quarters saw a 36-year-old woman, a 35-year-old man and a 12-year-old girl test positive for the virus. Another 65-year-old woman from Ganapathy Police Quarters also tested positive. Officials say this could be a sign of more policemen testing positive and infecting their family members. All these were asymptomatic and found during contact tracing, which means they are being detected in the early stages of the virus. PRS Colony in Periyanaickenpalayam also saw a 45-year-old male testing positive.The virus continued to spread across every corner of the corporation and district limits with Ponnusamy Thottam in Kovaipudur recording six more cases, two cases in VPK Garden in Vellanaipattim, a family of four in Kalyan Nagar in Achipatti testing positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/178-fresh-covid-19-cases-take-dists-tally-to-2539/articleshow/77116629.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Spike in cases but no hike in beds||Coimbatore: In the last five days, Coimbatore recorded 740 cases, making the district with the highest number of Covid-19 active cases in the western region at 1,236. While the district continues to add close to 150 new patients a day, besides also handling symptomatic Covid-19 patients from neighbouring districts, the state government seems to be dragging its feet on increasing the bed strength in the primary Covid-19 hospital for the zone.The number of Covid-19 cases in the district nearly doubled from 538 cases on June 30 to 1,071 on July 1 and has increased by 1,300 patients over the next 20 days hitting 2,359 cases. While Coimbatore may have only 1,359 patients, it handles most of the active cases from Tirupur which stands at 270 and Nilgiris which stands at 237. Besides these two districts, Coimbatore continues receiving symptomatic patients from districts in the western and central regions including Karur, Namakkal, Salem, Dindigul, Dharmapuri, among others.With ESI Hospital having one of the most successful track records in treating Covid-19 patients, it is the most preferred destination for treatment among those who want in a government set up, especially for people who can’t afford treatment in the private sector. Though cases are galloping ahead in Coimbatore, Tirupur and Nilgiris, the state government seems to be showing no urgency in increasing bed strength. Health minister Dr C Vijayabaskar announced that they would increase the hospital’s bed strength from 400 to 900 as early last month, and as recently as Tuesday. “Work is already underway to add the 500 beds,” he said.ESI Hospital with 327 Covid-19 patients, has 73 beds left, which even if accommodating only 15 new symptomatic patients a day, from the three districts, may get full in the next five days. “For every 30 new patients we get daily, we are also discharging close to 40 to 60 patients a day and have been maintaining at 320-odd patients a day for the last fortnight,” a hospital official, while refusing to comment on the project to add 500 beds, said.District administration officials say the reason behind the delay in adding 500 beds is because their focus is now on adding beds to Covid care centres as 80% of the patients continue to be asymptomatic. “We are also mulling if patients can be sent to CMCH and Pollachi government headquarters hospital after ESI’s 400 beds get full, before increasing their strength to 900, so the patient load gets more evenly distributed,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/spike-in-cases-but-no-hike-in-beds/articleshow/77116641.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Rajkot||Rs 1 lakh ex gratia to students testing positive post-exams||RAJKOT: Saurashtra University (SU) has decided to give up to Rs 1 lakh as ex gratia to the students who get infected by coronavirus within 15 days of taking exams. At least 14,000 students are expected to take the final exams beginning July 25. The exams were rescheduled due to the lockdown. The exams for medical, paramedical and all post-graduate courses will start from August 4. All the exams will end on August 10. Students who get infected will be provided treatment in the hospitals in their respective districts and all the expenses on medicine, stay in hospitals or Covid care centres for medical treatment and others will be reimbursed. This will be done on the basis of supporting documents that will have to be depositied with a health support committee formed to dispose of the claims related to this scheme. “The decision to give ex gratia has been taken to instil confidence among students so that they can take exams,” said SU pro vice-chancellor Vijay Desani. The exam centres have also been increased and the seating arrangements have been made to enable social distancing. “Usually, 30 students are accommodated in one block of an examination centre, but looking at the Covid situation, we will allow only 15,” he said. This decision was taken in the syndicate meeting held on Tuesday following protest by student unions over conducting exams during pandemic. The benefits will be extended to those students who get infected within 15 days of appearing in exams. The colleges that will be converted into examination centres will have to sanitize the rooms every day after the exam and wearing masks will be compulsory during entire exam time. The colleges are required to use thermal guns to measure the temperature of students entering the exam halls. Students, who are unable to take the exam due to ill health or those found unfit in thermal screening, will be given a chance to appear in the supplementary exams after a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rs-1-lakh-ex-gratia-to-students-testing-positive-post-exams/articleshow/77114690.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Pune||Thirteen civic health staff members contract nCoV||Pune: Thirteen PMC health staffers, including clerical staff as well as senior officials, have tested positive of Covid-19, bringing to fore the vulnerability of frontline workers to the infection yet again. PMC officials said the staff members were from different departments, including accounts and health. Some of them took the tests conducted by the civic body for their staff members, while others went to the testing centre near their homes for rapid antigen tests. “The tests were conducted as these people are working in the frontline during the fight against coronavirus. The officials are getting treatment as per the protocol,” Ramchandra Hankare, head of PMC’s health department, said. Some of the staffers who have tested positive were involved in admitting patients in hospitals under the health scheme for the urban poor, the officials said, adding that they had responsibilities of completing documentation for the admissions of these patients and had direct contact with the patients’ relatives. The senior PMC officials testing positive were involved in activities like management of door-to-door survey to identify people vulnerable to Covid-19 infection. They were also associated with the study of high-risk citizens and people with co-morbidities like hypertension and other illnesses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/thirteen-civic-health-staff-members-contract-ncov/articleshow/77116653.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Goa||Usgao, Curti declared micro zones||Ponda: After 27 persons at Siddheshwarnagar and Avantinagar at Tisk-Usgao and nine people at Sindhunagar and Curti areas of Ponda taluka tested positive for Covid-19, both the areas were declared micro containment zones on Wednesday. Parts of Avantinagar and Siddheshwarnagar at Usgao, and some areas of Sindhunagar and Ganganagar in Curti have been declared as buffer zones. “It appears that a Ponda policeman has spread the infection in Usgao, but as six infected persons from Usgao run vegetable kiosks in the village, the infection could have a link to Belagavi as the vegetable vendor had a daily exposure to the inter-state supplier of vegetables,” an official said. One of the Curti patients is a government servant, and it is suspected that he must have spread the virus in the vicinity, he added. Another positive person from Curti was working in a local hotel. The Ponda fire personnel have sanitised the hotel as well as the colony where he is residing, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/usgao-curti-declared-micro-zones/articleshow/77116659.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Goa||Rane, Ticlo spar over GIDC, fire from babus’ shoulders||Panaji: Differences between industries minister Vishwajit Rane and Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) spilled into public domain and has dragged government bureaucrats into it. A disagreement between the BJP colleagues has government officials shooting off letters and throwing the rule book at each other. The spat comes at a time when the state’s industrial sector is looking for strong policy framework and support amid the Covid-19 pandemic. According to sources, the disagreement stems from Rane’s role in decisions taken by GIDC. Rane is not a member of the GIDC board, but as the minister for industries, he was being invited for GIDC board meetings. A board meeting was scheduled for Wednesday and the agenda for the meeting was shared with the industries department. On Monday, under secretary A S Mahatme wrote to GIDC managing director Derrick Neto saying that the GIDC board meeting could not meet without prior permission from the government. It meant that the approval was necessary of the industries minister. “I am directed to inform you that the government has once reiterated that there shall be no meetings of Goa Industrial Development Corporation without prior permission and clearance of the agenda from the government,” said Mahatme. Mahatme also said that he had been “directed” to issue “strict instructions” that no government official can attend GIDC board meetings without advance approval. “The government has issued instructions to postpone the meeting till further date and the next meeting shall be convened only as and when government decides,” Mahatme had written. This prompted Neto to write back and say that GIDC chairman Glen Ticlo had convened the board meeting and it would be held as scheduled. “I am directed to inform you that the board meeting of Goa-IDC has been scheduled by the chairman evoking his domain powers of Rule (1) as per the prevailing rules and regulations in force, notified in this regard, and hence the undersigned is unable to postpone the meeting at the undersigned level,” said Neto. Neto said that the letter from the industries department was put before Ticlo for decision. “The chairman has decided to proceed with the schedule meeting in the interest of the corporation and as it has been scheduled under the prevailing regulations,” said Neto. Further, said Neto, the chairman desires to be informed under which rules or regulations the government approval is required to be taken for holding board meeting and approving agendas. The board meeting went ahead as planned on Wednesday with routine administrative decisions being taken. Key policy decisions pertaining to a mobile tower policy for industrial estates, creation of industrial plots from the open spaces in industrial estates were deferred. The board meeting also discussed the delay in finalization of the consultant for the sale of the repossessed SEZ land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rane-ticlo-spar-over-gidc-fire-from-babus-shoulders/articleshow/77116654.cms||Newton Sequeira
July 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Renowned writer, literary critic Kovai Gnani passes away at 85||COIMBATORE: Tamil writer and Marxist literary critic Kovai Gnani passed away at his residence at Vellakinar here on Wednesday. The 85-year-old man died due to age-related ailments, his eldest son Pari Vallal told TOI. Born K Pazhaniswami in Coimbatore in 1935, Gnani studied Tamil literature at Annamalai University and worked as a Tamil teacher in a city school for three decades. Through the years, he became an influential voice in philosophy, literature and criticism, and deeply influenced modern Tamil letters and thought. Gnani lost his eyesight around 1988 to diabetes, but it didn’t deter his quest for reading and writing. He had an assistant, who would read out books to him. “Till his last day, he had books read to him,” said Vallal. He wrote around 50 volumes of literary criticism, Marxist theory and poetry, which have had a lasting impact. They include ‘Marxiamum Tamil Ilakkiyamum’ (Marxism and Tamil Literature), ‘Tamilil Naveenathuvam Pinnaveenathuvam’ (Modernism and Postmodernism in Tamil), ‘Kadavul Yen Innum Saagavillai?’ (Why Isn’t God Dead Yet?), and ‘Kallum Mullum Kavithaigalum’ (Stones, Thorns and Poetry). Writer Sirpi Balasubramaniam, with whom Gnani shared the platform in the Tamil literary magazine ‘Vanambadi’ from late 60s to early 70s, says, though in his student days Gnani was involved in spirituality, Coimbatore’s trade unions movements made him a Marxist. “He took Marxism to people through the magazines he edited and through sustained discussions. He also believed that Tamil literature was the basis for other thought processes.” Gnani’s influence on modern Tamil writing cannot be overemphasized. Modern writers and poets such as B Jeyamohan and Manushyaputhiran say it was he who published their early works in his magazine ‘Nigazh’. “He introduced my name to modern Tamil literature, as he did for several other young writers,” says Manushyaputhiran. Parallelly, Gnani’s philosophical trajectory lay in finding a common ground between Marxism, Indian Philosophy, and Tamil Identity. “He thought if Marxism had to become relevant here, it had to adopt traits of Indian reality,” Manushyaputhiran adds. This quest led him to form an idea of ‘micro Marxism’, as opposed to the ‘macro Marxism’ of the USSR, and subsequently led him to Tamil nationalism, says Jeyamohan. “Later, he published the magazine ‘Tamil Neyam’. He thought keenly on Marxism’s role in Tamil identity, spirituality and economy.” Though an uncompromising critic, Gnani was an approachable and gentle person, say those who knew him in person. “Even if he had to rebut our idea, he would do it in a gentle and friendly way,” says writer Pamaran. Coimbatore historian Perur K Jayaraman recalls that around 1996, when no printer here was ready to print Gnani’s book ‘Kadavul Yen Innum Saagavillai?’, he accompanied the writer to Sivakasi, stayed there for two days, and got the book printed. DMK president M K Stalin, Coimbatore MP P R Natarajan of CPM and PMK leader S Ramadoss condoled Gnani’s death. Gnani is also survived by his son Madhavan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/renowned-writer-literary-critic-kovai-gnani-passes-away-at-85/articleshow/77116657.cms||Vishnu Swaroop
July 23, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Inter-state passengers alight at smaller stations to avoid quarantine||BENGALURU: Several passengers coming to Bengaluru in inter-state trains from Mumbai and Danapur (Bihar) are said to be evading Covid-19 screening and home quarantine stamping over the past few weeks. In view of this, the railway board has decided to restrict stoppages of these trains from Friday. The government officials believe that these passengers have contributed significantly to the recent surge in positive cases. Many passengers from these states would de-board at smaller stations like Krishnarajapuram, Bengaluru East, Bengaluru Cantonment and Yelahanka, while screening by the BBMP and health and family welfare department is done only at KSR Bengaluru City railway station. “We used to request passengers to alight only at the city station but some passengers wouldn’t agree. Passengers of 01301 Udyan Express (CSMT Mumbai-KSR Bengaluru City) would de-board at Yelahanka and proceed to their homes,” said sources. SWR shares details of passengers travelling on these trains on a daily basis. “It is difficult to trace such passengers. Some of them would claim they had de-boarded in Andhra Pradesh. Many were not ready to travel all the way to the city station as they prefer to get down at the nearest station citing poor transport options. This has prompted the government to approach the railway board to eliminate stoppages at small stations,” said a SWR source. The first train from Mumbai reached Bengaluru on June 2. Initially, the state government insisted on institutional and home quarantine of seven days each, and also organized swab collection from those coming from Maharashtra since Mumbai was a hotspot. Later, the seven-day institutional quarantine and swab collection were stopped. Now, only 14-day home quarantine is required for inter-state passengers and only ‘home stamping’ is being done at the city station. Both 01301 Udyan Express (CSMT Mumbai-KSR Bengaluru City) and 02296 Sanghamitra (Danapur-KSR Bengaluru City) will now stop only at the city station. “There were fewer checks at smaller stations which is also one of the reasons for the rise in Covid-19 cases,” said a government official. Asked why the problem was with only these two trains, SWR officials said: “Other inter-state trains are not stopping anywhere in BBMP limits apart from the city station. For instance, New Delhi-Bengaluru Rajdhani has a stoppage only at the city station in BBMP limits. While Howrah-Yeshwantpur and New Delhi-Yeshwantpur Sampark Kranti Express trains are halting only at Yeshwantpur in the city limits.” “We’re conducting thermal scanning for passengers at stations for outbound-trains. The health department protocol applies only to inter-state incoming trains, so intra-state ones will not have any problem,” they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/inter-state-passengers-alight-at-smaller-stations-to-avoid-quarantine/articleshow/77115910.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
July 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Corpn needs more docs to conduct fever camps||Coimbatore: The Coimbatore corporation has asked the district administration and the state government to allot more doctors and staff to conduct fever camps more effectively in the city. Sources in the health department say that the corporation had asked the deputy director of public health to send more doctors and sanitary inspectors to the corporation. The corporation conducts around 100 fever camps in the city every day.Officials said the corporation has only 30 doctors as its staff. “We have asked for more doctors, including house surgeons and PG doctors, so that fever camps conducted in hotspots are more effective. We also need doctors to identify people with symptoms and collect nasal swabs of suspected patients,” an official said. “While they may not be able to get a doctor for every camp, it would be effective to have qualified professionals checking patients for symptoms. Even people without fever may have cCovid-19,” a health department official said.Meanwhile, to intensify contact tracing of positive cases and further adopt aggressive testing, the state government has asked the health department to increase the number of samples tested if required. The health department collects 4,200 to 4,300 samples a day. “We have also been asked to test all employees if cases come from industries, and if required divert private industries to private laboratories so that our samples are well distributed and there is no backlog,” deputy director of public health Dr G Ramesh Kumar said.ESI Hospital’s covid-19 capacity has been ramped up from 250 a day to 2,000 samples a day over the past two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpn-needs-more-docs-to-conduct-fever-camps/articleshow/77116652.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Pune||Engineer infected, IITM supercomputers shut again||Pune: India’s fastest supercomputer Pratyush at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) in the city was once again shut down on Tuesday night with the second supercomputer Aditya after one of the engineers handling them tested Covid-19 positive. The IITM authorities said the two systems would be restarted on Friday. Around five engineers working closely at the High Performance Computing (HPC) Data Centre housing the two supercomputers have been quarantined because they came in close contact with the patient. A source from the IITM said, “The engineer worked closely with five others, who may have come in contact with more people in the 25-member team handling the two supercomputers. Those who came in close contact are being traced. Since the engineers are highly specialised, we are looking for an alternative team that could handle Pratyush and Aditya.” Extended range weather and rainfall forecasts are dependent on the Pune supercomputers. The operational forecasts load has been temporarily shifted to supercomputers Mihir and Bhaskara in Noida. “As per protocol, the IITM has been closed for a few days for sanitization,” the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/engineer-infected-iitm-supercomputers-shut-again/articleshow/77116656.cms||Neha Madaan
July 23, 2020||Coimbatore||Guest workers will be given e-passes to come back: DRO||Coimbatore: The district administration will issue e-passes to guest workers willing to return to industrial units here, district revenue officer D Ramaduraimurugan said on Wednesday.“Since the lockdown was imposed, we have sent back 60,000 guest workers to their home states on special trains. If they are ready to return to their workplaces, we would give them e-passes. Industrial units can approach us for the passes,” the official, who was speaking at an online session on ‘The Impact of Covid-19 in MSME Sector and Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan’ said.Speaking about the state government’s efforts to support MSMEs amid the pandemic, B Karthigaivasan, general manager of the District Industries Centre in Coimbatore, said the state will provide 25% capital subsidy to MSMEs that manufacture medical necessities such as PPE kits. “The subsidy is to buy machines. The state will also procure products from such units for three months,” he said. Considering the pandemic situation, the interview processes for the Unemployed Youth Employment Generation Programme (UYEGP) and New Entrepreneur cum Enterprise Development Scheme (NEEDS) schemes have been suspended, the official said.Delineating metrics on the impact of the pandemic on MSMEs, R Ramamurthy, president of the Coimbatore District Small Scale Industries Association (Codissia), said 78.4% of MSMEs in the state have temporarily shut down. Quoting statistics from a survey conducted by Codissia, Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association, Tamil Nadu Small and Tiny Industries Association and IIT-Madras, he said 69.9% of the industries depended on loans from commercial banks to tide over the situation. “Banks should be ready to sacrifice a portion of their profit at this critical juncture. They should not charge accrued interest for MSME loans,” Ramamurthy said. “The moratorium on loans should be extended till March 2021, so that we can use the 20% loans we avail through the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme, for industrial consumption and to create demand, rather than to repay term loans.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/guest-workers-will-be-given-e-passes-to-come-back-dro/articleshow/77116660.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Fresh notification sought for assistant professors’ recruitment||VISAKHAPATNAM: Even two years after conducting a screening test for recruitment of assistant professors, the state government is yet to hold interviews for the qualified candidates. In January-February 2018, the then state government ended a decade-long impasse and released a notification to recruit about 1,100 faculty positions, the majority being assistant professors. Consequently, Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission held a screening test for assistant professor posts in April 2018. Meanwhile, some universities also concluded interviews for associate professor and professor posts in 2018, which do not require a screening test. But the recrtuitment process is caught in a legal tangle after a few applicants approached the high court. The Supreme Court had earlier made it clear that only a ‘department’ can be considered a unit while deciding reservations for recruitment, and not the ‘university’ or the institution. A majority of state universities, however, issued notifications by taking the university as a unit. Candidates who have qualified for interviews have held several protests and submitted representations to people’s representatives as well as officials, requesting that interviews be conducted. Even after two years, there is no clarity on how the government will take the recruitment process forward or when it will be completed. Secretary, University Grants Commission (UGC), Rajnish Jain, in an earlier letter, had asked vice-chancellors to take steps to fill vacant posts at the earliest. Jain mentioned that faculty shortage is a major concern in higher educational institutions and it should be addressed immediately for improving the quality of education. However, some aspirants demand the government begin a fresh recruitment process. Dr GKD Prasada Rao, guest faculty at the department of journalism and mass communication at Andhra University, said the recruitment process initiated by the erstwhile government has been stuck in court due to lacunae in the notification. “There were several technical issues even in the screening test conducted by the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) to recruit assistant professors. We demand the state government revoke the earlier notification and initiate a fresh recruitment as there were several irregularities in the screening test and the notification,” said Dr Prasada Rao. A source from Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) said the Council has been exploring various legal options to solve the issue. “The APSCHE is examining all the possibilities,” said the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/fresh-notificaton-sought-for-asst-profs-recruitment/articleshow/77114686.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
July 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Fresh notification sought for assistant professors’ recruitment||VISAKHAPATNAM: Even two years after conducting a screening test for recruitment of assistant professors, the state government is yet to hold interviews for the qualified candidates. In January-February 2018, the then state government ended a decade-long impasse and released a notification to recruit about 1,100 faculty positions, the majority being assistant professors. Consequently, Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission held a screening test for assistant professor posts in April 2018. Meanwhile, some universities also concluded interviews for associate professor and professor posts in 2018, which do not require a screening test. But the recrtuitment process is caught in a legal tangle after a few applicants approached the high court. The Supreme Court had earlier made it clear that only a ‘department’ can be considered a unit while deciding reservations for recruitment, and not the ‘university’ or the institution. A majority of state universities, however, issued notifications by taking the university as a unit. Candidates who have qualified for interviews have held several protests and submitted representations to people’s representatives as well as officials, requesting that interviews be conducted. Even after two years, there is no clarity on how the government will take the recruitment process forward or when it will be completed. Secretary, University Grants Commission (UGC), Rajnish Jain, in an earlier letter, had asked vice-chancellors to take steps to fill vacant posts at the earliest. Jain mentioned that faculty shortage is a major concern in higher educational institutions and it should be addressed immediately for improving the quality of education. However, some aspirants demand the government begin a fresh recruitment process. Dr GKD Prasada Rao, guest faculty at the department of journalism and mass communication at Andhra University, said the recruitment process initiated by the erstwhile government has been stuck in court due to lacunae in the notification. “There were several technical issues even in the screening test conducted by the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) to recruit assistant professors. We demand the state government revoke the earlier notification and initiate a fresh recruitment as there were several irregularities in the screening test and the notification,” said Dr Prasada Rao. A source from Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) said the Council has been exploring various legal options to solve the issue. “The APSCHE is examining all the possibilities,” said the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/fresh-notificaton-sought-for-asst-profs-recruitment/articleshow/77122299.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
July 23, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Youth dies in cop custody, CM announces Rs 10L ex gratia||VIJAYAWADA: A Dalit youth died after he was allegedly beaten up by police for going out without a mask. The incident happened at Chirala town in Prakasam district. The deceased was identified as Yaricherla Kiran Kumar from Thomaspeta area of Chirala town. The incident happened on July 18 when Kiran and his friend, Shiny Abraham, were stopped by cops at Kothapeta checkpost for violating Covid-19 guidelines by not wearing masks. They were also found to be drunk. As they were being counselled, Kiran attacked one of the constables, following which he was detained. While he was being taken to the police station, Kiran reportedly jumped out of the police vehicle and suffered a critical head injury. He was immediately rushed to a local government hospital where he succumbed to his injuries on Tuesday night. However, Kiran’s father blamed the cops for his son’s death and has lodged a complaint. “Forensic evidence shows there were blood stains on the road. Traces of his hair were also found at the place of impact. The breathalyser test showed Kiran’s blood alcohol level at 122 ml,” Prakasam SP Siddharth Kaushal said. He added that an inquiry has been ordered and a case under Section 176 of CrPC (custodial death) has been registered. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has announced an ex gratia of Rs 10 lakh for the bereaved family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/youth-dies-in-cop-custody-cm-announces-rs-10l-ex-gratia/articleshow/77122399.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
July 23, 2020||Pune||Over 36,000 Covid patients discharged in Pune, recovery rate 64%||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Tuesday recorded the month’s highest single-day discharge of Covid-19 patients. As many as 1,656 patients were discharged from across hospitals in the region, bringing the total number of recovered people to 36,027 so far. The recovery rate in the region now stands at 64%, up from 61% recorded on July 1. In fact, July has seen a marked improvement in outbreak control and patient care. For eight consecutive days now, hospitals in the region have been discharging over 1,000 patients every day. Testing too has increased — the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), for example, has been testing over 3,000 people daily, up from 400 per day in March. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) too has been managing over 3,000 tests daily across private and government labs. The increase in testing has enabled early-stage detection and faster hospitalisation. People with mild to moderate Covid-19 are being given care before conditions spiral. Dedicated Covid-care hospitals are also now focusing on patients with clear illness, after they were told not to admit asymptomatic positive patients — those with mild to very mild infection. Such cases can recover at home or at an isolation unit. A 51-year-old resident of Shivajinagar, who was recently discharged, said he was happy to be back home. “I was able to get a test immediately after developing a mild flu. After my positive result, I was admitted to a PMC-run Covid care centre, where I completed my isolation period,” he said. Over 24,270 patients have been discharged within the PMC limits so far (case tally stands at over 37,435). In the PCMC areas, another 8,417 have been discharged so far (from over 12,550 cases). And in the rural areas, as many as 3,347 people are now infection-free. Among the 36,027 people discharged in the PMR, 67% are from PMC areas, 23% from PCMC areas and 10% from rural areas. Health officials said early detection continued to be top priority. “Medical teams on the ground have been told to repeatedly survey residents of vulnerable areas. These surveys lead to early detection, early recovery and stop further complications,” an official said. Pune mayor Muralidhar Mohol, who resumed work two days ago after recovering from Covid-19, said: “My appeal to citizens is not to be anxious. Early detection and treatment are vital.” Sambhaji Khot, head of the PMC’s Sinhagad road ward office and who has been monitoring mitigation efforts, said announcements were being made across micro-containment zones to encourage testing among residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-36k-covid-patients-discharged-in-city-recovery-rate-64/articleshow/77116664.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 23, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: Youth dies in cop custody, CM announces Rs 10L ex gratia||VIJAYAWADA: A Dalit youth died after he was allegedly beaten up by police for going out without a mask. The incident happened at Chirala town in Prakasam district. The deceased was identified as Yaricherla Kiran Kumar from Thomaspeta area of Chirala town. The incident happened on July 18 when Kiran and his friend, Shiny Abraham, were stopped by cops at Kothapeta checkpost for violating Covid-19 guidelines by not wearing masks. They were also found to be drunk. As they were being counselled, Kiran attacked one of the constables, following which he was detained. While he was being taken to the police station, Kiran reportedly jumped out of the police vehicle and suffered a critical head injury. He was immediately rushed to a local government hospital where he succumbed to his injuries on Tuesday night. However, Kiran’s father blamed the cops for his son’s death and has lodged a complaint. “Forensic evidence shows there were blood stains on the road. Traces of his hair were also found at the place of impact. The breathalyser test showed Kiran’s blood alcohol level at 122 ml,” Prakasam SP Siddharth Kaushal said. He added that an inquiry has been ordered and a case under Section 176 of CrPC (custodial death) has been registered. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has announced an ex gratia of Rs 10 lakh for the bereaved family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/youth-dies-in-cop-custody-cm-announces-rs-10l-ex-gratia/articleshow/77122401.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
July 23, 2020||Shimla||Shimla MP Kashyap is new HP BJP chief||SHIMLA: Putting at rest all speculations, the BJP high command on Wednesday appointed prominent Dalit face of the party and MP from Shimla (SC) seat, Suresh Kumar Kashyap, as the new president of Himachal Pradesh unit of the party with immediate effect. He replaces Rajeev Bindal, who had recently resigned on moral grounds following the surfacing of a scam in the health department, in which the vigilance bureau had arrested the then director, health services. Kashyap, who will celebrate his 49th birthday on Thursday, is an ex-serviceman, who had served the Indian Air Force during 1988-2004, and is known to be a soft spoken person with the ability to take all factions along, sources said. With his appointment, BJP has tried to woo not just the Dalits and ex-servicemen, but also strike caste and regional balances. Kashyap at present is also the state president of party’s SC Morcha. As per the 2011 census, the Dalits constitute 25.02% of the total population of the hill state, which has total 68 assembly seats and the Dalits play a decisive role in 17 reserved seats. The sources said as chief minister Jai Ram Thakur comes from Rajput community, so having the state president from the Dalit community would give the party an edge in the 2022 assembly elections. According to the sources, the image of a soft-spoken person also went in favour of Kashyap, as he is being seen as a leader who would listen to all in the party and be acceptable to all. His appointment has also created a regional balance within the party, which has general secretaries from Hamirpur, Kangra and Mandi parliamentary seats, and the CM is also from Mandi. Kashyap had started his political career as member of Block Development Council from Pachhad in Sirmaur district in 2005-2010, after which he joined BJP in 2006. Then he became the district president of BJP SC Morcha from 2006 to 2009 and served as its state general secretary during 2009-2012. Before being elected as MP from Shimla parliamentary seat in 2019, Kashyap had been elected twice as MLA from Pachhad Assembly seat of Sirmaur district in 2012 and 2017. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has congratulated Shimla MP Suresh Kashyap for being appointed as the president of BJP in Himachal Pradesh. Kashyap on his part said that he will work to strengthen the party to ensure victory in 2022 assembly elections. He said the party would scale new heights in the state and further expand its base under his leadership. He said Kashyap has vast experience and is presently state president of Scheduled Caste Morcha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/shimla-mp-kashyap-is-new-hp-bjp-chief/articleshow/77116662.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Youth dies in cop custody, CM announces Rs 10L ex gratia||VIJAYAWADA: A Dalit youth died after he was allegedly beaten up by police for going out without a mask. The incident happened at Chirala town in Prakasam district. The deceased was identified as Yaricherla Kiran Kumar from Thomaspeta area of Chirala town. The incident happened on July 18 when Kiran and his friend, Shiny Abraham, were stopped by cops at Kothapeta checkpost for violating Covid-19 guidelines by not wearing masks. They were also found to be drunk. As they were being counselled, Kiran attacked one of the constables, following which he was detained. While he was being taken to the police station, Kiran reportedly jumped out of the police vehicle and suffered a critical head injury. He was immediately rushed to a local government hospital where he succumbed to his injuries on Tuesday night. However, Kiran’s father blamed the cops for his son’s death and has lodged a complaint. “Forensic evidence shows there were blood stains on the road. Traces of his hair were also found at the place of impact. The breathalyser test showed Kiran’s blood alcohol level at 122 ml,” Prakasam SP Siddharth Kaushal said. He added that an inquiry has been ordered and a case under Section 176 of CrPC (custodial death) has been registered. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has announced an ex gratia of Rs 10 lakh for the bereaved family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/youth-dies-in-cop-custody-cm-announces-rs-10l-ex-gratia/articleshow/77114703.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
July 23, 2020||Nagpur||Open entry points, lax security turning c-zones into free zones||NAGPUR: With over 224 containment zones in the city, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is finding it difficult to carry out health surveys for tracing people with symptoms of severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) and other respiratory diseases. The civic body also isn’t able to restrict movement as it had been proactively doing thus far. Cops too are conspicuous by their absence at the entry/exit points of containment zones. On Wednesday, TOI visited a couple of areas following complaints from citizens about lack of restriction on movement in containment zones even as cases are spiralling across the city. Blaming lack of security and open entry points as the reason for free movement, residents said the tin sheets used as barricades are the only hint that an area has been declared a containment zone. TOI also noticed that renovation and repair works have been undertaken at some homes at a colony in Mankapur, which is one of the containment zones under Mangalwari zone. As per NMC officials, construction activities are strictly prohibited in containment zones. Youngsters and passers-by were seen moving freely and even mingling with each other at small gardens and public places. Residents said this could spread the disease to other parts of the city through visitors, labourers and other persons coming to the area. Residents from Lokseva Nagar under Laxmi Nagar Zone too complained about lax security and free movement of outsiders. The situation was same at Surendragadh and parts of Friends Colony. At Ahbab Colony and Awasti Square, the NMC zone offices were yet to seal the areas where positive cases have surfaced in the last couple of days. In Byramji Town, the affected area was sealed but the open entry point allowed movement for all, even four-wheelers without any checks. Assistant municipal commissioners from these zones claimed that cops were deployed at all containment zones and surveys were under way. One of them said that the entry was open from one side to enable emergency movement and access to essential supplies as per norms. “The open part has to be shut using a roller-barricade by cops,” he said. Though Naik Talao remains under containment, movement of people is going unchecked. This despite presence of cops at three entry points. Another officer said the cops are planning to deploy home guards as police department is highly stressed now. Addl CP Nilesh Bharne didn't answer TOI’s calls. Deputy municipal commissioner Nirbhay Jain, who is in-charge of all C-zones, said entry points will be sealed if they have been left open. Regarding free access, surveys and spraying disinfectants, Jain said, “The task of putting up the tin sheets is assigned to private agency. We strengthen them. Surveys and spraying are very much going on,” he said. NMC’s problems have been compounded by the strike of Asha workers who had been surveying homes, a measure which largely helped in containing Covid-19 spread. As per insiders, civic chief Tukaram Mundhe ordered curtailing movements in C-zones in view of cases being reported daily from non-containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/open-entry-points-lax-security-turning-c-zones-into-free-zones/articleshow/77116693.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 23, 2020||Goa||Invite Covid warriors for I-Day function, Centre tells states||Panaji: The central government has written to states and Union territories to invite doctors, health and sanitation workers, and others involved in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic for the Independence day function on August 15. In view of the outbreak, states have been directed that programmes be conducted by following social distancing norms and avoiding large congregations. People should wear masks, vulnerable people attending the function should be protected and proper sanitisation facility should be made available, the Centre has stated. The states and Union territories have been directed to follow all guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs and the Union ministry of health and family welfare. Ceremonial hoisting of the national flag by a minister or sub-divisional magistrate should be held after 9am. The directions shall be also applicable to panchayats. Holding of ‘home reception’ at Raj Bhavan or Raj Niwas on Independence Day has been left to the discretion of the governor or lieutenant governor of the respective state and Union territory. Performances of police and military bands may be recorded at places of historic importance associated with the independence movement, and recorded versions may be displayed via screens or digital media during public functions on social media. Other functions that states can conduct are inter-school/inter-college debates on digital platforms, online quiz contests, essay competitions, launching of schemes and other activities that may be deemed appropriate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/invite-covid-warriors-for-i-day-function-centre-tells-states/articleshow/77116665.cms||---
July 23, 2020||Dehradun||DM orders probe into Har-ki-Pauri wall’s collapse||Haridwar: A day after heavy rainfall and lightning triggered a wall collapse at the Har Ki Pauri in Haridwar, DM C Ravishankar on Tuesday night ordered a probe into the incident. The DM has set up a committee to inquire into the matter and said that action will be taken against those found responsible for the mishap. The order comes after locals alleged that the wall’s foundation had become weak due to trenches made along it by the Uttarakhand Power Corporation Limited (UPCL) to lay underground cables. It was also alleged that the wall’s base further deteriorated due to leakage in underground water pipelines in the area. The inquiry report was to be submitted by Wednesday. However, it wasn't submitted till the time of filing this report. The inquiry committee consists of Deepak Kumar (executive engineer, PWD), Virendra Singh Pawar (executive engineer, hydel), Deepak Hatwal (deputy director, mining) and DK Singh (executive engineer, irrigation).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dm-orders-probe-into-har-ki-pauri-walls-collapse/articleshow/77114698.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
July 23, 2020||Shimla||Rare sighting of elusive snow leopards in Kullu sanctuary||MANALI: For the first time, rarely-sighted snow leopards — an adult and two cubs — have been documented on camera in the Great Himalayan National Park (GHNP) of Himachal Pradesh’s Kullu district. The elusive snow leopards, the state animal of Himachal Pradesh, were spotted multiple times last winter in Lahaul-Spiti district along human habitations and their videos recorded by residents of Hikkim village had gone viral on social media early this year. They are generally found above the altitude of 4,000 metres in summers and descend a bit lower during the winter season. There have been multiple claims of sightings of snow leopards in the national park, but their presence has been recorded on cameras for the first timeWildlife experts used to lay special trap cameras in the high altitude isolated areas of Spiti valley, far away from villages, to capture the movement of snow leopards. Now, similar cameras have captured a grown-up snow leopard at 19 locations in Kullu’s Great Himalayan National Park, a World Heritage site, and it is accompanied by cubs at two locations. This is the first documented sighting of a snow leopard at multiple spots in the national park, leading to confirmation that the endangered big cat is breeding safely not only in Lahaul-Spiti district but also in Kullu. Ajit Thakur, director, GHNP, said 40 camera traps were installed at different locations in the sanctuary last year. “The snow leopard was captured between October and December. We started analysis of the footage after March. We were successful in capturing the elusive big cat at 19 locations. At one location, the grown-up snow leopard is accompanied by two cubs and at one location it is accompanied by one cub,” he said. Wildlife researchers and photographers spend years to take a photograph of one snow leopard and the conservation experts are highly enthused about the photographs of three snow leopards together. There have been multiple claims of sightings of snow leopards in the national park, but their presence has been recorded on cameras for the first time along with proof of their breeding in the area. Thakur added that the Himachal wildlife department is extremely happy after getting clear evidence of the presence of the snow leopards in the sanctuary. “Presence of cubs with an adult suggests that snow leopards are possibly breeding in the area. This is just a preliminary survey by the wildlife department and Nature Conservation Foundation (NCF). The analysis of the footage of the camera traps is still continuing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/rare-sighting-of-elusive-snow-leopards-in-kullu-sanctuary/articleshow/77116663.cms||Suresh Sharma
