July 24, 2020||Business||Almost married after school, now an ABB scientist||Her family’s economic condition was so bad that she was almost married off soon after class 12. But fortunately for Chandrika KR, that did not happen. Instead, she went on to do two Masters’ degrees, worked as a lecturer for seven years, and then set foot in the corporate world. Today, she is a scientist at the corporate research centre of ABB’s global industries and services business. Chandrika, 36, had to give up her dreams many times, but in every cloud she saw a silver lining. She had wanted to do engineering, but her Kerala-based family couldn’t afford the fees. Her father’s business had gone down and his health was failing. In class 11, Chandrika and her brother took tuitions to help shore up the family’s finances. “I enrolled for BSc in software systems at Amrita Institute of Computer Technology, Kochi, and had to take an education loan,” recollects Chandrika. She then did an MSc in computer science, after which she got a corporate job offer, but turned it down because that would have meant moving to Hyderabad, something her family wasn’t keen on. Her tuition classes had made her a pro at teaching, so Chandrika joined Amrita School of Arts and Sciences in Kochi to teach programming languages. Two years later, marriage brought her to Bengaluru. Here she joined Amrita School of Engineering as a lecturer. After five years of teaching, she again turned a student, this time enrolling for an MTech in computer science and engineering in the same institute. A PhD followed. While doing her PhD, she got an opportunity to work in ABB as a research intern. And then came the job offer from ABB. “It is always difficult to come out of your comfort zone. I had spent most of my professional years at Amrita. But I thought this could be life-changing, and accepted the offer,” says Chandrika. She has been with the Swiss-Swedish automation company for over two years now. She is the only woman in her team. Her work involves designing and prototyping internal tools using state-of-art technologies to increase the productivity of plants and reduce the effort of engineers. She also works on predictive maintenance using machine learning algorithms. Chandrika says continuous learning is common to both the professions she has tried her hand at. “Research is part of academics as well as my current role. Also, being a lecturer requires one to have good communication skills, something I carried forward to my corporate avatar,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/almost-married-after-school-now-an-abb-scientist/articleshow/77135936.cms||Arpita Misra
July 24, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Covid-19: Odisha govt issues advisory to manage workplaces after detection of positive cases||BHUBANESWAR: The state general administration (GA) department on Thursday issued advisory to manage the workplace once a positive case is reported in government offices. The advisory has been issued after some government employees, working in the state secretariat, have even identified to be Covid infected, said an order issued by GA secretary Sanjeev Chopra. As part of the advisory, immediate isolation a person infected with Covid-19 or having symptoms will be done either to home isolation or Covid treatment facility. The work will be done in coordination with Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC). After isolation of the infected person, contact tracing will be done by the Rapid Response Team of the BMC followed by quarantine of contacts as per the category like high risk/low risk. Workplace disinfection will be done as per the guidelines of disinfection of common public places including offices. “If there is one or two cases reported, places/areas visited by the patient in the past 48 hours will be closed/sealed for entry. There is no need to close the entire office building/halt work in other areas of the office. The work can be resumed after following the laid down disinfection protocol,” said the advisory. In case of a large outbreak, the entire building has to be closed for 48 hours after thorough disinfection. All the staff will work from home till the building is adequately disinfected and is declared fit for reoccupation, said the advisory. Disinfection will be undertaken with particular attention to high contact and highly visited areas. The entire furniture and equipment used by the persons will be thoroughly disinfected. Employees have been asked to rigorously follow use of face masks, frequent hand washing and social distancing. The order said that the head of office or Covid compliance officer will be responsible for implementation of the protocol after Covid positive case is identified in that office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/covid-19-odisha-govt-issues-advisory-to-manage-workplaces-after-detection-of-positive-cases/articleshow/77135931.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
July 24, 2020||Bareilly||Also draw a list of ‘notorious cops’, UP MLA tells police amid crackdown on wanted criminals||BAREILLY: As police in UP drew a list of top history-sheeters and started a crackdown, an MLA from the ruling BJP on Thursday asked them to also chalk out and publish another list containing names of “notorious policemen with criminal past”. Bareilly MLA Rajesh Mishra alias Pappu Bhartaul made the appeal in a letter written to DIG Rajesh Pandey. Mishra himself is a “history-sheeter”, a senior police officer told TOI, adding that he has been booked in several criminal cases in the past. Mishra’s letter came soon after local police partially demolished the house of gangster Taimur alias Bhole and started the proceedings to confiscate his property worth crores of rupees in several parts of Bareilly. Taimur is wanted in several states in cases of drug smuggling and any information leading to his arrest entails a cash reward of Rs 1 lakh. When contacted, DIG Pandey said he was not going to prepare any such list as the departmental action is immediately taken once any complaint against a policeman is found to be true. “Also, a history-sheet is opened for a criminal who is a repeat offender and a threat to society. Whoever falls under this category is history-sheeted by police,” the DIG said. According to sources in police, MLA Mishra has been booked in 25 criminal cases ranging from murder, extortion, rioting and cheating in Bareilly and Shahjahanpur districts. Mishra’s previous brush with controversy was in July last year, when his daughter released videos and expressed threat from him and her brother because she had married a Dalit. She was provided police security by the then SSP Muniraj G and she still lives under the security cover. In his letter to DIG, Mishra said that he was happy to know through media reports that police are taking action against top history sheeters and he, “on behalf of the public, would be happy to see police identifying top notorious history-sheeters among them”. “Such a list should be published as it will help in maintaining law and order and make the public feel safe,” he added. Meanwhile, a senior police officer, who didn’t wish to be named, told TOI, “Two brothers, Munendra and Krishmendra, are quite close to the MLA and they are also in the list of top 10 criminals of the district. They have committed murders and had been charged under the Gangster Act earlier.” On his part, Mishra said, “If someone comes to meet me with the public then I don’t see his ID card to find out if he is a criminal. Munendra and Rajendra may have come to meet me like others and I don’t have any contact with them. I accept that several cases were registered against me, but all of them were fake and politically-motivated, and were filed by rivals. I have been given relief by court in all the cases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/also-draw-a-list-of-notorious-cops-up-mla-tells-police-amid-crackdown-on-wanted-criminals/articleshow/77134685.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 24, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh reports 109 new Covid-19 cases||SHIMLA: The state reported 109 positive cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, including 43 from Solan, 42 from Sirmaur, 11 from Kangra district, seven from Mandi, two each from Chamba and Hamirpur districts and one each from Bilaspur and Shimla districts. In the statfde 31 positive patients have also recovered. The total number of positive cases in the state has now increased to 1,834 of which 671 cases are active while 1136 positive patients have recovered. A total of 124683 persons have been tested for Covid-19 in the state till Thursday, of which 1,21,543 have been tested negative while results of 1306 samples were awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-pradesh-reports-109-new-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77136094.cms||Anand Bodh
July 24, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow teachers’ masti ki paathshalas||With schools closing down indefinitely because of the Coronavirus in the country, the entire education system has shifted online. However, the online territory is still new for both the students and teachers, who are still getting acquainted with the medium. In fact, this online model of teaching has led to some funny and some awkward moments arising for the teachers and the taught. LET THE FIGHT BEGIN!Sample the case of Nishtha Madan*, a pre-primary teacher at a private school in Mahanagar, who narrates. “Kids in my class still do not know how to mute and unmute, so it is still a task for me to manage them, especially the ones who do not have their parents sitting with them. I teach them on an application where I can not unmute them. Recently, parents of one of my students, thinking their child’s mic is on mute, started fighting among themselves. I kept on shouting to them to mute their microphone but they were in another room. Finally, I ended the class and gave the kids a break. But it was really irritating and funny” (BCCL)WHO LET THE DOGS OUT?Sonia Mathai, a teacher of class VIII of a well-known school in the city, shares how she got a shock during a recent class. “My students are mostly teenagers so I rarely get such shockers as they know how to mute and unmute their mics. But during one of the classes, one of my student’s dog came and pounced on him barking really loudly.” She adds, “We all could see inside his mouth as it was facing the camera. I literally became still for a moment. But then the kid apologized and we resumed the class.” A LOT CAN HAPPEN OVER THE CHATHowever, not all students are as well mannered. Neha Arora*, teaching the senior section of a private school in Rajajipuram, had to resort to some strict disciplinary action to keep the online class going smoothly. “I think senior class kids are the most difficult ones to handle during these online classes. There were a handful of kids in my online teaceing session who used to chat in the chat window of the application. While I am teaching something important, the chatter boxes used to have their own conversations. Finally, the principal of our school made a rule to deduct marks of the students who become a hindrance for the class. Tab jaa ke kahin class mein dsicipline aaya,” she says. TIME FOR A SHOWER?Making the situation quite embarrassing for the parents and students in a class, Shreya, a primary teacher in a school in Aliganj tells us, “During one of my online classes, a kid’s father came out of the shower in his underwear as he had forgotten to take his towel. We all could see him running in the background shouting ‘sorry sorry’. I got so embarrassed but could just smile and continued with my class. But later on I had a good laugh.” KNOCK KNOCK, IT’S THE PRINCIPALWell, taking the masti to another level was one of the school student in Indira Nagar who did something hatt ke. “One day, during the earlier days of the online sessions, the students didn’t have their official ids created. So, one of my students logged into the class in the name of the Principal. Though he didn’t misbehave as such, he gave me certain instructions, in a very professional tone on the personal chat on the app. Later, when I discussed with my class coordinator, she confirmed it with the principal, who then revealed that she had never joined the virtual class. I was so angry with my students that day. But later, we created official ids and made it mandatory for the students to log in through them only,” shared Ritu Kapoor*, a class VII teacher at a school in Alambagh. * Some names changed on request||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-teachers-masti-ki-paathshalas/articleshow/77133776.cms||Akash Wadhwa
July 24, 2020||Delhi||Not a preference, outdoor dining is a necessity in COVID times: Delhi restros||As restaurants started to reopen after the easing of lockdown restrictions around the world, outdoor dining became the preferred way of dining in. Cities like New York and Paris have large outdoor seating areas in the streets, and in some cities, on the weekends, entire streets are closed in order to accommodate outdoor dining. Closer home, no such arrangements have been made so far. However, as per reports, South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) is considering approving outdoor dining as restaurants say that it could help in giving a much-needed boost to their businesses. 'Outdoor dining will help our business and take care of guests' safety'Priyank Sukhija, a restaurateur, who has been in talks with the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) on behalf of the National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI), says, "This might pave the way for further dialogue with NDMC. We are not just thinking about our businesses, but also about the safety of our guests." "Around the world, restaurants were allowed to use more outdoor space so they could plan to reopen businesses during the pandemic. We are doing our best to ensure our customers' safety, but we are also urging authorities to cooperate with us so that we can plan for even safer spaces. If outdoor dining is allowed, it will give us and our employees hope for the future, which is very much needed right now," says Navneet Kalra, owner of Town Hall, Khan Chacha, Public Affair and Mr Choy in Khan Market. Owners tells us that there are not many who are ready to take the risk of dining-in yet, but they do get many queries about open-air dining. Guests dine outdoors in Manhattan's Mulberry StreetPeople dine out at a cafe in Paris, in June, as France eased lockdown measures"Even in the pre-COVID era, 80% of our diners in CP would prefer sitting outdoors. And right now, outdoor dining is not a choice or preference, it is a necessity for some ," says restaurateur Dinesh Arora, owner of Unplugged Courtyard in CP, who is flooded with queries on when the outlet is reopening and whether outdoor dining will be allowed. Restaurateur Umang Tewari adds, "We understand that there are safety concerns with old buildings in areas like CP and Khan Market. Authorities can only give an okay for outdoor dining in spaces that have safe structures. Rules should be followed. No additional construction should be done on terraces, but those who have huge spaces and are already paying rent for those spaces should be allowed to serve their diners outdoors." Customers, too, lean towards open-air diningIn a survey by an online publication, 36% of respondents said they would eat at a restaurant outdoors, while only 15% said they would eat at a restaurant indoors with reduced seating. Neeti Palta, a stand-up comedian says, "I recently visited a restaurant in a mall. They had some chairs just outside the restaurant as well. I don't know why but it just felt safe to sit outside than inside." Open-air dining is a favourite with many diners. Here in 'Badhaai Ho', Ayushmann Khurrana and Sanya Malhotra are seen catching up at such an outdoor joint||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/not-a-preference-outdoor-dining-is-a-necessity-in-covid-times-delhi-restros/articleshow/77128246.cms||Niharika Lal
July 24, 2020||Shimla||NGT seeks report on pharma units polluting rivers in Himachal Pradesh||SHIMLA: The National Green Tribunal has formed a committee and directed it to submit a report on a plea seeking action against the discharge of waste by two pharmaceutical industries into Sirsa and Satluj rivers at Solan in Himachal Pradesh. The bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel constituted a committee comprising officials from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), HP Pollution Control Board (HPPCB) and Solan district magistrate. The tribunal said that increasing occurrence of multi-resistant pathogens is a serious global threat to human health and it is finding its way into the water bodies and drinking water through industrial discharge and also due to heavy use of antibiotics in human and veterinary medicine. The tribunal has sought a factual and action taken report within three months. "Let the committee look into the above issues in the light of contents of the application and take such further action as may found necessary. The state pollution control board will be the nodal agency for compliance and coordination. A factual and action taken report may be furnished to the tribunal within three months by e-mail," the bench said. The NGT directed the petitioner to serve set of papers on CPCB, HPPCB and the district magistrate and file affidavit of service within 10 days. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by NGO, Veterans Forum for Transparency in Public Life, which claimed that the common effluent treatment plant (CETP) is not connected to Helios Pharmaceuticals and Acme Lifescience at Barotiwala and Nalagarh. The units were discharging their effluents directly into the Sirsa and Satluj rivers, it said. Even after treatment in effluent treatment plant (ETP) and sewerage treatment plants (STP), pharmaceutical ingredients may still be coming out from the industries unless ETP/STPs are specialised for the purpose, it pointed it. The plea said present CETP was not designed to neutralise active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) and the treatment, storage, and disposal facility (TSDF) did not receive sludge generated from industrial units at Nalagarh. The industries located at Baddi area are generating 20,779 kilolitre daily (KLD) of industrial effluent, out of which 17,894 KLD is being treated at CETP and remaining 2,885 KLD is being disposed of directly into the Sirsa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/ngt-seeks-report-on-pharma-units-polluting-rivers-in-hp/articleshow/77136912.cms||Anand Bodh
July 24, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Birha da Sultan’ Shiv remembered on 84th birth anniversary||BATALA: Fans and admirers of Punjabi poet Shiv Kumar Batalvi, who had woven emotions of "birha" (grief of separation from beloved) of unrequited love in his romantic and wistful poetry to be remembered as an immortal "Birha da Sultan", gathered at his ancestral home here on Thursday to celebrate his 84th birth anniversary. Born to Krishan Gopal and Shanta Devi in 1936 in Pakistan, Shiv's family migrated to Batala in Gurdaspur after the Partition and studied at the local Baring Union Christian College. On the occasion, Sukhwant Singh Gill, president of Citizen Welfare Forum, said every Punjabi, especially Batala residents, are proud of Batalvi, who gave a new dimension to the Punjabi poetry and his metaphoric poetry communicated complex relations in the simplest form. One of Shiv's ardent fans Maninder Singh, a resident of Tapa Mandi in Barnala district, had specially driven more than 200km on his motorcycle to attend Shiv's birthday at his home in Batala. "I have read all of his work and I am so much inspired that I wanted to visit the place where Shiv lived and that day has come," he said, adding that there are no parallels to Shiv's poetry. He said he first went to Shiv Kumar Batalvi Cultural Centre to pay homage to the great poet and then went to his ancestral home before attending a function held to mark his birth anniversary. Shiv's epic work "Loona" won him the Sahitya Akademi Award in 1967. A woman of Qadian inspired Shiv to write Loona. He was also in relation with a girl called Maina, and an Austrian woman Jennifer, who had come to Batala to meet Shiv, recalled some of the older residents. Rajiv Batalvi, nephew of Shiv, shared the memories of his uncle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/birha-da-sultan-shiv-remembered-on-84th-birth-anniv/articleshow/77136913.cms||Yudhvir Rana
July 24, 2020||Gurgaon||Cotton damaged as heavy rains pound Jind villages||JIND: Heavy rains have damaged cotton crop in several villages in Narwana and Uchana areas of Jind district. According to the data, 64mm rainfall was reported on July 20, 20mm on July 21 and 34mm on July 22. Several residents of Gasho Kalan village said rainwater had accumulated in the area due to continuous rainfall and around 200 acres had been affected and crops in nearly 50 acres had been almost inundated. Cotton plants have started wilting due to water in the fields. Worried farmers said more rainfall could damage paddy and cotton crops severely. Vijay Kumar, a panchayat member in Dumarkhan Kalan village, said, "Water has accumulated in several fields, which has begun to damage even paddy along with cotton. If rainfall continues, it will cause a huge loss to us." Amarjit Sharma of Gasho Kalan village, said, "This year we received more rainfall as compared with 2019. There is up to four feet water in my fields, that has destroyed cotton in five acres. Many others have also suffered losses in the village. Nearby villages like Bhagwanpura and Majra also hit by waterlogging." Talking to TOI, Jind deputy commissioner Aditya Dahiya said, "I have received some reports from Narwana and Julana areas about crop loss due to inundation of fields. I have asked the irrigation officials to look into the issue and drain out excess water. We have arranged extra pumps so that waterlogging can be tackled effectively."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/cotton-damaged-as-heavy-rains-pound-jind-villages/articleshow/77136914.cms||VIJENDER KUMAR
July 24, 2020||India||It’s ‘kaapi’ time again for India’s oldest virus-hit couple in Kerala||Covid fatality has hit the ageing population, burdened with a slew of co-morbidities, the most. But not this couple from Kerala and a handful of nonagenarians from Kolkata. They all battled the virus, and wonThey are India’s oldest married couple to get infected by the Coronavirus. But, when Thomas Abraham, 93, and his wife Mariamma, 89, from Kerala’s Pathanamthitta district survived the onslaught, they came out of it with a message — it’s never too late to learn to savour life better. The couple was in hospital for 25 days, most of it in ICU, after contracting the disease in March from their son who had returned from Italy. Thomas and Mariamma had several old-age related health issues from diabetes and hypertension to cardiac problems. In the initial days, Thomas’s health deteriorated and he was put on a ventilator. He also suffered a cardiac arrest. As the couple’s condition seemed to worsen by the day, the state waited with bated breath. The couple had been admitted in separate rooms and that was one aspect that intrigued the doctors. “We had never stayed separately since our marriage. Living even a second without seeing each other was unimaginable,” said Thomas, who had married Mariamma 73 years ago, when she was 16 and he 20. Sensing that there could be a psychological toll, the doctors soon shifted them to the transplant ICU where both could see each other. This seemed to work miracles. Read more from this seriesWhile in hospital, they had never expected to see their children and grandchildren again or to celebrate Christmas. “I used to cry at night, calling out their names and asking where they were,” she Mariamma. The nurses on duty had a tough time consoling her and get her to rest. Now, life is back to normal for the couple trying to make the best of every day – morning prayers, followed by ‘kattan kaapi’ (black coffee) together and even catching up on local gossip from other senior citizens in the neighbourhood. No nervous 90s for these bravehearts of BengalSripoti Naiban (in the pic) was born in 1921, three years after the Spanish flu struck. He lost both his parents when he was seven to a cholera epidemic. Now at 99, he is Bengal’s oldest Covid survivor. Salkia resident Govinda Haldar (95) and Lal Mohan Sett (94) of Bidhan Sarani in Kolkata, both Covid positive, have also recovered. All three have one aspect in common, they have all led a disciplined life. These three required only oxygen support to recover, in just a few days. This story is part of a series in association with Facebook. Facebook has no editorial role in this story.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/its-kaapi-time-again-for-indias-oldest-virus-hit-couple-in-kerala/articleshow/77133180.cms||Preetu Nair
July 24, 2020||India||With legal battle stretching, Rajasthan CM likely to go for a floor test||JAIPUR: All bumpy roads in Rajasthan politics seemed to lead to a floor test late Thursday as CM Ashok Gehlot met governor Kalraj Mishra for the second time in six days, hours after hinting that a special assembly session would be convened soon for his government to prove it is stable and able. “We have a full majority and are united, so (we are) staying here,” Gehlot said. He suggested that some among the dissident MLAs in sacked deputy CM Sachin Pilot’s camp, too, might vote for him. “They are being forcefully kept in a (Haryana) hotel guarded by bouncers. They are making phone calls to say they want to return, but can’t. I hope many of them, when they come, will vote for us.” Gehlot claimed that the dissident MLAs had been “misled into making the mistake of going to court”. With the Pilot camp filing an application on Wednesday for the Union to be made party to the case, it is unlikely that the HC will give its verdict as scheduled on Friday.“ ...the matter has now been listed in the category of ‘reply not filed’. The court may grant time to the Union to submit a reply,” the Speaker’s counsel, Prateek Kasliwal, said. On whether the political crisis had now triggered a constitutional conflict, Gehlot said, “It should be avoid ed. We respect the judiciary and never interfere in its functioning. (But) you know, complaints keep coming from the executive and the legislature that many bills get stalled by the judiciary.” Sources said the Gehlot government was considering bringing a bill and issuing a whip to its MLAs. This, they said, was being seen as a possible alternative to a direct trust vote. Awhip would make it mandatory for the dissident legislators to attend the assembly or face disqualification. The government would prefer disqualification of rebels before going for a trust vote so that the majority mark in the 200-member house gets reduced. Watch Rajasthan: CM Ashok Gehlot likely to go for floor test||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/with-legal-battle-stretching-rajasthan-cm-likely-to-go-for-a-floor-test/articleshow/77137285.cms||---
July 24, 2020||India||LAC standoff: Diplomacy cut no ice with China, feels govt||NEW DELHI: On the eve of yet another meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on border affairs (WMCC), the government on Thursday said India was “fully committed to observing and respecting” the Line of Actual Control and that it would “not accept any unilateral attempts to change the status quo” along the LAC. “It is our expectation that the Chinese side will sincerely work with us for complete disengagement and de-escalation and full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas at the earliest, as agreed to by the special representatives,” the MEA said. LAC stand-off: Complete coverageThe government warning came as ground reports showed that disengagement had stalled in the Pangong Tso and Gogra-Hot Springs areas. “Respecting and strictly abiding by the LAC is the basis of peace and tranquillity in the border areas,” the MEA added. It effectively said that China’s actions had torn up all the agreements since 1993. “The conduct of Chinese forces this year, including the deployment of a large body of troops and changes in behaviour, accompanied by unjustified and untenable claims, has been in complete disregard of all mutual agreements,” it said. Read AlsoAfter FDI, Chinese companies now face curbs in getting govt contractsIn a significant escalation of tension with China, the government late Friday changed rules to enable curbs on bidders from countries that share a land border with India “on the grounds of defence and national security”.There is growing concern within the government that no amount of diplomatic warnings appear to cut ice with China, which has doubled down and dug in across the LAC in eastern Ladakh. Reminding the Chinese side of the red line that a peaceful border was the pre-requisite for the bilateral relationship, MEA spokesman Anurag Srivastava said, “The two sides have agreed during the conversation of the special representatives to work towards complete disengagement of troops along the LAC and deescalation from India-China border areas for full restoration of peace and tranquillity." Read AlsoIndia to boost Rafale capabilities with HAMMER missiles under emergency order: SourcesWith the Rafales arriving in the country in the middle of a dispute with China, the Indian Air Force is further boosting the capabilities of the combat aircraft by equipping it with the HAMMER missiles (60-70kms range) from France. The order for these missiles is being processed under the emergencyWatch 'Peaceful border was the pre-requisite for the bilateral relationship', India reminds China||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lac-standoff-diplomacy-cut-no-ice-with-china-feels-govt/articleshow/77137311.cms||---
July 24, 2020||India||Pakistan has blocked all avenues for Jadhav: India||NEW DELHI: A day after Pakistan unilaterally approached Islamabad High Court for appointment of a lawyer for Kulbhushan Jadhav, the government accused Pakistan of blocking all avenues for an "effective remedy" for India in the case. While India did hire a Pakistani lawyer to go for a review "as a last resort" on July 18, it still couldn't file a petition in the absence of any power of attorney and because of Pakistan's refusal apparently to share supporting papers related to the case. The government said Pakistan's decision to approach court on its own for a lawyer, its failure to provide unimpeded and unconditional consular access and also relevant case files after repeated requests had again exposed the "farcical nature" of Pakistan's approach. According to India, Pakistan is not only in violation of the judgment of ICJ, but also of the ordinance which Islamabad had promulgated on May 20 apparently to ensure effective review and reconsideration of Jadhav's sentencing by a military court. "Pakistan has completely failed to provide the remedy as directed by the ICJ and India reserves its position in the matter, including its rights to avail of further remedies," said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava. The ICJ had held Pakistan guilty of violating the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations by not providing consular access for Jadhav, while also calling for an effective review and reconsideration of the military court verdict. India has been exploring the option of returning to the international court as it believes only a "remedial" consular access, meaning unconditional and in private, can fulfill the mandate of the ICJ judgment by allowing Indian officials to engage Jadhav on his legal rights. Despite Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi saying in a TV interview that Islamabad was ready to provide access without the presence of any Pakistan official, India remains unsure if Pakistan will actually allow that. "The meeting of consular officers with Jadhav on 16 July was scuttled by Pakistan authorities. They were instructed not to hand over any document to him. Hence, the Indian consular officers could not obtain a power of attorney from him," said Srivastava. Similarly, he added, India has repeatedly requested Pakistan for relevant documents related to the case. Since Pakistan had "advised" India that the relevant documents could only be handed to an authorised Pakistani lawyer, India appointed a Pakistani lawyer to obtain the relevant documents. "To our surprise, as advised by the Pakistani authorities, when the authorised Pakistani lawyer approached the concerned authorities, they declined to handover the documents to the lawyer," he said. The government also accused Pakistan of creating confusion over the last date of filing the review petition under the ordinance. According to India, initially, Pakistan indicated that a petition had to be filed by July 19. Subsequently, it said, Pakistan indicated that the time limit to file a review petition would expire on 20 July. "Knowing the inadequacies and shortcomings in the ordinance, India had already shared its concerns in June 2020, including a considerable delay in informing India about its promulgation, with the Pakistan authorities. Pakistan took two weeks to inform us about this ordinance and shared the copy of the ordinance only after India requested the same," said the official. India had conveyed to Pakistan earlier that the ordinance didn't give due weightage to the ICJ judgment. It said Pakistan seemed non-serious in its approach and was not interested in implementing the judgment of the ICJ in letter and spirit. Watch Pakistan blocked avenues for effective remedies: MEA on Kulbhushan Jadhav||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pakistan-has-blocked-all-avenues-for-jadhav-india/articleshow/77137445.cms||Sachin Parashar
July 24, 2020||India||Advantage Rajasthan rebels as SC lets HC rule on disqualification plea||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Thursday refused to oblige the Rajasthan speaker, who had rushed with a petition to prevent the high court from deciding on the validity of his notice to rebel Congress MLAs, including Sachin Pilot, on disqualification petitions: a development which will put the Congress government headed by Ashok Gehlot in a tight spot and intensify political activity in the state. The court has scheduled further hearing in the matter on Monday which means the 19 rebel Congress MLAs led by Pilot could breathe easy till then even if the HC's order on Friday upholds the speaker's notices. The speaker promised not to go ahead with the disqualification proceedings. Appearing for the Speaker, senior advocate Kapil Sibal repeatedly pleaded that the SC, in its 1992 Kihoto Hollohan judgment, had categorically barred judicial interference in proceedings pending before the speaker. However, Harish Salve, counsel for the rebel MLAs, said the speaker had participated in proceedings before the HC for five days without demurring. "It is not open for the speaker to take a chance before the HC, agree to defer proceedings, and then remember the Hollohan judgment to request the SC to stop the HC from giving its verdict,” Salve said. Taking a middle path, a bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari said the HC would not be barred from pronouncing its order on Friday, but the order would not be implemented till further directions from the SC. However, it expressed concern over the danger posed by the controversy as it had raised “questions about democracy and its survival”. The SC said the legal questions posed by the speaker on jurisdiction of courts as well as issues arising from the controversy whether disqualification could be used as a weapon to silence dissent in a democracy would require a detailed hearing. “Even in such circumstances, are courts permitted to exercise their jurisdiction? What will happen to whom (rebel MLAs) is not the question. Question is what happens to democracy,” it said. The order means a breather for Pilot and his fellow Congress rebels and not just because the speaker, as promised, will not go ahead with the proceedings. If the HC order quashes the speaker’s notices to them, the Pilot camp will brandish it as a moral victory even though it will not give them any relief from the proceedings before the speaker till the SC takes a final decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/advantage-rajasthan-rebels-as-sc-lets-hc-rule-on-disqualification-plea/articleshow/77137491.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
July 24, 2020||World||Pompeo: China's Houston consulate was 'hub' of spying||WASHINGTON: US secretary of state Mike Pompeo said Thursday that the Chinese consulate in Houston which Washington has ordered shut was a center for espionage and operations to illegally obtain US companies' trade secrets. "This week we closed down China's consulate in Houston because it was a hub of spying and intellectual property theft," Pompeo said in a California speech on China's threat to the world. "China ripped off our prized intellectual property and trade secrets costing millions of jobs across America" he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/pompeo-chinas-houston-consulate-was-hub-of-spying/articleshow/77137521.cms||---
July 24, 2020||India||Covid toll tops 30,000; record spike of 750 on Thursday||NEW DELHI: Deaths from the Covid-19 pandemic in the country crossed 30,000 and India’s toll rose to the sixth highest in the world on Thursday, even as fresh cases surged to another new high, crossing 48,000 for the first time. At 750, fatalities across the country on Thursday were also the highest recorded in a single day so far. India’s Covid-19 death toll has risen by more than 5,000 in the last seven days, having crossed the 25,000 mark exactly a week ago. By contrast, it had taken 10 days for the count to hit 25,000 from the 20,000 mark, and 11 days for the death toll to rise from 15,000 to 20,000. India also went past France’s Covid-19 death toll of 30,172 to climb to the sixth spot among countries that have suffered the highest fatalities from the pandemic. With 48,285 cases on Thursday, the country has recorded nearly 95,000 fresh coronavirus infections in just two days, as per data collated from state governments. On the brighter side, India also reported the highest single-day recoveries from the virus at 33,659. While Maharashtra again registered the biggest rise in cases on Thursday, recording its second-highest single-day count of 9,895, as many as 11 states reported their highest spike in cases. These were led by Andhra Pradesh, which reported a massive rise of nearly 8,000 infections (7,998). The state has added more than 14,000 to its caseload in the past two days. The others states which added their highest singleday count of cases were Tamil Nadu (6,472 fresh infections), Karnataka (5,030), Uttar Pradesh (2,529), Bengal (2,436), Odisha (1,264), Kerala (1,078), Gujarat (1,078), Jharkhand (518), Punjab (441) and Chhattisgarh (286). A day after adding a record high of 10,576 cases, Maharashtra on Thursday saw its highest deaths recorded in a day. It reported 298 Covid-19 deaths, taking its toll to 12,854. The highest deaths reported for a day until Thursday was 295, on July 4. The state accounts for over 40% of Covid deaths in India and has been struggling to bring down the mortality rate below 3.6% for a while. Of the 298 deaths, Mumbai reported 55 or 18%. The total fatalities in the city rose to 5,930, close to the 6,000 mark. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region, excluding Mumbai, registered 75 deaths. The novel coronavirus appeared to be galloping in Andhra Pradesh with the highest single-day surge of 7,998 Covid-19 cases — the highest for any state except Maharashtra — and 61 deaths. Overall, the southern state is place on the fifth position in the country with a caseload of 72,711, behind Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, and Karnataka. The Covid-19 graph has been on the upward trend since July 1 with an unprecedented spurt in positive cases and toll. On July 6, the state had just 20,019 cases and was in the 10th spot. Karnataka also witnessed the highest single-day spike of 5,030 positive cases and, on a positive note, saw 2,071 discharges the same day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-toll-tops-30000-record-spike-of-750-on-thursday/articleshow/77137532.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Surat||47-year-old male nurse at NCH loses corona battle||Surat: After battling coronavirus for over a month-and-a-half, 47-year-old male nurse Sunil Nimavat at New Civil Hospital (NCH) in Surat, succumbed to the infection on Thursday. This was the second casualty of a frontline staff member at NCH this week.On July 20, head nurse of Covid-19 hospital, Rashmita Patel, 57, had succumbed after fighting the infection for 14 long days. Nimavat had joined NCH in 2015. After the outbreak of coronavirus, he was shifted from the general ward to the Covid-19 hospital. It was in the first week of June, that Nimavat suffered from fever and severe coughing and later tested positive for Covid-19.Hospital sources said that Nimavat was suffering from pneumonia and his condition deteriorated on the early morning hours of Thursday. At about 8 am, Nimavat breathed his last at the Covid-19 hospital, where he had served for the last five years.During lockdown, Nimavat, who is survived by his wife, two children and his elderly father, had gone to his hometown in Halvad in Morbi district for the free distribution of masks and sanitiser to the poor people with the support of the city-based NGO and the Gujarat Nursing Council (GNC). Nimavat’s wife, Jagruti (37) is a housewife, while his elder daughter, Nandini recently got admission in the medical academy in the Philippines and was about to leave in a month or two. His younger son, Om secured 73% marks in the Class XII board exam. Iqbal Kadiwala, vice-president of Gujarat Nursing Council told TOI, “We have lost second corona warrior to the virus. Nimavat was a dedicated healthcare worker and had completed his first round of Covid-19 duty at the hospital in May.”Kadiwala added, “He was very active in the social service too.” According to Kadiwala, Nimavat’s father is the retired medical officer of a government hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/47-year-old-male-nurse-at-nch-loses-corona-battle/articleshow/77135415.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Business||Amazon India adds more warehouses||TNN Bengaluru: Amazon India is stepping on the gas to ride the momentum of e-commerce growth in India, accelerated by the pandemic. It is adding 10 fulfilment centres (FCs), and expanding seven of these as it starts preparing for the festive season. This takes the total FCs of Amazon in India to 60. The company said the new FCs will be operational by the festive season around Diwali and would have a total storage area of 32 million cubic feet — a 20% increase. These new FCs will be set up in Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Patna, Lucknow, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Chennai, Ludhiana and Ahmedabad. It has already announced an additional temporary 50,000 jobs in delivery and supply chain for India. Amazon’s new FCs include the specialised network for large appliances and furniture category. They are being set up at a time when Reliance’s JioMart has also started scaling up its e-commerce operations, and takes Amazon ahead of rival Flipkart. The Walmart-owned company’s last disclosed number of FCs in 2018 stood at 21, and then it added two new FCs in Haryana earlier in the year. Flipkart declined to comment on the matter. According to industry sources, Flipkart has also expanded its warehousing capacity, but the number of its FCs are less than that of Amazon India. Amazon India did not disclose the expenditure figures for the FC expansion, but delivery infrastructure has been one of its top avenues for investments in India. It has already put in $7 billion and announced an additional $1 billion of investment in January to digitise small businesses. “The increase in storage capacity is in line with our long-term commitment to invest in India. With the expanded network of more than 60 fulfilment centres, we look forward to creating thousands of job opportunities with competitive pay. Our investment in infrastructure and technology is to provide sellers with closer access to Amazon’s fulfilment offerings, customers with faster delivery on a wider selection of products and help ancillary businesses such as packaging, transportation and logistics,” said Amazon India VP (customer fulfilment operations - APAC, MENA & LATAM) Akhil Saxena.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/amazon-india-adds-more-warehouses/articleshow/77136678.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Madurai||Some southern dists still testing less than 1,000 samples a day||Madurai: Even as Covid-19 cases continue to rise rapidly in southern districts with 2,079 cases reported on Thursday alone, some of the southern districts like Ramanathapuram, Sivaganga, Tenkasi and Dindigul are still testing only around 1,000 samples or less per day. Though these districts are comparatively seeing less number of active Covid-19 cases, the testing is not as much as Madurai, Virudhunagar or Tuticorin districts that have some of the highest number of active cases in the southern region. However, district officials maintained they are testing adequately. In Ramanathapuram district, testing was tripled since the start of July. “Now we are testing around 800-900 samples per day. The positivity rate was also quite high before at around 30-35%, but now it has come down to 11-12%,” said Veera Raghava Rao, Ramanathapuram district collector. The collector added that targeted testing by identifying hotspots through fever surveillance has helped bring down positivity rate. In Dindigul, Sivaganga and Tenkasi, around 600-700 tests are being conducted daily. “We are doing targeted testing as necessary via fever camps and surveillance. Positivity rate remains steady around 10%. As per the norm, we need to test 10 times the number of positive cases we get,” said a senior health official from Sivaganga district. On the other hand, in Kanyakumari and Tirunelveli, though the districts are testing around 1,000 or more per day, the average number of Covid-19 cases reported per day during the last week has been well over 100 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/some-southern-dists-still-testing-less-than-1000-samples-a-day/articleshow/77136649.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
July 24, 2020||Varanasi||‘Banarasi sari industry witnessing worst slump due to coronavirus’||Varanasi: No sector is left untouched by the Covid-19 pandemic crisis but its impact on Banarasi textile industry has been most severe and has brought it down to its knees. “The Banarasi sari and textile sector had suffered immensely during the economic slowdown in 2000 and 2008, and had led to largescale migration of weavers to Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Surat, and other cities, but its annual trade never went below 50%. But, today it is grounded completely and handlooms, powerlooms are shut as trading is zero,” said Banarasi Vastra Udyog Association patron and BJP MLC Ashok Dhawan. The world famous Banarasi sari and brocade is witnessing the worst slump despite relaxations to open the outlets. BVUA general secretary Rajan Bahal said, “We decided to close Banarasi textile outlets till August 6 due to many reasons. There is no demand and more than 30 persons associated with the trade have tested Covid-19 positive so far. Most outlets, popularly known as gaddis, are in narrow streets, where maintaining social distancing is impossible. Besides, many of our workers, weavers are stuck in containment zones.” Noman Abdin, a prominent Banarasi sari producer, said, “During earlier crises, most handloom weavers had shifted to powerlooms and migrated to textile hubs like Surat, Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Bhiwandi and Pune. This was the main reason why Surat surged ahead in spite of its inferior quality of products. But, today units in all cities are shut and weavers are without work.” Silk Yarn Trade Association’s vice-president Vaibhav Kapoor said, “Our stock of sarees, dresses and furnishing material is lying unsold since March. There is no demand so there is no weaving. The silk yarn trade is stalled. My firm has not done one billing since April.” “Our buyers from other cities are not clearing the dues and so the payments of weavers, who supplied saris and textile, are stuck,” said Bahal. “We have apprised the state and Union governments about the ground situation. They have ensured no one sleeps empty stomach,” said Dhawan. “We have no solution in sight but to pray for early end of the pandemic,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/banarasi-sari-industry-witnessing-worst-slump-due-to-coronavirus/articleshow/77136311.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
July 24, 2020||Surat||After food, NGOs provide free oxygen to patients||Surat: During the lockdown, NGOs, community groups and individuals set an example by distributing free food to the poor and distressed migrant workers. Now, with the Covid-19 ravaging the city, many organisations have launched a unique initiative by providing free-of-cost oxygen cylinders to those in home isolation. Over half a dozen NGOs and social organisations have taken up the task of providing free oxygen cylinders to the poor and needy Covid-19 patients and those from the well-to-do families. According to Surat Municipal Corporation’s (SMC) health department, about 1,200 Covid-19 patients in the home isolation care. Ekta Social Group, an organisation run by about 60 volunteers at Gundisheri in Laldarwaja area was the first in the city to start the free oxygen cylinder service in the walled city area on July 15. Starting with just two oxygen cylinders, the group is now providing 70 oxygen cylinders to the needy in different parts of the city. Tejas Choksi of Ekta Social Group told TOI, “We are providing free oxygen cylinders only to the Covid-19 patients in home isolation. We started this service after coming across a few incidents where the patients requiring oxygen support did not get beds in the hospital and they had to face a lot of difficulties.” According to Choksi, the oxygen cylinders are provided on the doctor’s prescription along with the oxygen kit (masks and pipe) and the flow metre. Akshar Air Gasses, manufacturer and distributors of oxygen at Ichhapore GIDC provides free refilling service for big and small oxygen cylinders to the organisations engaged the charity work. About 80% of the oxygen refilling is done by the group in the city. Refilling of oxygen in small bottles costs Rs 200, while it costs Rs 300 for the big bottles. Sohail Shaikh of Development Charitable Trust in Rander told TOI, “About 150 Covid-19 patients are in home isolation in Rander town alone and the majority of them are poor. We have given 80 free oxygen cylinders to the needy patients. The service for people of all communities.” Murari Sharaf, joint secretary of Laximath Seva Samiti in Ghod Dod road said, “We have distributed 60 free oxygen cylinders to the Covid-19 patients so far. Early administration of oxygen support can preclude the need for a ventilator.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/after-food-ngos-provide-free-oxygen-to-patients/articleshow/77135524.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Surat||In death, two give 10 people fresh go at life again||Surat: Two brain-dead persons in Surat city gave 10 people a chance to live life afresh on Thursday after both donated five vital organs each, including their eyes.In the first case, 58-year-old Chhaya Desai, a resident of Desai Street in Udhna village in the city, suffered a sudden deterioration in her health after which she was brought to the INS hospital on July 17. Doctors performed a craniotomy surgery on her the next day, but Desai slipped into a coma and was later declared brain-dead July 22. “After the kin of deceased Chhayaben Desai agreed for cadaver donations, we informed the State Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation (SOTTO) convener, Dr Pranjal Modi, at the Institute of Kidney Diseases and Research Centre (IKDRC), Ahmedabad. A team of IKDRC came to Surat and harvested two kidneys, a liver from Desai and the three organs were transplanted in three patients at Ahmedabad. Surat-based Lok Drishti Bank collected her two eyes,” Nilesh Mandlewala, founder of Donate Life, an NGO engaged in cadaver donation in the city, told TOI. Talking to TOI, Chetan Desai, Chhayaben’s husband said, “My wife was a religious person and always wanted to help others. Her death was certain. And even in our grief, we knew she would have wanted others to enjoy life.” In the second case, 63-year-old Manubhai Patel, a resident of Navagam of Navsari district was seriously injured in a road accident on July 20 at his village. He was brought to the INS Hospital where he was declared brain-dead two days later, on July 22. “Both brain-dead persons were at the same hospital. Manubhai gave life to five persons by donating two eyes, two kidneys, and liver. Three organs were transplanted in three persons at Ahmedabad on Thursday. A city-based eye bank collected the two eyes,” Mandlewala added. “My father always told me to help people as much as you can and also practiced it in his own lifetime. It is an important life lesson he left for us and I knew that the best tribute that we can accord him is by donating his vital organs to help the needy live life once again,” said his son, Dhaval Patel. “While cadaver donations have dipped due to Covid, Surat has been leading the show with four donations so far in the past 25 days. The donations included eight kidneys, four livers, one heart, and six eyes,” Mandlewala added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/in-death-two-give-10-people-fresh-go-at-life-again/articleshow/77135562.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Business||Bank of Maharashtra posts Rs 101cr Q1 net profit||Pune: Bank of Maharashtra posted a net profit of Rs 101 crore for first quarter of FY21 against Rs 81 crore in the year-ago period. The gross non-performing assets (NPAs) at the public sector lender showed a significant improvement as it fell to 10.9% from 17.9% in the previous year. The bank said it has provisioned for Rs 425 crore so far, as 24% of its customers have availed of the moratorium due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The bank’s total business increased by 7.9% to about Rs 2.5 lakh crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bank-of-maharashtra-posts-rs-101cr-q1-net-profit/articleshow/77136725.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Surat||Rander reports 47 cases in a day||Surat: Municipal Commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani on Thursday held a meeting with the members of the Pandesara Industrial Cooperative Society at Pandesara GIDC and provided information to contain the spread of the Covid-19 among the unit owners and migrant workers.JP Agarwal, member of the cooperative society told TOI: “The civic chief told us to go for mandatory rapid antigen test of the migrant workers coming from other states. Also, the workers without symptoms will have to remain quarantined for seven days.”“SMC will be providing the facility of Dhanvantri Rath in the GIDC area for the health check-up of the workers and giving them medicines and other clinical requirements,” he added.Pandesara GIDC has nearly 40 textile mills and around 800 powerloom units employing roughly three lakh workers, mostly migrants.Meanwhile, Rander continued to report the highest number of single-day cases with 47 testing positive on Thursday. In the last 10 days, Rander zone has added 353 new cases. This was closely followed by Athwa zone that reported(30), Katargam, Central (29), Katargam (22), Varachha-B (16) and Udhna (14).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/rander-reports-47-cases-in-a-day/articleshow/77135447.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Patna||All 447 NMCH beds should have oxygen pipeline: Bihar minister||PATNA: State health minister Mangal Pandey, who visited Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) on Thursday, asked its administration to equip all beds with oxygen pipeline. NMCH is one of the four dedicated Covid-19 hospitals in the state. This was Pandey’s first visit to NMCH after it was declared a dedicated Covid hospital. During his nearly three-hour visit, Pandey inspected all the wards and interacted with patients as well. NMCH superintendent Dr Vinod Kumar Singh said there are 447 beds for Covid-19 patients in the hospital and 167 of them have oxygen pipeline. “The Bihar Medical Services and Infrastructure Corporation Limited will start installing oxygen pipelines on all beds from Saturday onwards,” he added. Dr Singh said the health minister has asked the hospital administration to listen to the grievances of people and provide better medical facilities to them. “We are already working in this direction. Doctors’ duty roster is being upgraded. The hospital has been divided into 11 divisions and each division will have one head who will personally visit patients and get in touch with medicine department head or shift the patient to ICU if needed. This will improve synchronisation.” The NMCH superintendent said only Covid-19 positive patients would be admitted to the hospital. Asked about nursing staff who boycotted work on Wednesday alleging misbehaviour by attendants, Dr Singh said, “One of the attendants had chased a nurse with slipper. After the incident, we held a dialogue with nursing staff and they resumed duty at midnight. We have assured them of proper security.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/all-447-nmch-beds-should-have-oxygen-pipeline-minister/articleshow/77134314.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 24, 2020||Patna||IAS officer of Bhagalpur division shifted to Patna hospital||BHAGALPUR: A senior IAS officer of the Bhagalpur division, who had tested positive for Covid-19 recently, was taken to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Patna (AIIMS-P) by an ambulance on Wednesday evening. He had been placed under home quarantine at his official residence since July 17. A source claimed that the officer was taken to Patna for better treatment and his condition was stated to be stable. Earlier, the Bhagalpur district magistrate (DM), officiating DM, senior ADM, district development commissioner as well as several police personnel, bank staff, post office employees, doctors and paramedical staff had tested positive for Covid. According to the figures of the state health department, the number of corona cases in Bhagalpur has gone up to 1,859 with 623 active ones and 19 deaths. Altogether 401 positive cases, including 88 active ones and one death, have been reported from Banka so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ias-officer-of-bhagalpur-division-shifted-to-patna-hospital/articleshow/77134250.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Patna||Anand Kumar shares experience in book on Covid||PATNA: Super 30 founder and mathematician Anand Kumar has shared his views on the Covid-19 pandemic and its impact on students in ‘Together: An Anthology from the Covid-19 Pandemic’, a book compiled by Pauldy Otermans and Dev Aditya. The two are alumni of Brunel University London. The book has a rich collection of human experiences, mostly in the form of poems, prose and letters, shared by authors, leaders, celebrities, teachers, actors, students, frontline workers as well as those who have survived the pandemic. Anand said, “The book is a collection of experiences to usher in positivity because being negative is not the answer to any problem. I have shared my experience as a teacher and how Covid caused a huge disruption in the field of education.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/anand-kumar-shares-experience-in-book-on-covid/articleshow/77134278.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM believes in all-round growth: RCP at JD(U) meet||PATNA: JD(U) national general secretary (organisation) R C P Singh on Thursday said chief minister Nitish Kumar was more concerned about voters than votes. Addressing workers of the party through social media platforms on the sixth day of the party’s virtual campaign in the run up to the assembly polls, Singh said Nitish has always provided opportunities to people who were left behind and remained aloof from mainstream of the society. “He believes in ‘samagra vikas’ (all-round development) and has adopted the policy of ‘samavesi vikas’. It’s because of this policy that Bihar, which once was the seat of knowledge and power, has been gaining the lost glory, albeit slowly,” he said. Highlighting the initiatives of the state government in the field of technical education, the JD(U) Rajya Sabha member said at present the state boasted of having an engineering college in each district in which altogether 9,215 students are enrolled. “In addition, there are 13 private engineering institutions imparting education to eligible students. Similarly, 12,000 students were enrolled in the 44 government polytechnic colleges. Besides 24 colleges were operating under the private sector in the state,” he said. Taking a dig at RJD, Singh said people never thought of such well-managed technical educational institutions in the state before 2005. Referring to “mismanaged” health services during RJD rule, the JD(U) leader said, “People used to visit government hospitals only to get autopsy reports.” “It’s needless to say that a drastic change has been brought about in the health sector in the last 15 years,” he added. Singh also asked the party functionaries to complete the process of selection of presidents and secretaries at polling booths on time in view of the EC’s guidelines to restrict the number of voters to 1,000 at a particular polling booth in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. State information and republic relations department minister Niraj Kumar Singh said the response time is more relevant for people now. Slamming leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, Niraj said, “What one can expect from a man who can’t differentiate between an approach road and a bridge.” State transport minister Santosh Nirala said the contributions of Nitish in the economic, social and academic uplift of the downtrodden couldn’t be ignored and the members of the supressed community would always be thankful to him for giving them honour and respect. Without naming anyone, Munger MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh Lallan said the man, whose name once spelt terror in Siwan region, is lodged in Tihar jail. “What Nitish had promised to the people earlier was successfully translated into action. The JD(U) will fight the upcoming election on the basis of development works undertaken during Nitish’s leadership,” he added. Earlier, addressing another virtual rally, Rajya Sabha member Harivansh Narayan Singh said proper implementation of Public Grievance Redressal Act has proved a milestone as far as curbing corruption and quick delivery of justice to people is concerned. State energy minister and former JD(U) state president Vijendra Prasad Yadav, state party president and Rajya Sabha member Vashishtha Narayan Singh, MP Chandreshwar Prasad Chandrawanshi and MLA Abhay Kushwaha also addressed workers of the party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-believes-in-all-round-growth-rcp-at-jdu-meet/articleshow/77135124.cms||Ramashankar
July 24, 2020||Patna||39 new Covid-19 cases in Bihar's Saran||CHHAPRA: With the detection of 39 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, the tally in Saran district has gone up to 814. Many people, who have tested positive for the virus, are government officers, doctors and bank employees. Normal operations at the Shitalpur branch of the State Bank of India remained paralysed throughout the day after an employee tested positive for Covid-19 and two other staff were also suspected to be infected with the virus. Branch manager Sanjeev Kumar told this newspaper on Wednesday, “Samples of the other employees have been sent for being tested. We will start functioning again from July 27 after the entire premises of the bank are sanitized.” District vector-borne disease control officer Dr Dilip Kumar Singh urged people to maintain social distancing in order to avoid the infection. “People should avoid crowded places and get their swab samples tested without any delay,” he said. Of the 157 active containment zones in the district, 64 have been de-contained with no positive cases for the last 28 days. 62-year-old recovers from corona: One Sheo Nath Sah (62), a resident of Bahrouli village under Mashrakh block of Saran district, has recovered from coronavirus and returned home from the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) in Patna. Sah had got the infection while returning from Kolkata by a bus during the lockdown. He tested positive at a quarantine centre and was sent to the NMCH. He was released after his second and third reports came negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/39-new-covid-cases-in-saran/articleshow/77135075.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Patna||10 north Bihar districts hit by flood, 7.6 lakh people affected||PATNA: As several rivers continued to flow above the danger mark, the flood-affected population in north Bihar went up from 6.3 lakh on Wednesday to 7.6 lakh by Thursday evening. According to the disaster management department’s daily flood bulletin, altogether 64 blocks have been affected by floods across 10 districts, including East Champaran, West Champaran, Gopalganj, Muzaffarpur, Sitamarhi, Sheohar, Supaul, Kishanganj, Darbhanga, and Khagaria. However, Thursday saw a reduction in the intensity of rainfall in the region as well as a falling trend in the water level. The state government has initiated several steps for flood rescue and rehabilitation, including deployment of 13 NDRF teams and eight teams of eight State Disaster Response Force. The Bagmati and Adhwara are flowing above the danger level at all 10 flood gauges in Sitamarhi, Madhubani, Darbhanga, Muzafarpur and Samastipur districts. Kosi was also flowing above the danger level at four places in Supual, Khagaria, Bhagalpur and Saharsa districts on Thursday. Kamla Balan was flowing above its danger level at two flood gauges on the fourth consecutive day on Thursday. Burhi Gandak, Lalbakeya and Khiroi rivers were also flowing above danger level at several places in north Bihar. There is, however, a silver lining that water levels in most rivers in north Bihar are showing a falling trend, except Burhi Gandak in Samastipur district and Ghaghra in Siwan. Water level in Kamla river was also showing a falling trend in the catchment area falling under Nepal. Discharge from Valmikinagar barrage on Gandak in West Champaran, which is being said to be mainly responsible for inundation in several neighboring districts, also came down from 4.36lakh cusec on Tuesday to 2 lakh cusec by Thursday afternoon. Weathermen have forecast moderate to heavy rainfall in the coming days in the catchment areas of rivers flowing into Bihar from Nepal as well as several districts in north Bihar. The daily weather bulletin issued by the water resources department on Thursday evening, however, stated that several districts in north Bihar, including Araria, Kishanganj, Supaul, Saharsa, Madhepura and Katihar are expected to witness widespread rainfall on Saturday. An official at Patna meteorological centre claimed that light to moderate rainfall is expected at majority of places in Bihar over the next 24hours, along with heavy rainfall at one or two places along the Ganga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/10-north-bihar-dists-hit-by-flood-7-6l-people-affected/articleshow/77134359.cms||Piyush Tripathi
July 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Crackdown by Punjab FDA to check adulteration of milk, milk products||CHANDIGARH: The food and drug administration (FDA), Punjab launched a crackdown to check adulteration of milk and milk products and seized spurious products in large quantity. Special teams conducted checks at night and busted supply chain of spurious paneer being sold at low price, said FDA commissioner Kahan Singh Pannu. The raid, which was conducted on a tip-off, included checking the premises of dealer of dairy equipment and reagents, manufacturing unit of paneer and retailer of cheap spurious paneer. Raid started with Aggarwal Equipment Pvt Ltd, near the bus stand in Ludhiana. The owner’s shop and godowns were inspected and samples of desi ghee were taken. This led the team to raid a paneer manufacturing unit Mukand Milk Centre in Matoi village, Malerkotla in Sangrur. Milk in the unit was brought from Rajasthan without maintaining a proper cold chain. The team then traced another retailer Luxmi Dairy, Tibba road Ludhiana who was selling paneer at low price. Inspection and sampling were done. The raid led to seizure of 135 litres of ghee, 8,000 litres of milk in milk tankers from Rajasthan, 1,200 litres of milk in another centre and 100kg of paneer. The inspection teams consisted of assistant commissioner food Amrit pal Singh Sodhi, food safety officer Sandeep Singh and food safety officer Yogesh Goyal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/crackdown-by-fda-to-check-adulteration-of-milk-milk-products/articleshow/77137102.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Kolkata||Covid may force Presidency, Jadavpur University admission minus tests||KOLKATA: With no end to the Covid situation and the state notifying the state-aided universities to begin admissions from August 10, the entrance examinations to undergraduate programmes in Jadavpur University and Presidency University are uncertain. Sources said that in JU, the teachers in humanities and science faculties have been advised to prepare a formula to be adopted in absence of admission tests. In 2019, for all humanities subjects at JU, entrance tests were conducted by the authorities. “We shall hold faculty council meetings next week. The matter will then be placed before the admissions committee. JU is likely to start distributing admission forms from August,” said a faculty member. The proposals being considered by individual departments include the decision to take into account aspects of a candidate’s performance in the Class-X boards to determine merit since several papers had been suspended in the HS level. “Similarly, it should be left to individual departments to decide if seats should be allotted on a pro rata basis for different boards,” said physics faculty member at JU Partha Pratim Ray. All these points have been put forward by the Jadavpur University Teachers Association (JUTA) and the opinions of the two faculties have been sought by Friday. “Though admission tests are a necessity, it is impossible to hold them this year. Also, several candidates who apply to JU come from distant towns and villages and do not have the means to appear for online exam-inations,” added another JU official. In Presidency University, senior officials said the decision to hold online or offline entrance examinations, announcing fresh dates or returning to the old method of marks-based admission will be decided by the West Bengal Joint Entrance Examination Board — which conducts the admission tests. “Looking at the current condition, it is unlikely that we will be able to begin the academic session any time soon,” said a Presidency University official. The Presidency University Bachelors Degree Entrance Test (PUBDET), which was scheduled for April, has been postponed due to the pandemic. A decision will, however, be taken by both universities by August 10 when the admissions must begin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-may-force-presi-ju-admission-minus-tests/articleshow/77135709.cms||Somdatta Basu
July 24, 2020||Kolkata||App-cab survey: Kolkata tops list of delivery trips||KOLKATA: In a survey conducted among 25 cities, Kolkata has emerged as the one with the highest number of trips in the Uber Connect category while Bengaluru logged the highest number of trips to hospitals or pharmacies under Uber Essential. Uber operated three categories — Uber Last Mile Delivery, Uber Essential and Uber Connect — and completed 1,00,000 orders in the last-mile delivery and 45,000 trips in the essential category. Ola also completed 2,00,000 essential medical trips across 25 cities during the lockdown. Uber Connect helps with delivery of books, clothes, office equipment and food. Uber Essential helps facilitate travel to hospitals, pharmacies and clinics. Chennai, Kolkata and Bengaluru had the highest volume of orders in the Uber last-mile connectivity category, which delivers grocery and essentials in collaboration with e-commerce and retail chains. “Beyond helping riders, these three services helped create earning opportunities for our driver-partners... We knew the lockdown impacted our drivers’ livelihoods the most and did not charge commission for the services, enabling them to keep 100% of the billed amounts,” said an Uber spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/app-cab-survey-kol-tops-list-of-delivery-trips/articleshow/77135732.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
July 24, 2020||Business||‘China scored over India with customer ownership’||BENGALURU: Billionaire banker and founder of Kotak Mahindra Bank, Uday Kotak, said it is critical to have complete ownership of customers for real leadership in the digital world, where countries like China have scored over India. He cited examples of Chinese conglomerates like Alibaba and Tencent. He was speaking at the Global Fintech Fest, talking about Indian entrepreneurial products that can be global at scale. “India has been a little late to the party. On the other hand, China had nothing on the technology front. It started from scratch and probably built a strong domestic national ownership kind of a platform and did not allow some of the global majors like Google, Amazon to capture their market in the early stages. India was pretty open, and I’m not saying that was wrong….but we kept our markets open and we led a lot of consumers’ ownership to move away to global majors,” he said. The Kotak Bank chief cited the example of his own product, 811 accounts, and that he has to pay these platforms to source customers. “Many of those customers are sourced from Google or Facebook and we are paying a price to them because they are rendering a service or a lead. The customer goes on to Google or Facebook and not on what we have created as domestic products and platforms,” Kotak said. His comments come at a time when the Indian government is looking to scrutinise the influence of capital from China in the domestic economy and recently banned 59 Chinese apps. Then, Reliance’s Jio Platforms raised around $20 billion from technology majors like Google and Facebook. “We haven’t done it in the past, but we are seeing early developments on that with some of the very large players now, including some of them in the telecom sectors,” Kotak added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/china-scored-over-india-with-customer-ownership/articleshow/77136700.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Business||Irdai directs Max Life to rejig Axis Bank deal||MUMBAI: The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Irdai) has asked Max Life Insurance to rework its deal with Axis Bank. The regulator has not agreed to the ‘value creation options’ condition that allowed Axis Bank to exit at a fixed price. In April, the private bank had agreed to hike its stake in the life insurer to 30% for Rs 1,600 crore. Meanwhile, the insurance regulator has separately come out with new norms for transfer of shares by listed and unlisted insurance companies. In listed company transactions, which involve a stake in the insurance company of more than 1% but less than 5%, the buyers, fit and proper declaration has to be provided. Also, the seller should immediately inform the deal to the regulator. For transfers above 5%, the seller and buyer have to take prior permission from the Irdai through the insurance company. The new norms will also apply for the creation of a pledge on shares. In a communication to the stock exchange on Thursday, both Max Financial Services and Axis Bank said that, based on correspondence from Irdai, Axis Bank and Max Life have agreed to make some changes to the value creation options and factor in some alternate mechanisms, subject to regulatory approvals and as may be permitted under applicable law. In terms of the April 2020 agreement between Max Life and Axis Bank, if the value creation options are not consummated within 63 months of the closing of the deal, Axis Bank can exercise a put option with Max Financial — parent of Max Life — to sell its shares in the insurance company at a Rs 294 per share. According to banking sources, despite acquiring a stake, the deal would have been capital-accretive to Axis Bank as it would earn a steady revenue by way of commissions from selling life insurance. Axis Bank can exercise a put option on Max Financial to sell all its shares in Max Life at a price of Rs 294 apiece within nine months of such a move. In terms of the earlier agreement, Max Financial was to divest a 28.6% stake in its insurance arm for Rs 1,600 crore, which values the company at Rs 5,667 crore. Max Financial, which is a holding company for Max Life, had a market cap of Rs 15,350 crore on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/irdai-directs-max-life-to-rejig-axis-bank-deal/articleshow/77136737.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Madurai||Many cheer scrapping of TN semester exams, but worry over marks||MADURAI: After the state government on Thursday decided to scrap semester exams for engineering and arts college students studying both UG and PG courses except for final years, both colleges and students in Madurai district welcomed the move. However, there is still uncertainty looming over calculation of marks for the exam. “It is a welcome move. Even for final year students, UGC is planning to hold exams only in September, which may even get postponed due to the pandemic. If for other students it is going to be held even later, it would greatly affect students’ morale. Further, the students’ next semester would get more delayed. Now, they can concentrate on their next semester without fear,” said Dr D Pandiaraja, principal, Thiagarajar College of Arts and Science. Students of engineering and arts colleges also heaved a sigh of relief. “We were really worried when exams kept getting postponed. Further, in our college, some of the portions were also not completed and we were supposed to study those topics through online classes. We were not so confident of preparing for exams that way,” said Anupriya S, a first year BSc maths student. Meanwhile, students are anxious about how marks will be awarded for the particular semester exams. “Though we are yet to receive any guidelines, it is most likely that the marks will be awarded based on their performance in internal exams. A majority of students actually score well in internal exams more than externals. However, in case of an absentee or someone with single digit scores in internal exams, perhaps online tests for the particular internal exam could be permitted and those marks could be considered,” said Dr Davamani M Christober, principal, The American College. Similarly, in engineering colleges as well, while colleges and students welcomed the move to cancel exams, they, too, are uncertain regarding awarding of marks. Dr S Rajaram, registrar-academics, Thiagarajar College of Engineering said that they are yet to receive any guidelines for awarding of marks but that it is likely to be based on performance of students in internal exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/many-cheer-scrapping-of-sem-exams-but-worry-over-marks/articleshow/77143843.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Surat||Man loses Rs 1 lakh in debit card fraud||SURAT: Pandesara police booked an unidentified person on Wednesday on charges of allegedly withdrawing Rs 1 lakh fraudulently from the bank account of an employee of a dying unit with his debit card. The complainant said he was was saving money for a marriage in the family and the bank had assured him of getting his money back in 90 days. But after he did not receive any money in his account, Kamlesh Varma, a resident of Pandesara and native of Bihar, lodged the complaint with police. Varma was told by officials of State Bank of India’s (SBI) Piyush Point branch that someone cloned his debit card and withdrew cash. Cops registered an offence under sections of Indian Penal Code for criminal breach of trust and cheating and also under the Information Technology Act. In his complaint Varma alleged that he went to withdraw cash from an SBI ATM in Althan on January 28. He withdrew Rs 5,000 and went home. Later, he went to withdraw more cash from another SBI ATM on Terenam Road on February 5 but could not withdraw money despite multiple attempts. He then went to the bank’s branch at Piyush Point and checked the balance in his account. The bank officials informed him that there is no balance in his account and also provided him details showing that the money was withdrawn in multiple transactions using his debit card. Varma was asked to give a written complaint by the bank officials and informed that he will receive the money back in his account in 90 days. Meanwhile, during lockdown Varma did not receive the money and when he went to check at the bank he was informed that someone cloned his debit card and used the debit card PIN to withdraw money. On coming to know about the fraud he approached police and lodged a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/man-loses-rs-1-lakh-in-debit-card-fraud/articleshow/77135649.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Chikkamagaluru man held for selling railway tickets illegally||MYSURU: Personnel from the Mysuru division of Railway Protection Force (RPF) have arrested a man from Chikkamagaluru for illegally selling railway tickets. The accused, Manish Jain, was picked up for allegedly procuring and supplying railway tickets. RPF personnel have recovered IRCTC e-tickets valued at Rs 24,880 (generated from his e-mail ID) from him. He has booked and sold multiple IRCTC tickets at premium rates, according to Priya Shetty, divisional commercial manager and PRO, SWR (Mysuru division). An RPF officer said Manish had been into this illegal business for the past two years and had been sending e-tickets/ SMSes to passengers using social media platforms. “Only the railways or registered agents are authorised to sell tickets. Despite not being an agent, he was into booking tickets for a profit. The mobile phone that was being used to generate tickets has been confiscated from him. He has been booked under Section 143 of Railways Act (2003), the officer stated. Special judicial magistrate court (railways) has sent him in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/chikkamagaluru-man-held-for-selling-rly-tickets-illegally/articleshow/77133326.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Varanasi||Nodal officer of Covid cell, 67 others test +ve in UP's Gorakhpur||GORAKHPUR: As many as 68 new persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Gorakhpur including the Gorakhnath circle officer and three other policemen on Wednesday. The Covid tally of Gorakhpur has now reached 1,275. On Wednesday, a total of 344 samples were tested, out of which 68 people were found positive. Infected Gorakhnath CO, Pravin Singh, is also a nodal officer in the Covid-19 cell. Out of the 68 Covid positive cases, 47 are from the urban areas of Gorakhpur and 21 are from rural areas. Three cops of Cant police station were also among the 68 corona positive persons detected on Wednesday. CO Pravin Singh is undergoing treatment at a private hospital. As per CMO Dr Srikant Tiwari, with the discharge of 670 recovered persons from different Covid facilities, there are 575 active cases under treatment currently. As many as 30 positive residents of Gorakhpur have died so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/nodal-officer-of-covid-cell-67-others-test-ve-in-gorakhpur/articleshow/77136323.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Patna||Patna University to start online PhD course work||PATNA: For the first time, Patna University (PU) is going to start online PhD course work soon. All necessary formalities have been completed by the university. PU examination controller R K Mandal told this newspaper that the decision was taken at a meeting of the deans of faculties and heads of department chaired by vice-chancellor H N Prasad last month. Subsequently, the faculty of science decided to start the online course work from July 15. But, it could not materialize owing to the announcement of the lockdown on July 10. Now the online classes would commence as soon as the lockdown is over, said PU botany department head M P Trivedi. The six-month mandatory course work would be held in two parts of three months each. The first part on research methodology would be conducted by the dean of the faculty concerned and the second part would be organized by the respective department head. PU has already decided to conduct online viva voce examination for its PhD scholars. Scholars whose theses have already been evaluated and the reports of all the examiners have been found satisfactory may appear for their PhD viva voce examination through videoconferencing, Mandal said. However, both the scholar and his or her supervisor would have to be physically present at the department concerned during viva voce examination. Only the external examiners would be allowed to conduct the viva through videoconferencing, said Mandal, adding the online viva voce examination will be held soon. Meanwhile, some senior faculty members of PU observed that the number of scholars being awarded PhD degrees has declined considerably in recent years. Getting a PhD degree from any university has become a difficult proposition for most scholars as they are required to devote much time on research work. People in jobs would hardly find so much time for doing PhD. All the scholars are required to do a six-month mandatory pre-PhD course work and any employed scholar won’t be able to complete it unless he gets at least six months’ leave from his employer. Moreover, the university has of late adopted a foolproof mechanism for checking plagiarism in PhD work, sources added. Interestingly, there is virtually no taker for the once most coveted DLitt or DSc degrees these days. Not a single scholar has been awarded a DLitt or DSc degree in PU for the last one decade or so. And, quite recently, the regulations governing the award of DLitt and DSc degrees have been thoroughly revised by the chancellor, making the procurement of this prestigious degree more difficult, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pu-to-start-online-phd-course-work/articleshow/77134201.cms||B K Mishra
July 24, 2020||Patna||JD(U) MLC’s husband, RJD neta die of Covid in Bihar||PATNA: Former chief of Gaya Zila Parishad Bindeshwari Prasad Yadav alias Bindi Yadav, husband of JD(U) MLC Manorma Devi, died at a private hospital in Patna due to Covid-19 on Thursday. A day before, former chairman of Danapur Nagar Parishad and RJD functionary Raj Kishore Yadav had succumbed to Covid-19 at AIIMS-Patna. CM Nitish Kumar has expressed condolence over the death of Bindi and Raj Kishore. He also held a telephonic conversation with MLC Manorma Devi. Bindi was admitted at ANMMCH in Gaya on Tuesday and was on oxygen. He was shifted to a private hospital in Patna on Wednesday. Raj Kishore (57) was admitted to AIIMS-Patna on July 17. AIIMS-Patna nodal incharge for Covid-19 Dr Sanjeev Kumar said though Raj Kishore he died late on Wednesday evening, his death was reported officially on Thursday. Covid-19 seems to have spread its tentacle in the political corridor of Bihar with several political leaders testing positive and some succumbing to the virus. On Tuesday night, BJP MLC Sunil Singh (66) had died of the virus at AIIMS-P.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-mlcs-husband-rjd-neta-die-of-covid/articleshow/77134292.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Patna||Patna: Covid fear among staffers puts private hospitals in a fix||PATNA: Of the 28 private hospitals given the go-ahead by the Patna district administration to start Covid-19 treatment, Paras HMRI Hospital has become the first off the block by admitting around 24 patients so far. However, even Paras is yet to start its dedicated Covid facility. HMRI regional director (east) Dr Talat Halim said altogether 24 patients were admitted in an isolation ward but they are yet to start the 30-bed Covid ward. “Where we are keeping Covid patients is not a dedicated ward, but it has all the facilities. The hospital is also facing shortage of manpower as several doctors are pretending to be sick to avoid work. We have asked the DM to take action against such medical staff as per law,” Dr Halim added. Other private hospitals claimed that they are facing several challenges, including low manpower, medical staff shunning work due to the virus scare and only one entrance and exit route at some hospitals. SN Dubey, administrative officer of Sahyog Hospital in Patliputra Colony said it would take another 2-3 days to start the facility for Covid patients. “We have enough beds and equipment needed for treatment of Covid patients, but the major challenge that we are facing is reluctance of medical staff. Seven out of eight medicine doctors have stopped coming to work in protest,” he added. Dubey further said, “Other doctors have also started shunning work. They fear getting infected as they are all above 55 and suffering from diabetes and hypertension. Besides, the director’s residence is inside the hospital and he is above 80. Secondly, we have common entry and exit point for all patients. Lastly, it is a residential area, so people are also reluctant.” Other hospitals such as Jagdish Memorial Hospital, Sri Ram Hospital, Medizone Hospital, CNS Hospital and Medipark Hospital are also facing similar situations. Big Apollo Spectra Hospital at Agamkuan was hopeful of starting its Covid isolation ward from Monday. “We are also facing similar problems, but we are trying to motivate our doctors and medical staff. The hospital will start treatment of Covid patients from July 27 and for that we have prepared an eight-bed isolation ward and one ventilator. Other preparations are in full swing,” said Kamlesh Mishra, marketing manager of the hospital. Satyendra Singh, administrator of Rajeshwar Hospital at Kankerbagh, said medical staffers were not ready to work if they convert hospital rooms into isolation ward for Covid. “We are ready to take all precautionary and safety measures, but they are worried that they might get infected and infect others in their family. We have 250 medical staff strength,” he said. Private hospitals discussed these challenges with Patna DM Kumar Ravi through video-conferencing on Thursday at a review meeting. “The hospitals are facing a few challenges so we have given more time to them to sort out the issues. The administration would see what can be done,” the DM said, adding, two or three private hospitals have assured that their Covid facilities are nearing completion. Ravi has instructed the private hospitals to keep the Covid unit separate from the general ward. “It takes time to complete all preparations including separate ICU beds, ventilators, oxygen supply for critical patients, adequate PPE kits and other protective gears, shutting air- conditions and blocking ventilations among others,” he said. He added, “Besides, the main aim of these private hospital is to provide proper medical care to patients. For that, they have to depute and form a dedicated team of doctors, housekeeping staff and cleaners. There should also be proper disposal of PPE kit and dead bodies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-fear-among-staffers-puts-private-hospitals-in-a-fix/articleshow/77134178.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 24, 2020||Patna||Two-thirds of Gaya Covid patients in home isolation||GAYA: More than two-thirds of the people, who were tested positive for Covid-19 in Gaya district, are under home quarantine. The number of Covid active cases in the district stood at 726 on Thursday. In the last one week, fresh cases have registered a growth of about 90 per day. Gaya DM Abhishek Singh said health status of those in home isolation was being properly monitored and they have been given detailed briefing about do’s and dont’s. “Data about the space and other facilities available at home is collected at the time of the test,” he said. The DM further said that earlier, some people gave wrong address and mobile number and as such tracing such persons is a problem. “Now the mobile number is verified at the test centre itself,” he said. However, the Gaya chapter of IMA has cautioned against indiscriminate home isolation. “Before allowing home isolation, authorities must satisfy themselves that the person has the resources as well as awareness to strictly maintain the isolation protocol. It should not be allowed without due application of mind on a case to case basis,” said Gaya IMA chief Dr Ram Sewak Prasad Singh. Meanwhile, the surge in active cases in the last few days has led to concerns about shortage of isolation beds in government hospitals. As per official documents, 325 isolation beds are available in Anugrah Narain Magadh Medical College Hospital (ANMMCH), while 50 isolation beds are available in sub-divisional hospital Tekari, 30 beds in sub-divisional hospital Sherghati and another 20 beds in APHC. Besides these, 44 isolation beds are also available in Imperial Hotel, Bodh Gaya, the designated isolation centre. Thus the total number of beds available in the district is now 469. The DM also said that there is no shortage of isolation beds as most of asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic people prefer home isolation. “NGOs are also welcome to establish isolation centres and the district administration will offer all assistance to them. It was a collective fight and everybody has to make his or her contribution,” he said. An Isolation Cell has been constituted in the collectorate and interested NGOs are required to get registered with the cell headed by the ADM. Civil Surgeon is also a member of the cell, the DM said. However, IMA, Gaya chief Singh reiterated his demand to use the 20 ventilators earlier acquired for the proposed trauma centre. “In case the ventilators have gone dysfunctional due to non-use, they may be made functional,” said the IMA chief. Asked about the status of ventilators procured for the proposed trauma centre, ANMMCH Superintendent Dr Harichand Hari said he joined only a few days back and was not aware of the facts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-thirds-of-gaya-covid-patients-in-home-isolation/articleshow/77135097.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Patna||Milk parlour owner killed in Patna City||PATNA: One Vinay Kumar Tiwari (48), owner of a milk parlour, was shot dead by unidentified criminals outside a temple near Gaighat bridge under the Alamganj police station area in Patna City on Thursday. The deceased’s daughter told police that his father had an altercation with a local over giving Rs100 in coins at the milk parlour a couple of days ago. The man in question had threatened Tiwari with dire consequences before leaving the spot. Police said a youth wielding illegal weapon accosted Tiwari and fired at him when he was on way to his milk parlour after offering morning prayers at Durga temple around 5.30am. The assailant was accompanied by his associate on a motorbike. While the criminals fled on their two-wheeler, Tiwari fell on the road, bleeding profusely. His wife and daughter rushed to the spot after being informed about the incident. Tiwari was immediately taken to PMCH where the doctors declared him brought dead. SHO of Alamganj police station Sudhir Kumar said CCTV footages have been obtained from the nearby shops to ascertain the identity of the criminals. “Raids are on to arrest them,” he added. The murder evoked sharp criticism from former CM Rabri Devi. Slamming the state government for its “failure” to check law and order in the state, Rabri said, “This is ‘rakshash raj’ in which innocent people are being killed for Rs 100.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/milk-parlour-owner-killed-in-patna-city/articleshow/77135177.cms||Ramashankar
July 24, 2020||Vadodara||Hotspot once, Nagarwada takes Covid by the horns||Vadodara: After it made headlines in April being compared to some of the worst Covid-affected places in the state or country, Nagarwada and its surrounding areas made an earnest effort to clean its nCov slate. Today, one has to make an effort to locate this ‘once-upon-a-time hotspot’ in the list of areas from where cases are being reported. Nagarwada and the surrounding localities fall under the jurisdiction of the Navidharti urban health center (UHC). While the north zone of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) is seeing a consistent rise in the number of cases, hardly any case is being reported from Nagarwada. The health workers in this area remained on their toes while battling the virus and people’s ire for the pandemic situation. From strict implementation of containment zone rules to other civic issues, altercations were a frequent scene here. But the undivided attention on the area seems to have benefited it too. Officials were able to focus and ensure enough manpower as well as facilities in the area so that everybody got good treatment. “It can be looked like a case of people building herd immunity. Many would have been infected in the area, but strict containment ensured that it did not spread further,” said medical officer (health) Dr Devesh Patel. The other factors that helped contain the contagion were the involvement of the Baroda Muslim Doctors Association (BMDA) which, along with community leaders took up the onus of door-to-door visits and giving medicines to the residents. BMDA distributed hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) tablets and ensured that the residents took the prophylaxis regularly. A Covid-19 care centre was also established by the group to cater to people in Nagarwada. Residents were also provided with ayurvedic immunity-boosting ‘kaadha’ and homeopathic medicines to ward off the threat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/hotspot-once-nagarwada-takes-covid-by-the-horns/articleshow/77135122.cms||Sachin Sharma
July 24, 2020||Surat||SMC warrior doesn’t stop to mourn mother’s death||Surat: “Don’t mourn my death but deliver your duty and serve the needy, son,” were her last words to Dineshchandra Jariwala, zonal chief of Surat Municipal Corporation’s (SMC) Varachha-A zone, before the 76-year-old woman breathed her last on July 16. True to her words, Jariwala resumed duty on the third day of his mother’s demise to continue his battle against the pandemic. Kanta Jariwala was admitted in a private hospital on July 8 after her oxygen levels dipped owing to viral pneumonia. However, being in the midst of the spike in Covid-19 cases in Varachha zone, Jariwala did not take a day’s leave and continued to serve both his mother and the community every single day. Being the zonal chief of Varachha-A zone, Jariwala had to handle many responsibilities including cleanliness, coordinating with health teams, micro-planning of hotspots, deployment of Dhanvantri Raths, monitoring health surveillance among a host of other allied duties. “A day before she passed away on July 16, my mother told me not to perform my duty to serve people suffering from Covid-19 in Varachha. Even when she was in hospital, she would ask me not to waste time there and be on the field and concentrate on my work. I kept my promise given to her and joined duty on the third day of her death,” Jariwala told TOI. He recalled how his parents working in a zari unit would try to provide him the right kind of education in life in their small one-room house in Begumpura and despite all financial problems and made him capable of joining the municipal services. “My parents were overjoyed after I got a government job in SMC. It’s their blessings,” an emotional surcharged son added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-warrior-doesnt-stop-to-mourn-mothers-death/articleshow/77135511.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Business||Helmet prices dip by 20% on new BSI norms||Chennai: The new BIS standards for helmets — which has done away with the weight limit for rider and pillion rider helmets — will help reduce costs by 10%-20% and will lead to a whole new range of low cost and low price helmets in the Indian market said Two Wheeler Helmet Manufacturers Association president Rajeev Kapur. “Around 90%-95% of helmet sales, which are in the entry level category, will now be in the 700gm to 1.2 kg category where prices will be less Rs 1,000,” he said. The heavier and more expensive and will be restricted to the small niche of speciality riders, he added. Kapur’s Steelbird Helmets, has already launched a 700 gm light weight open face helmet priced at Rs 759 and another 800 gm open face helmet for Rs 849. “Earlier the weight restrictions meant that you could not sell to Department of Transportation (US standard DOT) or ECE (Economic Commission for Europe) certified helmets in India. We were exporting 1,400-1,500 gm speciality helmets to Korea, Philippines for example but couldn't sell them in India. Now we can which offers better choice for riders and high-end motor sport consumers because Indian certification is not good enough for motorsport standards,” said Sidharth Khurana, MD, Studds. This, he added, will also help Indian exporters gain scale particularly since globally markets have been turning away from made in China helmets. Markets in Europe and Latin America are looking for non-Chinese made helmets so the focus is shifting to the three other big producers — India, Indonesia and Vietnam. “We are launching two new top end helmet products in the 1,100 gm range that are both American and European standard compliant priced at around Rs 8,000. The performance segment of the market is currently 8%-10% but growing very fast. This new guideline means we can also export more,” said Uttam Chandak, director-R&D, Vega Auto. While the weight restriction removal opens up the door to imports, currently the imported helmet segment is a minuscule 83,000 units per year for a helmet industry that’s 100 million units per annum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/helmet-prices-dip-by-20-on-new-bsi-norms/articleshow/77136048.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
July 24, 2020||Mangaluru||For this researcher, lockdown helped write eight research papers||Mangaluru: With laboratories shut and no field trips during the lockdown, a researcher from the National Centre for Biological Sciences, Bengaluru, utilised the time to finalise and submit five research manuscripts. Zeeshan A Mirza, who has authored 75 papers on 43 new species of spiders, scorpions, lizards and snakes, told TOI: “This is probably the longest time I have remained indoors. I have utilised this time fruitfully— planning future projects and compiling data collected over the years from field visits. Out of five papers submitted, one has been accepted. A paper on a new lizard from the state for which research was undertaken two years ago has been accepted.” He has also submitted papers on a new snake from Western Ghats and lizard from Arunachal Pradesh, for which the data was collected last year. A paper on the new bush frog from Western Ghats has also been submitted, Zeeshan said. While Zeeshan is expected to publish research papers on eight new species of spiders, snakes and lizards by the year end, during the lockdown, papers on two new species of scorpions and a new snake species was published. On the new scorpion species, Janalychas granulatus and Janalychas keralaensis, he said that they are distributed across southern Maharashtra, Goa and northern Karnataka, and across northern Kerala and southern Karnataka respectively. There are close to 130 species of scorpions known from India and Zeeshan believes that more species await discovery. His second paper from the Arunachal expedition conducted last year was released recently. The new species is a pit viper, described from Pakke Tiger Reserve has been named Trimeresurus salazar after Salazar Slytherin, a fictional character from JK Rowling’s Harry Potter series. Zeeshan, with his colleagues, has been working to document the diversity of arachnids, reptiles and amphibians across India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/for-this-researcher-lockdown-helped-write-eight-research-papers/articleshow/77135796.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
July 24, 2020||Surat||Group distributes masks to commuters in friend’s memory||Surat: A group of six friends kept the memories of their friend alive by distributing 1,000 face masks to commuters on Wednesday. Their homage to Kabir Maratha, who lost his life in a road accident in January 2018, was part of city cops’ ‘iFollow’ traffic rules awareness campaign. The seven graduated from Sir K P Commerce College in 2013 and joined different jobs but their friendship remained as strong as ever. “The unfortunate incident took place when Kabir was going on his scooter and met with an accident in Nanpura. He was not wearing a helmet,” said Ravi Jadav, one of the friends who said that the six of them decided to form a group after Maratha’s demise and named it the Aavkar Group. “We formed the group in memory of Kabir and undertook traffic rules awareness activities in the college where we studied together. We also did various welfare activities during the lockdown,” Jadav added. The friends distributed the masks at Udhna Darwaja. “The group wanted to support the traffic police’s initiative with the distribution of masks. They are planning to distribute masks in other areas as well,” said S M Joshi, police inspector. Meanwhile, the city traffic police will organize a drive to sell helmets to commuters caught without the headgear on Saturday. “Those caught without helmet police will not collect fine but they will have to purchase a helmet. It is a way to create awareness,” said Prashant Sumbe, deputy commissioner of police, traffic. A superbike owners group from the city will also hold a rally in support of the ‘iFollow’ campaign on Saturday. “Only a limited number of participants will take part in the rally but they will be properly dressed in safety gear to create awareness,” added Sumbe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/group-distributes-masks-to-commuters-in-friends-memory/articleshow/77135463.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Amritsar||Efforts on to rejuvenate Taksali outfit: Ranjit Singh Brahmpura||AMRITSAR: Having lost support of co-founders of SAD (Taksali), party president Ranjit Singh Brahmpura is on a mission to rejuvenate the political outfit. He is exploring the possibility of shaking hands with other like-minded panthic and political outfits. The SAD faction led by Rajya Sabha member Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa has also sent feelers of exploring possibilities of forging an alliance with other parties ahead of 2022 assembly elections. Both groups have not ruled out the possibility of a truce ahead of elections for what they call the “larger benefit” of Punjab. Talking to TOI, Brahmpura said, “A party doesn’t comprise two-three persons; it has a mass base, cadre, core committee, working committees, district and circle presidents, and a whole infrastructure which is still there. We will rejuvenate it and give a strong and reliable political option to the people of Punjab.” Stating that desertions were common, he said the party held its core committee meeting recently and decided to launch a membership drive. “Our workers will be going house to house in every village to tell party’s vision , make new members and we will once again make the party strong” he said, adding that they were also in touch with other political parties to forge an alliance. His son and former MLA Ravinder Singh Brahmpura said that they were in touch with other likeminded parties like BSP and AAP, but activities had slowed down due to the pandemic. Sewa Singh Sekhwan, one of the founders of SAD (T) who went on to form SAD (Democratic) led by Dhindsa, said they would continue to try to bring Brahampura to their fold. “We will also like to have ties with likeminded parties like BSP and AAP,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/efforts-on-to-rejuvenate-taksali-outfit-brahmpura/articleshow/77137099.cms||Yudhvir Rana
July 24, 2020||Mysuru||Vishwanath may become minister soon: Prasad||Mysuru: Former Union minister and Chamarajanagar MP V Srinivasa Prasad on Thursday hinted at the elevation of newly nominated MLC AH Vishwanath as a minister in Yediyurappa government. Referring to the ups and downs that the former minister has faced since a year after his resignation from the assembly membership and consequently disqualification, which was revoked by the Supreme Court, Prasad said, “Vishwanath has been climbing one step at a time. Now he has reached a position. Let’s wait about his elevation.” Applauding the CM for keeping his word extended to the disqualified MLAs, Prasad said it is Vishwanath who helped BJP get back to power. “Many who were with him have been inducted into the ministry,” he said when asked if Vishwanath will get a look-in. Vishwanath met Prasad at his residence and discussed political developments. He said there are no hurdles for him to become a minister. “We have been asked to face the electorate by the SC, which we did. There are no hurdles to be elevated as minister,” adding that it is the CM’s decision. Vishwanath took on former CM Siddaramaiah for seeking details about the money spent for Covid management. “He is the opposition leader. He can question the government on the floor of the house. It is improper to seek details now,” he said. He also criticised former CM HD Kumaraswamy for blaming him for toppling his government a year back. “He is speaking only half truth. Let him reveal everything,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/vishwanath-may-become-minister-soon-prasad/articleshow/77134255.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Surat||Plasma turns life saviour for Covid-19 patients in Surat||Surat: Convalescent plasma therapy has proved effective in nearly 80% of the critical Covid-19 patients in the city. According to official sources, 50 people including doctors, who recovered from the infection have donated their plasma at the SMIMER Hospital and as many have given plasma at the New Civil Hospital as on Wednesday.“Our experience with plasma treatment has been very encouraging. Of the 15 patients who were administered this therapy, 13 did not have to go for ventilator support,” said Mayur Jagar, in-charge of the blood bank at NCH.Importantly, the blood banks run by SMIMER and NCH have started giving plasma received from recovered patients to private doctors in the city.“We have started calling plasma donors for the second time as people can donate plasma every fortnight. People from all walks of life are coming forward now,” said Dr. Ankita Shah, professor and head, immunohematology and blood transfusion (IHBT) department at SMIMER.Importantly, kin of Covid-19 patients are also contacting the recovered patients seeking plasma.“We are giving plasma to private doctors who are treating Covid-19 patients and there is a huge demand from them,” said Dr Shah. At present, private laboratories don’t have permission to collect plasma of recovered patients.Proper identification and timing of administering convalescent plasma is the key. Plasma can benefit in the situation wherein a patient suffers sudden deterioration of oxygen in the first week of illness ,’‘ Dr. Dhanesh Vaidya, nephrologist at Apple Hospital told TOI.Dr. Mahesh Sutariya, a critical care specialist at Unity Hospital, added, “We need plasma in large quantities as its results are encouraging. Government should allow blood banks to collect plasma so that doctors can get it in required quantities.”BIZMAN’S GRATITUDE HAT-TRICK Surat: A 24-year-old businessman Faizal Chunara, a resident of Karimabad Society at Ghod Dod Road, on Thursday donated his plasma for the third time at New Civil Hospital (NCH) in. Doctors say that is the first Covid-19 recovered person in Gujarat, who has donated plasma for the third time."Doctors at NCH helped me recover and now its my turn to express my gratitude by donating plasma,'' Chunara told TOI. "We appreciate the generosity of Faizal who has been donating plasma for Covid-19 patients treatment. He is an inspiration for others,'' said Dr. Mayur Jagar, in-charge of blood bank at NCH.DOCTOR PLASMA SECOND TIME Surat: Dr. Kishor Dudhat, an orthopaedic surgeon, donated his plasma for the second time in a fortnight. Dr Dudhat was the first in Surat city to donate plasma at SMIMER Hospital on July 5 when the hospital’s blood bank had started plasma collection for Covid-19 patients.“At present, there are a number of patients who can’t afford costly life-saving injections due to shortage. Plasma treatment results are encouraging, so I I urge other recovered patients as well to donate their plasma,’‘ Dr. Dudhat told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/plasma-turns-life-saviour-for-covid-19-patients-in-surat/articleshow/77135392.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
July 24, 2020||Surat||DGGI unearths Rs 11 crore tax evasion by Surat, Silvassa firms||Surat: In simultaneous raids on two companies in Surat and union territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli (DNH) on Thursday, the Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) unearthed tax evasion to the tune of Rs 11 crore.In the first case, the DGGI officials had received information about Prince SWR systems private limited which had allegedly evaded GST and skipped filing GSTR-3B return for more than a year. The company, engaged in the manufacture and supply of taxable goods, had stopped production and was in the process of winding up their business. Acting on the information, the DGGI raided three different locations of the firm and recovered incriminating documents. A preliminary scrutiny revealed that Rs 7.75 crore worth GST was not paid since June-19. Based on the admission, the company voluntarily made a payment of Rs 4.73 crore on the spot and agreed to pay the remaining amount shortly. In the other case, DGGI officials raided Gemini Engineers Fab limited in Surat for evading GST by way of collecting the amount from their customers and not depositing it with the government exchequer. The firm allegedly evaded GST to the tune of Rs 3.86 crore. While the owners paid Rs 1.89 crore on the spot, they agreed to clear their liability shortly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dggi-unearths-rs-11-crore-tax-evasion-by-surat-silvassa-firms/articleshow/77135585.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Allahabad||Vehicle mows down woman, minor daughter||Prayagraj: A speeding vehicle crushed two death a woman and her minor daughter and injured two others near Maharupur village, under the limits of Utrav police station, on Thursday morning. The deceased Sangeeta Devi (35) and her daughter Kajal (15) were residents of Maharupur village. Those injured, Sumit (8) and Anjana (15), are residents of same village and are undergoing treatment at Swaroop Rani Nehru Hospital. Anjana’s condition was stated to be critical. Utrav police said the accident occurred when Sangeeta and Kajal were going to the fields to attend nature’s call. They were run over by an unidentified vehicle, whose driver also hit two other minors crossing the road at the same time. Police said the mother-daughter duo died on the spot and police rushed the injured children to a nearby hospital, from where they were referred to Swaroop Rani Nehru Hospital. Police are yet to nab the accused driver. A case has been lodged in connection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/vehicle-mows-down-woman-minor-daughter/articleshow/77136004.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Business||Software co Icertis goes on hiring spree, will double headcount by December||Pune: While Covid-19 forced a lot companies to cut jobs, Pune-based unicorn startup Icertis has been on a hiring spree. Buoyed by encouraging demand from clients for its contract lifecycle management solutions, as clients rewrite the rules of business, Icertis has hired over 320 employees since March-end. The company has planned to hire another 200 employees, mostly engineers, even as it has declared that work-from-home will continue throughout 2020 or even beyond. “We have told our new hires that the work-from-home option can continue even beyond 2020 if they so wish...the same will also apply to our existing staff,” said Icertis chief HR officer Pranali Save. Save said the employees are also being introduced to new benefit components like reaching ergonomic chairs and tables to employee households, provision of high-speed internet and unlimited power-supply system. “Given the market conditions, this is a good time to pick good people. We are also planning for future business,” she added. In the initial days of the pandemic, there was a discussion to see if layoffs was important, but that was done away with. From there on, the company decided to increase focus on investing in employee training. “We are excited that we have been able to put in place various learning modules and virtual connect sessions that have allowed us to welcome and quickly transition talented individuals,” Save said. Icertis manages over 7.5 million contracts with a total contracted value of over $1 trillion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/software-co-icertis-goes-on-hiring-spree-will-double-headcount-by-december/articleshow/77136706.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
July 24, 2020||Patna||650 nursing staff go on strike at AIIMS-Patna, seek job security||PATNA: At least 650 non-permanent nursing staff at the All India Institute Of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) went on strike on Thursday, demanding hike in salary, job security, health insurance and leave benefits. This sudden step has added to the woes of the hospital which is already reeling under the pressure of Covid-19 cases. The AIIMS-P administration has requested the nursing staff, who were hired on contractual basis by a private firm, to resume work. The hospital’s nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said, “Some of their demands include job security, insurance cover, provision of experience certificates printed on AIIMS-P letterhead and free treatment to them and their families. We already have a separate ward for treatment of our staff and an insurance scheme has been provided by the Centre to all the health workers involved in fighting Covid-19.” Later some of the demands of the striking staff were accepted. AIIMS-P medical superintendent Dr C M Singh issued a notice and assured them that they would not be removed and get experience letters. Earlier, the private agencies that hired the nursing staff on contractual basis would give certificates to them. Dr Singh also stated that the contractual nursing staff would be given eight days off every month and required to work for five consecutive days every week. “The rest of the demands have also been deliberated upon, but they are not under the purview of the AIIMS-P administration. The present situation demands everyone’s sincere efforts, especially those of nurses. Hence, I urge you to resume work immediately,” Dr Singh said and added, “If some elements are found jeopardizing our efforts in battling the pandemic and endangering the lives of patients, the administration will be compelled to take action against them.” On Saturday, the sanitation staff at the AIIMS-P had gone on strike, but resumed work the next day. Action was taken against four of them as per the Disaster Management Act. “It has become a trend to blackmail the hospital administration amid this pandemic,” rued a doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/650-nursing-staff-go-on-strike-at-aiims-p-seek-job-security/articleshow/77134275.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 24, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Farmers hit as floods damage standing crops in 10 districts||PATNA: This monsoon has proved to be paradoxical for farmers in the state. Though timely onset of southwest monsoon initially brought cheers to the farmers, incessant rain over the last few days and resultant floods in at least 10 districts in north Bihar have led to crop damages and miseries for them. Chedi Lal Prasad, mukhiya of Chemra Labdaha panchayat in Piprasi block of West Champaran district, said more than 100 hectares of agricultural land with standing paddy were under floodwaters. “Sand and soil brought by the floodwaters of Gandak have also damaged the farmland. Farmers are in deep trouble as they had gone for early transplantation following timely onset of monsoon,” Chedi said. Paddy is the main crop of kharif season in Bihar and its sowing starts in early June with onset of monsoon. Transplantation of its saplings is feasible from beginning of July to mid-August. Knee-deep water is required in the agriculture field during transplantation. Abdus Sattar, assistant professor of agro meteorology at Dr Rajendra Prasad Central Agricultural University, Pusa, in Samastipur said most farmers went for early sowing of paddy, followed by early transplantation as well but the flooding has had an adverse impact on long-duration rice. “Standing paddy in low lying areas in the flood-affected districts has been damaged due to prolonged accumulation of water over the last few days. Maize crop, which is highly water sensitive, may also face stunted growth owing to frequent showers,” Sattar added. He said floods have also caused large scale damage to green vegetables in the agriculture fields. “Many farmers keep calling us to know when the rainfall will stop so that their crops can be saved,” Sattar said. Anil Kumar Jha, an expert in agriculture department, said, “With early rainfall, most farmers completed paddy transplantation by first fortnight of July. However, floods in north Bihar led to washing away of the standing crops due to high current of river water. Prolonged submergence of the crops has led to their stunted growth,” Anil said, adding maize has suffered the maximum loss. Not all farmers are distressed by the rainfall though. Sudhanshu Kumar, a progressive farmer from Nayanagar village in Samastipur district, said, “The situation is not that bad. Standing paddy can survive with accumulated water for up to 5-7 days. In fact, we have got sufficient water in many areas for allowing transplantation without irrigation sources after many years,” he said, adding farmers are expecting good yield this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/farmers-hit-as-floods-damage-standing-crops-in-10-districts/articleshow/77134531.cms||Piyush Tripathi
July 24, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Floods wreak havoc in Khagaria, Darbhanga||PATNA: Swollen rivers in north Bihar have kept the administration on alert and also caused countless miseries to tens of hundreds of villagers in 10 districts. In Khagaria, panic prevailed among people following seepage in Badla-Nagarpara embankment near Kaithi village under Chautham block on Thursday. DM Alok Ranjan Ghosh along with a team of engineers of flood control divisions rushed to the spot to assess the situation. The situation was, however, under control as the district administration started flood-fighting work at vulnerable points on a war footing. Meanwhile, electric supply to several villages was snapped as floodwaters of Bagmati river entered a number of riverine villages in Khagaria district. In Darbhanga, eight blocks as well as low-lying areas of the town are affected by flooding of rivers. Marooned people of Kusheshwar Asthan, Kiratpur, Gaurabauram, Tardih, Ghanshyampur and Hayaghat blocks have taken shelter on NH-57, state highway, embankments and other higher places. District administration is running a number of community kitchens for feeding the flooded and displaced people. In Keoti block, six panchayats have been surrounded with water and cooked food is being distributed through rowing of boats. Gehua river flowing between eastern and western embankments of Kamla Balan has inundated eight panchayats of Ghanshyampur block. DM Thyagrajan SM and other officials visited the affected areas and supervised relief operations. In Saran district, ADM Bharat Bhushan inspected Saran embankment on river Gandak at Panapur and other places and directed residents of Prithvipur, Salempur and Basahiya to shift to safer places. ADM Bharat Bhushan, who is in charge of the district disaster management, said polythene sheets have been provided at Maker, Panapur, Taraiya, Parsa and Sonepur and further sheets would be made available on demand by the respective BDOs. In West Champaran, road communications from Lauria to Ramnagar and Narkatiaganj were restored after four days on Thursday. The district administration has put barricade over the road at Bengali Chowk and deployed home guard jawans, so that no one could cross the road over flooded water. In Sitamarhi, Sursand, Parihar, Bathanaha, Dumra, Bajpatti, Belsand, Runnisaidpur, Suppi, Choraut and Bokhara blocks are partially affected by flood. Sitamarhi-Sursand, Sitamarhi-Parihar, Sitamarhi-Sheohar, Riga-Suppi and Sitamarhi-Bajpatti roads have been overtopped by floodwaters. The Lakhandei river water has been flowing on Kanhauli-Khap Khopraha and Lagma-Bhasepur roads, causing a lot of hardships to villagers and commuters. (With inputs from NP Thakur in Khagaria, B K Jha in Darbhanga, H K Verma in Saran, Tirthraj Kushwaha in Bagaha & S K Singh in Sitamarhi)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/floods-wreak-havoc-in-khagaria-darbhanga/articleshow/77134483.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Patna||A Mahadalit should be next CM: Jitan Ram Manjhi||PATNA: Former chief minister and HAM(S) national president Jitan Ram Manjhi on Thursday gave a clarion call to party workers and functionaries to work hard for the upcoming state assembly election so that someone from the Mahadalit community can again become the chief minister of Bihar. Manjhi was addressing his maiden virtual rally of office bearers and party workers in the run up to the state assembly polls due in October-November this year. His utterances assumed significance in the wake of LJP national president Chirag Paswan’s supporters describing him as a potential CM candidate. Though Chirag has not made any official comment on the issue, his supporters have raised it time and again. “Why not? After all, he is a young and dynamic leader with a clean image. There are no corruption charges nor criminal case pending against him. Moreover, he is more concerned about the uplift of the poor and the downtrodden, who have remained a neglected lot,” said the HAM(S) chief. Alleging that leaders cutting across party lines have always used the members of Mahadalit community as their vote bank and done precious little for their amelioration, Manjhi said, “Jab tak koi Mahadalit samaj ka CM nahi hoga, Mahadalit ka kalyan nahi ho sakta hai (The uplifting of Mahadalits is not possible until the CM is selected from this community).” Manjhi’s utterances gave a severe jolt to the RJD, which has already projected Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as the CM face of Mahagathbandhan in the upcoming assembly polls. HAM(S) is an ally of the Mahagathbandhan comprising the RJD, the Congress, RLSP and the VIP. It may be mentioned here that Manjhi has been repeatedly demanding setting up a coordination committee to decide the CM face and also sharing of the seats among the major constituents of the Grand Alliance (GA). The RJD is, however, not paying any heed to HAM(S) demand. “We have made it clear that Tejashwi is the CM face of GA,” RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari said. Manjhi, on the other hand, said that he didn’t want to cause any damage to the Mahagathbandhan. “The Congress leadership has asked us to maintain restraint. We hope that other partners of the alliance will think over it and take a wise decision accordingly,” he added. The former CM also appealed to the poor and the migrant workers to get their names enrolled in the voters’ list so that they can exercise their right to franchise. He also didn’t favour election campaigning through video conferencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/a-mahadalit-should-be-next-cm-manjhi/articleshow/77135159.cms||Ramashankar
July 24, 2020||Patna||Patliputra Junction set to get a facelift||PATNA: The railways has started construction of two additional platforms at the Patliputra Junction in strict adherence to the social distancing norms prescribed by the ministry of home affairs and Railway Board in view of Covid-19 pandemic. There are two platforms at Patliputra Junction and construction of two additional platforms was necessitated following increase in number of passenger trains. East Central Railway (ECR) chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said the footfall of passengers at Patliputra Junction has increased from 10,000 to 50,000 per day. “The new platforms will be of 12-metre width to accommodate 24 coaches of mail and express trains. A ‘boot laundry’ will also come up to wash linens. A spacious waiting hall will also be constructed at the junction while a separate RPF barrack is being built for the stay of RPF personnel,” the CPRO said, adding one more foot overbridge is being constructed at the junction to cope with the rush of passengers. At least 10 pairs of passenger trains either pass through or originate from Patliputra Junction daily. “The idea is to increase the junction’s operational capacity to 40 pairs of passenger trains. The railways will spend over Rs 19 crore to improve infrastructure at the junction. Escalators will also be made functional at the junction soon,” the CPRO added. He said at least 10 food stalls would be set up at various platforms of Patliputra Junction, including a food plaza by the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation. “There are plans to set up Sudha Dairy and Amul stalls at the junction. A new stabling yard is being built at the junction for empty rakes of passenger trains, he said. The beautification of Patliputra Junction with the state’s heritage paintings had earned applause from the Railway Board recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patliputra-junction-set-to-get-a-facelift/articleshow/77135134.cms||Kumod Verma
July 24, 2020||Patna||Hours after posting SOS on social media, Bettiah Covid patient dies||BETTIAH: A 45-year-old Covid-19 positive patient, who had gone live on a social media platform on Tuesday with cries of ‘please save me,’ succumbed in the isolation ward of the Government Medical College at Bettiah on Thursday. “He had serious comorbidity symptoms,” medics at the hospital said. Sanjay Jaiswal, BJP state chief and Paschim Champaran MP, also seconded the opinion of the medics. Jaiswal, who himself had recently tested positive along with several family members and also many party colleagues, rushed to the Covid ward after hearing the news of the patient’s demise. “The patient’s death is unfortunate. He had uncontrolled diabetes and his total WBC count was alarming,” Jaiswal told this newspaper. Principal of a small private school and sole bread earner of the family, the man leaves behind him his wife and two minor children, including a 7-year-old daughter with kidney ailment requiring regular treatment at PGI, Lucknow. Between gasps, the deceased appeared desperate during his live appeal on social media. “I am speaking from Bettiah Covid hospital. I am being treated here since yesterday. But no one comes to see me properly. No one comes to give me injection. Neither to nebulise me....koi vyavastha nahin hai ...Government says there is every arrangement but there is none here. Dogs roam around at night. I’ll do another live (video) and show the dogs (inside).There is no cleanliness either. The doctors are negligent...Please share this video and save my life,” he was heard saying in the video which now remains like his dying declaration. This live video triggered fear and anger, as it followed similar videos that had gone viral earlier from the same ward from other aggrieved patients. The Vishwa Hindu Parishad convened a meeting and decided to call on the DM and local MP with appeals to improve the hospital conditions. Supported by Bajrang Dal district convener Sonu Kumar, VHP district secretary Raman Gupta issued an appeal to different social organisations and political parties to step forward in this fight against Covid for the sake of humanity. The patient’s nephew said when he met his uncle after his live video on Tuesday night, his condition was deteriorating. “My appeals to put him on ventilator went unanswered,” he said, adding around 3am on Wednesday, his oxygen cylinder almost dried up. “I cried to get the oxygen (replenished), but there was no oxygen,” the bereaved kin said. However, Jaiswal, also a physician, found nothing amiss during his inspection of the Covid facilities at the medical college. “The deceased, with serious comorbidities, was being administered three frontline antibiotics. There is no shortage of oxygen at the hospital,” he said. The hospital authorities said in a statement that the patient was admitted in isolation ward on July 20 with breathing problem. “Investigations revealed that he had diabetes from before...but had been irregular in taking medicine for past few days. Tests showed he was infected with Covid and other ailments too as seen from his blood report. His blood sugar was uncontrolled. He was being administered all appropriate medicines and injections to protect him from the infection and he was also being given oxygen. Insulin injection was prescribed to control his diabetes but he refused saying that he controls it by taking blood sugar tablets. Despite all efforts and appropriate treatment , he could not be saved. There was never any shortage of oxygen during his treatment and he was administered oxygen as per need,” the hospital said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hours-after-posting-sos-on-social-media-bettiah-covid-patient-dies/articleshow/77134555.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
July 24, 2020||Kolkata||Work on for shorter train link between Kolkata and Bankura||KOLKATA: The ongoing electrification of the Bankura-Masagram stretch will ensure a new and faster route between Kolkata and Bankura, both a tourism hub and business centre in south Bengal. South Eastern Railway (SER) recently completed electrification of the 41km-long Bankura-Sonamukhi section and work is underway on the remaining 77km from Sonamukhi to Masagram. Local trains already ply from Howrah to Masagram, which is 72km away. “At present, people traveling to Bankura from Kolkata have to take a roundabout route through Kharagpur and Midnapore. The distance is nearly 230km and the journey by an express train takes nearly four hours. The distance from Howrah to Bankura via Masagram will be only 190km and an express train should take about three hours to complete the journey. This will also be an important connection between the Eastern Railway (ER) and SER networks,” an official said. Electric trains between the two stations are expected to start running soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/work-on-for-shorter-train-link-between-kolkata-bankura/articleshow/77135761.cms||Jayanta Gupta
July 24, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Second-year dental student kills self in hostel||KOLKATA: A second-year postgraduate MDS student of Dr R Ahmed Dental College allegedly committed suicide inside her hostel room on Thursday. Cops broke into Manasi Mondal’s hostel room to find her hanging from the ceiling by a scarf. The cops said the 26-year-old resident of Purulia was married. Officers found a suicide note, but are yet to find the exact cause of death. “She was apparently upset over a number of issues — from her kin trying to control her life to how society perceived her. But she has not held anyone responsible for her death. The police have ordered inquest proceedings in this regard,” an officer said. According to police, Mondal joined the college more than a year ago and had two roommates. While one went home after admission, the other, from Murshidabad, was on duty when the incident occurred. According to the police, Mondal sent a message on a WhatsApp group at 9.20am to her parents saying she was ill. She was last spotted in the hostel corridor around 9.30am. “She told her friends she was unwell. They called her in the afternoon and when she didn’t answer, they came back to the hostel and knocked on her door. When there was still no answer, the hostel superintendent alerted cops. “We will speak to her family to check if she was under any stress. We have seized her cellphone ,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2nd-year-dental-student-kills-self-in-hostel/articleshow/77135781.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Business||RIL among world’s 50 most valued companies||MUMBAI: On Thursday, as the stock price of Reliance Industries, the most valued company in India, recorded its all-time high of Rs 2,079, the market cap of the company also crossed the Rs 13-lakh-crore mark for the first time. In the process, RIL also became the first Indian company to enter the global top 50 most-valued companies’ club. At the close of trading, with a market capitalisation of about $185 billion, the energy-to-telecom major was valued ahead of global giants like Oracle ($177 billion), Abott Laboratories ($179 billion) and Unilever ($155 billion).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ril-among-worlds-50-most-valued-cos/articleshow/77136658.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Surat||10 Ahmedabad doctors take their non-stop service to Surat||AHMEDABAD: When the going gets tough, the tough get going. Ten doctors of Ahmedabad are the exemplars of this maxim as they have been treating Covid-19 patients non-stop since March 15. And when the virus stuck its spikes into Surat, the doctors volunteered to take their battle-hardened experience to the new war zone. “When the Covid outbreak became severe in Surat, our colleagues there started seeking our help online to manage the flood of critically ill patients,” said Dr Manjit Nayak, assistant professor at Gujarat Cancer Society (GCS) Medical College and alumnus of BJ Medical College. “We had been at the frontline developing and implementing strategies so we decided to help.” The group of 10 doctors from Ahmedabad’s Civil Hospital, GCS, and SMS Hospital embarked last week on ‘Mission Surat’. They sought a deputation at the Covid facility at Surat Civil Hospital, treating patients and training their colleagues. Apart from Dr Nayak, the team includes Dr Pinkesh Rathwa, president of Junior Doctors' Association, Civil Hospital; Dr Hiren Pateliya, Dr Mansang Dodiya, Dr Pankaj Nadoda, Dr Rahul Gameti, Dr Yogesh Mori, Dr Oman Prajapati, Dr Diwakar Sharma, and Dr Viraj Modi. Dr Neeranjan Ajuwadiya is the lone woman in the team. The doctors said they will complete 141 days of non-stop Covid duty considering their deputation in Surat from July 13-26. After that, they will resume duty at Civil Hospital in Ahmedabad. Dr Viraj Modi of Gujarat Cancer Research Institute had tested Covid positive in Ahmedabad while working in the corona ward. Dr Modi said the pandemic is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to serve and gather historic learnings. Dr Pinkesh Rathwa said that the team was involved in establishing treatment protocols and the best practices in Ahmedabad which are being emulated in Surat. The doctors said that they started with the basics of ensuring that all staff including doctors and paramedical personnel take personal safety seriously. “We know that PPE kits can exhaust the wearers,” said Dr Nayak. “We helped resident doctors pick PPE kits in which they can work with relative ease.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/10-abad-docs-take-their-non-stop-service-to-surat/articleshow/77137869.cms||Bharat Yagnik
July 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||10 Ahmedabad doctors take their non-stop service to Surat||AHMEDABAD: When the going gets tough, the tough get going. Ten doctors of Ahmedabad are the exemplars of this maxim as they have been treating Covid-19 patients non-stop since March 15. And when the virus stuck its spikes into Surat, the doctors volunteered to take their battle-hardened experience to the new war zone. “When the Covid outbreak became severe in Surat, our colleagues there started seeking our help online to manage the flood of critically ill patients,” said Dr Manjit Nayak, assistant professor at Gujarat Cancer Society (GCS) Medical College and alumnus of BJ Medical College. “We had been at the frontline developing and implementing strategies so we decided to help.” The group of 10 doctors from Ahmedabad’s Civil Hospital, GCS, and SMS Hospital embarked last week on ‘Mission Surat’. They sought a deputation at the Covid facility at Surat Civil Hospital, treating patients and training their colleagues. Apart from Dr Nayak, the team includes Dr Pinkesh Rathwa, president of Junior Doctors' Association, Civil Hospital; Dr Hiren Pateliya, Dr Mansang Dodiya, Dr Pankaj Nadoda, Dr Rahul Gameti, Dr Yogesh Mori, Dr Oman Prajapati, Dr Diwakar Sharma, and Dr Viraj Modi. Dr Neeranjan Ajuwadiya is the lone woman in the team. The doctors said they will complete 141 days of non-stop Covid duty considering their deputation in Surat from July 13-26. After that, they will resume duty at Civil Hospital in Ahmedabad. Dr Viraj Modi of Gujarat Cancer Research Institute had tested Covid positive in Ahmedabad while working in the corona ward. Dr Modi said the pandemic is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to serve and gather historic learnings. Dr Pinkesh Rathwa said that the team was involved in establishing treatment protocols and the best practices in Ahmedabad which are being emulated in Surat. The doctors said that they started with the basics of ensuring that all staff including doctors and paramedical personnel take personal safety seriously. “We know that PPE kits can exhaust the wearers,” said Dr Nayak. “We helped resident doctors pick PPE kits in which they can work with relative ease.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/10-abad-docs-take-their-non-stop-service-to-surat/articleshow/77137669.cms||Bharat Yagnik
July 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Salon business takes a Covid-19 haircut in Ahmedabad, several shut shop||AHMEDABAD: Ashwin Patel, who ran a salon on Science City Road for the past six years, closed it down recently because customers have shrunk alarmingly, while operating costs have risen and there has been no change in rent. “We had 3,500 clients who regularly availed of our beauty and grooming services. After the lockdown, footfalls fell drastically and revenue has not been enough to even meet costs. I cannot run the business by making losses and decided to shut shop,” said Patel. Even after salons and barber shops opened following the lockdown, footfalls have fallen dramatically, leaving owners to fight high operating costs such as rent, electricity bills, staff salaries and others. Consequently, many have been forced to shut. In fact, it is common place to spot salons with shutters locked, many even carrying for sale/rent advertisements. Bhupendra Panara, president of Ahmedabad Barbershop Owners’ Association, said, “Of around 12,000 salons and barbershops in the city, at least 200 have either not opened after the lockdown or closed soon after opening because they can’t bear the costs.” Harshad Panara, who runs a salon near Judges Bungalow Crossroads, reduced the space in his salon. “We renovated the salon and vacated nearly half the space, so our operating costs can be reduced. Barely anyone is opting for skin and beauty treatments and are sticking to basic grooming services. Our revenues have taken a hit and it was only wise to reduce overheads,” he said. ‘Footfalls down to 6-7 clients a day from 25’Most of our clients are men who come for haircuts and shaves. Women who come in stick to basic grooming services and hair colours. Overall, footfalls have fallen considerably. Against 25 customers a day pre-Covid, we barely get six or seven now,” said the manager of a salon in the city, on condition of anonymity. Salon owners are going the extra mile on social distancing and cleanliness fronts. “We use disposable tools and products as far as possible for all our services. Wherever disposables are not possible, the products are sanitised before and after each use. Thankfully, our regular clients have continued to come,” said Aanall Christian, director of Bridal Studio.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/salon-biz-takes-a-covid-haircut-in-ahmedabad-several-shut-shop/articleshow/77137671.cms||Niyati Parikh
July 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Former Akali MLA Talwandi joins Dhindsa group||Chandigarh: Former MLA Ranjit Singh Talwandi, who is son of former president of SAD Jagdev Singh Talwandi, joined Rajya Sabha member Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa’s group in Mohali on Thursday. On July 7, Dhindsa had claimed to have been unanimously elected as SAD president by ousting sitting president Sukhbir Badal. Ranjit was SAD MLA from Raikot assembly constituency from 2002 to 2007. He lost the 2007 assembly election from Raikot and then two assembly elections from Khanna in 2012 and 2017. His father Talwandi had also served as SGPC president and remained SAD president twice. He was known as the Loh Purush (iron man) of Akali politics. The SGPC had installed his portrait at the central Sikh museum of the Golden Temple in March this year, after the expelled SAD leader, Dhindsa, claimed at a Sangrur rally in February that Talwandi’s family was in touch with him. Ranjit’s sister, Harjit Kaur was present during the function in Ludhiana on July 7, when Dhindsa had claimed to have been elected as the SAD president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/former-akali-mla-talwandi-joins-dhindsa-group/articleshow/77137106.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Jalandhar MP seeks probe into 1986 killing of 4 Sikh youths||Jalandhar: Jalandhar MP Santokh Singh Chaudhary has demanded an investigation into the killing of four Sikh youths in a police firing at Nakodar in February 1986, when they wanted to march towards a gurdwara where birs of Guru Granth Sahib were burnt. In a letter written to Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, Chaudhary has mentioned that on the day of his filing of nomination papers for 2019 parliamentary election, when he had requested the CM to launch a probe into the case, the latter had promised to reopen and investigate it. “When Congress party formed the government in the state in 2017, one of the first promises was a proper investigation and delivery of justice in Bargari sacrilege case and related incidents, and those cases are being probed meticulously,” he wrote, adding that similar action should also be taken incident in the 35-year-old Nakodar incident. Ravinder Singh Littran, Baldhir Singh Ramgarh, Jhilman Singh Gorsian and Harminder Singh were killed without provocation on February 4, 1986 by the police, but the victims and their families never got justice, as the then state government hushed up the cases of sacrilege and police firing, he said. “Though Justice Gurnam Singh Commission’s report was tabled in Punjab legislative assembly in 2001, no action was taken by the government at that time.” “I request you to fulfill the promise made to the people and order an investigation into Nakodar killings case at the earliest. The families are waiting for justice with crossed fingers even after almost 35 years. It is time that justice is done to them and their suffering put to an end,” reads the letter. Notably, the issue was used by Congress in a big way in Jalandhar parliamentary constituency during 2019 polls. Earlier, it was also raised in the Punjab assembly by MLAs H S Phoolka and Kanwar Sandhu and they had urged the CM to order an investigation into the case. For the last around two years, families of these youths have been making desperate attempts to get the case opened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jalandhar-mp-seeks-probe-into-1986-killing-of-4-sikh-youths/articleshow/77137110.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Goa||Next hearing of mining case in SC on Aug 18||Panaji: The Supreme Court on Thursday adjourned the hearing of the Goa mining case to August 18. The case is crucial for the resumption of mining activities in the state after two companies approached the apex court for extension of mining leases till 2037. During the hearing in the Supreme Court on Thursday, Goa government said that resumption of mining activities is important for the state and early dates should be given for the hearing, advocate general Devidas Pangam told TOI. Pangam said that in August, the court will decide on whether to hear arguments in the mining case in open court or through video conference. He said that the state government’s review petition against the Supreme Court’s February 2018 order, which brought mining activities to standstill, may be taken up along with the mining companies’ petitions. The mining companies and dependants, including the government, are hoping for commencement of iron ore extraction in the state to boost the economy. The mining companies had filed a special leave petition (SLP) after the high court had dismissed their petitions challenging the Goa, Daman and Diu (Abolition and Declaration of Mining Leases) Act, 1987. During the Portuguese era, the appellants were granted mining concessions, which were converted into mining leases under the abolition act. The SLP stated that the abolition act should be made applicable from 1987 instead 1961. The state government before apex court had said that the mining companies had made representation to the mines department contending that under the amendment to Section 8 A of the Mines and Minerals Development Act, they are entitled to extend their mining leases up to 2037, but that it would abide by the decision of the court. State government had said that their mining concessions which were granted by the erstwhile Portuguese regime were converted into mining leases under the MMDR Act with effect from 1987 and consequently 50 years mining leases as contemplated under Section 8 A would be extended up to 2037. The SLP stated that the abolition act should be made applicable from 1987 instead 1961.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/next-hearing-of-mining-case-in-sc-on-aug-18/articleshow/77137111.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Sidhu writes to Amarinder for developing his constituency||Amritsar: Former cabinet minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, who is MLA from Amritsar (East), has expressed displeasure at the ‘serious lapses’ in the development work in his constituency. In a letter to Amarinder on July 16, which surfaced on public domain on Thursday, Sidhu wrote, “It is unfortunate but true that nothing has moved in my constituency since I resigned. Patiently waiting for over an year for these works to start, to facilitate Amritsar (East), repeatedly inquiring from deputy commissioner and various departments but these works exists only in papers.” He alleged that earlier Amritsar Improvement Trust had sanctioned works and allotted Rs 13 crore for development works in Amritsar East, but now all the works had been completely stalled or had progressed without any information to him from any department. He said five bridges — two in Amritsar (East) — which Amarinder had inaugurated in October 2018 for Rs 137 crore were progressing at snail’s pace. “Even after I had personally put every endeavour to take approvals from union railway ministry (which otherwise takes years), with tenders done and permissions taken and funds submitted , yet nothing has fructified so far,” Sidhu stated in the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sidhu-writes-to-amarinder-for-developing-his-constituency/articleshow/77137112.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Goa||Goa board’s Class X results on July 28||Panaji: Results of Class X exam of the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (GBSHSE) will be declared on July 28 at 4.30pm, board chairman Ramkrishna Samant said. Altogether, 19,676 students appeared for the exam. Last year, 92.5% had cleared the Class X state board exam. The Class X public exams were held this year from May 21 to June 6, during the period of the lockdown, and required a revision of the exam schedule by the board due to the pandemic. Extra precautions were taken while correcting papers which meant that over a month went into preparing results. Class X results are normally declared by the last week of May, but the Covid-19 pandemic and the related lockdown delayed the entire examination and declaring of results in 2020. Similarly, the new academic year for 2020-21 is not expected to begin before September 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-boards-class-x-results-on-july-28/articleshow/77137114.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Allahabad||Police empowered to attach ‘suspicious’ property: Allahabad HC||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has held that a police officer is empowered to seize a property which creates suspicion of commission of any offence. “It is not disputed that a ‘bank account’ is a property which is capable of seizure. The caveat attached to such a seizure is that it shall be reported by the police officer forthwith to the competent magistrate,” the court added. Disposing of a writ petition filed by Independent TV Limited, a division bench comprising Justice Pankaj Naqvi and Justice Deepak Verma directed that in the event the petitioner stakes a claim to defreeze the account in question within three weeks, the magistrate shall decide the same after hearing the parties concerned in accordance with law as expeditiously as possible. The petitioner had sought direction against senior superintendent of police, Gautam Budh Nagar and Enforcement Directorate, New Delhi, to defreeze its (petitioner’s) current account in Punjab National Bank, Noida forthwith. However, additional government advocate (first) Neeraj Kanta Verma, who represented the state government, opposed the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/police-empowered-to-attach-suspicious-property-says-hc/articleshow/77136036.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
July 24, 2020||Kochi||Focus shifts to private hosps: Officials chart out plans to contain spread||KOCHI: The district administration has decided to focus more on private hospitals for containing the spread of the pandemic. In a key decision, the district disaster management authority (DDMA) has asked all private hospitals to immediately trace the contact history of patients after they are tested positive and convey it to district health department at the earliest. In a standard operating procedure (SOP) issued to all private hospitals by the DDMA headed by collector S Suhas, authorities have instructed all private hospital managements to ensure proper quarantine for a person once he or she is tested positive. There should be dedicated facilities for transportation of patients to Covid first line treatment centres or Covid hospitals. Hospital authorities should arrange facilities to ensure that patients/suspects don’t mingle with non-Covid patients. “We are putting in place a system for preventing the spread of cases through private hospitals. In government hospitals, we are already taking a lot of preventive measures,” said Dr N K Kuttappan, district medical officer, Ernakulam.  “There should be a nodal officer for Covid-19 cases in each hospital. The nodal officer should get in touch with the health department and give accurate data and information on cases,” Kuttappan said. There should be a triage, where the general health condition of a person is screened at the main entrance of the hospital. Those having even mild symptoms, travel history or history of contact with a Covid-19 positive case should be sent through a separate track called ‘respiratory track’. There should be another track for others titled ‘routine track’. Patients coming through respiratory track should be subjected to further investigations and if suspected to be infected, he/she should be taken to a special waiting area. All services to such patients, including consultation and check-ups, should be done without delay to ensure that their stay at the hospital is minimal. There should also be facilities to ensure that the staff deployed for Covid-19 patient care doesn’t mingle with staff who attend non-Covid patients. The staff should be screened for Covid symptoms on arrival at the hospital every day. Even if there are even mild symptoms, he or she should not be allowed to work. Proper social distancing, sanitization and wearing of masks should be practised by patients, bystanders and staff. All private hospitals should promote teleconsultation facilities to minimise the inflow of patients to the outpatient department. They should also increase the duration of dispensing medicines. If a person, for example, is suffering from diabetes but is well-controlled, he/she could be given medicines for two months instead of one. This will minimise their visits. Of late, the number of Covid-19 cases reported from private hospitals in the district has been going up. More healthcare workers contracted the disease from hospitals. Some hospitals had to be closed after their staffers were tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/focus-shifts-to-pvt-hosps-officials-chart-out-plans-to-contain-spread/articleshow/77135026.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
July 24, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Now, plan funds to be used for setting up Covid centres||KOCHI: Local self-government (LSG) department has issued an order authorizing all local bodies in the state to prepare projects for setting up Covid preventive and treatment facilities using plan funds. The amount thus used from the fund will be reimbursed to the local bodies from the state disaster management authority’s fund. This is expected to speed up setting up Covid preventive and treatment facilities, including Covid first-line treatment centres (CFLTCs). Each local body should undertake projects for enhancing facilities in hospitals like community health centres, public health centres, taluk hospitals, etc which come under it. Procurement of drugs and equipment required for the hospitals should be done by the local body. The local bodies should arrange furniture, pay temporary employees deployed for manning CFLTCs, cleaning of the facility, etc. The civic body should also use the funds for setting institutional quarantine facilities in its limits as per the requirement. Cleaning and sanitization of public places should also be taken care of by the local bodies. Setting up and maintenance of community kitchens in its limits will be the responsibility of local bodies and they can use the plan fund for the purpose. There should be measures to arrange more break the chain facilities in different parts of local bodies. All other Covid preventive measures should also be done by the local bodies as per the directives issued by the government. Secretaries of local bodies should ensure that the projects and works for preventing the spread of Covid-19 alone are being implemented using the plan fund as per the special directive of the government. Civic bodies needn’t secure clearance from the district planning committees for implementing the projects designed for Covid-19 preventive activities. The projects can be labelled as special projects and should be implemented on a war footing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/now-plan-funds-to-be-used-for-setting-up-covid-centres/articleshow/77135023.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
July 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Arrest warrants extended as SIT fails to arrest 3 key dera men||Bathinda: In view of the failure of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) to arrest three members of the Dera Sacha Sauda in connection with the theft of bir of Guru Granth Sahib, a Faridkot court on Thursday extended the arrest warrants up to August 3. Harsh Dhuri, Sandeep Bareta and Pardeep Kaler — national committee members of the dera — are wanted in connection with the bir theft. The court had on July 8 issued the arrest warrants against the three returnable by July 23. Naming the trio, along with dera head Gurmeet Ram Rahim, as the main accused in the case, the SIT had filed challan against 11 persons on July 6. As per the SIT challan, they are the key men behind the sacrilege cases, as they were the conduits between the dera and the followers and were giving instructions to the followers to carry out the acts of sacrilege. The SIT is learnt to have conducted searches in Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan to trace them. The SIT could file a prayer to start proceedings to declare them proclaimed offenders (POs) if they are not arrested in the near future, the police said. SIT head DIG Ranbir Singh Khatra said, “The court was informed on Thursday that the three have not been arrested. The court extended the arrest warrants till August 3 and the proceedings to get them declared POs may be started following due legal procedure.” The SIT is probing three cases of theft of bir, putting up derogatory posters and scattering of the torn pages of bir at Bargari on October 12, 2015, while the CBI has challenged the SIT investigations in the special CBI court at Mohali. The matter will come up for hearing in the special court on July 29. Meanwhile, then Kotkapura SHO Gurdeep Singh Pandher was on Thursday presented in the court of duty magistrate Suresh Kumar on expiry of two-day police remand in Behbal Kalan firing case. The court sent him to judicial custody till August 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/arrest-warrants-extended-as-sit-fails-to-arrest-3-key-dera-men/articleshow/77137113.cms||Neel Kamal
July 24, 2020||Allahabad||AU hostel eviction notice triggers yet another protest||PRAYAGRAJ: A group of student leaders from Allahabad University (AU) got into an argument with the varsity’s officials and staged a protest at GN Jha hostel on Thursday, after the latter put up a notice asking inmates to vacate their rooms immediately. Around 12.30pm on Thursday, AU chief proctor RK Upadhyay aand dean of students welfare KP Singh arrived at GN Jha hostel with heavy police force. The two officials put up a notice which asked all inmates to immediately vacate their hostel rooms and deposit the keys at the hostel office. As the news spread, a large number of student leaders arrived at the hostel within 30 minutes. The student leaders started arguing with AU officials and sat down on a dharna. They were joined by a large numbers of inmates from GN Jha Hostel, SSL Hostel and SRK Hostel. “It is ironical that despite the increase in Covid-19 cases, both in the state and the city, the AU administration is asking inmates to vacate rooms. The dictatorial attitude of the authorities is forcing us to defy lockdown guidelines. Come what may, we will not give in to the pressure,” said former AUSU vice-president Akhilesh Yadav. He said that AU should get all inmates tested for novel coronavirus, let them quarantine themselves for 14 days and then arrange for private vehicles to send them back home. “On one hand AU is talking about conducting exams for final year and semester students, and on the other hand it asking them to vacate their hostel rooms and return home,” added Yadav. AU’s public relations officer Shailendra Mishra said, “AU had announced earlier that inmates should vacate their hostel rooms. The varsity was trying to get the rooms of GN Jha Hostel vacated, but we couldn’t do so because of the opposition from student leaders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-hostel-eviction-notice-triggers-yet-another-protest/articleshow/77136079.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Kochi||Govt to discuss lockdown proposal with opposition||Thiruvananthapuram: The LDF government would discuss with the opposition a proposal for another round of complete lockdown in the state, mooted by a section of experts after the number of Covid-19 cases recorded on one day crossed 1,000 on Wednesday. The state cabinet that met here on Thursday considered the proposal but didn’t take a decision and it is learned that chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan would take it up for discussion in the all-party meeting scheduled for Friday and listen to the views of opposition UDF and BJP. On Wednesday, the CM said that the proposal and dissenting voices were being considered by the government. In the cabinet meeting, health minister K K Shailaja said that the situation was alarming in the state and sought stricter measures to prevent the spreading. However, a few ministers cited the adverse impact a total shutdown would have on the state’s economy. During his news conference on Thursday, Vijayan did not rule out the possibility of a lockdown and said “the government will come to a decision only after discussing with all. But there has to be strict restriction going with the pace of the spread of the virus. Already the health experts have aired their views on this.” The idea of another round of lockdown hasn’t gone down well with experts and industrial leaders, who believe that total shutdown is not a solution for checking the virus spread. “In Thiruvananthapuram, we had 200 cases on July 5 and now we have 2,000. The city has been under triple lockdown for the past two weeks. This itself proves that total shutdown is not a solution. Total shutdown means total collapse of the economy. We are losing Rs 1,000 crore a day through shutdown,’’ said former state police chief Jacob Punnoose. Only self-lockdown can prevent the surge of the disease effectively, he added. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) is also against lockdown. “Local spread has happened in the state and there is no point in shutting down the entire state due to this. What we suggest is lockdown in Covid clusters. The spread is happening locally or in communities The focus should be on preventing the spread from one area to other parts,” said IMA state president Dr Abraham Varghese. Tony Thomas, technology leader and former CIO of Nissan, said lockdown will not cure Covid-19. “If implemented effectively, at best it slows down the rate of pandemic spread to give time for building up healthcare capacity. Once the lockdown is lifted, the pandemic spread will continue unabated. In Kerala, with 99% of critical-care facilities remain unoccupied, a lockdown is unwarranted. The adverse impact of a draconian lockdown will destroy livelihood, emotional and physical well-being of the entire population and will cause many additional deaths, as is already evident,” he said. “Many studies have shown that Covid-19 spreads through direct contact and droplets, hence proper use of masks will control the pandemic spread effectively than lockdown or containment zones,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/govt-to-discuss-lockdown-proposal-with-opposition/articleshow/77135035.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Delhi||Dengue numbers low in Delhi, but picture’s hazy||NEW DELHI: According to weekly vector-borne disease reports, the capital has seen fewer cases of dengue, malaria and chikungunya in 2020 than in the last few years. However, one should not fall into false sense of security, warn senior public health department officials. Sentinel surveillance hospitals are not in a position to provide a clear picture due to the Covid-19 outbreak in the city, they say.  As many as 36 hospitals report dengue, malaria and chikungunya cases to city’s municipal corporations on a weekly basis. Officials, however, say that many of them have been turned into Covid facilities and data collection has been impacted. During the lockdown, the civic bodies had even stopped getting the weekly report from the anti-malaria department. While it has resumed now, many hospitals are still not reporting the vector-borne disease count, claims an official. According to the latest weekly report, Delhi has so far seen 40 malaria cases, while the malaria case count till the same point of time was almost double at 75 cases in 2019 and 2018. The 36 sentinel hospitals include all major government hospitals and some private hospitals. The list includes hospitals like LNJP, Hindu Rao, AIIMS, RML, Safdarjung, Babu Jagjivan Ram among others. A senior public health official said that since major hospitals are treating Covid patients, people may be preferring to get treatment at their local clinics. “These are initial days and several weeks of monsoon are still remaining. There may be a major crisis if the clear data does not arrive. Capturing more case data helps in localised planning of fumigations and anti-mosquito drives. The number of door-to-door visits by domestic breeding checkers has already seen a drastic fall due to Covid,” the official added. Explaining the process of surveillance, the official said that vector-borne disease cases from sentinel hospitals are reported to both the management information centre at Connaught Place and Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme officials. “The information is segregated and shared with all civic bodies for necessary action. After the receipt of the action taken report, a weekly report is prepared for distribution to all agencies,” the official added. SDMC is the nodal reporting agency in the capital. Last year, a proposal to make reporting of mosquito-borne diseases mandatory for clinics across the city by declaring it as “dangerous disease” was sent to the government, but it is still awaiting notification. “Such a notification will vastly improve the process of data collection and help authorities frame a better response plan,” said another health official. Watch Dengue numbers low in Delhi, but picture is hazy||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dengue-numbers-low-but-pictures-hazy/articleshow/77136673.cms||Paras Singh
July 24, 2020||Business||Taxable income may define ‘creamy layer’||NEW DELHI: Amid the ruckus over its controversial proposal to include “salary” in determining “creamy layer” for OBCs, the government may change the income ceiling to exclude backwards from quota from “gross income” to “net taxable income”. Sources said the National Commission for Backward Classes is veering towards dropping its veto to the radical change to the concept of “creamy layer” proposed by the ministry for social justice & empowerment. As a concession, it may seek that the income bar be changed. The shift will raise the income threshold for “creamy layer” — the category that is viewed as advanced and is not eligible for 27% job and education reservation. The ministry has proposed that salary be included to determine creamy layer. The ministry’s proposal is a big departure from the 1993 official memorandum of the DoPT which lays down that “creamy layer” be decided on the basis of “income from other sources” while leaving out “salary” and “agricultural income”. Alongside, the ministry has also proposed to increase the income ceiling from the present Rs 8 lakh to Rs 12 lakh a year. In February, the National Commission for Backward Classes, in its opinion to the ministry, had strongly opposed the twinproposal Cabinet note, saying it will hurt the interests of the backward communities. Since then, however, the backward panel is learned to have moved to a more accommodating position following the intervention of the BJP leadership. The NCBC members met home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday for a discussion. The view of the OBCs is split down the middle on the contentious issue. This month, chairman of the parliamentary committee on OBC welfare, Ganesh Singh, who is a senior BJP member, wrote to all party MPs from backward communities that they should oppose the Cabinet proposal. However, proponents of the move in BJP argue that factoring in salary in the wealth test will weed out better-off members among OBCs and pave the way for weaker communities which are not able to compete for quota benefits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/taxable-income-may-define-creamy-layer/articleshow/77137548.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
July 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Amrita to conduct online entrance test||Coimbatore: Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham will conduct remote proctored Amrita Engineering Entrance Examination (AEEE) for admission to B.Tech programmes.A statement from the varsity said that admission to B.Tech programmes offered at engineering campuses of Amrita University will be based on the marks secured in AEEE conducted as remote proctored model, so that the candidates can attend the exam sitting at home.The university will consider both AEEE 2020 and Plus II marks to prepare the rank list. Certain percentage of seats are reserved for those seeking admission on the basis of JEE Mains 2020 (January session) score. Those who have attended SAT in 2019 or 2020 also can apply. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/amrita-to-conduct-online-entrance-test/articleshow/77136682.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Trichy||Facemasks and social distancing ignored on share autos in Trichy||Trichy: Share autorickshaws in the city are flouting physical distancing norms while ferrying passengers, as autorickshaws are only permitted to carry only two passengers at a time. As there is slackness in enforcement by the authorities, there are even footboard travellers during peak hours. Share autos are preferred by many as it is a cheaper than regular autorickshaws. Although there is no separate relaxation for share autos, they returned to their stands after relaxations were introduced for authorickshaws in May. Share autos help commuters from KK Nagar and Karumandapam reach the Central bus terminus as the localities are not completely interconnected to other parts of the city with public transportation. With a minimum fare of Rs 10, share autos help locals from outskirts reach the core of the city in the absence of city buses. “Around 7pm on weekdays, crowded share autos leave from E Pudur bus stop. Few of them were seen removing their facemasks, mostly handkerchiefs, after boarding the vehicle,” said K Kumaran, a resident of Crawford said. Regular autorickshaws are permitted to carry only two passengers at a time, police said, adding that the same rule applies for share autos. In reality, at least a dozen people use the share autos at a time. Puthur junction and KK Nagar to Central bus terminus were the routes that see rampant violations. As people visiting Mahatma Gandhi Memorial government hospital, on EVR road near Puthur, where Covid-19 patients undergo treatment, use share autos, there is a possibility for the infection to spread among other passengers. A majority of those depending on share autos include domestic help to households and workers in shops selling essential commodities. “Enforcement is underway to prevent social distancing violations in autorickshaws. Surveillance will be enhanced to ensure share autos do not violate the norms,” said DCP (crime and traffic) R Vetharathinam, DCP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/facemasks-and-social-distancing-ignored-on-share-autos-in-trichy/articleshow/77137318.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 24, 2020||Hyderabad||To check local transmission, Telangana to ramp up Covid-19 tests||HYDERABAD: The state government on Thursday said it will ramp up testing as authorities battle extensive local transmission from affecting a larger population. Hinting at beginning of a community transmission, if more measures were not in place, government alerted people to be extremely careful over next four to six weeks, which was crucial to bring down numbers. “The coronavirus has entered into the community. It’s hard to smell where and how it comes from and there is no other way but to take precautions against this invisible virus,” said Dr G Srinivas Rao, director of public health. He, however, said at this point of time, it cannot be called a community spread. “We can call it community spread when the transmission is happening uniformly across the state or city. As of now, what we say, is that there is an extensive local spread of the virus happening in certain pockets. We are going to face a difficult situation in the next couple of weeks. The virus will touch everyone ultimately,” the official added. Telangana is now at the ninth position in the country in terms of overall caseload with 50,825 cases, but with Covid-19 numbers galloping in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, authorities have sounded the alarm bells. Residents have been urged to largely stay at home and take adequate precautions. Expecting a spike of cases in the coming days, especially in smaller cities and rural areas, the government has decided to change tack and do more testing in rural areas. “More and more tests will be done in rural areas, including every primary health centres. We are going to ramp up testing further. We will be targeting to touch 25,000 tests per day in the next few days,” added Dr Rao. Stressing on the need to follow the three basic principles to combat coronavirus, officials said wearing masks, following a six-foot physical distance, maintaining personal hygiene and regular washing of hands, could save lives. Rao said the latest surge in rural areas and districts can be attributed to movement between the GHMC area and districts. “It is carried from the city to rural area. We are now seeing a dip in cases in the GHMC areas but districts are a reason of concern,” he added, advising people not to ignore symptoms. The state health department is procuring 2 lakh more testing kits, in addition to the 2 lakh kits already available. Director of medical education (DME) Telangana, Dr K Ramesh Reddy, urged all sections of the people to support medical staff. At present, government hospitals have more than 8,000 isolation, oxygen and ventilator beds, while private hospitals have 4,200 beds, for a total of 15,000 beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/to-check-local-transmission-t-to-ramp-up-covid-19-tests/articleshow/77137319.cms||Amrita Didyala
July 24, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Mattancherry hospital to become Covid care centre||KOCHI: The Women and Children Hospital at Mattancherry will be converted into a Covid treatment centre on a war footing. People residing in the neighbourhoods of Mattancherry as well as those from Fort Kochi, Chellanam and Kumbalam will benefit from the move. Five persons from Fort Kochi, three persons from Mattancherry and one person from Palluruthy tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday. The words of various councillors from West Kochi regions stand as a testimonial to how fast Covid is spreading through contact in the region. Iraveli division councillor Shammena A R said: “Two people from this division was tested positive by late evening on Wednesday. They were shifted to hospital early on Thursday.” Meanwhile, Karipalam councillor Bindu Levin said: “A resident from Kalvathy division, who had shifted to a relative’s house at Karipalam, tested positive. The family has been sent to quarantine. As some relatives developed severe symptoms, their samples have been sent for testing.” Fort Kochi councillor Shiny Mathew said as positive cases are increasing there will be a need to provide more treatment facilities in West Kochi area. “The Kalvathy community hall will be converted into a first-line Covid treatment centre. If more cases get reported, several buildings, including schools, which have already been identified will be converted into Covid treatment centres. As of now we think that these facilities will be sufficient,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mattancherry-hosp-to-become-covid-care-centre/articleshow/77135054.cms||Greeshma Gopal Giri
July 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: 2,500 specialist teachers in dire straits||KOZHIKODE: Over 2,500 specialist teachers, who are appointed on yearly contract basis at the start of the academic year, were left with no means of livelihood following the delay in school reopening due to Covid-19. The specialist teachers –appointed in upper primary (UP) schools under Samagra Shiksha Kerala (SSK) for subjects such as art and physical education –have been imparting lessons in subjects like drawing, music, craft etc. The teachers, who were left without a salary since April, are staring at an uncertain future. As many as 2,514 specialist teachers were appointed in 838 UP schools on contract basis with a monthly salary of Rs 28,000 in May 2016 using Centre’s Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) funds. But, SSA drastically cut the funds in 2018, following which their salaries were reduced to Rs 14000 after state government chipped in with a contribution of Rs 7,000/teacher. “During the past four year, we were very much part of the government’s initiative to protect and strengthen the general education sector. But in these trying times, we have been left with no means for livelihood. Already, we have not received salaries for four months, including the two-month summer holidays which is not covered under the contract period. Many of the specialist teachers are finding it difficult to fulfil basic needs and we have not been included in welfare schemes and relief measures announced by the government,” said A Jills, convener of Wayanad district unit of Specialist Teachers Association. He said authorities informed that postings can resume only after schools reopen. “Government should think of incorporating lessons of arts, music and craft session for online classes if school reopening is delayed due to Covid-19. Having activities like drawing, craft or yoga will be a welcome break for students during online lessons,” he said, adding that specialist teachers were denied interim financial relief though other staffs, like cooks of mid-day meal programme, were provided financial aid during the pandemic. Meanwhile, SSK state project director AP Kuttikrishnan said that authorities were aware of the situation of specialist teachers but it must secured government nod before it can go ahead with their appointments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/2500-specialist-teachers-in-dire-straits/articleshow/77146088.cms||K R Rajeev
July 24, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: 2,500 specialist teachers in dire straits||KOZHIKODE: Over 2,500 specialist teachers, who are appointed on yearly contract basis at the start of the academic year, were left with no means of livelihood following the delay in school reopening due to Covid-19. The specialist teachers –appointed in upper primary (UP) schools under Samagra Shiksha Kerala (SSK) for subjects such as art and physical education –have been imparting lessons in subjects like drawing, music, craft etc. The teachers, who were left without a salary since April, are staring at an uncertain future. As many as 2,514 specialist teachers were appointed in 838 UP schools on contract basis with a monthly salary of Rs 28,000 in May 2016 using Centre’s Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) funds. But, SSA drastically cut the funds in 2018, following which their salaries were reduced to Rs 14000 after state government chipped in with a contribution of Rs 7,000/teacher. “During the past four year, we were very much part of the government’s initiative to protect and strengthen the general education sector. But in these trying times, we have been left with no means for livelihood. Already, we have not received salaries for four months, including the two-month summer holidays which is not covered under the contract period. Many of the specialist teachers are finding it difficult to fulfil basic needs and we have not been included in welfare schemes and relief measures announced by the government,” said A Jills, convener of Wayanad district unit of Specialist Teachers Association. He said authorities informed that postings can resume only after schools reopen. “Government should think of incorporating lessons of arts, music and craft session for online classes if school reopening is delayed due to Covid-19. Having activities like drawing, craft or yoga will be a welcome break for students during online lessons,” he said, adding that specialist teachers were denied interim financial relief though other staffs, like cooks of mid-day meal programme, were provided financial aid during the pandemic. Meanwhile, SSK state project director AP Kuttikrishnan said that authorities were aware of the situation of specialist teachers but it must secured government nod before it can go ahead with their appointments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/2500-specialist-teachers-in-dire-straits/articleshow/77135047.cms||K R Rajeev
July 24, 2020||Gurgaon||Town planner attacked by property owner during demolition drive in Gurugram||GURUGRAM: The district town planner of Gurugram came under attack from angry villagers in Dharampur on Thursday as a property owner tried to run him over with his tractor during a demolition drive. The senior official sustained injuries in his leg. So far, no police complaint has been filed. RS Batth, the town planner, was leading a team of the enforcement wing of the department of town and country planning (DTCP) to raze unauthorised commercial structures in the village. “Unauthorised construction of nearly 25 shops had taken place in Dharampur. We carried out the demolition drive with the help of 50 police personnel, but faced stiff resistance from the locals who seemed agitated,” Batth said. He added that the owner tried to restrict the movement of JCBs and halt the demolition drive. However, the situation was tackled and the unauthorised construction was razed, he said. As per norms, no construction and division of land is permitted without DTCP approval in areas that have been notified as ‘controlled’. However, many residential projects are at various stages of development in Sector 108, and shops and other commercial structures have also come up in violation of the master plan. After receiving several complaints, the department had issued a notice for demolition to the villagers. The property owner then approached the Punjab and Haryana high court but failed to get any relief. A DTCP permit is required for changing land use (CLU) to convert agriculture into non-agriculture land. Thereafter, for constructing any commercial or residential structure, an additional licence fee needs to be paid to the department. To avoid paying the fee, many people have illegally constructed commercial facilities, causing a huge loss of revenue to the government. Moreover, it has also led to unplanned development in violation of the master plan. In new sectors, especially, unauthorised construction has emerged as a challenge for the department. Batth said the demolition drive against illegal colonies will continue in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/town-planner-attacked-by-property-owner-during-demolition-drive-in-gurgaon/articleshow/77136691.cms||Bagish Jha
July 24, 2020||Varanasi||ACMO given chargesheet for laxity in Covid duty||VARANASI: District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma issued a chargesheet to additional chief medical officer Dr SS Kannaujiya for gross negligence in matter of Covid-19 management. Pointing out the allegations in the 13-point charge sheet, the DM has sought explanation from the ACMO in three days, failing which departmental action would be initiated against him. Dr Kannaujiya has been given responsibility to look after the work like daily contact tracing of Covid-19 patients, sampling, collecting detains of positive and negative cases, deaths. The DM observed that there were discrepancies as well as shortcoming in Dr Kannaujiya’s reports. Recently, it was found that 30 persons were missing after being tested positive. In most cases it was found that the addresses of positive persons are incorrect, and they are not available on the given numbers. According to the DM, legal action would be initiated against those who had given wrong details deliberately. Referring to the fact-sheet of one week regarding sample collection and contact tracing of Covid-19 patients, the DM observed that the pace of sampling was not up to the mark. The laxity in contact tracing has resulted in the increase in infection in the district. The poor performance in contact tracing has put Varanasi in the list of 10 worst districts in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/acmo-given-chargesheet-for-laxity-in-covid-duty/articleshow/77159227.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Nagpur||City gets new 370-bed Covid Care Centre||Nagpur: Left without a bed at the Covid Care Centre (CCC) at MLA Hostel, which was started 18 days ago, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Thursday had no option but to hurriedly start the city’s second CCC at Shalinitai Meghe Medical College (SMMC) at Hingna. On the first day, 14 asymptomatic patients were admitted at SMMC which at full capacity will have 370 beds on par with the MLA Hostel. Another 280 beds will be added at CCCs that would be started at two more institutions soon, as per NMC.Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi told TOI that staff shortage was a major worry in starting new CCCs at a couple of more institutions beside SMMC. “The decision to start the CCC at SMMC was taken on Wednesday evening. Plans are also afoot to start CCC at Government Polytechnic hostel in Sadar and Government College of Engineering on Wardha Road,” he said. Government Polytechnic hostel has 70 rooms and each will have two beds. The CCC at Government College of Engineering will have 140 beds. Plans are also afoot to start another CCC of 300 beds at VNIT girls hostel in a phased manner. The NMC is already running a big quarantine centre at VNIT. On July 23, TOI had reported that the administration was not utilizing any of the three trust-run hospitals including SMMNC, Lata Mangeshkar Hospital, and the CRPF Hospital, having total 1,320-beds despite earmarking them as Covid treatment facilities. The decision to utilize SMMC, a Dedicated Covid Hospital (DCH), as CCC has raised several eyebrows as the NMC had claimed a 5,000-bed CCC was ready at Radha Saomi Satsang Beas on Kalmeshwar Road. NMC’s own Indira Gandhi Rugnalaya at Gandhi Nagar and an SRA building at KT Nagar, which was converted as CCC amid stiff opposition, too are lying unused. Civil surgeon Dr Devendra Paturkar, who is nodal officer for Covid, said three new CCCs have been identified for the city. “They are not yet fully functional because of manpower issue. We are trying to resolve it,” he said.Regarding SMMC, Dr Paturkar said, “ It is a DCH but currently will be used as CCC. As and when need arises, it can be converted to DCH.”As per officials, the latest decisions were taken at a meeting chaired by the civic chief, and attended by deans of both GMCs, civil surgeon and other stakeholders, on Wednesday. The NMC has to fall back on institutions with smaller capacity after the grand plan to treat all asymptomatic patients at Radha Saomi Satsang facility came undone. In May, civic chief Tukaram Munde had personally visited the facility. An NMC official said that rainwater has entered the facility making it slushy. “Water pools have developed there and the group has started drainage work. So, patients can’t be shifted there till monsoon is over,” the official said.Though the NMC started to identify new places, health officials are not impressed because of spike in cases. “We need at least 1,500 CCC beds right now in Nagpur, only then the load on government hospitals will subside. Cases are growing on an average of 150 per day in Nagpur. So in 10 days, we will have 1,500 patients,” they said.Health officials said the NMC needs to revise its plan and follow the Central government guidelines like other cities. “80% of patients occupying DCH beds are supposed to be in home isolation, as per norms. But NMC is not adhering to it. Same happened in Pune and Mumbai where many died while being ferried in ambulances searching hospital beds. We need to learn from it,” they said. INFO BOXHead: Capacity of CCCs SMMC | 370 beds (14 admitted, fully functional by Monday)MLA hostel | 370 beds (all full)Govt Polytechnic | 140 beds (may start soon)Govt College of Engg | 140 beds (may start soon)VNIT girls hostel | 300 beds ((under process)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-gets-new-370-bed-covid-care-centre/articleshow/77135979.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 24, 2020||Varanasi||VMC proposes registration of pandas for fee, kicks up a storm||VARANASI: The Varanasi Municipal Corporation stirred the hornet’s nest by coming up with a provision of registration of pandas (priests) who perform rituals on ghats in Kashi and prescribed fees for booking platforms and holding events. The union of priests and many religious authorities opened a front against the civic body on Thursday on the issue. UP minister of state (independent charge) for tourism and religious affairs Neelkanth Tiwari intervened to resolve the issue and assured that no priest will have to pay fee. On Wednesday, VMC published a notification in local dailies introducing a bylaw for maintenance and conservation of ghats under its limits. Mentioning that the work would be done as per directives of National Green Tribunal, VMC said the bylaw is being introduced due to non-compliance of solid waste management and sanitation bylaw 2016. VMC also specified a fee of Rs 100 for registration of chowkis (platforms) for priests, Rs 200 to Rs 4,000 per day for social, religious and cultural activities and Rs 5,000 for events of longer duration (from 15 days to a year). When TOI contacted the in-charge officer (revenue) of VMC, Vinay Rai, he said, “The provisions are being introduced for cleanliness and maintenance of ghats.” Akhil Bharatiya Teerth Purohit Mahasabha and Kashi Teerth Purohit Mahasabha strongly opposed the VMC notification by terming it a bid to hit the traditions of the holy city. Mahasabha general secretary Kanhaiya Tripathi demanded immediate withdrawal of the decision and said VMC should have consulted local scholars before publishing the notification. Swami Jitendranand Saraswati of Ganga Mahasabha compared the fees being imposed with the jazia tax imposed on non-Muslims by Mughal rulers and demanded its immediate withdrawal. Minister for tourism and religious affairs Neelkanth Tiwari intervened before the row could escalate and said, “The Panda Samaj should not be worried. No fee will be charged from them for performing rituals on ghats, but if any priest wants to get registered the facility is available.” Tiwari also talked to divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal and municipal commissioner Gaurang Rathi on the issue and said registration is not must for priests neither do they have to pay any fee. Rathi said a meeting will be convened in a day or two with all stakeholders to clarify the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/vmc-proposes-registration-ofpandas-for-fee-kicks-up-a-storm/articleshow/77136855.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
July 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Bizmen demand one time settlement scheme from PSIEC||Ludhiana: City businessmen having plots in focal points are demanding that Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC) brings out one time settlement (OTS) scheme for the cases of enhancement of land costs. According to the businessmen, there are a large number of ongoing disputes with the PSIEC over the issue of enhancement of land cost imposed on them even after they built their factories on the plots allotted by the PSIEC and these disputes have been pending for several years. For a speedy redress of these issues and ending of the dispute amicably between the allotment holder and the PSIEC, OTS scheme should be introduced at the earliest. Speaking on the issue, Gurmeet Kular, president of Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO), said, “There is a huge number of pending disputes related with land enhancement and these have been running for years now. Take the case of demand notices issued by the PSIEC to the allotees of the Focal Point, Phase VIII, where Rs 474 per square yard is being charged on account of compensation of enhancement of rates, the decision on this is still pending in court. But due to the PSIEC slapping the enhancement cost on us and sending us notices, the entire factories situated in the Phase VIII are suffering as all our works related to financial institutes, including banks, are on hold due to wait for clearance certificate from the PSIEC.” He said, “Moreover, the industrial units established in Focal Point, Phase VIII, cannot get their credit limits enhanced from banks due to this pendency and they can’t get their bank accounts transferred, which is hitting the industry very badly and its growth has been stalled. Moreover, according to new industrial policy-2017, not even a single application from any industrial unit from Focal Point, Phase VIII, who wants to get the benefits of Invest Punjab policy of the government of Punjab, has been processed due to the same reason” Kular added, “Recently, we met PSIEC chairman Gurpreet Gogi and have apprised him about our demand of bringing OTS policy for the enhancement cases. Gogi has understood our point of view and he has assured us that he will take the required steps to resolve this long pending issue at the earliest.” According to Rajeev Jain, general secretary of FICO, “As the case related to enhancement of land cost of Focal Point, Phase VIII, is still pending in court, how can we pay the charges without waiting for court’s decision. But even then we are ready to provide an undertaking to the PSIEC that we will abide by the decision and shall pay whatever the court decides. We also request the PSIEC that all matters related to the financial institutions or new investment schemes in accordance with the new industrial policy of Punjab should not be affected by the pendency of clearance certificate from the PSIEC to the industrialists.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-demand-one-time-settlement-scheme-from-psiec/articleshow/77135984.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Goa||Goa sees 174 new Covid-19 infections on Thursday||PANAJI: Goa’s tally of active cases increased to 1,666 with 174 new infections reported on Thursday. As many as 114 patients were cured and discharged. The government has issued standard operating procedures (SOP) for home quarantining very mild, pre-symptomatic and asymptomatic Covid patients. The cabinet on Wednesday had decided that asymptomatic Covid patients may be allowed to home quarantine. A spike in new cases was reported from Cortalim, Sanguem, Ponda, Loutolim, Margao, Panaji, Chimbel, Candolim and Colvale. After a gap of over a week, Loutolim in South Goa and Chimbel in North saw a rise in cases. Both areas saw steady rise in infections spread over two weeks last month and subsequent drop in numbers. The rise in cases reported in two areas — Loutolim 16 and Chimbel 15 cases — indicates people mustn’t lower their guard even if there is dip in cases for a week or more, a health official said. “Precautions have to be taken because it takes time for Covid-19 symptoms to surface in some patients while some may not at all exhibit any signs of the virus,” he said. Candolim also witnessed a rise with 11 new cases reported on Thursday. A school teacher and her son from Old Goa have tested positive. Another teacher from an educational institute in Bicholim also tested positive. All 50-plus employees of the institute were subjected to tests and their reports are awaited. Twenty-three new cases were reported from Cortalim, which now has a total of 400 cases. As per the new SOP, any asymptomatic Covid patient wishing to be home isolated will require to place his request before the collector or deputy collector through an email and submit an undertaking annexed to the application form. The application will be forwarded to the health officer concerned who shall ascertain the status of the patient and re-submit it to the deputy collector or collector with his recommendations. A symptomatic Covid patient will be allowed to be in home quarantine on recommendations of the health official, but subject to condition that he updates his health status to local health authority. A local body — panchayat or municipality — will be intimated about it and required to paste a sticker on the patient’s house. It will be the responsibility of the panchayat or municipality to keep a tab on patients in home quarantine in their jurisdictions and that they do not flout the conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-sees-174-new-infections-on-thu/articleshow/77137122.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Nagpur||Collector, Kamptee officials come in contact with +ve man, none tested||Nagpur: District collector Ravindra Thakare, Kamptee tehsildar Arvind Hinge and a large number of officials have come in contact with a top municipal council office-bearer who tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday.By Thursday evening, none of them was quarantined or tested unlike it has been happening in case of citizens. During the day, Thakare continued to hold several meetings. He didn’t respond to TOI’s calls and message.Last week, Thakare had told TOI that he and 40 of his staff had already got themselves tested after a top official tested positive. The staffers too were asked to work from home. Their result is still not known.A day before giving his swab for testing, the office-bearer was present in a Covid meeting headed by the collector in the tehsil office on Monday. Among the various issues now plaguing the cantonment town with a sudden spike in cases, the district officials had discussed several private hospitals hiding suspected patients and alleged not reporting Covid deaths.On Thursday when TOI visited the tehsil office, it was business as usual and on-duty staff said no one was asked to isolate themselves.Instead, the local administration has set up an exclusive Covid testing camp in the area of the office-bearer. “14 people voluntarily came to the camp and gave their swab samples. We are already conducting door-to-door survey. The camp in this area will go on for some more days,” Hinge said.Among the 13 tehsils in the district, Kamptee has reported the maximum cases of 302 and seven deaths. As per officials, five deaths have been reported from Imli Bagh, where the office-bearer lives. Most of the cases from the town are symptomatic and many are being reported to government hospitals at a critical stage.On July 22, TOI had reported about the tehsil office sealing a private hospital and also about the meeting chaired by Thakare at the tehsil office.Following the meeting, the collector was flanked by the office-bearer and other officials while speaking to local media channels. Soon after the news of the office-bearer testing positive broke, the video went viral about showing him standing close to the collector during the media interaction.Hinge said none of the officials has been tested or quarantined as yet. “Physical distancing was maintained while holding the meeting,” he said.The condition of the office-bearer is said to be stable but he has co-morbidities like diabetes and BP. “He has been put on oxygen,” Hinge said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/collector-kamptee-officials-come-in-contact-with-ve-man-none-tested/articleshow/77135986.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Second-hand machinery dealers score lucrative deals even as businesses shut shop||Ludhiana: While for most Covid-19 has come to symbolise losses, opportunities are knocking at second hand machinery dealers doors. With the cutting down of production costs and with some units winding up, they are getting very good deals — even though the market has considerably slowed down, the dealers are buying up, because they are getting the machinery at really cheap rates. They are hopeful that in three to four months, there will be enough demand in the market for these machines. According to Devesh Kumar, a second hand machinery trader from Shivpuri, “This is perhaps for the first time that such large number of factory owners are contacting us for sale of their machines of different types. Majority of these are from the garment sector and the reason behind this is that a lot of units are cutting down their size to half and even less, while there are some which have permanently shut down their business and are now doing trading only. So, they do not require machinery any more. The highest number of machines available for sales nowadays include stitching machines, overlock folding, interlock, sewing machine, iron steam presses with boiler, cutter and cutting table. Although at this moment there are no buyers for these machines, as all units are facing huge shortage of labour and funds, but we are hopeful that in coming months there will be huge demand for these machines. We are stocking up right now as the rates have come down considerably and it seems to be right investment for making good money in future.” According to Surinder Pal, another second hand machinery dealer from Gill Road, “As far as market situation is concerned there are many sellers out there who are willing to sell their machinery, but unfortunately there are no buyers. But as far as traders and investors are concerned, this is the right time and we have already stocked machinery in our stores.” Sukhwinder Singh, garment manufacturer from Shivpuri said, “Second hand machinery business is the only business in the garment sector, which is booming right now. A lot of people who have good financial backing have even switched trades and have started to deal with second hand machinery, as they know that during coming months there will be a huge demand. Moreover, right now they are getting best deals as some units are selling entire machinery at throwaway prices.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/second-hand-machinery-dealers-score-lucrative-deals-even-as-businesses-shut-shop/articleshow/77136000.cms||Mohit Behl
July 24, 2020||Nagpur||Social worker moves HC against ‘exorbitant’ power bills||Nagpur: Peeved over “exorbitant” power bills received after easing of lockdown, a social worker knocked Nagpur bench of Bombay high court’s doors, praying for directives to respondents, including the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL), to send corrected bills.A division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Nitin Suryawanshi issued notices to the respondents, including the secretary of the state department of energy, asking them to reply within two weeks. The MSEDCL chief engineer in Mumbai, executive engineer in Katol and its sub-division at Mahdibagh in the city, are other respondents in the PIL.Petitioner Janardhan Moon, through counsel Ashwin Ingole submitted a bill of Rs18,720 which was issued by the MSEDCL office at Mahdibagh in his wife’s name.When he calculated the bill as per the slab rates fixed by the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC), it was revealed that an excess amount of Rs3,529 was charged by the MSEDCL. His wife lodged a complaint and demanded the corrected bill as per the MERC slab rates, on which no progress has been made till date. According to the 71-year-old petitioner, about 2.30 crore people used MSEDCL power in the state, but majority of them are unaware of the slab rates fixed by the regulatory body. Taking undue benefit of this, the respondents have sent such “illegal” bills to the consumers, charging them excessively, Moon argued.He pointed out that despite a slew of complaints, citizens were not extended any benefit, and were told to pay the bills in instalments. Moreover, they were assured by the respondents of just 2% benefit. “There is public outcry against the respondents for levying exorbitant bills, yet the MSEDCL is forcing the aggrieved consumers to pay the bills without granting any benefit to them on slab rates. Various consumer organizations have also staged agitations across the state against the respondents,” Moon contended.The petitioner prayed for directives to the respondents for issuing properly calculated bills to the consumers in the entire state by levying lower tariff as per the MERC guidelines, and passing benefits to them. He also requested that the MSEDCL should be restrained from taking any coercive action against any consumer, till the time it comes out with corrected bills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/social-worker-moves-hc-against-exorbitant-power-bills/articleshow/77136007.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 24, 2020||Goa||Nutrition improves for Covid-19 hospital patients in Margao||MARGAO: Dal fry, chana masala and cabbage bhaji with a bowl of rice/roti, supplemented by a medium-sized banana and a boiled egg. As the culinary fare appears nutritious yet appealing enough, things seem to be looking up for the patients at the ESI-Covid hospital in Margao, at least on the food front. The thali was served to the 120-odd Covid-19 patients on Thursday for lunch. “The menu has been planned considering requisite high protein diet for Covid-19 patients and has a balanced proportion of carbohydrates, proteins and fats supplying approximately 1,000cal and 30gm protein, besides dietary vitamins and minerals. All standard hygiene protocols are strictly followed while preparing the food,” the dietician at the hospital noted in her record sheet. As per the new standard operating procedure (SOP) put in place for preparing and serving food for Covid patients, the daily menu needs to be approved by the South Goa district administration before the food is cooked and served to the patients. The district administration pulled up its socks and streamlined the process of food management for patients following reports of sub-standard food being served to the patients. “It’s not that the patients were given poor quality food earlier. It’s just that we are now maintaining the records of the food served that is in accordance with the dietary requirements of Covid patients. We are also ensuring that the patients are served an extra protein-rich diet,” Prasanna Acharya, in-charge of the ESI-Covid hospital representing the South Goa district administration, told TOI. The lunch and dinner are prepared in the ESI kitchen under strict hygienic conditions and under the supervision of the ESI hospital’s dietician. However, the culinary services hardly earn any appreciation from the patients, largely as they are symptomatic Covid patients, who have lost their sense of taste and smell — typical Covid-19 symptoms — and thus find the food bland and unpalatable. Sources said that following a recent crisis after the several members of the ESI kitchen staff tested positive for Covid-19, catering of all three meals were outsourced. The ESI has now restored its kitchen services, though the breakfast for patients still remains outsourced. The serving plates and utensils are sterilized after every use. Nevertheless, maintaining the hospital’s wash rooms still remains a challenging task for the hospital’s multi-tasking staff. Sources said that as most of the patients admitted in the hospital are residents of slums, some aren’t toilet trained and thus leave the wash rooms in a mess. “It’s gut wrenching to observe chappal marks atop the toilet bowl, thereby indicating that the earlier user had climbed on it. There are other unspeakable ways the toilet bowls are put to use by some patients who apparently had never used toilets before,” a health care worker in the hospital told TOI. “And you can’t toilet-train them at a time when they are facing a health crisis.” Despite all odds and constraints, sources in the ESI said, the multi-tasking staff engaged in maintaining the toilets are doing a “wonderful job.” “The staff is stretched to the limit,” a hospital source said. “They have been working without any break for the last 3-4 months. The resources too are over stretched. The hospital was earlier catering to a limited number of ESI patients and was under utilised. The staff and resources are now catering to twice or thrice its earlier capacity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nutrition-improves-for-covid-hospital-patients/articleshow/77137128.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
July 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Online admissions yet to gather pace||Coimbatore: The idea of online admission doesn’t seem to have evoked much response from the parents, who are by and large reluctant to admit their wards to a college sans visiting the campus. While the state has asked self-financing and aided colleges to conduct admissions online because of the pandemic situation, majority of the city colleges say the response has been poor and seats are filling up very slowly. Another reason for this might be lack of internet know-how among the people in rural areas.A day after Class XII results were declared, the directorate of collegiate education had on July 17 directed arts and science colleges to conduct admissions only online. Some colleges are admitting students directly on a first come first serve basis, and others are just collecting applications and admissions would be made based on the merit list.While most colleges already have an online portal for downloading application forms and uploading them, this year they have introduced online fee payment methods. Some colleges have also taken the extra mile to guide the parents and students through the process over phone.A Ponnusamy, principal, Hindusthan College of Arts and Science, said they were seeing only around 100 applications a day this year, compared to 250 last year. “Usually, parents would wish to visit the college campus and assess the facilities before they admit their wards. It seems they are a bit reluctant to admit children online.” Ponnusamy is also president of Principals’ Association of Bharathiar University.B L Shivakumar, principal, Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science, expressed a similar view. “Parents from other districts would want to visit the college hostel before admitting their wards. We have been getting calls from parents expressing this concern.”Citing restrictions on movement and difficulties in getting e-passes, people from neighbouring districts such as the Nilgiris said they were in a fix. “My cousin had scored 540 marks and she wanted to pursue BCom in a college in Coimbatore. We initially hesitated, as we were not sure of the hostel and other facilities. We then inquired our friends and acquaintances there before taking her admission in a college of her choice,” said an Ooty resident over phone.People from rural areas are, meanwhile, finding it difficult to follow the online procedures. College representatives said they would guide them over phone or WhatsApp. “In our website, we have provided contact numbers of all department heads and professors. They would guide the parents and students through the process,” said a representative of Avinashilingam Institute for Home Science and Higher Education for Women. “If they are not able to make online payment, there is an option to pay it in banks and send us a photo of the receipt.”He also admitted that the number of students taking admissions in a day was low. “Usually, majority of the seats get filled in three days. But this year, it seems it will take another week.”Infographic: Number of arts and science colleges in the city: 55They include autonomous, aided and self-financing collegesTotal number of seats in these colleges: More than 70,000Sought-after courses: BCom, BCA, BSc Computer Science, BSc IT, BA English, BSc Maths, BSc BiotechnologyDemand high for commerce, computer science Coimbatore: When it comes to sought-after courses, BCom and BSc computer science as usual top the choices of students. College representatives say seats for these courses are almost filled.B L Shivakumar, principal, Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science, said, “BCom seats have been filled and there are only a few seats left for BSc Computer Science.”Principals and representatives of other city colleges too say the demand for commerce and computer science courses was high this year too, compared to other courses. Students are, meanwhile, making a beeline for aided courses as fee is comparatively less for them. “Usually, parents prefer aided courses for their wards. This year, their number has swelled because of the economic situation. We are finding it difficult to fill seats for self-financing courses as the fee is a bit higher,” said a representative of a city college.For Tamil Nadu Engineering Admissions (TNEA), the online application procedure was opened on July 15. So far, 97,441 candidates have registered and 72,581 of them have completed the payment procedure, said an official.However, academics say it would take some time to know the trend as engineering courses have been losing favour in the recent past. The last date to apply for TNEA is August 16 and counselling is set to take place in September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/online-admissions-yet-to-gather-pace/articleshow/77136697.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Vadodara||Two cheat jewellers with fakes||Vadodara: Two persons were arrested and one was declared as wanted for cheating three jewellers in different areas of the city. The accused Kanchan Senva and his wife Pravina used to visit the jewellery shop and replace gold jewellery with imitation ones. Along with Senva, a man named Nimesh Rawal was arrested for buying the jewellery from him. According to police, the couple visited jewellers in Gotri and MG Road near Mandvi as customers this month and in December last year. At all jewellery shops they used to ask for gold rings. “After choosing a particular design they used to pay Rs 500 advance and tell the shop keeper that they will collect the jewellery after a fortnight by paying the remaining amount,” said a police official. Police said that Pravina used to replace the rings with fake ones when the shop keeper would be looking away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-cheat-jewellers-with-fakes/articleshow/77135541.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Coimbatore||1.5kg ganja seized, 4 men arrested||Coimbatore: Police seized 1.5kg ganja from four peddlers on Wednesday.Thudiyalur police sub-inspector Chandrakumar and team arrested B Sasikumar, 24, a native of Pudukkottai district, with 1.1kg ganja from Ashok Nagar bridge at Kavundampalayam on Wednesday evening. Sasikumar was remanded in judicial custody.Kuniyamuthur sub-inspector Udhayakumar and team arrested C Gopi, 28, of Edayarpalayam near Kuniyamuthur for possession 200 grams of ganja. Gopi was later let off on station bail.Kuniyamuthur sub-inspector Silambarasan and team arrested V Kumar, 21 and V Nagaraj, 21, of Senthamizh Nagar at Sugunapuram with 200 grams of ganja from Senkulam on the Kuniyamuthur – Sundakkamuthur Road. The duo was later let off on station bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/1-5kg-ganja-seized-4-men-arrested/articleshow/77136685.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Goa||Sudin suggests utilising GST funds for farmers, youths||Ponda: Marcaim MLA and former deputy chief minister Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar has suggested that the Goods and Services Tax (GST) returns received from the Centre be utilised for farmers, Sanjivani sugar factory and for settling youths who have become jobless after retrenchment by companies hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. Dhavalikar told reporters on Thursday that Rs 61 crore could be used for compensating farmers and running the sugar factory at Dharbandora. Another Rs 100 crore should be used for retrenched youth. With the funds in hand, the government can set up better infrastructure for Covid victims, he said. Dhavalikar said the government should think about poor farmers and jobless youth before using the money for more development projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sudin-suggests-utilising-gst-funds-for-farmers-youths/articleshow/77272075.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Nagpur||Business as usual saved Malegaon: Can be replicated in Kamptee, Akola, Nagpur too||Nagpur: “Move ahead leaving fear behind” is a one-line message from the success story of Covid-19 containment in Malegaon of Nashik district which was one of the earliest and one of the worst hotspots in Maharashtra. Malegaon had completed 1,000 cases in a record time, but it has been reporting less than 10 cases a day for the last 10 days. Moreover, the number of Covid-19 deaths has reduced significantly even during the unlock 1 and unlock 2 period.Malegaon can be easily compared with towns in Vidarbha like Kamptee and Akola as Covid situation and population here are similar. Malegaon’s population is around 10 lakh. It registered the first Covid case on April 8 and since then emerged as a hotspot with 1,217 cases and 83 deaths till July 23. Out of these, 42 deaths were reported between April 27 and May 18 (21 days). Remaining 41 deaths were reported from May 19 to July 23, which is 66 days.Nashik’s district collector Suraj Mandhare shared the success story of Malegaon which neither has lockdown nor restrictions on movements, but also allowed opening of businesses and powerlooms — for which this town is identified.“The moment we started powerlooms, people immediately jumped in and started leading a normal life,” he said. As present situation in Kamptee, Akola and some areas in Nagpur is quite similar to that of Malegaon, same pattern could be a way to go for these places also. Apart from business as usual, some important aspects of Malegaon’s success stories are multiple treatment options and no information overload to the people. “Though the public health system is in place, still a parallel system including oxygen (O2) concentrators is catering to the patients who wanted to get treated at home. It was a calculated risk and it worked well for us,” said Mandhare. “Moreover, people here mostly read local Urdu newspapers which rarely publish complex things like case fatality rate, doubling rate, antigen kits, vaccine development etc. This kept citizens away from fear psychosis and also saved them from getting drowned in wrong conclusions,” he added.Political and administrative synergy was also a major reason. “Politicians didn’t just supervised, but helped genuinely whenever required. Administration didn’t just regulate the things, but worked as volunteers. NGOs didn’t file PILs and actually worked towards public interest. And finally, people didn’t place just demands but actually contributed their bit,” said Mandhare. Malegaon Success Story & VidarbhaDischarge policy | 10-day no-symptoms no-test discharge policy — This is being implemented in Vidarbha tooMultiple treatment options | Patients who wanted to get treated at home were allowed to do so — This is not allowed in Vidarbha, so far No information overload | Limited media access (mostly Urdu newspapers) in Malegaon kept people away from fear psychosis — This is difficult to happen in well-read VidarbhaBusiness as usual | Powerlooms started, so people started leading normal life — Many industries are still struggling to start in VidarbhaSynergy across stakeholders | Political, religious leaders, NGOs, and administrative officials worked together — This is not visible at least in Nagpur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/business-as-usual-saved-malegaon-can-be-replicated-in-kamptee-akola-nagpur-too/articleshow/77135996.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Gang of burglars caught on cam||Coimbatore: The Singanallur police have beefed up security after a burglary gang was caught on CCTV camera at Deepam Nagar at Irugur on Thursday morning.The video showed five men wearing briefs roaming through the streets of Deepam Nagar. One of them was carrying a stick. Residents had sent the video to police, a police officer said. “We have strengthened beat patrolling in the area. Night beat cops will also keep an eye on the area,” he told TOI. “Plainclothes men have been deployed to catch the gang.”Youths in the area have also decided to remain vigilant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gang-of-burglars-caught-on-cam/articleshow/77136693.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Fogging operation: Monsoon fails to ‘wake up MC from slumber’||Ludhiana: With the rainy season on and people complaining about mosquitoes, it seems that the municipal corporation officials are waiting for the spread of malaria and dengue, along with Covid-19, for doing effective fogging in city areas. As of now, 14 machines have been given for taking care of 17 lakh people and one-time fogging is being done ward wise. There are 95 small machines for fogging as well, which are usually given to councillors for fogging as per residents’ demand but these also have not been put to work yet. A resident of Model Town, Gurpreet Singh, said, “It happens almost every year that first the civic body does not care about timely fogging in the city and when mosquitoes breed and people become victims of malaria and dengue they come out with a fogging plan. Fogging should be done to stop development of larvae in the initial stage and not after the disease has spread.” Another resident from Yash Colony Veena Kapoor said, “Last year also, fogging was done only twice or thrice in the area and people had complained about spread of dengue. This year, when already coronavirus cases are increasing dengue will add more problems to the existing one.” She said at least this year officials should pay attention towards the need to control things at the right time. However, even the councillors claimed that the situation might turn grim if the authorities did not wake up immediately and start intensive fogging in the city. The leader of opposition and senior Shiromani Akali Dal councillor Harbhajan Dang said, “Fogging has taken place once till now, which could not leave any major impact. The residents are complaining about mosquitoes and we had asked for small machines to conduct fogging in the localities as per their demand, but still we have not received any intimation about those machines.” He said he would take up the matter with mayor Balkar Sandhu. Meanwhile leader of BJP councillors in MC house and councillor from ward number 85 Sunita Rani said, "The officials are waiting for the spreading of dengue in city and when people will fell sick they will start intensive fogging." She said already people are troubled due to coronavirus and there is no space in hospitals to treat other patients and in case dengue cases started coming there will be tough time even for doctors to handle so many things together. The medical health officer, Dr Vipul Malhotra, said, “We have made a schedule for fogging and ward wise areas are being covered. In some areas fogging is taking place in the morning while in others it is happening in evening time.” He said as of now they were told to do fogging with big machines, so it was going on. “Our teams are going with the health officials for checking dengue larvae, but as of now we have not detected it anywhere in the city.” The mayor said, “I am going to ask for increasing the time for doing fogging in the city for timely control of the spread of dengue and malaria in the city.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/fogging-operation-monsoon-fails-to-wake-up-mc-from-slumber/articleshow/77136011.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Students, teachers welcome cancellation of semester exams||Coimbatore: The state government has done the right thing by calling off the semester exams, student and teacher associations in the city said.The government had on Thursday called off exams for the first and second year students of UG arts and science courses, and polytechnic courses, first, second and third year exams for UG engineering courses, first year PG arts and engineering courses and first and second year MCA courses.Representatives of the Students Federation of India (SFI), who had earlier staged protests demanding cancellation of exams, said there could have been no other way but to call off the exams. SFI district secretary Dhinesh Raja said it wouldn’t have been possible to gather students to conduct exams at this juncture. “Online exams would not have been possible with a huge population of rural students having no access to network or devices,” he said.Teachers’ association representatives agreed. President of the Tamil Nadu Government Collegiate Teachers’ Association (TNGCTA) T Veeramani said for every exam, around 600 students would appear, and they would have to sit for three hours, which would have posed serious risk. “Calling off the semester exams was the right move,” he said.Students and teachers body representatives said they expect the state to call off semester exams for the final year also, as students have to decide on their future. “The state can follow the same procedure as that for other years and award grades for final years. It will allow final year students to decide on taking up higher studies or choose a career,” said Veeramani.If exams were conducted for final years, it would take another two months for declaring results and even longer for re-valuation, said Dhinesh. “This would mean some final year students stand to lose an entire year. So, the state should call off exams for final years as well. If final year exams are also called off, students would decide quickly on pursuing PG courses such as M.Sc, MBA or B.L,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/students-teachers-welcome-cancellation-of-semester-exams/articleshow/77136703.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Kanpur||Vikas Dubey’s aide Prabhat Mishra shot in encounter wasn’t minor, used fake edu docus: Police||KANPUR: Slain gangster Vikas Dubey’s aide Prabhat Mishra alias Kartikey who drove the don through a circuitous route from his Shivli hideout to Faridabad, was an adult, claimed UP Police, punching holes in the family’s theory that he was barely 17 when he was shot in an encounter. Police officials claim to have blown the lid off discrepancies in Prabhat’s educational documents and said he masqueraded under several names and used a fake document for admission in another school. During probe, police stumbled upon a transfer certificate issued by a primary school in Bikru, which mentioned his age as 20. Circle Officer, Bilhaur, Santosh Singh said, “In the transfer certificate issued by a basic primary school in Bikru, Prabhat’s date of birth is recorded as August 17, 2000, but in the high school certificate it was May 27, 2004. His name in the TC issued by primary school in Bikru is Shanu, but he had changed it to Kartikey while taking admission in high school.” Though his father’s name is same in both documents, his mother’s name in the transfer certificate is Guddi, while it’s Suman Lata in high school, Singh said. “We also found that Prabhat used a fake TC of Azad Inter College, Bilhaur to take admission in Paritosh Inter College in Naubasta. Authorities in Azad Memorial Inter College, Shivrajpur, said the TC had not been issued by them,” the CO said. Prabhat’s sister Himanshi had displayed his high school marksheet to media persons and claimed he was just 17 when he was killed in a police encounter. After the ambush of cops in Bikru, Prabhat accompanied Vikas to Faridabad in Haryana and was arrested on July 7. Two days later, when a police team was bringing Prabhat to Kanpur, their vehicle suffered a flat tyre near Panki. Taking advantage of the situation, Prabhat punched constable, snatched a 9 mm pistol and opened fire at cops. Police fired in retaliation, injuring him. He was pronounced dead at Bara Sirohi community health centre, Kalyanpur. In the press release issued after the encounter, police had mentioned Prabhat’s age as 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/dons-aide-prabhat-shot-in-encounter-wasnt-minor-used-fake-edu-docus-police/articleshow/77136904.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 24, 2020||Madurai||A new high: 6,472 Covid-19 cases across Tamil Nadu in one day||CHENNAI: The number of fresh Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu surged to a highest-ever 6,472 cases on Thursday, which also saw 88 deaths taking the cumulative toll to 3,232. With the state permitting pooled testing (RT-PCR) in 21 districts, the number of people tested increased to 60,375 on Thursday compared to 58,475 on Wednesday and 50,055 on Tuesday. The number of active cases rose from 51,344 on Tuesday to 52,939 on Thursday. “Our cure rate has been very good. At least seven out of ten people recover in about two weeks,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. In the last three days, 15,085 people have been discharged. “We still have one of the lowest mortality rates in the country,” he said. The 11 districts in the north, particularly Chennai and its three neighbours logged most fresh cases and deaths, followed by the 10 districts in the South, which together clocked 2,079 fresh cases and 30 deaths. Districts in the west together logged two deaths more than the districts in the central region. But the central districts had 510 cases -- 23 more than their western counterparts. The highest number of deaths was reported in Chennai (11), while Madurai recorded eight deaths and Coimbatore, Trichy and Dindigul six each With 1,336 cases, hotspot Chennai continued to report the maximum number of cases, followed by its neighbour Tiruvallur (416). Chennai’s neighbours Chengalpet (375), Kancheepuram(330) and Tiruvallur(416) together reported 1,121 cases. Ranipet had 214, Tiruvannamalai 193, Kallakuruchi 134, Vellore 117, and Villupuram 112. This took the total number of fresh cases in the region to 2,457 and active cases to 22,779. The 10 southern districts closely followed the north with 2,079 fresh cases on Thursday. This is the highest single-day spike in cases in the region. Virudhunagar had the highest number of cases, 480, followed by Tuticorin, 415.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/a-new-high-6472-covid-19-cases-across-tn-in-one-day/articleshow/77137828.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Chennai||Trial of Covaxin begins in Chennai, 2 given shots||CHENNAI: The phase-1 human clinical trials of indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, called Covaxin, began at SRM Medical College Hospital and Research Centre in Kattankulathur on Thursday with two volunteers being administered the first set of doses through injections. SRM was one of the 12 institutions chosen by ICMR to conduct the trials for the vaccine developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech in collaboration with ICMR and the National Institute of Virology. Dr Satyajit Mohapatra, principal investigator for the human clinical trials at the hospital, said the phase-1 trials will involve studying the safety of the vaccine in a healthy individual and will decide the right dosage that will be effective against the virus. A total of 375 healthy individuals, aged between 18 and 55 with no co-morbidity, will be recruited as volunteers for phase-1 trials across all the 12 sites with each site having around 40 volunteers. “Two healthy volunteers were administered 0.5ml of the vaccine. In total, we will administer two doses- one on day zero and the next on day 14,” he said. Dr A Sundaram, dean, said the vaccine contains the inactivated virus. It is a weakened or inactivated version of the coronavirus to provoke an immune response. Following the injections, the doctor said, the volunteers will have to visit the hospital for follow-ups on day 28, 42, 104 and 194 when their response to the vaccination will be assessed by immunogenicity testing. “It will be a seamless phase which means at some point of phase-1, the data will be analysed, and the sponsor and the committee members will decide on phase-2 based on that. So, while phase-1 is still underway, phase-2 trials will begin,” Dr Mohapatra said. SRM said five major projects related to Covid are ongoing at the clinical trial facility. It includes a BCG vaccine trial against Covid, an ICMR-led cohort study on hydroxychloroquine prophylaxis for healthcare workers, an international multi-centric clinical trial for Covid patients with certain drugs and a siddha-based kabasura kudineer for Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/trial-of-covaxin-begins-in-chennai-2-given-shots/articleshow/77136029.cms||U Tejonmayam
July 24, 2020||Kanpur||Provide TV, newspapers to Covid patients admitted in hospitals: Rajneesh Dube||KANPUR: Additional chief secretary (medical education) Rajneesh Dube on Thursday directed the officials to install TVs and arrange newspapers for Covid-19 patients and assured that there was no shortage of beds in the city hospitals. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had on Wednesday asked Dube to visit Kanpur to assess the situation of medical colleges in the city in view of the rising number of Covid cases. Besides, Dube also directed that family members of either those in holding areas or infected should also be apprised about the medical condition of their kin. Depute a person bed-wise for informing the condition of patients to his family members, he directed the officials. He also inspected the Covid facility at LLR hospital and directed that seniors doctors should visit the Covid ward regularly and repeatedly, and deploy junior doctors and monitor their working. He also witnessed the CCTV monitoring and said the number of beds have been increased and there was no shortage of beds now. He specifically said that newspapers must be provided to each patient and TVs should be installed in all the hospitals. He also said that ambulance services were also being enhanced from this day. Dube also inspected the medical college, municipal corporation control room, Rama medical college and Naraina medical college, and witnessed the facilities and management there. During the inspection, district magistrate Dr Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari, municipal commissioner Akshay Tripathi, CMO Dr Anil Mishra were present. On Wednesday, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had said in Lucknow that private hospitals in the city should also be roped in for Covid-19 duty. The CM had asked Dube to visit Kanpur to assess the situation of medical colleges in the city. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said on Wednesday, “The CM has asked Dube to visit Kanpur and review arrangements to check the spread of coronavirus. He will also assess arrangements in medical colleges and recommend the roadmap for battle against Covid-19. The CM has directed that private medical colleges and hospitals should be used for Covid care.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/provide-tv-newspapers-to-covid-patients-admitted-in-hospitals-dube/articleshow/77136901.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Coimbatore||A new high: 6,472 Covid-19 cases across Tamil Nadu in one day||CHENNAI: The number of fresh Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu surged to a highest-ever 6,472 cases on Thursday, which also saw 88 deaths taking the cumulative toll to 3,232. With the state permitting pooled testing (RT-PCR) in 21 districts, the number of people tested increased to 60,375 on Thursday compared to 58,475 on Wednesday and 50,055 on Tuesday. The number of active cases rose from 51,344 on Tuesday to 52,939 on Thursday. “Our cure rate has been very good. At least seven out of ten people recover in about two weeks,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. In the last three days, 15,085 people have been discharged. “We still have one of the lowest mortality rates in the country,” he said. The 11 districts in the north, particularly Chennai and its three neighbours logged most fresh cases and deaths, followed by the 10 districts in the South, which together clocked 2,079 fresh cases and 30 deaths. Districts in the west together logged two deaths more than the districts in the central region. But the central districts had 510 cases -- 23 more than their western counterparts. The highest number of deaths was reported in Chennai (11), while Madurai recorded eight deaths and Coimbatore, Trichy and Dindigul six each With 1,336 cases, hotspot Chennai continued to report the maximum number of cases, followed by its neighbour Tiruvallur (416). Chennai’s neighbours Chengalpet (375), Kancheepuram(330) and Tiruvallur(416) together reported 1,121 cases. Ranipet had 214, Tiruvannamalai 193, Kallakuruchi 134, Vellore 117, and Villupuram 112. This took the total number of fresh cases in the region to 2,457 and active cases to 22,779. The 10 southern districts closely followed the north with 2,079 fresh cases on Thursday. This is the highest single-day spike in cases in the region. Virudhunagar had the highest number of cases, 480, followed by Tuticorin, 415.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/a-new-high-6472-covid-19-cases-across-tn-in-one-day/articleshow/77137826.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Erode||A new high: 6,472 Covid-19 cases across Tamil Nadu in one day||CHENNAI: The number of fresh Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu surged to a highest-ever 6,472 cases on Thursday, which also saw 88 deaths taking the cumulative toll to 3,232. With the state permitting pooled testing (RT-PCR) in 21 districts, the number of people tested increased to 60,375 on Thursday compared to 58,475 on Wednesday and 50,055 on Tuesday. The number of active cases rose from 51,344 on Tuesday to 52,939 on Thursday. “Our cure rate has been very good. At least seven out of ten people recover in about two weeks,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. In the last three days, 15,085 people have been discharged. “We still have one of the lowest mortality rates in the country,” he said. The 11 districts in the north, particularly Chennai and its three neighbours logged most fresh cases and deaths, followed by the 10 districts in the South, which together clocked 2,079 fresh cases and 30 deaths. Districts in the west together logged two deaths more than the districts in the central region. But the central districts had 510 cases -- 23 more than their western counterparts. The highest number of deaths was reported in Chennai (11), while Madurai recorded eight deaths and Coimbatore, Trichy and Dindigul six each With 1,336 cases, hotspot Chennai continued to report the maximum number of cases, followed by its neighbour Tiruvallur (416). Chennai’s neighbours Chengalpet (375), Kancheepuram(330) and Tiruvallur(416) together reported 1,121 cases. Ranipet had 214, Tiruvannamalai 193, Kallakuruchi 134, Vellore 117, and Villupuram 112. This took the total number of fresh cases in the region to 2,457 and active cases to 22,779. The 10 southern districts closely followed the north with 2,079 fresh cases on Thursday. This is the highest single-day spike in cases in the region. Virudhunagar had the highest number of cases, 480, followed by Tuticorin, 415.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/a-new-high-6472-covid-19-cases-across-tn-in-one-day/articleshow/77137827.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Salem||A new high: 6,472 Covid-19 cases across Tamil Nadu in one day||CHENNAI: The number of fresh Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu surged to a highest-ever 6,472 cases on Thursday, which also saw 88 deaths taking the cumulative toll to 3,232. With the state permitting pooled testing (RT-PCR) in 21 districts, the number of people tested increased to 60,375 on Thursday compared to 58,475 on Wednesday and 50,055 on Tuesday. The number of active cases rose from 51,344 on Tuesday to 52,939 on Thursday. “Our cure rate has been very good. At least seven out of ten people recover in about two weeks,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. In the last three days, 15,085 people have been discharged. “We still have one of the lowest mortality rates in the country,” he said. The 11 districts in the north, particularly Chennai and its three neighbours logged most fresh cases and deaths, followed by the 10 districts in the South, which together clocked 2,079 fresh cases and 30 deaths. Districts in the west together logged two deaths more than the districts in the central region. But the central districts had 510 cases -- 23 more than their western counterparts. The highest number of deaths was reported in Chennai (11), while Madurai recorded eight deaths and Coimbatore, Trichy and Dindigul six each With 1,336 cases, hotspot Chennai continued to report the maximum number of cases, followed by its neighbour Tiruvallur (416). Chennai’s neighbours Chengalpet (375), Kancheepuram(330) and Tiruvallur(416) together reported 1,121 cases. Ranipet had 214, Tiruvannamalai 193, Kallakuruchi 134, Vellore 117, and Villupuram 112. This took the total number of fresh cases in the region to 2,457 and active cases to 22,779. The 10 southern districts closely followed the north with 2,079 fresh cases on Thursday. This is the highest single-day spike in cases in the region. Virudhunagar had the highest number of cases, 480, followed by Tuticorin, 415.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/a-new-high-6472-covid-19-cases-across-tn-in-one-day/articleshow/77137830.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Chennai||A new high: 6,472 Covid-19 cases across Tamil Nadu in one day||CHENNAI: The number of fresh Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu surged to a highest-ever 6,472 cases on Thursday, which also saw 88 deaths taking the cumulative toll to 3,232. With the state permitting pooled testing (RT-PCR) in 21 districts, the number of people tested increased to 60,375 on Thursday compared to 58,475 on Wednesday and 50,055 on Tuesday. The number of active cases rose from 51,344 on Tuesday to 52,939 on Thursday. “Our cure rate has been very good. At least seven out of ten people recover in about two weeks,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. In the last three days, 15,085 people have been discharged. “We still have one of the lowest mortality rates in the country,” he said. The 11 districts in the north, particularly Chennai and its three neighbours logged most fresh cases and deaths, followed by the 10 districts in the South, which together clocked 2,079 fresh cases and 30 deaths. Districts in the west together logged two deaths more than the districts in the central region. But the central districts had 510 cases -- 23 more than their western counterparts. The highest number of deaths was reported in Chennai (11), while Madurai recorded eight deaths and Coimbatore, Trichy and Dindigul six each With 1,336 cases, hotspot Chennai continued to report the maximum number of cases, followed by its neighbour Tiruvallur (416). Chennai’s neighbours Chengalpet (375), Kancheepuram(330) and Tiruvallur(416) together reported 1,121 cases. Ranipet had 214, Tiruvannamalai 193, Kallakuruchi 134, Vellore 117, and Villupuram 112. This took the total number of fresh cases in the region to 2,457 and active cases to 22,779. The 10 southern districts closely followed the north with 2,079 fresh cases on Thursday. This is the highest single-day spike in cases in the region. Virudhunagar had the highest number of cases, 480, followed by Tuticorin, 415.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/a-new-high-6472-covid-19-cases-across-tn-in-one-day/articleshow/77136008.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Percentage of active cases more in dist than Chennai||COIMBATORE:The district has 45% of its total Covid-19 cases under treatment, third only to Thoothukudi that tops the chart with 52% active patients and Virudhunagar (46.9%). The percentage of active cases is, however, higher in the district, compared to Salem (32%) and Chennai (15%). Epidemiologists say the percentage of active cases is likely to increase in the district over the next few days. Of the 2,777 novel coronavirus cases that the district has reported so far, 1,270 of them are still undergoing treatment. The high number of active cases is attributed to the recent spike. The district has been reporting more than 100 cases in the past couple of days. Jayaprakash Muliyil, epidemiologist with the National Institute of Epidemiologist, says, “Given its size, 170 to 180 cases a day is still low for the district. It will definitely soar further in the coming days, because the virus will keep spreading till half the population is infected.” It is the only district after Salem in the western region to see spike in cases during the second wave of Covid-19. Districts such as Tirupur, Erode and Namakkal, which saw surge in April, have managed to keep their daily count below 10 and active cases under 300. “No district is controlling the virus spread better than the other. It is spreading everywhere and it is the virus’ nature. The surge in cases will be noticed at some point or the other and will continue till at least 50% of the population is infected,” says Muliyil. Another reason for the surge in big cities is the dense population and the way that is spread out, say officials. Dr P Kulandaisamy, former director of public health, says, “In Kerala, 80% of the population is spread out, so the virus spread is slower. Coimbatore and Salem share more number of inter-state and inter-district borders. So, they are prone to see surge in cases.” Muliyal says in big cities like Chennai, where the population is dense, the virus spread is faster. “In Madurai and Coimbatore, where the population is comparatively more spread out, the surge is moderate.” Epidemiologists say the district needs to ramp up its bed strength and more importantly ensure they are occupied by only the right patients. “The district should start considering home isolation more,” says Dr Kulandaisamy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/percentage-of-active-cases-more-in-dist-than-chennai/articleshow/77136699.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
July 24, 2020||Kochi||Now, a quarantine centre exclusively for the police||Kochi: Ernakulam rural police has set up a quarantine centre exclusively for cops who become contacts of Covid patients. The municipality building at Karottupallikkara is being used for the purpose and already five policemen are quarantining themselves there, said a police statement. Police said that food and other amenities for the policemen are being arranged by the AR camp, Kalamassery. Officials said that policemen who don’t have the facilities for quarantining at their own homes are being given preference at the centre. Rural police chief SP K Karthick said that the arrangement was made in the wake of more policemen going in quarantine. Rural police on Thursday increased police deployment at the regions falling under the Aluva cluster and held route marches across the area. The marches were held at Choondi, Thottumukham, Kuttamassery, Uliyannoor, Kunnatheri and Kombara. According to police, the marches were a warning as well as a confident boosting measure.  “The march was a display of strength and an announcement that anyone who violates the curfew would face the consequence. At the same time, the marches aimed at telling people that the police are ready to tackle the situation,” said a senior officer.  The route marches were led by SP Karthick and Aluva DSP G Venu. “Barricades, pickets and boards announcing restrictions have been erected at various locations. Announcements using megaphones are also being held. Drone surveillance is also being held,” said an officer.  On Thursday, rural police booked 10 persons for not following social distancing and not wearing masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/now-a-quarantine-centre-exclusively-for-the-police/articleshow/77135085.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Kochi||Neuberg gets Covid-19 testing approval in Kerala||KOCHI: India’s fourth-largest pathology player – Neuberg Diagnostics Pvt Ltd – announced the receipt of approval from Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for Covid-19 testing in Kerala. Neuberg was the first to receive approval for Covid-19 testing in Ahmedabad (Neuberg Supratech), Bengaluru (Neuberg Anand), Chennai (Neuberg Ehrlich) and Pune (Neuberg AG Diagnostics). “This is our sixth lab to get ICMR approval for RT-PCR testing in the country and we have also set up a special support fund for the weaker sections of society. Through this, we will offer free of cost testing to people with a BPL ration card and appropriate doctor prescriptions,” said Group COO of Neuberg Diagnostics Aishwarya Vasudevan. “Neuberg Diagnostics in Kochi has already started collecting Covid samples. The mandatory requirement is the identity and address proof, requisition/prescription from physician with their medical registration number. We intend to adhere to the regulated timeline of 24-48 hours for reports throughout Kerala. Reporting and sample acceptance will be strictly in accordance with ICMR guidelines,” she said. “As coronavirus continues to spread globally, India finds itself between Stage-II and Stage-III of the disease spread. State & central governments are taking the right measures to curtail its spread. At this point of time, it is Neuberg’s and the healthcare fraternity’s duty to fight this pandemic, hand-in-hand with our policymakers and our people at the forefront,” she added. The Covid-19 testing in Neuberg’s labs will follow guidelines issued by ICMR and other competent government agencies. Covid–19 samples from hospitals, nursing homes, and other healthcare providers can be tested in its labs. If the patient has no travel history but is in the hospital with symptoms of respiratory illness like pneumonia, she or he can also be tested. As per the guidelines issued by ICMR for testing in private laboratories, Neuberg will provide test to an individual only when prescribed by a qualified physician, while also adhering to the sample collection and testing guidelines set by ICMR. Neuberg Diagnostics is a consortium of laboratories across India, USA, UAE & South Africa and the founding members of Neuberg consortium are: Anand Diagnostic Laboratory (Bengaluru), Supratech Micropath (Ahmedabad), Ehrlich Laboratory (Chennai), Global Labs (South Africa), and Minerva Diagnostics (Dubai).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/neuberg-gets-covid-19-testing-approval-in-state/articleshow/77135070.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||School syllabus to be cut by 20% to 40%||Ahmedabad: Keeping in view the loss in classroom teaching time due to Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown, a major reduction in the state board syllabus amounting to about 20% to even 40% is expected for primary, secondary and higher secondary students. At a meeting of Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) officials at Gandhinagar on Thursday, three different scenarios for re-opening of schools were considered. One of these options is that if schools were to re-open in September, the planning of the academic calendar and course curriculum had to be done in accordance with it. This could see a reduction of 20% of academic syllabus for the year 2020-21, said sources. “In case schools are to re-open in October, the syllabus will have to be downsized by 30%. For the third scenario, where schools are to re-open in November due to the Covid-19 crisis, the syllabus will have to be shrunk by 40% or even more,” said a source in the GSHSEB. The schools across the country have been shut since mid-March due to Coronavirus pandemic. “If the schools in Gujarat were to open before Diwali festival on November 14, the mid-term vacation would also have to be cut short,” said the source. The meeting attended by the chairperson of the GSHSEB and other officials of the state education department discussed issues like conducting exams for the academic year 2020-21. The officials will again meet after preparing a detailed report on the matter. The syllabus for the primary schools is decided by Gujarat Council of Educational Research and Training (GCERT), while in the case of secondary and higher secondary it is be done by the GSHSEB. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) recently issued a notification that it would reduce the syllabus for class 9 to class 12 students by 30%. The state government came up with new rules for introducing centralized education system from 2020-21 academic year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/school-syllabus-to-be-cut-by-20-to-40/articleshow/77136025.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Dist logs 238 new Covid cases; toll goes up to 28||Coimbatore: As Covid-19 cases continue to spiral in the district, which recorded 238 new cases on Thursday, the health department has set up another 400 beds for patients at the Codissia trade fair complex. Officials also reviewed the facilities at Mettupalayam government hospital and Hindusthan Hospital, which is allowed to admit and treat Covid-19 patients.The state, meanwhile, recorded six new Covid deaths that occurred in the district between Saturday and Tuesday, in its bulletin. With this, the toll officially stands at 28.Two of them had died within 24 hours of hospitalization on Tuesday. Both of them were suffering from diabetes. An official identified them as a 54-year-old man from Avarampalayam and a 46-year-old woman. They were admitted to the ESI Hospital. The woman had breathing difficulties as well.Another two men, who were in their 60s, had systemic hypertension, pneumonia, severe coughing and breathing difficulty. While one of them died on Sunday, two days after his admission, the other one breathed his last on Tuesday, a day after his hospitalisation. A 74-year-old woman, who had been suffering from blood pressure and pneumonia, also died on Sunday. The remaining one, a 78-year-old man, had succumbed to the virus on Saturday.Among the new cases are three primary health centre staff members. One of them is from Singanallur and another one is from Nanjundapuram. Eight people were tested positive for the virus from the jewellery making unit at Narasimanaickenpalayam, three from Ashok Nagar in Selvapuram, five from another jewellery cluster, a family of four from Poorva Nagar in Karumbukadai, seven from Kurumbapalayam near Pollachi, six from Pachapalayam Road near Chennappachetty Pudur, five from Kurichi and three from Kovaipudur. Cases were also reported from Ramanathapuram, Podanur, Madukkarai, Saibaba Colony, Peelamedu, Theethipalayam and Annur. Tirupur, meanwhile, recorded one Covid-19 death. It also logged 33 new cases, taking its tally to 600.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-logs-238-new-covid-cases-toll-goes-up-to-28/articleshow/77136705.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Puducherry||A new high: 6,472 Covid-19 cases across Tamil Nadu in one day||CHENNAI: The number of fresh Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu surged to a highest-ever 6,472 cases on Thursday, which also saw 88 deaths taking the cumulative toll to 3,232. With the state permitting pooled testing (RT-PCR) in 21 districts, the number of people tested increased to 60,375 on Thursday compared to 58,475 on Wednesday and 50,055 on Tuesday. The number of active cases rose from 51,344 on Tuesday to 52,939 on Thursday. “Our cure rate has been very good. At least seven out of ten people recover in about two weeks,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. In the last three days, 15,085 people have been discharged. “We still have one of the lowest mortality rates in the country,” he said. The 11 districts in the north, particularly Chennai and its three neighbours logged most fresh cases and deaths, followed by the 10 districts in the South, which together clocked 2,079 fresh cases and 30 deaths. Districts in the west together logged two deaths more than the districts in the central region. But the central districts had 510 cases -- 23 more than their western counterparts. The highest number of deaths was reported in Chennai (11), while Madurai recorded eight deaths and Coimbatore, Trichy and Dindigul six each With 1,336 cases, hotspot Chennai continued to report the maximum number of cases, followed by its neighbour Tiruvallur (416). Chennai’s neighbours Chengalpet (375), Kancheepuram(330) and Tiruvallur(416) together reported 1,121 cases. Ranipet had 214, Tiruvannamalai 193, Kallakuruchi 134, Vellore 117, and Villupuram 112. This took the total number of fresh cases in the region to 2,457 and active cases to 22,779. The 10 southern districts closely followed the north with 2,079 fresh cases on Thursday. This is the highest single-day spike in cases in the region. Virudhunagar had the highest number of cases, 480, followed by Tuticorin, 415.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/a-new-high-6472-covid-19-cases-across-tn-in-one-day/articleshow/77137825.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Trichy||A new high: 6,472 Covid-19 cases across Tamil Nadu in one day||CHENNAI: The number of fresh Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu surged to a highest-ever 6,472 cases on Thursday, which also saw 88 deaths taking the cumulative toll to 3,232. With the state permitting pooled testing (RT-PCR) in 21 districts, the number of people tested increased to 60,375 on Thursday compared to 58,475 on Wednesday and 50,055 on Tuesday. The number of active cases rose from 51,344 on Tuesday to 52,939 on Thursday. “Our cure rate has been very good. At least seven out of ten people recover in about two weeks,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. In the last three days, 15,085 people have been discharged. “We still have one of the lowest mortality rates in the country,” he said. The 11 districts in the north, particularly Chennai and its three neighbours logged most fresh cases and deaths, followed by the 10 districts in the South, which together clocked 2,079 fresh cases and 30 deaths. Districts in the west together logged two deaths more than the districts in the central region. But the central districts had 510 cases -- 23 more than their western counterparts. The highest number of deaths was reported in Chennai (11), while Madurai recorded eight deaths and Coimbatore, Trichy and Dindigul six each With 1,336 cases, hotspot Chennai continued to report the maximum number of cases, followed by its neighbour Tiruvallur (416). Chennai’s neighbours Chengalpet (375), Kancheepuram(330) and Tiruvallur(416) together reported 1,121 cases. Ranipet had 214, Tiruvannamalai 193, Kallakuruchi 134, Vellore 117, and Villupuram 112. This took the total number of fresh cases in the region to 2,457 and active cases to 22,779. The 10 southern districts closely followed the north with 2,079 fresh cases on Thursday. This is the highest single-day spike in cases in the region. Virudhunagar had the highest number of cases, 480, followed by Tuticorin, 415.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/a-new-high-6472-covid-19-cases-across-tn-in-one-day/articleshow/77137829.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Consumers get shock after getting inflated bills||Ludhiana: After the local administration suspended public dealing in all government offices of the district owing to rise in Covid-19 cases, local power consumers are in a state of fix as they are unable to figure out as to how they can get their complaints of inflated electricity bills sorted out. Many of them have received backdated electricity bills in which their pending amount has gone up two to three times as the amount paid for the last bill has not been deducted. Although local officials of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) have set up a ballot box at their regional offices in different divisions to receive complaints related to inflated electricity bills, it has failed to solve any consumer grievances as despite placing their complaints in the ballot box, they are not getting any sort of response from the local office of the PSPCL. Lakhu Maurya, a resident of BRS Nagar, who placed his complaint of inflated bill in the ballot box of the PSPCL at Aggar Nagar sub-division office, said “Despite paying electricity bill on time earlier, I received the back dated bill amounting to Rs 7,500 in the first of week of July. Shocked to receive the bill, I dropped a complaint inside ballot the box before the due date to get it rectified. But ever after 15 days I have not received any response. The last date for payment of bill is already over. I am not in a position to pay the huge amount,” he said. Another complainant Ramandeep Singh of Rajguru Nagar said, “Although, I paid online a bill of Rs 3,500 a few days back but within a fortnight, I have again received a bill of Rs 5,000 that forced me to step out of my home for dropping a complaint in the ballot box of the PSPCL in Aggar Nagar, but still there was no response. I have already lost by job and have been facing difficulty in managing household expenses after strict lockdown was imposed. Now, these inflated bills have further raised the stress level. The electricity department has prepared bills on the basis of wrong assessment of consumption or inclusion of previous (paid) bills, which is causing harassment to the consumer,” he said. Chief engineer of central zone, Virinder Pal Singh Saini said, “Local consumers can contact the executive engineer of the regional offices of the PSPCL on their Whatsapp number to get their complaints resolved related to inflated bills. The senior officials mentioned that the complainants need not come to the offices to drop their complaint in the ballot boxes of power corporation department as the district administration has already suspended the service of public dealing in all government offices. “Moreover, sometime details mentioned in the complaint letter are not adequate to take further action for early resolution of problems. It’s better if the complainants contact PSPCL officials directly to get their complaints resolved,” he said. Box- File complaints online or dial helpline Residents can also lodge a complaint at 1912 helpline number or just log on to Facebook page Fb.com/pspclpb and write down their complaint or issues along with their address and house number so that officials concerned could reach them easily and initiate further proceedings. “The same plan is used for people who want to register their complaint on twitter as they can visit the PSPCL’s Ttwitter handle at Twitter.com/pspclpb and register their complaint by providing proper data. On Instagram as well, the compliant service is available on Instagram.com/pspcl”. “Apart from that, toll free helpline number is also circulated by the power corporation department, which is 18001801512, to resolve any kind of complaint related to the power department,” the told chief engineer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/consumers-get-shock-after-getting-inflated-bills/articleshow/77136031.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
July 24, 2020||Chennai||Plight of workers hit by lockdown is central to this play||Chennai: When many guest workers left Tamil Nadu for their native soon after lockdown, theatre artist S Murugaboopathy found the children in the groups holding their dolls, pet dogs and birds with them in the long journey. Repeated follow-up revealed the cultural richness of many, particularly of a team which belonged to the Gondi community. They don’t have money, but they have a rich cultural tradition. Back home, Murugaboopathy started writing a script for a play based on the journey of guest workers. A couple of days ago, he finished it. The play will have characters from various parts of India and abroad, Murugaboopathy said adding that the death of workers run over by a goods train after they dozed off on the railway track in Satana village near Aurangabad and the video of the child trying to wake up his dead mother lying on a platform in Bihar moved him. “Incidents one after the other made me write the script based on the history of their migrations. Many of these guest workers are culturally rich, but they don’t have money and that’s why they go to different places to find a job. When they left, they took with them their pets too. It shows how compassionate they are,” said Murugaboopathy, founder of Manalmagudi Theatre Land in Kovilpatty. Murugaboopathy said more than a lakh Tamil workers died during the construction of the 415-kilometre railway between Thailand and Burma in 1944. “The play will have elements from the past as well as present. The idea is to expose the plight of workers. Characters will represent the brutal events of suppression and compulsion in the history of labour migration in the two-hour play,” he said. Manalmagudi Theatre Land is a contemporary non-conventional Tamil theatre troupe that experiments with theatrical content and form in terms of text, movements, properties, music, visuals and space. It navigates subaltern rituals and performances in Tamil Nadu, and politics to explore new language of theatre and transcend limits of body, space, time and performance. Even though it has won many accolades, the troupe is facing hurdles due to the lockdown. Murugaboopathy has no money left in his hand and other artists in his group have gone for daily jobs. “We are having a difficult time. Many artists have gone for daily jobs to earn a living. But I am confident that things will get better and we will bring out the play soon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/plight-of-workers-hit-by-lockdown-is-central-to-this-play/articleshow/77136040.cms||M T Saju
July 24, 2020||Ludhiana||Setback for manufacturers as PPE suit rates crash||Ludhiana: In another setback to the PPE suit manufacturers of the city, the rates of the suits have crashed further due to drop in demand and over-supply in the market. According to the manufacturers, the rates of the suits have fallen in the range of Rs 250 to Rs 300 and even less than this. Anxiety of businessmen is now increasing with each passing day as already there are doubts over the exports of the PPE suits since the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) changed the norms for export of PPE suits from India. Disheartened due to the situation, several manufacturers have now stopped manufacturing the PPE suits for the time being. Speaking on the issue, Harish Kairpal, a PPE suit manufacturer and finance secretary of the Knitwear Club, said, “The condition of PPE manufacturers is getting bad to worse. The rate of PPE suits, which was being sold for Rs 635 by manufacturers has now fallen in the range of Rs 250-300 due to a drop in the demand and huge availability of the suits in the market. What is even more shocking is that the competition between the manufacturers has become more tough and now for even for a small tender on government portals, more than 100 manufacturers turn up to compete with each other and even bid for rates below Rs 250 sometimes.” He said, “On the other hand, the unrestricted export of the PPE suits has been banned by the government and such tough conditions have been imposed by the DGFT that it is impossible for anyone to fall in the eligibility criteria and this is one of the reason that this time all applications for export got rejected.” Kairpal further added, “Due to these reasons we have now stopped further manufacturing of the PPE suits as already we have a huge amount of unsold stocks lying with us. We started the manufacturing of PPE suits only on the call given by the government, but it is really disappointing, whether its state or central government, no one helped us because of which this situation arrived that today we are heading towards bankruptcy.” According to Narinder Mittal, general secretary of Ludhiana Business Forums, “The demand for PPE suits has fell so much that now we do not even have buyers at Rs 250 per piece. The fall in the rate and demand has been caused due to panic selling by the manufacturers as there are huge stocks of unsold PPE suits lying with the manufacturers and secondly, the big textile companies too have dropped the rates of their PPE suits by almost 25-30%. Because of such volatile situation we have stopped the production of PPE suits at this moment as this will only add to our losses and it will be better to wait till the restrictions on export are fully lifted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/setback-for-manufacturers-as-ppe-suit-rates-crash/articleshow/77136041.cms||Mohit Behl
July 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Ozaki technique saves 4-yr-old heart patient in city hosp||Coimbatore: In a cost-effective way, cardiothoracic surgeons of a city hospital recreated a four-year-old child’s pulmonary artery with her own heart tissues or pericardium without the need to use a bovine graft which costs several lakhs or a homo graft costing Rs 55,000, which is not easily available. The surgeons also used a technique called the Ozaki technique to recreate the pulmonary valve, which is usually used only to recreate the aortic valve.Four-year-old Navinasri was wheeled into city-based G Kuppusamy Naidu Hospital in mid- June with severe breathing difficulty. She was referred from Thanjavur Medical College. The child, who was diagnosed with a complex congenital heart defect called Tetralogy of Fallot with Pulmonary Atresia type 2, had a history of heart problems since she was five-month-old. Tetralogy of Fallot with pulmonary atresia is a condition where the baby has a hole in between the lower chambers of the heart and the main blood vessel (the pulmonary artery, connecting the right side of the heart to the lungs was absent.)In August 2019, Navinasri was noticed by GKNM while conducting a screening camp in Thanjavur Medical College. Pediatric cardiac surgeon Dr Vijaykumar Raju noticed that her branch pulmonary arteries, which supply deoxygenated blood to the lungs, were small. “We told her parents that she needs to undergo two surgeries to cure the defect and save her life,” he said.In November, the child underwent an open-heart surgery, covered by the state comprehensive health insurance scheme, where the surgeons placed a tube between a branch of the aorta, main artery carrying blood away from the heart, and the right pulmonary artery, so that more blood flows to the lungs for purification.However, in June she again developed breathing problems and doctors realized that a clot had formed in the tube. “We also realized the presence of a large abnormal blood vessel supplying blood to the right lung,” said Dr Vijaykumar. She underwent another open-heart surgery on June 12, in the city. “We disconnected the abnormal blood vessel from the right pulmonary artery, the clot in the artery was also removed, we closed the hold in the lower chambers of the heart, we placed a conduit from the right ventricle to the right pulmonary and left pulmonary artery and the pulmonary artery was recreated,” he said.The doctor said the pulmonary and the valve was made using the pericardium, or tissue covering the heart, using Ozaki technique. “This saved them at least Rs 2 lakh,” he said.Cardio thoracic surgeons said that this could be a good example to pursue in low-income countries. “While there is a chance of the child outgrowing the valve, it is still a good cost-effective way to recreate the pulmonary valve. The challenge is to recreate the valve while keeping the child's heart open,” said Dr Anto Sahayaraj, cardiothoracic surgeon at Chennai-based Gleneagles Global health city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ozaki-technique-saves-4-yr-old-heart-patient-in-city-hosp/articleshow/77136709.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Nizam funds: Najaf told to pay Rs 48L legal costs by UK court||London: Najaf Ali Khan, grandson of Nizam VII Mir Osman Ali Khan, one of 117 heirs to the Nizam VII estate, has been ordered to pay £51,000 (Rs 48 lakh) in interim legal costs to the other parties in the famous ‘Nizam Funds’ case. Najaf Ali Khan had sought reopening of Nizam Funds case in London high court that had given a judgment ordering a £35m (Rs 333 crore) cash pot be divided between Indian government and Nizam’s grandsons, Mukarram Jah and Muffakham Jah. Mukarram Jah incidentally is the titular Nizam VIII of Hyderabad. Khan, president of the Nizam Family Welfare Association, on Thursday pleaded to have all legal costs against him – £100k (Rs 95 lakh) – waived after his application was dismissed. But judge Justice Marcus Smith refused, describing his claim as “entirely misconceived.” Smith gave him three months to pay up and said the final balance would be subjected to detailed assessment. Smith also ordered another great grandson, Himayat Ali Mirza, to pay costs to the other parties for a similarly application. Khan told the court: “My family and I always believed we have a substantial share in the fund of 30 per cent. We had no idea the administrator left such a marginal amount of £400k out of £35 million. We are still in shock. Adding these huge legal costs to it depreciates the amount. We request his lordship waive off all our costs”. Smith at Thursday’s hearing appointed PennTrust Limited as a new administrator to the Nizam VII’s English estate, despite Khan's objections that the firm was too closely linked to the old administrator Lintott, a senior lawyer, who has now retired. Khan said: “We oppose PennTtrust owing to its connection with Lintott. We want any law firm from India well versed in the Indian Muslim laws of succession. We have faced problems for the last three decades because of the mishandling of the trust and there are several cases pending in the court in Hyderabad.” The estate has only recovered £400,000 after most of the £35m cash pot that grew out of £1 million left in a London bank account by the Nizam VII at Partition was divided between India and the two princes, according to a court order. PennTrust will need to figure out who is entitled to the £400k according to Indian succession laws in circumstances where the titular Nizam VIII is not making a claim. Speaking outside court, Paul Hewitt of Withers LLP, said: “This litigation has lasted almost the entire lifetime of our client HEH VIII Nizam of Hyderabad. He wishes to have a clean break. Thus, he proposes that whatever remains of the £400,000 can be distributed to the wider members of the family waiving his right to claim that money as well on the basis of the customary law which dictates that the Nizam VII's estate passed to his heir HEH 8th Nizam.” The judge ordered that all claimants will need to put their claims in writing to the new administrator backed by paperwork so the process of deciding who is entitled to the £400k can be determined. The court heard that any litigation brought against Lintott in relation to his role in the confidential agreement or his conduct risked reducing the whole fund to nothing. Some heirs have also made applications to see the confidential agreement drawn up between India and the princes. “I am not welcoming an application for disclosure of that agreement and don’t think it should be made now or in future,” Smith said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nizam-funds-najaf-told-to-pay-rs-48l-legal-costs-by-uk-court/articleshow/77137337.cms||NAOMI CANTON
July 24, 2020||Nagpur||If Covid rules are not followed, lockdown inevitable: Mundhe||Nagpur: Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on Thursday blamed irresponsible citizens for the rise in Covid-19 cases in the city. “Unfortunately, after one-and-a-half month of Mission Begin Again, I have seen the situation deteriorating, forcing us to think of complete lockdown or curfew,” he said during an hourlong social media interaction on ‘Whether to enforce complete lockdown and curfew’.Before June 3, when Mission Begin Again was launched, the city had 400 Covid-19 cases and 11 deaths. Today, the number of positive cases is over 2,400 with 38 deaths, he said.“I have seen many violations over last one week. We will monitor for 3-4 days. If people don’t fall in line, I will implement full lockdown with curfew,” said Mundhe. He said lockdown is interim solution, “Unless we bring about behavioural change like wearing masks, following distancing etc, we cannot defeat the virus.”Mundhe also pointed out violations by two-wheeler riders, and shop owners not following odd-even formula or 7pm deadline.He warned fines on shops may be raised up to Rs50,000 to Rs1 lakh. “Criminal proceedings too can be initiated. I urge everyone to follow Covid-19 guidelines,” Mundhe said.On the festivals from August, like Bakri Eid, Rakhi, Janmashthami, Ganeshotsav etc, he said, “Government has prohibited public celebrations. Citizens should not organize gatherings.”Answering questions by citizens on private hospitals demanding advance payments, Mundhe said they can charge only prescribed rates. He also said the state has covered all people under Mahatma Jyotiba Fule insurance, to give cashless treatment.The civic chief squarely blamed private hospitals for rise in Covid-19 deaths. Analysis of 19 deaths found they were being treated at private hospitals, which ignored guidelines to inform NMC about Covid symptoms. He asked people to approach NMC’s 11 fever hospitals if they see any symptoms of Covid-19.BOXMayor calls meeting with Mundhe todayMayor Sandip Joshi has convened a meeting on Friday of office bearers and municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe at 12 noon at NMC headquarters. The meet will discuss whether NMC will impose lockdown or not. Joshi said Mundhe is speaking of imposing complete lockdown for 15 days. If curfew-like lockdown is imposed, common man will suffer, said Joshi. Instead, he suggested stricter implementation of rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/if-covid-rules-are-not-followed-lockdown-inevitable-mundhe/articleshow/77136038.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 24, 2020||Nagpur||3 youths from Amravati drown during picnic||Amravati: Three youths from the city drowned in the waters of Dharkota waterfall in Bhaisdehi tehsil of Madhya Pradesh, about 20km from Paratwada, on Thursday. Police identified the deceased as Vinay Kushwaha (18), a resident of Masanganj, Dipak Mishra (18), a resident of Jawahar Gate, and Ashish Kotecha (19), a resident of Badnera.Paratwada PI Sadanand Manner said that the incident occurred at around 2.30pm when the trio and their three other friends were on a picnic to Dharkota. The three youths drowned while bathing under the waterfall. Their friends tried helping them but to no avail. They then informed Paratwada police about the incident who rushed to the spot.Paratwada police have fished out the bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-youths-from-amravati-drown-during-picnic/articleshow/77136045.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Goa||Violators of Mormugao lockdown penalised||Vasco: The four police stations in Mormugao taluka at Verna, Dabolim, Vasco and Mormugao came down heavily on violators of the extended lockdown. From last Friday to Wednesday, 240 cases were booked and fines amounting to Rs 26,200 were collected. Superintendent of Police, South Goa, Pankaj Kumar Singh, who would visit all four police stations twice a day, said, “The police teams have done an excellent job in keeping violators at bay, especially by filtering them from the ones going on duty. Their identity cards were checked, and in a few cases inquiries were made in offices as well.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/violators-of-mormugao-lockdown-penalised/articleshow/77136713.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Covid-19 recovery rate rises to 63% in Nilgiris||UDHAGAMANDALAM: With 92 Covid-19 patients being discharged in the Nilgiris on Thursday, the recovery rate rose to 63.2% in the district. Two days ago, it was 53.6%. While the district accounts for 587 Covid-19 cases, the total number of patients recovered from the disease so far stands at 371. On Thursday, 59 people, including 30 women and two boys aged 6 and 9, tested positive for the coronavirus. While 17 positive cases are secondary contacts linked to the T.Oranalli wedding function cluster, at least 36 cases are contacts of earlier positive cases with travel history. Four people, secondary contacts of the PRO of the private needle manufacturing unit, tested positive. A 39 -year-old man after returning from Kerala and another 33-year-old man returning from Krishnagiri tested positive. Most of the cases are reported from Ooty and villages such as Manjakambai, Hosa Attubayil, Kenthorai, Adhikarattti and Melkowhatti. As many as 214 active cases are being treated at government hospitals in Ooty and Coonoor and at Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and ESI hospital in Coimbatore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/recovery-rate-rises-to-63-in-nilgiris/articleshow/77136712.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Nashik||Six-fold rise in biomedical waste generation in Nashik||NASHIK: There has been a manifold increase in the average volume of biomedical waste generated in the city every day following the Covid-19 outbreak. Currently, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) is collecting 3 tonne of biomedical waste per day. This is a six-fold rise since April, when the civic body was collecting only about 500kg of biomedical waste every day. Biomedical waste mainly includes PPE kits, gloves, surgical waste, saline bottles and a host of other items disposed by the hospitals. Officials from the civic administration said, “With the surge in the number of Covid-19 patients getting admitted to NMC-run and private hospitals in the city in June and July, the biomedical waste collection has also increased.” The NMC has roped in a private agency, which deploys 12 vehicles to collect biomedical waste from across the city. The waste is brought to a processing plant where all the waste is incinerated except the ones that can be recyled. The vehicles used are disinfected before and after collection of biomedical waste from Covid hospitals. Moreover, face masks collected from residents and hospitals are also destroyed at the biomedical plant. Civic officials said, “We have already appealed to citizens to wrap the used masks in paper and hand them over to the garbage vans.” Citizens can also deposit the used face masks to nearby civic hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/six-fold-rise-in-biomedical-waste-generation-in-nashik/articleshow/77133961.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 24, 2020||Goa||Swabs of 50 Bicholim HSS staffers drawn||Bicholim: Swab tests of around 50 staff members of a higher secondary school in Bicholim were collected on Thursday at Bicholim community health centre (CHC) after a lady teacher tested positive for Covid-19. Sources at the higher secondary school said the teacher had got herself tested after she came in contact with one of her relative who had tested positve about three days ago. After undergoing the test, the teacher did not attend duty since Monday, and on Thursday informed the school authorities that she had contracted the virus. Bicholim CHC’s health officer Dr Medha Salkar said that all the higher secondary staff had been tested and results are awaited. Meanwhile, swab tests of the police control room (PCR) van employees of the Bicholim police station were conducted on Wednesday as a constable from Tivim had tested positive. At Sakhali CHC, swab tests of 26 people from the area were collected on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/swabs-of-50-bicholim-hss-staffers-drawn/articleshow/77136747.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Goa||Another area in Baina sealed as cases spike in civic area||VASCO: Within 24 hours of the Goa Rehabilitation Board Colony at Sada being sealed late Tuesday night following a spike in Covid-19 cases there, on Wednesday night two entry points in ward 7 at Baina, near Hanuman Temple, were sealed. Mormugao deputy collector Sachin Dessai said, “There are about eight cases reported in this area of Baina. Presently, we have sealed the place to contain the spread of the virus. Police personnel have been deployed to restrict the movement of residents. We are presently monitoring the area and keeping a track of cases here. Accordingly, a decision will be taken whether there is a need to declare it a containment or micro-containment would be taken.” Ward councillor Shraddha Amonkar said that the area has been sanitised and immunity boosting tablets have been supplied to families. “We have asked people to stay indoors and home quarantine and that we will supply groceries.” Sources said that many others were found infected from the same area, but people are back after their 14 days quarantine in Covid care centres. Now, new 8 cases in three houses have been reported. With regards to the Goa Rehabilitation Board Colony at Sada, councillor Shashikant Parab said that while a few cases were initially recorded in the colony, the number eventually rose to 15. This prompted a discussion between urban development minister Milind Naik and health officials, following which five entry points to the colony were sealed in ward 3, opposite the Sada sub-jail. Parab said the colony comprises around 224 flats with at least 1,200 residents. Meanwhile, 150 residents from Chota Mangor in Mangor Hill were tested for antibodies by a team from the sub-district hospital at Chicalim, on Thursday. The health officer of the sub-district hospital, Dr Rajendra Borkar, said, “From Wednesday, of the 248 antibodies tests conducted, 45 persons demonstrated antibodies in their blood.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/another-area-in-baina-sealed-as-cases-spike-in-civic-area/articleshow/77136732.cms||Ruvina Khan
July 24, 2020||Goa||‘No date given to hear MLAs’ case due to Covid’||Panaji: Goa legislative assembly speaker Rajesh Patnekar in his reply before the Supreme Court said that due to Covid-19 pandemic, no new date was communicated to the parties for hearing the disqualification petitions looking at the safety aspects. The speaker has filed this affidavit in response to a notice issued by the apex court on a petition filed by the Congress party against him and ten of its former MLAs who joined BJP including deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavlekar and two ministers. The plea was filed seeking expediting the decision on disqualification petition filed against the legislators. The apex court is likely to hear the case on Friday. Explaining the proceedings before him, Patnekar said that during the hearing on February 13, ten MLAs made a request seeking time for filing their written statement. Hence, an opportunity was given to them and the matter was adjourned. It was informed to all the parties that the new date would be communicated, he maintained. Patnekar said the time for filing of reply by the MLAs was to expire in the month of March 2020, more particularly somewhere between March 17 and 18. Patnekar said that due to Covid-19 pandemic, a Janata Curfew was declared on March 18 and thereafter the chief minister of Goa extended the curfew in the state. Goa speaker said that with effect from March 24 the Prime Minister announced a nationwide lockdown. After lockdown 1.0 and 2.0, although gradually the restrictions in Goa towards free movement were relaxed as the state was a green zone, the situation has drastically changed now with more than 1,000 cases coming to light. “Thus, on this account and more particularly looking at the safety aspect, no fresh date was given to the parties for hearing of the disqualification petition,” he maintained. In August 2019, Congress filed a disqualification petition before speaker against the 10 rebel MLAs who quit and joined BJP in July 2019. Congress state president Chodankar had sought before the apex court that the 10 MLAs be restrained from attending assembly proceedings and also holding constitutional posts till the case is decided by the speaker. On July 10, 2019 rebel Congress MLAs led by Kavalekar had joined BJP claiming that the Congress Legislature Party had split. The remaining nine MLAs were Isidore Fernandes, Nilkanth Halarnkar, revenue minister Jennifer Monserrate, Antonio Fernandes, Francisco Silveira, Wilfred D’sa, Clafasio Dias, water resources minister Filipe Rodrigues and Atanasio Monserrate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-date-given-to-hear-mlas-case-due-to-covid/articleshow/77137149.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Some stay logged in despite shutdown call||Ahmedabad: At a time when various school management associations gave a clarion call to schools to shut down online classes as a mark of protest to a recent government order, a handful of self -financed schools in and around Ahmedabad continued online education. These schools are of the view that while the loss of classroom teaching cannot be substituted by online teaching, shutting it down entirely will only lead to a further learning loss for students amid Covid-19 crisis. On Thursday, many schools put online teaching to abeyance after the state government directed them to not collect fees from students for the time the schools remained shut in the Covid-19 lockdown period. The government has also directed the schools to not raise fees for 2019-20 academic year. Some of the schools that continued teaching online include DAV School, Mount Carmel High School, Shreyas Foundation, and Divine Child International School, among few others. “We are awaiting decision of our management (Based in New Delhi) and we will abide by whatever decision they take. No doubt, the teachers are anxious even as we have done no salary cuts. I am happy that more than 70% parents have paid the fees and they are of the view that one who is shaping our child’s future should not suffer,” said Nivedita Ganguly, principal, DAV School. “We conducted online classes on Thursday and will continue to do so as we do not want students to suffer,” said Yogesh Thanki of Shreyas Foundation. The government notification states that that educational institutions and associations are charitable organizations and the main objective of their creation is not profiteering but to fulfil the educational needs of the society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/some-stay-logged-in-despite-shutdown-call/articleshow/77136093.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Goa||South Goa collector lauds VPK body’s plan to contain outbreak||Ponda: South Goa district collector Ajit Roy applauded the initiative of the Veling-Priol-Kuncoliem (VPK) panchayat to prepare an action plan to contain the Covid-19 virus at the ground level. Roy appealed to other panchayats to follow the example of the VPK panchayat body. VPK sarpanch Pandurang Gaude and panch member Damodar Naik on Thursday submitted a copy of the panchayat’s plan to the South Goa collector, which had been prepared in consultation with Dr Madhu Ghodkirekar, the associate professor for forence medicine, Goa Medical College and Hospital. Meanwhile, the sarpanch and panchayat members managed to convince agitating villagers to allow a quarantine facility at the panchayat hall in Mardol. The villagers have now demanded that the facility be limited to residents from the panchayat’s jurisdiction, which the local body has agreed to, Gaude said. The panchayat on Sunday had resolved to convert its hall at Mardol into a quarantine facility for Covid-19 patients who are unable to quarantine themselves at home. However, a group of locals had protested the decision and had suggested that such patients be housed at an empty school building behind the panchayat office, or at the Industrial Training Institute (ITI) at Farmagudi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/south-goa-collector-lauds-vpk-bodys-plan-to-contain-outbreak/articleshow/77136722.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: CPM in poll mode after gold shock||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In a stern message to private secretaries of CPM ministers, CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan said all staff members of ministers should realise the importance of coming months and ensure that not even minor slip-ups occur in their professional and personal lives. Kodiyeri was addressing a meeting of private secretaries, the senior most members of personal staff, at AKG Centre. The meeting was convened as decided by the CPM state secretariat, which discussed the gold smuggling scandal involving M Sivasankar, former secretary to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. According to sources, Kodiyeri told the officials as elections are nearing, they should be working over-time with added diligence. Any lapse on their part would be costly as local body polls would be in October and assembly polls, early next year. The CPM state secretary reminded the officials about the code of conduct, which the party formulated in 2016 and asked them to ensure that each member of the personal staff adhered to the provisions in the code of conduct. Even a minor lapse on part of personal staff members won’t be tolerated, he is learnt to have told the meeting. Each private secretary was asked to brief about their plans for the coming months to complete the major projects in his department promise in the LDF’s election manifesto. He asked them to prepare concrete plans to implement whatever promises that remain to be fulfilled and to act as point of contact between ministers and officials. The meeting convened by the CPM state secretary triggered a controversy too as opposition found the meeting a violation of rules of business of the government. RSP leader N K Premachandran said that the attendance by government servants in a meeting at a party office convened by a party secretary is a serious breach of code of conduct of government servants. “Private secretaries are government officials holding the rank of deputy secretary and above. They are bound by code of conduct for government officials. As per clause 67, government employees are banned from directly engaging in political activities,” Premachandran said. He alleged that by allowing such a meeting, CM Pinarayi Vijayan also breached the oath of office and secrecy. Rebuffing the allegations, Vijayan said there was nothing wrong in convening such meetings. “There is no danger in such meetings. Normally, such discussions are arranged to provide inputs for better functioning of the concerned departments,” Vijayan replied to a query.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cpm-in-poll-mode-after-gold-shock/articleshow/77135127.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Parents stage protest seeking reduction in school fees||KOCHI: Even though online classes have been conducted in all CBSE schools in the new academic year since June 1, many parents are still questioning the collection of normal fees. The debate over why normal school fees should be paid for online classes between parents and teachers and demand for fee reduction continues in many schools. The latest issue happened at Viswajyothi CMI Public School, Angamaly, where more than 100 parents staged a protest in front of the school demanding a fee cut. But the school management opposes the demand saying that a fee cut has been implemented already similar to all other schools and they will not be able to pay the salary if the fee is cut further. The parents alleged many other schools under the same management have reduced the fees up to 50% and a similar policy was not implemented in Viswajyothi. Around 350 parents have submitted a memorandum to the school principal seeking fees cut but they reportedly did not get any reply. They conducted a standing protest last week. “The school is not only charging tuition fees but also the fees under other head like maintenance fee, library fees, etc. Last year, out of the Rs 14,000 term fee, only around 7,000 was tuition fees and the rest was charged for other services. How are those applicable during the lockdown? We are ready to pay the tuitions fees,” said Sijo Thomas, a parent. School principal Fr Joshy Kootumkal said they have followed the measures taken by other CBSE schools and made reductions in the fees accordingly. “There was a reduction of 17.5% in the fees of classes up to Class VII and 10% in that of classes between VIII and XII. Parents were given the option to approach the school if they needed concession. Nearly 75% of fees collected are used to pay the salary of teachers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/parents-stage-protest-seeking-reduction-in-school-fees/articleshow/77135120.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Nashik||Covid-19: Situation in Nashik not alarming, says Maharashtra minister Rajesh Tope||NASHIK: State health minister Rajesh Tope has stressed on the need for citizens to observe safety protocols to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the district. “Although postive cases are increasing in Nashik, the situation is not alarming at this juncture. Things will be brought under control,” Tope told TOI. Tope, along with NCP chief Sharad Pawar, will be in Nashik on Friday to review the situation. Both of them will hold deliberations with officials of the district administration, the municipal corporation the and zilla parishad. Tope had visited Malegaon twice in April and May when the Covid-19 outbreak was at its peak in the textile town. He had guided the local administration on how to curb the spread of the virus. Malegaon has brought the situation under control. “The feedback I have received is that a section of citizens who are flouting norms are the biggest contributors to the viral spread in Nashik,” said the minister. According to him, people were not wearing masks and not observing social distancing norms in public, thereby facilitating the spread. “Nashik residents must realize that unless they observe these safety protocols, it would be difficult to defeat the virus,” said Tope. Tope said the local authorities have to be on a “mission mode” “The authorities need to trace all sources that are linked to the spread of the virus and take remedial measures. I will be taking stock of the situation and discuss measures that need to be taken during the review meeting,” he said .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/situation-in-nashik-not-alarming-says-tope/articleshow/77133980.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Teachers stare at a bleak future||AHMEDABAD: The state government decision of allowing no fees till schools physically reopen has intensified panic and anxiety in the teaching fraternity already weighed down by extra work-hours and salary cuts. Most educators think that lack of planning and vision on part of the government is translating into suffering of educators and children. Amid all odds created by the Covid pandemic, educators are doing their best to impart education, only to end up with uncertainty. The fear of losing jobs has increased manifold. A teacher, Sudha Shah, 45, says, “I am the sole earner in a family of five and my liabilities have not reduced, but salary has gone down. I am worried that if the school says no to my services, then what will I do.” Another educator, Dipti Singh, from a school in Maninagar, says, “I have not got my salary for the past two months as management says only 35-40 per cent of students have paid fees. I am working in hope that parents will pay the fees and I will get a salary. But with this decision, I feel I will be without a job as I cannot serve without salary for long.” Niyati Desai, an educator from a school in Thaltej says, “Parents are ready to spend money at coaching classes but have a million reasons not to pay school fees, even when we put our heart and soul in grooming the children.” A reputed school on SG Road has not paid any salary to educators for the past two months. The school trustee says, “We pay salary based on fees, and no fees translate into no salary.” Pointing out that the decision was not well-thought, Preeti Parikh, an educator, says, “The government needs to understand that we educators have families and liabilities too, and this decision will kill many of us.” (Names changed)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/teachers-stare-at-a-bleak-future/articleshow/77136092.cms||Ragini Bharadwaj
July 24, 2020||Goa||22 workers at ZACL Covid care discharged||Panaji: Around 22 patients who had been admitted at the Covid care centre set up by Zuari Agro Chemicals Limited at its Jai Kisaan Club were discharged on Thursday after being declared as Covid negative. The men, mostly contract workers, were in the facility for 10 days and have now been asked to remain for seven days in home quarantine. Zuari Agro Chemicals Ltd had conducted Covid-19 tests for its contract workers through Thyrocare and had setup a Covid care centre after many of the workers tested positive. ZACL’s Jai Kisaan Club was converted into a temporary quarantined zone for Covid infected contract labour after obtaining approval from the South Goa collector, becoming the first industrial covid care centre in the state. About 160 infected contract workers were quarantined at the facility, where a full-fledged medical team was on call. “Workers who are in the Covid test centre for 10 days will be stamped for a further period of seven days of home quarantine as per the health guidelines,” said a ZACL official. The workers are being retested before being released outside the premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/22-workers-at-zacl-covid-care-discharged/articleshow/77136775.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Chennai||Gold touches Rs 50K, deposit schemes lose shine||Chennai: With gold prices touching the Rs 50,000-mark, gold savings schemes, where people deposit a sum every month for 11 months to redeem gold for the accumulated amount, are beginning to lose sheen. At present, a gram of 22 carat gold costs Rs 4,815, In January, it was around Rs 3,800. “I have been investing Rs 6,000 a month since January. I used to get 1.5 grams of gold a month, but now it is just 1.2 grams. At this rate, I may lose out on half-a-gram of gold every month for five months. I might as well withdraw the money and keep it for a rainy day,” said Suganthy S, a homemaker. Jewellers said new enrolments have decreased and there has been an increase in mid-way withdrawals. N Ananthapadnanabhan, managing director of NAC Jewellers, said 20% of their depositors have dropped out of existing schemes and there is a 60% fall in enrolments. “We need to retain these customers, so we are letting them withdraw without imposing any charges. Depositors, who are in the fourth or fifth month are withdrawing more,” he said. Some depositors like Janani Raghavan are continuing with the schemes since it is a way to save some money every month. “I deposit Rs 4,000 at Khazana Jewellers every month and I am going ahead with it because some gold is good at the end of the day as an investment,” she said. For Challani Jewellers, there have been no new enrolments in the past four months. “But less than 10% have withdrawn because it is a form of savings anyway,” said Jayantilal Challani, MD, Challani Jewellers. To keep customers intact, some jewellers such as GRT are offering flexible plans where the customer has the option to choose redemption by value of money deposited or by weight of gold. “This is a win-win situation for the depositor and we would advise them to continue investing regardless of the increase in gold price,” said G R Anand, MD, GRT Jewellers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/gold-touches-rs-50k-deposit-schemes-lose-shine/articleshow/77136083.cms||Aparna Desikan
July 24, 2020||Goa||Goa: Former sex workers join Covid battle on the frontline||PANAJI: Joining in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic at the frontline along with health workers and police, among others, are victims of commercial sexual exploitation who have been rehabilitated by the NGO Arz (Anyay Rahit Zindagi). These women, who run the Swift Wash laundry, have taken up the task of laundering bed linen of Covid-19 patients. The laundry staff collect the soiled linen from Covid care centres, which they then treat before sending it to their mechanised unit for washing and ironing. In times when fear of the virus has sent people indoors and given rise to stigmatisation of Covid patients and when even those coming from areas that are hotspots for the virus find themselves being discriminated against, the staff of the laundry continue with their work bravely. “We have the same fears as others. But we have gone through rigorous training on how to protect ourselves and how to treat the laundry from Covid care centres,” one staff with the laundry told TOI. She said that they have been provided with vitamin tablets, protective gear such as masks, gloves, shields and PPE. Another girl said that she was proud of being able to contribute to the fight against Covid by doing the laundry of the doctors, nurses and patients of Covid Care centres. “I do not discriminate. I believe that it is an illness, which can happen to anyone. For me the doctors, nurses, police posted at the Covid care centres are role models. They are also risking their lives to save others,” said the girl tasked with collection and delivery. Arz is the NGO appointed by Goa police as the nodal NGO of their anti-human trafficking unit. It’s rehabilitation unit, Swift Laundry has been actively involved in providing laundry services to quarantine and Covid care centres in Goa in collaboration with the North and South Goa collectors. Director of ARZ Arun Pandey said, “We are happy that today the employees of Swift Wash are contributing in the fight against Covid-19 by doing the laundry of Covid care centre in North Goa and South Goa.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/former-sex-workers-join-covid-battle-on-the-frontline/articleshow/77137159.cms||Murari Shetye
July 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala gold smuggling case: NIA questions M Sivasankar for 4 hours||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is probing the gold smuggling case along with Customs, interrogated former secretary to the chief minister and IAS officer M Sivasankar here on Thursday. The officer, who is under suspension, was interrogated for four-and-a-half hours by a team of NIA officers who had come from Kochi. The agency sleuths issued a notice to Sivasankar by noon on Thursday, on the basis of which the officer appeared at the NIA’s temporary office at the Police Club in Peroorkada by 4 pm. The focal point of interrogation was to find out whether Sivasankar had any role in the smuggling incident apart from the friendship he acknowledged he had maintained with two of the key accused in the case. It is reliably learnt that NIA had gathered all details regarding trips of Sivasankar both inside the country as well as abroad before questioning him. Inputs gathered from the interrogation of the three accused - Sarith P S, Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair -- were also used by officers to crosscheck Sivasankar’s version. The NIA suspects that the smuggled gold was being used to fund some extremist elements. Earlier, Customs had interrogated Sivasankar for close to nine hours on July 14. It had become clear that Sivasankar had a key role in renting out an apartment for Swapna, where the three main accused had gathered to plan the smuggling. Expanding their investigation to the Secretariat, NIA officials have sought CCTV visuals from the secretariat to check whether the accused had visited Sivasankar at his office. NIA officials sought visuals from the general administration department’s housekeeping section and the department has replied that the visuals will be handed over to the agency with the permission of the chief secretary. CM Pinarayi Vijayan, when asked about NIA seeking visuals in the Secretariat, said that the probing agency has all the freedom to do it the way it wants. From the interrogation of the key accused, it had become clear that the three had maintained close contact with Sivasankar. Also, the two-member committee consisting of chief secretary and finance secretary had found that Sivasankar had close contact with Swapna and helped her in secure a job as operations manager at SpacePark under Kerala State IT Infrastructure Limited, even when she was working as secretary of UAE consular-general.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/nia-questions-sivasankar-for-4hrs/articleshow/77135139.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Nashik||NMC appoints 2 govt doctors to check 400 Covid treatment bills||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has appointed two government doctors to inspect more than 400 bills of Covid-19 patients to prevent overcharging. The civic body had collected the bills randomly from 32 private hospitals in the city engaged in Covid-19 treatment.The state government has fixed the rate for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals. But there have been some complaints of overcharging in private hospitals. Taking cognizance of the matter, municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game had directed the officials to get auditors to inspect the bills.“The auditors were facing some technical problems,” said the NMC officials. The doctors will be able to clarify if the doses of medicines given to patients were needed and address other queries that the auditors have, said the officials. “The two doctors appointed are expected to start examining the bills in a day or two. We will take action against the hospitals if they are found overcharging the patients,” they added. The NMC had received 10 complaints of overcharging and had served show-cause notices. Three hospitals have responded to the notices so far. The NMC has also displayed boards on Covid treatment rates at all private hospitals. These boards include the NMC’s 24X7 helpline number (9607601133) to allow people to lodge complaints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-appoints-2-govt-doctors-to-check-400-covid-treatment-bills/articleshow/77134039.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 24, 2020||Vadodara||Fee row: Self-financed schools log out of online classes||Vadodara: In the latest bout of tug of war between self-financed schools and state government, students and parents have become the victims. A day after the state asked schools not to collect tuition fees till they are closed, the self-financed schools suspended online education from Thursday.On Wednesday many parents having their wards in the unaided private schools received circulars on Wednesday night informing that they will be calling off the online classes from Thursday. Circulars issued by some of the schools in Vadodara city stated that they are calling off the classes as Gujarat government has refused to recognize ‘online teaching’. In fact, the government’s resolution mentions that it accepts central government’s guidelines on ‘digital and online education’ and it also asked all schools, be it government, grant-in-aid and self-financed, to follow guidelines.The circulars sent by schools did not go down well with parents. “We have been paying fees for all these years and in time, but in this extraordinary situation when many of us are facing economic trouble, the schools should not have abruptly stop online education,” said a parent. Another parent said, “Schools always have surplus funds which can be used during emergencies. The operational cost for schools have, anyway, reduced and many teachers have been laid off while salaries of others have been slashed.”“Nowhere the government has mentioned that online education should be stopped. But the schools through its letters and messages are spreading lies and creating confusion. The schools should immediately resume online education,” said a parent Jignesh Rao, who said that he will start a digital movement against self-financed schools and the state government.“Majority of schools in Vadodara do not have any reserve funds. If fees aren’t paid, there is no way we can pay even 50 to 70 per cent salaries to teachers. If not us, government should at least have some apathy with teachers,” said Sheetal Mehta, president of Vadodara Shaher Shala Sanchalak Mandal. He added that as of now schools have stopped online education, but if government will not change its stand, schools will not even be able to pay property tax and may even shut down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fee-row-self-financed-schools-log-out-of-online-classes/articleshow/77135570.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad among world’s top 20 surveilled cities||HYDERABAD: With almost 30 cameras for every 1,000 people, Hyderabad has made it to the world’s top 20 most surveilled cities. It has got the 16th position. Hyderabad and London are the only cities outside China to make it to the top 20, according to Comparitech, a consumer portal which analysed public CCTV cameras in the 150 most densely populated cities in the world. The researchers said, “Globally, there are already 770 million cameras in use, with 54% of these being in China. We found little correlation between the number of public CCTV cameras and crime or safety.” Comparitech collated data from several government, police and public resources and reports. World’s most populated cities, such as Mumbai, are not in top 20. Delhi at 33 and Chennai at 21 made it to top 50. Telangana Police IT cell deputy superintendent of police K Srinath Reddy said, “There are 3 lakh cameras in Hyderabad police commissionarate limits, and Rachakonda and Cyberabad have one lakh cameras each. If the entire Hyderabad urban city is considered, the number of cameras would be 4.5 lakh. The population of Hyderabad city was taken as around one crore by the researchers but if Hyderabad city is considered, it would be around 80 lakh and three lakh cameras. So, the number of cameras per person would be higher.” He added that around 60 to 70 cameras are linked to police networks. “The rest are separate nodes. Depending on the need, we take feed from them,” he added. “Cameras are set up not only from government funds but also as part of corporate social responsibility and community participation.” Besides, Hyderabad police have set up facial recognition systems at Secunderabad, Nampally and Kachiguda railway stations as well as at Imlibun bus station and Jubilee bus station. Privacy advocates have been critical of the facial recognition system. Srinivas Kodali, data security researcher, said, “Hyderabad has a history of pioneering e-governance in India,” he says. “At the same time, the twin blasts of 2007 right opposite the secretariat spooked the authorities into installing cameras everywhere. It’s unfortunate they are using facial recognition even for petty offences. It has become dangerously dystopian that you can’t evade these cameras anymore in the city.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-among-worlds-top-20-surveilled-cities/articleshow/77137372.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
July 24, 2020||Nashik||Lockdown in 4 Nandurbar towns till July 30||Nashik: Four main towns in the tribal-dominated Nandurbar district — Nandurbar, Shahda, Nawapur and Taloda — went under lockdown for eight days beginning Thursday. It will be lifted on midnight of July 30. District collector Rajendra Bharud ordered the lockdown following increasing number of Covid-19 cases from these four urban centres. Nandurbar district has, so far, recorded 414 positive cases. Of them, 138 are active. Till now, 20 patients have succumbed to the infection. “The administration took a decision to enforce lockdown in these four towns as there were 45 new positive cases reported in a single day recently. The bulk of these cases were from the urban areas,” the officials added. All shops selling non-essential items would remain closed. Milk vendors have been allowed to function from 7am to 9am, while pharmacies can operate normally. Petrol pumps would be allowed to supply fuel to vehicles involved in essential services. Shops selling agricultural products would be allowed to function for limited hours too. “The administration has also restricted functioning of shops in six big villages of the district which have a dense population,” added officials. The collector has warned of legal action against those violating the lockdown rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/lockdown-in-4-nandurbar-towns-till-july-30/articleshow/77134066.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Goa||Doctors work overtime to contain virus in Chimbel||PANAJI: As Tiswadi taluka witnesses a gradual surge in Covid-19 reports with more than 100 active cases, medical personnel are putting out all stops to battle the outbreak. Doctors are working round the clock to contain the spread of Covid in Indiranagar, Chimbel to ensure that it doesn’t spiral into another Mangor Hill. In Panaji too, the authorities – urban health centre and the Corporation of City of Panaji (CCP) are working to tackle the spread of coronavirus. Testing is being carried out after a spike in cases three days ago. CCP on Thursday sealed a building near the fish market as some persons tested positive on Wednesday. Sources said that ten positives couldn’t be shifted to Covid care facilities on Wednesday as centres were full. Booth level officers (BLO) and the mamlatdar were told to monitor the positives who were shifted on Thursday. A large Covid care centre at Shyama Prasad Mukherjee stadium is on the verge of completion. “It will cater to around 200 asymptomatic positives. Depending on the SOPs for asymptomatic patients to be kept at home, they will be admitted to the centre. Provisions for toilets are still underway,” a health official said. Currently, patients in Tiswadi are being transferred to Covid care centres even in Shiroda There are 65 active cases in Indiranagar, Chimbel, where 45 have already recovered. Wards 4 and 11, where more than 40 cases have recovered, have an equal number of active positive cases. Unlike Mangor Hill, the active cases are restricted to only three wards with stray cases in two other wards Besides aggressive contact tracing, testing and isolation, the Chimbel primary health centre is creating awareness, appealing to symptomatic people to get tested. “We are working hard, but we also urge people with fever and cough to get themselves checked. We want to detect symptoms in patients as early as possible. We can treat and isolate them early. We find out about some symptomatic patients only when they go to GMC,” said Dr Jude D’Souza, in-charge of the primary health centre in Chimbel. BLOs and panch members have been roped in to help residents get consulted in the OPD at the government primary school Kirlawada, and then get tested in a systematic manner. The health centre has designed posters in Hindi for the residents, asking them to immediately get in touch with their booth level officer (BLO) via text messages or calls, and provide their name, address and phone number for better coordination. It is not only the nature of the denseness of the population that makes containing Covid difficult, the administration and police have also had a tough time dealing with law and order situations in the wards, two of which are being contained. The Chimbel health centre’s jurisdiction extends to Taleigao, St Cruz, Merces and Curca. The doctors run the OPD at Chimbel on Tuesday, Wednesday, Saturday and at Casa do Povo, the old panchayat Taleigao on Monday and Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/doctors-work-overtime-to-contain-virus-in-chimbel/articleshow/77136777.cms||Lisa Monteiro
July 24, 2020||Mumbai||70% Covid patients on Favipiravir trial have improved: Glenmark||MUMBAI: Glenmark Pharmaceuticals announced on Wednesday that phase three of the Favipiravir clinical trials has demonstrated a marked improvement in curing mild-to-moderate Covid infections, with 70% patients reportedly achieving clinical cure. The open label, randomized and multicenter clinical trial, conducted on 150 patients across seven hospitals, evaluated the efficacy and safety of Favipiravir and its standard supportive care (Favipiravir treatment arm), when compared to standard supportive care alone (control arm). All the patients had mild to moderate symptoms and had tested positive within a 48-hour window by RT-PCR. Around 70% of the patients in the Favipiravir treatment arm achieved clinical cure by the fourth day, which was statistically significant when compared to 44.9%, observed in the control arm, a company statement says. Results from the phase three trial showed numerical improvements in the primary efficacy endpoint, with 28.6% faster viral clearance in the overall population as measured by the median time until cessation of oral shedding of virus in the Favipiravir treatment arm. Patients in the Glenmark Favipiravir clinical trial received Favipiravir tablets of 3,600 mg (1,800 mg twice a day- on day 1) and 1,600 mg (800 mg twice a day on day 2 or later) for up to 14 days, along with the standard supportive care. The most commonly observed side-effect was increased uric acid (12 patients in the Favipiravir treatment arm and zero in the control arm), but most resolved on the first follow up. Glenmark defended the pricing of its Covid-19 drug, FabiFlu (Favipiravir), on July 21, saying that it’s lower when compared to other countries. In a response to the Drugs Controller General of India seeking clarification on the pricing of the “Covid-19 drug”, the company said both clinical trials and restricted use approval were preceded by multiple dialogues, deliberations and consideration before a subject expert committee constituted by the ministry of health and family welfare. The company plans to submit the clinical trial data for publication in a peer-reviewed journal in the coming weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/70-covid-patients-on-favipiravir-trial-have-improved-glenmark/articleshow/77130632.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Goa||Priests dig graves during pandemic||PANAJI: Covid times call for Covid measures. When their grave digger (ped’do) of two decades suffered a slip disc and a replacement failed to show up, two priests and a seminarian got their hands dirty and dug a grave for a child parishioner in Tivim on Wednesday. “Santan the grave digger was on sick leave and another man we called didn’t make it. We decided to get the work done between the three of us,” parish priest of St Christopher Church Fr Mariano Silveira told TOI. It was a team effort involving Silveira, assistant parish priest Fr Jollyson Fernandes and seminarian Aliston Faleiro. The word wouldn’t have got out if it weren’t for a neighbour of the deceased noticing the priests sweating it out. She called for reinforcements but the job was already done. The news soon spread on social media with the church committee members scolding the priests for not asking them for help. “The funeral had to take place. The family was ready. We felt it was our duty to ensure it went smoothly. We did it out of love for the boy. We considered it an act of sacrifice and prayer,” Silveira said. All churches have traditionally had a dedicated grave digger ped’do and it was almost unheard of for a parish priest to be found doing the work. Sources told TOI the priests have done it for a couple of funerals over the past few days. “These are Covid times. We can’t say what’s going to happen. We must be ready for anything,” he added. With no masses celebrated for the public ever since the first lockdown, the priests with more time on their hands have been engaging in more gardening work than usual. “Our Tivim parish so vast and famous with so many members in different faculties were unable to help last evening,” one parishioner posted on social media. ...”Now the crucial part arises! Who is going to dig the grave, Santan being on sick leave cannot be recalled. Now who do you think did the digging?...Surprise!...” read the message that went viral on social media||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/priests-dig-graves-during-pandemic/articleshow/77137168.cms||Lisa Monteiro
July 24, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Customs units lock horns on officers’ transfer||KOCHI: Even as the customs probe into the smuggling of gold through the diplomatic channel at Trivandrum International Airport has been making a steady progress and 16 suspects have already been arrested, the two customs commissionerates in the state seem to have locked horns over transfer of officers. The trouble started after the names of eight officers who were on deputation at the Commissionerate of Customs (Preventive) (CCP), which is probing the controversial case, appeared in a transfer list issued by Mohammed Yousaf, Commissioner of Customs House on Wednesday. The commissioner of CCP, Sumit Kumar was reportedly not kept in loop over the transfer of the officers. Even as sources say the transfers wouldn’t have had a major impact on the investigation into the smuggling case as only two superintendents who were associated with the probe were included in the list, the CCP is learnt to have taken up the issue with higher-ups. The order also states it has been issued with concurrence of the chief commisioner. Sources with the Customs House Cochin, however, played down the issue. “It was a routine order, which was long overdue. There was nothing special about it. Anyone can make allegations, there is nothing much we can say about it,” said a top officer with the Customs House. “The transfer list has nothing to do with the core team probing the smuggling case and no one among them has been moved out. One or two superintendents who had collected a few statements are included in the list, that is all,” said an officer. But sources confirmed that six superintendents and two preventive officers who were working with the research and investigation unit of the CCP were in the transfer list and that it is the research and investigation unit which is conducting the probe into the smuggling case. “CCP should have been consulted before making such transfers. What was the urgency in this? How would they know who among the officers are valuable to the probe and who aren’t, when they have not consulted the CCP commissioner? Also, in the middle of an investigation, shouldn’t the CCP commissioner have a say on who should come to the R&I unit as well, especially considering the influence that the smuggling syndicate is known to have among some officers,” said an official source. Both commissioner Sumit Kumar and commissioner Mohammed Yusuf refused to make an official comment on the issue. Sources, however, said the transfers might get delayed as the CCP was not yet willing to relieve the officers listed in the order even as there are rumours that the order might itself be put on hold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/customs-units-lock-horns-on-officers-transfer/articleshow/77135187.cms||Disney Tom
July 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s water storage capacity to be enhanced||CHANDIGARH: The engineering department of the Chandigarh municipal corporation has floated around Rs 38-crore tender to enhance the city’s water storage capacity for one day. Besides other works, complete modification of the existing water storage tanks is the most crucial work in the entire project and therefore, a successful bidder will be given sufficient time of two years to complete the project as per the laid down specification, norms and related tender conditions. The work will be regularly monitored by the senior officers concerned of the public health wing of the MC. Since the tender cost of the project is around Rs 38 crore, the Chandigarh administration had already given around Rs 26 crore for the project last year to the civic body authority. The rest of the amount will be paid by the Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) and the board of directors of the CSCL had recently approved the amount in a meeting and only after that the MC completed the exercise to prepare specification of the tender and floated the same to get a successful bidder. “Currently, there are total eight water storage tanks at the water works in Sector 39 and as per the project, only these eight storage tanks will be modified and their height and width will be increased as per requirement so that more water can be stored. Earlier, there was a plan to construct new water tanks for storage, but it was discussed and decided after physical exercise that the open spaces at the water works of Sector 39 can be used for other purposes in the future and therefore only these existing tanks can be modified and their areas can be increased to enhance the water storage capacity,” said an engineering official of the MC. “Water proofing and leakage proofing of all the existing tanks is a crucial work and the same has been put in the tender document. For the improvement of the existing structures of the tanks and preparation of the tender document, we have also hired an independent consultant,” he added. According to the records of the engineering wing of the MC, the existing water storage capacity of the city is merely 48 MGD, which will be increased to 92.23 MGD. The city is currently receiving 90 MGD water supply from Bhakra daily. The city doesn’t have adequate water storage capacity, therefore in case of any breakdown, residents of the city have to deal with acute water crises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-floats-rs-38-cr-tender-to-enhance-water-storage-capacity/articleshow/77136113.cms||Deepak Yadav
July 24, 2020||Goa||Parts of Arlem ward of Raia declared containment zone||Margao: After 21 members of 7 families residing in Arlem, Raia, tested positive for Covid-19, South Goa collector Ajit Roy on Thursday issued an order declaring certain parts of Arlem (ward 1) of Raia as containment zone and the rest of the ward as buffer zone. The order was issued under provisions contained in the Disaster Management Act 2005 and Epidemic Diseases Act 1897. The areas extending from the masjid at Arlem to the boundary wall of White House (open air hall), from White House hall to below hill cross, below hill cross to near Mehboob’s house, in ward 1 of Raia panchayat constitute the containment zone. As is the action plan for containment zones, screening of suspects, testing of suspected cases, quarantining, isolation, social distancing and other public health measures will be enforced in the area. Deputy collector and SDM-II Salcete, Dy SP Margao, health officer of Loutolim PHC, deputy director of panchayats, South Goa, fire station officer, Margao, Salcete mamlatdar, inspector of civil supplies, Margao and executive engineer PWD, Fatorda constitute the rapid response team formed for the containment zone. Sources said that the district administration was also considering enforcing measures to contain the outbreak in Gogol as well as in the two municipal markets of Margao. Covid positive cases continued to rise in Margao with Thursday recording 5 more people testing positive. Cases spiked in areas coming under the jurisdiction of the Cortalim primary health centre with 23 more people testing positive for the virus, thereby taking the tally of Covid infected people in the area to 400.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/parts-of-arlem-ward-of-raia-declared-containment-zone/articleshow/77136782.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Goa||Tivim panch tests +ve, office shut||Saligao: The office the Tivim panchayat has been shut after a lady panch member from Cansa tested positive. The sanitisation of the panchayat building was carried out on Thursday by personnel of the Mapusa fire station. “Swab samples of all panchayat staff and panch members have been collected by Colvale primary health centre. The reopening of the panchayat office will depend on the test reports. We have put up a notice stating the staff of the panchayat will work from home and if anyone wants to inward their correspondence they can do so by sending an email to vptivim@gmail.com,” said sarpanch Sandeep Kauthankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tivim-panch-tests-ve-office-shut/articleshow/77136785.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Nashik||Dhule GMCH gets medical council nod for PG courses||Nashik: The Dhule Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) has got the permission to conduct postgraduate courses from the Medical Council of India (MCI).The Shree Bausaheb Hiray Government Medical College and Hospital, which was established in 1989, has got the permission to conduct the PG courses in 11 disciplines.“In all, 46 seats have been permitted for post graduate courses in the Dhule-based Government Medical College Hospital, (GMCH). Admissions for 35 seats have already been confirmed,” said Pallavi Saple, the dean of GMCH-Dhule.The hospital has been actively following the procedure for getting the permission from MCI to conduct the PG courses and has got the permission after completing all the formalities. The GMCH is spread over 40,928 sqmt and with more than 600 faculty and staff, the college covers more than 11,000 patients in OPD every year.“We have good campus at Government College, Dhule and our building is also under construction nearby. There is no dearth of facilities or infrastructure or even faculties required for the PG courses as only after the availability of all these facilities the MCI gives letter of permission to run the courses,” Arun More, GMCH MD, said. The facility will be the best available around to provide medical help to those in North Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dhule-gmch-gets-medical-council-nod-for-pg-courses/articleshow/77134098.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 24, 2020||Rajkot||Four held in two graft cases||Rajkot: Four persons were held while taking bribe in two separate cases reported from Surendranagar and Rajkot on Thursday. In Surendranagar, Yash Dave (31) and Tulsi Parmar (62), were arrested for taking Rs 7,000 from the complainant at Bahumali Bhavan. “The accused had demanded bribe to pass his application to build a house on his agricultural land. While Dave is a junior town planner, Parmar is a retired assistant town draft man,” said Z G Chauhan, inspector with Surendranagar anti-corruption bureau (ACB). In Rajkot, Deepak Jadav (46), sanitary labourer, and Nikunj Rathod (21), apprenticeship (sanitary inspector), were arrested for accepting Rs 300 bribe from the complainant to get him food license from Rajkot Municipal Corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-held-in-two-graft-cases/articleshow/77135195.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Chandigarh||DSC constable shoots himself||tnnChandigarh: A 41-year-old constable of Defence Security Corps (DSC) allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself at N Area, Behlana, on Wednesday night.Police said no suicide note was recovered from the crime scene.The samples of the victim, Manoj Kumar, a resident of Jharkhand, were sent for Covid-19 test and found positive. Sector 31 police station SHO Paramjit Kaur Shekhon said, “Manoj was on sentry duty from 8am to 10pm at Army transit camp in N Area. Before calling it a day, Manoj allegedly shot himself with his service gun around 9.30pm.” His colleague and other Armymen reached the spot on hearing the gunshot. They rushed him to Command Hospital, where he succumbed around 2am.Sector 31 police have recorded the statements of his colleague.The post-mortem will be conducted on Friday, when his wife reaches the city. Police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dsc-constable-shoots-himself/articleshow/77136118.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Goa||Covid facility at GSL’s Sancoale unit||Panaji: Covid care centres across the state are filling up rapidly due to the spurt in cases. The state government has now approached Goa Shipyard Limited (GSL) with a proposal to set up a care centre at GSL’s Sancoale unit. A team from the state government and GSL, along with panchayats minister Mauvin Godinho inspected the Sancoale unit recently. The final decision though is yet to be taken, officials said. Due to paucity of beds at existing care facilities, many individuals who have tested positive for Covid-19 continue to remain at home without medical monitoring. “This proposal has come from the government’s side, and we said we are ready with the facility. The inspection was carried out and the final call will be taken by the government. The collector will notify the facility,” a GSL source said. Expressing satisfaction with the available facilities, Godinho said, “It is a clean place with toilets and air-conditioning. A minimum of 50-60 beds can come here, along with facilities for doctors, nurses and support staff.” He said that with asymptomatic cases on the rise, the state plans to create more such facilities to care for those affected by the pandemic. “We are still waiting for the graph to peak. We expect this to happen by July,” Godinho said. Zuari Agro Chemicals Limited too has started its own covid care facility for its workers who test positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-facility-at-gsls-sancoale-unit/articleshow/77136800.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Goa||Covid cases in Anjuna jump to 5||Saligao: The number of Covid-19 cases in Anjuna jumped to five when a taxi driver from Panvel, Maharashtra, tested positive for the virus on Thursday. The village reported its first case after a woman working in a hotel tested positive. Health officer of Siolim primary health centre (PHC), Dr Sadhana Shetye said that following the first case, contact tracing and swab testing was carried out. Two men from Gumalvaddo who were working at the hotel also tested positive. Deputy sarpanch of Anjuna Sheetal Naik said that a labourer working at a construction site in Vagator has also contracted the virus. “The panchayat has carried out sanitisation in the wards where the people have tested positive,” said Naik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-cases-in-anjuna-jump-to-5/articleshow/77136790.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Kozhikode||Under fire, cops withdraw ‘background check’ notice||Kozhikode: Kanhangad police has withdrawn the controversial notice issued to mosque committees asking them to check the background of people before appointing them as staff in madrassas and other institutions. The notice was issued in the backdrop of the sexual abuse of a 16-year-old girl by her father who is also a madrassa teacher at Nileshwar. The notice was withdrawn taking into consideration the opposition from some corners in the Muslim community. But the police say their intention was only to make the people aware of the situation. Confirming the withdrawal of the notice, Kasaragod district police chief Shilpa D said the police’s aim was to gather information. The notice was served on the mosques under the jurisdiction of Kanhangad DSP. A police officer said the move backfired with a section unleashing a campaign against the police. Some had questioned the legal validity of such a notice and why it was confined to Kanhangad alone. Questions were raised as to why only Muslim institutions were targeted. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/under-fire-cops-withdraw-background-check-notice/articleshow/77135205.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Marine police given more powers: Jadeja||Ahmedabad: MoS (home) Pradeepsinh Jadeja said on Thursday that the Fishing Industry Notification, 2020, has been issued for better protection of the 1,600km-long coastline of Gujarat. Jadeja said fishermen often go close to Pak waters while hunting for a fish named ‘Lal Pari’ and get abducted by Pakistani security agencies. The issue of kidnapping of Indian fishermen will be addressed. “To stop such activities, strict action need to be taken against errant boat-owners, and this is why the notification has been issued,” Jadeja said. The minister added that to increase coastal safety, Marine police have been given powers to search and seize any vessel on the coastline. “These powers have been given to officers of the rank of sub-inspector and above,” Jadeja said. Jadeja also said that the notification will help to punish fishermen from other Indian states intruding into Gujarat’s waters and hurting the interests of local fishermen. “Action against such boats that come from outside the state is necessary, and this notification will allow fines to be imposed on boats from other states,” Jadeja added. The minister said boats from other states can be now fined up to Rs 1 lakh or five times the value of their catch. “For this fine, powers have been given to local sub- divisional magistrate. There are also provisions for appeal,” Jadeja said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/marine-police-given-more-powers-jadeja/articleshow/77136129.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Salem||Salem farmers protest green corridor project||SALEM: Holding black flags, farmers from Kuppanur, Poolavari, Nalikkalpatty, Vattakadu and Ramalingapuram villages in Salem on Thursday protested the Salem-Chennai green corridor project. They raised slogans for an hour against both the central and state governments. One of the protesters, K Arumugam, of Kuppanur said the farmers in Salem, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Tiruvannamalai and Kanchipuram districts will not end their protests until the central government withdraws all the cases pertaining to green corridor expressway project. “We will not allow the central and state governments to bring the green corridor expressway project,” he said. Farmers in a few villages in Salem and Dharmapuri districts gagged their mouths and tied their hands with clothes during the protest. Recently, the central government had approached the Supreme Court urging it to give verdict in the green corridor case at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/salem-farmers-protest-green-corridor-project/articleshow/77136788.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Goa||‘Goa plans to hold municipal polls on October 18’||The state government has proposed to the Goa state election commission (SEC) to hold elections to the 11 municipal councils on October 18 but is yet to suggest any dates for the zilla panchayat polls. “The tenure of 11 municipal councils gets over by November 4. We have to hold elections at least 15 days prior to the expiry of the tenure. So, the government has suggested October 18 for holding the elections,” the state election commissioner R K Srivastava told reporters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-plans-to-hold-municipal-polls-on-oct-18/articleshow/77137170.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Lucknow||‘Donate money in charity if you can’t perform qurbani’||LUCKNOW: Imam of Aishbagh Eidgah, Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali, on Thursday issued an 18-point advisory ahead of Bakrid, appealing to Muslims to perform ‘qurbani’ (animal sacrifice) at their homes while following Covid-19 related health and government guidelines. The cleric said that whosoever can afford qurbani is obligated to do so, but given the pandemic, if containment zone restrictions and procuring an animal is impossible, then the alternative way is to donate money to the needy. He added that those who perform ‘Nafil qurbani’ (done in the name of the Prophets, deceased persons, Muslim community etc) in addition to their own, should not perform nafil qurbani this year but donate money set aside for it in charity. “Qurbani is a means of worshipping Allah and is the Sunnah of Prophets Ibrahim and Ismael. So it should be done within legal boundaries. This year Bakrid should be celebrated with responsibility, just as Ramzan, Eid and Shab-e-Bara’at were observed,” Maulana Khalid said. “Those living in the red zone during the three days of Eid, should get the qurbani done at another place by sending money. At places where animals cannot be procured or law does not permit, people there should also follow the same. If even at the second place, qurbani is not possible for some reason, then donation has to be made to the poor,” he explained. “Masks should be worn, not more than five people should be present, and sanitization should be done during qurbani. Meat to be distributed should be well packed, animal remains should only be disposed of in municipal bins and blood be buried in mud to double up as plant fertilizer,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/donate-money-in-charity-if-you-cant-perform-qurbani/articleshow/77136802.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Rajkot||Two stray dogs thrashed to death in Porbandar town||Rajkot: After two motorcycle borne assailants shot dead a dog in Dhoraji of Rajkot district on Wednesday afternoon, two persons allegedly beat two dogs to death with bats and iron pipes in Porbandar on the same day evening. The accused were arrested on Thursday. Police said the accused, Murtuza Sanghar and Firoz Sherwani, allegedly committed the crime in Memanvad locality of Porbandar.“We have booked the accused under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and sections 429 and 114 of Indian Penal Code, dealing with the mischief by killing or maiming animals and being party to the crime,” said J L Majethia, the head constable with Kirti Mandir police station. The accused have been booked on the complaint of Amana Qureshi (61). “After hearing the commotion, when I came out of my house, I saw that armed with bats and iron pipes, Sanghar and Sherwani were chasing three dogs. The duo had clamped their feet on the mouths of the dogs and had starting beating them up. After the dogs were rendered unconscious, the duo tied them up with ropes and dumped them in a garbage heap,” said Qureshi in her FIR. “While the two dogs succumbed to their injuries, one dog survived which we took to our centre, where we treated it for its injuries,” said Jiva Ratadia, a member of Group for Birds and Animals, an NGO. During their interrogation, the accused said as the dogs used to attack their goats, they had decided to kill them. Of the accused, Sanghar is the son of Haji Ibrahim Sanghar, the president of Porbandar BJP minority cell. Cases of cruelty against animals, especially dogs, have suddenly spiked in Saurashtra and Kutch. The police are yet to nab the two persons who while riding a motorcycle shot a dog to death from a 12 bore double barrel gun near BRC Bhavan in Dhoraji of Rajkot district on Wednesday afternoon. The Dhoraji police claim they have got the CCTV footage of the crime, in which the man who had fired is clearly visible. On June 29, Rahul Chawda was arrested for allegedly beating to death a puppy with a stick in Jhundala locality of Porbandar. During his interrogation, Chawda said that he got worked up by the constant howling made by the puppy and hence, he had decided to kill it. On June 26, a person from Nagaland who worked as a waiter at a resort in Adipur town of Kutch district had strangulated the puppy he had raised as his pet. After his arrest, the accused, Khumkili Sangatam, told the police that he was angry with the puppy as it had soiled his room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-stray-dogs-thrashed-to-death-in-porbandar-town/articleshow/77135210.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Man held for making fake vehicle insurance policies||tnnChandigarh: The police have arrested a Sector 25 resident for duping people by giving them fake vehicle insurance policies. Suraj Pal, 36, was produced before a local court that sent him in one-day police remand on Thursday.Sector 17 police station SHO Ram Rattan Sharma said, “A man approached a police patrol in Sector 17 and told them that he had taken his vehicle’s insurance policy from Suraj Pal after paying him Rs 2,000. But later he found that the policy was fake.”On his information, police laid a trap near the Registration and Licensing Authority (RLA) office, Sector 17, and arrested Suraj from there. Following his interrogation, police recovered 12 registration certificates of luxury vehicles, three fake insurance policy papers and stamps of GMCH-32 from his possession. He revealed that he prepared fake policy letters at cyber cafés.Police have registered a case against the accused. “He is being interrogated about the involvement of others in the scam,” said a cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-held-for-making-fake-vehicle-insurance-policies/articleshow/77136125.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Rajkot||‘Baby negative’, best news for Covid mom||Rajkot: A 26-year-old Covid-19 positive woman gave given birth to a child which tested negative at the GG Hospital of Jamnagar on Thursday. After 30-week pregnant Jaishree Kanjaria tested Covid-19 positive on 17 July, she was admitted to the GG Hospital. For five years Kanjaria had battled infertility. At last, after numerous treatments, she became pregnant. However, her happiness was short lived after she tested Covid-19 positive. “Kanjaria had a complication called breech baby in her womb. That apart, she had a gestational diabetes. Following this, she was shifted to the isolation ward under random blood sugar monitoring. On 20 July, she was administered spinal anaesthesia and then her delivery was conducted. The baby boy when delivered weighed 1.4 kg. Surprisingly, the baby tested Covid-19 negative,” said a press release issued by the GG Hospital. Expressing her happiness, Kanjaria said, “I have not seen god. But the doctors at GG Hospital are nothing short of gods to me. I was worried about my child as I was Covid-19 positive. But the doctors saved the lives of both me and my child.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/baby-negative-best-news-for-covid-mom/articleshow/77135229.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Lucknow||BBAU & DSMRU final year exams likely to be held online||LUCKNOW: Dr Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University (BBAU) is likely to conduct final year examination in an online mode as majority of departments are not in favour of conducting it in the pen and paper mode. BBAU had asked all its 40 departments to give their view and preference for the final year examination. In the responses received from the departments, over 90% are in favour of online examination while a few had insisted on the offline mode. “As majority of departments have given their consensus on conducting online examination preferring multiple-choice based examination, short answers, and evaluation on the basis of short project and assignments, the varsity may conduct final year examinations in online mode,” said BBAU spokesperson Prof Rachna Gangwar. She said the final decision will be taken in a meeting to be held shortly. Meanwhile, Dr Shakuntala Misra National Rehabilitation University (DSMRU) will take a call on the basis of responses from students who have opted for writing the paper in their own districts. The varsity has asked its over 1,500 final year students to share their responses whether they want examination in university campuses or in districts near their households.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bbau-dsmru-final-year-exams-likely-to-be-held-online/articleshow/77136808.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Patna||Bihar to add 5,000 more beds as Covid-19 tally rises to 31,691||PATNA: The state government on Thursday announced that it will increase the number of beds for treatment of Covid-19 patients by 5,000 even as the statewide tally surged by 1,625 fresh cases to reach 31,691, while the active cases crossed the 10,000 mark. Four deaths were also reported, including three from Patna and a politician from Gaya, taking the official toll to 212. With hundreds of new cases added every day, the state government has decided to link Guru Gobind Singh Hospital in Patna City with the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) and develop it as another dedicated Covid hospital with 100 beds, secretary (health) Lokesh Kumar Singh. Besides, Gyan Bhawan at the Samrat Ashok International Convention Centre in Patna is also being developed as a 100-bed dedicated Covid hospital, he added. “It has also been decided to add 400 beds at Madhepura Medical College and Hospital, which already has 100 beds. A 100- bed facility is also being developed at ESI hospital, Bihta,” Singh further said, adding that 1,100 beds will be added with such steps. Information and public relations secretary Anupam Kumar told media persons on Thursday that that there are 8,000 beds currently available for Covid treatment and 5,000 more will be added to the existing capacity. “At the directions of chief minister Nitish Kumar, the health department is taking steps to increase the number of beds. A decision was also taken on fixing the cost of treatment of Covid-19 patients in private hospitals to ensure patients are not overcharged,” Anupam said at the daily Covid-19 briefing. He added that the health department has also decided to increase its testing capacity so that results for Covid-19 should come out within 24 hours. The IPRD secretary also claimed that 1 lakh antigen testing kits are being sent to the districts to ensure that people are tested on- demand at sub- divisional hospitals as well as primary health centres. Giving details of testing, the health department secretary said altogether 4,19,208 samples have been tested for Covid-19 so far, including 10,015 samples in the past 24 hours. Among the dead on Thursday was former chief of Gaya Zila Parishad Bindeshwari Prasad Yadav, alias Bindi Yadav. Three Patna residents also died due to Covid-19 on Thursday. According to the health department, two deaths each were reported from Muzaffarpur and Rohtas. Four deaths were reported at AIIMS-Patna on Thursday evening, including that of RJD leader Raj Kishore Yadav. AIIMS-Patna nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar said Raj Kishore, resident of Saguna Mor, had died late on Wednesday evening. Apart from Raj Kishore, a 59-year-old male from Patrakar Nagar died at AIIMS on Thursday. Two other deceased were from Muzaffarpur and Rohtas each. Three deaths were reported from NMCH, including a 47-year-old Ashok Nagar resident, an 85-year-old AG Colony resident and a 55-year-old woman from Rohtas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-to-add-5k-more-beds-as-covid-19-tally-rises-to-31691/articleshow/77134783.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 24, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala gold smuggling case: ED to take custody of Swapna Suresh||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The enforcement directorate (ED) will take key accused Swapna Suresh into custody from the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the probe into the proceeds of gold smuggling case under the sections of Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Top ED sources confirmed that she will be taken into custody most likely on Friday. The arrests in the cases being probed by enforcement directorate are usually rare as the provision for bail under sections of PMLA are not easy, but since the gold smuggling case is a multi-dimensional case being probed by other agencies as well, the enforcement directorate is also leaving no stones unturned so as to ensure a fool-proof probe. “The ED can hold the accused in its custody for a maximum of 14 days, but the accused will be retained in the custody depending on the outcome of the interrogation,” sources said. Once interrogation is complete, the accused will be produced in the PMLA special court. The ED probe has a wider scope since the case not only deals with the proceeds of the crime, but also those who helped in rolling the money, even though they do not have a direct link with the specific crime. “Every case registered by the ED will be based on an original crime registered by another agency. But unlike in the case of other agencies, the onus of proving any unexplained, unaccounted income will be on the accused and not the investigating agency. If the accused is not able to explain such income, the proceeds will be attached,” he said. In the gold smuggling case, the ED had slapped the provisions of more stringent PMLA, and not just Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) as the NIA had chipped in with the provisions of unlawful activities prevention act (UAPA). Once the prevention of money laundering act (PMLA) kicks in, the charges will be non-bailable, and several other measures like freezing of the bank accountss and attachment of properties etc would also follow. The penalty under the PMLA act can also include an imprisonment up to seven years. With the ED also joining the probe, three parallel investigations into the gold smuggling case will progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ed-to-take-custody-of-swapna-suresh/articleshow/77135251.cms||KP Saikiran
July 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||PIL wants assembly bypolls deferred||Ahmedabad: A PIL filed in the Gujarat high court wants the holding of byelections for eight vacant assembly seats to be deferred due to the surge in Covid-19 cases. A social worker from Radhanpur, Farsu Gokalani filed the PIL seeking indefinite postponement of bypolls for the Abdasa, Morbi, Dang, Dhari, Karjan, Limbdi, Gadhada and Kaprada constituencies. He sought directions to the Election Commission of India to not hold elections in these circumstances as it will prove disastrous for the people. Gokalani contended that this is the time to set up testing centres to trace Covid-19 patients and there is a need to ramp up testing, not to create polling booths. Holding elections would only increase troubles. The petition states that after the recent Rajya Sabha elections, where only 182 MLAs were to vote, two senior members of the assembly tested positive for Covid. When the danger of this infectious disease is so great, one can only imagine what can happen when nearly 19 lakh people vote at 2,494 polling booths in eight assembly constituencies. He contended that all social, political, educational and sports activities are prohibited and no congregation is allowed, in such a scenario holding assembly bye polls would violate the present guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pil-wants-assembly-bypolls-deferred/articleshow/77136167.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Vadodara||54 crocs in 10km make Dev River daunting||Vadodara: Dev River has become out of bounds for terrified residents of Mahadevpura village following three deadly attacks on its people by crocodiles there turning its waters red and deadly. The lifeline that flows through this hamlet in Waghodia taluka is often used by the villagers to bathe, wash clothes among fulfilling other needs. However, nobody ventures there now fearing the giant jaws that lurk in the deep waters. In last five months, three deadly crocodile attacks have already been reported along this river stretch prompting the forest department to step in. Forest officials have put up signboards warning locals to keep away from the 10-kilometre stretch of river, which has become the abode for 54 crocodiles. “With five crocodiles residing in every kilometre stretch, the density of reptiles is very high in this river. Many of these reptiles even crawl out of the river and lie in nearby fields. It has become a hotspot for reptile attacks,” said a forest official. “Till last year, this river didn’t witness any crocodile attack. But this year, three human-crocodile conflicts have been recorded so far. The river is infested with adult crocodiles and the conflict increases in summers and monsoons as crocodiles lay eggs and raise hatchlings in these seasons,” said Chandrika Chaudhary, range forest officer (RFO), Waghodia. Chaudhary added that like Vishwamitri River, Dev River too has a dense population of crocodiles and it has become a cause of concern for the locals. “Many locals are dependent on the river for their daily water needs. We haven’t ventured near the river for past couple of weeks in fear of another croc attack. This is for the first time that we have seen so many reptiles in Dev River,” Vishal Vasava, a resident of Mahadevpura, told TOI. Vasava alleged that the villagers’ appeal for a separate enclusure in the river to wash clothes have fallen on the mamlatdar’s deaf ears. “One of the reasons for dense population of crocodiles in this stretch is the ideal hunting ground for the reptiles. The Dev River is 10 to 15 feet deep at some spots while in parts of the stretch it is as shallow as three feet,” said Hemant Vadhwana, wildlife activist. “Many small animals venture into the shallow portions of the river and turn easy kill for the reptiles. And the deeper parts have huge fish supply. In fact, many locals also fish in this stretch and therefore, reptiles mistake them for smaller animals,” Vadhwana added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/54-crocs-in-10km-make-dev-river-daunting/articleshow/77135621.cms||Tushar Tere
July 24, 2020||Erode||14 TV channels ready to telecast lessons from August 1: Min||Erode: School education minister K A Sengottaiyan said 14 TV channels are ready to broadcast lessons from August 1 onwards. “Tamil Nadu is the first state to teach lessons through TV channels in the country,” he said. Sengottaiyan inaugurated Rs 2 crore worth of five projects including new tar road laying work, new building for milk producers and construction work initiated for a small bridge in Karattupalayam panchayat on Thursday. The minister said those students who are quarantined or isolated can also apply for retotaling through online.An 18-member team has prepared a detailed report on reducing the syllabus, the minister said. “They have given the report to us and we were discussing with education department officials and experts to implement the team’s suggestions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/14-tv-channels-ready-to-telecast-lessons-from-august-1-min/articleshow/77136797.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali RTA office sealed as employee tests positive||Mohali: The office of Regional Transport Authority (RTA) was sealed on Thursday after its employee tested positive for Covid-19.The staffer, a resident of Chandigarh, was posted at public dealing window, said Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan.Eight days ago, Mohali SDM office was sealed for three days after the Mohali SDM contracted the virus.Besides, 33 positive cases were reported in the district on the day.The DC said extensive sampling and contact tracing have brought to the fore more positive cases. “We have increased the workforce and called employees from other departments to serve as support staff to strengthen the control room and record data of inbound travelers. The number of testing as well as safety protocol enforcement teams has also been increased. Door-to-door sampling is on cards and if need be, we will commence it in vulnerable areas,” he added.Of the 33 cases, maximum (15) are from Mohali city, eight from Derabassi, seven from Kharar, two from Zirakpur and one from Malakpur.On the brighter side, 20 patients were cured and discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur.The civil surgeon said of the 20 treated patients, nine were from Mohali city, one each from Nayagaon, Peermuchalla, Badala and Mubarikpur, five from Kharar and three from Baltana in Zirakpur.The active case tally now stands at 231 and that of the cured at 399. The toll tally is 13 to date. So far, 643 cases have been reported in the district.Mohali bulletinTotal cases: 643Active cases: 231Cured: 399Deaths: 13||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-rta-office-sealed-as-employee-tests-positive/articleshow/77136132.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
July 24, 2020||Chandigarh||55-year-old man is 13th casualty in Mohali||MOHALI: A 55-year-old resident of Sector 66, here, who was suffering from acute diabetes and heart diseases, became the 13th Covid-19 casualty in the district. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the patient breathed his last while undergoing treatment at Indus International Hospital, Derabassi, on Wednesday. His report came positive on Thursday. He was admitted to the hospital on July 21. On May 21, Mohali became a Covid-19-free district after 46 days of turmoil with zero active cases and 105 positive cases. Five days later, positive cases started coming and since then there has been a continuous surge in caseload, which increased three times to reach 366 at the rate of 71% in the past 44 days. Dr Singh said, “We had cautioned residents about the surge, but it seems they are taking this deadly disease lightly. Secondly, people coming from other states are concealing their travel history. We have been doing extensive samplings to detect hiding symptomatic patients and their contacts. Detection will curtail further spread of the disease.” He appealed to the people to leave their homes only for urgent work, and visit hospitals only for serious problems. They should, instead, contact the health department’s helpline 104 for expert advice, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/55-yr-old-man-is-13th-casualty-in-mohali/articleshow/77136126.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
July 24, 2020||Hubballi||Pandemic effect: Guest lecturers reduced to selling vegetables, masks||Davanagere: The Covid-19 crisis having ruled out the possibility of colleges and schools functioning out of their buildings, at least for the foreseeable lecture, guest lecturers and adjunct faculty in institutes of higher education, who filled a crucial gap, have been rendered jobless. The unprecedented turn in their fortune has compelled them to look for any alternative employment, through which they can eke out a living, and some have switched to selling vegetables. Arunkumar, a postgraduate in commerce who worked as a guest lecturer at Chanukya First-Grade College in Davanagere, has been reduced to selling vegetables by the side of the road near a bus stop in Vidyanagar. “My contract with the college was not renewed, and I have not been paid any salary since March, and I had to find some means of livelihood to support my wife and baby daughter,” said Arunkumar. His day begins in the early hours, when he leaves his rented house, purchases vegetables for around Rs 800 at the wholesale market, which he subsequently proceeds to sell between 6am and 12pm, and again from 4pm to 8pm. “I make a profit of around Rs 300 every day,” he said. Vijayakumar N, who worked as a part-time lecturer at AVK College in Davanagere for six years, too was dealt a cruel hand by fate, when he lost his job in March when the lockdown was enforced. He took to selling drinking water bottles in order to make ends meet, but the going has been tough. “There are too many agencies already in the field, and my business is not doing well. On top of everything, I still have to pay a monthly rent of Rs 12,000 for an office where I took private tuitions,” Vijaykumar said. Santhosh BM, an economics lecturer, is struggling to adapt to his new profession, wherein he is selling masks on the sides of the road. “I worked for more than two years at three private colleges in Davanagere,” said Santhosh, who, while managed to sustain himself by plying masks in April and May, is facing stiff competition owing to the entry of far too many players in the market since.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/pandemic-effect-guest-lecturers-reduced-to-selling-vegetables-masks/articleshow/77132841.cms||SA Gangaraju
July 24, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Man commits suicide in hospital||MANDYA: A suspected Covid-19 patient allegedly committed suicide at Mandya Medical College Hospital on Thursday. According to sources, the 55-year-old person from Malavalli town was found dead in a toilet. His body was hanging from the window grill. He was admitted at MIMS three days ago and kept in the observation ward. His throat swab was sent to the lab. However, he committed suicide before the arrival of the test result which proved to be negative. Manchegowda, district health officer (DHO) said that the man was visibly under stress for unknown reasons and his suicide was not related to Covid fears.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/man-commits-suicide-in-hospital/articleshow/77133244.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram school stopped 400 students from attending online classes, allege parents||GURUGRAM: A leading private school in the city had struck off the names of around 400 students from the online class roster for non-payment of school fees, alleged parents. This is despite repeated directions from the state government and orders by the courts to private schools to not take punitive action against students for any dues in the lockdown period. After the parents approached the district authorities and wrote letters to the state government and other school education regulatory bodies, the school restored the access to online classes, albeit with a rider that the resumption is temporary. In a mail (accessed by TOI) sent to the parents, the school wrote, “In light of the ex-party (without hearing the School) order passed by the Commissioner, Gurugram Division, and the school has temporarily restored the online access for students whose fee remains outstanding. The matter is sub-judice and the school is obtaining the appropriate legal rights in relation to the same.” Similar complaints have poured in from other schools in Gurugram and Faridabad. Parents have said they are being “harassed” and have termed such responses as unconstitutional and in violation of the Right to Education. “Students are being barred from online classes in a very dictatorial way. We have already paid fees till July in February itself. When they raised the bill for composite fee for the remaining year, parents objected and wanted the school to comply with government guidelines. We objected to the demand for additional charges for meals, transportation, laundry, etc,” said one of the aggrieved parents who didn’t wish to be named, fearing the repercussion on the child. In the past months, the bone of contention between parents and private schools has been the charges beyond the tuition fees that the schools have allegedly been charging parents in violation of government orders that say schools should raise bills solely on tuition fees and on a monthly basis. “The two branches have continued to issue composite fee invoices in advance, even for the second term which starts around October-end on 15th July. Parents of both branches repeatedly requested their respective schools for revised invoices with transparency towards the tuition fee component, but to no avail. Instead, they were met with stubborn refusal to comply with the law, veiled threats of coercive action against wards for non-payment as per the presented invoice,” said a member of the association of parents whose children attend this school. Many parents have even been forced to pull out their kids as the management refused to adjust any 'excuse' for not paying fees in advance. Based on the complaint filed by a delegation of parents, the education department issued two notices earlier this month, asking the school to abide by the directions of the government. Similar directions were issued by the Fee and Fund Regulatory Committee as well. But, parents claim that schools ignored these. Thereafter, this association approached the High Court in Chandigarh on Tuesday. The Court stayed the school from collecting more than 40% of the composite fees and noted,“Prima-facie, it seems rather incongruous that the School should demand even the transport charges which illustratively is reflective of their mindset of undue enrichment”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/school-stopped-400-students-from-attending-online-classes-allege-parents/articleshow/77136816.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
July 24, 2020||Lucknow||Free antigen test on Covid suspects in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: The district administration will conduct a free of cost antigen test of the people with novel coronavirus symptoms. District magistate Abhishek Prakash, while reviewing the status of surveillance and testing in the city, said that the antigen tests will be done at the government health centres. He also set a target of 500 tests per centre daily. If there is not enough space at the centre, collection points can be made in the premises of the nearest school or college, he added. The DM also said that 600 surveillance teams had been formed to carry out a door-to-door screening survey in the city. Team members have been told to mark every house after screening all the residents. If found lax or absent from work, employees posted in the teams will be booked under the Epidemic Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/free-antigen-test-on-covid-suspects/articleshow/77136817.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Nashik||Celebrate Eid at home, follow social distancing, says collector||Nashik: District collector Suraj Mandhare has urged the Muslim community to celebrate Eid-ul-Zuha at home and maintain social distancing to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Mandhare’s appeal came during a meeting attended by elected representatives, government and police officials and Muslim scholars in Malegaon on Thursday. The powerloom town was once a hotspot of Covid-19 in Nashik district. “The citizens of Malegaon have set an example by celebrating Eid-ul-Fitr (Ramazan Eid) in their homes. They should do it again on Eid-ul-Zuha, which falls on August 1,” he said. The state government has appealed to all the communities to celebrate their festivals inside their houses to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Mandhare said the Malegaon Municipal Corporation would take all the measures required to ensure that Eid is celebrated appropriately. Superintendent of police Arti Singh said police would provide all cooperation required during the Eid celebration, just like they did during the last Eid. “A healthy Eid celebration will ensure that the business and industry in Malegaon continue to function.” Maulana Ismail, an MLA from Malegaon, said the celebration of the festival is to thank Allah and has nothing to do with showbiz. “Hence, we should follow the Covid-19 guidelines and set another example,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/celebrate-eid-at-home-followsocial-distancing-says-collector/articleshow/77134156.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 24, 2020||Nagpur||CP, Bharne join forces to check 24,600 anti-socials in Phase Begin Again||Nagpur: Coordinated action from police stations and crime branch, as part of ‘Phase Begin Again’ launched in June first week, has led to checking of more than 24,600 goons so far, of whom 11,800 had prior records of assaults and attacks. Led by commissioner of police (CP) BK Upadhyay and additional CP Nilesh Bharne, preventive actions were initiated against around 2,600 goons, including 34 cases in which imminent dacoities were prevented. Around 230 cases of Arms Act were also slapped against criminals for possessing various types of weapons, followed by their seizures. A shocking 17 murders in the first three weeks of June had left city police unsettled, following which Upadhyay had launched two back-to-back special drives — ‘Operation Crackdown Phase-II’ and ‘Operation Hands-off’ — to weed out the goons and seize arms from them. City police’s woes were aggravated as more than 850 criminals were released from jail due to the pandemic threat. Around 1,030 goons who were either released from Nagpur Central Jail and other prisons, or got bails through the routine process, were checked. While the duties at Covid isolation wards, quarantine centres and containment zones still got the bulk of their attention, city police top brass did not allow the situation to slip out of hands. With the introduction of special ‘intelligence cell’, cops strategically tackled gang wars by checking 180 criminals who were planning an attack on their rivals, and also took preventive action against 135 of them. Around 215 such criminals engaged in gang rivalries are now under the scanner in the city. Bharne, now holding the charge of joint CP, said focused and concerted efforts were undertaken at police stations and the crime branch to keep the goons under check. “We had initiated ‘Dattak Yojana’ or ‘adoption scheme’ for personal focus on each criminal by a single personnel. Every officer and constable was allotted a criminal and asked to keep a tab on his or her whereabouts, latest group members, earning, changing equations with others, movements and other aspects which the cops are expected to have on their finger tips,” said Bharne. He said regular review and monitoring is done at his level, and developments are shared with rest of the top brass. Bharne also said that the spate of murders after the lockdown had left the cops worried, but they kept the goons under relentless pressure by regularly summoning them, asking them to furnish their details, share information about their present activities and means of income and other details. “Many gangs are now on the run after the police started visiting their residences and dens round-the-clock,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cp-bharne-join-forces-to-check-24600-anti-socials-in-phase-begin-again/articleshow/77136146.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 24, 2020||Goa||22 workers at ZACL Covid care discharged||Panaji: Around 22 patients who had been admitted at the Covid care centre set up by Zuari Agro Chemicals Limited at its Jai Kisaan Club were discharged on Thursday after being declared as Covid negative. The men, mostly contract workers, were in the facility for 10 days and have now been asked to remain for seven days in home quarantine. Zuari Agro Chemicals Ltd had conducted Covid-19 tests for its contract workers through Thyrocare and had setup a Covid care centre after many of the workers tested positive. ZACL’s Jai Kisaan Club was converted into a temporary quarantined zone for Covid infected contract labour after obtaining approval from the South Goa collector, becoming the first industrial covid care centre in the state. About 160 infected contract workers were quarantined at the facility, where a full-fledged medical team was on call. “Workers who are in the Covid test centre for 10 days will be stamped for a further period of seven days of home quarantine as per the health guidelines,” said a ZACL official. The workers are being retested before being released outside the premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/22-workers-at-zacl-covid-care-discharged/articleshow/77136818.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Nagpur||Question marks over PWD’s MLA Hostel tenders||Nagpur: Question marks are being raised over the huge difference in rates at which division number 1 of the Public Works Department (PWD) awarded bids for quarantine centre works at MLA Hostel. The works awarded through e-tenders were as much as 60% below the estimate, while the emergency tenders were awarded at rates fixed by the department. Activist Anil Wadpalliwar has alleged that the emergency tenders were awarded at inflated rates. “How can the same work be performed at a 60% or 40% lower cost when e-tenders were called? Such huge difference shows that government suffered a loss in the emergency works,” he told TOI. PWD executive engineer (EE) Janardhan Bhanuse refuted all allegations. “Most of the emergency works were awarded to VD Constructions, whose proprietor is Deepak Dandekar. Later, Dandekar got only one work through e-tenders. He then complained to senior Shiv Sena leader Gajanan Kirtikar that I had misused my powers in awarding emergency tenders. How can the beneficiary complain of wrongdoing? I have started the process of blacklisting him,” he said. Bhanuse further said that the emergency tenders were floated as per standard estimated rates. “What can I do if Dandekar did not agree to work at lower than estimated rates and later, others agreed to,” he added. The EE said that the period of the tender was four or six weeks, but he had asked the contractors to do the job for three months for the same amount. Dandekar, however, denied this. District collector Ravindra Thakare had asked PWD to convert MLA Hostel into a quarantine centre on March 12. Bhanuse floated the tenders on the same day and work orders were issued the next day. The works included providing anti-bacterial sanitization with sodium hypochlorite, supply of cleaning mop, cleaning liquid, nylon rope, waste disposal bags etc, and providing services of skilled and unskilled workers for quarantined patients. Division number 1 has earlier been in controversy over tenders floated for renovation of MLA Hostel, Ravi Bhavan and Nag Bhavan. Large number of engineers from the division were suspended some years ago by Nagpur bench of Bombay high court while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/question-marks-over-pwds-mla-hostel-tenders/articleshow/77136153.cms||Ashish Roy
July 24, 2020||Lucknow||Covid cases breach 5,000-mark in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: The novel coronavirus infection wave continues to be on the rise in city with the case count breaching the 5,000 mark on Thursday with the addition of 307 patients. The new cases included 19 staff members of a nationalised bank’s Hazratganj branch, a former MP and a health worker in KGMU. Thursday’s tally was once again the highest in UP for the day. The total cases in Lucknow climbed to 5,098 since the outbreak, though 1,864 have been discharged, while 65 lost the battle to virus. The abrupt surge in infection in last one week has increased the gap between infected and cured patients, resulting in 3,196 active cases as on Thursday. The spike in infection this month can be estimated from the fact that 79% of total cases have been recorded in July. In fact, there were just about 1,000 Covid patients till June-end, but in July the cases increased by 4,000, witnessing a massive jump of 375%. Meanwhile, the Hazratganj branch of a nationalised bank was closed for 48 hours for sanitisation. The first case in branch was reported four days ago. On Thursday, 19 employees were also found infected. Former BSP MP from Dhaurahra, Daud Ahmad, a resident of River Bank Colony, was admitted to a private hospital after testing positive and is on oxygen support. A woman employee of KGMU’s microbiology department also tested positive. The department has been in the forefront of Covid testing in the state. KGMU spokesperson Dr Sudhir Singh said the employee was not engaged in testing process. A ward in the emergency wing of SPM Hospital was closed for sanitisation after a woman patient tested positive. Area-wise, Indiranagar registered the highest number of 18 cases even though it is a containment area and strict curbs are in place. Gomtinagar was next by recording 16 cases, Chinhat 15, Hazratganj 12, Rae Bareli road also 12, Aminabad 11, Aliganj 11 and Alambagh 10 cases, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/307-cases-virus-enters-ganj-bank/articleshow/77136820.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Gurgaon||MCG identifies 46 areas prone to waterlogging in Gurugram||GURUGRAM: Wednesday’s rain had caught MCG unprepared as waterlogging was reported from several areas in the city. Based on the reports compiled on Wednesday, the civic body has prepared a list of 46 critical areas where arrangements will be made by MCG teams to tackle a similar situation in the coming days, officials said. The report contains the areas where waterlogging was reported from, agency under whose jurisdiction the area falls, officials responsible for clearing waterlogging from the area. “These areas include an internal road in Sector 52, Sector 21 pocket A, Sohna Chowk, Basai Road, Rajendra Chowk, Narsingpur service road, Signature Towers road, RD city road, Khandsa road, Ghata underpass in Ward 30, Sector 39 behind Cyber Park and Ward 28, among others,” said an official adding that the teams will include executive engineers, assistant engineers and junior engineers. “We have arranged tractor-mounted pumps and water pumps for this monsoon season. Whenever the need arises, we will send our teams with the required equipment. We have also hired JCBs to tackle the problem,” said Raman Sharma, chief engineer, MCG. Since it rained heavily on Wednesday, MCG officials, including the additional commissioner, joint commissioners and other officials, were instructed to be on the field and monitor the situation in some areas. When TOI spoke to a few residents, they said that clogged drains was the cause for the waterlogging. “The drain along the road from Rezang La Chowk to Krishna Chowk was completely blocked due to which water entered in some of the houses in Palam Vihar. Palam Vihar A block remained inundated for seven hours. The drains should be cleaned instead of making a temporary arrangements to divert water to other areas,” said Sunil Yadav, a resident of Palam Vihar. Meanwhile, officials said that the cleaning of drains is carried out every year between March and May, but this year due to the lockdown and labour shortage the work could not be carried out. While preparing for monsoon, MCG had constituted 35 mobile response teams, one each ward, to address waterlogging complaints within 30 minutes of receiving a call. Moreover, GMDA has also set up a flood control room. A total of 79 critical points prone to waterlogging were identified by the MCG in May and teams were constituted to inspect these critical points. However, the critical points were reduced to 32 after inspection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/mcg-identifies-46-areas-prone-to-waterlogging-in-city/articleshow/77136819.cms||Vishakha Chaman
July 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Moneylender booked for businessman’s suicide||Ahmedabad: Anandnagar police on Thursday booked a moneylender whose name was mentioned in a suicide note left by a businessman who jumped to death from 12th floor of his residential building in the Prahladnagar area. Sushil Tibrewal, 62, had taken the extreme step on Tuesday night as his business suffered tremendous losses since the lockdown was imposed. His suicide note categorically states that he was being hounded by a moneylender named Omprakash Punjabi. According to the FIR filed by his son, Saket, 38, Sushil was in great financial trouble and mental stress as Punjabi was threatening to kill him if he did not keep paying money. Saket said that his father had taken Rs 20 lakh from Punjabi and ended up paying Rs 1 crore. But even after that, Punjabi was threatening to kill him and seeking more money from Sushil. Saket said that he had witnessed his father falling from the building Safar Parivesh in Prahladnagar where they lived when he was parking his car. He said when he saw the man who fell from the building, he was shocked. Sushil was taken to a nearby private hospital where he was declared dead by doctors. Later, Saket checked his father’s cupboard and found five notes left by him. Of the five notes, four were addressed to different family members and one blamed Punjabi for his extreme step. Anandnagar police registered a complaint of abetment to suicide and criminal intimidation along with charges of Gujarat Money-Lenders Act and began an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/moneylender-booked-for-businessmans-suicide/articleshow/77136158.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: This gramophone museum brings no music to his ears now||KOTTAYAM: A private museum for gramophone records and machines is struggling to survive the odds in recent times. The museum, a dream project of a retried government employee, has been functioning since 2015 without any external aid. Sunny Mathew, the man behind the museum, was confident that he could finance its operations with revenue generated from his rubber plantation. However, the steady slump in rubber prices has been a blow to him and his passion for music. Adding to this was the Covid pandemic. The museum ‘Discs and Machines’ located at Plassanal, a small town near Erattupetta in the district, has been shut for the last four months. The three-storied museum is located adjacent to the house of Mathew, who retired as divisional manager of Kerala forest development corporation. The museum contains over a lakh gramophone records, 78 rpm shellac, vinyl, wire records and audio cassettes of various sizes, CDs, etc. It also has a rare collection of gramophones. The idea of a museum struck Mathew in 2012 and invested all his retirement corpus to build it. The museum was completed in 2015 and was open for public with no entry fee.“The fall in rubber prices has eroded my base. I don’t think there is any scope for a revival,” said 66-year-old Mathew. The price of rubber which was close to Rs 200 when he began construction in 2012 has slumped to less than Rs 100 in recent times. The visit to the museum is by appointment only. “I want genuine music lovers and not casual visitors who are more into taking selfies,” he said. He says that on average about 1,000 people visit the museum yearly and majority of them are from north India and Tamil Nadu. The 3,500sq ft air conditioned building has three guest rooms to house visitors and researchers on the ground floor. The gramophone records are neatly arranged in iron shelves on the first floor and the top floor houses various types of gramophone machines. Mathew’s passion for music and antiques inspired him to travel across the country to acquire the records and machines. “Each record and machine has to be cleaned periodically to ensure that it not damaged due to a weather change or pests,” he said. “I am planning to convert the museum into a registered trust so that it can get government aid or sponsors,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/this-gramophone-museum-brings-no-music-to-his-ears-now/articleshow/77135285.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
July 24, 2020||Kolkata||Nursing homes, smaller private hospitals in Kolkata join coronavirus fight||KOLKATA: Smaller private hospitals and nursing homes in the city are now joining hands in the fight against Covid by setting up wards to share the patient load. The move will increase Covid beds at a time when major hospitals in the city are struggling to meet the demand. Given the unabated rise in cases and the rush of patients, the state health department reached out to nursing homes, asking them to set aside a section of their beds for the treatment of people contracting the novel coronavirus. The request came after private hospitals sent out an SOS that they were running out of beds. “Given the bed crisis, we have decided to rope in nursing homes, which can help with whatever number of beds they can,” said a health department official. Following a meeting with nursing home representatives on Wednesday, the health department has added nine nursing homes to its list of private hospitals for Covid treatment, while several others are working on the infrastructure. Once all the nine listed facilities become functional, 176 beds will be added to the existing 1,948 private hospital Covid beds. “Of our 60 functional beds, we have converted 20 into Covid facilities. Of them, 10 are for intensive care. We are evaluating whether we need to scale up the number or not,” said an official of Ohio Hospital in New Town. While private hospitals that are currently treating Covid patients are bigger, the smaller hospitals and nursing homes can accommodate 60 to 150 beds, each. Accordingly, the smaller facilities have been asked to reserve 10 to 40 beds for coronavirus. “As of now, we are creating a Covid ward with a capacity for 20 beds,” said Arindam Chanda, COO of GD Hospital in central Kolkata. “Given the current crisis, we have decided to create a 10-bed level 1 and 2 Covid-care facility, for which work is in progress,” said Subir Kumar Banerjee, medical superintendent at Iris Hospital that has 84 functional beds. Some nursing homes are figuring out the logistics before setting up the infrastructure for Covid treatment. “Most nursing homes are located in congested areas and not all buildings have separate entry and exit gates. If we start accepting Covid cases without proper planning, it could prove disastrous for non-Covid patients. We should be allowed some more time to execute the plan,” said the administrator of a south Kolkata nursing home. Some private hospitals, like Peerless, have been increasing their beds regularly. A health department official said more hospitals, including Nightingale, had agreed to add more Covid beds. The hospital currently has only three beds for novel coronavirus patients. Some hospitals, like Fortis, have introduced home-care services so that those who do not need admission can be treated at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nursing-homes-smaller-pvt-hosps-join-virus-fight/articleshow/77136162.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 24, 2020||India||Cops use UAPA to block site, call it ‘goof-up’ later||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police first invoked provisions under the anti-terrorism law against a website run by “Fridays for Future” protesting against proposed changes in norms for green clearances, only to withdraw them and send a modified notice, drawing flak from activists, report Vishwa Mohan & Anam Ajmal. The U-turn came in the context of a complaint filed by environment minister Prakash Javadekar as his inbox was being flooded by emails with the subject similar to “EIA2020” (Environmental Impact Assessment Notification, 2020). The emails were sent by thousands of activists opposing the proposed amendment to the green rules. Since the content of the emails was linked to the environment website run by a collective “Fridays for Future” (FFF), Delhi Police’s cyber crime unit special cell got it blocked on July 10. The FFF website carried content claiming to generate public awareness around the draft EIA notification, which has proposed easing certain green norms. Delhi Police sources said that the charges under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act were a “goof-up” which was corrected once it was brought to the notice of senior officers. Amid a flood of criticism over the action, Delhi Police issued a “clarification” on Thursday, stating that they had “inadvertently” invoked UAPA to block the website. Asked about Javadekar’s complaint with regard to receiving multiple emails, environment ministry spokesperson Gaurav Khare said, “Draft EIA Notification,2020 is in public domain. Any suggestions and comments can be sent at the official mail provided for the purpose i.e. eia2020-moef cc@gov.in till August 10. How is spamming a minister’s personal mail with a lakh mails justified?” The ministry did not comment on Delhi Police’s move, merely saying it could better be clarified by the latter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cops-use-uapa-to-block-site-call-it-goof-up-later/articleshow/77137573.cms||Vishwa Mohan
July 24, 2020||Rajkot||Kamdhenu Aayog targets selling 10K cow dung Ganesha idols this fest||Rajkot: With a target to make 10,000 Ganapati idols from cow dung, the Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog started a campaign from Rajkot on Thursday facilitating city’s gaushalas (cowsheds) to achieve their lofty aim. Aayog will help the administrators of these cowsheds not only find artisans for the idols but also, moulds, raw materials and dyes besides a market to sell their products. Chariman Vallabh Kathiriya on Thursday held an ideation meeting with many gaushala administrators to strategize for its execution. “We are in talks with local firms to provide material for the idols and also we will find market including NGOs and Khadi bhandars to help us sell these idols. We will also promote the eco-friendly and non-polluting idol among devotees,” Kathiriya said. Kathiriya further said that the concept of cow dung Ganesha idols is getting popular in some of the states in south and north India. Trustee of Rajkot’s Karuna trust, which is coordinating between gaushala administrators and the Kamdhaenu Aayog, Mittal Khetani said, “We have set a target of making 10,000 cow dung idols in this Ganpati mahotsav. Five artists have come forward to help the gaushalas make the idols. As big celebrations of Ganapati festival is prohibited this year, we are expecting demand for smaller idols to rise for individual homes.” The Aayog also plans to make idols of goddess Lakshmi and clay bowls of cow dung during Diwali. “We want to create an industry based on cow dung which will help the cow breeders,” Kathiriya added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/kamdhenu-aayog-targets-selling-10k-cow-dung-ganesha-idols-this-fest/articleshow/77135269.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Jaipur||HC notice on irregularities in loan waiver scheme during BJP tenure||Jaipur: Rajasthan High Court has sought a response from the state government on the demand for a CBI probe into alleged corruption in Rajasthan crop loan waiver scheme 2018 under which agriculture loans of up to Rs 50,000 were waived. This scheme was introduced in the last year of Raje’s government following an agitation by farmers. The court has issued notices to the chief secretary, principal secretary (cooperatives), principal secretary finance, registrar cooperatives and Dholpur collector, among others. The division bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanti and Justice Prakash Gupta passed the order on a PIL by Ramswaroop Verma. The petitioner said the state government had launched the scheme in 2018 to waive loans of up to Rs 50,000 under the cooperative banks and land development banks. Largescale irregularities and corruption has been reported in it. The bank, in connivance with government officials, also waived loans of farmers who had not taken any loan at all. Citing the example of 28 farmers of Dholpur in the petition, who did not avail any loan, the petitioner said banks fabricated documents of loan disbursal in the name of farmers and then waived it. It demanded that the irregularities be investigated by the CBI or ACB and the fake loan amounts be recovered from guilty officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-notice-on-irregularities-in-loan-waiver-scheme-during-bjp-tenure/articleshow/77136823.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Lucknow||Guards lax in Covid duty, KGMU notice to security agencies||LUCKNOW: King George’s Medical University (KGMU) on Thursday issued a show cause notice to security agencies deployed on its campus for failing to maintain Covid-19 safety protocols. Representatives of seven such agencies have now been summoned to the vice-chancellor’s office on Friday, failing which legal action will be taken against them. TOI has continuously exposed KGMU’s lapses in strict adherence to safety protocols of social distancing and use of masks on the premises. KGMU chief medical superintendent Prof SN Sankhwar, in an interview to TOI, had also put the blame of virus spread on patients and attendants roaming on campus. In the show cause notice, chief proctor Prof RAS Kushwaha has said that officials inspected two prime areas visited by patients these days on July 20 and July 22, and found that guards were either unable to maintain social distance between patients or were absent from their duty spots. “On July 20, I did a surprise inspection of the area between the triage (neurology department) and corona ward (infectious diseases hospital-IDH). Over 150 patients and their attendants were crowding the area. Guards on duty were unable to manage the crowd,” said Prof Kushwaha. “They were only mute spectators,” he added. On July 22, KGMU vice-chancellor, pro-VC, registrar and chief proctor along with the proctorial board inspected the screening/holding area established at the geriatric mental health department, opposite Trauma Centre. The guards were not found on duty there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/guards-lax-in-covid-duty-kgmu-notice-to-security-agencies/articleshow/77136831.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Nashik||Admin for more Covid centres in Sinnar||Nashik: The local administration in Sinnar, along with the officials of industrial estates, both private and government, has identified new locations to set up Covid care centres (CCC). This development took place during a meeting, on Thursday. The meering was headed by Rahul Khotade, the tehsildar of Sinnar, and was attended by health and industrial officials and various industrialists. Due to the possibility of requiring more Covid treatment facilitates, the industries and the administration have identified two companies that can be converted into CCCs. The facilities will be jointly set up by industries and the taluka administration. In case an employee of an industry tests Covid positive, the industrialist and the industry officials have to inform the local administration as per the protocol so the close contacts of the patients are traced . Khotade said, “At present, Sinnar has a high number of active patients and since Sinnar town has two industrial areas - Maharashtra Industries Development Corporation (MIDC) at Malegaon and the Sinnar Taluka Industries Cooperative Estate (STICE), a large number of a workforce of these companies is drawn from the taluka and hence, the entire industry is at risk.” “The administration and the industrialists chalked out some important points that will help better in coordination and treatment of the patients,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/admin-for-more-covid-centres-in-sinnar/articleshow/77134181.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 24, 2020||Trichy||Testing capacity of KAPV medical college lab to go up||Trichy: The district administration plans to increase the testing capacity of the laboratory at K A P Viswanatham (KAPV) government medical college as it is not in proportion to the rising number of samples. Trichy collector S Sivarasu told TOI that the lab’s capacity will be increased from 1,200 to 1,500. It has managed to test the samples through three RT-PCR machines since the outbreak of Covid-19 in March. An automated RNA extractor was also in use to extract RNA from the sample before putting them in the machine for testing. In the wake of the increase in number of samples of late, the lab found it difficult to declare the results in a day. A senior doctor said that testing around 800 samples a day would be ideal or else the number of equipment should be increased. The lack of availability of consumables for the RNA extractor also delayed the turn-around-time (TAT). Collector Sivarasu had said on Wednesday that the results of the pending tests on 3,408 people revealed that 340 of them tested positive in the past two days while 3,068 were found free of the disease. Of the total backlogs, around 1,600 samples were cleared through a private laboratory in another district, he said. On Thursday, the district administration and the public health department managed to collect around 1,300 samples. Sources said that as many as 400 samples were being collected from passengers of Vande Bharat flights and domestic flights every day and tested at KAPV. The samples of inward passengers of charter flights were being tested by private laboratories. An official said that the idea of keeping the patients in home isolation emanated when the TAT of Covid-19 testing got longer in Trichy in the past ten days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/testing-capacity-of-kapv-medical-college-lab-to-go-up/articleshow/77137440.cms||Gokul Rajendran
July 24, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: No parade by students this year on Independence Day||JAIPUR: This year’s Independence Day celebrations at Sawai Mansingh Stadium here will be devoid of the colourful cultural programme, PT parade and other performances by school children. All functions will be held in compliance with Covid safety norms, especially social distancing. Hundreds of Corona Warriors including policemen, health workers, safai karmacharis and employees under women and child department will be invited at the function. This was decided after a meeting between chief secretary Rajeeva Swarup and all other departments here on Thursday. Swarup directed that social distancing should be ensured during entry to the event, seating arrangements, parades and organising cultural programmes. He also directed that wearing masks should be made mandatory for the visitors. “Thermal screening of all should be done and sanitizers must be kept at every entry point,” he directed. “Looking at the rise in the number of Covid cases, it was decided that cultural programmes and PT parade by schoolchildren/students will not be included in the schedule. School children will not participate this year. This year, cultural programmes will be organised by young artists of Sangeet Natak Akademi,” A GAD official said. “Horse and dog shows will be organized by the police department. Various contingents of police, RAC and home guards will participate in the parade maintaining social distancing. There will also be a performance by central police and Army Band,” stated an official statement. The CS also directed that Covid prevention messages will be spread during I-Day celebrations. Covid-related jingles will be played before the programme, read the statement. “Corona Warriors will be seated in special blocks where banners related to Covid awareness messages will be put up,” it added. Another GAD official said, “There was a discussion with all departments with regard to the preparations for Independence Day celebrations. What precautions are to be taken during the event were discussed during the meeting. Safety and security of participants, invitees and people who attend the programme will be ensured during the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-parade-by-students-this-year-on-independence-day/articleshow/77136825.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Nagpur||Hand over Rs 50k to DBA for needy lawyers: HC to registry||Nagpur: Displaying sympathy for a section of lawyers who are suffering due to lockdown of the courts and staring at penury, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court has directed its registry to hand over Rs50,000 to the District Bar Association (DBA) to help them. The association has come to the rescue of many lawyers who are in dire straits due to sudden stoppage of income ever since the lockdown began. The DBA is collecting funds from well-to-do lawyers and donating them to the needy ones who have been pushed to a corner as courts aren’t functioning fully. “We leave it to the wisdom of DBA’s executive body to utilize the amount. We hope and trust that it would be disbursed to the needy advocates. We make it clear that this amount will not be utilized for any other purpose,” a division bench comprising justices Zaka Haq and Shreeram Modak said. The amount was deposited with the registry by an accused facing charges under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) and complainant after being asked by the HC to prove their bona fide. As both parties reached a settlement, the bench quashed proceedings against the accused. Through counsel Raheel Mirza, the accused had approached HC for quashing proceedings pending against him at Yavatmal sessions court. He was booked under sections 364-A, 342, 347, 212, 201, 120-B, 34 of IPC, 8, 12 and 17 of POCSO Act, 2012, and 66(k)(d) of the Information Technology Act, 2000. The complaint was registered by the respondent who had accused the petitioner of molesting his teenaged boy. After both parties decided to settle the case amicably, the police objected citing that the investigation has progressed to a certain level. The HC then directed both the accused and complainant to deposit Rs25,000 each to prove bona fide. After court’s verdict, petitioner’s lawyer, respondent’s counsel RD Dharmadhikari and public prosecutor Sanjay Doifode requested the judges to transfer Rs50,000 to DBA for needy lawyers. “As the parties have amicably worked out the matter and trial has not yet commenced, we are of the view that no fruitful purpose would be achieved by keeping the case pending. Interests of justice would be sub-served by quashing the proceedings, subject to utilizing the amount deposited by both parties for some appropriate purpose,” the bench said before allowing petitioner’s application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hand-over-rs50k-to-dba-for-needy-lawyers-hc-to-registry/articleshow/77136164.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 24, 2020||Gurgaon||As mobility plan gets relook, walkers’ safety in focus at junctions||Gurgaon: The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) will be soon carrying out a drive to mark or repaint zebra crossings across all the major junctions in the city to facilitate pedestrian movement. It will also install traffic signals wherever required. GMDA officials said the idea is to ensure that the pedestrians don’t face any issues while crossing roads at important junctions. “Zebra crossings at many locations are not visible or prominent. We are reaching out to traffic police to come up with a list of junctions where they need to be marked or repainted. Work will begin once we have the list,” an official said. The metropolitan authority also plans to install tabletop speed breakers at traffic junctions. The work will be executed by the mobility division of GMDA in consultation with traffic police. The move comes after GMDA chief executive officer VS Kundu said there will be an increased focus on non-motorised transport (NMT) infrastructure in the post-Covid era in order to control the number of cars and two-wheelers on city roads. TOI had earlier reported that GMDA’s mobility plan is likely to see some changes with more emphasis on infrastructure for two-wheelers and NMT. The draft of the plan has also been prepared and was supposed to be tabled in a meeting, but the lockdown delayed it. Now, the plan is expected to undergo another round of public consultation and some changes before it is approved. Talking about the mobility plan, Kundu said with social distancing becoming the norm in the post-Covid world, people are likely to use vehicles with just a single passenger. “We expect an increase in the use of two-wheelers such as scooters and motorcycles,” Kundu added.GMDA officials also expect an increase in the number of people using bicycles for shorter distances. It had published its draft mobility plan, prepared by Delhi’s School of Planning and Architecture (SPA), in September 2019 and sought public feedback. The report had included analysis and conclusions from a six-month-long extensive study of the city’s road network, public transport, traffic infrastructure, non-motorised transport and parking facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/as-mobility-plan-gets-relook-walkers-safety-in-focus-at-junctions/articleshow/77136822.cms||Shubhra Pant
July 24, 2020||Trichy||Asymptomatic patients below 35 years home quarantined in Trichy||Trichy: As the number of Covid-19 cases has gone up in Trichy in the past ten days, more asymptomatic patients are home quarantined instead of keeping them at the Covid care centre (CCC). More than 100 people were isolated at their homes in Trichy. The district administration has also planned to create additional Covid care centres in Trichy in view of the disease spread.Trichy collector S Sivarasu told TOI on Thursday that asymptomatic Covid-19 patients and those aged below 35 years have been advised for home isolation.As of Wednesday, 107 patients have been kept at home isolation out of the 1,029 active cases in the district. As of Thursday, the district recorded a total of 2,872 cases since the outbreak. As many as 481 patients have been undergoing treatment at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, while 176 patients were kept at the CCC on the Khajamala campus of Bharathidasan University as on Wednesday.Deputy director of health services (DDHS) Dr A Subramani said that the number of asymptomatic patients was also proportionately increasing. “Not all the patients will be advised for home isolation. They should be symptom free. If they have a separate room at home, they will be advised to be in home quarantine for seven days,” he told ToI.The public health department has resorted to advise only 10 days’ home isolation for Covid-19 positive patients after the gradual increase of Covid-19 cases. The number of people in home isolation has increased to 107 on Wednesday from 32 on Tuesday.In the past ten days, Trichy recorded 1,371 new cases taking the tally to 2,872 till Thursday.The DDHS said that patients will be evaluated by the doctors before they have been sent for home isolation. “In case of any symptoms such as fever, loose motion, loss of smell and taste sensation during the home isolation, they should visit the hospital and get them admitted for treatment,” he said.The oxygen level of the patients at home isolation should be checked and conveyed to the public health department officials. An officer said that it can be done by the patients on their own by using a pulse oximeter.The officials have given them a slew of instructions such as compulsory wearing of masks, isolation from family members, frequent hand washing and a healthy diet. Besides CCC at BDU, the collector also planned to set up a CCC at the government engineering college at Sethurappatti in Trichy.The officials said that around 500 patients can be accommodated at the facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/asymptomatic-patients-below-35-years-home-quarantined-in-trichy/articleshow/77137447.cms||Gokul Rajendran
July 24, 2020||Hubballi||Was withdrawal of lockdown in Dharwad a wise decision?||Dharwad: The rapidly increasing number of Covid-19 positive cases in Dharwad district has been a cause for worry, especially because the twin cities of Hubballi-Dharwad have a major share of positive cases. People are wondering whether the withdrawal of the lockdown was a wise decision. Considering the surge in positive cases and also recommendation from experts and various sections of society, the district administration had imposed another lockdown for 10 days from July 15. But the Tuesday’s announcement by chief minister B S Yediyurappa that there will be no lockdown anywhere in the state from Wednesday prompted the district administration to end the lockdown two days before the schedule, much against the wishes of experts and district minister Jagadish Shettar. As on July 22, the total number of positive cases in the district was 2,327, with nearly 40% of them being from Hubballi city. The share of Dharwad city is 30% — the rest are from the rural parts of the district. The medical fraternity, in coordination with the district administration, has been conducting tests and treating the positive cases, and has ensured that 813 people are cured and discharged. On Tuesday evening, the number of active cases stood at 1,544 in the district. With 39 deaths, Hubballi tops the list in casualties. Till Tuesday evening, the district had witnessed a total of 73 deaths due to Covid-19. However, the authorities in Hubballi are said to have failed in implementing the lockdown measures strictly and that is one of the reasons for the spike in the number of positive cases. Another reason is the failure on the part of the people, including political leaders and workers, in following the safety norms. When the lockdown restrictions were relaxed in a phased manner, people literally ignored the safety norms and allowed the infection to spread, said a senior physician.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/was-withdrawal-of-lockdown-in-dharwad-a-wise-decision/articleshow/77129642.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Trichy||More testing in Thanjavur, Tiruvarur||Trichy: The health department has increased testing in Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts following the spike in the number of Covid-19 cases for the last one week. According to officials from the health department, they have been doing intensive contact tracing, and testing more than 2,000 samples per day. “Apart from contact tracing and testing, we are conducting door-to-door survey and fever camps were set up. We have 31 testing centres including six mobile testing facilities,” district collector M Govinda Rao told TOI. The total number of positive cases recorded in Thanjavur on Thursday was 122 taking the tally to 1,542 cases. In Tiruvarur district, the authorities have enhanced the number of tests to 500 from 300 per day. However, Tiruvarur district recorded just 1 positive case on Thursday. Nagapattinam recorded only four cases on Thursday. However, the district has so far recorded 484 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/more-testing-in-thanjavur-tiruvarur/articleshow/77137448.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
July 24, 2020||Gurgaon||Govt takes more micro units out of Factories Act ambit in 2nd revision||Gurgaon: For the second time in less than a month, the Haryana government has made amendments to the Factories Act, 1948 to bring units with less than 20 workers out of its ambit. The amendments also allows women to work night shifts and made 28 offences compoundable. The previous amendment was made on July 6 which relaxed some of the rules for new factories and projects being set up in the state. Companies bound by this act cannot deny workers their fundamental rights, have to provide drinking water, toilets, first-aid, creches as per government provisions and comply with rules of annual of annual paid leave among other things. Now, workers at many more factories in the state will lose the above privileges. Even the companies that are under the purview of the act will be able to get away not providing the above by paying a fine. A copy of the notification mentioned, “No court shall take cognizance of any offence under this act except on a complaint by an inspector with the previous sanction in writing of the chief inspector.” Although the act now allows women to work between 7pm and 6am, the workplace has to have ‘adequate safety and security measures’ in place, the details of which will be announced in the coming days. Also, in order to employ women for night shifts, the companies will need an exemption from the labour department after safety arrangements are made. Just a couple of years back, the state government had allowed women workers to work between 7pm and 10pm. However, industrialists said this provision will barely make an impact as there aren’t enough women employed in the local industries, and those employed have not shown interest in opting for night shifts. “We cannot work in the night shifts firstly because it would not be safe and secondly, we can't leave the kids behind at home and work all night,” said Umpi Devi, a worker with a garment manufacturing unit in Udyog Vihar. The development has come as a big relief for micro industries who have been reeling from losses due the pandemic and the lockdown. “I can list out three benefits up front: one, we can increase the number of workers without having to worry about a licence, we will not have to hire more people for maintaining any records and thirdly, we will save the money spent on financial consultancy,” said Sunil Pawar, owner of a micro industry that manufactures auto components. Companies that are not under the act, do not have to apply for factory licences to operate, maintain records of workers, and adhere to timelines for payment of salaries, among other things. “The change makes it easier for us to scale up without having to worry about increasing our costs. This is definitely a step towards ease of doing business,” said Ranjit Singh, who has a micro industry for engineering parts. Industry associations, however, said that the government could have done more. “The amendments are definitely a welcome step. However, we had asked the government to exempt the industries with less than 50 people from the provisions of the Factories Act,” said GN Mangla, Gurgaon Industrial Association. In terms of the second amendment changing the nature of offences under the act from non-compoundable to compoundable, they said that while it will save the industry owners from making several visits to the courts, it could indeed encourage the menace that is ‘inspector raj’ (the malpractice wherein government officials unlawfully charge hefty fines from companies). “The amendment assigns great responsibility to the labour inspectors. The government must fix the amount to be paid for each offence,” said Deepak Maini, general secretary, Federation of Indian Industries, Haryana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/govt-takes-more-micro-units-out-of-factories-act-ambit-in-2nd-revision/articleshow/77136827.cms||Shubhra Pant
July 24, 2020||Delhi||No bail for riot accused caught on cam||New Delhi: A man accused of rioting has been denied bail as a video footage showed him being part of a mob running away with a crate of soft beverage Rooh Afza during the northeast Delhi riots. Chief metropolitan magistrate Purshottam Pathak said, “I have seen the video footage… where the applicant is present in the mob and is seen carrying a crate of Rooh Afza from the godown of victim Zakir Malik.” It also came on record that at least five shops were vandalised, looted and set on fire. Besides rioting, Dinesh Singh has been accused of robbery and “terrorising” the complainant. Special public prosecutor Manoj Chaudhary elaborated on Singh’s alleged role in rioting, vandalising, looting and arson of public and private properties, alleging that he was part of an unlawful assembly. Police relied on the CCTV footage to argue that Singh was carrying a crate of the beverage from the victim’s warehouse. However, his role in the rioting was yet to be determined by police. Some co-accused are yet to be arrested, police said. Singh’s counsel, Manoj Chauhan, sought bail on the ground that he is the sole breadwinner of the family and has hypertension and diabetes, besides his wife having a tumour. Chauhan also cited a delay in filing the complaint on June 19 while the incident took place on February 24, 2020. By the police account, the case attracts charges of just theft and robbery, Chauhan said. The bail was also sought on the ground that another accused was released earlier. An FIR was registered on the complaint of Abdul Rashid, whose shop was looted and set ablaze on February 24. While the investigation was on, Malik complained to police that his wholesale agency of soft drinks and beverages at Karawal Nagar was ransacked. The court observed Singh’s role had to be ascertained in other cases too. The accused has been arrested only on July 13 and the investigation regarding him is at an initial stage, it pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-bail-for-riot-accused-caught-on-cam/articleshow/77158422.cms||Aamir Khan
July 24, 2020||Jaipur||Cops recover Rs 1.18L fake notes in Barmer||Jaisalmer: The police recovered fake currency of Rs 1.18 lakh containing in a plastic bag from the roadside in Barmer on Thursday. The notes were in the denominations of Rs 2,000, Rs 500 and Rs 200. Police have launched an investigation into the case. Barmer SP Anand Sharma said the control room got information about the currency lying on the roadside. Bhakhada check-post in-charge Ranveer singh, rural police reached the spot and recovered the bag. There were 31 notes of Rs 2,000, 60 notes of Rs 500 and 130 notes of Rs 200. The notes were brought to rural police. Police lodged a case against unidentified people. Barmer deputy SP Mahaveer Prasad, SHO Pradeep Daga and police force reached the spot. He said that all notes are of different serial numbers and all are photocopies of original notes. In rural areas, miscreants cheat illiterate villagers by giving fake currency. These notes have been prepared for this purpose. Many times, while purchasing cattle, fake notes are given and cases of villagers being cheated come to light. Now, police are investigating as where these notes were to be used, whether these notes were to be given to someone else for cheating or some gang is active in Barmer is behind this. These notes have been seized under Section 102 of CrPC, he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-recover-rs-1-18l-fake-notes-in-barmer/articleshow/77136828.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Six lions released into wild after treatment||RAJKOT: Six of the over two dozen lions that were captured from Gir-east division in April-May were released in the wild after treatment on Wednesday night. The forest department had confirmed that some lions, especially cubs, had haemoglobin deficiency while some were suffering from babesiosis, an parasitic infection that affects the red blood cells. According to an official statement issued by the wildlife circle of the forest department, three lions each from Junagadh’s Sakkarbaug Zoo and Jasadhaar animal care centre were released. The pride included a lioness and five cubs that were released in the Savarkundla range. Meanwhile, the forest officials found the carcass of a lion aged between 5-8 years in Jafrabad range of Shetrunji division on Thursday. The body was found under an acacia tree. “The body bears no marks of injury or struggle and the carcass was sent for postmortem,” the statement added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/six-lions-released-into-wild/articleshow/77135291.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Rajkot||Ex-sarpanch hacked to death in Rapar village, 28 booked||Rajkot: A dispute over farm boundaries took an ugly turn in Kutch when a former sarpanch was brutally hacked to death by a group of nearly 28 people on the outskirts of Taga village of Rapar taluka on Thursday.Police said the group of assailants led by Haji Fakir Mohammed Hingroja, Nazar Mamad Hingroja, Din Mamad Hingroja and Tar Mamad Hingroja attacked 50-year-old Sajan Gaghala (50).“They were lying in wait for Gaghala on the way to his farm. When Gaghala drove to the spot in his tractor, they dragged him down from the tractor and hacked him with swords, scythes, axes, knives and iron pipes. Gaghala died on the spot,” said A P Jadeja, sub-inspector with Adesar police station. Preliminary investigation suggested that there was a bitter dispute over marking the boundaries of the farms belonging to Gaghala and the accused.The incident sparked off a widespread protest among the members of the Rabari community who had thronged the government hospital in Rapar. The community members, who had come from Rapar, Samakhiyali and Adesar, initially refused to claim the body, demanding the immediate arrest of the assailants. However, after the police promised them of action, they accepted the body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ex-sarpanch-hacked-to-death-in-rapar-village-28-booked/articleshow/77135319.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Lucknow||Pandemic claims 2 more lives, toll 65||LUCKNOW: The Covid-19 death toll climbed to 65 on Thursday with two more patients succumbing to the novel coronavirus infection. The victims included a 60-year-old man, who had no other ailment, but could not gauge that the short breath he was having was due to Covid-19 and collapsed due tohypoxaemia -- critically low blood oxygen levels. The second death was of an 85-year-old patient, also having comorbidities, died after battling with infection for 10 days. Both were under treatment at KGMU. “A 60-year-old patient, Gosaiganj resident, was admitted on Wednesday evening with severe breathing problems caused by Covid-19 and died within 10 hours due tohypoxaemia triggered by lung failure,” said spokesperson Dr Sudhir Singh. The 85-year-old resident of Rajajipuram was admitted to KGMU on July 13 and died of respiratory failure early Thursday morning. He had diabetes, high blood pressure and his heart valve had also been changed previously, said official. Of the total deaths due to Covid-19 so far, 45 have taken place in July. Another death at KGMU was of a 52-year-old man from Gonda. He was admitted on July 15 and had a history of diabetes and high blood pressure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pandemic-claims-2-more-lives-toll-65/articleshow/77136840.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Jaipur||‘Energy dept behind rising power losses’||Jodhpur: Farmers of Jodhpur have held the state energy department responsible for mounting power losses to discoms. Accusing them of targeting farmers, they said instead of focusing on actual causes leading to losses, discoms have unleashed their vigilance wings on farmers. Hundreds of farmers from the vicinity of Jodhpur have submitted a memorandum to the administration to draw its attention to their woes and warned of a massive movement if their demands were not addressed on time. According to Tulchha Ram Sanwar of Bhartiya Kissan Sangh, discoms have been carrying out vigilance actions on farmers to distract attention from the core issues causing loss to the power sector. “Instead of addressing the vital issues ailing farmers’ power needs and amelioration of the electrical transmission system, they have wreaked havoc on farmers. In the last 5 months, maximum action of the vigilance has been taken against farmers,” Sanwar said. In its drive against power theft, Jodhpur discom alone seized 106 illegal transformers in two months. Citing some of the important issues not being addressed, he said 70,000 agriculture connections and over 5 lakh domestic connections had been approved for the budget period of 2018-19 in Jodhpur discom area with an approximate load of 3000 mw. “For this, over 300 grid sub-stations (GSS) need to be built. But not even a third has not been achieved. This has caused mounting losses,” he said, adding that power transformers have been brought at many GSS but they were yet to be commissioned. According to sources, the losses are 15% for various technical reasons in an ideal electrical system, but on account of the increased power load and lack of proportionate extension of infrastructure, losses have been measured to 22%. Farmer Ram Singh said the existing GSS are overloaded and the incomplete feeders did not seem to be the priority of the discom. “The discom and the government need to look into themselves for the losses. They have been wasting millions in the name of maintenance and new purchases but the transmission mechanism has not improved proportionately,” said Singh. Sanwar added that the irrational policy decisions were the cause of losses to discoms and not the farmers. “Farmers are not given single phase connection and they are compelled to have 3-phase connections for even single-phase consumption, which causes load unbalance”, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/energy-dept-behind-rising-power-losses/articleshow/77136837.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Trichy||BDU begins online admissions to six constituent colleges||Trichy: Bharathidasan University has started issuing applications online for under-graduate courses in six of its constituent colleges from Thursday.A dedicated menu has been created for the same by the university on its website. TOI had reported on Tuesday about how there were no online platforms for the candidates to apply for the under graduate courses in these six constituent colleges run by the university this year. Government arts colleges and self-financial colleges started issuing online application soon after class XII results were out a few days back. However, BDU had been delaying arrangements for those willing to apply for the courses in constituent colleges. Registrar G Gopinath had said that the process of developing a dedicated portal to invite online applications was underway and testing process was on. After the testing process, the web link was shared in the university website.A faculty member from one of the constituent college said that every year some of the seats go vacant in these constituent colleges. “It’s been a week since state board Class XII results were announced. Other colleges started issuing online application the very next day of the results. But BDU was delaying the process which could have adversely affected the prospects of the colleges,” the faculty said. He expressed hope that more students will join these colleges for the fee structure almost equal to any government arts college especially when the pandemic has adversely affected families financially.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-begins-online-admissions-to-six-constituent-colleges/articleshow/77137450.cms||Sampath Kumar
July 24, 2020||Nashik||MIDC teams to ensure safety norm compliance||Nashik: Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) has formed teams comprising officials to ensure the industries maintain all the safety protocols, after some of the workers from industrial units tested positive for Covid-19. MIDC officials said it has been observed that the safety protocols are not being maintained by some of the factories. Some workers are reportedly eating lunch in groups without wearing masks. The industries should ensure that all the safety protocol are maintained during operations in their units, said MIDC officials. The officials said, “The teams will visit the industrial units to check if proper safety measures are being taken for the workers. We will also take action against the industries found violating the safety protocols.” According to industry sources, around 175 workers from 30 industrial units in Gonde, Sinnar, Satpur and Ambad industrial areas have tested Covid positive so far. Last week, over 90 workers from a single Gonde-based private company tested positive. Subsequently, others who came in contact with the Covid patients have been quarantined. MIDC has sent letters to industrial associations asking them to take all the safety measures in industrial units to prevent Covid-19 spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/midc-teams-to-ensure-safety-norm-compliance/articleshow/77134197.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 24, 2020||Vadodara||Police to seek court nod to attach properties of six cops||Vadodara: Even as seven teams consisting a total of 35 policemen have failed to trace six cops involved in a custodial death, the department has now decided to attach the properties of the runaway cops.A police inspector, a sub-inspector and four lok rakshak dal (LRD) jawans of Fatehgunj police station are facing charges of murdering a 62-year-old man named Sheikh Babu Nishar, who was brought to the police station as a theft suspect in December last year. The seven teams have been clueless about their whereabouts for the past fortnight.The attachment move is aimed at putting pressure on the accused to surrender themselves and face the trial. The accused disappeared in the first week of July after an FIR was lodged against them, causing a major embarrassment to the police department. The Gujarat high court recently directed the city police to book the accused cops for murder. Neither the cops have been traced nor Sheikh’s body which they are suspected to have disposed of.“We will soon move the court and file a petition for attaching properties of the accused cops. Their movable and immovable properties will be attached. We have already begun identifying their properties. They can’t remain absconding for a long time,” said a senior police official. Once they get legal permission, the department plans to first attach houses of the accused.While accused police inspector Dharmendrasinh Gohil’s home is in Palitana; PSI Dashrath Rabari is a resident of Kheda; LRD Yogendrasinh Jilansinh has his home in Sabarkantha; Rajesh Savjibhai is from Morbi; Pankaj Mavji belongs to Amreli and Hitesh Shambhu is from Bhavnagar.Police said that it has urged family members of the cops to convince them to surrender. “Our teams have also visited other states to get clues about their whereabouts,” said Anupam Singh Gahlaut, city police commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/police-to-seek-court-nod-to-attach-properties-of-six-cops/articleshow/77135654.cms||Tushar Tere
July 24, 2020||Kolkata||I stayed home to help break the corona chain||It had been work as usual for me throughout the lockdown months as I run a chain of speciality food joints. Home delivery of food was never stopped, not even when sit-and-dine at restaurants was prohibited. By God’s grace, we could manage to adapt to the new normal. But this time, when the government called for this different kind of a lockdown, I decided to stay home, to support the cause. I am no expert to say how much this biweekly restrictions would help to break the virus chain, but I am sure the government consulted virologists, who have their modules to say this kind of a sharp break in between will help weaken the spread. I am praying hard that it works out. I have also asked my domestic help to be home and not come on lockdown days. My wife and I will manage somehow, even if it’s tough. We hope to hear some good news at the end of the experiment about the virus curve flattening. That will bring back the much needed hope we all are looking forward to. This time, it seemed to have been planned well. Unlike the previous phase, when people could go to markets and grocery stores to buy essentials, this one saw a complete shutdown. People voluntarily stayed home. I hope they won’t make a mad scramble for markets and shops on Friday, as soon as the strict restrictions are lifted. But from what I have heard, most are likely to stay indoors on Saturday as well, and on all the lockdown days. Since these are single-day shutdowns, people should not worry about running out of essentials. (Balasubramanian, who runs a speciality food chain, spoke to Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/i-stayed-home-to-help-break-the-corona-chain/articleshow/77136202.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Trichy||Final year students upset over indecision on exams||Trichy: As the government cancelled even semester examinations for all but final year college students, the final year students, who are awaiting a decision on their pending exam, are a disappointed lot. Students in the first and second year of their undergraduate courses in arts and science colleges, undergraduate engineering students in their first, second and third years and first year postgraduate students will not have to appear for their semester examinations that were initially scheduled for May 2020. But the students in their final year, many of whom are waiting to complete their course to join the companies where they have been placed, are an anxious lot. So are some others waiting to pursue higher studies at various places. Faculty members in Trichy colleges opined that instead of cancelling the semester exam for final year students, who have faced examinations several times, exams should have been cancelled for those students who have been assessed lesser number of times. “There was no urgent need for cancelling examinations for students who are in not in their final years. The September deadline issued by the MHRD for conducting exams is yet to get over,” said a faculty member. However, another section of teachers said that cancellation of the exam for the students will allow the colleges to begin the preparation for the next semester. Some of the colleges have already started engaging students in online classes and the rest of the colleges can follow suit, after the announcement to cancel the exams. Saying that the possibility of conducting semester examination is remote, Tamil Nadu Government College Teachers Association (TNGCTA) suggested the state government can assess students based on their performance in previous semesters. TNGCTA general secretary, R Damodaran, said that 60 per cent weightage can be given for previous semester’s performances and 30 per cent weightage for the internal marks received in the last semester. Rest of the 10 per cent weightage can be given for attendance in the last semester.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/final-year-students-upset-over-indecision-on-exams/articleshow/77137455.cms||Sampath Kumar
July 24, 2020||Jaipur||Bank manager among 3 held for taking bribe||The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) of Jhalawar on Wednesday evening arrested a branch manager of Central Cooperative Bank Limited and two secretaries of Gram Seva Samiti of Bakani in Jhalawar district for allegedly taking bribe of Rs 15,000. The accused branch manager and the two secretaries had demanded the bribe from a farmer for sanctioning his Kisan Credit Card (KCC) loan file and for making the loan payment of Rs 5 lakh. The three accused, after their sample report tested them negative on Thursday morning, were produced before ACB court in Kota in the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bank-manager-among-3-held-for-taking-bribe/articleshow/77136841.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Rajkot||Man stabbed to death in revenge killing||RAJKOT: In an eye for an eye revenge incident, the man who had murdered a youth was stabbed to death by the father of a slain youth and his aide in Barej village of Porbandar taluka on Wednesday evening. Police said the accused, Jakhra Parmar and Ismail Dal, stabbed Veja Parmar (32) multiple times in his stomach, back and throat, killing him on the spot. “Veja had allegedly murdered Subhash Parmar, the son of Jakhra, in 2018, for which he was lodged in Porbandar Central Jail. When he was released on a month long parole, Jakhra decided to kill him,” said an official from Madhupur police station. “We have launched a manhunt for the accused who went on absconding after committing the crime,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-stabbed-to-death-in-revenge-killing/articleshow/77135335.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 4-year-old tiger dies in Mukundra||KOTA: A four-year-old tiger identified as MT–3, which had walked all the way from Ranthambore Tiger Reserve to Mukundara Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR) covering a distance of around 200km a year ago, was found dead under mysterious conditions near a waterbody in Mashalpura area of MHTR, on Thursday. The tiger, which was last spotted limping with one of its hind legs, had no external injuries. Vets who conducted the postmortemsaid it could have died of severe lungs infection or cardiac arrest. According to them, the tiger had lung infection and an enlarged heart with clots in the chambers. A three-member medical board comprising Dr Rajiv Garg from Swaimadhopur and Dr Akhilesh Pandey and Tejendra Reyad of MHTR conducted the autopsy on Thursday and later cremated the body in presence of CCF Anand Mohan, DCF T. Mohanraj, SDM Ramganjmandi and the DSP of the area. According to MHTR officials, the monitoring team had spotted MT-3 limping with left hind leg with no visible physical injuries following which monitoring was intensified and a pet was offered to the animal on the same day to check if there was any health related abnormality. But the big cat made the kill and ate it. When no improvement was seen in the animal, MHTR authorities sought permission for tranquilization and called Dr Rajiv Garg who reached Kota from Swaimadhopur on Wednesday. The animal was to be tranquilized on Thursday morning, but before the operation, it was found dead. The tiger had slowed down its movement since Friday and halted at a place on Sunday, deputy conservator of forests T. Mohanraj said. “Forest teams were regularly monitoring the animal and it walked around 15km daily. But nobody thought it would die so soon,” he added. “Severe infection was found in the lungs and blood clots and fat were found accumulated in the heart that were blocking the chambers. The size of heart had also enlarged,” Garg said. Samples of all the vital organs have been taken to send to a lab for examination to ascertain actual reason of death, he said, adding the mixed with blood and pus was pouring out the body of the tiger after its death and it indicated some long-term infection. Disappointed with the sudden death of MT-3, wildlife enthusiasts questioned the monitoring by forest officials in MHTR. ‘Had there been proper monitoring, the physical disorder or disease of MT-3 could have been diagnosed on time and the animal could have been treated,” Brijesh Vijayvergaya, a wildlife enthusiast in Kota, said. MT-3 was known as T-98 in Ranthambore Tiger Reserve and it was the offspring of tigress T-60.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-year-old-tiger-dies-in-mukundra/articleshow/77136854.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Trichy||Covid-19 waste generated daily rises several folds in central TN||Trichy: Covid-19 related waste generated per day has crossed 900kg per day in central districts as the number of positive cases has increased in these districts in the last few days. This is in addition to the 1.4 tonnes of medical waste generated from hospitals every day in the region. Covid-19 waste is collected segregated and incinerated at the common biomedical waste treatment facility (CBWTF) in Thanjavur. There has been a consistent increase in the volume of waste generated from 49 Covid-19 hospitals in the region as an average of 150kg waste per day was collected till first week of April. After hospital and households started generating Covid waste, the Central pollution control board (CPCB) in April this year directed that waste such as masks and gloves collected by local bodies should be sent to CBWTF. “Now that private hospitals designated as Covid hospitals are generating Covid waste and urban local bodies too have been collecting Covid waste separately from containment zones, waste generation has increased manifold,” said K Velmurugan, manager of Medicare Enviro Systems – the firm operating CBWTF. He said biomedical and Covid-19 waste are collected separately from hospitals in Trichy, Pudukottai, Sivagangai, Tiruvarur, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Thanjavur and Nagapattinam districts. 14 vehicles deployed by the firm with 40 staffers collect the waste from each district. They say coveralls used by doctors constitute a major share of 900kg Covid-19 waste generated daily. Leftover food by patients is another major constituent in the Covid-19 waste. The diesel incinerator installed at CBWTF can handle 150kg per hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-19-waste-generated-daily-rises-several-folds-in-central-tn/articleshow/77137451.cms||Sampath Kumar
July 24, 2020||Aurangabad||MUHS dental course students & parents against exam from Aug 4||Aurangabad: Several students have opposed the decision of the state health university to conduct final-year examinations for the BDS course from August 4 during the ongoing pandemic. A parent of a BDS student, who hails from Kinwat taluka in Nanded district and studies in a Nashik-based college said the university should have postponed the exams.“While almost every other examination in the country has been postponed, the authorities here are hell-bent on conducting the BDS examination. I fear for my daughter’s safety,” he said.Several students and parents have pointed out that many medical colleges, which are attached to hospitals, are treating Covid-19 .“Educational institutions, where the exams are scheduled, are not safe. Also, many students residing in Covid-19 hotspots will be appearing for the exams making the students vulnerable to infection transmission,” said another parent. Outstation students and parents have also highlighted serious issues related to travel, availability of food and accommodation. Ashok Belkhode, expert-member (health) of Marathwada Development Board, said the authorities must not put students’ lives at risk.“The students are not in the best frame of mind to appear for the exam. The authorities must postpone the examination,” he said. Belkhode also said the university must defer the admission process to BDS PG courses which is due in September. Vice-chancellor of Maharashtra State University of Health Sciences (MUHS) Deelip Mhaisekar said a section of students want the exam to be conducted from August 4. “The exams have already been delayed by more than four months. Students supporting and opposing them have sought judicial intervention. A decision will be taken collectively soon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/muhs-dental-course-students-parents-against-exam-from-aug-4/articleshow/77134217.cms||Prasad Joshi
July 24, 2020||Madurai||Half students in Trichy and Madurai colleges don’t have internet access||TRICHY/MADURAI: Online classes are widely perceived to become the order of the day, but half the number of students or a little more in government arts colleges in Trichy and Madurai districts don’t have access to internet, according to data furnished by arts and science colleges after a survey. However, data reveals that 75% of students in aided and self-financing arts and science colleges have access to internet. The director of collegiate education, Chennai, had asked arts and science colleges in the state to give details of the number of students having internet access recently to check the possibility of holding online classes and even pending semester examinations in view of the pandemic. UGC had made it mandatory for arts and science colleges to conduct semester examinations. If half the students do not have access to internet in the city, more in rural areas may not have it, said P David Livingstone, faculty member of English department of Government Arts College, Thuvakudimalai, Trichy. G Ramesh, , an associate professor of Government Arts College, Kumbakonam, said some students may have android phones but may not be able to recharge regularly for accessing internet. They cannot be considered as a student with internet access. He said roughly 45% students in his college may have internet facilities. At Sri Meenakshi Government Arts College for Women, Madurai, about 60% of the students have access to internet facilities. “When we ask them, students who access internet using their parents’ mobile phones also say yes. So, there is still a question of how many have access to full-fledged internet,” said Dr S Vanathi, principal of the college. Regional joint director of collegiate education (RJDCE), Trichy, T Arivudai Nambi, said 40-70% of students in the region comprising Trichy, Karur, Perambalur and Pudukottai districts have access to internet. A majority of students in government arts colleges are from rural areas and mostly from under-privileged sections of the society for whom android phones are still unaffordable. However, R Sundararaman, principal, National College Trichy (NCT), a government-aided college, said colleges need to prepare themselves instead of running away from reality. He said nearly 75% of students in his college have internet access despite a majority of them coming from rural areas. He said he came across instances in the recent year where students use scholarship money to get smart phones. (With inputs from Sukshma.R in Madurai)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/half-students-in-city-colleges-dont-have-internet-access/articleshow/77140406.cms||Sampath Kumar
July 24, 2020||Lucknow||UP STF nabs another aide of gangster||LUCKNOW: In another breakthrough, sleuths of UP STF arrested-Shivam Dubey another aide of ganglord Vikas Dubey who massacred eight cops in Bikru village on intervening July 2 and 3. ASP, STF, Vishal Vikram Singh said that 24-year-old Shivam was present on the day of the ambush as per electronic evidences and also statements of those arrested by Kanpur Nagar police. He was arrested from near Ghadi soap factory near Chaubeypur police station in Kanpur Nagar. Another STF official privy to the probe disclosed that Shivam was hiding at his maternal aunt’s place in Hardoi. He was apprehensive of police raids in Hardoi and hence decided to shift his location. During which an informer tipped off UPSTF and Shivam was nabbed. The double barrel gun used by him to attack the cops has already been seized by the Kanpur Nagar police, said the STF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-stf-nabs-another-aide-of-gangster/articleshow/77136849.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Video of man playing with lion cub goes viral||RAJKOT: A video of an unidentified man playing with a lion cub has gone viral on social media. It is learnt that the video was shot somewhere outside the Gir wildlife sanctuary. The squeaking cub tries to climb up the man’s legs. “The person, who is seen playing with the cub, has worn blue jeans. It is illegal to capture a lion cub. Only the forest department has the right to capture lions and other animals,” said a source. Senior forest officials said it was difficult to trace the location as no surroundings are seen in the video.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/video-of-man-playing-with-lion-cub-goes-viral/articleshow/77135383.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Delhi||Anaj Mandi fire report: Seven months & waiting||NEW DELHI: Almost seven months after a major fire in the Anaj Mandi area claimed 43 lives, municipal corporations in the city are yet to prepare the probe report. Following the tragedy, a committee headed by chief town planner of South Delhi Municipal Corporation was asked to submit a report on “commercial activities being carried out in residential areas in connivance with officials of different agencies across the city” within three weeks. Located in the Filmistan area near Rani Jhansi flyover, the Anaj Mandi locality housed several illegal industrial units. One such building caught fire on the night of December 9 and 43 labourers sleeping in the building had died. Taking suo motu cognisance of the TOI report “Another avoidable tragedy: Fire in the building with illegal units in heat of city kills 43,” the National Human Rights Commission had then issued a six-week notice to the ministry of housing and urban affairs to come up with a report. The ministry subsequently entrusted the responsibility to a special taskforce on January 6 and a deadline of three weeks was provided. Three weeks have long passed, but the report is not yet ready. In between, at least eight meetings have been held and several deadlines breached. A senior corporation official who is part of the probe said that a report was submitted to the taskforce by the chief town planner in June and all the members were asked to send comments. Officials also attributed some part of the delay to the coronavirus crisis. “Several members have not given their comments on the issue despite reminders and hence, the final report has not yet been forwarded to the ministry of housing and urban affairs,” the official added. Another taskforce member, however, claimed that the long-delayed investigation was back on track. “The sub-committee has filed a report stating that most of the factories operating in the area were running illegally. The report also talks about the problems in the area and suggests corrective measures. A presentation in this regard will be carried out in the next meeting. We have suggested that the authorities concerned must inspect the location before issuing any licence in the Anaj Mandi area,” the member added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/anaj-mandi-fire-report-7-months-waiting/articleshow/77136219.cms||Paras Singh
July 24, 2020||Kolkata||Air travel smooth but car permission was a problem||Multiple calls to the Kolkata airport, local police station and even Nabanna for the past two days led me nowhere as no one could say how I could get a permission so that our personal vehicle from our home at Dadpur in Hooghly could go to the airport to fetch us home on Thursday. I now live in Amritsar with my wife and seven-year-old daughter. Once my daughter’s school mailed us that the rest of the academic session would be held online this year, we decided to return to Dadpur. I had also been working from home in Amritsar. I took permission from my office to work from Dadpur. Accordingly, we bought flight tickets for Kolkata two weeks ago. After the Bengal government announced the biweekly lockdown, the first one being on the day of out arrival, the Kolkata airport alerted us that flights would be operational but there might be problems with transport. We called the local Dadpur police station, seeking permission to allow a driver to get out car to the airport to pick us up. But they claimed I had to call Nabanna for a permission. I called up the state secretariat but an official there said it was for the local police station to grant the permission. I called the police station again but to no avail. I then turned to a friend for help, who rented a car and sent it to the airport. Fearing we might be stopped on the road, I had travel documents and all other papers ready but thankfully, we reached home without a hitch. Once home, I called the local police station about our arrival and updated my status on Sandhaney app. (Mukherjee, an engineer, spoke to Mayukh Sengupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/air-travel-smooth-but-car-permission-was-a-problem/articleshow/77136218.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Trichy||Half students in Trichy and Madurai colleges don’t have internet access||TRICHY/MADURAI: Online classes are widely perceived to become the order of the day, but half the number of students or a little more in government arts colleges in Trichy and Madurai districts don’t have access to internet, according to data furnished by arts and science colleges after a survey. However, data reveals that 75% of students in aided and self-financing arts and science colleges have access to internet. The director of collegiate education, Chennai, had asked arts and science colleges in the state to give details of the number of students having internet access recently to check the possibility of holding online classes and even pending semester examinations in view of the pandemic. UGC had made it mandatory for arts and science colleges to conduct semester examinations. If half the students do not have access to internet in the city, more in rural areas may not have it, said P David Livingstone, faculty member of English department of Government Arts College, Thuvakudimalai, Trichy. G Ramesh, , an associate professor of Government Arts College, Kumbakonam, said some students may have android phones but may not be able to recharge regularly for accessing internet. They cannot be considered as a student with internet access. He said roughly 45% students in his college may have internet facilities. At Sri Meenakshi Government Arts College for Women, Madurai, about 60% of the students have access to internet facilities. “When we ask them, students who access internet using their parents’ mobile phones also say yes. So, there is still a question of how many have access to full-fledged internet,” said Dr S Vanathi, principal of the college. Regional joint director of collegiate education (RJDCE), Trichy, T Arivudai Nambi, said 40-70% of students in the region comprising Trichy, Karur, Perambalur and Pudukottai districts have access to internet. A majority of students in government arts colleges are from rural areas and mostly from under-privileged sections of the society for whom android phones are still unaffordable. However, R Sundararaman, principal, National College Trichy (NCT), a government-aided college, said colleges need to prepare themselves instead of running away from reality. He said nearly 75% of students in his college have internet access despite a majority of them coming from rural areas. He said he came across instances in the recent year where students use scholarship money to get smart phones. (With inputs from Sukshma.R in Madurai)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/half-students-in-city-colleges-dont-have-internet-access/articleshow/77137458.cms||Sampath Kumar
July 24, 2020||Kolkata||High-rises in Kolkata shut doors on helps, drivers to keep Covid at bay||KOLKATA: The new lockdown saw major high-rise complexes in the city renewing their restriction norms, prohibiting the entry of almost all “outsiders”, such as domestic helps, drivers, cleaners and guests, on Thursday. At most complexes, messages were sent to residents, asking them to stay indoors and step out only in case of extreme emergency. “We followed the government directive and didn’t allow anyone else, other than e-commerce delivery personnel and people delivering cooked food, inside the complex. Nurses and caregivers, for whom prior requests had been made by some residents, were allowed entry. Among residents, only doctors and medical professionals were allowed to go out,” said Debjani Mukherjee of Urbana Residential Complex. At Silver Spring on EM Bypass, less than 5% movement of people was reported at the entry gates. “We hadn’t imposed any bar from the association but the residents themselves observed the lockdown rather diligently. Even the domestic helps didn’t report to work. No one seemed to complain,” said Ashok Baid, a senior member of the association at the complex. At South City, e-commerce delivery personnel and those delivering food were allowed inside only after their temperature was checked. Even then, they could go till the reception area. “Residents were asked to collect their belongings from the reception later. Residents with medical emergencies and in the medical profession had no restriction on movements,” said Manak Daga, president of the residents’ association. Many complexes had also asked their facility management staff to stay back on the campuses for the weekend. At Upohar Condominium, security guards, lift operators, plumbers and electricians were retained on the campus. “The residents’ association has earmarked a portion of the AC community hall for them to stay. They have been provided with facilities to cook and sleep there. Residents are pooling in funds for the additional cost,” said Sudeep Ganguly, a resident. Similar arrangements have been made at Gitanjali Garden on Roy Bahadur Road in Behala and Identity Tower on Jessore Road. “Plumbers and electricians are housed in a lane next to the complex so that they are just a phone call away,” said a resident, Puneet Jhawar. With most families confining themselves to their flats, some complexes used the opportunity to fumigate and disinfect the premises. “We had sent out notices to all residents, asking them not to step out of their homes and stock up on essentials for the day as we conducted disinfection and sanitisation of the complex. Since the state has imposed fresh lockdown strictures, we have planned to utilize these days to disinfect the complex, including those portions that are often missed during regular drives,” said Neeraj Kapoor, secretary of residents’ association at Dimple Court on Shakespeare Sarani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/high-rises-shut-doors-on-helps-drivers-to-keep-covid-at-bay/articleshow/77136220.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
July 24, 2020||Jaipur||Non-NFSA beneficiaries can register to get ration||Jaipur: The food and civil supplies department issued an order to open the registration for distribution of the remaining foodgrains to the left out non-NFSA beneficiaries (belonging to 37 categories) in the state under Atmanirbhar Bharat scheme from Thursday. The registration will be done through e-mitra till August 3. The distribution date will be decided only after the registration is completed. According to an official, the state government has lifted 4.46 lakh quintals of foodgrains under Atmanirbhar Bharat scheme for the month of May and June at one go starting from the last week of May till the first week of June (the distribution was also done at one go). In fact, the state procured extra/additional foodgrains from FCI for these two months - 1.20 lakh quintals in May and 1.87 lakh quintals in the month of June (for this the state government had to pay), said the official. Of the total procurement of 4.46 lakh quintals of foodgrains under Atmanirbhar scheme, distribution of around 12-15% is still left to be done, said an official. “There are some who didn’t get ration despite registration. Even they will be given ration,” said the official. In Jaipur, of the total allotment of 74,568 quintals of foodgrains, 63,364 quintals have already been distributed to over 6.33 lakh non-NFSA beneficiaries in the month of June. Under the free ration scheme to non-NFSA and migrant workers 1 kg chana is distributed to each family every month and 5 kg wheat each is given to every family member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/non-nfsa-beneficiaries-can-register-to-get-ration/articleshow/77136865.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Babri case judge asks former BJP president Murli Manohar Joshi 1,050 questions||LUCKNOW: Denying his involvement in the alleged conspiracy with 'kar sevaks' to demolish the disputed structure in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992, BJP leader Murli Manohar Joshi stressed before the special CBI court on Thursday that he was completely innocent and was falsely implicated in 1992 Babri mosque demolition case due to political malice. The court is set to record the statement of former deputy PM LK Advani on Friday through video conferencing. Deposing before court through video conferencing, Joshi, said, “The investigation was conducted under political influence and he was charged on the basis of fabricated evidence.” On being asked by Judge SK Yadav why the witnesses gave evidence against him, Joshi replied, “All the witnesses are liars. They have deposed due to political reasons and under influence of the police.” As the judge showed him a photograph taken on the Ram Janmabhoomi premises on June 26, 1991, showing Joshi along with then chief minister Kalyan Singh and asked his explanation, Joshi told the judge that no negative of photograph was filed on record. The judge also referred to many newspapers in which articles were published on alleged statements of former deputy PM LK Advani and Shiv Sena leader Bala Saheb Thackeray regarding Ram Janmabhoomi and asked his response to them. Joshi said that the news items were false and were made part of the investigation owing to political malice. Referring to a CBI witness, the judge narrated him that on June 25, 1991, Kalyan Singh was sworn in as the chief minister and the next day he along with his cabinet colleagues went to Ayodhya at Ram Janmabhoomi/Babri mosque premises and then Kalyan reiterated the construction of temple at the site, chanting, “Ram Lala Hum Aayenge, Mandir Yahin Banayenge” and asked Joshi what he had to say about this, he replied that it was true that Kalyan went to Ayodhya, but rest of the averment was false. As many as 1,050 questions were asked by the judge from Joshi on Thursday through online proceedings and he categorically replied to all of them. Joshi was deposing from Delhi via a video link. As Joshi was appearing online from Delhi, his lawyers Vimal Kumar Srivastava, KK Mishra and Abhisekh Ranjan were present in the court. CBI lawyers Lalit Singh, P Chakrawarti and RK Yadav represented the central agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/judge-asks-joshi-1050-questions-he-pleads-innocence/articleshow/77136860.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
July 24, 2020||Mumbai||Couple exhausts Rs 4 lakh savings to feed 1,500 in Mumbai||MUMBAI: When students at Zeal school, a small educational set-up in Malwani’s densely packed Ambhujwadi, told their principal they couldn’t afford to pay fees during the lockdown, she decided to give them a three month waiver. But chatting with her students revealed some of them barely had two square meals a day. The principal, Mizga Shaikh, spoke to her husband, Faiyaz, and they decided to donate rations in the neighbourhood. Four months down the line, they have spent Rs 4 lakh from their personal savings and reached out to 1,500 people. The money had been saved up by the couple to buy a house. The beneficiaries of their donations cannot thank them enough. “The lockdown has been very harsh on residents of Ambhujwadi, many of whom are daily wagers. When classes halted abruptly and schools everywhere started online classes, we too decided to go ahead. But students said their parents owned a single mobilephone and if their parents went off to do odd jobs, they would take the handsets along. We still tried to make a bunch of students sit together for classes over ‘Zoom’. But their parents didn’t even have money to buy books. That is when I took my teaching staff into confidence and waived off fees for all students for three months,” said Mizga, 38, who has been running the school out of five rooms for a decade. The school is yet to get a government recognition. When parents told her they were finding it tough to put food on the table, Mizga and her husband approached family friends and colleagues to pool in a sum. They started off by purchasing dry rations locally from Malwani and distributing it among students’ families. “In the initial days of the lockdown, we stored sacks of rations inside the empty classrooms of our school. Gradually, a non-profit group chipped in,” said Faiyaz, 45. For eight weeks, the NGO organised for khichdi to be served to residents and the Shaikhs were involved in the distribution process. After the NGO packed up, the Shaikhs decided to continue the work. “We found out a place in Bhayandar where we could procure stocks from at better rates. We made 10 kg and 15 kg kits containing dal, rice, sugar, tea, oil etc. and started giving them out in Ambhujwadi. As word spread, some people living in Jogeshwari and Sion also came down for the rations,” said Faiyaz. The Shaikhs meticulously maintained a record of all the beneficiaries. The work took up a lot of their time and it also meant spending less hours with their own kids-- a 13-year-old girl and a 10-year-old boy. “But we will continue helping people as much as we can. Allah will help us save for our house again,” said Faiyaz, who works as a manager with a perfumes company, and has also dipped into his Provident Fund for raising money. Local youth have been volunteering to help with the ration distribution. Not only food, the Shaikhs have also shelled out for medical expenses for a youth who had an accident. “A 22-year-old family friend slipped in the bathroom and lost consciousness. He had to be administered stitches on his leg and when we approached the Shaikhs for help, they footed the entire hospital bill,” said Shehzad Shamsher, an Ambhujwadi resident. Watch Mumbai couple exhaust Rs 4 lakh savings to feed 1,500||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/couple-exhausts-rs-4l-savings-to-feed-1500/articleshow/77137206.cms||Nitasha Natu
July 24, 2020||Jaipur||No big investments, board tells RIICO to shift focus||Jaipur: Rajasthan seems to have lost focus in attracting large investments like Hero MotoCorp’s R&D Centre in Kukas or Honda Car’s investment in Bhiwadi in the past couple of years. In a recent meeting, the board of directors of RIICO had asked the PSU’s managing director to give priority to investment activity. The board even wanted the RIICO MD to give a statement detailing how many allotted plots have started production during the past eight years. Of late, the priority of RIICO has been on selling land through online auctions. But the board said, “Investment activity be given more focus as it may work as risk hedging of land activity.” When the decision to allot land through online auctions was taken after the new Congress government came to power, even senior officials of the department had doubts on its efficacy in attracting investors. “Even today, the auction mechanism is given importance. No big investors will come to the state by buying land through auctions. They require large chunks of land for big operations, but there is no definite policy. That is one of the reasons why Rajasthan has failed to get large investments after this government took charge,” said a senior official of the corporation. In the past one and half years, RIICO has not been able to acquire even an acre of land, as per official data. Land is a critical component of any plan for attracting investors. It’s not only the banks which have developed cold feet in lending. Disbursements of RIICO under its term loan facility have also fallen by 70% in the first quarter of the current financial year. The state PSU had disbursed Rs 13.49 crore in the June quarter but the same has come down to Rs 4 crore in the first quarter of 2020-21. In order to boost lending, earlier RIICO had given loans to realty projects much of which are now NPAs. Even though it reduced rates recently by 50 basis points to give relief to companies, its lending has fallen short compared to last year. In the current financial year, RIICO has set a lending target of Rs 80 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-big-investments-board-tells-riico-to-shift-focus/articleshow/77136868.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Nagpur||Hemmed in Kamptee cantt civilians hope for some respite||Nagpur: Inside the Kamptee cantonment, 78-year Ramesh Gupta, who lives in a sprawling British time old grant bungalow (OGB), says he has to wait for Mondays and Thursdays to visit his doctor. The cantonment’s gates are opened twice a week to let in outsiders or allow the insiders to go out. Gupta, who lives with his wife, could not get a pass that would allow him thoroughfare throughout the week yet. Each resident has to be get a pass. “One of the days when the exit was allowed I had an appointment with the doctor in Nagpur at 9 am but the gates only open after 10 am. Finally, the sentry relented,” he said. As Kamptee becomes another Covid hotspot, the cantonment, which remains cut off from rest of the area, has its own issues. The Mall is a stretch of over 100 British time bungalows owned by civilians. Apart from the rich living in huge estates, there are poor who have been living since years occupying servant quarters in some dilapidated homes left behind by their owners. Four persons were found Covid positive in The Mall too. The local administration is yet to take a decision on lockdown in the town, as the cantonment has remained shut since the beginning of Covid outbreak. Mahendra Bhutani, elected member of cantonment board, said, “Nearly 80 residents are still to get the permit. There are an equal number of persons wanting to come into The Mall for work, they are mainly domestic servants. Even those living in the town depend on employment at homes in the cantonment. In my own ward, 20-odd applications are pending.” The pass system began since April last week, said a local. A source said some of the workers manage to sneak in from the riverside, where they get some gaps, but that’s a risky affair. The affluent like Gupta may still manage with limited movement but patience is running out for those like Rakesh Kashia and his family. Rakesh, who takes up painting jobs, gets two days to go out. “I am jobless. Before the lockdown, my brother used to earn Rs15,000 a month. Now there is hardly any income,” said his brother Rahul. Being a Thursday, Rakesh was out on work. The family now depends on the family pension of Rs 8,000 received by their widowed mother. Soon others also gather with similar stories. “My husband has deserted me and I have to take care of my two children. I used to work in the homes of a couple of army officers but they have stopped my services since lockdown. I haven’t got the salaries for the period too,” said Pinki Vaishya, asking whether she could get a pass so she could go out and do some work. Other workers TOI spoke to said they had recently begun going out by showing their Aadhaar card. Shiv Walke, who did not get the pass, said now he uses the Aadhaar for movement. Earlier, he used to live in Kamptee and come on the days when entry was allowed. Some elderly couples said they had got a pass to let in their caretakers only about a fortnight ago. Vishnu Sharma, who is partially paralytic, said his physiotherapist, could start coming since last 15 days or so. Next door, Madhkumar’s troubles worsened as an old tree fell breaking his home’s kitchen roof. He awaits permission from the cantonment to get it repaired, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hemmed-in-kamptee-cantt-civilians-hope-for-some-respite/articleshow/77136245.cms||Shishir Arya
July 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Herd immunity possible even with lower infection rate’||AHMEDABAD: On Thursday, Prof Karl Friston, a neurologist, in a webinar organized by Indian Institute of Public Health, Gandhinagar (IIPH-G), reiterated his theory that it doesn’t require a very high number of infected persons in a society to achieve herd immunity. In his famous coinage, Prof Friston, scientific director of Wellcome Trust Centre for Neuroimaging Institute of Neurology at University College, London, has attributed the phenomenon of reduction in Covid-19 cases in specific communities after a sharp spike to ‘immunological dark matter.’ Prof Dileep Mavalankar, director of IIPH-G, said that the theory proposes that even at 20% to 40% of infection rate, the spike has been recorded coming down. “Like the dark matter in the universe – which cannot be detected but it’s impact could be felt, the phenomenon of coming down of cases could only be explained by such a concept. The Walled City of Ahmedabad is one such example,” he said. “Areas such as Jamalpur were major contributors to the daily case tallies and death tolls. But after the spike, it’s contribution is among the least.” Prof Friston in his lecture elaborated on the idea of immunity, how it gets developed in the communities and its context in current epidemic. He touched Indian context briefly with factoring in addition rate of cases, cumulative cases, location, infection, symptoms and testing to understand spread of the virus. “Not all in any community are susceptible to the disease. Some are highly susceptible, and others have a graded level of resistance to the disease due to various reasons – cross immunity due to past infections by corona viruses, or other similar viruses, some other infections or immunizations etc.,” said Prof Mavalankar. “We assume that for immunity, all people in the population are randomly interacting with each other. But in real scenario, it’s not how we behave. Prof Friston calls this interactive population as effective population.” But the researchers agree that Covid-19 is a new virus and we are yet to understand its spread and behaviour fully. However, hypothesis on the behaviour of specific areas or even countries can point at possible phenomenon which can help contain its spread, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/herd-immunity-possible-even-with-lower-infection-rate/articleshow/77136221.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Chennai||NGT orders ignored, new squatters allowed to eat into Pallavaram lake||Chennai: Ignoring the National Green Tribunal’s orders, Pallavaram municipality has allowed fresh encroachments on the Pallavaram lake, complain activists. After activists raised alarm, authorities cleared a portion of these encroachments. However, fencing stones, which were erected by encroachers to usurp the lake area, remain untouched. The 300-acre lake, which once was a drinking water source for local people, is now a dumping ground for garbage and large scale encroachments came up next to them. In 2009, the state public works department (PWD) identified 968 houses and shops as encroachers and issued eviction notices. Among them, around 120 approached the Madras high court and the case is pending. Meanwhile, another case was filed at NGT Southern Zone. A joint committee, headed by Pallavaram Municipality, was constituted to study encroachments and legacy waste dumped there. NGT SZ in February directed the municipality to ensure no more encroachments came up. In a matter of a few weeks, commercial establishments (sawmill and plywood units) were set up inside the lake area. These shops were owned by one named Selvam, said PWD sources. These units tried to create their own compound walls inside the lake premises by laying pillar stones. These pillars were at least 100 metres away from the authenticated boundary wall of the lake, said David Manohar from Arappor Iyakkam, NGO which raised flag. Besides this, the municipality itself hasn’t demarcated the boundaries. Clearly compound walls is being constructed conveniently inside the lake ignoring a patch of land which would later become permanent encroachments. It has happened quite a few times in the past, he added, referring to huge hoardings and small buildings in Pallavaram lake. While Pallavaram municipal commissioner C Mathivannan didn’t reply to queries, a senior Chengalpet revenue official said that the commercial units were removed on Tuesday and fresh survey was taken later. As far as legacy waste was concerned, locals said that though bio-mining plant was in operation to process waste, the end product (soil) once again dumped in the lake making the exercise meaningless.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ngt-orders-ignored-new-squatters-allowed-to-eat-into-pallavaram-lake/articleshow/77136222.cms||Ram Sundaram
July 24, 2020||Vadodara||82 fresh cases on 2nd consecutive day||Vadodara: The fears of Covid-19 showing a major surge this month came true with 82 new Covid-19 cases being reported in the city since Wednesday evening. This is the second consecutive day when the number of cases made a fresh peak. With the new cases in the city and district, the total number of cases went up to 3,919. The fresh cases were reported from 593 tests conducted since Wednesday evening. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) declared three more persons dead on Thursday taking the toll due to the viral infection to 70. The highest number of cases in the city were reported from the south zone of the VMC where 22 cases were detected. This was followed by the north zone with 18 new cases and the west zone with 13 new cases. Eight cases were detected in the east zone of the city. The areas of the district outside the VMC limits registered 21 new cases. These include cases from Simli, Karjan, Fertilizernagar, Bhayli, Ajwa, Atladara, Savli, Dabhoi, Padra and Chandod. As many as 42 persons were discharged from hospitals or home isolation in the city taking the total number of discharged patients to 3,149 including those who died due to comorbidities. This leaves 700 patients under treatment including 39 on ventilators or BIPAP machines and 128 on oxygen support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/82-fresh-cases-on-2nd-consecutive-day/articleshow/77135668.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: Doctors using innovative ways to keep virus at arm’s length||JAIPUR: Following Dr SL Tolani’s death due to post-Covid-19 complications, doctors are taking more safety precautions while treating patients at hospitals. In this regard, Indian Medical Association (IMA) has already declared red alert to doctors and medical administrators to raise their guard. IMA has directed the fraternity that personal protection equipment, physical distancing and sanitisers should be monitored on daily basis. Operation theaters, labour rooms and laboratories require special care. ICUs and critical care units deserve close scrutiny for adherence to best practices and protocols. Despite taking precautionary measures, more than 200 doctors and other healthcare staff have been infected with the virus in the state. “If we do not see patients fearing Covid-19, we will not do justice with the patients. I cannot sit at my house and leave needy patients to suffer. It is a war against Covid-19,” said Dr Virendra Singh, former superintendent, SMS Hospital and pulmonologist, who tested positive for Covid-19 three days ago and is now under home isolation. He is one of the doctors who have been infected with the virus while attending to patients, just like Dr Tolani did. Now, the doctors are using more stringent measures for their safety apart from wearing personal protection equipment, face masks and following social distancing. A lot of private hospitals have adopted some unique ways for preventing their staff from getting infected. “It is a habit among a lot of people that when they talk, they slide down their mask to the chin, exposing their nose and mouth to the environment, increasing the possibility of spread of the virus. To prevent this, the hospital staff, while sanitising hands of the visitors, also put an adhesive tape on the mask and face so that when they try to slide it down, they would not be able to do so,” said Dr MN Thareja, president Indian Medical Association (IMA), Rajasthan. Besides, doctors are also using ‘H-shaped’ bandage on their elbows as when they try to bend their elbow to touch any part of their face, they will not be able to do so. Also, they protect their eyes using face shields, while consulting patients at the out patient department. At Sawai Man Singh Hospital and other private hospitals, the administration is taking measures to keep their staff safe so that services remain unaffected. “We conduct a Covid-19 test on patients before we perform a surgery for gallbladder removal or the other surgeries we perform regularly,” said Dr Jeevan Kankaria, professor (general surgery), SMS Hospital. Besides, the private hospitals and nursing home society (PHNHS) demanded from the government that they should provide insurance cover to private doctors just like they have been providing it to government doctors. “We all are fighting for the same cause in these times. So, there should be no discrimination and also, the private hospital doctors or staff, if tested positive for Covid-19, should get free treatment by the government,” said Dr Vijay Kapoor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/docs-using-innovative-ways-to-keep-virus-at-arms-length/articleshow/77136872.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Man who robbed beggars, two aides held||CHENNAI: Most robbers target the affluent, but this homeless man targeted beggars in Mylapore, snatching their cell phones and cash. On Wednesday night, luck ran out for Suleiman, 23, when a police team nabbed them. His accomplices Dhanabalan, 23, and Shaktivel, 20, were caught later. Last week, police said, a pavement dweller was robbed and left with serious injuries to the head. A special team headed by Mylapore assistant commissioner Nelson and constables Thirunavukarasu, Ramamurthy, Thyagarajan and Rakumar collected CCTV camera footage from the scene of crime and found that the robber had his leg bandaged. On Wednesday night, SB-SID sub-inspector Augustin was passing through Royapettah when he noticed a man with a bandaged leg at the same spot and informed the special team which nabbed him. Police identified him as Suleiman and based on his confession, they arrested his accomplices. The special team also seized the bikes of the three men. Suleiman, a police officer said, lost his mother when he was 13. Not willing to live with his father, he left home and wandered the streets when a good samaritan admitted him to an orphanage. He found the disciplined set-up tough and took shelter under the Royapettah bridge that became his home. He began picking rags but spent his small earnings on ganja and liquor. In 2015, he robbed a pedestrian at Thiruvanmiyur but was caught and sent to a correctional facility in Kellys. “After coming out, he shifted focus towards beggars and pavement dwellers, believing they would be safer targets as they do not approach police,” said joint commissioner (east) R Sudhakar. Suleiman roped in Dhanabalan, who he knew from his days at the correctional home, and Shakthivel. The gang would attack beggars who were asleep and snatch their cell phones and cash, the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-who-robbed-beggars-two-aides-held/articleshow/77136231.cms||Sindhu Kannan
July 24, 2020||Ludhiana||94 new Covid cases in Ambala, 80 discharged||Times News NetworkAmbala: Ambala on Thursday registered as many as 94 new cases of Covid-19, pushing the tally of positive cases in the district to 1,146, while 80 patients were also discharged after treatment, said civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh.Of the total cases reported so far in the district, 225 are active cases, 10 patients died during treatment and 911 walked out of hospitals healthy after getting cured. The current recovery rate of the district is 79.49%.Among the latest cases, maximum 40 were reported from Ambala City area, 38 from Ambala Cantonment, five each from Barara, Mullana and Naraingarh, and one from Shahzadpur, according to the civil surgeon.On Thursday evening, the total number of samples collected for Covid-19 testing in the district stood at 30,822.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/94-new-covid-cases-in-ambala-80-discharged/articleshow/77136227.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Jaipur||Jodhpur to follow ‘Ramganj model’ to curb spread of Covid-19||JAIPUR: Concerned over the sudden spike in Covid-19 cases in Jodhpur, the health department will implement the same strategy which they have used in Jaipur’s Ramganj as both have similar socio-demographically challenging urban area affected due to Covid-19. “Since Ramganj and Jodhpur’s Walled City area have same sort of challenges, we will change our strategy in Jodhpur. The kind of sampling we had done for cluster management in Ramganj, we will follow the same random and cluster sampling in the Jodhpur,” said Raghu Sharma, health minister, adding that divisional commissioner and district collector have also tested positive for Covid-19 in the state. Including 243 new infections reported from Jodhpur, the state reported 886 Covid-19 cases in the state on Thursday bringing the tally to 33,220. However, 11 persons died too, in the state taking its toll to 594. Nagaur reported its 21st death, while two persons died in Pali taking its toll to 24. Jodhpur reported 74th Covid-19 fatality, while Jalore reported its 4th casualty. Alwar reported three deaths taking its toll to 14 and three died in Bikaner taking its fatalities to 30. Instructions have been issued to pay special attention in Bikaner, Pali, Barmer, Bhiwadi too and other such areas where positive cases are increasing due to super spreaders to prevent spread of the virus. Districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (243), Alwar (133), Jaipur (95), Pali (54), Ajmer (43), Sikar (42), Bikaner (41), Kota (41), Bharatpur (36), Nagaur (28), Dungarpur (17), Sriganganagar (15), Bhilwara (15), Barmer (12), Udaipur (11), Baran (10), Bundi (9), Churu (6), Hanumangarh (6), Sirohi (5), Banswara (5), Karauli (5), Dausa (3), Sawai Madhopur (3), Jaisalmer (2), Jhalawar (2), Tonk (2), Jhunjhunu (1) and Chittorgarh (1). However, 451 Covid-19 patients have been cured taking the tally of the recovered persons to 23,815 in the state. Active cases touched new high of 8810. Health department claimed that identifying asymptomatic patients in the state is a biggest challenge and such cases are detected only through testing. However, the fatality rate of the state has reduced to 1.38% which was 2.34% in June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jodhpur-to-follow-ramganj-model/articleshow/77136879.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Lucknow||181 women’s helpline to merge with 112||The state cabinet has taken a decision to integrate the 181 women helpline with the 112 police helpline. The decision comes in the light of the 360 women employees of the 181 helpline threatening to go on hunger strike in protest against not being paid for 11 months. In a statement issued by employees, they said that the women and child development department has a contract with GVK-MRI, which also operates 108 and 102 ambulance helplines for the 181 helpline. “Ideally we should have been paid by GVK, but because the department as primary employer has not given the budget to GVKsince February 2019, they have also not been able to pay their employees,” the statement said, adding that the call centre and rescue services have almost become defunct over the past few months. On Thursday, the government announced that 118 would be integrated with the 112 police helpline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/181-womens-helpline-to-merge-with-112/articleshow/77136875.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad district crosses 25,000 Covid-19 cases, doubling rate slows||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad district on Thursday crossed 25,000 cumulative cases with addition of 210 cases in 24 hours ending 5 pm. With the tally of 25,173, the district is seventh in India after Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Thane, Pune and Bengaluru to cross the landmark numbers. The district currently accounts for 48% of state’s cumulative cases. However, on positive note the district’s doubling rate has slowed down – it took 51 days for the district to double the cases from 12,500 compared to 21 days for the journey from 6,250 to 12,500. On Thursday, after 20 days, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) area recorded the highest cases in 24 hours, leaving behind the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) area. However, Surat district cumulatively recorded more cases than Ahmedabad. The new cases included 256 from Surat, 210 from Ahmedabad, 82 from Vadodara and 59 from Rajkot. With the update, July became the month with the highest additions – in first 23 days, the state added 20,100 positive cases. The deaths included 14 from Surat, five from Ahmedabad, two each from Kutch, Patan and Vadodara and one each from Bhavnagar, Botad and Morbi. A total of 718 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 37,958. The discharges include 205 from Surat, 203 from Ahmedabad, 71 from Vadodara and 52 from Bhavnagar. With the update, the state now has 12,348 active patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-dist-crosses-25k-cases-doubling-rate-slows/articleshow/77136237.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: 31-45 age group worst hit in Delhi’s West district||NEW DELHI: In Delhi’s West district, the novel coronavirus hit people in the 31-45 age group the most, while those in the 75+ age group were affected the least, and nearly twice as many men died of Covid-19 than women in the district. Delhi government’s serological survey determined that only 19.1% of the district population fell prey to the coronavirus. The detailed analysis of Covid cases and deaths in West district shows the gender ratio is considerably skewed, with 62% of the infected population being male. As for mortality, the most to succumb are in the 61-75 age group. The gender data is interesting, putting the number of men at 6,307 against 3,853 women among the 10,160 Covid-19 positive individuals till July 14 (the count went up to 11,297 cases and 357 deaths till July 22). It is surmised that the higher male infection is due to men being involved in more outdoor activities than women, thus more exposed to the coronavirus. A doctor added that there were comparatively fewer deaths among women in the district probably because they tend to have stronger immune systems. The mortality list of 320 till July 14 has 210 men (65.6%) and 110 women (34.4%). An expert said similarly skewed gender ratio of Covid-19 infection and death has been reported across the globe, the reason for which is as yet unclear. With 25.4 lakh people in the 2011 census, West district has the third highest population among Delhi’s 11 districts, the two above it being North West with 36.6 lakh and South with 27.3 lakh people. It has many middle-class areas like Patel Nagar, but also a large presence of unauthorised colonies. The first case in the district was reported on March 4 and the first Covid death on March 13. Among the 10,160 cases in the district, 3,123 people are in the 31-45 age group, 2,780 are less than 30 years old, 2,579 persons are in the 46-60 age group and the rest above 60. Among the infected, 275 individuals are above 75 years old and 1,403 between the ages of 60 and 75. The low Covid prevalence among the elders seems to indicate that many in this vulnerable group are avoiding outdoor activities and are well protected. The authorities carried out 40,603 rapid antigen tests and 83,675 RT-PCR tests. The positivity rate in RT-PCR test declined from 30% on June 26 to 13.8% on July 12. The positivity rate in the rapid antigen tests also went down from 12.4% on June 24 to 5.2% on July 12. Dr Niraj Roy, surveillance officer for West district, claimed effective containment strategy, quick hospitalisation of moderate and serious cases, extensive testing for early detection and isolation of the positive cases and contact tracing and the surveillance of high-risk groups helped the district administration bring down the positivity rate and death rate. “Compared with 5-6 deaths every day earlier, now the district is witnessing only 1-2 deaths per day,” Roy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/31-45-age-group-worst-hit-in-west-district/articleshow/77136250.cms||AlokKNMishra
July 24, 2020||Kolkata||One of Kolkata’s first locked-down towers now on containment zone list, residents back indoors||KOLKATA: Residents of a condominium in south Kolkata who had put themselves in self-imposed lockdown even before the state government had announced complete lockdown in Bengal, have once again decided to remain indoors for the next one week after a portion of the complex was cordoned off as a containment zone on Wednesday. Entrance to one of the two towers (Tower 2) of Fort Oasis on Panditiya Road in south Kolkata was sealed with guardrails and cops were stationed outside the building to ensure none of the residents living in the 100-odd flats could come out of the building and move around. “All the residents have been asked not to step outside their homes for the next seven days. Outsiders like maids, drivers, helps and e-commerce delivery personnel have been barred entry during this period. For us, lockdown has again begun early,” said one of the residents of the building. The building was included in the containment zone list on Tuesday, as the number of total containment zones in the city dipped to 28 from 32. The complex became the first condominium in the city to be included in the new sets of containment zones since their introduction earlier this month. The building has around six active cases of Covid-19 at this moment. “On Wednesday, cops came in the morning and gave a two-hour window to us to buy whatever essentials we need. We did the same and from 2pm , our building has been under complete lockdown. We are communicating with the rest of the flat owners on our WhatsApp group and it has been decided that whoever may be in need of something will post it on the group and the residents’ association will arrange it and bring it outside the building from where we will collect the same,” said another resident of the building. On March 20, two days before ‘Janta Curfew’ and a day before complete lockdown began in Bengal, the condominium complex on Panditiya Road had woken up to the chilling news that the dreaded virus had reached their doorstep after a resident of Tower 2 tested positive for Covid-19. The same day, the complex association sent messages to all apartment owners asking them to stay indoors indefinitely and closed the complex gates to prevent movement of residents as well as outsiders, including maids, drivers and guests. Later, two other members of the family and their domestic help also contracted the disease and were subsequently hospitalised. “The residents have been asked to follow the containment protocols and stay inside their homes during this period. The KMC will carry out sanitization drive at the complex,” said a KMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/one-of-citys-first-locked-down-towers-now-on-containment-zone-list-residents-back-indoors/articleshow/77136240.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
July 24, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Have concrete clues in infant abduction case, say police||JAIPUR: Police on Thursday said it had concrete evidence about the kidnappers of a one-year-old child who was abducted from Pratapnagar on Wednesday. Police are working on various possibilities including involvement of gangs that put kids to begging or the ones who pick up girls for prostitution. Police have also grabbed some CCTV camera footage and detained a few persons for interrogation. “Since the family is poor, there is no possibility of kidnapping for ransom. There could be two possibilities — kidnapping to put her to begging or to drive her into prostitution.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/have-concrete-clues-in-infant-abduction-case/articleshow/77136884.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Lucknow||Test all inmates in UP prisons: CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said that prisons in Azamgarh, Lucknow, Gautam Budh Nagar, Bareilly and Chitrakoot should be developed as high security prisons. He said the spread of Covid-19 in prisons should be prevented at any cost. All prisoners and jail staff should be tested and if someone is found infected, immediate action should be taken. He especially stressed on the need to maintain sanitization and sanitation in jails. While reviewing the need for modern technology equipment in prisons to strengthen their administration and security, Yogi on Thursday said that non-linear junction detector, dual baggage scanner, full human body scanner, contactless glass for meeting rooms, drone camera, body worn cameras, night vision binoculars, high capacity handheld metal detector, fencing, should be arranged at these prisons. Asking for a proposal to be prepared for the need of equipment and machines required for jails, he said that modern technology should be used to strengthen security arrangements, inspection and communication in prisons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-test-all-inmates-in-up-prisons/articleshow/77136887.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to pay Rs 23 crore water bill for lockdown period||CHANDIGARH: The city residents owe nearly Rs 23 crore to the Chandigarh municipal corporation in unpaid water bills for the months of May, June and July, civic body officials said on Thursday. The engineering wing of the corporation calculated the said amount, which was not demanded by the civic body from the water usage in view of the Covid-triggered lockdown and curfew. The corporation has decided to not charge the consumers any additional amount like late penalty for the bills generated during the said period. The civic body is also giving an option to pay the water bills in instalments, so that the consumers do not feel any face any financial trouble. “The consumers can pay either in one go or in instalments over the next few months, whichever is convenient for them,” said an official dealing with the subject. As per the civic body records, there are approximately 1.80 lakh water consumers in the city, including all categories like residential, commercial, institutional etc. The corporation spends Rs 170-180 crore per annum to supply water to the consumers of the city, but it earns only Rs 80-90 crore from the exercise. Although the MC general house had revised upwards the water charges a few months back, later members of the house demanded reconsideration of the decision and since then, the matter lies in limbo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/city-to-pay-rs-23cr-water-bill-for-lockdown-period/articleshow/77136238.cms||Deepak Yadav
July 24, 2020||Jaipur||Bikaner: Man kills wife, two children; ends life||JAIPUR: A man killed his 30-year-old wife, two children, including daughter (4) and son (9) at Surajada village under Gajner police station area of Bikaner on Thursday. Later, he also committed suicide by hanging from the ceiling of the house. However, two other children were saved as they were slipping with their grandfather. According to police, the man identified as Jetharam Meghwal (34), strangulated his wife Sharda, daughter Ayesha and son Jitendra, while they were sleeping during early hours. “After killing the family members, the accused committed suicide by hanging from the ceiling. A team rushed to the spot and took the bodies for post-mortem,” said a senior police officer. Police added that Ravi, another son of Meghwal, heard something in the middle of night and screamed. “He was sleeping with his grandfather and sensed something. However, the grandfather asked him to sleep as he believed the child had a nightmare,” said Sunil Kumar, additional SP, Bikaner (Rural). Family came to know about the incident at 4am when villagers gathered at the spot and informed the police. “We have visited the spot and spoke to family and villagers as there is no foul play in the case. It is evident that the accused killed his wife, two children and later committed suicide. The family also informed that he was under treatment for some mental disorder. He had recently stopped taking medicines,” Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-kills-wife-two-children-ends-life/articleshow/77136888.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Chandigarh||13 cases in Panchkula||tnn Panchkula: Panchkula recorded 13 cases of Covid-19 on Thursday.The case count of the district has now increased to 369, including 222 active ones.Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Jasjeet Kaur said, “Of the 13 cases, one is yet to be traced.Besides, 12 from outside the district have tested positive here.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/13-cases-in-panchkula/articleshow/77136249.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Nagpur||GST sleuths do better during Covid times, recoveries triple than last year||Nagpur: Sleuths in the Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST) department have delivered more in Covid times. The number of GST evasion cases processed at Nagpur zone of Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGSTI) have gone up by 46% from April to June as compared to the same period last year. The amount netted as voluntary payment by alleged evaders too has trebled during the quarter as compared to the same period in 2019, said sources. Sporting PPEs, taxmen have also conducted raids against five business establishments in Nashik and Nagpur. Last year, no cases of fake invoices were registered during this period. As against this, DGGSTI has probed eight cases from April to June in 2020, involving an amount of Rs12 crore, said sources here. The Nagpur zone covers 24 districts of Maharashtra with offices in the city, Aurangabad and Nashik. Last year, the DGGSTI here had taken up 26 cases of tax evasion, involving default of Rs71.96 crore from April to June. Out of this the assessees had paid up Rs68.59 on voluntary basis. This year, it has taken up 46 cases involving an amount of Rs223 crore and Rs193 crore has been paid up so far. “As regular investigation and summoning of assessees for questioning is low due to the pandemic, the focus was on finishing old cases. As the load of fresh cases was down, old cases could be processed better, leading to higher tax collection,” said a source in the department. Fresh investigations have not been given up altogether however. Officials visited offices and factories during raids wearing PPE suits. “The officials are expected to wear suits whenever they visit areas like factories, where they are likely to come across a large number of persons. Each official has been allotted a suit. Though it’s cumbersome to work wearing the suits, its part of the standard operating procedure (SOP) these days,” an official said. The pandemic has also led to the department moving towards a paperless office. The dependence on physical files has been drastically reduced and within a month the DGGSTI office here is expected to completely shift to electronic mode. Other procedures like questioning of assessees has slowed down. A designated area has been earmarked for grilling the assessees. Only one person is taken in at a time. Earlier, as many as 5 to 6 persons would be questioned at a time, a source said. The lower level staff, who are employed on daily wage basis, are now being picked and dropped in department vehicles to do away with the need for using public transport, an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gst-sleuths-do-better-during-covid-times-recoveries-triple-than-last-year/articleshow/77136259.cms||Shishir Arya
July 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ensure no prisoner contracts Covid: HC||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has ordered jail authorities to take care of prisoners as soon as they run a high temperature or show Covid-19 symptoms and to protect them from the disease by screening of prisoners who return on expiry of their bail or furlough. Rejecting a PIL demanding equal treatment for convicts and undertrials so far as temporary release due to pandemic is concerned, the bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala observed, “It is for the jail authority to take all necessary precautions before any convict or undertrial accused on expiry of bail period comes back to the jail and surrenders. At that point of time, the jail authority has to take care to ensure that none of the accused persons be it a convict or undertrial are running a temperature or are exhibiting any such symptoms pointing towards the Covid-19 infection.” The HC said so because the petitioner expressed fear of the spread of Covid-19 among inmates inside prisons and requested the HC to consider granting temporary release to convicts also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ensure-no-prisoner-contracts-covid-hc/articleshow/77136256.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Rising cases: Pkl DC meets paramilitary top brass||Panchkula: The deputy commissioner held a meeting with the DIGs of CRPF and ITBP over increasing corona cases in the paramilitary forces and also checked the arrangements made by them. In the meeting with ITBP DIG Satish Sharma and CRPF DIG Sunil Thorpe, DC MK Ahuja took the details of the Covid-19 centres made and facilities available at both the para-military forces stations— ITBP, Bhanu, and CRPF, Pinjore. The DC asked them to prepare a list of persons suffering from high-risk diabetes, blood pressure, cancer, pregnant women and people above 60 years of age. Persons coming to the canteen for sale and purchase of goods should be medically examined, it was suggested in the meeting.Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Jasjeet Kaur was asked to take samples of milkmen and sanitation workers coming to the district from outside. DCP Mohit Handa, city magistrate Shushil Kumar, Panchkula SDM Dheeraj Chahal, Kalka SDM Rakesh Sandhu and other administration officers were also present. Till now, 40 cases from ITBP and 22 from CRPF have been reported. It was said that more Covid-19 check centres were required to be built by the Panchkula administration, CRPF and ITBP. Tracking virus in Pkl Total Covid-19 cases in Panchkula: 369 From other districts/states: 92 CRPF, Pinjore, personnel: 22ITBP, Bhanu, personnel: 40||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rising-cases-pkl-dc-meets-paramilitary-top-brass/articleshow/77136252.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
July 24, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Neighbours flood cops with quarantine-violation complaints||KOLKATA: The local police stations are receiving complaints from neighbours of Covid patients that the latter’s kin are not following the rules of quarantine. The cops are now mulling surprise checks by beat constables, along with constant monitoring through phone, to keep an eye on those breaking quarantine rules. These people risk the chance of facing legal action, said a senior Lalbazar officer, adding that the Disaster Management Act bars anyone from breaking quarantine with impunity. The two most recent complaints have been from the ward coordinators themselves. In the first case, a former councillor alleged that a man was seen travelling in his car multiple times along with his family (wife and son) and the maid servant, who too is Covid-positive. The man from Patuli, though, alleged that his neighbours had framed them and then abused him. The police said the other complaint has come from Kankurgachhi where a Covid patient’s wife had continued going to office. “With cases of home quarantine increasing, it might not be possible to check all cases of violations unless the neighbours pitch in with help. For each complaint, we are investigating the case and are counselling the concerned Covid patient and the kin,” said an officer. The police have so far not registered any case against anyone. Elsewhere, across Ultadanga, Phoolbagan, New Alipore and Tala, ward coordinators recounted how apartments refused entry to KMC workers for swab test. For example, a camp set up at A and P blocks of New Alipore saw only a couple of participants for the swab test. “The people at the slums are cooperating with important health updates. The apartments have remained a problem,” said a police officer. Earlier, chairman of the KMC board of coordinators, Firhad Hakim, had spoken about the need of residents to allow KMC officials to come in. According to the norm, a patient can opt to stay at home once his Covid test turns positive. “The health department makes the first call and it is here the patient cites his doctor to opt for home isolation. The health department prepares a list and then sends it to KMC and police. Both these agencies then use a telecaller to confirm the patient’s wish. It is then that two officials of KMC make a visit to the facility. If they are satisfied — looking into the patient’s medical history and his residence (if there is a separate room and bathroom) — they ask a few forms to be filled. A final clearance is finally given after which the cops call up to ensure that the patient is still at home,”said a KMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/neighbours-flood-cops-with-quarantine-violation-plaints/articleshow/77136265.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 24, 2020||Bhopal||Barring medical & milk outlets, all shops to stay shut for 10 days||BHOPAL: Except for medical shops and milk parlours, no other shop will open during the 10-day lockdown at Bhopal beginning Saturday. Guidelines for the lockdown issued by district collector Avinash Lavania, say the provision of vegetables would be made by the BMC in accordance with directives received from the district administration. Grocery will be available at Sanchi Milk Parlours. Petrol pumps, LPG outlets and PDS shops will also remain open. Milk vendors and newspaper hawkers will be allowed to ferry houses and distribute milk/newspapers from 6.30 am to 9.00 am and they will need no pass for it. People engaged in emergency services or carrying out essential services will be allowed to go out for work but they will have to carry their ID with them. Revenue-earning offices of the government will function with 30% capacity and other government offices with skeletal staff. State-level offices like Mantralaya and directorate will function as decided by the general administration department. People will normally not be allowed to come on road but if required, they can go to nearest milk booth or medical shop to fetch the required stuff. People going to airport, railway station or bus stand to go out of the city and those coming in from there won't be stopped. Loading and unloading vehicles or vehicles carrying goods and passengers on the state and national highway will not be stopped. Border of Bhopal district will remain sealed. All offices and commercial establishments barring those who have special permission will remain closed. Buses, taxis, auto rickshaws, e-rickshaws will not be on the roads. Schools, colleges will continue to be closed, any kind of assembly will not ve allowed, hotels/restaurants and shopping malls will also remain shut . Places of worship will also remain closed. Construction activity may continue at places where workers at the site have not to be brought from anywhere and vehicles carrying workers to industries will be allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/barring-medical-milk-outlets-all-shops-to-stay-shut-for-10-days/articleshow/77135455.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Chandigarh||76-year-old owner of three fuel stations kills himself||Panchkula: A 76-year-old Mohali resident committed suicide by hanging himself at Red Bishop, Sector 1, here, late on Wednesday night. Owner of three petrol pumps, he has accused Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL) officials of harassing him. Cops said Guru Kirpal Singh Chawla — a resident of Sector 69, Mohali, and owner of fuel stations at Mohali’s Phase 7, Daon village (between Kharar and Mohali) and Fatehgarh Sahib by the name Chawla Filling Station — was found hanging in his hotel room. Red Bishop staff told police that Chawla had checked in at 7.30pm and directly went to his room. Around 9.30pm, when his family members called him, his driver picked up the phone, saying he was at Red Bishop. They asked him to immediately check Chawla’s room and they also rushed there. The driver knocked the door, and when it was not answered, he called the hotel staff, who broke open the lock. They were shocked to see Chawla hanging from the ceiling fan. Manager of the hotel called up the cops and in the meantime the family also reached there. A police team, along with forensic experts, rushed to the spot and after collecting samples and other evidence, took the body to the mortuary of the Sector 6 civil hospital. In a suicide note found in the room, the victim has allegedly mentioned names of Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited officials for harassing him and creating trouble in his business. The body was handed over to the family after the post-mortem on Thursday. Sources said Chawla was disturbed due to problems in his business and had mentioned it to his family a number of times. Before going out of his house on Wednesday, he had told his family members that he would commit suicide. Sub-inspector Rakesh Kumar, in charge of Sector 7 police post, said, “The victim checked in alone at the hotel and nobody went to his room. The suicide note will be verified by the experts before starting investigation against the names mentioned in it.”Cops have registered a case under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the IPC at Sector 5 police station. ‘He wanted Mohali fuel prices same as UT’Mohali Petrol Pump Association president Ashwinder Mongia said this was a very unfortunate and sad incident. “Kirpal Chawla was fighting to take petrol and diesel prices on a par with Chandigarh. In July 2019, during a press conference, he had sought permission from the Punjab government and Union ministry for committing suicide as his business was running into losses. We sat on a hunger strike together in 2016 and then politicians assured us that they would take up the issue with the Centre. All filling station owners in Mohali are facing losses, as people prefer to go to Chandigarh or Panchkula, where diesel is Rs 2 and petrol is Rs 5 cheaper. Our tie-up with truck unions also ended as they also preferred Chandigarh or Panchkula. On the other side, oil mafia is active in Mohali. Petrol and diesel are purchased in bulk from Chandigarh and sold in Mohali. Our association has been fighting the issue since 2010. The government must support us and create a fair playing field.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/76-year-old-owner-of-three-fuel-stations-kills-himself/articleshow/77136263.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
July 24, 2020||Jaipur||Gehlot meets governor again, says will call assembly session & prove majority||JAIPUR: The political crisis in Rajasthan is headed for a showdown in assembly with chief minister Ashok Gehlot meeting governor Kalraj Mishra for the second time in six days, late on Thursday. The meeting at Raj Bhawan lasted nearly 20 minutes. Earlier in the day, Gehlot said an assembly session would be called soon and his government would show it was stable and in majority. The chief minister hinted at the ruling party going for a floor test when he expressed hope that many among the dissidents would “vote” for his government. “We will discuss corona and politics, both,” Gehlot told reporters in response to a question outside the hotel where Congress legislators supporting him were corralled since July 13, a day after former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot said the Gehlot-government was in minority and issued a statement claiming support of 30 MLAs. “We have a full majority and are united, so we are staying here,” the CM said on Thursday. Referring to the 19 dissident Congress MLAs in the Pilot camp hiding outside the state, Gehlot said, “They are being forcefully kept in a hotel guarded by bouncers. They are making phone calls to say they want to return but can’t. I hope many of them, when they come, will vote for us.” Gehlot added, “Otherwise also, we have a complete majority on our own.” Political events in the desert state took a turn after the Supreme Court declined to stop the Rajasthan High Court from delivering a verdict on the dissident Congress legislator’s plea challenging the Speaker’s disqualification notices early in the day. The high court was to pronounce judgment on the dissident legislators’ joint petition challenging show-cause notices issued by Speaker C P Joshi based on Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi’s plea that they had failed to attend two consecutive Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meetings on July 13 and 14, despite a whip. In a request-cum-directive order, the high court had refrained the Speaker from acting on the notices till it delivers a verdict on Friday. The high court, however, was unlikely to give its verdict at this stage with the Pilot camp moving an application on Wednesday, saying that the Union should be made party to the case since the constitutional validity of Schedule X has been challenged. “There is very minimal chance of any final order being passed on Friday because the matter has now been listed in the category of ‘reply not filed’. The court may grant time to the Union to file a reply,” said Prateek Kasliwal, counsel for speaker C P Joshi. While referring to the dissident MLAs, Chief minister Gehlot said, “Those who got misled and made a mistake have gone to the court now. There is just one point—is the Speaker’s notice correct or not. It has no connection with the anti-defection law.” “We held one CLP meeting at the chief minister's residence and another at the hotel to give an opportunity to those who had gone to Delhi to return, but they didn’t. Our chief whip petitioned the Speaker that the MLAs intend to leave the party. There are several verdicts of the apex court that if an MLA’s intention to leave the party voluntarily gets known, the speaker can issue notice, record reply and take a decision.” On being asked if the constitutional bodies were heading for a conflict, the CM said, “It should be avoided. We respect the judiciary and never interfere in its functioning.” Gehlot, however, added, “You know complaints keep coming from the executive and the legislature that many bills get stalled by the judiciary.” Sources said the Gehlot-government was considering bringing a bill during the assembly session and issuing a whip to its MLAs to support it, as an option other than seeking a trust vote directly. The government needs to seek assembly's approval for the Rajasthan epidemic diseases ordinance 2020 that it notified in May. A whip for the bill would make it mandatory for dissident legislators to attend the assembly proceedings or face disqualification. The government would prefer disqualification of rebels before going for a trust vote so that the majority mark in the 200-member house would get reduced. After the rebellion, the Gehlot-government is on a thin majority, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-meets-guv-again-says-will-call-assembly-session-prove-majority/articleshow/77136890.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 24, 2020||Kolkata||Locals in panic after 23 cases in Gobindapur||KOLKATA: At least 23 residents of Gobindapur rail colony reportedly tested positive for Covid-19. An extensive door-to-door test in the past two days found several others carrying mild symptoms. A complex near Gobindapur Road, where the residents include some well-known persons of the city, has also reported three new cases. A portion of Gobindapur Road had been brought under the containment zone three days ago. Cops said there are certain factors behind the Covid outbreak in this area. Most of the residents work as maid servants, drivers and security guards in Jodhpur Park, Jadavpur, Golpark, Dhakuria, the Lake area, Gariahat, Lake Gardens and Golf Green. “They travelled most ever since the lockdown was lifted. We provided them food during the lockdown but we could keep them confined always,” said local ward coordinator Ratan De. Police sources said six houses had been identified as having the maximum patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/locals-in-panic-after-23-cases-in-gobindapur/articleshow/77136268.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 24, 2020||Udaipur||Gehlot meets governor again, says will call assembly session & prove majority||JAIPUR: The political crisis in Rajasthan is headed for a showdown in assembly with chief minister Ashok Gehlot meeting governor Kalraj Mishra for the second time in six days, late on Thursday. The meeting at Raj Bhawan lasted nearly 20 minutes. Earlier in the day, Gehlot said an assembly session would be called soon and his government would show it was stable and in majority. The chief minister hinted at the ruling party going for a floor test when he expressed hope that many among the dissidents would “vote” for his government. “We will discuss corona and politics, both,” Gehlot told reporters in response to a question outside the hotel where Congress legislators supporting him were corralled since July 13, a day after former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot said the Gehlot-government was in minority and issued a statement claiming support of 30 MLAs. “We have a full majority and are united, so we are staying here,” the CM said on Thursday. Referring to the 19 dissident Congress MLAs in the Pilot camp hiding outside the state, Gehlot said, “They are being forcefully kept in a hotel guarded by bouncers. They are making phone calls to say they want to return but can’t. I hope many of them, when they come, will vote for us.” Gehlot added, “Otherwise also, we have a complete majority on our own.” Political events in the desert state took a turn after the Supreme Court declined to stop the Rajasthan High Court from delivering a verdict on the dissident Congress legislator’s plea challenging the Speaker’s disqualification notices early in the day. The high court was to pronounce judgment on the dissident legislators’ joint petition challenging show-cause notices issued by Speaker C P Joshi based on Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi’s plea that they had failed to attend two consecutive Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meetings on July 13 and 14, despite a whip. In a request-cum-directive order, the high court had refrained the Speaker from acting on the notices till it delivers a verdict on Friday. The high court, however, was unlikely to give its verdict at this stage with the Pilot camp moving an application on Wednesday, saying that the Union should be made party to the case since the constitutional validity of Schedule X has been challenged. “There is very minimal chance of any final order being passed on Friday because the matter has now been listed in the category of ‘reply not filed’. The court may grant time to the Union to file a reply,” said Prateek Kasliwal, counsel for speaker C P Joshi. While referring to the dissident MLAs, Chief minister Gehlot said, “Those who got misled and made a mistake have gone to the court now. There is just one point—is the Speaker’s notice correct or not. It has no connection with the anti-defection law.” “We held one CLP meeting at the chief minister's residence and another at the hotel to give an opportunity to those who had gone to Delhi to return, but they didn’t. Our chief whip petitioned the Speaker that the MLAs intend to leave the party. There are several verdicts of the apex court that if an MLA’s intention to leave the party voluntarily gets known, the speaker can issue notice, record reply and take a decision.” On being asked if the constitutional bodies were heading for a conflict, the CM said, “It should be avoided. We respect the judiciary and never interfere in its functioning.” Gehlot, however, added, “You know complaints keep coming from the executive and the legislature that many bills get stalled by the judiciary.” Sources said the Gehlot-government was considering bringing a bill during the assembly session and issuing a whip to its MLAs to support it, as an option other than seeking a trust vote directly. The government needs to seek assembly's approval for the Rajasthan epidemic diseases ordinance 2020 that it notified in May. A whip for the bill would make it mandatory for dissident legislators to attend the assembly proceedings or face disqualification. The government would prefer disqualification of rebels before going for a trust vote so that the majority mark in the 200-member house would get reduced. After the rebellion, the Gehlot-government is on a thin majority, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/gehlot-meets-guv-again-says-will-call-assembly-session-prove-majority/articleshow/77138547.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gathering at shrine, cleric booked||Ahmedabad: City police on Thursday booked a cleric and seven others for violation of notification restricting social gathering in the time of corona outbreak, when about 300 people gathered at a shrine in Usmanpura area of the city. DCP Zone-1, P L Mal said police received information of the huge gathering without social distancing and masks of people offering prayers at the shrine. “As I came to know of the gathering, I rushed there and found people violating notification. Police made them maintain social distance and some were sent back to their homes,” said Mal. “Later, we booked the main cleric and eight others for violation of city police commissioner’s notification barring gatherings and sent them to Vadaj police station,” Mal added. The accused were also booked under relevant sections of Epidemic Diseases Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gathering-at-shrine-cleric-booked/articleshow/77136266.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Bhopal||Markets draw heavy footfall as people rush for shopping ahead of big festivals||Bhopal: The shadow of the impending lockdown could be palpably felt among people on Thursday. Stores like D Mart or Reliance Fresh saw long queues of people right from the morning as everybody seemed to be in a hurry to store up essentials for the 10 days of lockdown.As the day progressed, the crowd in markets swelled. Roads leading to New Market, Ravishankar Market or any other market witnessed traffic snarls.Since major festivals like Eid and Rakshabandhan will also fall in the course of the lockdown, people were seen buying specific items for the festivals too. Some were complaining that the government should also have disbursed salaries early if they had to impose lockdown in the last week of July. Finding ‘marketing’ opportunity in the lockdown, some showrooms of branded apparels and footwear offered pre-lockdown offer to their customers on their mobile. An apparel showroom in 10 no. market offered 20% off on any cloth that you buy on Thursday and Friday. People in groups were also seen discussing pros and cons of the lockdown and its efficacy in controlling the spread of coronavirus infection. “I told you it is coming. Media denied it as a ‘rumour’ obviously based on feedback from the administration, but they did it because not only Bhopal, everywhere they are taking recourse to lockdown when the coronavirus situation becomes grim,” said a middle-aged man sitting at a tea stall with his friends. Spotting a courier agency nearby, one of them wondered whether the administration would allow courier services to remain open so as to allow him to send a gift to his sisters since he won't be able to visit them on Rakshabandhan this year.Some people, however, thought that the lockdown would be truncated after July 31 as asking people to observe major festivals like Eid and Rakhi under lockdown would not be possible.“In both the festivals, people visit their friends or sisters. These are festivals where your physical presence is of paramount importance,” said Varinder Singh, a builder, when asked about the lockdown in Bhopal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/markets-draw-heavy-footfall-as-people-rush-for-shopping-ahead-of-big-festivals/articleshow/77135467.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Jodhpur||Gehlot meets governor again, says will call assembly session & prove majority||JAIPUR: The political crisis in Rajasthan is headed for a showdown in assembly with chief minister Ashok Gehlot meeting governor Kalraj Mishra for the second time in six days, late on Thursday. The meeting at Raj Bhawan lasted nearly 20 minutes. Earlier in the day, Gehlot said an assembly session would be called soon and his government would show it was stable and in majority. The chief minister hinted at the ruling party going for a floor test when he expressed hope that many among the dissidents would “vote” for his government. “We will discuss corona and politics, both,” Gehlot told reporters in response to a question outside the hotel where Congress legislators supporting him were corralled since July 13, a day after former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot said the Gehlot-government was in minority and issued a statement claiming support of 30 MLAs. “We have a full majority and are united, so we are staying here,” the CM said on Thursday. Referring to the 19 dissident Congress MLAs in the Pilot camp hiding outside the state, Gehlot said, “They are being forcefully kept in a hotel guarded by bouncers. They are making phone calls to say they want to return but can’t. I hope many of them, when they come, will vote for us.” Gehlot added, “Otherwise also, we have a complete majority on our own.” Political events in the desert state took a turn after the Supreme Court declined to stop the Rajasthan High Court from delivering a verdict on the dissident Congress legislator’s plea challenging the Speaker’s disqualification notices early in the day. The high court was to pronounce judgment on the dissident legislators’ joint petition challenging show-cause notices issued by Speaker C P Joshi based on Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi’s plea that they had failed to attend two consecutive Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meetings on July 13 and 14, despite a whip. In a request-cum-directive order, the high court had refrained the Speaker from acting on the notices till it delivers a verdict on Friday. The high court, however, was unlikely to give its verdict at this stage with the Pilot camp moving an application on Wednesday, saying that the Union should be made party to the case since the constitutional validity of Schedule X has been challenged. “There is very minimal chance of any final order being passed on Friday because the matter has now been listed in the category of ‘reply not filed’. The court may grant time to the Union to file a reply,” said Prateek Kasliwal, counsel for speaker C P Joshi. While referring to the dissident MLAs, Chief minister Gehlot said, “Those who got misled and made a mistake have gone to the court now. There is just one point—is the Speaker’s notice correct or not. It has no connection with the anti-defection law.” “We held one CLP meeting at the chief minister's residence and another at the hotel to give an opportunity to those who had gone to Delhi to return, but they didn’t. Our chief whip petitioned the Speaker that the MLAs intend to leave the party. There are several verdicts of the apex court that if an MLA’s intention to leave the party voluntarily gets known, the speaker can issue notice, record reply and take a decision.” On being asked if the constitutional bodies were heading for a conflict, the CM said, “It should be avoided. We respect the judiciary and never interfere in its functioning.” Gehlot, however, added, “You know complaints keep coming from the executive and the legislature that many bills get stalled by the judiciary.” Sources said the Gehlot-government was considering bringing a bill during the assembly session and issuing a whip to its MLAs to support it, as an option other than seeking a trust vote directly. The government needs to seek assembly's approval for the Rajasthan epidemic diseases ordinance 2020 that it notified in May. A whip for the bill would make it mandatory for dissident legislators to attend the assembly proceedings or face disqualification. The government would prefer disqualification of rebels before going for a trust vote so that the majority mark in the 200-member house would get reduced. After the rebellion, the Gehlot-government is on a thin majority, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/gehlot-meets-guv-again-says-will-call-assembly-session-prove-majority/articleshow/77138546.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 24, 2020||Lucknow||Over 63 lakh citizens under lens in 6,000 hotspots in UP||LUCKNOW: Hotspot areas continue to grow in UP and have reached about 6,000 across the state under which over 63 lakh people are under observation. Just a week earlier, on July 16, there were 4,510 hotspots in the state under which 62 lakh people were under observation. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi on Thursday said that Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had expressed concern about the rising hotspots and had asked senior officials to personally visit each of them to ensure implementation of lockdown. “Right now there are about 6,000 hotspots in the state under which 10.72 lakh houses have been covered and over 63 lakh people are under observation. The CM has directed senior police and health officials to go there personally to ensure that the lockdown is being followed properly,” he said. Last week, when 1.55 lakh homes were under the hotspot areas, affecting 62 lakh persons, the CM had said that a detailed review would be carried out to analyse why cases are rising and how to prevent the spread of the virus. An official said that these areas are being monitored continuously to ensure that the virus does not spread from them. Meanwhile, door to door surveillance has started in Lucknow where two teams of 25 persons each, including both teachers and health officials, have been deputed to scan persons in each house. The government has appealed to people to proactively get themselves tested, especially now when home quarantine has been permitted, to ensure that they get immediate medical attention which can then reduce the death count due to Covid-19. “Please get yourselves tested and ensure that you give your correct address and contact details so that one can reach out to you in case you test positive. This is also true especially in contact tracing which is now being implemented strictly across the state,” Awasthi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/over-63-lakh-citizens-under-lens-in-6000-hotspots-in-up/articleshow/77136889.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Ajmer||Gehlot meets governor again, says will call assembly session & prove majority||JAIPUR: The political crisis in Rajasthan is headed for a showdown in assembly with chief minister Ashok Gehlot meeting governor Kalraj Mishra for the second time in six days, late on Thursday. The meeting at Raj Bhawan lasted nearly 20 minutes. Earlier in the day, Gehlot said an assembly session would be called soon and his government would show it was stable and in majority. The chief minister hinted at the ruling party going for a floor test when he expressed hope that many among the dissidents would “vote” for his government. “We will discuss corona and politics, both,” Gehlot told reporters in response to a question outside the hotel where Congress legislators supporting him were corralled since July 13, a day after former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot said the Gehlot-government was in minority and issued a statement claiming support of 30 MLAs. “We have a full majority and are united, so we are staying here,” the CM said on Thursday. Referring to the 19 dissident Congress MLAs in the Pilot camp hiding outside the state, Gehlot said, “They are being forcefully kept in a hotel guarded by bouncers. They are making phone calls to say they want to return but can’t. I hope many of them, when they come, will vote for us.” Gehlot added, “Otherwise also, we have a complete majority on our own.” Political events in the desert state took a turn after the Supreme Court declined to stop the Rajasthan High Court from delivering a verdict on the dissident Congress legislator’s plea challenging the Speaker’s disqualification notices early in the day. The high court was to pronounce judgment on the dissident legislators’ joint petition challenging show-cause notices issued by Speaker C P Joshi based on Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi’s plea that they had failed to attend two consecutive Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meetings on July 13 and 14, despite a whip. In a request-cum-directive order, the high court had refrained the Speaker from acting on the notices till it delivers a verdict on Friday. The high court, however, was unlikely to give its verdict at this stage with the Pilot camp moving an application on Wednesday, saying that the Union should be made party to the case since the constitutional validity of Schedule X has been challenged. “There is very minimal chance of any final order being passed on Friday because the matter has now been listed in the category of ‘reply not filed’. The court may grant time to the Union to file a reply,” said Prateek Kasliwal, counsel for speaker C P Joshi. While referring to the dissident MLAs, Chief minister Gehlot said, “Those who got misled and made a mistake have gone to the court now. There is just one point—is the Speaker’s notice correct or not. It has no connection with the anti-defection law.” “We held one CLP meeting at the chief minister's residence and another at the hotel to give an opportunity to those who had gone to Delhi to return, but they didn’t. Our chief whip petitioned the Speaker that the MLAs intend to leave the party. There are several verdicts of the apex court that if an MLA’s intention to leave the party voluntarily gets known, the speaker can issue notice, record reply and take a decision.” On being asked if the constitutional bodies were heading for a conflict, the CM said, “It should be avoided. We respect the judiciary and never interfere in its functioning.” Gehlot, however, added, “You know complaints keep coming from the executive and the legislature that many bills get stalled by the judiciary.” Sources said the Gehlot-government was considering bringing a bill during the assembly session and issuing a whip to its MLAs to support it, as an option other than seeking a trust vote directly. The government needs to seek assembly's approval for the Rajasthan epidemic diseases ordinance 2020 that it notified in May. A whip for the bill would make it mandatory for dissident legislators to attend the assembly proceedings or face disqualification. The government would prefer disqualification of rebels before going for a trust vote so that the majority mark in the 200-member house would get reduced. After the rebellion, the Gehlot-government is on a thin majority, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/gehlot-meets-guv-again-says-will-call-assembly-session-prove-majority/articleshow/77138548.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||NHL students defy govt order, fail to turn up||Ahmedabad: Barely a week after the state government issued a notification deploying students of medical, dental and paramedical courses on Covid duty, there is already resistance to the decision. A day after they were assigned various duties, many students of NHL Municipal Medical College defied the order and avoided going to work. Parents of students have started seeking legal opinions after college authorities refused to grant terms to students who failed to turn up for work, sources privy to the developments said. Such students have been warned of being barred from taking examinations, sources added. There is lot of apprehension among these students about joining duty at hospitals in Ahmedabad, considered a coronovarius hotbed, said sources. Some students who are in their second and third years and do not have adequate knowledge of how to conduct tests have been given the responsibility of Covid testing, putting them at a greater risk, sources said. The parents of many students have refused to sign the consent letter, which states that they agree with the decision to put their wards on corona duty. The state is facing an acute shortage of frontline medical personnel to handle the coronavirus crisis. The government plans to create an additional task force of about 40,000 students from first, second, third and final year of undergraduate medical courses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nhl-students-defy-govt-order-fail-to-turn-up/articleshow/77136281.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Kolkata||New Town to promote cycling for social distancing in Covid times||KOLKATA: New Town, along with 80 other cities of the country, has registered to participate in the cycle challenge competition that will be organized by the housing and urban affairs ministry this year in an effort to promote cycling for social distancing amid the pandemic. The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) will prepare a detailed proposal in consultation with residents, bikers, enthusiasts and experts and submit the report to the ministry in October this year. “The report that will be submitted to the Centre will mention the methods we plan to adopt to encourage cycling,” said an official. NKDA officials on Wednesday attended the first workshop on ‘Kickstarting the Cycle of Change’. Now, New Town has about 11-km grade-separated cycle tracks while the NKDA is coming up with another 20-km tracks, for which the work has already started. The y are also planning to hold ‘Sunday Cycles’ for locals in the morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-town-to-promote-cycling-for-social-distancing-in-covid-times/articleshow/77136278.cms||Suman Chakraborti
July 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19 cases in Telangana cross 50,000, toll 447||HYDERABAD: Telangana recorded nine deaths and 1,567 new cases of Covid-19 as the overall caseload rose to 50, 826 and the death toll touched 447 on Thursday. The state has 11,952 active cases, about 22 per cent of the total coronavirus caseload, while the remaining 77 per cent have recovered and about 0.87 per cent (less than 1 per cent) have succumbed to the novel coronavirus. Authorities said they have tested 13,367 samples on Thursday, totalling 3.2 lakh samples so far in the state. Even as cases continue to surge in districts across the state, the latest being in Adilabad, Mulugu, Nagarkurnool and Jangaon, the numbers came down in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area saw 662 new cases on Thursday, while districts surrounding the GHMC limits, including Medchal, Rangareddy, Medak, Sangareddy and Warangal together registered nearly 450 cases. Mahabubabad, Karimnagar, Nalgonda, Rajanna-Siricilla and Nizamabad continued to see an upward swing in the number of cases. Even as state health authorities have sounded an alert over an increasing number of cases in rural areas, 31 of the 33 districts in the state recorded new cases on Thursday. Authorities have urged people to seek medical help in case of any flu-like symptoms such as cough, sore throat, runny nose, fever, difficulty in breathing, body pain and headache. Cases have been rising rampantly in the state despite government and administrative efforts to check the spread of coronavirus in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-cases-in-t-cross-50k-toll-447/articleshow/77136275.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Delhi||70% of patients admitted with Covid overweight/obese: Doctors||NEW DELHI: Overweight people are more likely to contract Covid-19, if admissions to hospitals for the infections are considered. A study conducted by doctors at Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals showed that 70% of around 1,000 patients treated for Covid and involved in the study were overweight and obese. Dr Arun Prasad, senior gastrointestinal and bariatric surgeon at the hospital, said they looked at the BMI (body mass index) of 812 patients who were either discharged or died due to the infection over the past few months and found that 70% were overweight/obese. “Among those who succumbed, 82% were overweight/obese,” he said. These figures were actually the same or higher than the urban areas of the West, where a similar study was done, he added. “The obese in India are more prone to developing serious complications and even death due to Covid. Therefore, along with elderly and other high-risk population, obesity should be added to the list when it comes to deciding public health policies,” he said. Dr Rajesh Chawla, pulmonologist and critical care specialist, Apollo Hospital, said that managing an obese with complications due to Covid, for example very low oxygen saturation, was very challenging. “Some of these patients require ventilator support. But due to high fat in their upper airway, it is difficult to intubate and to turn and mobilise them,” he said. Even the nurses face a problem while attending to these patients. “The duration of mechanical ventilation and the length of ICU stay are always longer in an obese person,” Dr Chawla added. But why are overweight and obese people at higher risk to develop complications? While the world has been engaging in multiple studies to find an answer, Dr Anoop Misra, chairman, Fortis C-Doc, explained that obese people have lower oxygenation capacity. “Covid-19 is known to affect the lungs leading to decline in oxygen saturation, which causes complications,” he said. Dr Misra added that obese people had heightened inflammation in the body, which was exacerbated by Covid-19 leading to increased risk of morbidity and mortality. Dr Prasad said that overweight and obese people had weaker respiratory muscles, increased resistance in their airways, and lower lung volumes, which were important defence mechanisms to fight Covid. The doctors said that these people should take extra precaution, just like the elderly and those with comorbidities. “People should do breathing exercises as it can help in increasing lung volume and expansion capacity. Good sleeping patterns and healthy eating is also important,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/70-of-patients-admitted-with-covid-overweight/obese-docs/articleshow/77136276.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Lucknow||‘Nivesh Mitra’ to start offering 46 new services by October 31||LUCKNOW: By October 31, 46 services under 10 additional departments will be integrated into the government’s single window platform Nivesh Mitra. Currently, 146 services under 20 departments are being provided through the portal. The services will allow one to file online applications, submit fees and download final clearance documents. The departments which will be integrated with the portal include agriculture, medical health & family welfare, home, primary education, secondary education, co-operative societies, groundwater, geology & mines, transport and food & civil supply. A government spokesperson said once the new departments are integrated with the portal, services like grant of licenses for manufacturing, sale, storage of fertilizers, insecticide and pesticide, registration for clinical establishments and no-objection certificate for water abstraction will be provided through Nivesh Mitra. Industrial development minister Satish Mahana said: “Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has been emphasizing on transparency and best practices for business-to-government interactive procedures through use of technology. Our government has been successful in improving ease of doing business by introducing various IT driven modules. Nivesh Mitra is one of such successful tools.” From February 2018 to July 20, 2020, Nivesh Mitra received 2,05,310 applications, of which 1,63,130 clearances were granted online at an approval rate of 79%. During the Covid-19 pandemic, between April 1, 2020 and July 20, 2020, 28,248 clearances were granted through Nivesh Mitra at an approval rate of 82%. There were 34,361 applications filed during this period. Under the grievance redressal mechanism, 15,618 grievances have been received of which 15,290 have been resolved at a rate of 98%. Additional chief secretary (industrial development) Alok Kumar said an 82% license approval rate during the lockdown reflects the efficiency and utility of the online service delivery system. Nivesh Mitra was launched during UP Investors Summit in 2018 with 69 services from 20 departments. An official added that on the ease of doing business index through which the Centre assesses the performance of each state, they will now be ranked based on users’ feedback.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nivesh-mitra-to-start-offering-46-new-services-by-october-31/articleshow/77136891.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Bhopal||Online delivery services flooded with orders ahead of lockdown||BHOPAL: As the district administration declared a 10-day lockdown in the city, online bookings for groceries and vegetables on platforms that deliver household items to the doorstep have been flooded with orders from citizens who wish to secure enough supplies for the next 10 days to avoid going out. Apps for home-delivery services have been overbooked and most show that there are no more slots for delivery available. Praveen Birthare, HR Head of Ondoor, told TOI that the number of orders have more than doubled in the last few days. “There is a sudden spike in order flow from apps. Usually, we get 1,500 orders per day, which has spiked to more than 4,000 orders in a day,” said Birthare. The Big Basket app is showing the message, ‘All slots full. Please try again later', due to the sudden rise in orders. Jio Mart is also operating at full speed to cater to the increased order flow to meet customers’ demands before the lockdown. “Since the last two-three days, there has been a huge rush of orders and we are trying our best to deliver each parcel well in time. As there is still a shortage of staff due to the ongoing pandemic, there are only a few delivery boys and we have to work double to meet the increased demand,” a delivery boy from an online service said on condition of anonymity. People are preferring to order groceries and other household supplies online as they feel that the local shops will be overcrowded and it would be risky to step out. “The very idea of ordering groceries is to avoid stepping out in crowded areas to keep ourselves away from the risk of COVID-19 infection. Many people would go out to buy necessary supplies in these two days so that they don’t have to step out later. So ordering online was the safest option,” said Stuti Pant, a teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/online-delivery-services-flooded-with-orders-ahead-of-lockdown/articleshow/77135506.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Nagpur||Sitabuldi main road rid of hawkers, shopkeepers & shoppers delighted||NAGPUR: The Sitabuldi main road, which is otherwise swarming with hawkers, now looks de-congested and spacious, and motorists can drive freely. The turnaround is a result of a four-day consistent drive initiated by municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe against hawkers who had been violating Covid-19 rules by operating on the road from Variety Square to Loha Pul. Under Mundhe’s supervision, deputy municipal commissioner Mahesh Moroney and assistant municipal commissioner of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) Dharampeth zone Prakash Warade started the drive from Sunday morning to oust hundreds of hawkers and vendors. Covid-19 guidelines prohibit hawkers from operating to avoid overcrowding on streets. “Almost all the hawkers have been evicted from the road,” Warade told TOI. A few photographs of the wide Sitabuldi road without a single hawker have gone viral on social media praising Mundhe and his team. “The anti-encroachment team not only seized truckloads of material from the roadside vendors but also collected a whopping Rs2.50 lakh fine,” Warade said and added that an anti-encroachment team has been deployed permanently along with a vehicle on the road to ensure hawkers don’t return. Welcoming the action, shoppers said the civic administration should ensure hawkers don’t return to this busiest commercial hub of the city which witnesses a huge footfall. Vijendra Kale, a shopper who has been avoiding visiting the market due to coronavirus scare, said, “The hawkers were not following any Covid distancing norms.” The shopkeepers too appreciated Mundhe and his team for making the road hawker-free. “The Sitabuldi main road now looks wide and clean. Customers are glad they have space to park vehicles and enjoy stress-free shopping,” they said. With minimal traffic on the road, Covid distancing was maintained and shops were sanitized to making it a safe and pleasant experience for the customers. “Earlier, it was tough for them to enter the main road and women felt uncomfortable wading through a sea of hawkers. We urge the NMC chief to make Sitabuldi main road hawker-free permanently,” said Parag Thakkar, a shopkeeper. Residents and shopkeepers from central Nagpur areas like Itwari and Mahal too are demanding similar action from NMC against the hawkers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sitabuldi-main-road-rid-of-hawkers-shopkeepers-shoppers-delighted/articleshow/77136295.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 24, 2020||Nagpur||RPF raids tout working from home, seizes 31 tickets||Nagpur: Railway Protection Force (RPF), Central Railway, has started raiding homes of the alleged touts who are targeting the labourers trying to return to their workplaces by procuring tickets from commission agents in the phase Begin Again. During lockdown, RPF team under senior divisional security commissioner (Sr DSC) Ashutosh Pandey arrested six touts or commission agents and seized 73 tickets from them worth Rs 1.33 lakh. In a recent action, RPF arrested Dinesh Pal from his home near FCI godown on Wardha Road. Pal, working as a commission agent, was arrested following a combined raid of RPF and Dhantoli police. The RPF team is learnt to have seized 31 tickets prepared by Pal through his personal ID from the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) portal. The tickets, worth Rs 34,850, were seized from him. It is learnt Pal was initially in denial mode. The IT experts, engaged by the RPF team under in-charge of the Nagpur post RR James, helped the investigating team by exposing Pal’s involvement in preparing tickets for commercial sales through his personal ID prepared on IRCTC portal and also charge purchasers commission ranging between Rs 200-Rs 300 per ticket. Sr DSC Pandey said there was a tip-off regarding Pal operating from home. “During interrogation it came to fore that Pal and others like him are preparing tickets for the labourers trying to reach different places with the ongoing services in some of the selected routes and mail trains,” he said. “These touts and agents are taking advantage of people who cannot buy tickets online themselves,” he said. Pandey has appealed to the people to avoid purchasing tickets from the touts as sudden checks can get these cancelled bringing their journeys to a halt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rpf-raids-tout-working-from-home-seizes-31-tickets/articleshow/77136270.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 24, 2020||India||India to arm Rafales with ‘Hammers’||NEW DELHI: India is planning to also equip its new Rafale fighter jets, which already have a deadly weapons package, with the “Hammer” air-to-ground precision-guided munitions amid the ongoing military confrontation with China in eastern Ladakh. The first five of the 36 omni-role Rafales, contracted from France under the Rs 59,000-crore deal inked in September 2016, are slated to touch down at Ambala airbase on July 29, as was earlier reported by TOI. Even as preparations are in full swing to ensure the Rafales become fully-operational as soon as possible in the backdrop of the heightened tensions with China, sources on Thursday said talks are under way with France to swiftly acquire the Hammer (highly agile modular munition extended range) weapons for the jets. The 20- to 70-km range Hammers, designed to destroy bunkers, hardened shelters and other targets in all terrains including the mountainous ones in eastern Ladakh, will be procured under the emergency finan cial powers granted to the armed forces during the confrontation with China. The all-weather Hammers are similar to the Israeliorigin “Spice” precision-guided bombs which were used by Indian Mirage-2000 fighters during the Balakot airstrikes in February last year. A Rafale can carry up to six Hammers to hit as many targets simultaneously. While the Rafales will almost be combat-deployable when they arrive at Ambala, capable of firing its over 300km range Scalp air-to-ground cruise missiles and other weapons, the integration of the 120-150 km range Meteor air-to-air missiles will take some time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-to-arm-rafales-with-hammers/articleshow/77137596.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Hubballi||Police martyr memorial comes up at Nargund||Dharwad: It was in 1979-80 when farmers of Nargund and Navalgund taluks of then undivided Dharwad district had started an agitation against the government for forcibly recovering betterment levy from farmers coming under the Malaprabha Command Area when they had not actually benefitted from the irrigation project due to faulty planning. When the government continued with coercive measures to recover levy, farmers intensified the agitation and started sit-in protests in front of tahsildars’ offices in Nargund and Navalgund in July 1980. On July 21, 1980, farmers had outnumbered the policemen and agitation turned violent. To quell the violent mob, police had to open fire. Two farmers died of bullet injuries and three policemen- Nargund sub inspector Sikandar Babalal Patel, DAR SI Basayya Charantayya Hiremath and DAR ASI Nagappa Siddappa Akki also lost their lives in violent incidents. The agitation spread to other parts of the state and resulted in the fall of the R Gundurao-led Congress government. After the farmers’ movement the government erected a memorial ‘Veeragallu’ to commemorate the farmer-martyrs at Nargund and Navalgund. Every year on July 21, it has become customary for leaders of all political parties to visit the ‘Veeragallu’ and pay floral tributes. It was Gadag Superintendent of Police Shrinath Mahadev Joshi (currently DCP Southeast, Bengaluru) who thought of erecting a police martyr memorial. He held meetings with local farmers’ leaders Veeresh Sobaradmath, Shankar Ambli, Vijay Kulkarni, Vithal Jadhav and others and they agreed to the proposal. Before the plan could be executed, Joshi was transferred. His successor Yateesh continued the effort and finally the police martyr memorial erected at Nargund was inaugurated on July 21 this year. “I am feeling happy and satisfied that something has been done to remember the sacrifice of policemen,” Joshi said. Caption: The police martyrs memorial has been erected at Nargund jointly by police and local farmers’ leaders in memory of three policemen who died in violence that erupted during a farmers’ agitation on July 21, 1980 (TOI)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/police-martyr-memorial-comes-up-at-nargund/articleshow/77132530.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
July 24, 2020||Mysuru||Govt modifies rules for utilisation of LAD funds for schools||Mysuru: In what could be a boon for development of state-run schools in the lines of private convent schools, Karnataka government has brought modifications for utilisation of legislators fund for school development. The commissioner of public instruction issued a circular last week directing all deputy directors of public instruction (DDPIs) to work for all-round development of schools in their respective areas under the school adoption programme by utilising Karnataka Legislators’ Local Area Development Scheme (KLLAD). The government of Karnataka allocates an annual budget of Rs 2 crore to each legislators to plug infrastructure gaps in their constituency. The move gains significance as over 90% of the budget for school education in the state is spent on salaries to employees at government primary and high schools leaving little for infrastructure development. Speaking to TOI, DDPI Dr Panduranga said he has already initiated the process to identify three schools in each block from across the district. One of the schools selected for development will be a Karnataka Public School. He has directed block education officers to prepare a list of schools in their jurisdiction that can be considered for developmental projects by the end of this month after discussing the same with their local MLAs. The BEO have also been tasked with determining the required development work, programme of action for all-round development of the school. They will also select specific areas of intervention aimed at improving the educational system of the school, estimate cost of expenditure and other details after discussing with local legislators. Under the school adoption programme, MLAs select a state-run school and provide funds for specific projects such as revamp of classrooms, playgrounds, libraries, cycle stands etc. The legislators can also choose to initiate programmes for promotion of sports and buy sports equipment, improve health services or drinking water facilities among others, said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/govt-modifies-rules-for-utilisation-of-lad-funds-for-schools/articleshow/77133874.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Admin, academics hit as nine universities remain headless for a year||HYDERABAD: Delay in appointment of full-time vice-chancellors (VCs) to nine state universities has stalled administrative and academic work, complain teachers, while expressing concern over bureaucrats running the show as in-charge VCs. With the term of seven VCs, including Osmania University (OU) and Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTU-H), ending on July 24, 2019, the state government had appointed six IAS officers as in-charge VCs of seven universities. This drew sharp criticism from the teaching community. One year later, universities are facing several problems — from pending promotions of assistant professors to examinations and evaluations. “Our in-charge VC sits in Hyderabad and already has many portfolios under him. All the administrative and academic work has been hit as none of us can travel to Hyderabad to discuss daily issues,” said R Mallikarjuna Reddy, president, Association of Kakatiya University Teachers. When TOI contacted principal secretary of agriculture, Janardhan Reddy, who is the in-charge VC of the university, all he said was, “I managed nine posts at the beginning of Telangana. When the 10th post fell on me, I refused and realised the burden I was bearing.” At OU, close to 180 assistant professors are awaiting promotions to the associate professor level. “Bureaucrats do not have sufficient time to deal with our daily university issues,” said Prof Manohar Basude, president of Osmania University Teachers Association. He added: “We need a regular VC who can regularly review issues pertaining to exams, students and teachers welfare, academic calendar and reopening of colleges/hostels amid Covid-19 pandemic.” Calls and messages to Arvind Kumar, principal secretary of MAUD (also in-charge VC of OU and Mahatma Gandhi University), went unanswered. Reiterating this, students said that how it is often intimidating to approach a bureaucrat. “We cannot go to the secretariat or a government office to raise concerns over fees, exam schedule, evaluation, hostels etc.,” said Venkat Balmoori, president, NSUI (Telangana). While admitting to constraints of an IAS officer, Jayesh Ranjan, IT secretary and in-charge VC of JNTUH said how he has brought several reforms in the varsity. “I understand there is a fear among teachers and students about IAS officers running universities. But while I am not able to do things like transferring of faculty members, my experience as IT secretary has helped in introducing new mandatory courses in emerging technologies for BTech students and bridging the industry-academia gap,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/admin-academics-hit-as-nine-univs-remain-headless-for-a-yr/articleshow/77136893.cms||Preeti Biswas
July 24, 2020||Delhi||No pay to doctors: SC asks corpn, govt to reply||NEW DELHI: Though hailed as front line warriors in the fight against Covid-19, doctors in North Delhi Municipal Corporation hospitals have not been paid salaries for the past five months, prompting the Supreme Court to issue notices on Thursday to Delhi government and the civic body, seeking their explanation. The apex court had on June 17 directed the Centre to ensure that salaries of doctors and health workers were given without delay and ordered the government to pass an appropriate order to the chief secretaries of all the states and Union territories to ensure doctors were paid salaries on time. A day after the apex court order, the Centre had issued notification asking chief secretaries to ensure compliance with the order and that any violation would be treated as an offence under the Disaster Management Act and Indian Penal Code against defaulting hospitals/institutions/authorities. Alleging that Delhi government and the municipal coporation failed to comply with the orders, a batch of 13 doctors, including chief medical officers, said they had not been paid salaries since March despite several representations to the authorities concerned. Advocate S K Gupta, appearing for the doctors, pleaded a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan to take cognisance of the matter and order release of salaries to them. “The present petitioners are the doctors/medical officers working in various hospitals under North Delhi Municipal Corporation of Delhi and are aggrieved by non-payment of monthly salaries and emoluments. The petitioners are the front line warriors and discharging their duties by putting their life in risk and in spite of the above, they are not being paid salary from March/April onwards,” the petition said. Agreeing to hear the doctors’ plea, the bench sought response from Delhi government and the civic body. It also asked the petitioners to serve the copy of the petition to the solicitor general so that the Centre’s view could also be heard before passing orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-pay-to-docs-sc-asks-corpn-govt-to-reply/articleshow/77136308.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Pune||Shunning of 80/20 rule is root of the problem: Maharashtra minister Rajesh Tope||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said the Pune hospital bed shortage was solely because of non-implementation of the 80:20 rule. Private hospitals are supposed to set aside 80% of all their beds for Covid-19 treatment. “The administration has been told to look into the problem. The current shortage of ICU beds is the result of private hospitals failing to reserve 80% of their beds for Covid patients,” the minister told TOI. Tope added that a centralised dashboard remains the best solution. “One central command structure will ensure families don't have to run around to find beds," he said, while adding that keeping the dashboard updated was the responsibility of the hospital authorities. On complaints about huge treatment bills, the minister said the administration should have auditors in place to verify bills in hospitals not part of the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJAY). The state government currently has 1,000 hospitals offering free Covid-19 treatment under this cover. Tope said the 1,000 empanelled hospitals should treat seriously ill patients for free, a process the local administration can publicise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shunning-of-80/20-rule-is-root-of-the-problem-tope/articleshow/77136292.cms||Nisha Nambiar
July 24, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal’s Covid tally breaches 5,000 mark||BHOPAL: The state capital on Thursday breached the 5,000 mark in the number of corona-positive cases. With 194 new cases on Thursday, Bhopal continued to report a spurt in Covid-19 cases. In Bhopal, the total number of cases went up to 5,064. As many as 144 deaths were reported since the pandemic began. Two more people were diagnosed with Covid-19 infection in CRPF Bangrasia. In RAF campus (Hinotiya), five people tested positive. Similarly, CID (PHQ), Police Colony (Idgah Hills) and 23 Battalion (Bhadbhada) reported one positive each. In E-1, Arera Colony, one person was diagnosed with Covid-19 infection. CI Colony, Jehangirabad, reported two positives cases of the infection. Delux Katara Hills and Staff colony, Katara hills and Narayan Nagar (Hoshangabad Road) reported one positive case each. Shivaji Nagar reported 10 cases, the maximum number from one place on Thursday. Five of them were from the same family. Palak Hotel, Raisen Road, Police Lines, Navin Nagar (Aishbag) and 3-EME centre (Bairagarh) reported four positives each. Emerald Park, Patel Nagar, Vaishali Nasgar, and Patrakar Colony reported two positives each. Similarly, Ambedkar Nagar and Bakti Niketan and Shalimar Garden reported two cases each. Residents of Regal town and Regal Kasturi (Awadpuri), Rivera Township and Data Colony (Airport Road) reported one case. Shymla Hills, Peoples Hospital, Harshvardhan Nagar, Fine Avenue, Kolar, and Kadambari Homes (Bagmugalia) also reported Covid-19 infections. One Tree Hills (Bairagarh), Parash Height (Karond) Fiza Colony (Karond), Bagh Umrao Dulah, Apsara Talkies, PHC (Ratibad) and Ayodhya Bypass area along with colonies like Semra Kalan, Ashok Vihar(Anand Nagar), Sagar Land Mark, Santoshi Vihar and Arjun Nagar, also reported new cases of infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopals-covid-tally-breaches-5k-mark/articleshow/77135526.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: Absence of bed data, single helpline disrupt Covid fight||PUNE: A failure to offer patients real-time updates on bed availability and the absence of a centralised command and control room — with a single helpline — has thrown Pune region’s Covid-19 management systems into chaos.  Late on Thursday, the live dashboard showed 43 vacant ICU beds with ventilator support in the region. Within PMC limits, there were none. The PCMC displayed 25 vacant beds, but there was no data from hospitals within the cantonment boards here.  Rohan Shetty, an activist, said the dashboard is nearly useless. “The 10-day lockdown was enforced to shore up hospital beds. That improvement is not showing on the dashboard. And why do we still don't have a single control room number?" The officer on special duty to the divisional commissioner, Saurabh Rao, said hospitals have been warned of action if they do not submit data on beds. “Yes, there is a shortage of ventilator beds in Pune city. But patients can be sent to hospitals in PCMC limits or other areas. By Friday, most hospitals are expected to finish updates," he said. Rao added that over the past one month, testing has increased cases. For example, in the last four weeks, over one lakh samples have been tested within PMC limits - with a positivity rate of 27%. That's nearly 27,000 new patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/absence-of-bed-data-single-helpline-disrupt-covid-fight/articleshow/77136283.cms||Nisha Nambiar
July 24, 2020||Mysuru||94-year-old woman among eight Covid fatalities in Mysuru||Mysuru: A 94-year-old woman who succumbed to novel coronavirus in Mysuru was among the eight patients who fell prey to the Covid-19 infection in the district on Thursday. In addition to the eight fatalities, the district also reported 116 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking its overall tally to 2,169, of which 1,345 are still active cases. The death toll in Mysuru, meanwhile, has touched 93. The nonagenarian had been hospitalised on Wednesday complaining of cough and breathlessness. Doctors said that she had pre-existing medical problems owing to her advanced years. Moreover, flow of blood to her brain was another complication, they added. Meanwhile, two people fell prey to the pandemic in Mandya district, which added 50 more patients to its Covid-19 tally on Thursday. The death toll in Mandya now stands at nine, while the number of active cases in the district is now 301.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/94-year-old-woman-among-eight-covid-fatalities-in-mysuru/articleshow/77134417.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Mysuru||Madikeri GP sealed down after 2 staff test +ve||Madikeri: The district post office at Madikeri was sealed down for two days after two employees tested positive on Thursday. The patients, a 49-year-old man and a 21-year-old youth — both living in the staff quarters behind the post office — were diagnosed Influenza Like Illness, said sources. While the post office has been sealed down for two days, staff quarters has been sealed down for 14 days. 13 fresh cases in KodaguKodagu on Thursday recorded 13 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the active cases to 94. The district added six more containment zones in the day day taking the total to 100.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/madikeri-gp-sealed-down-after-2-staff-test-ve/articleshow/77134690.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Hubballi||Labourers who returned to Koppal village contribute money for bus shelter||Koppal: It has been a summer of discontent for the thousands of migrant labourers who were compelled to leave their jobs and lives in urban centres behind and return home. However, in a small village in Koppal district, the labourers who have returned are unwilling to brood over the reversal in their fortunes and are more eager to work towards the development of their village. To this end, many of those who returned with money earned in several big cities including Bengaluru and Mumbai, decided to use that to build a much-needed bus shelter in Betageri village in Koppal. Holibasayya Hiremath, who worked at a hospital in Bengaluru, is among those who have returned to the village. Pointing to the plight of women, children and the elderly, who had a tough time waiting in the harsh Koppal sun for a bus, he decided to do his mite to improve their life. “People are forced to wait in the middle of the roads for the bus in our village. Although the government gave its nod for the construction of a bus shelter in Betageri last year, it was not constructed,” Hiremath told TOI. Along with eight to ten of his friends, most of whom returned to their village from big cities, Hiremath collected a sum of Rs 70,000, and initiated work on a bus shelter in Betageri. “When we expressed our wish to build a bus shelter, the gram panchayat provided us with land, and the work will be completed soon,” Hiremath said. Bharamappa Kambali, president of the Betageri GP, said that they allotted a plot of 18ftx12ft for the construction of the shelter. “Our village was supposed to be allocated 38 guntas for the bus shelter. But it did not happen. Now that the bus shelter is in place, the villagers no longer have to wait on the road. We are really grateful to the labourers who returned home and decided to do something for their village,” Kambali said. Divisional controller of North East Karnataka Road Transport Corporation MA Mulla said that the NEKRTC had no qualms in taking over the management of the shelter if the GP hands it over to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/labourers-who-returned-to-koppal-village-contribute-money-for-bus-shelter/articleshow/77133290.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
July 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fake drug accused sent to 5-day remand||Ahmedabad: A local court on Thursday granted five-day custodial interrogation for two accused who were arrested for alleged sale of fake tocilizumab injections to Covid-19 patients in Surat and Ahmedabad. The city crime branch, which has taken over the probe in this controversial racket amid pandemic, had sought seven days’ police remand for Nilesh Laliwala and Harsh Thakor, who were produced before the court on Thursday after they were tested negative for Covid-19. There are three more accused — Ashish Shah, Akshay Shah, Sohail Tai — who have not been arrested yet. In its remand application, the probe agency cited nine reasons for custodial interrogation and said that it wanted to find out who else are involved in this racket, and who are other patients the spurious drug was sold. The racket was busted after the accused sold three packs of drug to daughter of a Covid patient admitted in a private hospital in Ahmedabad for Rs 1.35 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fake-drug-accused-sent-to-5-day-remand/articleshow/77136301.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Mysuru||Debt-ridden farmer ends life in Kodagu village||Madikeri: A 58-year-old farmer has committed suicide after failing to repay the loans at Besuru village of Somwarpet taluk in the district. The deceased is Naganna. He owned 1acre land in the village, and had availed agriculture loan of Rs 80,000 from Besuru Primary Agriculture Cooperative Society. Naganna’s son is suffering from prolonged illness, while his daughter had undergone a surgery recently. It is said the mounting debts — to the tune of Rs 3 lakh — had left him depressed. On Thursday morning, Naganna went to his field and consumed poison. He was given first-aid at a hospital in Shanivarsanthe before being shifted to Hassan. However, he died there as he could respond to treatment. Naganna is survived by his wife and two children. A case has been filed at Shanivarsanthe police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/debt-ridden-farmer-ends-life-in-kodagu-village/articleshow/77134207.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Hyderabad||NRIs protest on Capitol Hill, slam senator||HYDERABAD: Indians, including many Telugus, rallied at Capitol Hill, Washington DC demanding the passage of a key legislation that seeks to reduce the green card backlog. They protested against senator Dick Durbin, alleging he is a racist, for blocking the bill. A green card allows immigrants permanent residency in the country and the wait for Indians can be as much as 150 years. The S386 bill seeks to remove the country cap of 7 per cent on green cards. “There are lakhs of Indians waiting to get a green card. Senator Dick Durbin is the only one blocking it,” said Gopal Krishna, a native of Vijayawada, who moved to the US in 2002. “I applied for a green card nine years ago and am still waiting,” he said. The rally started from the senate office and went up to the Capitol Hill. Protesters shouted slogans alleging Durbin was an “ethnic cleanser”, a “racist” and someone who “hates immigrants.” Incidentally, Democratic US presidential nominee Joe Biden has made several pro-immigrant statements through his rallies. The protest took place a day after senator Durbin blocked the bill again, stating that he wanted to add a caveat to protect immigrant children specifically. Rohit Sharma, a protester, said, “Immigrant children (H4 dependants) are already protected in the current bill. Durbin’s recent remarks are just a delaying tactic.” Agreeing with Rohit, Vishnu (17) a native of Tenali, AP said, “I have been in the US for the past seven years. I have to think twice about applying to college because I am a dependent.” Immigrant children depend on their parents for retaining their visa status, a job loss could affect their chances of staying in the country. Many colleges do not prefer admitting H4 dependants because of this uncertainty. Several Indian children aged between two and 18 had also participated in the protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nris-protest-on-capitol-hill-slam-senator/articleshow/77136299.cms||Uttara Varma
July 24, 2020||Lucknow||‘Need to set up energy account divisions in Uttar Pradesh’||LUCKNOW: Union minister for power Raj Kumar Singh on Thursday pressed for setting up of energy account divisions across the state to measure, analyse and report energy consumption during a review meeting with CM Yogi Adityanath. An energy account division should be constituted under a senior official in every distribution company and a division/circle wise energy account published to usher efficiency in power distribution, said Singh. The Union minister also underlined the need for metering of transformers and installation of smart and pre-paid electricity meters to lower line losses, a key deterrent in wheeling round-the-clock power supply in the state. This was Singh’s first meeting with CM Yogi Adityanath to assess power distribution in the state amidst the pandemic. Energy accounting is essentially done to improve power distribution efficiency and monitor environmental impact of energy consumption. Singh said, the Centre would provide funds for electrification of far-flung hamlets in the state. “The country has not only achieved self-reliance, but was in a position to export power. The transmission capacity across the country has been strengthened to the extent of transferring 1 lakh MW of power from one region to another,” he said. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said, the state government was committed to provide 24-hour power supply, which was not disrupted even during the Covid-induced pandemic. The chief minister said, the state government has launched a campaign to provide power connections to consumers in the state. Joint secretary in the Union power ministry, Mrityunjay Kumar Narayan, also made a presentation on electrification in the state. Narayan, who was earlier CM Yogi’s secretary, said, in the last three years as many as 1.21 lakh hamlets in the state were electrified and 1.24 crore connections were provided. “The power situation has improved in the state,” Narayan said. Singh was told that the state government had set a target of installing 40 lakh smart meters, of which 10 lakh have been installed. Also, the state managed to establish 423 new distribution sub-stations. Additional chief secretary, power, Arvind Kumar, said, the state government laid an elaborate blueprint to lessen line losses by 2024. He said, the state government was also conducting energy audits of various feeders, besides setting up dedicated police stations to curb power theft.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/need-to-set-up-energy-account-divs-in-state/articleshow/77136897.cms||Pankaj Shah
July 24, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra minister hints at curbs but no more lockdown||PUNE: Health minister Rajesh Tope dropped hint that there might not be more lockdowns in the state but the restrictions would remain in place. Tope told TOI that people would have to follow the social distancing norms and other guidelines laid down by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). On the fresh round of lockdowns in Pune and many other districts, Tope said these were essential to break the coronavirus chain and ramp up the infrastructure as well as testing facilities. “There can be seen a rise in cases because of enhanced testing including antigen tests,” Tope said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/min-hints-at-curbs-but-no-more-lockdown/articleshow/77136302.cms||Nisha Nambiar
July 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Seniors not keen for a role in BJP state committee||HYDERABAD: Telangana BJP’s state committee is likely to be formed soon. However, there are no takers for various positions in the committee among the seniors who have joined from other parties. Many who were eying the state president’s post, succeeding Dr K Laxman, before Bandi Sanjay Kumar was given the charge, are said to be interested in taking positions at the national level. The list of such leaders includes former Congress leaders DK Aruna and P Sudhakar Reddy, G Vivek from TRS and Motkupalli Narasimhulu from TDP who are not keen to be part of the new executive committee to be formed. As per the BJP’s internal constitution, the state executive committee changes along with new state chief. Among the seniors, Vivek is being offered the general secretary post, but is reportedly not keen to take up the role. There is a speculation that members in the old committee may not have much chance with Sanjay looking for new faces. Insiders said local leaders and district-level leaders, especially those with strong RSS links, are lobbying for some key posts. As per new rules of the party, the state executive committee will have five new vice-presidents, four secretaries, four general secretaries, a treasurer and official spokespersons. The central party leadership is believed to have told Sanjay to give importance to those who are below 35 and give them positions in Yuva Morcha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/seniors-not-keen-for-a-role-in-bjp-state-committee/articleshow/77136312.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 24, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Pune’s 24-hour case count drops after steepest rise, 58 more die||PUNE: The daily Covid-19 tally recorded a major drop in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Thursday with 2,368 cases being recorded in the last 24 hours as against a record 3,218 cases on Wednesday. With this, PMR’s tally surged to 62,002 on Thursday. Besides, 58 more patients succumbed to coronavirus in PMR on Wednesday, pushing the casualties in the region to 1,562. Among the new cases, Pune municipal limits recorded 1,661, taking its tally to 40,721. The Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits added 399 new cases, pushing its case count up to 14,145, while rural and Cantonment areas reported 308 new cases, keeping their total count to 7,136. A PMC report stated that 779 patients were discharged on Thursday, taking the cured count in municipal limits to 25,838. As many as 589 patients were at critical stage and 82 were on ventilator support in PMC limits till Thursday evening. The active caseload in PMC increased to 17,053 by Thursday night. As for testing, PMC conducted 6,665 tests on Thursday, including rapid antigen tests. Among the deaths reported on Thursday, the youngest patient to succumb to the contagion was a 28-year-old man from Tingrenagar. The available data showed that the oldest patient who died in the last 24 hours was a 77-year-old man from Wadgaon. Most of the deceased were above 50 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citys-24-hour-case-count-drops-after-steepest-rise-58-more-die/articleshow/77136305.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Sainik Farm RWA’s centre to house Covid-hit poor is a huge hit||NEW DELHI: A Covid care facility started over a month ago by Western Avenue Residents’ Welfare Association in Sainik Farm has become a model for others. The initiative was started on June 16 to help domestic workers, their families and people living in the nearby jhuggis who were facing problems in accessing hospitals. Seeing the RWA’s efforts, the local administration and councillors pitched in with necessary approvals and provided a location for setting up the centre, besides recommending patients there. “We are thankful to district magistrate BM Mishra who not just supported the idea, but helped in getting all approvals. The area councillor, Maya Bisht, aided in setting up the facility at the SDMC primary school in Pushp Vihar-III,” said Ashim Badhwar, executive member of the RWA. So far, 50 people from poor families living in areas like the Sainik Farm jhuggis, Dakshinpuri and Sangam Vihar have been lodged at this care centre. Of these, 36 have recovered. “After we were allotted the school premises, RWA members started collecting medicines, RO water purifiers, coolers, oximeters, oxygen cylinders, steamers, towels, bedsheets, etc for patients. Later, we realised that these people would require regular health check-ups and supervision as well as extracurricular activities for their mental well-being,” said Hardeep Singh Bhalla, RWA president. The association tied up with two doctors to visit the patients, engaged an attendant and spoke to a nearby gurdwara for supplying meals twice daily. Two yoga experts, who recovered from Covid 19 from the centre, were hired for taking regular sessions and arranging for other extracurricular activities and games, such as football. “The facilities were added one by one to help people fight the infection and make this phase an enjoyable experience. Our members take turns in visiting the facility to ensure everything is under control. We are consulting the administration for antigen and other tests,” said Arvind Jain, the RWA vice-president. The centre shared details of 26 recovered patients with Delhi government who were ready to donate plasma. Of them, seven have already made the donation. Many NGOs and companies have now come forward to provide sanitisers, oximeters, medical kits, snacks and other facilities at the centre. “The alumni of London School of Economics have adopted 10 patients. A company sanitised the place after three days and another company donated sanitising machines,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/yes-we-care-sainik-farm-rwas-centre-to-house-covid-hit-poor-is-a-huge-hit/articleshow/77136319.cms||Vibha Sharma
July 24, 2020||Lucknow||UP govt releases Rs 25 crore to speed up Kanhar dam project||LUCKNOW: Giving a push to the long-awaited Kanhar dam project, the state government has released a sum of Rs 25 crore for the project that will mitigate water crisis in the drought-prone Sonbhadra region. This is the first installment of Rs 180 crore sanctioned for the project by UP government in budget 2020-21. A government missive sent to the engineer-in-chief of the irrigation department on July 22 said the amount should be used for major construction work of the dam, its associated workers and construction of canals. It further stated that the amount should be spent in July, August and September. The irrigation department is constructing a 39-metre high and 3.2km-long dam to store 0.15 million acre feet of water. The project envisages construction of 121km-long canals to irrigate more than 35,000 hectares of agricultural land and will benefit 108 villages in Duddhi and Chopan development blocks of Sonbhadra. Initiated in 1976 by the then Congress regime, the initial cost of Kanhar Dam project was about Rs 28 crore, which escalated to over Rs 2,200 crore following repeated delays. According to the irrigation department records, the constriction of the dam remained stalled between 1983 and 2001, even as the state government struggled to acquire land for the project. The project moved at snail’s pace over the years as the cost estimated by the Central Water Commission and the state government shot off to over Rs 2,200 crore. After coming to power in UP, Yogi government expedited the project and allocated Rs 80 crore for it in the supplementary budget in December 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-govt-releases-rs-25-crore-to-speed-up-kanhar-dam-project/articleshow/77136902.cms||Pankaj Shah
July 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||As pandemic hits sales, mall rentals cut by up to 50%||Ahmedabad: With sales at stores in malls falling due to the pandemic, shopowners are facing a severe revenue shortage. Consequently, store rentals have been slashed by between 30% and 50% at malls in Ahmedabad, according to industry estimates. Customer footfalls have fallen greatly at malls, as the number of Covid-19 cases are still rising. “Rent revisions have been given to all brands that asked for it. We have reduced rent by 30% to 50% for some whereas others have opted for a revenue-sharing model for a period of 6-9 months i.e. till the end of the current financial year,” said Aditya Shah, chief financial officer, Gulmohar Park Mall in Ahmedabad. With footfalls falling, revenues of stores in malls have been badly hit. “Customer footfalls have declined by 80% and sales have been badly hit. Customers don’t come for window shopping and there is hardly any impulse buying. Those who come, do so with a fixed budget. In such a situation, it is difficult for storeowners to sustain costs, especially rent,” said Jatin Shah (name changed), the owner of a clothing retail store at a mall in the city. “We have asked to renegotiate rental terms. Despite a reduction in rent, we are unable to sustain the costs of operation,” he added. A source who is employed at a store in a mall said, “Footfalls have gone down and people are planning their purchases. The ticket size has increased by 20% but despite this revenues are a concern.” Jayen Naik, senior vice president, operations, Ahmedabad One Mall, said, “The situation is improving but it is not a very conducive time either for mall owners or retailers. We have made our best efforts to reduce rent or provide an alternative revenue-sharing model to stores so we can mutually sustain business.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/as-pandemic-hits-sales-mall-rentals-cut-by-up-to-50/articleshow/77136315.cms||Niyati Parikh
July 24, 2020||Mysuru||Fear-stricken villagers inNanjangud stop burial||Mysuru: Although the jury is still out on whether or not the Covid-19 infection has reached the scale of community transmission, it can be said without much doubt that the fear of contracting the novel coronavirus certainly has. In an illustration of the prevalence of this fear among the populace, residents of Hanchipura village in Nanjangud taluk, Mysuru on Wednesday evening tried to stop the burial of a man, fearful of his having been a victim of the pandemic. The deceased was a resident of Bengaluru with roots in the Nanjangud village, and his family was keen on laying him to rest in his hometown. However, on seeing an ambulance, an earth moving machine and five cars, all of which bore registration plates of Bengaluru, panic-stricken villagers gathered in large numbers, leading to a tense atmosphere. Furthermore, the burial was to take place not at a public graveyard but on property owned by the family. When the villagers refused to allow the family to perform the last rites, police were called to the spot. The bereaved kin were forced to take the body back to Bengaluru. The villagers were, unfortunately not done venting their frustration completely yet. When the entourage was returning to Bengaluru, a few miscreants pelted stones at the vehicles. Unfortunately, four of the cars lost its way, and took a detour towards Hediyala Road, which led to neighbouring Hosavidu village. Hanchipura residents alerted those in Hosavidu about the possibility of the people in the car being carriers of Covid-19, following which the vehicle was forced to halt. Police were summoned yet again, and they ensured that the car was diverted to Bengaluru. Infuriated residents of Hosavidu started abusing one of the cops, left alone by a police team accidentally while returning, for trying to protect the influential people – the family was reportedly distantly related to a senior politician. When the cop was denied passage, elders of the village intervened and rescued him. Nanjangud police have booked cases against residents of Hanchipura for damaging cars, while Hosavidu villagers have been charged with preventing a cop from discharging duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/fear-stricken-villagers-innanjangud-stop-burial/articleshow/77134462.cms||Lawrence Milton
July 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Reopening of schools linked to parents’ view||HYDERABAD: The views of parents on when schools should be reopened will be taken in writing from them. The District Education Officer (DEO) of Nagarkurnool, Govindrarajulu has asked that opinions be gathered from parents on whether schools should reopen in August, September or October considering the Covid situation. The distribution of free textbooks for government school students will take place on July 24 and 25 by public representatives. The headmasters have also been asked to take up Haritha Haram on the premises of the schools. Panchayat Raj minister E Dayakar Rao, who distributed school textbooks in Parvathagiri in Warangal rural said classes will be started through TSAT initially and students will have to attend classes. The date of reopening of schools will be decided later. He said there were 29,790 schools in the state with 26.37 lakh students and 1.51 cr textbooks were being distributed to students. Tribal welfare minister Sathyavathi Rathod said distribution of textbooks was taken up so that students do not miss out on an academic year. She said CM K Chandrasekhar Rao was making plans to reopen schools but only after considering the Covid situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/reopening-of-schools-linked-to-parents-view/articleshow/77136916.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 24, 2020||Nagpur||OF unions, govt talks over strike on July 28||Nagpur: Ordnance factory unions and government have finally decided to negotiate a way out of strike threat by the former over move to corporatize the factories. The three recognized unions will hold a meeting on July 28 with secretary (defence production). The unions willmeet among themselves on Sunday to decide their stance for the meeting and then again on July 28 after meeting with the secretary to decide future course of action. The workers’ representatives have been given a choice to attend the meeting through video conferencing or come personally at the ministry’s office in south block, Delhi. Mukesh Singh, general secretary of Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh (BPMS), said the unions had earlier refused to take part in the proceedings of the high level official committee (HLOC) formed to work out corporatization of the ordnance factory board (OFB). This was because the unions have already rejected the idea of corporatization completely. “We are ready to discuss any topic other than corporatization. On these grounds, we have agreed to meet the secretary (defence production),” said Singh. Officials of the Ordnance Factory Board will also be present in the meet. Singh said his union will be asking the government to give the factories five years to revamp their functioning. The government has already invited proposals for appointing a consultant for corporatization process. Other unions in the factory are All India Defence Workers Federation (AIDWF) and Indian National Defence Workers’ Federation (INDEF).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/of-unions-govt-talks-over-strike-on-july-28/articleshow/77170095.cms||Shishir Arya
July 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Denied hospital bed, ASI dies of Covid-19||HYDERABAD: An assistant sub-inspector (ASI), who failed to get hospital admission in Hyderabad, died of Covid-19 while undergoing treatment at Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Adilabad on Thursday. According to police sources, the 55-year-old ASI had not been keeping well because of pneumonia. He travelled to Hyderabad to get admitted in some hospital. The hospitals reportedly informed him that there were no availability of beds and did not admit him. The ASI returned to Adilabad and got himself admitted in RIMS on Wednesday. After his death on Thursday, a Covid-19 test was conducted, which showed he was positive. A resident of Khanapur Colony in Adilabad, the ASI was working with Adilabad I Town police. The ASI, who had been serving the department for 35 years, is survived by wife and three sons. Recently, an ASI of Banjara Hills police station who died of Covid-19 had tested negative four times before he got admitted to a hospital. Meanwhile, four cops working with Chennur police station also tested positive for coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/denied-hosp-bed-asi-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/77136326.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 24, 2020||Bhopal||Nath writes to PM Modi, says federal system under attack||Bhopal: Former chief minister Kamal Nath shot a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to draw his attention “to the spread of an undemocratic epidemic in India”. “With efforts of every citizen through the decades, India has emerged as the most experienced democracy. According to the father of the Constitution, Babasaheb Ambedkar, the most beautiful aspect of our democracy is the federal structure,” Nath wrote. The PCC president said that there were persons in the Constituent Assembly who wanted a unitary system in which all powers would be vested at the Centre. “Babasaheb’s efforts gave this country a federal system in which the Centre and states got different autonomy,” Nath argued. “India’s federal system is the reason why we have a different identity in the world. But for some time, Babasaheb’s sentiments are being hurt and the federal structure is being attacked,” Nath wrote in his letter to PM Modi. The former Union minister’s letter said that toppling of an elected government in Madhya Pradesh “is the most deplorable chapter in the history of Indian democracy”. “It shudders our hearts to think that while the entire human race is fighting for its survival, BJP senior leaders, including the former health minister went to Bengaluru to bring down a government and left the people of Madhya Pradesh to struggle with the pandemic,” Nath wrote. The former health minister Nath referred to is Tulsi Silawat, now minister for water resources in the BJP-led Shivraj Singh Chouhan government. Nath claimed that people are discussing how some opportunistic and greedy leaders did not allow the Union government to announce the Covid-19 lockdown before March 24 because they had to topple a government. “Even now, BJP is enticing rival party MLAs, getting them to resign and join their party while burdening the state and its people with bypolls,” the letter alleged. Nath wrote, “My concern is not just that the Congress government was toppled in MP, but that a huge earthquake has shaken the democratic system and it is suspected that the epicentre is at the Centre. I hope my suspicion is baseless and you will come forward to uphold India’s democratic values.” Nath also urged PM Modi not to permit the entry of opportunistic leaders in his party or give them positions. Incidentally, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot also wrote a letter to PM Modi on Wednesday, alleging the role of the Centre in attempts to topple the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nath-writes-to-pm-modi-says-federal-system-under-attack/articleshow/77135546.cms||Suchandana Gupta
July 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Infra firm owner booked for cheating in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: The owner of a prominent construction firm was booked on Thursday after another construction firm accused the firm’s owner, with whom there was a business agreement over construction of villas, of cheating him of Rs 75 crore. The accused was called to the Banjara Hills police station on Thursday for questioning. The firm’s owner was served a notice to reappear before the police and later let off. A few months ago, the companies had entered into an agreement over construction of villas on 16 acres of land in Narsingi and to share the profits, however, the complainant alleged that the accused had breached the trust. “The complainant claimed that he incurred a loss of Rs 75 crore. We are investigating the case,” said Banjara Hills inspector Kalinga Rao. Meanwhile, a few days ago, the accused had filed a case against one of his relatives, stating that his relative had taken away several of his land documents worth crores from his office besides a weapon, following which a case was registered against the relative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/infra-firm-owner-booked-for-cheating/articleshow/77136320.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Clamour for local goods likely to benefit Etikoppaka toy industry||VISAKHAPATNAM: Even though the traditional, eco-friendly Etikoppaka wooden lacquer-ware and toy craft industry of Andhra Pradesh has been hit by the pandemic, all is not lost.  Stakeholders in the industry believe that the temporary ban imposed on Chinese toys, could help fuel demand for the toys. Speaking to TOI, President’s awardee master craftsman C V Raju from Etikoppaka toy village said, “Although right now we do not have a market, an exhibition to showcase or sell our craft, but we would be training tribal youths from Araku as the area has natural resources such as trees of neeradu (black-berry) and panasa (jackfruit) for the wood and natural colours. Talented locals, interested in picking up the craft outside Etikoppaka and popularising it, would be trained.” Raju had already begun training a few locals from Chompi village in Araku in the wood turning process in the months prior to the pandemic. The skilling station at Araku was an empowerment programme jointly initiated by Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), AP State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC) and Disa Welfare Society. “The target is to make at least 100 skilled artisans produce Araku crafts using local material and native talent. After the training, one of them will be selected as master craftsman, who, in turn, will train more locals. The Araku-made crafts can be marketed by the tribal museum over there,” said Raju, who is the director of Padmavathi Associates of Artisans and took the initiative of reviving the Etikoppaka craft in the 1980s. Meanwhile, the India-China face-off has led to demands for boycotting of Chinese products, including toys, and focusing on locally-made items. Hence, despite the adverse impact of Covid-19 on their business, the Etikoppaka toymakers expect renewed demand for their products due to the unavailability of cheap Chinese alternatives. Earlier, the dumping of identical cheap Chinese wooden toys had hit Etikoppaka artisans as they could neither compete with their pricing, nor their marketing. Giving an example, senior artisan of Etikoppaka, Srisailapu Chinnayya Chari said a few traders purchase Chinese toys at Rs 100 and sell it for Rs 300 by branding them as Etikoppaka toys. “These traders have stopped placing orders for toys from China following the call for economic boycott of Chinese products by India. We are hoping that the traders will procure more quantity of Etikoppaka toys in the coming days and expecting a bright future for our make-in-Etikoppaka toys,” he said. Around 150 artisans in the village used to produce over Rs 20 to Rs 30 lakh worth toys in a month. “The production depends on the orders from traders and e-commerce platforms (online retailers). Due to the pandemic, the production has drastically dipped and artisans are seeking financial aid from the government. But we are expecting that the past glory of the art will return with the ban on imports from China,” said 28-year-old noted artisan, Peddapati Rama Venkata Satyanarayana, popularly called Sarath. The Etikoppaka artisans are currently getting some funds for sustenance from Telugu Association of North America (TANA) and certain NRI organisations from USA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/clamour-for-local-goods-likely-to-benefit-etikoppaka-toy-industry/articleshow/77135554.cms||Sulogna Mehta
July 24, 2020||Meerut||‘It is not your aunt’s govt’, says BJP’s Sangeet Som after SP MP seeks relaxation on Bakra-Eid||Meerut: BJP MLA Sangeet Som on Thursday slammed SP MP Shafiqur Rehman Barq for demanding that Muslims be allowed to offer prayers in mosques on Eid-ul-Adha to “eliminate” Covid-19.“Things have to be done according to the law. If he (Barq) doesn’t do things keeping the law and order situation in mind, then just like Azam Khan, he will have to celebrate Eid in jail,” Som said.He added, “It is not the government of your ‘khaala’ (aunt’s), it is the BJP government. This will never be allowed.”On Monday, the fifth term MP demanded that Muslims be allowed to offer community prayers in mosques on Eid.He gave a memorandum to Sambhal district magistrate Avinash Krishan. “Only limited people are allowed to offer prayers in mosques. This won’t be sufficient. Authorities must allow all Muslims to offer namaz in order to get rid of Covid-19 pandemic and save the world," the 90-year-old leader said.Barq also demanded that the animal sacrifice should be allowed on the occasion.To it, Som said, “Why is sacrificing an animal important? One can celebrate a festival by eating 'daal' and 'aaloo' (potatoes) too. To maintain social distancing and prevent overcrowding, temples as well as mosques have been closed. It is important to see that all safety measures for Covid-19 are being followed.”ReplyReply to allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/it-is-not-your-aunts-govt-says-bjps-sangeet-som-after-sp-mp-seeks-relaxation-on-bakra-eid/articleshow/77135564.cms||Ishita Bhatia
July 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Unclaimed male calves create flutter||Ahmedabad: The presence of over 50 male calves in the Vasna barrage compound on Thursday created a flutter even as it was not clear until evening as to who left the calves in the compound. The Vasna barrage compound is run by the state irrigation department. Nanubhai Rabari, who works as a security guard at the compound, said that at around 11:30am, he was taking a round of the compound to check whether the bore well was functioning, when he noticed more than 50 male calves grazing in the compound. “I have been working here for 36 years, but never have so many animals strayed in. I believe someone must have left the calves here,” Rabari said. He added that a portion of the rear wall of the compound has been broken and the calves must have entered from that spot. “Interestingly, all the calves are males. I informed officials of the department about the presence of the calves,” he said, adding that he checked with cattle owners staying in the vicinity, but none of them claimed that the calves were theirs. Rabari called a panjrapole, but was informed that they would not be able to arrive at the compound to take the calves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/unclaimed-male-calves-create-flutter/articleshow/77136330.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Aurangabad||Over 100 cases reported across Kolhapur||Kolhapur: The daily figure of Covid-19 positive cases reported across Kolhapur district once again crossed the three-figure mark on Thursday. According to a health official, patients from Kolhapur city were reported from areas like Fulewadi, Y P Powar Nagar, Sarnobatwadi, Yadav Nagar,R K Nagar, Sambhaji Nagar, Gajanan Maharaj Nagar, Nathagole Talim and Pragati Nagar, Sane Guruji Vasahat, Kasba Bawda, Jawahar Nagar, Kawla Naka, Nagla Park, Shukrawar peth, Shahu Nagar, Raman Mala, Rankala and Rajarampuri and Siddharth Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/over-100-cases-reported-across-kolhapur/articleshow/77136329.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Hyderabad||5 lakh hit by Army closure of roads in Cantonment||SECUNDERABAD: A population of over five lakh in nearly 10 to 15 divisions of three major GHMC circles, including Malkajgiri, Alwal and Kapra has been affected with the Local Military Authority’s decision to close civilian roads in AOC circle and north-east Secunderabad. Several residents said that they are having to take a long detour round the AOC circle and main roads to reach their workplace. For instance, Alwal, Neredmet, Moula Ali, East Anand Bagh, Malkajgiri, Goutham Nagar, Kapra, AS Rao Nagar, R K Puram and adjoining areas of three GHMC circles intersect AOC circle. Meanwhile, the United Federation of Resident Welfare Associations (UFERWAS) has urged the LMA to keep the roads open. “We had passed a resolution in its general body meeting held a couple of years ago demanding LMA to keep all the civilian roads open,” B T Srinivasan, UFERWAS general secretary, said. Sources said that laying alternative roads is a tough task for the LMA, as it has to part with defence land. Secretary of the Federation of North Eastern Colonies of Secunderabad, C S Chandrasekhar, said, “We oppose laying of alternative roads and demand LMA to implement the Centre’s orders to keep all the civilian roads open.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/5-lakh-hit-by-army-closure-of-roads-in-cantonment/articleshow/77136331.cms||Sunil Mungara
July 24, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Abandoned SUV in Auraiya with a Dubey coincidence helped bust fake kidnap plot||LUCKNOW: An abandoned car on a highway near Auraiya, 48 hours after the Bikru ambush had sent alarm bells ringing in police control room over the possibility of it being the getaway vehicle of gangster Vikas Dubey. A blood-soaked handkerchief and the surname Dubey in registration documents stashed in the car’s dashboard gave grist to rumour mills about the don trying to fox cops by hitch-hiking his way to a safer hideout. But the spotlight on the dark grey car with a Dubey coincidence helped cops unearth a sinister plan by its owner and Lucknow businessman Amit Dubey, to fake his abduction to skirt repaying Rs 78 lakh loan. Dubey, who was arrested by Auraiya police, was found possessing a sub-inspector’s identity card, which he used to threaten his business rivals. Amit had in fact faked his kidnapping and abandoned his dark grey SUV near Auraiya-Dibiyapur bypass near the highway on July 5, when Vikas Dubey was on the run with aides. Since the documents recovered from the car, bearing Lucknow registration number, showed it belonged to an Amit Dubey, cops assumed he might have links with the gangster. Superintendent of police, Auraiya, Suniti told TOI, “We checked the ID of sub-inspector and found he’s now posted as inspector in Faizabad district. We summoned him, but did not get positive response. We will write to SSP Faizabad now,” she said. Dubey claimed to be founder of Bharatiya Hindu Sangathan party. Crime branch sleuths of Auraiya police interrogated Amit Dubey and said he used the ID card of sub-inspector to threaten rivals. “Dubey used the ID card to not pay toll tax and bully a petrol pump owner to refill engine oil for free,” further said the officer. Auraiya police checked financial dealings of Dubey and found he had taken Rs 40 lakh from Dr S S Thakur, Rs 15 lakh from one Bhupendra Singh, both of Jalaun, Rs 3 lakh from Mohit Shukla and Rs 8 lakh from Satyanarayan, both of Kanpur Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/abandoned-suv-in-auraiya-with-a-dubey-coincidence-helped-bust-fake-kidnap-plot/articleshow/77136907.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Delhi||Man runs from pillar to post for surgery, HC raps hosps||NEW DELHI: A patient who was removed from the operation theatre and asked to undergo a Covid-19 test despite being cleared for surgery is all set to get treated after the intervention of Delhi high court. Ishwar was asked to first get tested for Covid despite showing no symptoms prior to a scheduled surgery. When he tried to get the test done, the authorities refused as he showed no symptoms. The outcome was a saga where he was made to shuttle between Delhi government hospitals for months. Taking note of his travails, Justice Navin Chawla on Wednesday castigated GTB, Lok Nayak and Bhagwan Mahaveer hospitals for their “utter apathy” in ensuring healthcare facilities were given to poor patients. The court also compensated Ishwar by slapping a cost of Rs 50,000 on Delhi government and Rs 1 lakh on Bhagwan Mahaveer hospital, payable to the patient seeking treatment under the economically weaker category. It has directed DDU hospital to examine the patient this week and inform the court when the surgery could be carried out. “This case reflects the utter apathy of the respondent hospitals,” Justice Chawla noted, adding that Ishwar’s plight also shows that Delhi government “also has no regard to the misery of the citizens and was acting with complete apathy.” While pointing out how the patient was made to run from one hospital to another as they kept getting converted into Covid centres, the court said, “In the name of the pandemic, Delhi government wishes to submit that people suffering from other ailments do not deserve a timely treatment and can continue to suffer.” According to the petition filed by Ishwar through advocate Yogesh Kumar, he underwent a surgery at a government hospital last year for acute stomach pain. A follow-up surgery was due on March 27. But due to the lockdown, the operation was postponed. As Lok Nayak was declared Covid-dedicated hospital, he approached GTB, went back to the former, before approaching GTB again and then finally to Bhagwaan Mahaveer hospital. When the court sought to know from the government why even the latest hospital refused treatment, the government said Ishwar had to undergo an elective surgery and in view of the present situation of the pandemic, it might be risky for him. However, Ishwar’s advocate Yogesh Kumar informed the court that his client had clearly stated that he was willing to undertake this risk and would like to undergo the surgery as he feared that he might develop an infection from the earlier surgery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-runs-from-pillar-to-post-for-surgery-hc-raps-hosps/articleshow/77136333.cms||Abhinav Garg
July 24, 2020||Meerut||A criminal & a constable injured in encounter, two arrested, Rs 1.30 lakh cash seized||Muzaffarnagar: A police encounter here early morning on Thursday left a criminal and a policeman injured, while the criminal’s accomplice managed to flee. A search operation is being carried out to nab him. A motorcycle, a country-made gun, live cartridges and Rs 1.35 lakh in cash were seized from their possession.According to police, the criminals had robbed the owner of a medicine shop two days ago. Sources said Thursday’s encounter took place in Civil Lines police station area, when police on a routine checking drive tried to stop two suspects on a bike. They opened fire at the cops, injuring constable Israr Ahmed. One of the suspects was wounded in the exchange of fire and later arrested, while his associate managed to escape the spot.The arrested suspect was identified as Joni, who has half-a-dozen criminal cases against his name, and was named an accused in the recently committed loot of the owner of a medicine shop in Muzaffarnagar two days ago.Superintendent of police (city) Satpal Antil said, “We pressed four police teams to track the suspects. The encounter took place during a checking drive today. We have also arrested an employee of the medicine shop on suspicion of being involved in the loot. Further investigation is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/a-criminal-a-constable-injured-in-encounter-two-arrested-rs-1-30-lakh-cash-seized/articleshow/77135568.cms||Mohd Dilshad
July 24, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur city gripped by Covid||Kolhapur: The latest data released by the district administration indicates that Kolhapur as well as the tiny villages located on the periphery of the city are grappling with coronavirus. Local administration authorities have expressed concern about the rising number of Covid cases in the city as well as the district. As many as 101 cases were reported late on Wednesday. Authorities of the district administration’s health department are anxious as the recent patients were reported from 35 different areas of the city, indicating towards the rapidly spreading infection. According to authorities, there are two main findings about the possible spread of Covid-19 infection. One is the community spread in which two or more members of the same family are found to be infected with the virus. Secondly, children are found to be contracting the infection recently. As many as 12 children including two three-year-old girls, tested positive for Covid-19. The children also included a four-month-old baby from the Jawaharanagar area of the city. Meanwhile, 10 areas in the city have been completely sealed. Authorities said that earlier patients were found in congested areas and old parts of the city; however, positive cases are also being traced out in areas like Tarabai Park and Ruikar Colony which have no dense population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-city-gripped-by-covid/articleshow/77136322.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Bareilly||Indian Army clerk, 27, ends life over family disputes in Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: A 27-year-old clerk of the Indian Army, who had arrived at his native village Kasimpur under Bisalpur kotwali a few days ago on a month-long leave, allegedly committed suicide by consuming poisonous substance over family disputes. The victim, Ajay Kumar, was posted in Maharashtra’s Pune. Police sent the body for autopsy. According to the victim’s father Shri Krishna, his son had gone to his in-laws' home in Patel Nagar locality of Bisalpur city on Wednesday morning to deliver milk for his one and a half years old daughter as his wife had been staying with her parents for a past few days. "Ajay, who was disturbed because his wife had been pressing him to part ways with us, fainted after he returned home in the afternoon. We rushed him to a private hospital, where he died later,” said the father. “We came to know that my son had consumed poison after an argument with his wife,” added the father. SHO Sunil Kumar Sharma said they were waiting for the autopsy report, based on which further action would be taken as police had not received a complaint in this connection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/indian-army-clerk-27-ends-life-over-family-disputes-in-pilibhit/articleshow/77134468.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Mysuru||Cases continue to mount in C’magaluru, C’nagar||Chikkamagalur/ Chamarajanagar: The Covid-19 graph showed no signs of dipping in Chamarajanagar and Chikkamagaluru, with the two districts reporting 28 and 62 fresh infections respectively on Thursday. Of the 62 new cases reported in the Malnad district of Chikkamagaluru, Chikkamagaluru and Kadur taluks had 21 and 20 cases respectively, while Koppa, Sringeri, Tarikere, NR Pura and Mudigere taluks accounted for the remaining 41 cases among them. In Chamarajanagar, 22 were confirmed infected through the RTPCR test, while six others tested positive for the novel coronavirus via the rapid antigen test. While one person succumbed to the novel coronavirus in Chamarajanagar, two died of Covid-19 in Chikkamagaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cases-continue-to-mount-in-cmagaluru-cnagar/articleshow/77134488.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Vadodara||Notice issued to SSGH superintendent||Vadodara: The medical superintendent of the SSG Hospital (SSGH), the biggest hospital in the region, was issued a show cause notice for dereliction of duty. The step was taken after a report by the newly appointed administrator and advisor at the hospital pointed out at serious lapses at the hospital. Officer on special duty (OSD) for Covid-19 in central Gujarat, Vinod Rao, issued the show cause notice to the superintendent Dr Rajiv Daveshwar on Thursday evening. The superintendent has been asked to furnish a reply within a week. Rao said that several lapses had come to light during the visits to the hospital by administrator Ashok Patel and advisor Dr Minoo Patel. The duo had visited various department and met officials as well as agencies working at the hospital. Sources said that in some cases it had come to light that the number of equipment or items as claimed by the hospital did not match with the actual number. The factual report had gave details of such dereliction of duty and lapses on the part of the medical superintendent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/notice-issued-to-ssgh-superintendent/articleshow/77135724.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Traders’ lockdown in Khammam till July 28 as Covid-19 cases spike||HYDERABAD: With Covid-19 cases surging, traders and wholesalers have decided to observe a voluntary lockdown till July 28. The lockdown by the business community began on July 21. With as many as 20 Covid-19 deaths in Khammam so far, including some traders succumbing to the virus, the business community went for voluntary measures to prevent the spread of the virus. The kirana merchants have also restricted the number of working hours and observed a voluntary bandh for two days recently. Khammam is the nerve centre for trading with connections to Hyderabad and Vijayawada in Andhra Pradesh. A border district of Telangana, Khammam has strong connections with AP as there has been a lot of movement to the district. Thermal scanners are being used at the railway station to detect if those arriving in the town have any symptoms of the virus. “In recent days, the number of cases detected has gone up because of the increased testing. With the rapid antigen test kits, we are getting the results in about half an hour,” district collector RV Karnan told TOI. There have been 471 Covid-19 positive cases in Khammam out of which 52 have recovered. There are 399 active cases. The Government General Hospital, which has 100 beds, is now equipped with oxygen and 20 beds in ICU have as many ventilators. A Covid Care Centre has also been opened on the town outskirts which has accommodation for 100 people. According to the collector, another big concern this monsoon would be tackling the dengue cases. “The district has received 20% more rainfall than normal, receiving 600 mm in the last two months. During the monsoon, our focus is on preventing dengue cases and ensuring that there is no water stagnation,” the collector said. Last year, the district reported 1,972 dengue cases. During this season, 20 cases have been reported. “While the focus is most certainly on containing the spread of Covid-19, it becomes equally important to prevent dengue,” Karnan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/traders-lockdown-in-khammam-till-july-28-as-covid-19-cases-spike/articleshow/77136346.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Grad MLC polls: Kodandaram likely to take electoral plunge||HYDERABAD: Top leaders from various political parties are in the race for a berth in the Upper House of the state from the two graduate constituencies of Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda and Mahbunagar-Rangareddy-Hyderabad. Though forging alliances is still in nascent stages, aspirants are indulging in hectic lobbying to make it to the Telangana Legislative Council. The term of each member would be six years. Presently, the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda seat is held by TRS Rythu Bandhu Samithi chairman Palla Rajeshwar Reddy, a loyalist of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. Mahbubnagar- Rangareddy-Hyderabad seat was won by N Ramchander Rao of BJP. The term of both members will expire in February, 2021. Telangana Jana Samithi (TJS) founder-president M Kodandaram is likely to make his electoral debut from the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda graduates’ constituency MLC seat. Kodandaram enjoys a good following among students, unemployed, teachers and employees. “It will be appropriate for him to contest elections from the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda seat. We will seek support of Congress, TDP, CPI, CPI (ML) New Democracy and other employees, students, unemployed and civil society groups,” TJS general secretary G Venkat Reddy said. Congress said a decision on tie-ups will be taken by AICC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/grad-mlc-polls-kodandaram-likely-to-take-electoral-plunge/articleshow/77136343.cms||Roushan Ali
July 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Government sanctions funds after villagers lay road||Visakhapatnam: The government has sanctioned funds under the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (NREGS) for a road laid by tribal people of Madrubu village in Peddakotha panchayat in Anantigiri mandal. Vexed with the administration for its lack of response, the villagers had taken up the job of laying a 5km road themselves a few months ago. The road laid by villagers reduced the distance between the village and the primary health centre and the mandal headquarters significantly. The villagers started laying the road on March 6 and finished it within six days. All the villagers, in this village with a population of 250 people, took part in the road laying works. The government has sanctioned Rs 9.98 lakh under the rural connectivity project and included 358.1 days’ work under NREGS to award the villagers for their efforts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/govt-sanctions-funds-after-villagers-lay-road/articleshow/77135573.cms||Siva G
July 24, 2020||Kolhapur||Woman sentenced for killing husband||Kolhapur: Satara court has sentenced a 37-year-old woman to two and a half years of rigorous imprisonment for murdering her husband. The woman killed her husband by setting him ablaze, suspecting his character. District and session judge A A A R Auti sentenced the accused Seeta Balu Rokade, a resident of Riswad village in Patan tehsil of Satara district, after considering witnessES and circumstantial evidence. Nine witnesses appeared in the hearing. Milind Kulkarni, the assistant public prosecutor, said the incident took place on December 20, 2017. According to the prosecution, Seeta suspected her husband's character. She used to feel that her husband, Balu Rokade, was in a relationship with another woman of the village. The couple used to frequently fight over the issue. After a heated argument about the issue one day, the accused poured petrol on her husband and set him ablaze. The victim ran to his relative and told them his wife had set him on fire. The relatives rushed him to the nearest primary health centre. He was shifted to the Satara civil hospital, however, he died while undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/woman-sentenced-for-killing-husband/articleshow/77136341.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Human sacrifice in Gonda, accused held||LUCKNOW: Gonda police on Thursday arrested one person for the murder of 60-year-old Baburam in Colonelganj police circle of the district. During interrogation the accused told the police that he had no rivalry with Baburam, but had chopped his head off as a human sacrifice to please a deity. Further investigations are underway to decipher as to who prompted the accused to commit such a ghastly crime. SHO, Colonelganj, Rajnath Singh said that the 25-year-old accused Uday Prakash Shukla did not have any dispute or feud with Baburam or his family. “We are trying to ascertain what prompted him to take this step. A sharp-edged weapon was recovered and it would be used as evidence in the court,” he said. Singh further said that after the murder Shukla started making loud noises. He then asked people to get him arrested. “In the lock-up he kept on uttering some words which could not be deciphered,” he said. On the other hand, villagers disclosed that Shukla and his five brothers were unmarried and last week a priest had visited them. “The priest had told them if they would behead an old man in his sleep their marriages would be solemnised soon. It was to be done to please a deity,” one Nathu Ram told mediapersons. The police said that the Shukla family hardly interacted with others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/human-sacrifice-in-gonda-accused-held/articleshow/77136915.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Bareilly||Missing his family, suspected Covid-19 patient jumps off 2nd floor of dist hosp, sustains head injury||BAREILLY: Missing his family dearly, a 35-year-old patient with a complaint of breathlessness — and whose Covid-19 report is awaited — allegedly jumped off the second floor of the Moradabad district hospital in a bid to flee the isolation ward only to find himself admitted at the emergency ward with severe head injuries. According to district hospital authorities, the patient, a resident of Karula area under Katghar police station, Moradabad, jumped with the help of a pipe and landed at the first floor, and then he jumped on the ground and sustained a severe head injury. The patient was admitted to the isolation ward after he complained of breathing problem on Tuesday and his samples were sent for Covid-19 test, said the authorities. Chief medical superintendent, district hospital, Dr Jyotsna Pant said, “The patient was lying unconscious at the ground floor when hospital staff spotted him and admitted him to the emergency ward. Later, he will be shifted to the isolation ward. The patient said he was missing his family and wanted to meet them, so he took the step. We have, however, told him that he would be allowed to go home only if he tested negative for Covid-19. His reports expected to arrive shortly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/missing-his-family-suspected-covid-19-patient-jumps-off-2nd-floor-of-dist-hosp-sustains-head-injury/articleshow/77134494.cms||Maria Khan
July 24, 2020||Meerut||Man accused of ‘trapping’, killing mother-daughter duo caught, flees & again caught after encounter||Meerut: Hours after he “confessed” to have killed his live-in partner of five years and her minor daughter in Meerut, turning himself into a prized catch, the 35-year-old accused managed to give a slip to an entire police team while being escorted to his home where he had buried the victims. Mohammad Shamshad was soon caught, but not before an encounter. The template was the same as most of the other gun battles involving UP policemen and criminals. When surrounded, Shamshad opened fire at the police team which asked him to surrender. In retaliation, policemen also fired and he was hit in the legs, and taken to hospital. In between the chase and the encounter, police also managed to announce a reward of Rs 25,000 on his head.Shamshad is accused of killing Priya, 32, a Ghaziabad resident he had “trapped” after impersonating Amit Gurgar. According to police, Priya, who ran a beauty parlour, was divorced and lived with her daughter in a rented house in Modinagar. She met Amit (Shamshad) on Facebook in 2015 and the two fell in love. In 2018, Priya told Chanchal Chaudhary -- her landlord’s daughter-- that she was moving in with Amit, who worked as a book binder in Meerut.Soon Priya found out that Amit had lied about his identity and his actual name was Shamshad. She also came to know that he was married. Their relationship soured, and ended with her murder and that of her daughter, 10. Shamshad also sold a flat Priya owned. The matter came to the fore due to her friend Chanchal, who consistently tried to find where Priya is. They last talked over phone on March 28. Chanchal is also the complainant in the case.Meerut police cracked the case on Wednesday when they exhumed the bodies of the mother-daughter duo after catching Shamshad. He was in police custody till early Thursday morning before he tried to flee.When asked how Shamshad escaped police custody, deputy superintendent of police (SP) Chakrapani Tripathi said, “While the accused was being taken to the site where the bodies are buried, he expressed desire to relieve himself on the way. And it was then he escaped as the area is full of forested regions and orchards.” He was shot two bullets, he added.Police have also booked his wife.Superintendent of police (SP) AN Singh said, “Now efforts are on to arrest his wife, who too has been found involved in the conspiracy. She has been booked under IPC section 120B (criminal conspiracy).”Meanwhile, inspector Bhupender Singh, posted at Partapur police station, has been removed and shifted to Police Lines. There is an allegation that Singh had tried to convince the complainant, Chanchal, to drop the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-accused-of-trapping-killing-mother-daughter-duo-caught-flees-again-caught-after-encounter/articleshow/77135572.cms||Sandeep Rai
July 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||PSI denied bail in graft case||Ahmedabad: A special anti-corruption court on Thursday denied bail to the woman police sub-inspector, Shweta Jadeja, who has been arrested in an alleged graft case. The court refused bail after the investigating officer told the court that she is “an expert in corruption”. Jadeja had sought bail saying that she is a reputed person in her native village and her incarceration would damage her reputation. It was argued on her behalf that the charges of corruption are unsubstantiated and that this is a ploy to disrupt the probe against the accused person, who has leveled these charges against the police officer. In a rebuttal, public prosecutor Sudhir Brahmbhatt informed the court that the preliminary probe has revealed that there were three transactions that had taken place and the accused PSI had also purchased a mobile phone, for which complainant Kenil Shah’s security in-charge had paid from his credit card. The prosecutor pointed out to the affidavit filed by the special operations group (SOG) officer saying that Jadeja is an expert in corruption. Her release would adversely impact the investigation and send a wrong signal to the society at large.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/psi-denied-bail-in-graft-case/articleshow/77136344.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Cyber stalker arrested for blackmail in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A 26-year-old stalker who was allegedly blackmailing women, whom he befriended on social media, was arrested from Adoni in Andhra Pradesh. He reportedly posed as a girl, extracted their photos and phone numbers and later blackmailed them. Hyderabad cyber crime police arrested Mohammed Ahmed, 26, a private employee from Adoni in Kurnool district of Andhra Pradesh. Recently, the cyber crime police received a complaint from a woman stating that she had been receiving WhatsApp calls from two unknown phone numbers for the past two months. “The accused was asking the complainant for money, saying he obtained her private photographs from Instagram and the same will be deleted only after she pays him Rs 10,000. The accused also put up the complainant’s photo as his WhatsApp display picture,” assistant commissioner of police (ACP), cyber crime, KVM Prasad said. Police registered a case and arrested the accused from Adoni. Police seized two cell phones from his possession. Seven cases were registered at different police stations in the city for harassing women online this year so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cyber-stalker-arrested-for-blackmail/articleshow/77136334.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Meerut||Bhim Army chief, 500 others booked for lockdown violation||Meerut: Police in Saharanpur district have registered an FIR under sections of lockdown violation and Epidemic Diseases Act against Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad, national president Vinay Ratan and 500 others.The FIR comes following a public gathering at a residential colony on Delhi Road within limits of Sadar Bazar police station to commemorate the foundation day of the "Bhim Army Bharat ekta mission" on Tuesday."There was a function for the inauguration of a party office two days ago. We were in touch with the party office bearers and had warned them in advance that holding functions and inviting a large number of people will be a violation of lockdown norms. A day before the function we held talks with the party leaders, served them notice but they continued with their scheduled programme," Vineet Bhatnagar, Saharanpur SP (city) said on Thursday.According to sources, a large number of people were present at the function on Tuesday which was attended by Chandrashekhar and other senior office bearers of Bhim Army. Heavy police force and a PAC platoon were deployed at the spot."Lockdown norms were flouted. Videography of the entire function was done. Some people have been identified and the remaining will be traced based on their vehicle registration numbers. An FIR against 22-25 named and 500 unnamed people has been registered," SP (city) Bhatnagar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bhim-army-chief-500-others-booked-for-lockdown-violation/articleshow/77135605.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Kandivli society gives Rs 6 lakh ration to daily wagers||MUMBAI: Amid the Covid-19 shutdown, residents of a housing society in Kandivli (E) cast their gaze beyond confines of their privileged neighbourhood towards weather-beaten hamlets of Janupada and Lakshmi Nagar that border their locality. The 900 residents of Neptune Society, a cluster of eight-storey buildings at Thakur Village, pooled resources to provide dry ration to daily wagers who were stranded without work and food at the start of lockdown. Society chairman Rahul Tangri and secretary Nitin Mathuria took the initiative. Mathuria said, “Shortly after the nationwide lockdown began on March 25, we wondered how residents of padas (hamlets) nearby were getting on. We formed a WhatsApp group of building residents and discussed the possibility of helping out where possible.” Some rounds of brainstorming later they decided to distribute 750 relief packages of ration weighing 12kg each to the inhabitants. “Each package, costing Rs633, included rice, wheat, tea, oil and masala. Some families sponsored 15 packets, others two, each was free to give as they liked,” Mathuria said. The cost with overheads touched Rs 6 lakh. The distribution drive took place over three days from April 1. Samta Nagar police station and the local corporator proved to be of immense help. In fact, police went into the hamlets, identified families who were most needy, and handed over the ration. Sub-inspector Abhijeet Ingale of Samta Nagar station, who handled liaisoning and distribution, said, “As lockdown started, we heard from many slum-dwellers that they were being pushed to the brink of starvation. We approached office-bearers of Neptune whom we know and asked if they would help. They agreed selflessly and without hesitation. Many individuals, NGOs and societies had helped the shanty dwellers during lockdown, but this society’s contribution was large.” “We identified daily wagers and construction labourers who were out of work, had no bank balance and had finished meagre savings at home within days. At that time, government aid was yet to arrive and train services had stopped, so they could not go to their villages. Now, things are better, but they remember that timely gift and utter dua’as (blessings) for Neptune when they pass by!” Neptune chairman Rahul Tangri also provided sanitizers and masks to Samta Nagar police. Neptune excluded its maidservants, car-washers, dhobis and other service personnel from this largesse but ensured their wages although they could not come to work. It also arranged for vegetable and fruit vendors, grocers and breadwallahs to deliver items at the main gate with social distancing and masks. A mobile ATM made the rounds too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kandivli-soc-gives-rs6l-ration-to-daily-wagers/articleshow/77135974.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara records 102 cases in single day||Kolhapur: Satara district has reported 102 new Covid-19 cases since Wednesday night, including a large number of cases found in Bhuinj and Dharmpuri in Wai tehsil, Raygaon in Jawli tehsil, Kanher in Satara tehsil, and Karad tehsil, taking the total number of patients to 2,760. Three deaths due to Covid-19 were recorded since Wednesday night, taking the total casualties to 98 so far. There are 1,124 active cases. Karad tehsil recorded 30 Covid cases on a single day. According to the official data released by the administration, Karad town has six new patients from Raviwar Peth and Sharda clinic among others. Four people tested Covid positive in Malkapur. Covid cases found in Satara tehsil includes four from Satara town, 11 from Kanher and four from Gojegaon among others. The fresh cases in Kanher village include five men, five women and a one-year-old baby girl. As many as 11 people in Jawli tehsil tested positive, of which nine are from Raygaon village. Medha village recorded two more patients including an 11-year-old boy. Saygaon and Morghar also reported one Covid case each. Wai tehsil reported 13 new Covid patients, which mainly include seven from Dharmpuri village. The other cases were reported from Patan, Mahabaleshwar, Phaltan, Khandala, Koregaon, and Khatav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-records-102-cases-in-single-day/articleshow/77136347.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Regardless of task, student volunteers pitch in||BENGALURU: Keerthana R, a BSc life sciences student at Oxford College for Science, is in the midst of her vacation. But she’s not spending time at home like many of her peers. The girl travels to Victoria Hospital every day, where she volunteers as a data-entry operator in the microbiology lab. “My mother is a data-entry operator in the physiology lab of Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI). She used to come home and tell me how hospitals need more hands and I decided to volunteer. I work from 9.30am to 4.30pm and get a weekly off on one of the weekdays,” said Keerthana, who’s been at it for over a month now. Ask Keerthana whether she’s not worried about contracting the virus, and she says, “As a science student, I should not be scared. It’s a virus and a viral fever. I take sufficient precautions. If we can’t help society in such difficult times, when else will we?” Keerthana is not the only undergraduate student doing her bit on the field. After the higher education department asked NSS and NCC volunteers to sign up for Covid antigen rapid test processes, students of at least two affiliate colleges of Bangalore University have responded positively. The work involves swab collection, tele-counselling and on-site counselling (full-time or part-time). Students of NMKRV College for Women are currently being trained in the various tasks. Many of them attended a one-day training during a door-to-door survey in containment zones and their neighbourhood. “To begin with, we were trained in a door-to-door survey in our own locality, along with a doctor and nurse. We are awaiting further instructions from BBMP on the training and waiting for our exams to finish by then. I am proud to be an NSS volunteer and to serve society in these circumstances,” said Preethi N Gowda, a final-year BCom student at NMKRV. Many students who have signed up for Covid-related work are facing severe opposition from their families. “My parents are not happy with my decision. But I love social work. I realise that staffers are finding it difficult to manage,” said Triveni D, daughter of an autorickshaw driver and garment factory worker and a second-year BCom student of NMKRV. There are others who volunteer by themselves. Karthik KN, an NCC cadet and a first-year BCom student of Oxford College, said: “I have been helping in arranging beds and keeping track of patients and their well-being. My parents are unhappy, but I want to help and can’t do so by staying at home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/from-swab-collection-to-data-entry-student-volunteers-pitch-in/articleshow/77135629.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
July 24, 2020||Hyderabad||On KTR’s birthday, tweeple #giftasmile to underprivileged||HYDERABAD: The hashtag ‘Gift a Smile’ has been trending on Twitter on the eve of IT and industries minister KT Rama Rao’s birthday. Fans, well-wishers, TRS party leaders and supporters have been spreading smiles to help the needy. As KTR’s birthday is on July 24, the minister urged his supporters to not splurge money on hoardings and bouquets to wish him and appealed to them to spend money for good causes. MLC Naveen Rao wrote on Twitter that he helped a foundation that serves people with special needs. Rao said he sponsored Shankar Foundation, which serves people with special needs, to take up the pending renovation works of the institution. “I request everyone to help someone in need and gift a smile,” he said. Deputy mayor Baba Fasiuddin tweeted: “As part of #GiftASmile campaign on the occasion of birthday of KTR, he had donated hand operated sprayers in the masjids of Hyderabad and also offered chadar.” (sic) Senior TRS leader Karnati Vidyasagar tweeted a picture and said that as part of #GiftASmile, he provided an electric wheelchair to @NAINISAI92 Sandeep. TRS leader Jagan Patimeedi sponsored education for a student who had lost a leg in an accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/on-ktrs-birthday-tweeple-giftasmile-to-underprivileged/articleshow/77136348.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: Covid, monsoon, low customer footfall affect farmer attendance at rythu bazaars||VISAKHAPATNAM: Lack of customers, temporary stalls not strong enough to withstand the monsoon showers and shopkeepers suffering from Covid-19 have led to a decline in the number of farmers setting up shops at the rythu bazaars in the city. Estate officials at the markets told TOI, recently three farmers of the rythu bazaars had tested positive. Their family members are now reluctant to come to the markets as they suspect that their kin contracted the infection at the market as there are no other Covid-19 case in their native villages. In fact, a farmer, who runs a stall at Pedda Waltair Rythu Bazaar, claimed, a few of them are compelled to stay in the city at rented accomodation after these farmers tested positive. “The number of farmers at these rythu bazaars is dwindling almost every day. Now, only 75% to 80% of the total number of farmers allotted space at each rythu bazaar are operating their business. It would decrease further with time. At the Pedda Waltair Rythu Bazaar, for example, only 32 farmers set shop on Thursday, although 50 farmers have been allotted space at the market,” Jagadeshwar Rao, the estate officer of Pedda Waltair Rythu Baazar told TOI. Officials from the agricultural marketing department said these problems are temporary and they are confident that all they would be resolved soon. “In the entire state you won’t get vegetables at a lower price than these rythu bazaars. Customers will start coming soon,” a senior official argued. Farmers stated that the problem started following the government’s decision to shift the rythu bazaars to a nearby open field, which is much bigger in size, soon after the lockdown was imposed. They claim that regular customers are not interested in travelling too far to buy their groceries. “Added to this, monsoon has set in. It is difficult to operate business from these makeshift stalls. We have sought government help to make these structures stronger. However, no help has reached us yet,” said P Raju, a farmer. Officials claimed that they are working on a viable and economical idea to “take care” of this particular issue. “However, the way positive cases are increasing in the district we don’t see any chance of shifting these markets to their original places. We need to implement changes at these make-shift stalls,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/covid-monsoon-low-customer-footfall-affect-farmer-attendance-at-rythu-bazaars/articleshow/77135595.cms||Arpit Basu
July 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Ex-Air India employee jumps to death from hospital||HYDERABAD: A 75-year-old former employee of Air India jumped to death reportedly due to fear of Covid-19, from a hospital in Srinagar Colony at Banjara Hills on Thursday. Banjara Hills police said that the man, a resident of Punjagutta, was admitted to the hospital as he had complained of breathing trouble a few days ago, following which his family members took him to the hospital for a check-up. “The man was tested for Covid-19 a few days ago, but the result came back negative. However, his breathing problem and other health issues continued and he was undergoing treatment,” said Banjara Hills inspector Kalinga Rao. The inspector said that around 9 am, the patient jumped from the third floor of the hospital and committed suicide. A case was registered under Section 174 (suspicious death) of CrPc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ex-air-india-employee-jumps-to-death-from-hospital/articleshow/77136361.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Shiv Sena corporator held over Solapur businessman’s suicide||KOLHAPUR: Solapur police arrested Shiv Sena corporator Laxman Yallapa Jadhav and his accomplice, Dashrath Madhukar Kasbe, on Wednesday night in connection with the suicide of Solapur restaurant-cum-bar owner Amol Jagtap. Police have arrested five persons in the case so far. The local crime branch had come to know about Jadhav’s involvement in the case. Jadhav too had sensed possible police action and had planned to flee to Vijapur in neighbouring Karnataka. Police laid a trap near his house on Wednesday but Jadhav managed to give them the slip. However, the police chased and caught him near Dhulkhed village in Karnataka. They also seized his motorcycle. Police brought Jadhav to Solapur after completing legal procedures in Vijapur. Kasbe was later arrested in Solapur. Preliminary investigations have revealed that Jadhav had given a huge loan to Jagtap. His involvement in the case was learnt on the basis of call records and a few documents recovered by the police. Earlier, police had arrested three others — Vyankatesh Dambangiri, Siddhu Birajdar and Dineshkumar Birajdar in the case. Dambangiri and the Birajdars had loaned Rs 70 lakh and Rs 15 lakh respectively to Jagtap. Investigations revealed that Jagtap’s 3.5-acre land in Mohol tehsil was forcibly transferred in Dineshkumar Birajdar’s name while the ownership of his restaurant was transferred in Dambangiri’s name. Jagtap’s brother Rahul had lodged a police complaint in this regard. On July 13, Jagtap had hanged himself after killing his wife Mayuri and their two sons, Ayush and Aditya, at his rented bungalow on the Pune-Solapur road. The children were found hanging while the wife’s body was found lying in the bedroom. Police had recovered a suicide note. Jagtap’s restaurant was shut for the past three months due to the lockdown and he was unable to return the loan or even the interest amount. Police said he was threatened and harassed over this. (With inputs from Suryakant Asbe)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sena-corporator-held-over-solapur-bizmans-suicide/articleshow/77136358.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Maoists still lurking in Telangana districts, say police||HYDERABAD: A week after the exchange of fire with Maoists in Komaram Bheem-Asifabad and Bhadradri-Kothagudem of Telangana, police claim to have credible information about their presence in the districts. This is against their modus operandi of escaping into the neighbouring states after an encounter or an operation. Meanwhile, police are keen to foil the bandh call given by the Maoists, demanding the release of Revolutionary Writers Association (RWA) member Varavara Rao and others. The bandh is scheduled for Saturday. Sources in Telangana police told TOI that Maoists are making efforts to revive their activities in Manuguru area in Kothagudem. With a number of developmental works taking place in this area, they are planning to extort money from contractors and businessmen. In Asifabad district, police came to know that CPI Maoist state committee member Bhaskar and four others entered the state at least twice before authorities got wind of their movements. Initially, the naxals disguised themselves when they visited a few tribal areas. “It’s a desperate attempt by the Maoists to get ammunition and cash. During the latest arson in Charla mandal on Tuesday, the residents of a tribal hamlet were asked to come out and two vehicles of a road contractor were set on fire. About 8-10 armed Maoists participated in the incident, creating panic among the local tribals,’’ a senior police officer said. A couple of days back, Maoists left pamphlets demanding the release of Varavara Rao, Delhi University professor Sai Baba and 12 others who were arrested by NIA and other security agencies. They also demanded the release of all political prisoners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/maoists-still-lurking-in-dists-say-police/articleshow/77136362.cms||Srinath Vudali
July 24, 2020||Lucknow||2,529 new cases push Uttar Pradesh Covid tally to 58,117||LUCKNOW: In a first, Uttar Pradesh recorded over 2.5k new Covid cases in a single day, taking the state’s tally to 58,117 on Thursday. “As many as 2,529 new cases were reported in 24 hours. With this, the number of active infections in the state reached 21,003,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad. Health officials stated that the number of active infections in the state have increased by over 200% since June 30. The micro-picture reveals that nearly 38% of the active infections in the state belong to just five districts, including Lucknow, Kanpur, Jhansi, Ghaziabad and Varanasi. While Lucknow (3196) accounts for the maximum number of active infections, Sravasti (14) has the lowest number. Nationally, UP has the fifth largest number of active cases. States ahead of UP are Maharashtra (1.40 lakh), Tamil Nadu (52,939), Karnataka (49,928) and Andhra Pradesh (34,555). Officials attribute the surge in UP to improved testing. “Over 54,000 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours, while the total number of tests so far is 16.54 lakh. The government is further intensifying testing to ensure that fewer lives are lost, while positive cases are segregated from the population in early stages,” Prasad said. Experts predict that the numbers are expected to grow rapidly in the days to come with provisions like home isolation for asymptomatic patients and walk in testing facilities. In terms of new cases, Lucknow topped the list with 307 entries. The new cases made state capital into the first district with 5,000 plus cases. It is also home to the maximum number of active cases – 3,196. Jhansi followed with 185 cases most of whom were inmates of the district jail. Kanpur ranked third with 182 cases. The spate of deaths continued in Kanpur where ten persons succumbed to the pandemic infection, taking the district’s toll to 152. Gorakhpur followed with four deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/2529-new-cases-push-up-covid-tally-to-58117/articleshow/77136917.cms||Shailvee Sharda
July 24, 2020||Mumbai||Five transferred but senior babus still await new postings||MUMBAI: As more than a dozen high-ranking officials are awaiting new assignments for one to seven months, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday transferred five junior bureaucrats. Maharashtra State Cooperative Marketing Federation chief Yogesh Mhase will be CEO of Mhada (Mumbai), CS’ secretary Kiran Patil will be CEO of Raigad zilla parishad, Shirdi temple trust chief officer A K Dongre will lead Mumbai Repair Board, special sales tax commissioner Parimal Singh will be commissioner (family welfare) in place of Anup Kumar Yadav. Significantly, no replacements were named for Mhase, Kiran Patil and Dongre. Additional chief secretary Rajeev Goyal leads the list of senior bureaucrats who are waiting for new assignments. Goyal, who was GST commissioner, was relieved in January. Bhushan Gagrani and Shyam Tagde too have no assignments. More than a dozen senior bureaucrats, including municipal commissioner I S Chahal, Sitaram Kunte, Manoj Saunik, Sanjay Chahande are holding additional charge of key departments. Protocol secretary Manisha Mhaiskar, who was shifted few days back to environment department, holds additional charge of her earlier department. “Maharashtra is facing such a situation for the first time, probably due to disputes within Maha Vikas Aghadi. Keeping senior officers waiting for prolonged periods amounts to humiliation and results in frustration. CM must take out time from political activities and make administrative changes on top priority,’’ a senior bureaucrat told TOI. Meanwhile, general administration department on Thursday issued a circular to provide for extension for routine transfers from July 31 to August 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/5-transferred-but-senior-babus-still-await-new-postings/articleshow/77135977.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Kolhapur||Two held for abducting 8-year-old||Kolhapur: Laxmipuri police in Kolhapur have arrested two teenagers in connection with the abduction of an 8-year-old boy and are looking for two minor boys who are believed to be the mastermind of the crime. The arrested have been identified as Samarjit Gorakshanath Ghorpade (19) and Akshay Balwant Chougule (19), both residents of Bachni village. Their interrogation revealed the involvement of two more youth, who are absconding. The 8-year-old boy was allegedly abducted from Laxmiteerth area on Tuesday evening, said the police. Chougule and Ghorpade had got all the information about the boy’s family from their relatives, who also reside in Laxmiteerth area on Tuesday evening. The boy’s father is a hotelier. According to the police, when the boy was playing outside his house on Tuesday evening, Ghorpade and Chougule went up to the boy and promised to give him chocolate if he came with them on motorcycle. Following which the duo took him to Bondre Nagar area and forced him to sit in an autorickshaw. The duo called the boy’s father on his cellphone and demanded a ransom of Rs 5 lakh. However, when they noticed the boy’s father in Bondre Nagar area, they thought the family has traced them so they got scared and dropped the boy near his house. The family approached the police after which the duo was arrested on the basis of the description of them given by the boy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/two-held-for-abducting-8-year-old/articleshow/77136356.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Man held for abusing cops on Youtube||HYDERABAD: Keesara police on Thursday arrested a 32-year-old unemployed youth for using filthy language to abuse cops in an interview on a Youtube channel. Police alleged that the accused has been posing as a film industry worker and a CBI official. Based on a complaint lodged by Keesara constable Kumara Swamy, a case was registered against R Sunisith on July 17. “During the investigation we found that Sunisith, a native of Jangaon, has finished MTech and worked as a faculty member in two engineering colleges in the city. In 2014, he misbehaved with a girl student and was sent to judicial remand. Subsequently, based on a complaint by an engineering college management, another case was registered against him ,” Keesara inspector J Narendar Goud said. “After he was released from jail in 2018, Sunisith enrolled in a course at a film institute. By posing as a director and scriptwriter, he started giving interviews to Youtube channels and defaming film actors to gain popularity. Sunisith also posed as a CBI investigator to dupe people,” the inspector added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-held-for-abusing-cops-on-youtube/articleshow/77136357.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Agra||Class XII girl from Delhi school among 3 held with 20 kg of cannabis||AGRA: A Class XII student of a Delhi school and a 21-year-old woman were among three caught by Agra GRP on Thursday with 20 kg of cannabis which they were allegedly smuggling from Visakhapatnam. The three were trying to board a taxi for Delhi at Agra railway station. According to police, the student, who lives away from her parents, was paid Rs 5,000 to smuggle the contraband to Delhi. “It was her first time, the minor told us. While the other two accused had been working as a courier for some time,” Vijay Singh, the Agra Cantt SHO, said. One of the accused has been identified as Imran, 23, who is a tailor in Kailashpuri area, but originally belongs to Hooghly, West Bengal. The second accused is Seema, who is a school dropout. She is the minor's friend. “Seema and Imran claimed, during interrogation, that they don’t know each other, but had a mutual contact, identified as Rahul, who lives in Delhi. For every successful delivery of the cannabis consignment from Rajahmundry via Visakhapatnam to the national capital, the individual was paid Rs 5,000 to Rs 15,000. The minor - a Class XII student - lives separately from her parents and was in need of money,” a GRP investigation officer said. As part of the drug cartel courier's modus operandi, they travelled to Visakhapatnam via flight or a premium train and returned with contraband in sleeper coaches of some Delhi-bound express train. Earlier, the gang used to travel in Rajdhani Express with cannabis, but frequent police raids forced the gang to change their operative ways. “Now, they alight at Agra Cantt or Mathura and opt for taxi service for the national capital via Aligarh and Ghaziabad or via Yamuna expressway,” the SHO added. The gang members, who reportedly do not have any knowledge of the "kingpin", were only in contact with one Rahul in Delhi and one Shaheed in Rajahmundry. All three have been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The minor will now be sent to a Ghaziabad-based juvenile rehabilitation centre, while the two others will be sent to Agra district jail. According to the Agra Cantt GRP, since February 2019, a total of 519 kg of cannabis worth Rs 51.9 lakh have been seized from 35 men, five women and one minor. Earlier on February 26, 2020, the Agra Cantt GRP seized 20 kg of ganja worth Rs 1.6 lakh from three, including a 27-year-old woman. On October 19, 2019, five men were arrested for smuggling 62.5 kg of cannabis from Visakhapatnam via train. On June 9, 2015, the GRP seized 100 kg of marijuana. Three days later, three men, including two college students, were arrested in Delhi's Rajghat area for smuggling marijuana - again using the railways network.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/class-xii-girl-from-delhi-school-among-3-held-with-20-kg-of-cannabis/articleshow/77134508.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Hyderabad||SCB vice-president wants Rajnath to rein in military||SECUNDERABAD: A complaint has been lodged with Union defence minister Rajnath Singh against the local military authority (LMA) for closing civilian roads in Secunderabad. With the military officials not responding positively, J Ramakrishna, vice-president, Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB), knocked on the doors of the Ministry of Defence (MoD). On Thursday, he sent representations to Rajnath Singh and top brass of MoD, including Director General Defence Estates (DGDE) and defence secretary, and chief executive officer of the SCB. In his representation, Ramakrishna strongly criticised the LMA. “LMA is violating the MoD orders. The LMA decision is arbitrary, unilateral and unlawful,” he said.  “Many RWAs of Malkajgiri, Safilguda and Yapral are agitated about the closure of roads,” he said in his representation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-vice-president-wants-rajnath-to-rein-in-military/articleshow/77136363.cms||Sunil Mungara
July 24, 2020||Amaravati||Short-staffed UHCs pass burden to GGHs||AMARAVATI: With resources stretched thin and hospitals overburdened in the virus surge, experts have pointed out that urban health centres (UHCs) have failed to play a proactive role in supporting Covid care centres and district hospitals. And strengthening of UHCs is an urgent need to tackle the rising number of Covid-19 cases. The failure of the district administrations to make use of UHCs as first point of screening for Covid-19 suspects has only increased the burden on district and general hospitals. Although the district collectors have designated one or two UHCs as Covid-19 screening centres, the tests are not being conducted regularly due to the absence of doctors. Added to this a majority of these centres are being manned by retired medical professionals, who themselves are in the vulnerable category. “The district collectors should have deployed young doctors and PGs on rotation basis at UHCs to continuously screen suspects. We have failed to utilise the services of the UHCs to the fullest extent,” said YSRC legislator K Rosaiah. According to official sources, each UHC is unable to handle more than 100 patients per day coming with different health complaints in the last 20 days while there is jostling at Government General Hospitals (GGHs); even doctors at the rural Primary Health Centres (PHCs) are referring almost all the cases to the GGH for fear of contracting Covid-19, resulting in the GGHs being overburdened. At the GGHs, authorities are unable to extend all the services due to several factors, including a dearth of doctors. This is because while 10%-15% senior doctors above the age of 55 have been exempted from emergency duties, about five to 10 doctors have either already contracted Covid-19 or have self-quarantined themselves after they were identified as primary contacts. The authorities have divided the remaining resources into two groups and deputed one group to Covid-19 duties and remaining on non-Covid duties. “Screening for Covid-19 has become a mandatory before providing treatment to patients in the OP wing. It is taking a toll on both the commoners as well as professionals,” said a senior professor at Guntur Medical College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/short-staffed-uhcs-pass-burden-to-gghs/articleshow/77135637.cms||Samdani MN
July 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Now, two ‘She teams’ at every police station in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Ahmedabad police commissioner Ashish Bhatia has doubled the number of ‘She teams’ at every police station in the city. Earlier, each police station had one She team with one vehicle for it. A notification issued on July 21 said there will now be two such teams and two vehicles for them at each police station. The first tasked assigned to the new She teams is to counsel women bootleggers and help them get loans to start legal businesses to make a living, Bhatia said. As the number of teams have been raised, She teams have been given extra charters too. “Under the Nirbhaya Project, we got one extra vehicle for each police station which has been allotted to the She team. Earlier, there were three to four policemen in a She team but now those numbers have been brought down to two or three, while there will be four to six policewomen,” Bhatia added. He said, the She teams have been given the extra responsibility of counselling women and bringing down the numbers of cases involving aborted fetuses being found. “They will go to hospitals and counsel pregnant women. They will also help identify those who dump aborted fetuses or abandon newborn babies,” Bhatia said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/now-two-she-teams-at-every-police-station/articleshow/77136425.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
July 24, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Cops rescue kidnapped boy from Vizianagaram||VISAKHAPATNAM: Police on Thursday rescued a two-year-old baby who was kidnapped on July 21 from Vizag. The police rescued the child from kidnappers at Phool Bagh Colony in Vizianagaram town. The accused kidnappers have been identified as Patan Salman Khan (19), Shaik Subhani (19) and Bandaru Roshan Raju (20). All the accused are residents of Phool Bagh Colony, the police said. Police said that one of the accused, Roshan Raju, wanted to give away the child to his aunt who his childless. The trio had come to Vizag on July 21 and were having food on the roadside. Soon they noticed the two-year-old sleeping with his parents, who are beggars, on the street. As soon as the family of three fell asleep, the accused kidnapped the baby and took him to Vizianagram. The baby’s father, Srinu, lodged a police complaint. The police were able to identify the vehicle number of the auto-rickshaw the kidnappers had travelled in through CCTV footage and managed to rescue the baby.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cops-rescue-kidnapped-boy-from-vzm/articleshow/77135652.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Rs 1,000 for information on barbers violating lockdown||HYDERABAD: To enforce a strict lockdown, the barbers’ association in Metpally in Jagtial district has announced a reward of Rs 1,000 to anyone who provides information and evidence of violation if a barber opens a shop or goes to anyone’s house to give a haircut. The barber will also be imposed a fine of Rs 2,500. Measures like these are being taken at many places in the districts in view of the rising cases of Covid-19. The Nayee Brahmin Seva Sangham imposed the lockdown from July 22 to August 4. The shops are being permitted to open only from 6 am to 2 pm. Elsewhere in the state, a voluntary lockdown has been announced up to August 10. In Rudrangi of Rajanna Sircilla district, the local panchayat has decided to close shops till August 10. A voluntary lockdown began on July 22 and will continue up to August 4 in Kothapally town in Karimnagar. In some places, decisions are being taken by trade bodies on voluntary lockdown. Hotels’ association honorary president K Someshwar and president Ch Vasudev announced a bandh in Gudur village of Palakurthy mandal in Jangaon district up to July 26. This is in view of a Covid death in the village and three positive cases being reported so far. In another decision, local traders have decided to shut all shops up to August 5, as announced by Arya Vysya Sangham president P Srinivas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-1k-for-info-on-barbers-violating-lockdown/articleshow/77136364.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 24, 2020||Nagpur||4 big quarantine centres now CCC, NMC begins shifting asymptomatic patients here||Nagpur: A day after the highest single day spike of 222 cases, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Saturday decided to revise its policy of institutional quarantine within 24 hours of cutting down the isolation period by half and started the process to shift asymptomatic postive patients to four big quarantine centres. These centres would now function as Covid care centres (CCCs) in addition to MLA hostel and Shalinitai Meghe Medical College (SMMC). By Saturday evening, NMC freed up 390 beds at VNIT boys hostel. Around 35 asymptomatic patients were shifted from GMCH at the VNIT girls hostel offering 110 beds which are exclusive CCC. After sanitization, the boys hostel too would hosts asymptomatic patients. Pachpaoli police quarters, having around 650 beds, automatically converted into CCC with 49 positive patients not able to get admission in any of the three government hosptials. The 49 suspects had tested positive a day ago but couldn’t be shifted to a hospital due to shortage of beds. The centre has already discharged 562 suspects in whose places asymptomatic patients would come. As per officials, some suspects were also allowed to go in their personal cars. The suspects would now observe a compulsory 14-day home isolation. NMC has formed a rapid response team led by zonal medical officers under each of the 10 zones to montoir the high risk suspects in home isolation. An ambulance each would be deployed at all 10 zones in case the high risk suspects need special care. Besides the two centres, Symbiosis hostel and Vanamati too would start Covid care centres (CCCs). Despite the increasing strain on its facilities, the NMC had been continuing with 14-day institutional quarantine policy for all Covid suspects. On Friday, the civic body decided to bring this down to 7 days. Confirming the development, an NMC official told TOI that soon after the first test, all those testing negative will be sent in home isolation of 14 days. “All dedicated Covid hospital beds will be reserved only for positive patients with symptoms who are in a critical state,” the official said, adding that those testing positive will be sent to hospital for screening. After screening, the patient would have to be clinically assigned asymptomatic and fit for CCC admission. “Those showing sypmtoms and having co-morbitities, will be kept under specialized medical care,” a health offical said. The move is likely to instantly make 250 beds available at all three government hospitals — AIIMS, GMCH and IGGMCH — where all 1,200 beds are full right now. Health officials were unhappy over the NMC decision to admit all types of Covid patients despite them putting a strain on resources. On Thursday, TOI had highlighted how Nagpur was running out of beds because of asymptomatic patients occupying them for over 10 days. The addition of four new CCCs would add around 2,000 beds within the city for asymptomatic patients. MLA hostel and Shalinitai Meghe Medical College are already functional. Over 2000 suspects were occupying the quarantine centres in the city. Amid rising cases, the wait time for new patients had increased and hospitals were increasingly finding it difficult to accommodate them. Some also complained of alleged 'poor facilities' at government hospitals. Pune, Mumbai and some more cities have already started treating asymptomatic Covid patients at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/4-big-quarantine-centres-now-ccc-nmc-begins-shifting-asymptomatic-patients-here/articleshow/77167531.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 24, 2020||Agra||Agra firm buys over 12 lakh ‘expired’ pan masala sachets seized from Ghaziabad manufacturer, concerns raised over circulation of expired consumable product||Agra: An Agra-based firm recently bought over 12 lakh “expired” sachets of pan masala for just Rs 1.82 crore — the actual price of which being around Rs 7.5 crore — in an auction conducted by the commercial tax department in Aligarh, raising fears of circulation of the expired consumable product in the market. Taking serious cognisance of the matter Agra food safety and drug department assistant commissioner Ajay Jaiswal said they would “launch a probe into the matter”. The expired pan masala pouches are of two different brands — Kamla Pasand and Rajshree — which were seized by the department after a raid at a Ghaziabad-based firm Kay Pan Fragrance Pvt Ltd in July last year. The cost of pouches varies — Rs 4, Rs 8 and Rs 18 — depending on their weight. Aligarh additional commissioner (Grade II), commercial tax department, HP Rao Dixit told TOI that an Agra-based firm Matangi Jewels Pvt Ltd made the highest bid at Rs 1.82 crore and the product would be delivered to them. Dixit, however, admitted that the instruction given on pan masala pouches reads as — “best before six months,” while claiming that they “are not concerned with it because it’s the food safety and drug department’s job to check the sale of such products”.Notably, the seized pan masala was found to be “substandard” by a sample testing conducted by the food and drug department, Ghaziabad.Confirming the substandard quality of the pan masala, an officer concerned with the Ghaziabad food safety and drug department, Vineet Kumar, told TOI that though the “samples were found to be substandard, they were fit for human consumption. However, a case was lodged in this connection and the court would fix a penalty, which could be up to Rs 5 lakh as per law.”Kumar, however, made a point that “after the expiry, products are obviously not fit for human consumption, and thus, can’t be sold”. He, at the same time, admitted that “going by the norms, it’s the food safety and drug department’s responsibility to check sale of such products”.“We have written to the commercial tax department to provide all details about the case. We will probe the matter, and based on which action will be taken,” Jaiswal told TOI. When contacted, Sanjay Gupta, who was authorised by Matangi Jewels Pvt Ltd to handle the bidding, told TOI that his firm mainly deals in jewellery. Asked what they would do with the huge quantity of pan masala, Gupta said, “We will sell the main ingredient supari (areca nut) of the pan masala after washing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-firm-buys-over-12-lakh-expired-pan-masala-sachets-seized-from-ghaziabad-manufacturer-concerns-raised-over-circulation-of-expired-consumable-product/articleshow/77134500.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
July 24, 2020||Meerut||UP: Wife, girl, their lovers held for man's murder||MEERUT: With the arrest of five people, including two women, Bulandshahr police claims to have solved the murder of a man whose body was found abandoned in a forested area in the district's Pahasu area on July 9. Police alleged that the deceased man's wife, minor daughter and their respective lovers planned the murder after he began objecting to their illicit relationship. They were helped by another man. On July 9, the victim, in his 40s, left home for a wine shop to consume liquor. When he did not "return" by July 11, his family lodged a missing complaint with the local police. On the same day, a cattle herder alerted police about a body lying in a desolate spot and a motorcycle parked nearby. Police identified the deceased. Santosh Kumar, Bulandshahr senior superintendent of police, claimed, "The man's daughter alerted her lover, Hemant, soon after her father left home. Hemant was joined by Golu, paramour of the victim's wife. The duo waylaid the drunk man on his way home, hit him with a lathi and later, shot him dead."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/wife-girl-their-lovers-held-for-mans-murder/articleshow/77135642.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Pune||Pune police infected tally goes up to 314||Pune: As many as 50 Pune police personnel tested Covid-19 positive from July 19 to 22, taking the total case count of the force to 314 so far. A total of 113 Pune police personnel contracted the virus this month alone. The combined Covid-19 case count of the Pune and the Pimpri Chinchwad police forces has gone up to 461 now. Pune’s additional commissioner of police (crime) Ashok Morale said, “The case surge has much to do with aggressive collection of swab samples of police personnel for early detection and remedial steps. Most of the infected police personnel are asymptomatic. The focus remains on testing police personnel on duty in containment areas and at check-posts.” Morale said, “Out of the 314 cases reported, as many as 205 police personnel have recovered. There are 92 active cases now, while three have died.”He said, “The 50 policemen tested positive from July 19 to 22 are in the ranks of assistant commissioner of police and subordinate police personnel.” In the Pimpri Chinchwad police, 147 personnel have tested positive. 111 were discharged. Six active cases have been reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-police-infected-tally-goes-up-to-314/articleshow/77136372.cms||Asseem Shaikh
July 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Day before wedding, man tests +ve||Vijayawada: Just a day before his marriage, a man received the shock of his life when his swab sample, which he had given for Covid-19 tests, returned positive. The groom and all relatives attending the marriage have now been quarantined. The wedding has been postponed. The incident happened at Kothapet in East Godavari district on Thursday. District medical officials said the 27-year-old man had been preparing for his marriage for the past one month. He was scheduled to get married on Friday (July 24), to the love of his life from the same town, at a marriage hall in the town. Three days back, he had visited a primary health centre in the town and gave his swab sample for tests. The family was getting ready for the wedding day when they received a call from the medical authorities that the groom had tested positive. On Thursday, officials picked up the groom from the marriage hall and took him to a quarantine centre. They also informed his family members to observe home quarantine, and give their swab sample for tests. Recently, around 110 people tested positive in Chelluru village in East Godavari district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/day-before-wedding-man-tests-ve/articleshow/77136376.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
July 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Transgenders will get 10kg rice without ration card: Telangana government to HC||HYDERABAD: The state government on Thursday informed the high court it will extend the 10-kilo rice per month sop to transgender persons. “They can use this facility and avail rice from any fair price shops without any ration card,” advocate general BS Prasad said. He was addressing a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy, which was hearing a PIL filed by Vyjayanti Vasanta Mogli from Attapur in Hyderabad seeking support to the transgender persons. “We are utilising the central schemes and decided to issue 10 kilos of rice free of cost to these people. Some proof of identity like Aadhaar card or some document from some local authority or a doctor showing them as transgender persons will be enough,” the AG said. By showing such proof, they could avail this facility from the fair price shops, he added. When asked by the bench whether the state government has issued any GO to this effect, the AG replied that the commissioner of civil supplies issued a revised circular asking all the civil supplies officials, revenue officials and fair price shop dealers to help the transgenders avail the facility in a hassle-free manner. Petitioner’s counsel Jayna Kothari urged the bench not to close the PIL now because they want to study the implementation of the circular at ground-level and would furnish a report on how the authorities were complying with the circular. The bench also said the circular might not reach the dealers immediately, though there was an urgency during the pandemic period that rendered people helpless. The bench had in one of the earlier hearings directed the state to earmark separate isolation wards for transgender patients in upcoming new hospitals like TIMS that have huge space and facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/transgenders-will-get-10-kg-rice-without-ration-card-govt-to-hc/articleshow/77136365.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Mumbai||SCERT proposes 25% cut in school syllabus to ease e-education||PUNE: State Council of Education Research and Training on Wednesday sent a proposal to cut around 25% of the school syllabus to the state education ministry for final approval. SCERT director Dinkar Patil said once the state approves it, changes will be uploaded on its website. “We had set up a subject-wise committee to suggest modifications in syllabus due to a truncated academic year in the wake of Covid-19. Proper care has been taken not to exclude important topics in terms of common entrance tests (CET) and other such exams. Once the state approves the changes, instructions will be given to teachers to consider them,” Patil said. Patil had earlier said cutting down syllabus did not mean some topics will be omitted. Students will have to learn some parts themselves, while parts which have no links to the next standard can be cut. Repeated portions will be marked for self-learning. He had also called it a temporary measure only during Covid-19, and the syllabus will be normal from the next academic year. Other central educational boards such as Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) have already announced up to 30% syllabus cut. Even state boards like Uttar Pradesh education board have already announced cuts, while others will announce reductions in syllabi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/scert-proposes-25-cut-in-syllabus/articleshow/77135980.cms||Ardhra Nair
July 24, 2020||Agra||Congress workers get bail after 48 hours in jail||Agra: After 48 hours of being arrested and put behind the bars, seven Congress workers were granted bail by the court on Thursday. They were welcomed by party workers outside the temporary jail established at MD Jain Inter College. Earlier on Wednesday evening, Congress Agra district president was released from jail. Eight Congress members were arrested by police and sent to jail following court orders on Tuesday evening. They were booked by police under 14 different sections of the IPC including rioting and section 7 of the Criminal Law Amendment Act, 1932 after they locked the main gate of the private power distribution company during a protest demanding waiver of electricity bills for the lockdown period. UP Congress secretary Amit Singh said, “Congress workers were protesting for waiver of electricity bills for the period of lockdown. Many people are undergoing financial crisis and they would not able to pay the electricity bills. Congress workers were badly beaten by police even though they were protesting peacefully. Eight Congress workers were booked by police for a false case. We are not scared of the state government’s dictatorship. Issues concerning common people will be pursued with even more strengthnow.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/congress-workers-get-bail-after-48-hours-in-jail/articleshow/77134514.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Mangaluru||378 test positive on coast, 7 fatalities in DK||Mangaluru/Udupi: Covid-19 cases reduced a bit from the high of 443 on Wednesday in Dakshina Kannada (DK) and Udupi on Thursday. The districts recorded 378 fresh cases on Thursday, with Dakshina Kannada accounting for 218 cases and Udupi 160. Instances of Covid-19 related deaths continued in DK, with the district administration providing details of seven more deaths in the bulletin, all of whom were patients with comorbidities. Deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said out of the 218 cases, 110 were diagnosed with influenza like illness (ILI), and the source of how 57 patients got infected is being traced, the DC said, adding 36 are primary contacts and 16 were diagnosed with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). The fresh surge took the total active cases to 2,253, and the total number of positive cases breached the 4,000 mark to reach 4,214 cases, the DC said. The seven new Covid-19 related deaths included a 36-year-old man from Davanagere, 69-year-old man from Bhatkal, 52-year-old man from Palakkad, 83-year-old man from Mangaluru and 73-year-old man also from Mangaluru. The other victims were a 58-year-old woman from Mangaluru and a 52-year old man from Bhatkal, who were admitted for ailments as early as July 7, and succumbed to their co-morbidities on Wednesday, the DC said. Udupi that had recorded 281 cases on Wednesday, settled for 121 fewer cases. The discharge of 65 patients on the day meant that the active cases in the district was six short of the 1,000 mark, and the total discharges as on date stood at 1,841. The total positive cases recorded in Udupi is now 2,846 with 11 Covid-19 related deaths, deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha stated in the district bulletin. Results of 653 samples are pending, the DC added. In a related development, normal life returned to Dakshina Kannada and Udupi, with the lifting of the week-long lockdown at 5am on Thursday. Public transport including city and service buses and autorickshaws were back on the road, as were private vehicles. Markets, saloons, and other permitted commercial establishments also opened for business, and people went about their business with most people wearing masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/378-test-positive-on-coast-7-fatalities-in-dk/articleshow/77134565.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 24, 2020||Agra||Uttar Pradesh: Mathura administration revives 784 water bodies at a cost of Rs 6 crore||AGRA: To tackle water woes in rural households and improve quality of water in the semi-arid district, the Mathura, administration has rejuvenated 784 water bodies, including ponds of religious importance like the Kamal Kund and the Narad Kund. The project cost Rs 6.14 crore. Apart from benefiting villagers who had to walk long distances to fetch water, the rejuvenation of water bodies has led to improving recharging of groundwater. The efforts have brought significant results, as the water level in certain areas has risen by 60 cm and the total dissolved solids (TDS) levels have gone down by an average of 84 ppm, as per a study by Jal Nigam, Agra division. Talking with TOI, chief development officer (CDO) Nitin Gaur said, "Coupled with poor water quality due to industrial pollution from Delhi and the ever-increasing dependency on groundwater, the water table had depleted across the district. While three blocks were declared a 'over exploited', one block was found to be 'critical'. “We decided to take up the work and improve the situation. A strategy was finalised accordingly,” said Gaur, adding that no complex technology was adopted. He said where the ponds were close to the river, water channels were dug to fetch river water, while pumps were used at some places to fill up the ponds. Out of 2,015 ponds listed in the revenue records after Independence, 1,062 were identified and of these, 784 ponds have been dug out and filled with water. Officials said the remaining ponds are either under litigation due to “illegal encroachment” by villagers or require more funds and efforts for rejuvenation due to their physiography. About 20% are in this category. Gaur said water bodies play an important role in maintaining and restoring the ecological balance. They act as sources of drinking water, recharge groundwater and control floods. The project also provided livelihood opportunities to a large number of people under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Generation scheme. According to United Nations and Niti Ayog reports, in the coming years, the demand for water will reach twice the available supply, and 40% of India’s population will not have access to clean drinking water by 2030. One of the main reasons is increasing negligence and lack of conservation of water bodies. In the last few decades, water bodies have been under continuous and unrelenting stress, caused primarily by rapid urbanisation and unplanned growth. Encroachment of water bodies has been identified as a major cause of flash floods in Mumbai (2005), Uttarakhand (2013), Jammu and Kashmir (2014) and Chennai (2015).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mathura-admin-revives-784-water-bodies-at-a-cost-of-rs-6cr/articleshow/77134528.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
July 24, 2020||Bareilly||Moradabad railway division ends printing of reservation charts||BAREILLY: In a big push to go paperless and mainly avoid human contact in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, Moradabad's railway division under Northern Railway has decided to restrict printing and storing of reservation charts. According to railway officials, they had to keep six months' reservation records in files. Besides, the move will also help save railways around Rs 40 lakh every year. The record shall be accessed by the railway officials and staff online on the official railway website. Besides, in another nationwide initiative, all rail tickets, including platform tickets, will now come with QR code for contactless entry to stations and trains on the lines of airports. In major IT initiatives, the railway also announced a complete new experience for passengers while booking tickets through IRCTC. The Artificial Intelligence in the system will suggest probability of confirmation and other trains you may try with high chance of getting a confirmed tickets based on your history of your past bookings. Moradabad divisional railway manager (DRM) Tarun Prakash said, “Though putting up reservation charts on trains was discontinued a long time ago, these were being printed and stored in the form of files for internal use by the railway authorities. However, it has now been decided that these will no longer be printed in order to avoid human contact among officials and other railway employees, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The move will not only prove to be helpful in environment conservation, it will also help railways save around Rs 40 lakh annually.” The DRM added, “On successful reserved ticket booking anywhere in the country, a SMS containing URL of QR code will now be sent to the passenger’s mobile number. While entering the station or checking of ticket, the passenger will click on the QR code URL available in his/her SMS and the QR Code of the reserved ticket will be displayed on the passenger’s mobile browser. This QR code can further be scanned by the examiner/ticket checking staff to ensure that the traveller is authentic. The move will also help reduce human contact which will further help contain infection spread.” Any QR code scanning application available in Google Play Store or iOS App Store, such as QR & Barcode Scanner, QR Code reader, etc. can be used for the purpose. The QR code scanning will automatically update the passenger’s details in the application which will provide real-time information on occupancy, number of vacant berths etc. The QR code-based ticket checking system was developed by Prayagraj division of North Central Railway and was implemented on pan-India basis for contactless reserved ticket checking. Centre for Railway Information Systems (CRIS) has rolled out an application covering all Zonal Railways to display reserved ticket details of passengers in the form of unique QR code. The Railway Board has directed officials to train and sensitize all ticket checking staff on the contactless ticket checking system, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/moradabad-railway-division-ends-printing-of-reservation-charts/articleshow/77134558.cms||Maria Khan
July 24, 2020||Aurangabad||High court quashes externment order||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court recently quashed and set aside an externment order against a social worker issued by the sub-divisional magistrate at the behest of police and also confirmed by the divisional commissioner. Sunil Yadavrao Beedkar (45), the petitioner, was on October 17, 2019, externed by the SDM from Paithan, Phulamri, Gangapur and Aurangabad talukas under Section 56 of the Maharashtra Police Act 1951. The Aurangabad divisional commissioner confirmed the SDM’s move on December 26, 2019. Beedkar, however, approached the high court through lawyer S G Magre, citing that he is an educated man and social worker, engaged in social welfare programmes organised by backward class communities. He stated that police, in collusion with some anti-social ailments, have falsely implicated him in criminal cases. He pointed out that the Bidkin police filed B summary report (filed when police do not find any evidence against the accused to file a chargesheet and seek trial) and the other case involved a complaint against him by his wife. The high court bench comprising Justices T V Nalawade and and Shrikant D Kulkarni observed: “On careful scrutiny of the impugned order, it is noticed by us that the divisional commissioner, Aurangabad division, seems to have not applied his mind while passing the impugned order and overlooked the above-said legal aspect.” The bench stated: “It is noticed by us that there is no discussion or subjective satisfaction disclosed in the impugned orders for the externment of the petitioner from the above four talukas when no criminal cases are registered in Phulambri, Gangapur and Aurangabad.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/high-court-quashes-externment-order/articleshow/77136380.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
July 24, 2020||Jaipur||Ready to send tapes to US for scrutiny: CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Targeting union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat over the audio tapes connected to alleged horse-trading of legislators in Rajasthan, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday said these could be sent abroad for forensic tests, if suspicions are raised on laboratories in the country. “He has been nailed,” said Gehlot, without naming Shekhawat. “The audio tapes are authentic and we are ready to send these to the USA if they have no faith in Rajasthan or Delhi FSL,” added Gehlot. The CM asked why the Union minister was not providing his voice samples to probe agencies to establish the authenticity of the audio tapes. “He should come forward for voice tests. Union ministers, MPs and MLAs' voices are already tested. We speak at so many places that people identify our voices. Still, to save oneself, a person’s first reaction is that ‘it is not my voice’,” said Gehlot, addressing the media. “They are now threatening. But I am monitoring every move and won’t let them have their way. Truth will triumph,” he said. Gehlot said he wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the horse-trading of MLAs in Rajasthan so that the latter may not claim to be ignorant of what transpired in the state. “I wrote the letter so that when I meet him next time, he may not say that his party did not inform him. I wrote to put it on record.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ready-to-send-tapes-to-us-for-scrutiny-gehlot/articleshow/77136948.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Indore||Another Congress MLA walks into BJP, third in 12 days in MP||INDORE/BHOPAL: In another blow to Congress in just 12 days, Narayan Singh Patel resigned as MLA from Mandhata in Khandwa and joined BJP on Thursday. Congress is thus reduced to 89 seats in the 230-member House, and there will now be 27 bypolls in MP. Like Sumitra Devi Kasdekar, who had walked out of Congress on July 17, Patel was a loyalist of former PCC chief Arun Yadav. Both of them are first-time MLAs. And five days before this, Pradyumna Singh Lodhi had quit Congress and was promptly handed a plum post by the BJP government. Patel, 63, submitted his resignation to pro tem Speaker Rameshwar Sharma on Wednesday. “I urged him to reconsider, but he remained firm on his decision, so I accepted his resignation today," Sharma said on Thursday. My sole purpose is to develop Mandhata, says Narayan PatelNarayan Patel was welcomed into the saffron fold by CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan and state president VD Sharma. Like the others who switched to BJP, he said his “sole purpose is development of Mandhata”, about 90km from Indore and home to the Omkareshwar Jyotirling. “I have no personal interest but the development of my area. I met CM Chouhan and VD Sharma to request them for development work in my region. I have also prepared a list of projects. I believe BJP is pro-development and favours public interest under Chouhan’s leadership,” said Patel. Patel’s resignation came out of the blue for Congress just as it was busy welcoming former BJP minister K L Agrawal and 400 of his supporters on Thursday. Patel had lost the Mandhata seat twice in 2008 and 2013 before striking lucky in 2018. Like Kasdekar, he had won by a slim margin (1,236 votes). In the past week, the 63-year-old had gone ‘unreachable’ twice, say sources. His phone was switched off and party seniors couldn’t trace him. Yadav said he had taken Patel to Bhopal and met PCC president Kamal Nath. “I was in touch with him till two days ago (before he went missing). How could one guess that he would resign secretly,” he said. “BJP is involved in horse-trading. Congress MLAs are getting moneytrapped by BJP. Whoever wants to go, can go. We will continue our fight against BJP,” Yadav told TOI. Former minister PC Sharma also accused BJP of horse-trading. “The BJP leadership has only power in mind. All these leaders who are joining the BJP have betrayed their family and now pose a big trouble for dedicated saffron workers. They will teach a lesson to BJP leaders,” said Sharma. CM Chouhan hit back, by saying: “Congress has turned into a Twitter party. Congress leaders only tweet their opinions. It was BJP, which brought about development in Mandhata. We all welcome Patel to the family.” BJP Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia also welcomed Patel, tweeting: “Narayan Patel ji decided to support BJP for progress, growth and development of Madhya Pradesh.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/another-cong-mla-walks-into-bjp/articleshow/77138602.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Bhopal||Another Congress MLA walks into BJP, third in 12 days in MP||INDORE/BHOPAL: In another blow to Congress in just 12 days, Narayan Singh Patel resigned as MLA from Mandhata in Khandwa and joined BJP on Thursday. Congress is thus reduced to 89 seats in the 230-member House, and there will now be 27 bypolls in MP. Like Sumitra Devi Kasdekar, who had walked out of Congress on July 17, Patel was a loyalist of former PCC chief Arun Yadav. Both of them are first-time MLAs. And five days before this, Pradyumna Singh Lodhi had quit Congress and was promptly handed a plum post by the BJP government. Patel, 63, submitted his resignation to pro tem Speaker Rameshwar Sharma on Wednesday. “I urged him to reconsider, but he remained firm on his decision, so I accepted his resignation today," Sharma said on Thursday. My sole purpose is to develop Mandhata, says Narayan PatelNarayan Patel was welcomed into the saffron fold by CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan and state president VD Sharma. Like the others who switched to BJP, he said his “sole purpose is development of Mandhata”, about 90km from Indore and home to the Omkareshwar Jyotirling. “I have no personal interest but the development of my area. I met CM Chouhan and VD Sharma to request them for development work in my region. I have also prepared a list of projects. I believe BJP is pro-development and favours public interest under Chouhan’s leadership,” said Patel. Patel’s resignation came out of the blue for Congress just as it was busy welcoming former BJP minister K L Agrawal and 400 of his supporters on Thursday. Patel had lost the Mandhata seat twice in 2008 and 2013 before striking lucky in 2018. Like Kasdekar, he had won by a slim margin (1,236 votes). In the past week, the 63-year-old had gone ‘unreachable’ twice, say sources. His phone was switched off and party seniors couldn’t trace him. Yadav said he had taken Patel to Bhopal and met PCC president Kamal Nath. “I was in touch with him till two days ago (before he went missing). How could one guess that he would resign secretly,” he said. “BJP is involved in horse-trading. Congress MLAs are getting moneytrapped by BJP. Whoever wants to go, can go. We will continue our fight against BJP,” Yadav told TOI. Former minister PC Sharma also accused BJP of horse-trading. “The BJP leadership has only power in mind. All these leaders who are joining the BJP have betrayed their family and now pose a big trouble for dedicated saffron workers. They will teach a lesson to BJP leaders,” said Sharma. CM Chouhan hit back, by saying: “Congress has turned into a Twitter party. Congress leaders only tweet their opinions. It was BJP, which brought about development in Mandhata. We all welcome Patel to the family.” BJP Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia also welcomed Patel, tweeting: “Narayan Patel ji decided to support BJP for progress, growth and development of Madhya Pradesh.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/another-cong-mla-walks-into-bjp/articleshow/77135691.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Amaravati||Government to follow triage policy to admit Covid-19 patients||AMARAVATI: Given the rising number of Covid-19 cases across the state, the government has decided to follow a triage system to admit Covid-19 patients into hospitals. District collectors, hence, have been directed to immediately appoint a team of nodal officers to coordinate admissions into district-level Covid-19 hospitals. No Covid-19 hospital, whether private or public, will admit patients without permission from the nodal team henceforth. Meanwhile, the government has started identifying and designating private hospitals as Covid-19 hospitals to provide treatment under Arogyasri scheme. “The entire treatment for Covid-19 in network hospitals and designated Covid-19 private hospitals will be covered under Arogyasri and they are not authorised to charge anything more than the prescribed rates,” said senior IAS officer B Rajasekhar, Covid-19 special officer. First, the patients will be screened at the nearest primary health centres (PHCs) or government district and general hospitals. After getting the reports, the team of officials headed by the district medical and health officer will decide which patient requires in-patient services. “Triage will be followed while referring patients to hospitals after taking various factors, including health condition of the patient, age, co-morbidities and availability of beds in nearest hospital, into consideration,” said a senior health official. The move is aimed at saving precious resources at hospitals as well as the bread-winners among affected patients, said the official. Sources said youths and middle-aged with severe complications will be given highest priority than the elderly as saving the breadwinners would help save families. “The elderly will not be totally denied treatment. But the call will be taken depending on the actual health condition,” said another officer associated with the triage management. Sources said the decision has been taken to discourage people opting for inpatient services without real need. “Since more than 85% patients could recover right at their homes, the people with simple symptoms or youths without complications will be referred to home isolation,” said the official. All the patients who are referred to the hospitals would be given separate ID card from Arogyasri special coordinator at the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO). The state government has also warned private hospitals of serious consequences if they directly admit Covid-19 patients and provide treatment without taking required permissions. “No hospital except the identified line hospitals should directly admit the patients,” said Rajasekhar. The district level Covid-19 hospital doctors will refer the patients to the state-level Covid centres depending on the need. The state government has recently decided to increase the state-level Covid-19 hospitals’ strength to 10 from the existing five. Meanwhile, the government has also decided to allow hospitals, which were not associated with Arogyasri network, to take permission from the government and provide treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/govt-to-follow-triage-policy-to-admit-covid-19-patients/articleshow/77135685.cms||Samdani MN
July 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka minister CT Ravi says he’s cured and raring to go||MANGALURU: CT Ravi, the first and only minister so far in BS Yediyurappa’s cabinet to contract Covid-19, says he has recovered and he will be back in public from Monday since his stay in isolation has ended. Rather than be admitted to hospital, Ravi, minister for tourism and Kannada and culture, convalesced at his 7.5 acre farmhouse in Chikkamagaluru. “We had planned to set up a layout there [farmhouse], but, in hindsight, it helped me get up close and personal with nature,” Ravi said, adding he spent his time doing yoga, reading, walking and resting. “I had little or no symptoms but for a slight cold,” Ravi said, adding that a concoction of ‘amrutha balli’ and ‘nella nalli’ helped him recover. And although he was in isolation, he stayed abreast of current events by reading newspapers and joining in on meetings with the CM through video conferencing. The ubiquitous cellphone kept him connected too! Ravi said solitude was initially difficult, but it grew on him. “My biggest regret was not able to obtain blessings of my nonagenarian father and my octogenarian mother on my birthday on July 18,” Ravi said, adding he for one never made it a public occasion, but missed their physical warmth. With the worst behind him, Ravi said he will return to active public life with adequate safeguards from Monday and be with his constituents physically.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/karnataka-minister-ct-ravi-says-hes-cured-and-raring-to-go/articleshow/77135143.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 24, 2020||Pune||IMA members offer help as civic health workers test +ve||PUNE: Members of Indian Medical Association (IMA) and other medical bodies have offered to shoulder the responsibilities of overseeing administrative and clinical work at PMC-run Covid-19 centres after two senior civic health officials and their 10 staff members tested positive for the contagion on Wednesday. Sources from PMC said two other senior health officials had fallen sick and were on leave. “We are ready to work in place of the staffers who have been isolated and also those PMC medical officers who like the isolated officials and staff have been working tirelessly for last so many days. They need rest so that they could again resume duties energetically,” Sanjay Patil, chairman of the IMA’s Hospital Board of India, Pune branch, said. The IMA on Thursday communicated their members’ willingness to fill up the gaps at the PMC’s administrative buildings and Covid treatment centres on a temporary basis to the PMC commissioner. “We cannot just go and start dispensing duties at the PMC health office and treatment centres on our own. We need official permission from the municipal commissioner to do so. We are waiting for their reply,” Patil said. “There are about 150 PMC medical staffers, including doctors, nurses and attendants who have been working relentlessly since March 8. They have started getting a weekly off recently. All of them are exhausted. They do need rest for a couple of days to get charged up,” said a health official working at Naidu hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ima-members-offer-help-as-civic-health-workers-test-ve/articleshow/77136386.cms||Umesh Isalkar
July 24, 2020||Hyderabad||PV Subhash hits back at Mallu Ravi||HYDERABAD: Telangana BJP spokesperson and grandson of PV Narasimha Rao, PV Subhash, on Thursday slammed TPCC vice-president Mallu Ravi’s remarks that he should stop using the name of Rao for his own political growth in BJP. “You (Ravi) first ask your party leaders Rahul, Sonia and Priyanka to shed the suffix Gandhi. Congress has no right to utter the name of a great leader like Rao. Congress leaders are now organising his centenary celebrations after disowning him,” he charged. He said the Narenda Modi government built a memorial in honour of Rao in Delhi and released a postal stamp on the late PM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pv-subhash-hits-back-at-mallu-ravi/articleshow/77136413.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Mumbai||No formula on how woman will react to outrage by male: Bombay HC||MUMBAI: There cannot be a straight-jacket formula on how a woman will react to an act of outrage by a male…’’ said Justice Bharati Dangre of Bombay high court while granting bail to a 24-year-old engineering graduate seven months after he was incarcerated in a rape case. The court said prima facie it found nothing on record to point to his guilt and allegations that they were found on the same bed will have to be tested during trial. A 25-year-old had accused him of rape in a bungalow where they, along with friends, were celebrating Diwali last year. The “circumstances” of each woman shapes her response, said the judge, her observations made after she dealt with submissions of Abhinav Chandrachud, counsel for the accused, of “contradictory” statements by the complainant to police and magistrate. “When she raised an alarm to deter him, though being in the same bungalow, no friend came to her rescue, which is astonishing,’’ HC said, observing “photographs placed on record would lead to an impression of her being cheerful in the company of the accused and another friend’’. The photos were taken a day after the alleged incident, the accused had submitted. HC also noted that in her first statement to police a week later, she said she informed friends while leaving the premises, but later told the magistrate “she went home the very next day and did not narrate the incident to anyone’’. The judge said, “The concept of consent of the victim, or as to at what stage the consent was revoked, and the act of physical indulgence was attempted to be restrained, is a matter of trial.’’ Justice Dangre said “long-lived notion’’ expressed by Warren Buffet when he said, “if a lady says no, she means maybe’’, are “old hat tricks’’. She said, “The issue of whether the girl really consented freely’’ to physical intimacy has to be examined “by applying new standards of modern life and present social scenario’’. Prosecutor Ajay Patil and advocate Satyam Nimbalkar for the intervener relied on chat exchanges by the accused with friends to show “acceptance of guilt’’. But HC said the messages were “not reflective of the actual alleged incident, but give an impression that the applicant apologized to some friends about conduct with the victim’’. Chandrachud, citing latest Supreme Court judgements, said extra-judicial confessions in the form of chat messages cannot be read as substantive evidence. HC also said, “It is a settled position of law that extra-judicial confession is a weak piece of evidence, unless corroborated with substantial evidence.’’ A “neat balance has to be struck’’ in the “conundrum between individual liberty of the accused and securing justice for the victim’’, said HC, and observed that chances of a “trial commencing and concluding in immediate times are far beyond reality’’ given the “huge galloping pendency which the judicial system would be staring at, at the end of the Covid pandemic’’. It held that incarceration of a young boy indefinitely would be the antithesis to concept of liberty, but restricted his entry into the jurisdiction of the police station where the case was registered. The judge ordered his release for bail of Rs50,000, keeping in mind his lack of criminal antecedents, firm roots in society and minimal likelihood of absconding. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-formula-on-how-woman-will-react-to-outrage-by-male-hc/articleshow/77135983.cms||Swati Deshpande
July 24, 2020||Vadodara||Three doctors among 40 found infected in Narmada||Vadodara: The Narmada district reported 40 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday. It has the highest number of cases in a day for the district that is adjacent to Surat one of the worst affected. The district authorities are considering imposing a strict curfew in nights to contain the spread. “Out of 40 cases, 23 are from Rajpipla and are related to each other. Three doctors, who are private practitioners, had visited their families in Surat that is witnessing rapid increase in Covid-19 cases. These doctors have tested positive. They met many patients who too got infected along with their friends and families,” said Dr R S Kashyap, epidemic medical officer, Narmada. “The other 17 are from different talukas in Narmada. All those who were reported positive in the last 24 hours had been to Surat recently,” Kashyap told TOI. The total number of Covid cases in Narmada have reached 272 while 135 have been discharged. Only one death has been reported in the district so far. In June, 43 personnel of state reserve police (SRP) and their family members were reported positive, sending the police department into a tizzy. The personnel of Narmada Battalion that guards the Sardar Sarovar Dam were also a part of the group that was posted in Surat during the lockdown. The district had witnessed its first Covid-19 case in April and at one point of time even bent the curve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/three-doctors-among-40-found-infected-in-narmada/articleshow/77135765.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Bareilly||Seven criminals wanted in dacoity-related cases arrested||BAREILLY: Police arrested seven criminals who were planning to commit a dacoity in the Kikar forest area of Budaun on Thursday. Police said the kingpin of the gang carried a reward of Rs 25,000 on his head. There were several cases of dacoity lodged against the seven accused in several police stations of Budaun. Police have also recovered country-made guns and stolen jewelleries from their possession. Senior superintendent of police Ashok Kumar Tripathi said, “During our ongoing operation to nab criminals against whom several cases are lodged, our teams raided the Kikar forest area under Hazratpur police station. The team arrested seven criminals who were planning another dacoity.” Police said that they recovered gold and silver jewelleries, two four-wheelers used in the dacoities, country-made guns, bamboo sticks and torch from their possession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/seven-criminals-wanted-in-dacoity-related-cases-arrested/articleshow/77134575.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
July 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Port phase 3 comes up for environmental clearance||HYDERABAD: The proposed expansion of Krishnapatnam port (phase III) in AP’s Nellore district by Krishnapatnam Port Company Ltd came up for environmental and CRZ clearance on Thursday. The Union ministry of environment and forest’s expert appraisal committee met in Delhi and scrutinised the applications of Krishnapatnam company. Phase III will handle 153 million metric tonnes per annum (MTPA) of non-container cargo with 20 berths and other container cargo services. The government of AP has sanctioned 6,800 acres for developing the port — 3,064 acres used in phases I and II and 3,736 acres designated for phase III. There are already 17 berths operating in phases I and II with 72 MTPA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/port-phase-3-comes-up-for-environmental-clearance/articleshow/77136395.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Balapur laddu auction cancelled||HYDERABAD: The Balapur Ganesh Utsav Samithi will not auction the 21 kg laddu prasad this year. Last year’s auction had fetched Rs 17.60 lakh. The laddu auction at Balapur is a major attraction every year and is followed by a procession to Hussainsagar lake, 20 km away. With the country in the middle of a pandemic, the samithi members also decided to install a 6-feet-tall Ganesh idol instead of the usual 21-feet idol and restrict visitors. The laddu auction at Balapur is a major attraction every year and is followed by a procession to Hussainsagar lake, 20 km away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/balapur-laddu-auction-cancelled/articleshow/77136378.cms||Sunil Mungara
July 24, 2020||Jaipur||Economic slump & higher prices fuel gold smuggling||JAIPUR: Fewer flights and less-stretched workload of customs officials may have improved surveillance for netting gold smugglers in the past couple of months, but the incentive for illegal crossborder trade of the yellow metal has become very lucrative. While jewellers tend to come under suspicion in such situations, they said rise in prices of the commodity, uncertainty in returns from other asset classes and the economic slump are fuelling the demand for smuggled gold. “People who used to deal in accounted money do not have same trust to lend to smaller businesses in the current economic scenario. They are not sure if the money will come back if they lend now. At the same time, they cannot keep the cash idle. Given the fact that gold prices are rising, and outlook is positive, buying smuggled gold is a better option for them,” said a jeweller in Jaipur. Similarly, even though the high duty on gold was always an incentive for smuggle gold, now the returns looks very attractive because of the increase in gold prices. “When gold was trading at Rs 30,000 per 10 grams, 1 kg would cost Rs 30 lakh. By smuggling in, I could evade duty of Rs 3.75 lakh. But now he can gain Rs 6.25 lakh. So the incentive for smuggling has increased after the spike in gold prices,” said another jeweler preferring anonymity. Gold preys on any bad news and there is no shortage of it, given the dire straits the economy is in. People are cautious in investing mutual funds and stock markets. Realty sector, which was also a favourite parking lot for black money, is not in good shape due to demand dip. Despite continued price corrections, transactions remain muted. “People have very few options to park their money. Even businessmen with savings not investing in their factories. The deposit rates offered by banks are very low, leaving them with no options but to invest in gold. That’s why prices are going up which is encouraging illegal import of gold,” said Rajiv Jain, past-chairman of Gem and Jewellery Exports Council. Jain said it is always the jewellery community whose image is tarnished whenever such incidents happen which is never true. “The jewellery trade is increasingly getting regulated. There is accountability for how much we import and export, and also sale in domestic market. So the smuggled gold entering the trade is not correct,” added Jain. But many in the jewellers’ community said because the cross-border movement has been restricted to a few flights, the customs department’s surveillance has been tighter, resulting in the seizures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/economic-slump-higher-prices-fuel-gold-smuggling/articleshow/77136960.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
July 24, 2020||Chandigarh||UT plans survey of building violations in Industrial Area||CHANDIGARH: As the lockdown period is over, the Chandigarh administration now plans to conduct a fresh survey of building violations in Industrial Area phases I and II. It will be carried out by the UT estate office. Sources said, “The exercise was to be started in March, but could not due to the lockdown. Now the administration wants to conduct a fresh survey. Its report will be attached with that on the study of policies of neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana in connection with converting leasehold properties into freehold in Industrial Area, phase I and II.” The Chandigarh administration has already sought permission from the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) for converting leasehold plots into freehold. The UT will attach both these reports along with their proposal. After getting MHA’s approval, the UT will notify the conversion rates, sources added. The administration had last converted leasehold plots into freehold in 1983 in commercial category. It is a long-pending demand of the city industrialists, who had been seeking conversion of leasehold property into freehold and leasehold to leasehold in Industrial Area. Recently, the UT administration had conducted a survey in Industrial Area for checking leasehold plots. The administration had set up phases I and II of Industrial Area during the 1970s on an area measuring 147 acres. The plots are governed by zoning and architectural control, which were prepared as per the conditions prevailing at that time. There are 1,884 plots in both phases, of which 700 are 1 kanal and above, while there are 443 and 180 plots measuring 10 and 15 marla, respectively. There are as many as 381 plots of 5 marla. Recently, the UT administration had allowed certain need-based changes in the architectural controls in accordance with modern day industrial requirements. The UT had even allowed that cycle stand could be used for other purposes such as storage of raw material and other industrial-related functions. In addition to these changes, the UT had also stated that in the wake of theft incidents in industrial areas and requirements of industry, partial covering of central courtyard with poly carbonate sheets for storage only was also allowed, subject to compliance of building bylaws and fire NOC from competent authority of municipal corporation of Chandigarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-plans-survey-of-building-violations-in-industrial-area/articleshow/77135729.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
July 24, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Four booked for harassing women in 2 separate incidents||AURANGABAD: City police have booked four people in two separate cases for harassing women and outraging their modesty. In a complaint lodged with Begumpura police, a 31-year-old woman alleged that a man is following her and sending messages on her mobile phone. “On July 20, the suspect pulled the edge of the woman’s saree when she had gone out to buy groceries in the Town Hall area. Following the incident she approached us and lodged a police complaint. We have booked the man under sections 354 and 354 (D) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC),” an officer from Begumpura police station said. In the second case, the MIDC Cidco police booked three men for allegedly gaining entry into the house of a 20-year-old woman at 2 am on July 22. “The woman was alone at home as her husband had gone to work. At 2am, the trio entered the house and one of them claimed that he liked her. The woman raised an alarm following which the trio fled. When her husband came back from work, they came to the police station and lodged a complaint. The suspect trio has been booked under IPC sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 452 (house trespass) and 34 (common intention).” a police officer said. (The victims' identity has not been revealed to protect their privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/4-booked-for-harassing-women-in-2-separate-incidents/articleshow/77136416.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Mumbai||Report on Elgar Parishad case accused confirms she’s diabetic, has heart disease||MUMBAI: A medical status report on activist accused Sudha Bhardwaj confirms she is diabetic and has ischemic heart disease (IHD). The report before Bombay high court will be addressed by her lawyers when her plea for interim bail on grounds of health and health risk during Covid-19 will be heard. Her petition and that of co-accused in Elgar Parishad case, P V Varavara Rao, also for interim bail on health grounds, did not reach for a hearing. The court said the last 12 matters on the board which included hers and Rao’s before the bench of Justices S S Shinde and S P Tavade will be heard next week. Bhardwaj is at Byculla women’s jail where an inmate tested positive last month. Her plea is that she is a diabetic and suffers from hypertension, and the comorbidities place her in a high-risk category for contracting the infection. National Investigation Agency (NIA), opposing her plea for interim bail, had last month said in its affidavit that she was not entitled to relief even on medical grounds during Covid-19. Arrested in August 2018, Bhardwaj had moved HC against a rejection by NIA court on May 29. NIA court had called for a medical report before rejecting her interim bail plea. The medical officer had said she was “stable at the moment’’ and was being attended to in jail. Her plea on medical grounds was “merely a ruse to obtain an order of interim relief which is not available to her otherwise on merits of the case’’, NIA told HC. Bhardwaj said evidence against her was not admissible and lack “evidentiary value”. But NIA said HC and apex court had found that accusations against her and co-accused for offences under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act were prima facie true and the special law places a strict bar on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/report-on-elgar-case-accused-confirms-shes-diabetic-has-heart-disease/articleshow/77135988.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Pune||Corporator hands over new hospital to PMC||PUNE: Kharadi-Chandannagar corporator Bhaiyyasaheb Jadhav and his family members have decided to dedicate the brand new hospital they have constructed as a Covid-19 care centre. The hospital building in Chandannagar had been under construction for two years and was ready for operation just before the lockdown was announced in March. Jadhav said, “We did not begin the operations of the hospital due to the lockdown. We decided to wait until the situation normalized. Meanwhile, one of our relatives passed away due to Covid-19. He required oxygen support, but despite many efforts there was no such bed available in the city. The situation is very critical across the city so it was a family decision to handover the hospital facility to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) for Covid-19 care.” The family contacted PMC officials and received full support. The civic body insisted that the family run the facility as an empanelled hospital for Covid-19 care. The terms and conditions have been agreed by the family and civic body. The hospital will start functioning from August 3. A staff of nearly 20 people has been hired for the hospital. In addition, the staff will include 3-4 senior doctors and about seven to eight nurses. Jadhav said, “Of 20 beds, 15 have dedicated oxygen support. The remaining beds will also be similarly prepared as there is a major shortage of oxygen beds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/corporator-hands-over-new-hospital-to-pmc/articleshow/77136410.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
July 24, 2020||Dehradun||From medicinal to luxury, demand for ‘tiger wine’, ‘tiger cake’ surging, India one of top suppliers: UN report||Dehradun: Tiger wine goes for $1,000 a pop. Tiger cake, sold like chocolate bars, fetches the same. The illegal trade in tiger parts has moved on from just medicinal pitches to luxury items. And India is one of the two biggest suppliers. Between 2007 and 2018, the latest United Nations World Wildlife Crime Report said, two-thirds of all wildlife seizures globally were of tiger bones. “Thailand and India are the main source countries for these seizures,” the report said, adding that the ones in Thailand came from farmed animals — illegal tiger farms breed them in captivity — while those in India were from the wild. Of the 155 cases in which the nationality of tiger traffickers could be determined, the report added, 18% were Indian, only behind Chinese (29%). Tiger bones are sought after in underground markets for the medicinal and aphrodisiac qualities attributed to them in some forms of Asian traditional medicine. It is infused in wine to make tiger wine, boiled down to make cake or ground into a powder to make pills. “The first tiger bone case I came across in India was in 1986, a seizure near the Dudhwa Tiger Reserve. By the early 1990s, the illegal trade in tiger bones from India to China was widespread,” Belinda Wright, executive director of the Wildlife Protection Society of India, told TOI. The report identifies two trafficking routes — the trans-Himalayan (India-Nepal-Tibet) and the Mekong Delta (southeast Asian countries). “Some border areas in South Asia have been identified as hotspots for tiger trafficking based on high seizure rates recorded there. From South Asia, parts move across the borders of India and Nepal into China via the northeast India route to Myanmar,” it said. The markets are in China, Vietnam and Thailand. But the consumer base has changed. “Consumer demand profiles for tiger products have started to change, and new forms of demand are emerging ... The switch is from tiger meat and tiger wine being consumed only as health products to now also being consumed as exotic luxury products that demonstrate affluence,” the report said. How the trade functions is also changing. “A large part of the trade … has shifted to online sales through social media and messaging apps,” the report said. Qamar Qureishi, senior scientist at the Wildlife Institute of India, had a word of caution: “Almost 70% of human diseases are zoonotic … People should stay away from wildlife products as much as possible to eliminate the possibility of contracting diseases like Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/from-medicinal-to-luxury-demand-for-tiger-wine-tiger-cake-surging-india-one-of-top-suppliers-un-report/articleshow/77123179.cms||Shivani Azad
July 24, 2020||Aurangabad||Turmeric cluster may come up at Hingoli||Aurangabad: Hingoli district and nearby areas, which are collectively known as the cultivation belt of turmeric, are likely to get official boost for the production of the spice concerned. In response to the demand for setting up of a turmeric research and processing board at Hingoli, the state government has decided to submit an official report to the Centre detailing out the modalities for raising the desired cluster. Hingoli MP Hemant Patil on Thursday said that state agricultural minister Dadaji Bhuse has consented to form a study group for preparing the necessary report. "Hingoli district has a huge area of over 41,000 hectare for turmeric cultivation. The district and nearby areas area produce average 1.74 lakh metric tonne of the spice every year. A major chunk of this production is of ‘Selam’ variety of turmeric which is highly popular. The turmeric production in these areas will get further boost if special cluster comes up in the future," he said. Patil said besides production, Hingoli district also exports mother rhizome of ‘Selam’ variety turmeric in different parts of the country. The demand for setting up the turmeric cluster at Hingoli was first officially raised during the meeting of Parliamentary Standing Committee on Commerce, held at Vijayawada in January this year. "Responding to the demand, the central authorities said the necessary proposal must get routed through the state government. As Maharashtra government has agreed for the same, the desired cluster is likely to become a reality soon," Patil said. Farmer activist Deepak Joshi said government cluster for turmeric in Marathwada would help several farmers. “A special cluster will help turmeric growers, who are unorganised in nature. The cluster will facilitate export of the spice in a streamlined manner and ensure good returns for growers,” he said. *** eom ***||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/turmeric-cluster-may-come-up-at-hingoli/articleshow/77136394.cms||Prasad Joshi
July 24, 2020||Bhopal||MP minister who attended Tandon’s funeral tests positive for Covid||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh cabinet minister Arvind Singh Bhadoria tested positive for Covid-19 late Wednesday night, triggering jitters up to Lucknow and Delhi as his contact list of the past week reads like a who’s who — from defence minister Rajnath Singh to Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and the entire state cabinet. Not to talk of the hundreds of party workers he mingled with at events where Covid caution was thrown to the winds. Bhadoria issued a video statement from hospital on Wednesday confirming his Covid status and urging everyone who has come in contact with him to get themselves tested. As soon as news got out, a picture of a maskless Bhadoria hugging Indore BJP president Rajesh Sonkar went viral. The UP and MP governments have sounded the alarm. Bhadoria, a first-time minister, was in Lucknow on July 21 to attend the funeral of Governor Lalji Tandon where defence minister Rajnath Singh, UP Governor and acting MP Governor Anandiben Patel, UP CM Yogi Adityanath, MP CM Chouhan, MP BJP chief VD Sharma and state organising general secretary Suhas Bhagat were also present. Bhagat said he and Sharma have quarantined themselves. “We went to Lucknow in the same car and flight with Bhadoria and were together at the funeral of Governor Lalji Tandon. All top BJP leaders of UP and MP were present. We have quarantined ourselves and are getting tested for Covid-19 on Friday,” Bhagat told TOI. Sonkar, who was clicked in a bear hug with Bhadoria, has also quarantined himself. Bhadoria, who was made cooperatives minister on July 2, had complained of a sore throat on Wednesday night, following which he and his family members and staff got tested for Covid-19. His report came back positive and he admitted to a hospital in Bhopal around 2am. Everyone else in his family has tested negative, said health officials. Only a couple of hours before he was tested, the minister had attended the state cabinet meeting chaired by CM Chouhan at the secretariat. All the ministers were present at the meeting. Bhadoria has also attended the RSS meet that is on in Bhopal in the presence of RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat. CM Chouhan wished him a speedy recovery. “Bhadoria ji, you are perfectly healthy and will resume work again with the same energy. We wish you all the best,” tweeted Chouhan on Thursday. Home minister Narottam Mishra, who was seen meeting reporters without a mask after the cabinet meeting, said on Thursday that he was aware that Bhadoria has tested positive. “Bhadoria is a senior leader of the party. I request all the public representatives, irrespective of their political affiliation, to be aware and remain safe during Covid-19. They should also maintain distance while meeting people,” said Mishra, wishing his cabinet colleague a quick recovery. Bhadoria had also addressed a public meeting in Bhind on July 19 where a large number of BJP workers and his supporters had gathered, crushing Covid caution underfoot. The health department has quite a job on hands as it prepares the minister’s contact list. “Protocol for contact tracing and testing is being followed,” said a senior health department official. Sources said samples of 30 of his close contacts were sent for test on Thursday. In his video statement, Bhadoria said: “I do not have any symptom of Covid-19 at the moment, apart from a sore throat. I request everyone who came in contact with me in the last few days to get tested. There is no need to panic.” He is the sixth Madhya Pradesh MLA to test positive for Coronavirus, four of them from BJP and two from Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-min-who-attended-tandons-funeral-tests-positive-for-covid/articleshow/77135718.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Pune||Man posing as Maharashtra BJP chief arrested||PUNE: The Nigdi police on Thursday arrested a 21-year-old man from Lohiyanagar here for impersonating state BJP chief and Kothrud MLA Chandrakant Patil on a caller-identification app and demanding money from few doctors in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad “towards fighting Covid-19”. A police team, led by senior inspector Ganesh Jawadwad, laid a trap in Pune in the early hours of Thursday and took the suspect, Saurabh Ashtul of Lohiyanagar, into custody. “He was produced before the court and remanded in police custody for three days,” Jawadwad told TOI. Ashtul allegedly sought Rs25 lakh from a doctor in Nigdi. He immediately contacted Patil, who told him to lodge an FIR. Patil, too, lodged an FIR with the Kothrud police as another doctor received a similar call.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-posing-as-bjp-chief-arrested/articleshow/77136398.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Hubballi||Police station sealed in Dharwad||Dharwad: The suburban police station here was sealed on Thursday after two policemen attached to the station tested positive for the novel coronavirus. An assistant sub inspector and a head constable whose swab samples had been sent for the test were confirmed positive on Wednesday. The head constable had come to the station on Wednesday night to inform his officer that he had tested positive and needed to be isolated. His visit sparked tension among other staff members and forced HDMC authorities to seal down the police station. Two other constables who were primary and secondary contacts of the head constable have now undergone a swab test. Two other constables are already home quarantined. So far, four constables of the station have tested positive and one of them has recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/police-station-sealed-in-dharwad/articleshow/77134624.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Chandigarh||UT seeks report on NGT directives||CHANDIGARH: While the National Green Tribunal (NGT) keeps an eye on various issues, including solid waste management, bio-medical and e-waste management, polythene ban, air pollution etc, the UT administration has now sought action taken report on NGT directives from different departments, including the Chandigarh municipal corporation. A senior UT official said UT adviser Manoj Parida had recently reviewed various projects and the NGT directions. Thereafter, instructions were issued to different departments to submit action taken reports on NGT directives. Recently, the NGT had passed an order, asking the municipal corporation to pay fines up to Rs 10 lakh if they fail to implement waste segregation at source. The NGT had also asked the administration to ensure that its directions on plastic, bio-medical, construction and demolition waste were complied with. The NGT had earlier expressed concerns over implementation of Solid Waste Management Rules 2016, saying the issue of solid and liquid waste needed to be taken seriously and accountability needed to be fixed and “consequences for failure clearly provided and enforced”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-seeks-report-on-ngt-directives/articleshow/77135741.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
July 24, 2020||Lucknow||UP ramps up testing benchmark to 1 lakh a day||LUCKNOW: The state government has decided to ramp up the Covid testing benchmark to one lakh per day after successfully conducting over 50,000 tests daily. Though the goal has to be achieved in a phased manner, the government will rely on rapid antigen tests kits that reveal the covid-19 status of a person in 30 minutes. Additional chief secretary information and home Awanish Awasthi said: “Testing has been our strength in the battle against the pandemic. On chief minister’s instructions, the government has decided to undertake one lakh tests per day.” “The state has procured these kits, which will be extensively used in districts to test suspected cases and trace contacts. In fact, the government fixed a target of 500 rapid tests in each district per day. And in districts with a population of more than 25 lakh, 1,000 rapid tests are to be done daily,” he said.Health officials informed the state took stock of 8-10 lakh rapid kits. “The kits will be used in the walk in covid-19 testing centres coming up in the districts,” said an officer. On Wednesday, ACS health and family welfare Amit Mohan Prasad said all districts will have at least 10-20 walk-in test centres to encourage people to test themselves for the virus. On the benchmark of conducting 54,000-plus tests a day, secretary to chief minister, Alok Kumar said: “Our labs conducted 54,897 tests in 24 hours, which is a single-day record for any state. Of these, 31,837 were done through the RT PCR method while 20,366 tests were conducted through Rapid Antigen Kits. The remaining was done through TruNat machines. Antigen tests have helped in overcoming delays in treatment for suspected patients.” Sources also said, the government was evaluating use of antibodies test kits being used by private labs in states like Delhi to boost testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-ramps-up-testing-benchmark-to-1l-a-day/articleshow/77136984.cms||Shailvee Sharda
July 24, 2020||Aurangabad||No confirmed RTE admissions in Aurangabad schools yet||Aurangabad: Only 536 students have been granted provisional admission in schools across Aurangabad district under 25% reserved quota under RTE Act 2009. However, there are no confirmed admissions yet. The number of admitted students is negligible considering as many as 16,587 applications have been received for admissions of academic year 2020-21 as against 5,076 reserved seats in 584 registered schools in Aurangabad district. Educational activist Prashant Sathe said that the government authorities should not cite excuses of the current pandemic situation behind the lingering admission process. “Many schools have already commenced their activities for the new academic year by arranging virtual classes. Even if e-learning is officially not allowed up to Class II currently, many schools are offering it with support from parents. The RTE beneficiaries, therefore, are bound to get affected due to delay in admission process,” he said. As per official statistics, the admission process under RTE Act at the state level has been also moving at a snail’s pace. Maharashtra has registered 37,450 provisional admissions and 11,583 confirmed admissions by Wednesday as against over 2.91 lakh applications. A total of 9,331 registered schools in the state have declared cumulative intake capacity of 1,15,449 seats under RTE Act 2009 for academic year 2020-21. In a major change in the admission process this year, the state education department has de-centralised document verification of beneficiaries at school levels instead of centralised committee at district level. The measure, which aimed at avoid crowding during the pandemic situation, is blamed for allegedly slowing down admission process. “Many schools are still shut and offering education in virtual manner. Therefore, no manpower is available in school to carry out the document-verification process,” Sathe said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/no-confirmed-rte-admissions-in-aurangabad-schools-yet/articleshow/77136450.cms||Prasad Joshi
July 24, 2020||Aurangabad||30 IMA docs who contracted Covid-19 recover||Aurangabad: As many as 30 doctors registered with the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Aurangabad chapter, who had contracted Covid 19 ever since the beginning of the pandemic, have recovered. IMA Aurangabad president Dr. Santosh Ranjalkar said that almost 50% doctors who had contracted Covid-19 were aged 50 and above. “Private doctors are discharging their services even during the current pandemic and are, therefore, exposed to the infection. All 30 doctors who had developed the infection defeated the disease successfully. The time, the recovery time varied for each doctor with a few requiring almost a month to get recuperated,” he said. IMA Aurangabad chapter has set up a special cell to extend all possible to help to its members testing positive for Covid-19. “The cell has a group of leading doctors on its panel. We offer different help and support to admitted doctors as well as their families,” Ranjalkar said. As per IMA, one city-based doctor in his early 70s, died after undergoing treatment for Covid-19. “The veteran was admitted in a hospital for few weeks, but succumbed after different health complications,” IMA office-bearers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/30-ima-docs-who-contracted-covid-19-recover/articleshow/77136436.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Chandigarh||On-run SHO on PO path in graft case||Chandigarh: The special court of the central bureau of investigation (CBI) initiated proclamation proceedings against suspended and absconding SHO Jaswinder Kaur in a graft case, on Thursday. The court stated that she is “deliberately absconding” and “concealing” herself to evade arrest. The order was passed on Thursday after non bailable warrants were received back unexecuted with a report that the accused SHO is absconding. The court has issued proclamation warrants against her and directed her to appear in the court before August 28, failing which she would be declared a “proclaimed offender.” The high court has also denied her pre-arrest bail. According to the court orders, notices would be affixed on public places regarding her disappearance and public announcements would also be made to trace her before declaring her PO. Sushil Kumar Garg, special judge, CBI, stated in the order, “This court is fully satisfied that the accused SHO is intentionally and deliberately absconding and concealing herself with a view to evade her arrest, despite having a knowledge of the proceedings initiated against her.” The court further observed that proclamation proceedings are required to be initiated against her in the “interest of fair justice.” The judge ordered that the proclamation warrant should be issued requiring the accused SHO to appear before this court on August 28 at 11 am. It adds, “The CBI official is directed to do the needful for the purpose of making the publication of proclamation on or before July 27 on which date he shall appear in person before this court and file his affidavit regarding the publication of the said proclamation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/on-run-sho-on-po-path-in-graft-case/articleshow/77135767.cms||Neha Sharma
July 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Cop held for negligent driving||Mohali: The Mohali police arrested a constable, who was booked for negligent driving, after around two weeks. The accident resulted in the death of a 19-year-old youth. The accused has been identified as Amarjeet Singh, a constable, who is posted at the Balongi police station. The incident dates to July 3, when a 19-year-old boy, Sukhbir, was heading to his home and when he reached the Industrial Area, Phase VIII, the accused’s vehicle rammed into him. The victim later succumbed at PGI. A case was registered against the cop. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cop-held-for-negligent-driving/articleshow/77135758.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Pune||Ganesh mandals to extend aid to corporation||Pune: Members of over 270 Ganapati mandals in the city have agreed to join the contact tracing exercise conducted by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to identify close contacts of Covid-19 patients. The initiative will begin in the Kasba-Vishrambaug ward, which has the highest number of Covid-19 cases among 15 civic wards. Representatives of mandals have said that their workers would be able to identify the contacts faster since they know local residents and the area better. Even residents would feel comfortable interacting with them as they are acquainted. Corporator Hemant Rasne, who is coordinating the initiative, said that the drive was launched after many mandals said they wanted to contribute in the Covid-19 mitigation work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ganesh-mandals-to-extend-aid-to-corporation/articleshow/77136462.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 24, 2020||Pune||Prolonged isolation takes a toll on children||By: Anjali Jhangiani PUNE: The isolation brought about by the lockdown imposed in the wake of coronavirus spread has taken a toll on the physical and mental well-being of children below 12 years of age, experts said. The experts dealing with child psychology said that it was extremely important for kids aged below 12 years to physically interact with their peers. From the age of six onwards, children learn more from their peers than any other source, they said. “When children have ample opportunity to interact with the others their age, they become confident about their place in the world. Lifelong patterns of communication and social interactions tend to get cemented before a child is eight years of age,” psychologist Pragati Sureka said. She added, “Children tend to be resilient and adaptable. Yet, the paradoxical pressure of lockdown months with no routine and lethargy, followed by intensive pressure from schools to make them tech-savy with online instruction is proving to be a challenge. Parents also need to be vigilant and watchful for symptoms of distress or age regression like bed wetting, thumb-sucking, nightmares, change in food intake – excessive or under-eating, inability to concentrate, fatigue or sleeping too much, refusal to get out of bed. If any of these symptoms are seen for more than two weeks, it is imperative to seek help from a licensed mental health professional.” Hasini Yadav, parent advisor, child educator and counsellor, who is also the director of MUMzHub and Mathrusakhi Foundation, said, “A study found that children and adolescents are more prone to depression due to the lockdown. Mental health issues like sleeplessness, depression, withdrawal, are more common in younger age groups.” Psychologist Anuja Kapur said, “In current scenario, it is essential that parents make sure their kids understand why they are being shut out from the rest of the world.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/prolonged-isolation-takes-a-toll-on-children/articleshow/77136433.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Jaipur||Probe Union minister Shekhawat in Sanjivani scam, orders Jaipur court||JAIPUR: Union water resources minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, who is facing a Special Operations Group (SOG) probe on charges of trying to topple the Congress government in Rajasthan by horse trading, is in for more trouble. A court in Jaipur has directed the SOG to investigate the role of the minister, wife and his associates in the Sanjivani Credit Cooperative Society scam in Jodhpur amounting to Rs 884 crore. The additional district and sessions court order followed a petition by Ladu Singh and Guman Singh, both residents of Barmer, who had invested Rs 54 lakh and 24 lakh respectively in the scheme of the society but failed to get their money back. A K Jain, counsel for the petitioners, said the SOG had been investigating the case after filing an FIR (No. 32/2019) on August 23, 2019. Preliminary investigation found that around 50,000 investors were duped of around Rs 884 crore. Four of the accused in the case were arrested including kingpin Vikram Singh. The petitioners said neither their role in the scam was investigated nor property seized. According to the petitioners, Shekhawat, his wife Naunand Kanwar and their associates Rajendra Baheti and Kevalchand Dakliya had diverted the society money into their real estate and other companies promoted by them namely Surya Bhoomi Build Infra Pvt Ltd, Lucid Pharma Pvt Ltd and Nav Prabha Buildtech Pvt Ltd etc. Some property was purchased in foreign countries like Ethiopia. The petitioners’ application in the magistrate court seeking to make the minister and his associates role in the fraud was rejected on July 13 on the ground that they have no locus standi as they were neither petitioners nor respondents though their names figures in the list of duped investors. Jain argued that the petitioners were victims of the fraud and the magistrate court decision is illegal as investigation in the case is still going on in the case under 173(8) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/probe-minister-shekhawat-in-sanjivani-scam-orders-court/articleshow/77136975.cms||Joychen Joseph
July 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana students crack TISS entrance test||HYDERABAD: As many as 13 students from Telangana Social Welfare Degree College and one student from Tribal Welfare Degree College aced the national level entrance exam and interviews being conducted by the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Mumbai. The selected students will pursue postgraduation in courses like Women studies, Natural Resources and Governance, Public Policy and Governance, Education and Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-students-crack-tiss-entrance-test/articleshow/77136458.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Hyderabad||AP records steepest spike of 8,000 cases||Visakhapatnam: The novel coronavirus is galloping in Andhra Pradesh with the highest single-day surge of 7,998 Covid-19 positive cases and 61 deaths on Thursday. According to the latest Covid-19 statistics released by the state, AP registered the second-highest single-day spike of cases after Maharashtra, which reported 9,895 cases on Thursday. Overall, the southern state is place on the fifth position in the country with a caseload of 72,711, behind Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, and Karnataka. The Covid-19 graph has been on the upward trend since July 1 with an unprecedented spurt in positive cases and toll. On July 6, AP had just 20,019 cases and was in the 10th spot. The Covid-19 toll increased to 884 but on a positive note, 5,428 patients recovered from the pandemic and were discharged from hospitals across the state on Thursday. The high toll is blamed on late reporting by patients to hospitals and comorbidities. The all-India recovery rate for Covid-19 cases is 63.18 percent, as against AP’s 51.65 percent. The low recovery rate also explains the spurt in the deaths. There are currently 34,272 active cases, besides 37,555 cumulative recoveries and 884 deaths. This translates into a recovery rate of 51.64 percent in the state. Three districts reported more than 1,000 Covid-19 cases. East Godavari district contributed a record 1,391 new cases, taking the tally to 10,038. It is the first district in the state to cross 10,000 cases. Guntur registered 1,184 cases and Anantapur 1,016 cases. Kurnool district registered 904 cases while West Godavari 748, Visakhapatnam 684, Nellore 438 and Srikakulam district 360 cases. Of the 61 deaths, 14 were reported from East Godavari district, seven each from Guntur and Kurnool districts, six deaths each from Krishna and Srikakulam districts and five each from Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram districts. Three deaths each were reported from Chittoor, West Godavari and Prakasam districts while one each from Kadapa and Anantapur districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-records-steepest-spike-of-8000-cases/articleshow/77136489.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Mysuru||Madikeri post office sealed; 2 staff +ve||Madikeri: The district post office at Madikeri was sealed for two days after two employees tested positive on Thursday. The patients, a 49-year-old man and a 21-year-old youth — both living in the staff quarters behind the post office — were diagnosed with Influenza Like Illness, said sources. While the post office has been sealed for two days, staff quarters has been sealed down for 14 days. Kodagu on Thursday recorded 13 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the active cases to 94. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/madikeri-post-office-sealed-2-staff-ve/articleshow/77134674.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Jaipur||SOG notices to Manesar hotels to provide info||JAIPUR: Rajasthan’s Special Operations Group (SOG) team on Thursday served notices to two private resorts in Manesar to provide CCTV camera footage from July 10 as well details of the fact if a room was booked in the name of suspended Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma who is suspected to be staying in one of the two hotels. Ashok Rathore, ADG (SOG and ATS) told TOI, “We received credible inputs that the MLA was residing in one of the two private resorts and hence we have asked the hotel administrations to provide us with the necessary details at the earliest.” According to the notices served to the hotels, in case if there were any bookings in Sharma’s name, then they have to provide details including check-in, check-out, parking, identity proof, payments, etc. The officials claimed that the team was again intercepted by Haryana police which refused to let them inside the resorts. While Rajasthan’s DGP had written to the top cops of both Haryana and Delhi seeking support in the investigation, they are yet to extend their assistance. The SOG team had gone to Delhi and Manesar last Friday to serve summons to the MLA named in the one of the two FIRs lodged by Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi. One of the two FIRs mentioned Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, Gajendra Singh and Sanjay Jain. The FIRs were lodged after two audio clips went viral in which the trio could be heard discussing alleged horse-trading of MLAs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sog-notices-to-manesar-hotels-to-provide-info/articleshow/77136991.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Chandigarh||VP nominates 2 senators against vacant posts||Chandigarh: M Venkaiah Naidu, Vice President of India-cum-chancellor of Panjab University, has nominated two new senators for the present tenure up to October 31. Dr Suresh Tandon, former vice-chairman of the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB), and Professor Sanjay Kaushik, Dean, College Development Council, Panjab University, have been selected for the posts. They have been nominated against the vacant seats due to resignation of Professor Shelly Walia and Professor Amita Rishi. This has raised questions whether the newly elected senators will be eligible for voting in the faculty elections, which is scheduled for August 24. The list of final voters has already been notified. Senators, on the basis of anonymity, asked the need to appoint these members when there was no chance of holding any senate meeting due to the coronavirus pandemic. Meanwhile, six candidates of Navdeep Goyal and Ashok Goyal group filed their nomination for the upcoming faculty senate elections on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vp-nominates-2-senators-against-vacant-posts/articleshow/77135779.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Pass students on basis of last performance: Punjab and Haryana high court||CHANDIGARH: Keeping in view continuous increase in the number of Covid-19 cases, the Punjab and Haryana high court has observed that Panjab University could consider and examine the issue of conducting final year examination. The Punjab and Haryana high court has extended an interim stay on final examinations till August 13, when the matter will come up for hearing. During the resumed hearing of the case, Himmat Singh Sidhu, advocate, counsel for the petitioner, stated that some of the students will have to travel from far off places like Leh and Ladakh to give examination for final semesters, which is difficult in time of Covid-19 crisis. After arguments, the HC observed that Panjab University could consider and examine the issue of conducting final year examination, keeping in view the decision dated June 23, 2020 taken by the Government of Maharashtra and a decision, dated June 22, 2020 taken by the Central University of Tamil Nadu, whereby they have decided to pass students on the basis of their previous semesters’ performance. The HC has given these directions on a petition, whereby petitioners sought quashing of order which directed final year students to appear for their end semester exams. It was submitted that as per the notification dated June 19, 2020, Panjab University will conduct the final semester examinations in July 2020. The advocate also referred to the judgment passed by the Delhi high court that guidelines issued by the University Grants Commission (UGC) and the ministries are unanimous that there is no compulsion on Delhi University to conduct examinations for the final year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pass-students-on-basis-of-last-performance/articleshow/77135774.cms||Neha Sharma
July 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Allocations to government departments cut by Rs 6,000 crore||GANDHINAGAR: With incomes sliding because of the lockdown, the government has for the first time cut budgetary allocations to its departments. The total cut amounts to Rs 6,305 crore. The decision was taken recently after consultations with all departments. Sources in the government said that another reduction in allocations is likely in the coming days. “Due to the sharp decline in revenues, the state government has directed all departments to review their budgetary demands and voluntarily suggest reductions in allocations,” a source aware of the developments said. “Accordingly, the departments have reduced their budgetary demands collectively by Rs 6,305 crore.” The source said that in normal circumstances, the budget revision process starts in December and is finalized by February. “For the first time, this has happened in the second quarter itself,” the source said. “Most of the departments could not spend anything during the lockdown, so they have naturally revised their estimates.” The source went on to say: “We expect that during the revision in December, further reduction in the budget will be done.” There is a possibility of about 15% gap in the government’s incomes, he said. “So the overall budget size could be sliced by 8-10%,” he said. The biggest reduction in allocations has been proposed by the roads and buildings department, which is Rs 705 crore. The education department has suggested a cut of Rs 600 crore and the industries and mines department wants to shave off Rs 542 crore. The energy and petrochemicals department has proposed that Rs 504 crore be slashed from its allocation. The home department will chop its budget by Rs 500 crore, the Narmada department by an equal amount, and the water resources department by Rs 471 crore. The panchayat department will shrink its budget by Rs 332 crore and the social justice & empowerment department by Rs 200 crore. The urban development and urban housing department and the health & family welfare department have proposed no cuts in their demands in the first instance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/allocations-to-government-departments-cut-by-rs-6000-cr/articleshow/77136408.cms||Kapil Dave
July 24, 2020||Mumbai||More ST buses day after protest at Nalasopara||MUMBAI: MSRTC increased bus services at Nalasopara on Thursday morning as people formed queues and there was heavy police presence to ensure there was no law and order problem. People had protested on Wednesday against “inadequate” services at the depot. Many office-goers depend on road transport to come to Mumbai. MSRTC managing director Shekhar Channe said he had taken serious note of what happened at the depot and would try to increase buses. “But we want only office-goers and those going to work to be at the depot. Others should avoid crowding there,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/more-st-buses-day-after-protest-at-nalasopara/articleshow/77135991.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Man loses Rs 3.25 lakh to debit card cloning||NASHIK: A man lost Rs 3.25 lakh from his bank account after his debit card was cloned by conmen, Nachik city cybercrime police informed on Thursday. According to a police officer, a complaint was registered by the victim claiming that the money was withdrawn from his account between July 2018 and August 2019. As per the complainant, the money was withdrawn from his account from various Automated Teller Machines in Nashik, Mumbai, Pune and other areas. The bank first carried out an internal enquiry about the incident in which it was found that the withdrawals were initiated using the debit card number that customer was provided with. After having completed all the necessary formalities, the bank has now registered the complaint against the unidentified person who withdrew the money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-loses-rs-3-25-lakh-to-debit-card-cloning/articleshow/77136473.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||City’s Samrat trumps UP’s Samrato||Ahmedabad: A city-based manufacturer of snacks and savouries, Samrat Namkeen Pvt Ltd has won a trademark suit against Kanpur’s Samrat Product, as the city civil court has restrained the Uttar Pradesh company from using ‘Samrato’ brand for its products claiming that is deceptively similar to the word ‘Samrat’. Samrat Namkeen had approached the court in 2011 complaining that it is a reputed name in manufacturing of savouries and snacks. It has got tradename ‘Samrat’ registered since 1980 in India, USA and UK. The Kanpur firm deceptively and in an unauthorized manner uses the brand name ‘Samrato’ for its products and it is an infringement on its trademark rights. The Kanpur-based firm told the court that while Samrat Namkeen deals in savouries, it uses the name ‘Samrato’ for candies and toffees — both are different products and the markets too are different. However, the Ahmedabad firm insisted that products of both the companies are sold through same sellers – confectioners - and therefore because the trademark is phonetically similar, there is a possibility of confusion among consumers. After hearing the case, city civil court judge Andleep Tiwari said that both the marks – Samrat and Samrato - are not similar. The Ahmedabad company’s trademark is in Hindi and Gujarati whereas the Kanpur firm’s trademark is in English. The colour schemes of both the marks are different. “Visually both the marks are distinct and there is no similarity between the two marks and therefore no scope for the confusion to the customers. However visual similarity is not the sole test to discern the deceptive similarity and therefore if we apply the test of phonetic similarity, the two marks emit a similar sound and therefore there is a similarity between the two and there are fair chances of confusion in the mind of the customer,” the judge observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/citys-samrat-trumps-ups-samrato/articleshow/77136428.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Modus operandi of gold smugglers baffle customs officials||JAIPUR: Be it carriers or ways of concealing gold, smugglers from Dubai, Riyadh and other nations are constantly changing their modus operandi. This was revealed by the customs officials who were investigating recent smuggling cases. The syndicate chain, which smuggles gold into Jaipur, chooses carriers very carefully.  “The carriers, who were arrested, revealed that they were labourers working as plumbers, watchmen, mechanics and others in United Arab Emirates (UAE) and gulf counties. They are lured with free ticket to Jaipur. Along with this, they are paid Rs 10,000 to Rs 25,000 per consignment,” said a senior officer of customs department. After the arrival of these carriers in Jaipur, they are though unaware where they need to give the item like an iron, sandals and other stuff in which gold is concealed, but people part of the racket are aware of their arrival. “After the carrier is given consignment, his picture is sent to the local agent in Jaipur who picks him up. Sometimes these carriers are aware that they are smuggling gold, sometimes they are not. After coming to Jaipur, they are transported to their native village and they find a man who shows their picture to them and gets the delivery of gold,” said an officer. Customs officials also stated that suppose 1kg gold is smuggled into Jaipur, it does not belong to a single jeweller or person. “A group of persons or jewellers contact the traders in these countries and 1kg gold is been sent to a local man who melts it and distributes it as per the order,” the officer added. Also, as a new modus operandi to cheat the metal detector gold is now been sent in rubbery and jelly form.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/modus-operandi-of-gangs-baffle-customs-officials/articleshow/77136999.cms||Ashish Mehta
July 24, 2020||Bareilly||Don’t sacrifice animals in public place, offer prayers at home: Sunni Barelvi cleric||BAREILLY: Ahead of Eid-ul-Zuha, sajjadanasheen of prominent Dargah Aala Hazrat Mufti Ahsan Raza Qadri on Thursday appealed to the community members to avoid sacrificing animals in public places. He urged the people to avoid dumping of animal waste in the open and to cover the meat before distributing it. The cleric added that people should follow the Covid-19 guidelines and only five people who have been permitted should offer prayer in the mosque while others should pray at home. Media coordinator Dargah Aala Hazrat Nasir Qureshi said, “In his appeal to community members across the country, Mufti Ahsan Raza Qadri said the animal should not be sacrificed in the open and the waste should be properly buried in a pit. He has urged the people to offer prayers from home and follow government’s guidelines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dont-sacrifice-animals-in-public-place-offer-prayers-at-home-sunni-barelvi-cleric/articleshow/77134666.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
July 24, 2020||Nashik||1,700 antigen tests in Nashik city in 2 days||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has started conducting rapid antigen tests to detect Covid-19 patients with over 1,700 swabs checked in just two days. The municipal corporation has started increasing the number of testings across the city in a bid to break the chain of coronavirus in the city. Of the recently conducted 1,700 tests, 132 people tested positive for the contagion. “We have received 9,000 antigen test kits from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and we are expecting 25,000 more kits in the next few days,” said NMC officials. According to health officials, the entire procedure of the antigen test takes about 20 minutes. “It also helps to provide immediate treatment to the patient,” said officials. Officials said that there has been a rise in Covid positive cases in the city. “Hence, we are tracing out both high and low risk contacts of positive patients. We want early detection of these contacts, therefore, we are now focusing on increasing antigen tests in the city,” the officials added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/1700-antigen-tests-in-nashik-city-in-2-days/articleshow/77136483.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Pvt hosp fails to segregate waste, fined||Mohali: The Mohali municipal corporation has penalised a private hospital for failing to segregate and dispose of general waste generated in the hospital. The MC had slapped a fine of Rs 5,000, which the hospital management has paid. MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said the hospital had been penalised for failing to abide by the instructions of the corporation for conducting in-house disposal of dry and wet waste generated from the kitchen and other sources in the hospital. Garg said, “The hospital has been penalised Rs 5,000 for not been able to create an in-house general garbage disposal system. We have been asking them to do so for the past many months, but due to Covid-19 lockdown, inspection could not be conducted. Now, they have been penalised and have been asked to adopt in-house garbage disposal and segregation system and get inspected by the MC.” He said the hospital generated bulk waste, which was more than 100 quintal a month, which included kitchen as well as other waste from the wards and tuck shops and the hospital was supposed to establish an in-house disposal system. “They are supposed to create a composting system for wet waste, which they failed to do so and have been penalised,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pvt-hosp-fails-to-segregate-waste-fined/articleshow/77135787.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: News channel anchor stalked, accused held||AHMEDABAD: A news anchor with a Gujarati channel on Wednesday filed a complaint of stalking and sexual harassment as a man driving his car stalked the woman riding her scooter. She said the man made obscene gestures towards her. Vastrapur police identified the accused as Bhavin Patel, 33, a resident of Naranpura, and arrested him a few hours after the complaint was lodged. Patel manufactures boxes for pharmaceutical products, said inspector Y B Jadeja of Vastrapur police. According to the FIR filed by the 28-year-old woman, she was travelling from Gandhinagar towards Ahmedabad late on Tuesday evening. At that time, she realized at Chharodi Crossroads on SG Road that a car was following her. At TGB Crossroads on SG Road too she found the car behind her. Scared with this, she used a different way to get rid of the car driver and drove towards Mansi Circle. But he was constantly stalking her. When she stopped at Mansi Circle, the accused made obscene gestures towards her, said a police official. She, then, called up police control room but before the cops reached there, the accused had fled from the spot. As it was late night, she did not go to police station to file the complaint. Late on Wednesday night, she moved a complaint with Vastrapur police. The cops arrested the accused and charged him for stalking and sexual harassment. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/news-channel-anchor-stalked-accused-held/articleshow/77136508.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: Lockdown comes under fire as traders count their losses||PUNE: Businessmen and traders in the city, reeling from the impact of the of the 10-day lockdown which ended on Thursday, have opposed any further restrictions. They said the latest shutdown came as a body blow to many sectors, such as restaurants, agriculture, real estate, readymade garments, footwear and jewellery, which had barely begun to recover from the previous lockdowns. The Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association (PRAHA) pegged losses at Rs25 crore during the past 10 days for small and big restaurants in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, with delivery services suspended and vegetable stock going to waste. “Restaurants had called their workers back to start delivery services, paid for their journey back to Pune and resumed paying their salaries, when the lockdown was imposed. While we continued paying salaries, what little we would earned has stopped. We had purchased raw material for the food, which had to be discarded,” PRAHA president Ganesh Shetty told TOI. PRAHA has written a letter to the divisional commissioner, district administration and deputy chief minister, expressing strong opposition to another lockdown. The wholesale vegetable traders association in Market Yard too has opposed any further lockdowns, stating that even traders dealing in essential goods have suffered 75% losses in the past 10 days — the market was completely shut for the first five days and allowed to operate for four hours a day thereafter. Vilas Bhujbal, president, Chhatrapati Shivaji Market Yard Traders’ and Agents’ Association, said the four-hour window caused a massive drop in sales. “Even though our shops sold essential commodities, we did just 25% business during the lockdown,” he said. The Pune District Retail Traders’ Association said they would adhere to all sanitization and safety norms to prevent Covid-19 spread, but will not support another lockdown. “Small traders are finding it difficult to pay shop rent. All businesses except those dealing in essentials were shut, while expenses like loan instalments, maintenance, taxes, house expenses and medical bills continue,” president Sachin Nivangune said. The Federation of Trade Associations of Pune (FTAP) has pegged their losses at over Rs500 crore. FTAP secretary Mahendra Pitaliya said they had recovered barely 10% of their business in June. “The losses were caused by no revenue and continuing expenses like salaries, rent, EMIs and utility bills,” he said. FC Road Traders Association said that the lockdown has nullified the Rs2-3 lakh profit the traders may have earned on an average. It would be higher for brand outlets. RTO to work on weekendsMeanwhile, the road transport office and 27 revenue offices will reopen on Friday. “All the work related to licensing, registration and fitness tests will resume at the RTOs in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. The 10-day lockdown has created a huge backlog and if there are no further restrictions, we will work on weekends to clear it,” deputy road transport officer Sanjiv Bhor told TOI. (With inputs from Joy Sengupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lockdown-comes-under-fire-as-traders-count-their-losses/articleshow/77136497.cms||Neha Madaan
July 24, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gold prices have risen by 30% this year||Ahmedabad: Continuing its upward rally over global factors, gold price touched a new record high on Thursday at Rs 52,500 per 10 gram in Ahmedabad, including 3% goods and services tax (GST). With this, gold clocked a 30% rise in prices this year, against Rs 40,300 per 10 gram on January 1. Analysts attribute the rise in gold prices to the surge in fresh cases of coronavirus coupled with a depreciation in the US dollar. Yellow metal price surged by Rs 600 in a single day, against Wednesday’s Rs 51,900 per 10 gram. “Demand for gold as a safe-haven investment has increased amid rising uncertainty in the economic situation globally, in the wake of the ongoing crisis. Equity markets globally are highly volatile and that has also caused a greater shift towards gold,” said an Ahmedabad-based bullion trader. Industry players said that the demand for bullion has shown a rise in the past one month as gold prices are on an upward trend. However, jewellery purchases have shown a drastic decline, with even steep discounts failing to woo customers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gold-prices-have-risen-by-30-this-year/articleshow/77136452.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Bareilly||Nine-year-old sodomised by youth in Bareilly||BAREILLY: A nine-year-old boy was sodomised by a 22-year-old local youth in Premnagar area of Bareilly on Wednesday night. The boy was playing with his friends when the accused offered to let him play video games in the latter’s room and took him away. Once he had the boy alone in his room, the accused locked the door and sodomised the boy. After the assault, the boy barely managed to reach his home and fell unconscious. He was rushed to hospital where he regained consciousness and told his mother all about the assault. The boy’s family approached police on Thursday and filed an FIR against the youth, who is absconding since the incident. The accused is identified as Amit Kumar, a tailor by profession who works with his father in the latter’s shop. Police conducted raids at the shop and their house, but both were closed and members of the family were absconding. SHO Premnagar police station Balbeer Singh told TOI, “The accused, Amit, has been booked under sections 377 (unnatural offences), 506 (criminal intimidation) and POCSO Act. We are conducting raids and also trying to track his cellphone location, and expect to arrest him within 24 hours. We sent the victim for medical examination after recording his statement.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)Watch UP: Nine-year-old sodomised by youth in Bareilly||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/nine-year-old-sodomised-by-youth-in-bareilly/articleshow/77132507.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 24, 2020||Dehradun||Bagwal festival to take place ‘symbolically’, crowds barred from visiting temple||Pithoragarh: The Devidhura temple committe has decided to conduct the famous Bagwal festival, where people throw stones at each other during Raksha Bandhan to appease goddess Barahi Devi, symbolically this year due to the Covid-19 scare. On June 27, the Devidhura temple committee had decided to seek permission from the administration to organise a ‘miniature version’ of the festival to mark the occasion where only four people from two groups would participate. “The organisers and the administration met on Wednesday and came to the conclusion that instead of allowing four people, only one person from each group, along with the priest, will visit the temple and take part in the ritual. We have also decided to prohibit mass gathering on the temple premises,” Laxman Singh Lamgaria, member of temple committee said. Every year, thousands of people take part in the sport at Devidhura temple in Champawat on Raksha Bandhan, which falls on Shravan Purnima, that is on August 3. Two groups are chosen from Kumaon and Garhwal regions where they rain stones at each other. Locals believe that shedding blood during the festival would appease the presiding deity and make their wishes come true.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bagwal-festival-to-take-place-symbolically-crowds-barred-from-visiting-temple/articleshow/77134721.cms||Prem Punetha
July 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Bank employees allowed to commute between Kasaragod & Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Weeks after blocking entry and exit of all daily commuters, the government of Kerala has relaxed the rules. Now, only bank employees from Kasaragod will be allowed to travel daily and work in Dakshina Kannada provided they meet the conditions. Meanwhile, those from Mangaluru will have to undergo seven days of quarantine in Kasaragod before joining duty there. Kasaragod district administration has also decided to provide special KSRTC bus service exclusively for students from Kerala writing Karnataka Common Entrance Test (CET) scheduled on July 30 and 31. Students from various parts of Kasaragod will be dropped at Talapady. Kasaragod district collector Dr D Sajith Babu said that bank employees should travel from Kasaragod to Mangaluru in their private vehicles only. “Bank employees should submit their identity card and details of vehicles to Kasaragod district administration through Covid-9 Jagratha portal. Meanwhile, bank employees from Karnataka will have to undergo seven days of quarantine and an antigen test will be done on the fifth day. They will be allowed to work only if the test reports are negative. All of them should submit affidavits stating they will not be working in any section in the bank branches that directly deals with the general public,” the collector said. On CET exam, he said that students will not be allowed to travel in private vehicles. “Students and their family members should remain in quarantine for seven days after the CET exam and they will have to undergo an antigen test on the fifth day,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/bank-employees-allowed-to-commute-between-kasaragod-mangaluru/articleshow/77135832.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Pune||PMC clips number of micro containment zones by 22||PUNE: The civic body on Thursday reduced the number of micro containment zones in the Pune Municipal Corporation limits to 87 — stretching over about 6.5sqkm and less than 3% of the total area in its jurisdiction. There were 109 containment zones in the Pune civic limits before the fresh round of strict lockdown started on July 14. They were on about 6.69sqkm area of the PMC limits, covering more than 3% of its total area. According to a fresh order by municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar on Thursday, residents in non-containment zones will be allowed to run, jog and walk. Cycling should be considered as a preferable option, it stated. Kumar said, “PMC had some aims, including more testing, contact tracing and improving the number of hospital, beds while introducing the strict lockdown. We have fairly achieved them.” The city from Friday will be back to the limited restrictions phase, introduced in June first week under the Unlock 1 phase 1. The relaxation given in subsequent phases would also be applicable now. According to the new order, people would be able to use grounds in private societies or near their housing complexes. Parents should accompany children in these places. The common place, gardens and grounds should not be used for any purposes other than personal fitness activities. The order stated that all the marketplaces barring malls and commercial complexes would be opened with odd and even system in non-containment zones. They can operate from 9am to 7pm. People have been advised to visit nearby shops. The shopkeepers will be responsible for maintaining the 6ft distance between two people. The authorities will ask to close the shops if they observe any norms are flouted. Autorickshaws, cabs and four-wheelers would be allowed to ply with only three persons, including the driver. Two-wheelers can be used only by the riders for essential works. Private offices can function with 10% staff or a maximum of 10 employees. IT and ITeS firms would be allowed to operate with 50% staff strength, and the call centres with minimum manpower. Domestic helps would be allowed to go to work after owners of houses in non-containment zones give their consent. Electricians and plumbers will be allowed to provide services with all precautionary measures like wearing masks and usage of sanitizers. In containment zones, only essential and emergency services, and shops can function from 9am to 2pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-clips-number-of-micro-containment-zones-by-22/articleshow/77136510.cms||प्रसाद श. कुलकर्णी
July 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Parents urge educational institutions to reduce fees||MANGALURU: With most resources and infrastructure not being utilised in educational institutions due to online classes, parents have been demanding that educational institutions give a discount of at least 75% in fees, as their wards have not been availing all the facilities offered on campus, which are now closed. For example, parents of a school near Bendoorwell, who have paid half of the prescribed fees, said that they are unwilling to pay the remaining amount. “Due to the pandemic and the subsequent lockdowns, we have invested in gadgets, internet connections and accessories required for online classes. Our children are not using any facilities on the premises of their educational institutions now. It is not right on the part of educational institutions to demand full fees,” expressed an unhappy parent. Some parents also said that they are facing a dire financial situation due to the pandemic. “Asking to pay the full fees is not acceptable as our children do not use all the facilities of the school, like labs. Hence, we want the fees to be reduced,” said parents. Dakshina Kannada DDPI Malleswamy said that a lot of parents have approached the department to ensure that they get a discount in fees from educational institutions. “We cannot do anything since a government circular has asked educational institutions not to hike fees, which they have not done, and reduce fees if possible, which will never happen. The department is acting against only those schools that forcefully collect fees,” he said, adding that some schools considered as small players are willing to reduce fees. Students of some of the departments of Manipal Academy of Higher Academy have been protesting, as the management has asked them to pay hostel and lab fees, which they are not using for many months. “Our college demanded a full yearly fee from us last week. It has given us time till the end of July to pay it and late payment will attract fines. We understand that we agreed to this amount while taking admissions, but there is no hint as to when the college will open again. As media students, we require labs, libraries and studios. We indefinitely will have online classes, so we think it is unfair that our college is asking for the regular fee despite us not having access to any facility it provides. We have voiced this concern with our college, but they have been silent so far. We haven’t got any response regarding this issue,” complained students of the Manipal Institute of Communication, MAHE. Students studying other courses have also raised this issue. Dr H S Ballal, pro-chancellor, MAHE, said the institution is not collecting any hostel fee, and as far as the fees are concerned, it cannot be reduced. “Ours is a self-financing private university. As of now classes are held online, and students can use labs and other facilities once the MHRD allows for regular classes on campus,” he maintained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/parents-urge-edu-institutions-to-reduce-fees/articleshow/77135596.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
July 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Centre to push one district one product strategy in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Even as Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao is keen to push his regulated farming agenda, the Centre has now set its eyes to implement one district-one product (ODOP) scheme in states. Under ODOP, the Centre wants to change the market viability options for farmers. Under the scheme (Uttar Pradesh is already implementing it), once the product of a district is identified, processing and marketing support would be provided to ensure a good market price for the product (crop). “At the same time, productivity per acre can be increased,” officials explained. The Centre has suggested Miryalaguda and Nizamabad for cultivating paddy though Nizamabad is known primarily for its turmeric crop. Jagtial will also come under focus for paddy cultivation. Sources said the state government would soon finalise a district-wise crop plan and send it to the central government. Telangana Rashtra Rythu Samanvaya Samithi (TRRSS) president, TRS MLA MLC Palla Rajeshwar Reddy said regulated farming has multiple benefits as it is not limited to one season or a crop. “Even without the Centre’s prodding, the TRS government has been focused on regulated farming. Under ODOP, each district’s crop pattern will be decided and monitored. It has its own advantages,” he said. In neighbouring AP, Chittoor tomato was picked under the ODOP scheme. Officials said tomato farmers in Chittoor district and surrounding areas could now hope for better days with the Centre deciding to support the production, processing and marketing of the edible fruit. Union food processing minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal said the ODOP cluster approach would be adopted to provide credit-linked subsidy for setting up two lakh micro food processing units across the country. The Rs 10,000 crore central scheme was launched on June 29. Experts said as part of the many changes proposed in the state agricultural scenario, there would be a focused crop-based approach for each of the 33 districts. Apart from paddy and cotton, red gram, soyabean, green gram, groundnut, maize and sugarcane are seen as focus crops in the state’s plan under the ODOP scheme. Giving the example of Punjab which once had achieved great levels of productivity in agriculture, an official said the state had failed to continue the trend because it failed to implement the regulated and focused farming.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/centre-to-push-one-district-one-product-strategy-in-t/articleshow/77136513.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Scooter rider dies after hitting bump||NEW DELHI: A scooter rider died when he lost his balance after hitting an asphalt bump on a partly constructed road at Rajokri village in south Delhi. Locals claimed that the construction work was halted because of the lockdown. The labourers then went away, leaving the work half done. The road remains busy throughout the day as it connects the village to Rajokri crossing. The victim, Kapil Yadav (30), was a resident of the village. He was returning home from work on the road running parallel to Rajokri Air Force Station on Tuesday evening when his scooter got disbalanced on the new asphalt layer. His head hit the road and he became unconscious. Passersby called the PCR and Yadav was taken to a hospital where he was declared dead on arrival. Doctors said Yadav’s head injuries caused excessive blood loss, which led to his death. After the incident, a blame game started between area councillor Manoj Mehlwat and MLA Naresh Yadav over the incomplete work. The councillor alleged that though the road was under the corporation, it was being relaid using funds sanctioned by the MLA as it was dug up last year by Delhi Jal Board (DJB) for sewer repair work. “We had asked Delhi government to release funds for the half-done work, but to no avail,” he added. Refuting the claims, the MLA said the responsibility of repairing the road was given to the corporation after the assembly elections and the funds required for it had been transferred by DJB. “Since the road belongs to the corporation, we had asked them to get it repaired before the lockdown. However, the pace of the work was very slow. After the lockdown, the labourers left and the work stopped completely,” he added. A case of causing death due to negligence and negligent driving has been registered. Chandpal, an eyewitness, said, “This is not the first time that a two-wheeler rider has slipped or lost balance due to the partly constructed road. After the incident, posters of both the civic agencies were removed from the area.” Anil, Yadav’s brother, told police that he was the only earning member of his family. “This road is used by thousands of people throughout the day. We refuse to believe that no one noticed the death trap. This is absolute negligence on the part of the authorities. So far, we haven’t received any assurance for compensation from the government,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/scooter-rider-dies-after-hitting-bump/articleshow/77136507.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Mysuru||Fertilizer shops without PoS machines to face the music||Mysuru: Though the state agriculture department has made it mandatory for fertilizer shops to procure Aadhar cards from farmers before selling them fertilizers and install point of sale (PoS) machines in the shops, many shopkeepers are not following the guidelines. The department has decided to take action against the erring shops that sell fertilizers at subsidised rates including primary agricultural cooperative societies (PACS). The subsidized fertilizers have to be distributed to farmers only after matching the biometric details of farmers. Speaking to TOI, joint director of agriculture Dr M Mahantheshappa said that the district has about 600 fertilizer shops, but majority of them have not yet installed PoS machines till today and they are also not collecting the Aadhaar details of the beneficiaries despite several advisories and warnings. The installation of such machines and collecting Aadhar details helps the government regulate fertilizer sales. It also helps fertilizer shops and companies to get their subsidy component. The delay in installation has made it difficult for the department to study the consumption pattern of the farming community. “Citing server and network problems, shop owners are dilly dallying to install the machines and collecting Aadhar details. The department will recommend the higher authorities of the government to stop supplying fertilizers to the shops which are found violating this order”, Mahantheshappa cautioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/fertilizer-shops-without-pos-machines-to-face-the-music/articleshow/77133079.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Mysuru||Confusion prevails over allotment of seats under RTE||Mysuru: Thousands of students and parents from economically weaker and socially disadvantaged sections of society on Thursday faced anxious moments over getting free seats under RTE to LKG and Class I in private schools. Uncertainty loomed large with them not receiving any update on the RTE seat allotment, which, according the revised calendar of events, was to happen on Wednesday itself. However, the Department of Public Instruction (DPI) issued a notification later in the day, stating the seat-allotment process will happen on July 29. As many as 11,466 children have applied for 10,478 seats being made avaialbe as RTE seats at private unaided schools. According to the DPI notification dated July 3, the seat allotment was scheduled for Wednesday (July 22). But when the parents did not get any SMS on the same, they tried to contact the RTE helpline in Bengaluru. They got anxious when the helpline did not respond. “We were informed by the DPI officials that we will receive the seat allotment results via SMS on Wednesday. As we didn’t receive any SMS, we tried to call the RTE helpline, but there was no response,” said Mary P, a resident from Ashokapuram here. District-level DPI officials said that seat allotment did not happen on Wednesday. “We are waiting for the information in this regard from the head office,” said many officials that TOI spoke to. Nagasimha G Rao, convener, RTE task force, said that the DPI should have kept the parents in loop. “All of them waited anxiously. There was no update from the department (till Thursday afternoon),” he said. When contacted, DPI commissioner K G Jagadish said the RTE seat allotment process did not happen on Wednesday due to technical reasons. “We have rescheduled it for July 29,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/confusion-prevails-over-allotment-of-seats-under-rte/articleshow/77134141.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Mangaluru||Congress blames govt for Dakshina Kannada’s Covid -19 death toll||Mangaluru: Dakshina Kannada District Congress Committee (DCC) held a protest on Thursday, alleging that lapses on part of the state government and district administration were responsible for nearly 60 Covid deaths. “Dakshina Kannada district administration has miserably failed in managing the pandemic. The government should make public the total amount spent for Covid management in the district. The government should also take action against private hospitals that refused treatment to patients,’’ said DCC president and MLC K Harish Kumar. “The government has not taken any effective measures in the past one month. This has resulted in the massive spread of the disease in the state. There is no coordination between ministers in the government. Many people died due to lack of proper treatment and some died on the road. Pregnant women were not given proper treatment even in government hospitals. A woman from Nellyadi was made to visit four government hospitals and was forced to return to her village after treatment was denied. All these instances are the testimonies to the failure of the government. We know that it is not the time to hold protests, but we have to raise our voice against government’s apathy,’’ he said. “We will have to intensify our protest if the government does not respond to people’s grievances,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/congress-blames-govt-for-dakshina-kannadas-covid-19-death-toll/articleshow/77135868.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Lucknow||Liquor shops get exemption from weekend curbs in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: In a relief to tipplers, the UP government has allowed liquor shops to remain open during the weekend curbs. Shops will remain open from 10 am to 9 pm on all days but the government has specified that it will not allow drinking in public places. UP started implementing restrictions over weekends, starting at 10 pm on Fridays and ending at 5 am on Mondays, from July 10 in view of the rising number of Covid cases. During this period, all shops, malls, grain wholesale markets, restaurants etc remain closed in an effort to discourage people from venturing out. On Thursday, the government issued an order, exempting retail shops selling beer, model shops, foreign and country made liquor, and bhang, from this order. However, this order is not applicable on those shops which are located within containment areas. Those shops which have been allowed to function will also remain open from 10 am to 9 pm, including the weekends. Additional chief secretary (excise) Sanjay Bhoosreddy said that in another clarification on the rule that liquor vends should remain open for 12 hours, if, due to a pandemic, law and order situation or some natural calamity, the district magistrate concerned wanted to alter the time of operation, he or she can only do so after seeking permission from the excise commissioner. The decision was in the light of unilateral decisions taken by DMs and commissioners in various districts during the past few weeks of closing down vends earlier than the scheduled time of closure, he said. The Liquor Seller Welfare Association welcomed the decision, saying that they had been facing major losses as a large part of their sales took place over the weekend. Kanhaiya Lal Maurya, the general secretary of the association, said that they had written to both the Lucknow DM and the excise commissioner on July 15, apprising them of the difficulties they were facing. “During this period, various districts had started closing down shops at all hours, from 5 pm to 8 pm, even though there was an order to keep them open till 9 pm. Secondly, the weekend closure meant that we were losing a lot of our sales and licensees were finding it difficult to meet their monthly quota specifications. This would lead to excise losses for the government too and we had requested that liquor vends be exempt from this rule,” Maurya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/liquor-shops-get-exemption-from-weekend-curbs-in-state/articleshow/77137018.cms||Neha Lalchandani
July 24, 2020||Delhi||Directorate of education director shifted; Delhi govt not consulted, says Manish Sisodia||NEW DELHI: Deputy chief minister and education minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday questioned the Centre’s intention after the ministry of home affairs transferred the director, directorate of education (DoE). Sisodia asked Amit Shah, Union home minister, if the director was punished for delivering good results in Class XII board exams. He also alleged that the state government was not consulted on the transfer. Binay Bhushan has been transferred to Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Sisodia tweeted, “Within a week of Delhi government schools achieving 98% results, the central government has transferred the education director to Andaman. The central government did not even consult with the state government. @Amit Shah (ji) ! Is this the punishment for giving good education to the poor children of Delhi?” Bhushan was in the department for a long time. Prior to becoming the director, he was a special director in the DoE. Earlier, Sisodia met the students who have essential repeat this year in Class XII CBSE exams. Only 2% students have essential repeat this year in Delhi government schools. “If we look at it only as a figure, it is very less. We could have been satisfied with the 98% result. But for us, these are our students, not just a mere statistical figure. Every child is important to us. This is the reason why I am meeting these children who, for some reason, have not been able to perform so well,” he said. Sisodia encouraged students to ask questions and seek help when required. He asked them to give him feedback on the areas where the government could improve. “Today, we have not called any principal or teacher so that you can speak to me without any hesitation. There has been a drastic change in our schools. But if there is still something missing, we need your help in fixing it. If a student isn’t able to succeed, we want to understand what is still lacking in our system. We want every single child to achieve greater heights and it will be possible only when you will give us inputs,” Sisodia said while talking to the students. Students attributed the poor performance to issues related to the family, personal and lack of interest in the subjects they studied. A few of them had financial issues and some were with single parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/doe-director-shifted-govt-not-consulted-says-sisodia/articleshow/77136515.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Hubballi||KIMS nurses report to work after daylong protest||Hubballi: Nurses who staged a protest on Wednesday at the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences premises demanding better amenities returned to work on Thursday. The nurses staged protest till evening on Wednesday, alleging that they were not being provided good quality personal protection equipment kits and N-95 masks. They demanded quarantine facility for the staff attending patients at the Covid ward and insurance coverage. The protesters alleged that some officials misbehaved with them when they went to submit a memorandum. Deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil had a meeting with the nursing staff and KIMS director on Thursday. The DC said that all the demands of the nursing staff will be fulfilled as per government rules. Patil hailed the efforts of Covid warrior in treating the patients and requested them to continue their service. He asked the director, chief administrative officer, doctors and nurses, to work in tandem to contain the infection. He said it is mandatory for all the staff in KIMS to work on 100% rotation. And the roster has to be sent to the government. He said steps will be taken to provide better food, accommodation and 6th pay scale to all the working nurses of KIMS. KIMS director Dr Ramlingappa Antartani said that due to increased admission of Covid patients, KIMS is facing pressure. To ease this, additional 250 beds will be made ready for the Covid patients. KIMS administration is doing its best to solve the problems of the staff. All the warriors will get the benefits as the government procedure, he said. President of Nursing Staff Association Subhash Shellikeri, additional deputy commissioner Shivanand Karale, KIMS deputy medical superintendent Dr Rajshekhar Dyaberi, tahsildar Shashidhar Madyal and others were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kims-nurses-report-to-work-after-daylong-protest/articleshow/77134733.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Dehradun||Concerned with rising Covid-19 cases, Uttarkashi villagers seal borders||Uttarkashi: Concerned with rising number of Covid-19 cases in Barkot town in Uttarkashi district, people of a nearby village, Kharsali, have sealed the borders of their village on their own. The villagers said they would not only allow “outsiders” to come to their village but also would not let people of their village to cross the border. They even threatened to complain to the district administration if anyone disobeys the diktat. “Many pilgrims and outsiders used to visit Kharsali village, which is renowned as a winter abode of goddesses Yamuna. Besides, local villagers also visit Barkot town for their routine works and to meet relatives. Though Barkot is nearly 45 kilometres from Kharsali, we fear that novel coronavirus might also reach here,” said Amit Uniyal, deputy pradhan, Kharsali village. Responding to the move taken by the villagers, Ashish Chauhan, district magistrate, Uttarkashi, said, “Although, sealing the borders is not the correct way to contain the pandemic, we can understand the fear of the villagers. We will convince them to open the borders. We will also motivate them to follow safety guidelines to remain protected. The administration teams are working on contact tracing and early detection of patients to control the spread of contamination.” Meanwhile, the traders of Barkot town, which has reported 14 cases in the past one week, have decided to shut the market till July 26. District president of vyapar mandal Kabul Singh Panwar said, “Except for shops selling essential items like grocery, milk, and medicines, all other stores will remain closed.” “Moreover, traders of Uttarkashi, Purola and Naugaon regions have also decided to reduce the timings of the market for few weeks as a precautionary measure”, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/concerned-with-rising-covid-19-cases-uttarkashi-villagers-seal-borders/articleshow/77134746.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
July 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Man who was denied Covid-19 test dies||HYDERABAD: A 32-year-old man died in Jogulamba Gadwal district a few days after he was allegedly refused a Covid-19 test at a local government hospital. Officials, however, have said that he never approached them for a test. His body was taken for burial in a proclainer on Wednesday by the family. The man, who was from Ramapuram had returned after a visit to Tirupati along with his friends a week ago. One of his friends tested positive for Covid-19 four days ago. Local health workers traced the contacts of the person, who died, and identified the 32-year-old too. Waddepally medical officer Dr Raju told TOI that he had informed the health workers that he showed no symptoms of Covid-19. Villagers, however, claimed that his request for a test was turned down. Later the man, who suffered breathlessness, died. According to officials, the man had morbid obesity and could have also died of a heart stroke. However, no Covid-19 test was done even after his death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-who-was-denied-covid-test-dies/articleshow/77136522.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 24, 2020||Bareilly||In a first, UP to prepare 'atlas' of cranes in state||PILIBHIT: As part of a conservation effort to protect cranes and their habitat, for the first time, UP's forest department in collaboration with Lucknow University will prepare an ‘atlas’ of this avian species in the state. Sunil Pandey, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), UP, said, "The atlas will comprise data of crane species in the state, the birds' population assessed on the basis of the forthcoming census, their diversity, distribution and characteristics with maps concerned. The prime threats to their survival and factors influencing the damage to their habitats will be identified and thereafter strategies needed to ensure their conservation and growth will be formulated." The project is led by former principal chief conservator of forest KK Jha and professor Amita Kanaujia of the department of Zoology, Lucknow University. According to Jha, the previous crane census conducted in 2010 had revealed the presence of five species of cranes in the country -- the Indian sarus crane, Eurasian crane, Black-necked crane, Demoiselle crane and the Siberian crane. Of these, a maximum number of sarus cranes was found in the belt stretching between Etawah and Shahjahanpur in UP. A total of 11,905 sarus cranes was recorded in the previous census, he added. Jha said studies have revealed a decline in the population of sarus crane and shrinking of their geographical distribution over the past decade. Now, the sarus crane is listed as "threatened" by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). The other species are also facing the same threat, he added. Therefore, it was imperative to formulate a policy for the conservation of cranes in the state. A team of forest officials recently underwent a day-long training through a webinar on identifying the crane species and their nests, differentiating male and female as well as mature and adolescent cranes to conduct the avian census, beginning August 1. It will be conducted in two phases – pre-breeding and post-breeding. During the pre-breeding phase, the data on cranes’ nests and a number of eggs will be collected and compared with the census of post-breeding phase to access status of damage, said Kanaujia. For the first time, a record of GPS positions of the crane habitats will also be made, she added. Jha added the post-breeding census will be completed in a single day to prevent any possibility of cranes’ movement to other regions and consequent doubling in figures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/in-a-first-up-to-prepare-atlas-of-cranes-in-state/articleshow/77132560.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Pune||Inter-district travel passes likely in August||PUNE: State home minister Anil Deshmukh is in favour of continuing with the inter-district travel pass distribution process in August also. At present, the passes are issued for emergency travel. Deshmukh told TOI, “If we allow movement without any restriction, the situation will be unmanageable. The restrictions are in place to avoid over-crowding. We will review the situation before allowing any relaxation in terms of the inter-district travel. Otherwise, inter-district travel e-passes will be issued in August just like in July.” The Pune city police were at present focusing on issuing permits for emergency cases. “We have only 140 inter-district travel requests pending. We will accord priority to families reporting medical emergencies and deaths. For such cases, we issue travel permits within an hour So far, we have processed over 50% emergency requests within an hour,” said Bachchan Singh, Pune police DCP (crime) and in-charge of issuing the passes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/inter-district-travel-passes-likely-in-aug/articleshow/77136528.cms||Nisha Nambiar
July 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Transco, Genco to maintain LI projects’ pumps||HYDERABAD: The state government has decided to hand over pumphouses and sub-stations of 15 major lift irrigation (LI) projects to TSTransco and TSGenco soon. Officials said the government took the decision as maintenance of the agriculture pumps and sub-stations has become a herculean task for the irrigation department due to lack of expertise and manpower at a time when the government is keen to complete the LI schemes, especially those under the Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project (KLIP), to provide irrigated water to fields and drinking water to villages. According to officials, seven LI projects are on the Krishna basin, while eight on Godavari river basin which have 48 lifts and pumphouses. Some of the LI projects like Kaleshwaram have big motors with a capacity of 139 MW and connected to 400 kV sub-stations. The projects are estimated to consume 7,088 MW in 2020-21. “Of this, 6,265 MW power is required for projects on the Godavari basin. Kaleshwaram alone consumes a lion’s share of 4,900 MW power. Though KLIP was inaugurated last year, power consumption was low due to less number of lifts and good monsoon season. All the lifts consumed only 2,400 MW in 2019-20. Now, it is expected to touch the peak consumption demand,” a senior Transco official said. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao recently held a meeting with irrigation officials, who expressed their inability to maintain the sub-stations and pumphouses citing maintenance issues. “Transco has been taking care of Alimineti Madhava Reddy project. We are ready to take over maintenance of LI projects’ pumphouses and sub-stations if the government gives us the directions,” Transco and Genco chairman and managing director D Prabhakar Rao said. The power utilities estimated that the irrigation department will have to pay Rs 120 crore a year towards maintenance of sub-stations and pumphouses. This is apart from power consumption bill, which is around Rs 7,000 crore a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/transco-genco-to-maintain-li-projects-pumps/articleshow/77136533.cms||Koride Mahesh
July 24, 2020||Pune||Mylab 1st Indian firm to get approval for antigen kits||Pune: City-based Mylab Discovery Solutions has now become the first Indian firm to receive commercial approvals from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to make antigen testing kits, each unit of which would cost Rs 450.The company was also the first domestic firm to receive approvals for RT-PCR kits. “This development adds another product of testing solutions for Covid-19 virus,” the company said in a statement. The antigen test kits were co-developed with Gujarat-based Lab-Care Diagnostics. “While Covid-19 vaccine gets developed, aggressive testing is an important tool that we have. Mylab is committed to provide high-quality indigenous solutions for testing,” said Sujit Jain, director, Mylab.Serum Institute of India’s chief executive officer Adar Poonawalla, who has invested over Rs 100 crore in Mylab for a less than 50% stake, said earlier this month that the total tests were grossly inadequate and the government must open up to more testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mylab-1st-indian-firm-to-get-approval-for-antigen-kits/articleshow/77136530.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
July 24, 2020||Pune||Shopkeepers sulk, but will stick to P1/P2 operations||Pune: Traders across the city said they were dissatisfed with the administration’s decision manadating the P1/P2 system for shops from Friday following the end of the 10-day total lockdown period. The Federation of Trade Associations of Pune (FTAP) had opposed the P1/P2 arrangement for opening of shops. It wantedopening of all shops for seven days in a week from 10am to 7pm or from 10am to 8pm on weekdays with a complete lockdown during weekends. The Pune Municipal Corporation in its fresh orders, however, directed the traders to follow the P1/P2 norms from Friday. FTAP secretary Mahendra Pitaliya said, “We had urged the administration to discontinue with the P1/P2 system. We have been told to wait till July 31 for the revised orders. The market will open in accordance with the P1/P2 arrangement.” He added that the authorities were are deliberating on the proposal of keeping the shops open for five days with a lockdown on weekends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shopkeepers-sulk-but-will-stick-to-p1/p2-operations/articleshow/77136535.cms||Rujuta Parekh
July 24, 2020||Dehradun||‘Yog Nagri Rishikesh’ railway station ready||Dehradun: Constructed under the ambitious Rishikesh-Karnaprayag rail project, the ‘Yog Nagri Rishikesh’ railway station which aims to facilitate rail connectivity to the Garhwal hills, is now ready. Chief minister TS Rawat on Thursday inspected the newly-built station. “The railway line to Rishikesh will encourage more pilgrims to visit the Badrinath and Kedarnath shrines. The station has been given a modern look with state-of-the-art facilities even while ensuring that it is environment-friendly. Special facilities have also been provided for the elderly and disabled,” the CM said, after the inspection. “The Rishikesh-Karnaprayag project, once completed, will greatly enhance Uttarakhand’s tourism potential. With the completion of the Doiwala-Uttarkashi stretch, all Char Dham shrines will be connected with the railway line,” he added. Although a date hasn’t been announced yet, the inauguration of the railway station is expected soon, sources said. Notably, the Rishikesh-Karnaprayag rail project is being monitored as a project of national importance through the PRAGATI (Pro-Active Governance And Timely Implementation) portal, a platform launched by the Union government for monitoring and reviewing important projects of the Union government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/yog-nagri-rishikesh-railway-station-ready/articleshow/77134802.cms||Gaurav Talwar
July 24, 2020||Dehradun||Rainfall, landslides cut off several roads in U'khand hills||Dehradun/Pithoragarh: Several roads and highways in Uttarakhand, including the Badrinath highway, got blocked due to incessant rainfall in the hills on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday. The Rishikesh-Badrinath highway was also blocked due to recurring landslides at Lambagad and Totaghati, with the authorities trying to clear the debris and restore the traffic movement, a press release from the State Emergency Operation Centre (SEOC) stated. Apart from that, the Pithoragarh-Tawaghat road at Dobat, Dhal-Munsiyari road at Hardiya, and Tawaghat-Sobla road at Khet was also closed off due to landslides. At the time of writing this report, the officials from the district disaster management office were in the process of clearing all the three roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rainfall-landslides-cut-off-several-roads-in-ukhand-hills/articleshow/77134822.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Pune||Pune: Shops to stay open 9am-7pm, eatery takeaways to resume||PUNE: The 10-day total lockdown of the city ended on Thursday, bringing back into effect the earlier, more relaxed lockdown that had been extended till July 31 via a state notification issued on June 29. Saurabh Rao, officer on special duty at the divisional commissioner’s office, told an online news conference on Thursday that the earlier lockdown would be restored in the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation limits and their adjoining areas from Friday. Among other things, shops and market places can function in non-containment zones under the P1/P2 system from 9am to 7pm, restaurants can offer takeaways, and autorickshaws, cabs and four-wheelers can ply with restricted number of occupants. Rao said that in the four weeks between June 25 and July 21, Pune conducted around 1.17 lakh Covid-19 tests — the highest number of tests for any city or district in the country. Rao and Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar maintained that the 10-day lockdown had enabled them meet the larger objectives — identifying and isolating Covid-19 cases through aggressive testing, intensive contact tracing (8-10 contacts behind each positive case) and augmenting oxygenated, ventilator and intensive care unit beds in both government and private hospitals. Rao said the recovery rate among Covid-19 patients in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits was 59.2%. “The CFR in the PMC limits is 2.5%, which is slightly higher than India’s 2.4% and Pune district’s 2.3%, but less than Mumbai’s 5.6% and the state’s 3.8%. We still have some way to go to achieve a CFR below 1% as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines.” Referring to the four-week period between June 25 and July 21, Rao said, “Pune conducted the highest tests for any city or district in the country as part of an aggressive testing and contact tracing strategy. We conducted 22,800 tests from June 25 to July 1, 25,000 from July 2 to July 8, 32,000 from July 9 to July 15 and 37,000 from July 16 to July 21. The case fatality rate (CFR) for these four weeks was 2.6%, 1.8%, 1.9% and 1.4% respectively.” Rao said, “Based on a study of all existing factors, the PMC area is projected to end up with 27,000 active cases by the end of July and 3,000 of them will require hospitalization.” The officers said the administration would next focus on the Peth area-wise testing of potential super-spreaders, including shopkeepers, traders, their employees and fruit and vegetable vendors. The existing contact tracing strategy looked good, they said, adding that priority was being given to the testing of high-risk contacts. Low-risk contacts can be tested between day 2 and 5. Regarding operation of shops, Rao said, “Proposals by the traders’ bodies are under consideration and the civic, district and police officials will work out a consensus before announcing a final decision.” One of the traders’ associations had suggested five-day operation of shops with total closure on Saturdays and Sundays. Another association was in favour of such closure on Tuesdays and Wednesdays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shops-to-stay-open-9am-7pm-as-earlier-lockdown-returns/articleshow/77136547.cms||Vishwas Kothari
July 24, 2020||Hyderabad||70-year-old dies after hospitals deny admission in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Not just Covid-19 patients, senior citizens testing negative for the virus too are being turned away from city hospitals citing unavailability of beds. In a recent incident, 70-year-old Ch Vasantha Christopher lost her life after two hospitals — private and government — refused to treat her. Several other facilities, that the family members called, too denied admission. The over five-hour-long ordeal began on July 14, when Vasantha complained of breathing problem and called her daughter, Varsha Peram, for help around 11.30 pm. “The ambulance reached her home in RTC X Roads around midnight from where we rushed her to a corporate hospital in Musheerabad,” said Varsha adding, “The doctors performed a CT scan of the chest and noticed her lungs were filled with fluid. Suspecting it was a case of Covid-19, they asked us to shift her to some other hospital immediately and refused further treatment. This, despite six-seven beds being available in emergency,” she added. Incidentally, in the first week of July, the patient underwent a Covid-19 test. Her result was negative. “We took her to a government hospital in Koti, soon after, where they told us that they would not take in a 70-year-old who had comorbidities,” said Varsha recollecting how they called numerous hospitals, through the five hours, only to be told there weren’t any beds. At around 4.30 am, while they were still pleading with doctors at Koti to admit the patient, Varsha said the ambulance driver told them that her mother had died in the ambulance. “Even after hearing this, the doctors did not bother to come out and try to resuscitate her,” Varsha said. “In the same ambulance, we rushed her to two other hospitals, but even there, no doctors attended to her,” she added. Distraught and angry, Varsha questioned the system. “How can hospitals deny treatment? Do the lives of senior citizens have no value?” she said. When contacted, K Ramesh Reddy, Director of Medical Education (DME), maintained that all government hospitals, except Gandhi and King Koti, were admitting non-Covid-19 patients. While he refrained from commenting on private hospitals, he said: “Everyday corporate hospitals send many critically ill patients, or those on the verge of dying, to government hospitals. The latter cannot be blamed for these deaths.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/70-year-old-dies-after-hosps-deny-admission/articleshow/77137050.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
July 24, 2020||Pune||Icertis on hiring spree, to double headcount by December||Pune: Buoyed by encouraging demand from clients for its contract lifecycle management solutions, city-based unicorn startup Icertis has hired over 320 employees since March-end and plans to recruit another 200 employees, mostly engineers, till year-end or even beyond. “We have told our new hires that the work-from-home option can continue even beyond 2020 if they so wish...the same will also apply to our existing staff,” Pranali Save, chief human resources officer, Icertis, said. Save said the employees were also being introduced to new benefit components like reaching ergonomic chairs and tables to employee households, provision of high-speed internet and unlimited power supply system. “Given the market conditions, this is a good time to pick right talent. We are also planning for future business,” she added. In the initial days of the pandemic, there was a discussion to see if layoffs were important, but that was done away with. From there on, the company decided to increase focus on investing in employee training. “We are excited that we have been able to put in place various learning modules and virtual connect sessions that have allowed us to welcome and quickly transition talented individuals,” Save said. Icertis manages over 7.5 million contracts with a total contracted value of over $1 trillion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/icertis-on-hiring-spree-to-double-headcount-by-december/articleshow/77136542.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
July 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Osmania University to hold psychology exams||HYDERABAD: In a surprise move, Osmania University has issued a notification for conducting exams for professional diploma in clinical psychology and MPhil (first year) in rehabilitation psychology. The examination for the two courses will be held on July 27, 29 and 31 from 10am to 1pm. The notification came at a time when the high court had asked the state government to file a detailed counter affidavit by July 30 on holding exams in the universities. “The examination centres should give the highest priority to health and safety of all concerned by following the protocols for preventing Covid-19 pandemic,” the notification said. The NSUI (Telangana unit), which is fighting the case in the court, has decided to take up the matter with the NHRC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ou-to-hold-psychology-exams/articleshow/77137056.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Congress claims BJP govt swindled Rs 2,000 crore||BENGALURU: The government on Thursday again rejected Congress’ demand for a judicial investigation (JC) by a sitting judge of the high court into alleged corruption in procurement of medical equipment to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic. Congress claims the government swindled at least Rs 2,000 crore. Hours after opposition leader Siddaramaiah and KPCC president DK Shivakumar, at a press conference, alleged seven departments had spent a total Rs 4,167 crore on equipment, ministers repeated their claim that two departments – health and medical education – had spent only Rs 321 crore. “JC for what?” home minister Basavaraj Bommai shot back. “The allegations are entirely baseless. This is not a fit case for JC as there are no irregularities. The government has not even spent Rs 506 crore.” However, releasing some documents to substantiate their claims, Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar said the health department was given a budgetary allocation of Rs 10,032 crore, which was revised to Rs 9,689 crore. “It spent Rs 1,554 crore in April and Rs 1,768 crore in May,” they said. Besides this, they said BBMP and urban local bodies spent Rs 200 crore, while district administrations spent Rs 742 crore under the State Disaster Response Fund and labour department spent Rs 1,000 crore. They said medical education (Rs 815 crore), social welfare, food and civil supplies, education, home and woman and child welfare departments spent a total Rs 1,315 crore. Picking out ventilators as an example, Siddaramaiah said the Centre purchased 50,000 of them through PM Cares Fund at Rs 4 lakh each and the Tamil Nadu government purchased 100 transport ventilators at Rs 4.8 lakh each, but Karnataka purchased one batch on March 22 for Rs 5.6 lakh each. The second batch was purchased at a cost of Rs 12.3 lakh each the same day, and another consignment on March 24 cost Rs 18.2 lakh each. He said this data was furnished by no less than Jawaid Akhtar, additional chief secretary, health department. He also presented a complaint filed by Dr Sarvabhouma Bagali, a former BJP MLA and medical doctor by learning, with the Lokayukta. In his complaint, Bagali says 15 ventilators supplied by a firm were useless and second hand. Another allegation was regarding PPE kits. Siddaramaiah said the state purchased 9.6 lakh kits of which 3 lakh were purchased from a Chinese firm for Rs 2,117 each. This order was approved allegedly by the CM himself. The same kits were available in the market for Rs 330 each. Siddaramaiah said another 3.5 lakh kits were purchased from a Maharashtra-based firm for the same price, but were of such poor quality, doctors had protested, forcing the government to return 1.2 lakh kits. “The government purchased 10,000 thermal scanners for Rs 5,945 each which were available for Rs 2, 000 each even during the lockdown,” Siddaramaiah said. In a rare show of unity, five minister – Bommai, CN Ashwath Narayan, K Sudhakar, R Ashoka and Shivram Hebbar – ganged up to deny the charges. They said the not only did the government spend only Rs 324 crore, but it was forced to buy at higher prices due to poor supply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/medical-equipment-congress-says-bjp-govt-swindled-rs-2k-crore/articleshow/77135851.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Erode||Semester exams cancelled for Tamil Nadu college students||CHENNAI: The state government on Thursday announced cancellation of exams for all college students, including those doing professional courses, and promoted them to the next level in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Final-year students, however, are exempted and they may have to undergo some form of assessment, such as online exams, as per guidelines issued by the UGC. “Students are exempted from writing semester exams (May 2020). They should be awarded marks in consonance with UGC and AICTE guidelines,” chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said in a statement. Except those appearing in terminal exams, all students studying BA, BSc, MA, MSc, BE/B Tech/B Arch, ME/M Tech, MCA and diploma courses have been promoted to the next academic year. Earlier, the state government had set up an 11-member expert panel to finalize the modalities for conducting exams. “The panel had suggested that there was no possibility of conducting exams due to the Covid-19 spread,” the CM said, adding that a detailed government order would soon be issued by the state higher education department. After the CM’s announcement, the department convened a meeting with state universities on Thursday. “The state government has decided to wait for a reply from the MHRD on conducting exams for final-year students. For others, marks would be awarded as per the UGC guidelines issued on April 29,” sources said. As per the UGC guidelines, 50% marks would be awarded based on internal evaluation and remaining 50% marks can be awarded based on the previous semester. The internal evaluation can be a continuous one factoring in mid-semester, internal assignments and other assessments. If the previous semester or previous year marks are not available, 100% evaluation may be done based on internal assessment. Students can also appear for special exams in next semester if they want to improve their grades in any subject. Meanwhile, some universities are planning to conduct final-year exams for students through online mode. “As per the state government’s announcement, there is no bar in conducting exam for final-year students,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/semester-exams-cancelled-for-tn-college-students/articleshow/77137738.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Puducherry||Semester exams cancelled for Tamil Nadu college students||CHENNAI: The state government on Thursday announced cancellation of exams for all college students, including those doing professional courses, and promoted them to the next level in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Final-year students, however, are exempted and they may have to undergo some form of assessment, such as online exams, as per guidelines issued by the UGC. “Students are exempted from writing semester exams (May 2020). They should be awarded marks in consonance with UGC and AICTE guidelines,” chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said in a statement. Except those appearing in terminal exams, all students studying BA, BSc, MA, MSc, BE/B Tech/B Arch, ME/M Tech, MCA and diploma courses have been promoted to the next academic year. Earlier, the state government had set up an 11-member expert panel to finalize the modalities for conducting exams. “The panel had suggested that there was no possibility of conducting exams due to the Covid-19 spread,” the CM said, adding that a detailed government order would soon be issued by the state higher education department. After the CM’s announcement, the department convened a meeting with state universities on Thursday. “The state government has decided to wait for a reply from the MHRD on conducting exams for final-year students. For others, marks would be awarded as per the UGC guidelines issued on April 29,” sources said. As per the UGC guidelines, 50% marks would be awarded based on internal evaluation and remaining 50% marks can be awarded based on the previous semester. The internal evaluation can be a continuous one factoring in mid-semester, internal assignments and other assessments. If the previous semester or previous year marks are not available, 100% evaluation may be done based on internal assessment. Students can also appear for special exams in next semester if they want to improve their grades in any subject. Meanwhile, some universities are planning to conduct final-year exams for students through online mode. “As per the state government’s announcement, there is no bar in conducting exam for final-year students,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/semester-exams-cancelled-for-tn-college-students/articleshow/77137736.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Semester exams cancelled for Tamil Nadu college students||CHENNAI: The state government on Thursday announced cancellation of exams for all college students, including those doing professional courses, and promoted them to the next level in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Final-year students, however, are exempted and they may have to undergo some form of assessment, such as online exams, as per guidelines issued by the UGC. “Students are exempted from writing semester exams (May 2020). They should be awarded marks in consonance with UGC and AICTE guidelines,” chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said in a statement. Except those appearing in terminal exams, all students studying BA, BSc, MA, MSc, BE/B Tech/B Arch, ME/M Tech, MCA and diploma courses have been promoted to the next academic year. Earlier, the state government had set up an 11-member expert panel to finalize the modalities for conducting exams. “The panel had suggested that there was no possibility of conducting exams due to the Covid-19 spread,” the CM said, adding that a detailed government order would soon be issued by the state higher education department. After the CM’s announcement, the department convened a meeting with state universities on Thursday. “The state government has decided to wait for a reply from the MHRD on conducting exams for final-year students. For others, marks would be awarded as per the UGC guidelines issued on April 29,” sources said. As per the UGC guidelines, 50% marks would be awarded based on internal evaluation and remaining 50% marks can be awarded based on the previous semester. The internal evaluation can be a continuous one factoring in mid-semester, internal assignments and other assessments. If the previous semester or previous year marks are not available, 100% evaluation may be done based on internal assessment. Students can also appear for special exams in next semester if they want to improve their grades in any subject. Meanwhile, some universities are planning to conduct final-year exams for students through online mode. “As per the state government’s announcement, there is no bar in conducting exam for final-year students,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/semester-exams-cancelled-for-tn-college-students/articleshow/77137737.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Dehradun||Two killed in head-on collision with tractor||Rudrapur: Two people were killed after the motorcycle they were riding collided with a paddy-laden tractor-trolley in Kelakhera area of district Udham Singh Nagar on Thursday. While one died on the spot, the other succumbed to injuries at the government hospital. According to the police, Rakesh Kashyap (25), a resident of Ramnagar Mandi, and Shyam Pal (22), of Kichha, were on their way to Kichha on a bike, when the tractor coming from the opposite direction hit their bike near Doraha of Bazpur. The police said the tractor was impounded and the driver fled the spot, adding that he will be nabbed soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-killed-in-head-on-collision-with-tractor/articleshow/77134835.cms||Aakash Ahuja
July 24, 2020||Dehradun||Three deaths, 145 new Covid positive cases recorded in U'khand||Dehradun: Three more Covid-19 patients died on Thursday, taking the total toll to 60 in Uttarakhand. The deaths were reported from Haridwar, Dehradun and Nainital districts. A 63-year-old man from Saharanpur suffering from pneumonia and hypertension died after being admitted to the Covid facility on July 19. In Roorkee, a woman admitted for six days due to high fever and cough died during treatment. Roorkee reportedly witnessed its first Covid death on Thursday. At Haldwani medical college, an 80-year-old woman succumbed owing to her prolonged illness. Moreover, 145 new Covid-19 cases were reported on Thursday, taking the total tally of Covid-19 positive cases in the state to 5,445. Highest number of 68 cases emerged from Dehradun followed by Haridwar (32), Nainital (31), Uttarkashi (7), Tehri (4) and Almora (3). Notably, in July, a total of 2,500 Covid-19 cases have been recorded in the state so far. In Dehradun, test reports of BJP’s state general secretary Kuldeep Kumar, four health workers of a private hospital and two CRPF soldiers have been found Covid-19 positive, while in Tehri, four people - those who have returned from Jammu and Kashmir, Delhi and Mumbai - have tested Covid-19 positive. So far, out of the 60 deaths, 19 were due to Covid-19 while others were related to comorbidity. At least 34 Covid-19 patients have died in Dehradun, eight succumbed in Naintal, five in Udham Singh Nagar, four in Pauri and two each in Almora and Tehri districts. Amid all of this, the number of awaited samples continue to soar, a total of 9,003 people are still waiting for their test results, while samples of 2,709 people have been rejected. On Thursday, 50 people also recovered, taking the count of total recovered patients in the state to 3,399 - since the start of the pandemic in March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/three-deaths-145-new-covid-positive-cases-recorded-in-ukhand/articleshow/77134827.cms||Shivani Azad
July 24, 2020||Nagpur||Water policy change contributed to Delhi’s toxic smog||NAGPUR: A study has revealed that delayed sowing of irrigated rice paddy, due to changes in the 2009 groundwater preservation policy, led to stubble being burned later in the post-monsoon season. This caused toxic air pollution in the national capital. The study carried out by Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur was presented during a national webinar on Science-based approach to air quality policymaking in India, organized by Climate Trends on Thursday. The researchers found that the past decade has witnessed increasing severity of air pollution episodes across much of the highly populated Indo-Gangetic Plain (IGP). This is particularly true during the post-monsoon season, when crop residue burning is most prevalent. “The high yield dual rice-wheat cropping system operated across northern India occurs twice per year, in April-May (wheat stubble) and October-November (rice straw). The northwest rice residue burning has shifted later into the post-monsoon season as an unintended consequence of a 2009 groundwater preservation policy that delayed the sowing of irrigated rice paddy,” it states. The study further points out that post-monsoon air quality is far more sensitive to meteorological factors, and the amount of residue burned. It calls for immediate action to provide farmers affordable and sustainable alternatives to residue burning to hasten its effective prohibition. Other papers related to air pollution in the capital were also presented. A team of 14 researchers from IIT-Kanpur, IIT-Delhi, Laboratory of Atmospheric Chemistry (LAC) at Switzerland, Space and Atmospheric Sciences Division, and the Geosciences Division (Ahmedabad) conducted a first-ever study of the sources of volatile organic compounds (VOC) in Delhi’s air. It suggested that while some VOCs exist in the atmosphere and are biogenic, a significant percentage is anthropogenic (human generated) and are a cause of concern. It further stated that burning of solid fuel contributes to 80% share of VOCs in the capital’s air. Highlighting mitigation measures, SN Tripathi, head of civil engineering at IIT Kanpur and member of National Clean Air Programme steering committee, said, “These findings are pointing towards two things — the need for major reforms and the need for moving away from solid fuels. More people should be connected to the LPG scheme to move away from fossil fuels for cooking purposes. Also, we need a rapid transition towards electric vehicles to cut down vehicular emissions and industries need to move towards cleaner and less polluting technology.” Stating that scientific studies provide seamless and the most up to date information on the sources of pollution, director of Climate Trends Aarti Khosla said, “From transport and construction, to crop burning, firecrackers and industry, the studies give a detailed account of contribution from each source. Such granular information should now help to clearly define the health impacts of these toxic elements on citizens. Policymakers have no reason to not take these findings into account for air pollution management.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/water-policy-change-contributed-to-delhis-toxic-smog/articleshow/77136580.cms||Manka Behl
July 24, 2020||Chennai||Semester exams cancelled for Tamil Nadu college students||CHENNAI: The state government on Thursday announced cancellation of exams for all college students, including those doing professional courses, and promoted them to the next level in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Final-year students, however, are exempted and they may have to undergo some form of assessment, such as online exams, as per guidelines issued by the UGC. “Students are exempted from writing semester exams (May 2020). They should be awarded marks in consonance with UGC and AICTE guidelines,” chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said in a statement. Except those appearing in terminal exams, all students studying BA, BSc, MA, MSc, BE/B Tech/B Arch, ME/M Tech, MCA and diploma courses have been promoted to the next academic year. Earlier, the state government had set up an 11-member expert panel to finalize the modalities for conducting exams. “The panel had suggested that there was no possibility of conducting exams due to the Covid-19 spread,” the CM said, adding that a detailed government order would soon be issued by the state higher education department. After the CM’s announcement, the department convened a meeting with state universities on Thursday. “The state government has decided to wait for a reply from the MHRD on conducting exams for final-year students. For others, marks would be awarded as per the UGC guidelines issued on April 29,” sources said. As per the UGC guidelines, 50% marks would be awarded based on internal evaluation and remaining 50% marks can be awarded based on the previous semester. The internal evaluation can be a continuous one factoring in mid-semester, internal assignments and other assessments. If the previous semester or previous year marks are not available, 100% evaluation may be done based on internal assessment. Students can also appear for special exams in next semester if they want to improve their grades in any subject. Meanwhile, some universities are planning to conduct final-year exams for students through online mode. “As per the state government’s announcement, there is no bar in conducting exam for final-year students,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/semester-exams-cancelled-for-tn-college-students/articleshow/77136563.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Trichy||Semester exams cancelled for Tamil Nadu college students||CHENNAI: The state government on Thursday announced cancellation of exams for all college students, including those doing professional courses, and promoted them to the next level in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Final-year students, however, are exempted and they may have to undergo some form of assessment, such as online exams, as per guidelines issued by the UGC. “Students are exempted from writing semester exams (May 2020). They should be awarded marks in consonance with UGC and AICTE guidelines,” chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said in a statement. Except those appearing in terminal exams, all students studying BA, BSc, MA, MSc, BE/B Tech/B Arch, ME/M Tech, MCA and diploma courses have been promoted to the next academic year. Earlier, the state government had set up an 11-member expert panel to finalize the modalities for conducting exams. “The panel had suggested that there was no possibility of conducting exams due to the Covid-19 spread,” the CM said, adding that a detailed government order would soon be issued by the state higher education department. After the CM’s announcement, the department convened a meeting with state universities on Thursday. “The state government has decided to wait for a reply from the MHRD on conducting exams for final-year students. For others, marks would be awarded as per the UGC guidelines issued on April 29,” sources said. As per the UGC guidelines, 50% marks would be awarded based on internal evaluation and remaining 50% marks can be awarded based on the previous semester. The internal evaluation can be a continuous one factoring in mid-semester, internal assignments and other assessments. If the previous semester or previous year marks are not available, 100% evaluation may be done based on internal assessment. Students can also appear for special exams in next semester if they want to improve their grades in any subject. Meanwhile, some universities are planning to conduct final-year exams for students through online mode. “As per the state government’s announcement, there is no bar in conducting exam for final-year students,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/semester-exams-cancelled-for-tn-college-students/articleshow/77137741.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Madurai||Semester exams cancelled for Tamil Nadu college students||CHENNAI: The state government on Thursday announced cancellation of exams for all college students, including those doing professional courses, and promoted them to the next level in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Final-year students, however, are exempted and they may have to undergo some form of assessment, such as online exams, as per guidelines issued by the UGC. “Students are exempted from writing semester exams (May 2020). They should be awarded marks in consonance with UGC and AICTE guidelines,” chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said in a statement. Except those appearing in terminal exams, all students studying BA, BSc, MA, MSc, BE/B Tech/B Arch, ME/M Tech, MCA and diploma courses have been promoted to the next academic year. Earlier, the state government had set up an 11-member expert panel to finalize the modalities for conducting exams. “The panel had suggested that there was no possibility of conducting exams due to the Covid-19 spread,” the CM said, adding that a detailed government order would soon be issued by the state higher education department. After the CM’s announcement, the department convened a meeting with state universities on Thursday. “The state government has decided to wait for a reply from the MHRD on conducting exams for final-year students. For others, marks would be awarded as per the UGC guidelines issued on April 29,” sources said. As per the UGC guidelines, 50% marks would be awarded based on internal evaluation and remaining 50% marks can be awarded based on the previous semester. The internal evaluation can be a continuous one factoring in mid-semester, internal assignments and other assessments. If the previous semester or previous year marks are not available, 100% evaluation may be done based on internal assessment. Students can also appear for special exams in next semester if they want to improve their grades in any subject. Meanwhile, some universities are planning to conduct final-year exams for students through online mode. “As per the state government’s announcement, there is no bar in conducting exam for final-year students,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/semester-exams-cancelled-for-tn-college-students/articleshow/77137740.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Salem||Semester exams cancelled for Tamil Nadu college students||CHENNAI: The state government on Thursday announced cancellation of exams for all college students, including those doing professional courses, and promoted them to the next level in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Final-year students, however, are exempted and they may have to undergo some form of assessment, such as online exams, as per guidelines issued by the UGC. “Students are exempted from writing semester exams (May 2020). They should be awarded marks in consonance with UGC and AICTE guidelines,” chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said in a statement. Except those appearing in terminal exams, all students studying BA, BSc, MA, MSc, BE/B Tech/B Arch, ME/M Tech, MCA and diploma courses have been promoted to the next academic year. Earlier, the state government had set up an 11-member expert panel to finalize the modalities for conducting exams. “The panel had suggested that there was no possibility of conducting exams due to the Covid-19 spread,” the CM said, adding that a detailed government order would soon be issued by the state higher education department. After the CM’s announcement, the department convened a meeting with state universities on Thursday. “The state government has decided to wait for a reply from the MHRD on conducting exams for final-year students. For others, marks would be awarded as per the UGC guidelines issued on April 29,” sources said. As per the UGC guidelines, 50% marks would be awarded based on internal evaluation and remaining 50% marks can be awarded based on the previous semester. The internal evaluation can be a continuous one factoring in mid-semester, internal assignments and other assessments. If the previous semester or previous year marks are not available, 100% evaluation may be done based on internal assessment. Students can also appear for special exams in next semester if they want to improve their grades in any subject. Meanwhile, some universities are planning to conduct final-year exams for students through online mode. “As per the state government’s announcement, there is no bar in conducting exam for final-year students,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/semester-exams-cancelled-for-tn-college-students/articleshow/77137742.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Hyderabad||PV Sindhu stresses on importance of maintaining fitness as kids||HYDERABAD: Recalling her childhood days, world badminton champion PV Sindhu said on Thursday that chances of getting injured in a safe fitness programme was slim and she too had started exercising at a young age. “When I was young...before I started playing badminton, my father used to make me do these exercises. These are basic exercises and one doesn’t need any weights or equipment. Any kid can do them and I can guarantee that no can get any sort of injury while doing these exercises,” said Sindhu. “If a child is going out of breath, he/she can take a pause. Likewise, based on their stamina, they can decide how many repetitions they want to do,” she said. Formally unveiling a scientifically designed physical education curriculum in India - the Suchitra Fitkid - at the Suchitra Academy on Thursday, she said kids can start early and keep increasing. “Covid-19 has created a global health crisis. The cities are deserted as people stay indoors. Education has been impacted and brought physical activity to a standstill. Continuing to exercise and staying fit is a prime necessity. The curriculum is a right blend of physical exercises and yoga asanas and children would love it the most. I have been coming to the academy for my fitness and training,” Sindhu added. The curriculum is authored by Sindhu’s personal trainer Srikanth Varma and present on the occasion were chief mentor Praveen Raju, school principal Deepa Kapoor and vice-principal Trisha Chakraborty. The curriculum is designed to address the fitness needs of students from Grade I to XII. It is compliant with CBSE norms. The regimen incorporates key workouts to fine-tune mind locomotor skills, and includes strength training, balance, flexibility and endurance. The exercise regime is combined with yoga specific to each age group. Sports director Venkateshwar Rao and his team of five instructors will conduct the programme at different levels. Raju said he plans to share the curriculum with schools in Telangana and AP so that effects of a physical education curriculum reaches beyond the school, benefiting countless children in the two states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sindhu-stresses-on-importance-of-maintaining-fitness-as-kids/articleshow/77137125.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Industry rate on land purchase for warehousing and logistics||LUCKNOW: Easing conditions for setting up industry in Uttar Pradesh, the state Cabinet on Thursday cleared three big decisions on land acquisition and warehousing. Under UP Warehousing and Logistics Policy, 2018, land for warehousing and logistics will now be available at industrial rates. Earlier, one had to cough up commercial charges for warehousing, which was four times higher than industrial rate. In a major policy shift in May, the rate was reduced to 1.5 times the industrial rate. Now, the difference has been narrowed down further. “This will make land substantially cheaper for those planning to set up warehousing and logistics facilities in UP. Land which was available at Rs 40-60,000 per sqmt was reduced to around Rs 15-20,000 per sqmt and this will further come down to Rs 10,000 per sqmt,” said Alok Kumar, additional chief secretary (industries). In May, the warehousing and logistics sector was also accorded industry status to cut cost of setting up units. Agricultural land-use change will cost 35% of circle rate as applicable for industrial use against 150% of circle rate applicable for commercial use. Land acquisition by consent, earlier available under Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway Industrial development authorities, has now been extended to Gorakhpur Industrial Development Authority as well. Now, one need not apply to the commissioner with a board-level committee in each authority facilitating land purchase. The cabinet also cleared a proposal to free land allotted for development, where no work has taken place. As per the amendment made in Industrial Development Area Act, if a person fails to develop land within five years or conditions specified at time of allotment, whichever is longer, the allotment will stand cancelled and will be reacquired by the development authority. An official said, thousands of acres of land were lying vacant across Greater Noida and there was a need to free it up for industry and ensure allotment only to those who are serious about setting up units. “For those who have already been allotted land and failed to develop within a time-frame, a notice will be issued giving leeway of another year. If no work kick-starts by end of that period, the allotment will stand cancelled,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/industry-rate-on-land-purchase-for-warehousing-and-logistics/articleshow/77137067.cms||Neha Lalchandani
July 24, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand HC rectifies its earlier order, paves way for use of loudspeakers in religious institutions||NAINITAL: Stating that an order issued in June 2018 banning the use of loudspeakers with sound above 5dB(A) level was an ‘accidental error’, the Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Wednesday modified it, thereby paving the way for lifting of ban on the use of loudspeakers at religious institutions in the state. The modification of the court order came in response to an application filed before the HC on behalf of the Jama Masjid of Bazpur area in US Nagar district seeking directions to permit the use of loudspeakers. In June 2018, a division bench of Justice Rajiv Sharma and Justice Lokpal Singh, while hearing a Public Interest Litigation (PIL), had passed a judgment directing the state government to ensure that no loudspeaker or public address system is used in temples, mosques or gurdwaras without permission and when used, should be with an undertaking “that the noise level shall not exceed more than 5dB(A) peripheral noise level”. A government order was subsequently issued, effectively banning the use of loudspeakers in religious institutions. While 0dB(A) level is the threshold for hearing, a 10dB(A) level is roughly equal to the sound of human breathing. As per law, noise upto the level of 55 dB(A) is permitted in residential areas during the day and upto 45 dB(A) at night. On Wednesday, the division bench of Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe amended the 2018 order, using powers under section 152 of the Civil Procedure Code (CPC), which allows the court to correct a clerical mistake or error. It said that the earlier division bench could not have intended the noise level to be below 5dB(A) as both the Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000 and Supreme Court guidelines state that the peripheral noise level “should not exceed more than 10dB(A)/5dB(A) above the ambient noise standards for the area”. The court said, “The prescription… that the noise level should not exceed more than 5dB(A) is not to be found in any of the earlier parts of the said order of the division bench.” Apart from the modification of the court’s 2018 order, the petition had also sought a direction to the district magistrate (DM) of US Nagar to permit the use of loudspeakers at religious places according to the Noise Pollution Rules. The court, however, held that since the present proceedings were under section 152 of CPC it will not dwell upon the question as to whether the applicant can claim use of loudspeakers at mosques as a fundamental right. It added that the direction sought to the DM to permit the use of loudspeakers “is also extraneous to modification application under section 152 of CPC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-hc-rectifies-its-earlier-order-paves-way-for-use-of-loudspeakers-in-religious-institutions/articleshow/77134841.cms||Prashant Jha
July 24, 2020||Kolkata||Cops, buses and taxis at Kolkata airport ensure smooth ride for flyers||KOLKATA: Beautician Sangita Ghosh was about to doze off on Wednesday night when her phone beeped, indicating that an SMS had arrived. It was from IndiGo, the airline she was booked on to fly home from Amritsar a few hours later. The message warned of possible disruption in public transport at Kolkata airport owing to the complete lockdown. It left her worried and wide-awake. So when she gingerly stepped out of the terminal after touching down at Kolkata, she was pleasantly surprised to find not only metered cabs but also air-conditioned buses ready to ferry passengers home. Cops were present to ensure passengers were not harassed. “By the time I received the message warning of disruption in the city, it was too late to make any alternative arrangement. I was prepared to spend several hours at the airport. But returning home was a breeze as there was no hassle at all in booking the cab,” the Sealdah resident said. Not just Ghosh, even airport officials and airline staff were taken by surprise when they saw buses roll in on Thursday morning. “We were extremely worried about how flyers would commute to the city during the lockdown. Seeing the buses was a huge relief,” an airport official said. The state transport department had initially agreed to provide a skeletal bus service on Thursday, but reversed its decision citing strict lockdown norms. However, the decision was again changed late on Wednesday night after the state and the civil aviation ministry agreed to cooperate on domestic fight operations on lockdown days. A senior officer of Bidhannagar Police said they were in touch with the state transport department that informed them early on Thursday that buses would be stationed outside the airport to ferry passengers. Cops also called up union leaders of metered cab operators and asked them to keep pre-paid taxis available for passengers. There was no shortage of cabs throughout the morning, but the numbers started dwindling by evening. Cops then diverted empty taxis from VIP Road to the airport pre-paid counter to ensure that flyers did not have to wait for long. To further help passengers, cops provided a cellphone number to passengers hiring cabs and asked them to seek help if the vehicle was stopped by police on the way to their destinations. Bidhannagar Police commissioner Mukesh Kumar and deputy commissioner of traffic Dhritiman Sarkar personally inspected the facilities outside the airport and spoke to the passengers. Some flyers, though, said they had been fleeced by luxury cabs at the airport. “We had to pay Rs 3,000 for a 28km ride to our home in Chinsurah,” said Sumana Mukherjee, who had returned from Punjab with her husband and infant daughter. Flight operations were relatively smooth with airlines clubbing a few flights citing poor load. Three flights were cancelled. Many passengers had cancelled their travel plans on Thursday after the lockdown was announced earlier this week. Airlines’ officials said passenger load was down 10% on Thursday but hoped it would improve as flyers gained confidence following Thursday’s experience. “There was a lot of confusion over whether flights would operate and if transport would be available. All that is behind us now. The load during the next lockdown on Saturday should be better,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-buses-and-taxis-at-airport-ensure-smooth-ride-for-flyers/articleshow/77135855.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
July 24, 2020||Dehradun||With no govt guidelines, faithful seek out clerics’ advice on how to conduct qurbani for Eid||Dehradun: Eid is a week away, but with little to no clarity on how the ritual sacrifice is to be done this time, the Muslim community has questions. Does an online qurbani count? Should they try buying a goat online? And, if all else fails, can it be done later? Lucknow-based cleric Maulana Khalid Rasheed Firangi Mahli is trying to offer answers. “Many are asking if they should avoid the actual sacrifice and, instead, donate the cost of a goat. Some want to know if the qurbani can be deferred to a time the situation improves,” said Mahli. So he provides practical advice. “We tell them, follow the rules of the local administration and, if sacrifice is not allowed, make a donation later.” The helpline gets about 50 calls a day from across the country, all by people trying to understand how to negotiate faith and health concerns. The Maharashtra government had last week issued guidelines for Eid, recommending that the goats be purchased online and that, if possible, the sacrifice be “symbolic” this time. In Hyderabad, butchers will be tested for Covid-19. And Uttar Pradesh has all but banned animal sacrifice. In Uttarakhand, there is no clarity on the Covid-specific guidelines. So practitioners of the faith are not certain what they are even allowed to do, especially given the caution around handling of animals after the Covid-19 pandemic. For animal rearers and sellers, it means an uncertain market. “We are trying to connect sellers and buyers. Those who want to buy, send us a description of the kind of goat they want to sacrifice. We get in touch with a rearer,” said Vinay Gautam from pashubazaar.com, an online platform for the sale of animals. Goats have been going for Rs 7,000 to Rs 14,000 this time. “The prices are not expected to go up significantly. The celebrations will be low-ley this year.” At the local level, the difference is already palpable. “We usually travel and buy animals from Rajasthan, Punjab and Delhi in February and March. This time, we were only able to sell only a few animals locally,” Chandra Shekhar, a Nainital-based animal seller, said. Business is down. It’s worse still for butchers who usually do the rounds of households to perform the sacrifice every year. “Every year, I visit at least four to five families for the qurbani ritual,” Feroz Ahmed, a butcher from Lucknow, said. “This year, people are scared and there have been no clear instructions about the celebrations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/with-no-govt-guidelines-faithful-seek-out-clerics-advice-on-how-to-conduct-qurbani-for-eid/articleshow/77134848.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal government nudge to hospitals on patient transfers||KOLKATA: Support for patient-transfer model between private-sector hospitals has now come from the state government, with senior officials backing the idea of one hospital referring Covid patients to another when beds are full. TOI reported on Thursday morning about a few private-sector hospitals’ initiative to refer Covid patients to other hospitals in case their own beds were full. “We support the idea whole-heartedly,” a senior state government official in the forefront of Bengal’s battle against the virus told TOI on Thursday. “The state government cannot intervene in the private sector but Covid patients in Bengal will benefit immensely from this initiative,” he added. “Something like a call-centre facility from private hospitals, which will give Covid patients all the info they need about vacant beds and refer them to the right hospital, can be of immense help in a life-and-death situation,” the official said. Narayana Superspecialty Hospital in Howrah, which has started the transfer model successfully is ready to extend the facility to its Kolkata unit — RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS). Like Narayana, RTIICS, too, will start helping patients get into nursing homes and smaller hospitals in the vicinity in case beds are not available at any of its other centres. “Eventually, we would like to have around 5-6 nursing homes attached to each of out three major units Narayana, RTIICS and the Barasat unit. This will help to create a larger pool of beds and the chances of patients — both Covid and non-Covid — finding a berth will be higher,” said RTIICS zonal director R Venkatesh. AMRI Hospitals is in the process of finalizing a similar patient-transfer arrangement with around 10 nursing homes in city. It will also extend its helpline facility to a 24-hour one from Friday. “The government has suggested a common helpline number for all private hospitals which may not be possible immediately. But we have extended our call centre facility and our helpline will now provide information and assistance round-the-clock. That apart, we are soon going to have several nursing homes that will take in patients whom we can’t accommodate in our three units. We shall provide both clinical and logistical support to these nursing homes,” said AMRI CEO Rupak Barua. He added that around 6-7 nursing homes may start accepting AMRI patients next week. Narayana said it was ready to collaborate with other private hospitals for a bed-consortium. “Samonnay’, our pilot program at Narayana Superspeciality Hospital, Howrah has been instrumental in ensuring some patients get required care by timely referrals. The program has been well received and is working successfully. We will soon be rolling it out at our other hospitals across the city, including RTIICS and build a wider network of hospitals and nursing homes,” added Venkatesh. Meanwhile, another private hospital that has a dedicated Covid unit is ready to join the patient-transfer arrangement. It has started negotiating with nursing homes, which can admit patients who can’t be accommodated at the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-nudge-to-hosps-on-patient-transfers/articleshow/77136572.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
July 24, 2020||Chennai||TN: 84 Raj Bhavan staff test positive for Covid-19||CHENNAI: Eighty-four personnel at Raj Bhavan in the city, residence of the Tamil Nadu governor, have tested positive for Covid-19, triggering fears of a new cluster for the infection. The infected included Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and fire and rescue services personnel. All of them were on Wednesday shifted to the quarantine ward set up on the Anna University campus. Sixty-three others from Raj Bhavan and their family members have been advised to stay under home quarantine with immediate effect. An official statement from Raj Bhavan on Thursday said: “Some people staying inside Raj Bhavan showed symptoms. Testing was done for 147 people, of whom 84 people, including paramilitary forces personnel and fire services staff, were found to have tested positive for Covid-19.” All of these people are now being monitored by the state health department, it added. All of those who tested positive for the infection were working outside the main building. “None of them came in contact with the governor and senior officials in Raj Bhavan,” said the press release. The release added: “As a precautionary measure, the whole area of Raj Bhavan including offices has been disinfected and sanitized by Greater Chennai Corporation health authorities. Raj Bhavan is closely monitoring the situation.” Police and state health department officials are verifying the source of the coronavirus infection. Preliminary inquiries revealed that the infection may have been come in through vegetables and fruits brought by some vendors. A special team comprising police, health and revenue officials has collected details of all those who visited the Raj Bhavan campus over the past 15 days. A part of the team has been specifically assigned to monitor movements of people at the entry and exit gates of the high-security campus. A police officer said the team was verifying to see if any of those visited the campus in the recent past were down with coronavirus infection through physical checks at their residences. It is not clear from where they got it, sources said, adding that most of such personnel on the campus lived in close proximity to each other one infected person could have spread the virus many others. They added that the authorities concerned have been asked to deploy a fresh company of CRPF jawans at Raj Bhavan, but all calls by TOI to the CRPF officials on the campus to confirm this went unanswered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/84-raj-bhavan-staff-test-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/77136578.cms||A Selvaraj
July 24, 2020||Kolkata||Disease at doorstep, old bad spots in Kolkata turn new leaf||KOLKATA: Notorious for defying norms during the first phase of lockdown that started in March, some of the pockets in Kolkata yet again gave on-duty cops some headache but the latter were largely successful in imposing the shutdown on Thursday. Cops put in extra effort at places like Rajabazar crossing in central Kolkata or Pyarabagan in the south to avoid a repeat of the first phase of lockdown a couple of months back. They are now planning more measures specifically for these areas. “It was a day when people participated in the lockdown out of their concerns, even in these trouble spots. For those who still did not listen to our repeated pleas, we will be ready with area-specific micro plans on Saturday and the lockdown days in coming weeks,” said an IPS officer at Lalbazar. He added that on Thursday, most of the violators were on foot.  “Bikes and four-wheelers were almost absent even in these sensitive pockets,” he said. For most of Thursday, the policemen were engaged in a cat-and-mouse game in areas like Karaya in the southeast or Ramlal Bazar adjoining Garfa. To ensure there was no unncessary movement on the road, the cops decided to use the drone by noon. “At some spots, it seemed like a never-ending cycle. We chased them, they fled. The moment we were back to our seats, they were back on the street,” rued an officer at Rajabazar. At Pyarabagan, when the cops intercepted a youth walking lazily, prompt came the reply: “I need to use the toilet. We do not have one at home.” “The same person will give you five excuses — some most weird. But we are keeping their names in the record. If they think they are too smart, we are a step ahead,” said a cop on duty sitting on the lone chair set up beside a barricade. At Ramlal Bazar, cops stopped every bike crossing their way. “Several of them claimed they were going to hospital. When we challenged them, they showed prescriptions nearly more than a year old,” said a police source. A cumulative figure from Park Street and Karaya by Thursday evening was perhaps an indicator of the police effort. The area had earlier seen cops been roughed up at naka points during lockdown. “We have registered 26 FIRs from this area alone,” a Lalbazar cop stated. Lalbazar indicated it was making even more elaborate arrangements for Saturday. “We have extra cops deployed at the divisional headquarters. We might press them into service early in the morning.” According to Lalbazar sources, each police station and traffic guard has formed small teams that will visit all the troubled spots on Saturday. They will provide a status report, based on which a response will be generated, if required. The decision comes after Thursday’s experience where social distancing norms were violated repeatedly, forcing cops to step in. Police though are worried about the two-wheelers that have thrown up a challenge in prosecution in the absence of adequate CCTV footage in this post-Amphan period. At least 20% of CCTV cameras damaged in the cyclone are yet to be repaired. “The excessive use of two-wheelers in the absence of public transport means there were multiple violations. We are sending notices to these bike owners and asking them to explain why they have violated norms,” said a senior traffic official. At night, the traffic police are planning to set up more barricades and propose a zig-zag pattern of movement so that vehicles are forced to cut down on speed. “With the lockdown in place and fewer vehicles on the road, this should not be a problem and we are not expecting a slowdown in vehicular movement,” said an ACP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/disease-at-doorstep-old-bad-spots-turn-new-leaf/articleshow/77135857.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 24, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Fear key to a near-perfect lockdown||KOLKATA: As many as 14,000 cops on road, 886 arrests in 10 hours, more than 552 prosecuted for not wearing masks properly and sanitization of over 50 markets... On Thursday, both Kolkata and Bidhannagar police, along with Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC), pulled out all stops to break the chain of the deadly virus in the city and its suburbs. The cops hit the streets by 5.45am — setting up nakas, sealing the entry points and introducing the combat forces to patrol the city — to make the most of the total lockdown. The KMC, which got a real chance to start working from early morning, sanitized almost 50 odd markets, along with five major wholesale points, across the city. “We had eyed major markets. We could successfully complete the sanitization drive in the densely populated areas because of the lockdown. We have covered also markets in the containment zones,” a KMC official in the solid waste management department said. On Thursday, the cops, too, put special emphasis on the markets. They were present in most of the 56 markets that were chosen for sanitization. Local police were asked to visit neighbourhood markets and put out a status report every two hours. Extra forces were deployed with each police division and an additional DC was assigned to each division to tackle specific complaints of lockdown violations. “We want to cover more areas that need to show some more signs of improvement. We are working on it for Saturday,” said an IPS officer at Lalbazar. Besides sanitization, the KMC health department utilized the opportunity for a massive swab test drive in some of the worst containment areas. Most importantly, both KMC and police on Thursday claimed they managed to carry out maximum swab tests in the city. The mobile testing vans helped them target some of the worst-hit Covid zones like Bhowanipore-Ballygunge, Jodhpur Park-Jadavpur, Behala, Maniktala-Phoolbagan and Kankurgachhi-Ultadanga belts. “The demand for a swab test was at its peak with several ward coordinators called up for group swab tests in their zones. We were not prepared for such an overwhelming response from the KMC ward coordinators. We could reach many places and conduct swab tests successfully,” said a KMC health department official. The civic body’s health department will conduct more swab tests from now at regular intervals, KMC sources confirmed. Besides the main control room, police used three other mini-control rooms to keep track of what was going on in the road. Extra CCTV cameras were deployed at strategic locations. Each police station set up nakas — there were 51 major points covering the entry and exits to the city. “The instruction was clear. You have to show a valid ID or e-pass to make it through. Any vehicle owner who could not produce a valid document was told that he will be sent a notice explaining their act. The CCTVs and drones were monitored to check vehicular movement and trace violators,” an officer said. Meanwhile, Bidhannagar police commissioner Mukesh Kumar toured the entire police commissionerate area with a team of senior officers from 10am till 8pm, focusing on major areas — from where reports of violation poured in earlier — and areas under emergency service like Kolkata airport. The commissioner and his team visited multiple lanes and alleys in areas like Kestopur, Jagatpur, Baguiati, New Town, Hatiara, Narayanpur and multiple pockets in Rajarhat and Salt Lake.  “We also worked in coordination with Kolkata Police to ensure a smooth passage for vehicles on emergency duty. We had provided cell phone numbers of multiple police officers of the traffic department where drivers had called through the day whenever they were stopped on the road and were later let go after our intervention,” said a senior officer of Bidhannagar commissionerate. (With inputs from Tamaghna Banerjee)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/14000-cops-hit-streets-make-912-arrests-to-keep-people-at-home/articleshow/77135859.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 24, 2020||Madurai||Neet case: Student wants CB-CID to return certificates||Madurai: A student from Chennai, who was involved in Neet impersonation case has moved the Madras high court seeking the Theni CB-CID to return his certificates, so that he can pursue his college education. Justice R Pongiappan, who heard the petition on Thursday, sought a response from the Theni CB-CID in this regard The petitioner, who had obtained a medical seat in Theni government medical college in 2019 was arrayed as the first accused in the case. The petitioner stated that he was arrested in connection with the case and during the course of custodial investigation, police collected several documents including his Class X, Class XII mark sheets, transfer certificate and community certificate. Subsequently, the high court had granted him bail and he had complied with the conditions imposed and had also cooperated with the investigation. He stated that he approached an arts and science college in Chennai in order to pursue an undergraduate course. Since the college sought to submit original certificates, he submitted a representation to the police in this regard, however, there was no response. He further stated that he also filed a petition under section 457 of the CrPC before the Theni judicial magistrate court, however, the same was returned stating that the documents were not produced in the court. Hence, he moved high court Madurai bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/neet-case-student-wants-cb-cid-to-return-certificates/articleshow/77136571.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Woman cop dies as speeding tanker hits her bike||MADURAI: A 30-year-old woman constable attached to the Tamil Nadu Special Police VI Battalion died on the spot when a tanker truck hit her two-wheeler on the outskirts of Madurai on Wednesday evening. The deceased has been identified as A Karthikayini of Kallanai near Alanganallur. Her husband, V Anantharaj, 31, is a police constable attached to the armed reserve in Ramanathapuram district. Karthikayini was coming to Madurai city from Alanganallur when the truck hit her two-wheeler from behind in Kumaram village. She came under a wheel of the truck and died. Based on a complaint filed by Anantharaj, the Alanganallur police registered a case against truck driver S Saravanakumar of Kannanendal under IPC sections 304 (a) – causing death by negligence and 279 (rash driving). In another accident, A Karthikeyan, 29, a private finance company manager from Teachers Colony in Mathur was killed when a truck coming in the opposite direction hit at Arumbanur Junction on Alagarkovil Road. He was rushed to the Government Rajaji Hospital, where he died. Based on a complaint from Karthikeyan’s wife Sangeetha, 28, a case was registered with the Appan Thirupathi police station. The truck driver identified as A Pandi, 45, was arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-cop-30-dies-as-speeding-tanker-hits-her-bike/articleshow/77136574.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Madurai||Actors Vimal, ‘Parotta’ Soori fined for trespassing into forest||Madurai: Lead actor Vimal and comedian ‘Parotta’ Soori were caught for trespassing into a forest area in Kodaikanal recently and fined Rs 2,000 each by the forest department. The incident, which took place on July 17, has come to light after photos of them fishing in Berijam Lake surfaced on social media, resulting in an outcry among residents of Kodaikanal town. A complaint has also been lodged with Kodaikanal deputy superintendent of police Aathmanaban to take action against those behind the incident. V Mahendran, resident of Perumalmalai, in his complaint raised questions on how the actors managed to reach Kodaikanal town at a time vehicle movement is restricted due to Covid-19 lockdown. Soori, a native of Madurai, has been staying with his family ever since the beginning of the Covid-19 outbreak. He acted in a few awareness videos asking people to follow personnel hygiene and lockdown restrictions. Vimal is a native of Pannankombu village near Manaparai in Trichy district. Kodaikanal district forest officer S N Tejasvi told TOI that the forest team found them in the forest area and imposed a fine of Rs2,000 each. They were spotted in a restricted area around 11.15 am on July 17. They had come in three cars with the help of local guides and temporary workers of the forest department. After the incident, an eco-watcher and two anti-poaching watchers have been sacked, he said. Tejasvi said that they approached the forest team at the check-posts for permission. But, they were not given permission and were asked to return. However, a team later found them inside a restricted forest area. They were immediately asked to leave the place. At least five such incidents have been reported in the last three months and all of them were taken to task. Local tour guides often lead them to such llegal activities, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/actors-vimal-parotta-soori-fined-for-trespassing-into-forest/articleshow/77136581.cms||V Devanathan
July 24, 2020||Delhi||AI by Delhi student to aid in Covid fight||NEW DELHI: A 17-year-old Class XII student is set to become the youngest contributor to the fight against Covid-19. His web-based application called LungAI, submitted for the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Ideathon competition, has been awarded by the Union ministry of human resource development. Aryan Gulati is the youngest of the five award winners, his application being prominent in the sustainable environment category. A science student of Delhi Public School, RK Puram, Gulati is currently in a dialogue with the Indian Council of Medical Research to validate his application with further testing. His application is a combination of six machine-learning models that not only detect Covid in 3-5 seconds, but also 16 other pulmonary diseases, including lung cancer. “It has an accuracy of over 90%,” Gulati explained to TOI. “Apart from the swab test, what I thought could detect the novel coronavirus were the changes in the lung-like fluid buildup, consolidation and changes that occur when someone is infected with Covid over time.” Gulati’s system takes these changes as factors. The machine learning detects how many of the features match Covid images, and after the matching gives a figure of probability on the presence of the coronavirus. The Class XII student added the features for other lung diseases so that the system could also be used for non-Covid reasons in the future. The website also guides the user in the other logical step to take. “It has the option of sending the detection possibility along with the images to various doctors and hospitals online by using an automatic messaging system developed for the website in case the user wishes to get a second opinion or the option of contacting hospitals in the user’s vicinity,” elaborated Gulati, who hopes to study computer science in any of the Indian Institutes of Technology after this schooling. With his application, the testing need not be confined to the laboratory but can also be carried out at hospitals. “This is because it does not need specialised labs or equipment. We just need a person using a computer and X-ray images to be uploaded,” said Gulati, whose father is in the army. Gulati had been working on this project since March. To arrive at this model, he used verified data freely available on the internet. However, for the Covid data, he approached universities like John Hopkins in the United States and various radiology societies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ai-by-city-student-to-aid-in-covid-fight/articleshow/77136586.cms||Shradha Chettri
July 24, 2020||Madurai||99 test +ve in Tuticorin textile unit, most are asymptomatic||Tuticorin: A textile unit in Kovilpatti has turned out to be a Covid-19 hotspot after at least 99 of its nearly 420 employees tested positive, while the results of 338 more are awaited. It is not known if the infection spread from the unit or vice versa as hundreds of employees from the town and adjoining villages work there. But for a handful of them, the others are asymptomatic. “The unit is closed for three days from Thursday for intensive disinfection. Efforts are on to trace their contacts, test and treat them. We are expecting results for the remaining samples tonight,” Tuticorin collector Sandeep Nanduri said. About 10 days ago, two engineers in the research and development unit who travelled from another district showed symptoms. As they tested positive, their close contacts in the unit were tracked and tested. “We found six others who worked with them were positive,” the collector said. “Random samples were collected from 114 persons a week ago, of whom 21 tested positive,” Sandeep Nanduri said. On further testing 300 employees three days ago, 70 were positive, taking the total positive cases so far to 99. Meanwhile, in Tenkasi district, 18 employees in the office of the deputy director of health services have tested positive in the last eight days. This has reduced the office with a total of 32 staff, which is in the forefront of fighting the pandemic, to a skeletal strength of 14 for more than a week. This has affected the functioning of the department including delaying updation of deaths and positive cases in the district. The first tested positive eight days ago followed by others in the next three days and all of them were asymptomatic. The relatives of some of them also tested positive. According to the daily bulletin, Tenkasi has 1,412 positive cases and only seven deaths, the lowest in the 10 southern districts. Officials said this was due to the delay in updating figures because of manpower shortage. Focus is on containing the spread of the virus with the available manpower, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/99-test-ve-in-tuticorin-textile-unit-most-are-asymptomatic/articleshow/77136589.cms||M K Ananth
July 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Chandni Chowk’s new avatar by November||NEW DELHI: Chandni Chowk is all set to sport a different look by November because the beautification work of the area would be complete by then. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday visited Old Delhi to review the redevelopment work that would give the historic area a fresh look and a new experience to visitors. The area would be fully pedestrian between 9am and 9pm. The redevelopment project, which was earlier planned to be completed by May, got delayed due to the lockdown. Currently, the work on underground electricity cabling and stormwater drain is in the final stages. The redevelopment project, which started last year, is expected to be complete by October end and thrown open to the public in the first week of November. The work was aimed at bringing back the historical glory of Chandni Chowk, which lost its charm due to massive congestion and poor upkeep. Kejriwal, who was accompanied by PWD minister Satyendar Jain, said, “The entire area has been redeveloped. Chandni Chowk is a historical place and its past glory is being brought back through beautification. This will be a non-motorised area from 9am to 9pm. We hope to make it a popular tourist attraction for people from across the globe. We expect to open the place by the first week of November. It was supposed to start in May, but the process was delayed due to the pandemic.” The lockdown caused a shortage of labourers with the capital witnessing reverse migration. This led to some delay in the project. After the government permitted some relaxations in the lockdown, work on laying power cables, stormwater drain, water pipeline and others started with a limited number of labourers. As a part of the project, which is being done at a cost of Rs 90 crore, the 1.5km stretch from Red Fort till Fatehpuri Masjid would be developed into a green boulevard. The project executing agency, Public Works Department, has proposed planting more than 150 trees along the stretch. The work is being supervised by Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation. Watch Delhi govt to restore Chandni Chowk’s historical glory, work to start soon||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/chandni-chowks-new-avatar-by-november/articleshow/77136613.cms||AlokKNMishra
July 24, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Project manager found dead in his room||DEHRADUN: A 36-year-old project manager of UP Setu Nirman Nigam, Amardeep Chauhan, was found dead in his room in Haridwar on Thursday morning. His wife told the police that she had a verbal spat with her husband on Wednesday night after which he went to sleep in his room but was found hanging in the morning. However, police did not find any suicide note in the room. Jwalapur SHO Praveen Singh Koshiyari said, “The victim, hailing from Hathras in UP, was working as a project manager with the UP Setu Nirman Nigam in Haridwar. The body was sent to the district hospital for postmortem and inquiry is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/project-manager-found-dead-in-his-room/articleshow/77134870.cms||MS Nawaz
July 24, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu man live-streams suicide on Facebook||COIMBATORE: A 37-year-old man who ended his life by hanging from a ceiling fan live-streamed the act on Facebook in Tirupur on Wednesday. The Anupparpalayam police, quoting a suicide note found on him, said he was fed up with his life. Police said the man, K Ramkumar, was an alcoholic. A native of Chinnaravuthanpalayam village near Dharapuram, Ramkumar was working as a driver in a private firm and was staying at a rented house with his wife and son. A police officer said the man returned home drunk around 1pm on Wednesday. “His wife was at her workplace and son was at his grandparents’ house. He locked the door and turned on Facebook Live before ending his life. Some people who watched it on FB contacted the Tirupur city police. Ramkumar’s wife, who was alerted by her relatives, rushed to the house. They broke open the door only to find him hanging,” the officer said. The family took Ramkumar to Tirupur Medical College and Hospital but doctors declared him dead. “In her complaint, the wife said Ramkumar had attempted suicide seven years ago,” the officer added. The body was handed over to the family on Thursday. Police have registered a case under Section 174 of CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tn-man-live-streams-suicide-on-facebook/articleshow/77136592.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Madurai||Immunity booster kits a hit in Madurai city||Madurai: The immunity booster kits introduced by the Madurai Corporation, which consists of siddha, homeopathy and ayurveda medicines have become a hit with the residents, with more than 53,000 having been sold in the last one month. The majority of buyers are resident welfare associations (RWAs) and trade bodies, who purchased the kits priced at Rs 100 each and distributed among their members. Each kit, which consists of adathoda manappagu, thalisadhi tablets, kabasura kudineer, zinc sulfate tablet, multi-vitamin tablets and arsenicum album tablets would cost Rs 200 in the retail market. Corporation has also placed order for kabasura kudineer and arsenicum album tablets to be distributed free of cost for one lakh families. More than one lakh families have already been covered and the second round of distribution will take place soon, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/immunity-booster-kits-a-hit-in-madurai-city/articleshow/77136606.cms||V Devanathan
July 24, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Only 34 of 700 applicants turn up to work as swab collectors||BENGALURU: Only 34 (less than 5%) of the 700 people who had applied to volunteer as swab collectors with BBMP turned up for work, prompting the civic body to ask the Civil Defence force to depute 100 personnel to collect samples. Civic officials feel the fear of the virus and lack of transportation facilities are deterring aspiring volunteers from joining work. In all, 1172 people had applied as volunteer swab collectors and counsellors. Dr Suresh K, in-charge of testing, BBMP task force, said people apply online with gusto, but shy away when it comes to field work. He cited three reasons for this: Fear of contracting the virus, lack of mobility and absence of government support. “Many of them are microbiology or medical sciences students and are excited to work with the government, but hesitate as they fear an infection,” he said. He went on to say, “Volunteers are asked to work in different PHCs, which are either on the outskirts or places they are unaware of. Reaching these hospitals is a challenge. There is also the issue of last-mile connectivity.” A microbiology student said he submitted his application in response to BBMP’s notification inviting volunteers for swab collection. The student was posted at Gollahalli PHC near Kumbalagodu on the southwestern outskirts of Benglauru. “I stay in Bommasandra in southeast Bengaluru. I had to travel from Bommasandra to Golahalli, Kengeri about 28km away. Bus connectivity is bad. After a certain point, there is no bus connectivity and during Covid times, it’s risky,” he told TOI on condition of anonymity. The government’s reluctance to come to the aide of health workers, who died in the line of Covid-19 duty, hasn’t helped either. “If we die because of Covid, the government won’t help and our families will suffer. The BBMP needs to assure us help. We will then be glad to work,” said Rajagopal K Shankarappa, a volunteer from Varthur and PG student pursuing medicine. Curiously, the Palike’s advertisements inviting volunteers for the job have been running into lockdown troubles too. “When we advertised the first time, people weren’t able to appear for interviews because of the lack of transportation,” said D Randeep, special commissioner BBMP. The Palike issued another advertisement last week, days after which the city went into another lockdown. The civic body has now requested Civil Defence personnel. “They will be trained and given a stipend of Rs 14,000. We cannot be miserly during such situations,” Randeep said. “They will also be provided PPE, sanitisers and masks. We have requested some private organisations to send their staffs to work for us. All will be paid. With a minimum requirement of 120 swab collectors for our mobile teams, we have been assured that as many as 100 civil defence personnel will join in a day or two.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/only-34-of-700-applicants-turn-up-to-work-as-bbmp-swab-collectors/articleshow/77134911.cms||Nithya Mandyam
July 24, 2020||Nashik||532 Covid-19 cases, 12 deaths in Nashik district||NASHIK: As many as 532 Covid-19 cases, including 415 from Nashik city, have been reported in the district in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of positive cases to 13,759. Eight of the 12 people who succumbed to Covid-19 on Thursday were from the city. The death toll stands at 275 in the city and 496 in the district. 437 patients were discharged from across the district on Thursday, of which 380 patients were the city. Presently, the district has 2,546 active cases, of which 1,576 are in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/532-cases-12-deaths-in-nashik-dist/articleshow/77268984.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Nashik||Hemophilia Society seeks travel facilities||AURANGABAD: Maharashtra Hemophilia Society demanded the railway authorities to allow hemophilia patients with identity cards, to travel free of cost or get concessional travel passes throughout the country.  Mohammed Ziauddin, the vice-president of the society, said, “There is only one government day care centre in Marathwada region, with timings between 9 am and 2 pm In case of an emergency, a patient requiring fresh frozen plasma to stop the bleeding, has to travel to Mumbai or Pune immediately. There are 550 Hemophilia patients in Marathwada and the government day care centre does not have a plasma component since the last one and a half year.’’ The society also demanded the railways to provide free wheelchair and stretchers for the patients on all railway stations as the walk can be life threatening for these patients, who suffer from the non-curable disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/hemophilia-society-seeks-travel-facilities/articleshow/77269000.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Madurai||Kallar reclamation schools perform better in Class XII||Madurai: Kallar reclamation schools in the state have recorded 92.3% pass this year which is higher than that of government schools (86%). Joint director of Kallar reclamation, C Amuthavalli said that 1,505 out of the 1,631 students in these schools who appeared for the examination this year had passed. For the fourth consecutive year, Kallar reclamation schools recorded an average pass of above 92%.The schools were established in Tamil Nadu as early as 1920. Secretary of the backward classes, most backward classes, and minorities welfare department, Dr B Chandramohan, who is also a special officer for Covid-19 for Madurai district said that it was heartening to note that the students of these schools had performed well. “Credit should go to the teachers of these schools who had brought out the best in the students once again. Most of them were appointed based on the teacher eligibility test (TET). Eight out of 38 higher secondary schools under Kallar reclamation in Madurai, Theni and Dindigul districts, had secured 100% results. T Priyadharshini of Govt Kallar Higher Secondary School at Vikkramangalam in Madurai secured the highest mark with 536 out of 600. Headmaster S Sivaramapandian, said the school is much sought after in the region, and he expects enrollment to be high in his school when schools reopen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kallar-reclamation-schools-perform-better-in-class-xii/articleshow/77136630.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Chandigarh||Rs 6-crore rice scam: Punjab and Haryana HC orders Hafed MD to take action against officials||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked Haryana State Cooperative Supply and Marketing Federation (Hafed) managing director to initiate recovery proceedings against the accused allegedly involved in the Rs 6-crore rice procurement scam in Haryana’s Kaithal district and to take action against his institution’s employees who had aided the accused in the fraud. “A copy of this order be sent to the MD, Hafed, Panchkula to draw his attention to the fact that no recovery proceedings in accordance with law appear to have been initiated against the guarantors, who are the co-accused persons in this case apparently on account of the alleged connivance imputed to certain officers of his establishment, so that the needful by way of identifying and bringing those officers to book, as well as for effecting recovery from the guarantors,” Justice Sudip Ahluwalia of the high court ordered while hearing the bail plea filed by one of the accused, Gurbachan Singh. The petitioner was proprietor of the firm, M/s Haryana Agro Foods, in whose favour an agreement for shelling rice was executed by Hafed, Kaithal. It was alleged in FIR No 98 registered by Kaithal police for cheating, breach of trust, criminal conspiracy and related charges on March 3, 2019 against the petitioner that Hafed had procured paddy from the grain market in Kaithal and given 39,735 quintals for custom milling to the petitioner’s firm, but on physical verification it was found that 26,855 quintals of paddy — equivalent to 17,993 quintals of rice — had been misappropriated in connivance with the firm’s guarantors, resulting in financial loss of over Rs 6 crore. However, the petitioner claimed that he was a victim as fraud and defalcation was actually committed by the guarantors. His version is that he is actually a mechanic and had his own business of mechanical works in Kaithal and had no connection with or expertise in rice shelling business. The petitioner said the partners of the firm, M/s Kissan Rice Land Private Limited, Kaithal, had induced him to venture into that business. According to him, Ashok Kumar, son of Satya Pal, a partner in Kissan Rice Land, used to visit him in connection with work of his sheller. The man told the petitioner that his shelling business, Kissan Rice Land, had been shut down as the state government was not giving paddy to the firm. Consequently, the petitioner, who was promised a share in profits, gave his name as the proprietor of a new firm which Hafed would have no restriction in supplying paddy for shelling. The petitioner also claimed that senior Hafed officers were involved in the scam. The petitioner said he had disclosed all these facts to the investigating officer and his disclosure statement is part of the challan papers. The petitioner, according to his counsel, is willing to turn approver for the state. He also claimed that the fraud and corruption of the Hafed officers involved in this case is so deep-rooted that no statutory recovery proceedings against the guarantors have been initiated till now. After hearing the petitioner, the HC granted him bail and ordered Hafed to take action against concerned officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-orders-hafed-md-to-take-action-against-officials-in-kaithal-rice-procurement-scam/articleshow/77137085.cms||Ajay Sura
July 24, 2020||Madurai||Suspended cop taken to GRH to treat neck pain||Madurai: Suspended Sathankulam police inspector Sridhar, who is lodged in Madurai central prison in connection with father-son custodial death case, was taken to Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) for treatment on Thursday, prison sources said. Sources said that Sridhar has been complaining of neck pain ever since he was lodged in the central prison. Prison authorities sought his previous treatment history if any to provide treatment. However, he did not produce any, but continued to complain of neck problem, said the sources. An orthopedic doctor, who visits the prison every Wednesday, checked him and advised for an X-ray. Sridhar was taken to GRH on Thursday morning, where he consulted with doctors. Whether he would be admitted in the hospital or sent back to the prison would be decided on the doctor’s advice and he is being kept under observation through the day, said sources. Apart from Sridhar, nine more police personnel have been arrested in connection with the Sathankulam father-son Jeyaraj and Beniks custodial deaths. All of them have been lodged in the same prison. Meanwhile, the bail plea moved by suspended head constable Murugan was dismissed by Madurai principal district and session’s judge (in-charge) M Thandavan on Thursday. He was one among the police personnel arrested in connection with the Sathankulam case. Special public prosecutor objected the bail citing that he may tamper the witnesses in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/suspended-cop-taken-to-grh-to-treat-neck-pain/articleshow/77136621.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Ghazipur landfill’s height brought down by 40 feet’||NEW DELHI: East Delhi Municipal Corporation claimed to have reduced the height of Ghazipur landfill by 40 feet through regular processing of heritage waste in the past 10 months. EDMC commissioner Dilraj Kaur said that they had installed eight trommel machines to process the waste at the landfill and were aggressively working on biomining. “This has helped us reduce the height of the landfill by 40 feet. We are aiming to install four more trommel machines by the end of July,” she said. The civic agency apprised the lieutenant governor of the development on Thursday. Kaur said that work was being carried out aggressively now as they were successful in making arrangements for full utilisation of the by-products. “Earlier we were facing problem in utilisation of soil (less than 6mm in size) extracted from the waste. But after tying up with NTPC Limited, for supplying soil to fill up Badarpur Thermal Power Station’s (BTPS) fly-ash pond before developing it into a green area, our speed has increased,”’ she said. Ghazipur landfill made headlines in September 2017 after two people lost their lives when a portion of garbage came crashing down. Later in 2018, it was found that the height of the city’s oldest site has reached 65 metre which is eight metres less than that of Qutub Minar’s height. Attempts were made to identify new dumping sites but no solution was found. Then in July 2019, National Green Tribunal (NGT) gave direction to all the three municipal corporations to engage trommel machines as per Indore model, for treatment of heritage waste. The east corporation installed these machines one by one and was able to process 1.3 lakh metric tonne of heritage waste lying at Ghazipur landfill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ghazipur-landfills-height-brought-down-by-40-feet/articleshow/77136629.cms||Vibha Sharma
July 24, 2020||Gurgaon||As BJP chief, Om Prakash Dhankar will take party to new heights: Haryana CM||ROHTAK: Congratulating Om Prakash Dhankar, who took charge as BJP state chief on Thursday, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the former minister would take the party to new heights. He said the newly appointed state president will go ahead and work with everyone for the strength of the party. Khattar also took a dig at the opposition, saying in some parties big opportunities are given only to dynasts, but in BJP common workers are given important responsibilities in the organisation. Speaking on the occasion, Dhankar told party workers his own example was proof enough that an ordinary worker can be given extraordinary position. Thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Dhankar said the country and state has witnessed unprecedented development under his leadership and every section of society was being given an opportunity to improve their standard and income. Others present on the occasion included BJP state in-charge Anil Jain, Union minister Krishan Pal Gujjar, outgoing party state president Subhash Barala, organisation general secretary Suresh Bhat and other state ministers and MLAs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/dhankar-will-take-bjp-to-new-heights-khattar/articleshow/77137088.cms||Sat Singh
July 24, 2020||Chandigarh||HP police to have crime against women register from Aug 1||Shimla: In view of the rise in crime against women, Himachal Pradesh DGP Sanjay Kundu has issued standing orders to all the police stations for creation and maintenance of a register of crime against women offenders from August 1. This new register will be called as Register No 26. At present, there are 25 registers in every police station as per the Punjab Police Rules as applicable in Himachal Pradesh. This will help in keeping track of sexual offenders. In the new register, offences like rape, unnatural sex, molestation and indecent assault, outraging the modesty of a woman, obscene and indecent representation of women, eve-teasing, cruelty against women, domestic violence, immoral trafficking or women or children, kidnapping and abduction of women for sexual offence, dowry death, child marriage, abetment to suicide, forced abortion, child pornography, cyber crime against women and children besides sexual harassment including passing of sexually coloured remarks, sexual gestures/words, stalking and flashing would be registered. Kundu said data of the last few years reveals that crime against women -- rape, molestation, cruelty against women, and cases under POCSO Act -- has continuously been on the rise in the state. He said that although FIRs are registered and after completion of investigation chargesheets are filed in courts, yet the conviction rate leaves much to be desired. He said it is important that those accused of sexual offences are booked and prosecuted swiftly, failing which, the efficiency and efficacy of entire criminal justice system becomes questionable. He said that such offences generally take place in secluded settings, and there are very little chances of finding eyewitness. Apart from this, the shortcomings in investigation and prosecution and several other factors also lead to failure of prosecution in these crimes. Pointing out that any delay or shortcomings in such investigations create agitation, anxiety and unrest in the minds of people, the DGP said the purpose of the standing order is to make investigation of sexual offences in the state a priority and to make police action swift, professional and transparent. The DGP stressed that continuous monitoring of the identified perpetrators is required and keeping a separate register in each police station would ensure that such cases and offenders of such crime are continuously under surveillance of police personnel; and it will also be a database for future cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hp-police-to-have-crime-against-women-register-from-aug-1/articleshow/77137092.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Madurai||‘Upgrade ESI hospital in Madurai to handle Covid patients’||Madurai: Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (Maditissia) has written to the minister of state for labour and employment, (independent charge), Santoshkumar Gangwar to upgrade the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESI) hospital in Madurai and to make it ready to handle Covid-19 patients.President of the association, B Muruganantham said that there are more than one lakh labourers working in various industries like automobiles, food, light engineering, textile and rubber. The IT industry is also coming up in this part of the state, reflecting with an increase in the need for ESI Hospital to treat employees.“The ESIC Hospital here has not been upgraded for a very long time. Apart from the main facility they have only two clinics in the city, which is very much inadequate to cater to the needs of the workers. Our members who are ESI members said that the hospital does not even have the facility to collect samples for Covid-19,” Muruganantham said.He added that workers have been asked to go to the Government Rajaji Hospital when they approached the ESI hospital for testing and treatment for Covid-19.“There is an urgent need to develop the hospital here at par with the state-of-the-art ESI hospital in Coimbatore and to also establish additional clinics near the industrial estates like Kappalur, Uranganpatti and Nagari,” he said and requested the ministry to bring the ESI facility under the direct control of the Centre.Maditissia members also discussed the issues with the director of the ESI Hospital here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/upgrade-esi-hospital-in-madurai-to-handle-covid-patients/articleshow/77136633.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Delhi||Submit data on mock tests for third-year DU students: HC||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Thursday directed Delhi University (DU) to place before it the data of final year student’ mock tests, to gauge the preparedness of the university to conduct the online Open Book Examination. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said a senior official of the university will also be present during the video conferencing hearing on July 28, in case the court wants some clarifications. “On the next date, we would like to know how your (DU) mock tests went. Give us the entire data on the mock test, and how many students participated,” the high court bench said. The university assured the court it will give all the data of the mock tests relating to how many students participated and how many question papers were downloaded and answer sheets uploaded. The high court also asked the varsity to give the data of how many students under the persons with disability category participated in the mock tests. It is hearing a batch of petitions challenging the final year examination of Delhi University, including one by the National Federation of Blind and Prateek Sharma. The plea by the federation has argued that universities, schools, colleges, and other educational institutions have engaged in online teachings amid COVID-19 outbreak, however, no efforts have been made by the government to consider the needs of the visually impaired and specially-abled individuals. The final year examinations in DU are scheduled from August 10 to 31. The high court noted that the Supreme Court is also seized of various petitions challenging University Grants Commission’s guidelines for conducting the final year exams in central universities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/submit-data-on-mock-tests-for-third-yr-du-students-hc/articleshow/77136632.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Bhopal||No pension for gas tragedy widows since Dec 2019||BHOPAL: At a time when the both the Centre and state are extending soft loans and free ration to vulnerable sections of society to overcome the economic crisis during coronavirus, monthly pension of 5,000 widows of gas victims stands discontinued since December 2019 in Madhya Pradesh. Monthly pension of Rs1000 for 5000 widows of gas victims was sanctioned in June, 2010 and the disbursement began in April 2011. An amount of Rs35 crore was provided by the then Union government for the purpose. While the Union government’s share in the pension fund was 75%, the state government contributed the remaining 25%. T he pension was discontinued in April 2016 due to the same reason as of now — unavailability of funds. Following agitation by NGOs working for the survivors of gas victims, pension was reinstated after one-and-a half years, but in December 2019, it was discontinued again. “The pension scheme was for a period of five years. It was later extended by another two years, but now we have no funds to keep it going. A proposal to resume it has been sent to the state government. If the funds are sanctioned, it would be resumed again,” said a top official of the gas relief department. But, NGOs fighting for the cause of gas victims are not convinced. “Pension is given for life. Have you seen pension of a retired bureaucrat, a former MP or MLA being discontinued after a period of five or seven years? How can they do it with poor widows of gas victims, who are mostly 75 years of age or more,” said president of Bhopal Gas Peedit Nirashrit Pension Bhogi Manch, Balkrishna Namdeo. He added that not only the pension, which was the only source of sustenance for the widows of gas victims has been stopped, but also the free ration they used to get, is not being given to many. “After the state government made thumb impression compulsory to get free ration at the point of sale (POS) machine, many widows are not getting ration because in several cases, the machine does not record their thumb impression due to old age,” said Namdeo. Janki, a 75-year-old widow of a gas victim, said she neither gets pension nor ration, which kept her going for years. Bhopal Group of Information & Action (BGIA), which is contemplating moving court over discontinuation of pension, said that it is gross callousness on the part of gas relief department that led to discontinuation of pension to widows of gas victims. “It is criminal. Widows of gas victims are perhaps the most vulnerable section of society that you can imagine. How can you provide pension to them for five years and then discontinue it when they are 70 plus? The state government at least has Rs140 crore unspent funds out of Rs272 crore received from the Union government for rehabilitation of gas victims. What could be a better rehabilitation of old, infirm widows than to save them from begging for food? They could have written to the Centre asking for more money but they didn't do it and left the old widows to fend for themselves,” said BGIA spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/no-pension-for-gas-tragedy-widows-since-dec-2019/articleshow/77135914.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Stung by wasps, man, daughter die at hospital in Mayiladuthurai||TRICHY: A 42-year-old man and his three-year-old daughter, who were stung last Monday by a swarm of wasps nesting in a tree as they were travelling on a bike in Mayiladuthurai, have died. Police said A Inshika passed away on Tuesday at the government hospital in Mayiladuthurai while her father Anandhakumar died at Tiruvarur medical college, where he was referred to, on Wednesday. The yellow banded wasps (syntomeida ipomoea), numbering about 50, fell on the duo from a palm tree and started stinging them leaving them little time to react as they were on the bike. Three others who came to their rescue were left injured. Anandhakumar, of Kadalankudi village near Manalmedu, was a contract worker at a direct paddy procurement centre in Manalmedu. He was heading towards a nearby Chettikattalai village to call an electrician, along with his daughter when the incident happened near a palm grove. On seeing them, a couple, Muthukumarasami and Vennila, and another man rushed to their rescue, but the wasps stung them too. Some passersby noticed the incident and rushed all five to the Government Hospital. The injured are at Mayiladuthurai hospital and stable, police said. Agriculture scientists said people usually panic during wasps attack thereby increasing their blood pressure. When the blood pressure is high, the toxin can easily travel through the blood and paralyse the brain or heart causing death. Anandhakumar is survived by his wife A Sangavi and elder daughter A Pavithra. Based on a complaint lodged by Sangavi, the Manalmedu police registered a case. A team of personnel from the fire service and rescue department arrived at the palm grove and destroyed the wasps and the nest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/stung-by-wasps-man-daughter-die-in-hosp/articleshow/77137315.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
July 24, 2020||Chandigarh||CAT rejects Haryana IAS officer Ashok Khemka plea for Central govt empanelment||CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh bench of Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) has denied relief to Haryana IAS officer Ashok Khemka, who had sought direction to the Union government to consider his empanelment for holding additional secretary or equivalent post at the Centre, which he has been refused. Considering no merit in application, CAT dismissed his plea and observed, “...if he was really keen to serve at the Centre, he should have taken sincere and sustained efforts to fulfil the eligibility criteria. Hence, the case of the applicant that his name needs to be empanelled despite being ineligible in view of the Empanelment Guidelines is on a very weak footing.” Khemka is currently posted as principal secretary in the science and technology department of Haryana government. The CAT order further reads, “Central Staffing Scheme clearly provides that appointment under Union government under central staffing pattern is not a matter of right... These posts are ex-cadre posts in which officers who are members of various specified services including IAS, IPS and other central services are appointed. As such, no individual officer or no individual service can claim any right on these posts.” Khemka had claimed that he had been wrongly denied empanelment for holding additional secretary/ equivalent post at the Centre. His argument was that the eligibility criteria for such empanelment require minimum three years’ service at the Centre at the level of deputy secretary and above, for which he had offered himself on a number of occasions, but was not appointed without any fault on his part. On the other hand, a number of other officers, who did not fulfil the said criteria, have been appointed, he claimed. Contesting the claim of Khemka, the Union government in its reply said that empanelment at senior levels cannot be claimed as a matter of right and it is for the competent authority to decide the suitability of officers for empanelment in terms of guidelines and instructions. He was left out from the empanelment, because he did not fulfil the eligibility criteria, it was argued. It was also stated that the executive record sheet of the applicant indicates that he had worked in state PSEs, but this can neither be assumed as serving at the Centre nor counted as eligibility for the purpose of consideration for empanelment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cat-rejects-khemka-plea-for-central-govt-empanelment/articleshow/77137096.cms||Neha Sharma
July 24, 2020||Madurai||South TN reports 2,079 cases, 30 deaths; 510 +ve in central region||Madurai/ Trichy: The 10 southern districts of the state recorded the highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 2,079 testing positive on Thursday. None of them are imported cases. It was for the first time that the daily tally is crossing 2,000. Out of the total of 35,529 positive cases, 19,372 have recovered and 15,714 are active cases. The 30 deaths reported on Thursday are also the highest in a day in the region, taking the toll in the region to 443. Meanwhile, the central region of the state recorded a record 510 cases on Thursday pushing the tally to 8,595 cases in the eight districts. According to the state bulletin, eight more deaths on Thursday took the total toll in the region to 101. Increased testing and spread of the virus and the delay in declaring results for the backlog are the reasons for the overall increase in positive cases in the south. Madurai (8) and Dindigul (6) reported more deaths in the region. Average death rate in the south climbed to 1.37% on Thursday against the previous day’s 1.23%. The youngest among the dead is a 35-year-old man with Type 2 diabetes mellitus at the Theni Medical College Hospital on Tuesday. A 38-year-old man from Madurai with follicular lymphoma, anaemia and acute chronic kidney disease died at a private hospital on Tuesday. Among the deaths reported on Thursday is an 82-year-old woman from Madurai who died in the railway hospital 10 days ago (July 13). For the first time, Virudhunagar (480) and Tuticorin (415) recorded more than 400 cases. Earlier, Virudhunagar on Thursday recorded the second highest positive cases in the state after Chennai. Tuticorin recorded the 4th highest number after Tiruvallur (416). “The positivity rate on Thursday is 29% out of nearly 1,500 cases. There is a backlog of 7,700 samples and we expect results of around 2,500 cases for the next few days as our sample collection is 2,500 a day for the last three days. However, the positivity rate is expected to be lesser as they are predominantly secondary contacts,” Virudhunagar district collector R Kannan said. Tuticorin collector Sandeep Nanduri said that more than 80% of those who tested positive on Thursday are contacts and only about 10% are fresh cases with influenza like illnesses. Madurai (274) and Tirunelveli (246) recorded more than 200 cases on Thursday. It is the first time four districts in the region recorded more than 200 cases. The four other southern districts that recorded more than 100 cases are Theni (188), Kanyakumari (137), Dindigul (107) and Ramanathapuram (100). Tirunelveli (3,219) and Theni (3,087) are the 4th and 5th districts in the south to cross 3,000 cases. In the central region, six deaths were reported in Trichy and one death each in Thanjavur and Perambalur.The deaths happened between July 16 and July 22. A death at a private hospital on June 28 also appeared in the list on Thursday.The dead include a 37-year-old man from Trichy, a 40-year-old man from Perambalur and a 43-year-old man from Thanjavur. Trichy topped the district tally in the region with 190 new cases on Thursday taking the total count to 2,872. Thanjavur district reported 122, and Pudukottai 111 cases. Ariyalur district, which has kept its numbers low, started reporting more new cases. The district recorded 48 new cases on Thursday. Covid-19 cases were also reported in Karur (27), Perambalur (7), Nagappattinam (4), and Tiruvarur (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-reports-2079-cases-30-deaths-510-ve-in-central-region/articleshow/77136635.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Madurai||Peravurani, Tuticorin MLAs test positive||Thanjavur/Tuticorin: AIADMK MLA from Peravurani, M Govindarasu, and Tuticorin’s DMK MLA and former minister P Geetha Jeevan have tested positive for the novel coronavirus disease. Govindarasu’s personal assistant Ganesan has also been infected and both were admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital in Thanjavur on Thursday. Geetha Jeevan’s daughter and son-in-law also tested positive. They have been under isolation at their residence in Polpettai, Tuticorin. For the last five days, Govindarasu, 70, and his assistant were having fever. The MLA volunteered for a swab test while visiting the corona ward at the government hospital in Peravurani. He had been on home quarantine when the results came on Wednesday. Samples were taken from the remaining family members including the MLA’s wife and son and they were asked to undergo home quarantine. The process of tracing those who contacted all of them is on. Geetha Jeevan said she is unaware of the source of infection and that she had taken all precautions while carrying out her activities. On Tuesday night she had a headache, following which she came forward to take the test along with seven others in her family on Wednesday. When the results came, three of them were infected. She said all of them have consulted a doctor and are isolated in separate rooms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/peravurani-tuticorin-mlas-test-positive/articleshow/77136638.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Shifted OGH patients in water again; Gandhi hospital gasps as power fails||HYDERABAD: A sudden power cut in Gandhi hospital, Telangana’s only exclusive Covid-19 facility left doctors on tenterhooks and patients gasping for breath on Thursday, while a flooded ward at Osmania General Hospital (OGH) shocked patients who had just moved from a dilapidated block for the same reason. Witnesses and doctors said the state-run Gandhi hospital, which is the nodal centre for treating Covid-19 patients and has nearly 200 patients on ventilators, was without power supply for several minutes. Although the hospital has two back-up generators, they did not start instantly due to technical issues. “During the power cut, two patients in the 7th floor developed some complications but were managed,” said an insider. Hospital superintendent Dr Raja Rao said there was a sudden shutdown of electrical supply in Gandhi hospital at about 5.35pm and restored at 5.56pm. “Our generators started functioning by 5.42 pm, within 7 minutes of the power cut, no problems occurred in emergency or ICU areas or in other patient care areas,” he said. While at OGH, barely a day after the state health authorities decided to seal the old building due to extensive flooding, rainwater gushed into the ward where all the patients were shifted. Earlier, rainwater and drainage water had flooded into wards on the ground floor of the old heritage building twice over the last 10 days, leading to public anger over the poor conditions at the hospital. This led to the hospital becoming a hotspot of political activity and ultimately the health authorities decided to seal the building, and the patients housed in the old block were shifted to the new QQDC building. “There is a ramp on the rooftop of the Quli Qutub Shah building, from which rainwater rushed down into the ward on the 5th floor. For about two and half hours we had to work in the flooded ward. This ward was earlier not used, but now patients were shifted from the old block,” said a doctor at the ward on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shifted-ogh-patients-in-water-again-gandhi-gasps-as-power-fails/articleshow/77137317.cms||Amrita Didyala
July 24, 2020||Jamshedpur||Conspiracy to shut Medica, it should be Covid hosp: Saryu Rai||JAMSHEDPUR: Former minister and Jamshdepur East MLA Saryu Rai on Thursday said the government should take a serious note of the "conspiracy" to shut Medica hospital here later this year and stressed that the private healthcare centre should be designated as a Covid-19 hospital considering the increasing number of cases in the Kolhan division. Talking to TOI, the Independent MLA said Medica has the latest technology and doctors will find it easier to treat Covid-19 patients in the hospital. He said shutting the hospital will be a great loss to residents of the Kolhan region. He further said considering the increase in cases in the region and dearth of beds for Covid-19 patients, shutting Medica would translate into further deterioration of the region’s healthcare infrastructure. Alleging a conspiracy in the hospital's case, Rai said the hospital officials told him that they are compelled to shut the centre because of obstacles in the land agreement. He said the state government should facilitate an agreement with the hospital and Tata Steel, which has the land rights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/conspiracy-to-shut-medica-it-should-be-covid-hosp-saryu/articleshow/77136318.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
July 24, 2020||Ranchi||Dictatorial coronavirus ordinance will result in police raj: BJP||RANCHI: BJP has criticized the JMM-Congress-RJD government for passing the Jharkhand Contagious Disease Ordinance late on Wednesday evening, approving provisions of penalty up to Rs 1 lakh and a jail term of up to two years for those not wearing masks and spitting in public places, participating in large gatherings and violating protocols in place to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. The cabinet note, which was moved by state department of health, medical education and family welfare, said the ordinance had to be brought as the assembly is not in session. Jharkhand assembly was also closed for five days on Thursday after a few secretariat staff tested positive of the virus. A government statement said: “At present, there is no Act in the state to regulate activities such as movement of people, wearing of masks, maintaining social distancing, spitting in public places and public gatherings such as wedding ceremonies and other programmes to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The ordinance will help contain these activities.” The ordinance also empowers the Jharkhand government to announce any disease as contagious. However, though the ordinance has the consent of the state law department, its regulations detailing the classification of violations, its penalty provisions and the enforcing agencies, is yet to be notified. BJP’s Jharkhand president Deepak Prakash, who took oath as a Rajya Sabha member on Wedneday, branded the ordinance as “dictatorial”. He said, “This decision is against the poor and will empower the police machinery and administrative officials to intimidate the people. The government must resort to other ways to ensure compliance to the regulations.” Former chief minister and BJP’s legislative party leader Babulal Marandi also wrote to chief minister Hemant Soren condemning the ordinance. “All of us want the spread of Covid-19 to be checked, but doors must not be opened for exploitation of the state’s people on the pretext pf the pandemic. The economic conditions of the people must be taken into consideration before such a decision is taken,” Marandi, who is currently in home quarantine after returning from New Delhi on Sunday night, said. Calling the quantum of imprisonment and the amount of penalty harsh, Marandi said the ordinance will provide a source of income for corrupt policemen in the garb of this law. “There are states that have provisioned Rs 50,000 fine and free masks for those who caught with their faces uncovered. But in Jharkhand, the ones responsible for making and enforcing the laws are not wearing masks properly,” he claimed. Meanwhile, JMM’s Jama MLA Sita Soren demanded a complete lockdown in Jharkhand to curb the increasing number of infection in the state, becoming the latest to join the band of legislators demanding tighter measures. However, deputy commissioners of all 24 districts were on Thursday asked not to impose any lockdown arbitrarily without any directive from the government. Chief secretary Sukhdev Singh chaired over the state’s Covid 19 pandemic situation and reviewed the progress of government schemes virtually.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dictatorial-virus-ordinance-will-result-in-police-raj-bjp/articleshow/77136262.cms||Dhritiman Ray
July 24, 2020||Jamshedpur||198 new infections in Ranchi, 3 die in Jamshedpur||RANCHI: The number of Covid cases in Jharkhand crossed the 7,000-mark as the state recorded 482 new infections (including 79 late on Wednesday) and three casualties in 24 hours until 10pm on Thursday. State capital Ranchi continued to register a massive surge with 198 new infections in the biggest single-day spike in any district yet. All the new casualties are from East Singhbhum district. The virus continued to haunt health workers with more than two dozen medics, including doctors, senior nursing staff and other employees of Rims, the state’s lone tertiary care centre for Covid-19, testing positive. Jharkhand has now recorded 3,390 fresh cases in 11 days, which accounts for around 47% of the caseload. The seven-day doubling rate has taken reduced significantly – the state’s rate is 12.82 days compared to the national rate of 20.04 days. The state’s Covid-19 tally now stands at 7,164, of which 38,43 are active, 3,254 have recovered (including 206 on Thursday) and 67 have succumbed to the infection. Among other districts, Koderma recorded 32cases) followed by East Singhbhum (29), Ramgarh (26) Palamu (22) and Palamu reported a spike in Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/198-new-infections-in-ranchi-3-die-in-jamshedpur/articleshow/77144157.cms||Gaurav Pandey
July 24, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi: Protests against plan to turn hotels in residential areas into Covid centres||RANCHI: A day after the Ranchi district administration selected three hotels in different areas of the city to set up paid isolation centres to increase the number of beds for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients, residents of Station Road area, concerned about the health risks, took to the streets on Thursday morning to protest against the decision citing health risks. The protestors barricaded the main approach road leading to the three hotels in the area by installing and pasted posters announcing a ban on entry of Covid-19 patients in the area. They said that they will not allow any isolation centre in the residential area. The residents also wrote Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan saying they are worried about the risk of infection to the children and the elderly in the 200-odd families living in the area. Talking to TOI, Lakhi Singh, a resident of Kishan Singh Colony, said: “There is just one approach road leading to our neighborhood and it also connects the three hotels -- A K residency, R K residency and Hotel Embassy -- that have agreed to function as isolation centres. All of us use the same road to commute every day we will be exposed to the virus if the hotels are converted into Covid centres.” “There are two shops near the gurudwara in our area where people purchase essentials. The hotels are a stone’s throw away and the whole colony will be at risk of getting infected. Had there been another approach road to reach these hotels, we would have agreed to the decision, but we cannot allow isolation centres to come up in the middle of a residential colony,” said Rajendra Prasad, another resident. Officials in the district administration said they have contacted the residents and a delegation of locals will meet the DC, after which a decision will be taken on the issue. “A few persons in the neighbourhood have objected to our decision. They have been invited to meet the DC to raise their concerns,” Ranchi SDM Lokesh Mishra said. On Wednesday, the Ranchi district administration selected three hotels in Station Road and one near Piska More to be tagged with private hospitals to treat asymptomatic Covid patients. “The isolation centre at a banquet hall near Piska More with 45 beds has started operations and we will soon start the other facilities,” Shweta Ved, executive magistrate, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/protests-against-plan-to-turn-hotels-in-residential-areas-into-covid-centres/articleshow/77136271.cms||Gaurav Pandey
July 24, 2020||Goa||Registrar of co-op societies relaxes curbs on VPK society||Panaji: The Registrar of Co-operative Societies (RCS) has relaxed some of the restrictions imposed on VPK Urban Co-operative Credit Society, permitting the Mardol-based credit society to accept deposits and disburse loans. The relaxations, said registrar for co-operative societies Vikas Gaunekar, are based on the recommendations of the Task Force Committee for Credit and Urban Societies (TAFCUS). The TAFCUS also recommended that the withdrawal limit imposed on depositors of the credit society should be enhanced to Rs 40,000 per month from Rs 20,000. On June 5, the RCS had imposed 10 sanctions on VPK Urban Cooperative Credit Society after “serious irregularities” were detected in the functioning of the credit society. The credit society had incurred Rs 12.7 crore accumulated losses as on September 30, 2019, and a further hit due to the pandemic. “The restriction to accept deposits is relaxed. The society is allowed to disburse loans against deposits of all types,” said Gaunekar. Gaunekar also said that the restriction on salaries has been lifted. When the restrictions were imposed in June, which were applicable for six months, staff salaries were frozen. “The board of directors is permitted to take independent decision as regards to salary of staff after considering the terms of employment.” While enhancing the withdrawal limit, the RCS has permitted depositors to withdraw Rs 1 lakh for medical treatment and Rs 5 lakh for major surgeries based on the approval of a sub-committee. The TAFCUS also recommended that payment of educational fees, hostel fees and other fees from the deposits can be allowed. The restrictions on opening new branches, capital expenditure of more than Rs 50,000 and recruitment continues, said Gaunekar. Given the need to improve the financial health of VPK Urban Co-operative, the RCS has lifted the restriction on external borrowings of the credit society. Section 51 (2) restricts co-operative credit societies from raising funds from external sources which exceed ten times the sum of members’ funds and organisational reserves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/registrar-of-co-op-societies-relaxes-curbs-on-vpk-society/articleshow/77136655.cms||Newton Sequeira
July 24, 2020||Ranchi||198 new infections in Ranchi, 3 die in Jamshedpur||RANCHI: The number of Covid cases in Jharkhand crossed the 7,000-mark as the state recorded 482 new infections (including 79 late on Wednesday) and three casualties in 24 hours until 10pm on Thursday. State capital Ranchi continued to register a massive surge with 198 new infections in the biggest single-day spike in any district yet. All the new casualties are from East Singhbhum district. The virus continued to haunt health workers with more than two dozen medics, including doctors, senior nursing staff and other employees of Rims, the state’s lone tertiary care centre for Covid-19, testing positive. Jharkhand has now recorded 3,390 fresh cases in 11 days, which accounts for around 47% of the caseload. The seven-day doubling rate has taken reduced significantly – the state’s rate is 12.82 days compared to the national rate of 20.04 days. The state’s Covid-19 tally now stands at 7,164, of which 38,43 are active, 3,254 have recovered (including 206 on Thursday) and 67 have succumbed to the infection. Among other districts, Koderma recorded 32cases) followed by East Singhbhum (29), Ramgarh (26) Palamu (22) and Palamu reported a spike in Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/198-new-infections-in-ranchi-3-die-in-jamshedpur/articleshow/77136303.cms||Gaurav Pandey
July 24, 2020||Jamshedpur||Kolhan districts data differ from health department figures||JAMSHEDPUR: Even as the surge in Covid infections continues, data total and active cases, recoveries and casualties released by the three districts in Kolhan division do not match with the figures published by the state health department twice a day. For instance, officials in East Singhbhum – the worst affected district in Jharkhand – said they have a total caseload of 1,106, of which 691 are active, 399 have recovered and 16 have succumbed to the new virus until July 22. However, the health department bulletin issued on Thursday morning said the district has 1,099 cases (698 active, 388 recoveries and 13 deaths). Significantly, East Singhbhum has been the most inconsistent of all 24 districts when it comes to releasing figures on time. Every morning, the previous day’s new infection figures are revised, adding dozens of new cases.  For instance, the evening bulletin issued at 10pm on Wednesday said the district recorded 38 new cases, but the morning bulletin revised the figure to 109 cases, making it the first time the district recorded 100+ cases. Some sources said the officials in the district, with its headquarters in Jamshedpur, are giving out low numbers in the evening in a bid to downplay the spike in Covid cases here. “If we keep getting revised figures, it becomes difficult to ascertain how bad the outbreak is. Like on Wednesday, the new cases figure was increased by 71 even though the state government bulletin was issued at 10pm. It is hard to believe so many people were diagnosed in the two hours between 10pm and midnight,” one observer said. West Singhbhum district officials said they have 168 active cases, 115 recoveries and two casualties totaling 285 till July 22, but the health department data says it has 57 active cases, 89 recoveries and one death (147 total) as of July 22. Trying to explain the anomaly in the figures, West Singhbhum DC Arava Rajakamal said, “Covid figures change every day and the state-level the bulletin numbers don’t match ours due to delayed entry of the figures. Likewise, adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district has reported 71 active cases, 83 recoveries and two casualties (total 156) till July 22. But the state government said it has 57 active cases, 70 recoveries and two casualties (total 133). An official in the district health department in Seraikela-Kharswan said the difference in the numbers is confusing for them as well. State health department secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni, said that delayed entry of the numbers is one of the issues that the department is looking into to address the issue of mismatch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/kolhan-dists-data-differ-from-health-dept-figures/articleshow/77136241.cms||B Sridhar
July 24, 2020||Goa||Kala Academy may start classes in small batches||Panaji: The Kala Academy is likely to restart its music and dance classes by calling students in small groups of three to four students and conducting lessons by maintaining social distancing, provided parents are comfortable sending their children. “By August 1, I may take the decision to call students who have already enrolled for various courses,” minister for art and culture and chairman of Kala Academy, Govind Gaude said. The Kala Academy offers courses in music and dance, which students would attend after school. Music teachers have also been urged to guide students through online classes. Gaude, however, said that the approach is not always easy. However, schools and colleges have suspended physical lessons as per the government guidelines. “The courses we conduct are different from schools and colleges. There are as many as 30 students that sit in a class at a time, but in our courses there are only three to four students in a class,” Gaude said. The art and culture minister said that prior to the lockdown, teachers were anyway not teaching all the students at once. They would teach a few students at a time over a span of two to three hours. The Kala Academy wants to therefore conduct classes physically, but with a limited students at a time, while maintaining social distance. “There is ample empty space at Kala Academy these days. We are trying to get the students to be physically present for by maintaining social distance,” Gaude said. He said that this would not be applied for the Kala Academy college of theatre arts. “We are yet to complete new admissions for first year students in the college section. We will be able to take a decision on classes restarting at the college only after that is done,” he Gaude said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kala-academy-may-start-classes-in-small-batches/articleshow/77136663.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Goa||Strict norms in place for 1-day session||Panaji: Goa legislative assembly on Thursday issued strict guidelines for the one day monsoon session scheduled on Monday, including placing a ban on entry for public. Any person or official visiting the assembly complex without wearing mask/shield will not be allowed to enter. “Entry of general public/visitors is banned during the assembly session,” Namrata Ulman, secretary, legislature said The assembly has also restricted personal staff of presiding officers, the chief minister, ministers and MLAs during the session. Presiding officers and the chief minister have been permitted only four staff each, while ministers have been allowed two staff each and MLAs one each. She also said that only those government officers connected with the business to be transacted on the day of session will be allowed to attend. Departments connected with the LAQ for the day and government bills to be introduced have been requested to restrict posting of officials to only two on the day of the session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/strict-norms-in-place-for-1-day-session/articleshow/77136669.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Goa||State moves to boost PPP infra||Panaji: To facilitate uniformity in dealing with public-private-partnership (PPP) and to expedite development and delivery of quality goods and services, the state government has constituted a steering committee under the chairmanship of the chief minister for approval and monitoring. The PPP will encourage private sector involvement in public infrastructure and related services where value for money for the government could be clearly demonstrated, the finance department stated in an order. Members on the committee include minister in charge of the department sponsoring the project, chairman of PSUs/autonomous bodies sponsoring the project, chief secretary, finance secretary, secretary to chief minister, secretary PPP, secretary of the department sponsoring the project, secretary law, managing director of PSUs/autonomous bodies sponsoring the project. The director PPP will be the member secretary. “Encourage innovation in the provision of infrastructure and related service delivery. Encourage rigorous governance over the selection of projects and competition for the award of contract and clearly articulate accountability for outcomes,” PPP director S Shanbhogue said Shanbhogue said that in this regards, it has been decided that this department will do hand-holding for the projects proposed to be taken up by the government departments, PSUs/autonomous bodies on PPP basis. While more complex projects may be handled directly by PPP cell, other projects may be directly handled by the respective departments/PSUs/autonomous bodies under the guidance of this department, the order stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-moves-to-boost-ppp-infra/articleshow/77136694.cms||---
July 24, 2020||Goa||Bisons get trapped in Tillari canal at Hasapur||Mapusa: Panic reigned after a herd of four bisons got trapped in the Tillari water canal at Hasapur in Pernem taluka on Wednesday evening. Locals who have experienced the havoc bisons can wreck on agricultural fields tried their best to get the herd to move out of the canal and into the forest. The bisons come into villages of Pernem taluka from Dodamarg in Maharashtra and damage paddy fields, banana and sugarcane plantations, the locals said. The villagers resorted to making loud noises to chase off the bisons and after much effort managed to get them out of the canal and into the wild. They feared that the bovines may enter their villages and cause wide destruction. Locals from Hasapur said their crops are damaged by bisons regularly. Presently, farmers are protecting their crops by keeping vigil, which they said becomes extremely tough after a day’s hard work. They also fear being attacked by bisons, wildboars and leopards at night. Sources said that wild animals have been also damaging crops in Nagzar, Ibrampur, Alorna, Cansarvornem, Chandel, Khutval and other areas for the past few years. Some farmers have installed solar electric fencing, but even that doesn’t stop the wild animals from destroying their crop. Farmers allege that the “compensation by the government is a farce”. They claim that some of the smaller farmers, whose crops were damaged by bison and other wild animals, are yet to receive compensation. Locals demand that government fence the wildlife areas that share borders with their agricultural fields and plantations in order to end the animal-human conflict.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bisons-get-trapped-in-tillari-canal-at-hasapur/articleshow/77136710.cms||Keshav Naik
July 24, 2020||Goa||Cong: Explore options other than double-tracking||Panaji: Instead of forcing the Hospet-Hubballi-Tinaigat-Vasco rail double tracking project on locals, the state government should consider other options to transport coal in an environmentally sustainable manner, Congress said on Wednesday. Former Congress minister Aleixo Sequeira urged the state to study the transportation systems being used in Odisha, particularly slurry pipe systems and closed barges for transportation of iron ore and coal. “Doubling of railway tracks is wreaking havoc on lives of locals. Residents are being forced to vacate or hand over land for doubling of tracks,” Sequeira said. Accusing the government of being insensitive to demands and grievances of the people, Sequeira said it should focus on bringing in mitigation measures to curb coal and dust pollution. “I would agree to sustainable development provided it is not done at the cost of the common man. There are some measures that can result in a well-managed process, with involvement of locals,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-explore-options-other-than-double-tracking/articleshow/77136702.cms||---
