July 25, 2020||Chennai||Chennai artist gives taboo topics a goofy spin with her comics||Akshara Ashok has a light-hearted take on matters others consider either taboo or too serious to discuss in the open. And it’s this view of hers that prompted her to start posting her thoughts as comics on her Instagram page. The Chennai-based architecture graduate says, “I was interested in drawing since childhood. But when I started my architectural course, I felt the course was tough and rigorous. So, I came up with these posts as an outlet for my creative expressions.” Though Akshara started posting these comics, which describe the day-to-day happenings in the life of a young girl, from 2017, she says she never thought she would become popular on Insta! She admits that even her friends were not aware of her work initially. “But the turning point came with the trial room ordeals of Fluff. It became popular and brought in several thousands of followers,” she says. Fluff? “It’s the girl character in my comics,” she explains, “I named her Fluff on a whim, thinking I would change it later. But I’ve abandoned the idea because the character has become so popular now.” Akshara used to share two #happyfluffcomic posts every day. “But it is down to one post on alternate days now as I get busy with requests for comics for gifting and branding purposes,” she says. Ask her what is the psyche behind her goofy posts, and Akshara says, “I don’t find anything disgusting — be it periods, the female body with breasts and body hair or mental health. While many of my friends are not ready to discuss issues like menstruation and mental health in the open, I express my thoughts through Fluff.” Though she gets hate messages, the number of people who voice out their appreciation of her work keeps her going. “My parents were quite baffled initially to see my work, but they are more or less convinced now and have started appreciating my work and thoughts,” she adds. So, has she done any posts about the pandemic? “I haven’t done any on coronavirus, but Fluff has been discussing bushy eyebrows during this time,” she signs off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-artist-gives-taboo-topics-a-goofy-spin-with-her-comics/articleshow/77155257.cms||Sindhu Vijayakumar
July 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Eight deaths, 1,640 new Covid-19 cases in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Covid-19 cases continued to rise sharply in Telangana on Friday, with 1,640 new cases and eight deaths being reported, taking the tally of positive cases in the state to 52,466 and deaths to 455. Out of the fresh cases, 683 were reported from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), followed by Ranga Reddy and Sangareddy districts with 135 and 102 cases respectively. A state government bulletin said 40,334 (76.8 per cent) people have recovered so far, while 11,677 (22.1 per cent) were under treatment. The bulletin said 15,445 samples were tested on Friday. Cumulatively, 3,37,771 samples have been tested. It said the tests per million population was 8,444 while the cumulative sample positivity rate was 15.5 per cent. With the state government ramping up testing, the cumulative sample positivity rate has been on the decline since the last several days. The number of vacant isolation beds, oxygen beds and ICU beds was 10,918 and 2,917 and 1,381 respectively. The number of government Covid-19 hospitals was 61 and that of earmarked Covid-19 beds was 17,081, it said. The bulletin said the government has made elaborate arrangements for treating Covid-19 patients and that sufficient beds are available in government hospitals. It said people can contact 9154170960 on Whatsapp for any grievances pertaining to private hospitals/laboratories. Meanwhile, an official release said Union Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba held a video conference with nine states and took stock of the prevailing COVID-19 situation. He reiterated the need for increased testing, systematic enforcement of containment measures, clinical management and increased communication through awareness campaigns, it said. Telangana Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar said the state government has made significant improvement in testing, tracing, isolation and quarantine measures and also in enhancing human resources and ramping up infrastructure, the release added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eight-deaths-1640-new-covid-19-cases-in-telangana/articleshow/77157803.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar floods: Gandak river breaches its embankment at three places||PATNA: Flood situation worsened in north Bihar on Friday following breaches in the embankment of Gandak river at three places- two in Gopalganj and one in East Champaran- and suspension of train movement on Samastipur- Darbhanga line. The population affected by the floods in as many as 10 districts in north Bihar also surged from 7.6 lakhs on Thursday to 9.6 lakhs spread over 74 blocks. The swollen Gandak breached its embankment near Devapur and Sarfara villages under Barauli block and Puraini under Majha block in Gopalganj district and 160 feet of the left embankment at Bhawanipur village under Sangrampur police station in East Champaran. Video of River Gandak at #Rewaghat in #Muzaffarpur District #Bihar taken on 24July 2020 at 1800 hrs when HFL was cr… https://t.co/4FrTavaXq3— Central Water Commission Official Flood Forecast (@CWCOfficial_FF) 1595597396000Water resources department minister Sanjay Kumar Jha along with department’s secretary Sanjeev Hans and principal secretary (disaster management) Pratyaya Amrit went on an aerial survey of damaged embankment at all three places. Jha told this newspaper on Friday evening that there have been no reports of any loss of human life or livestock due to Thursday night breaches in the embankments of the river. “It's true that floodwaters have entered nearby villages following seepage and subsequent breaches in the embankments. However, there have been no reports of any loss of human life so far,” he added. Attributing the reason behind the breaches to an unprecedented flow of water in the river Gandak from Nepal side, the minister said that the high pressure of water caused breaches in the embankments in the two neighbouring districts. A little over 5.36 lakh cusec of water was discharged from the Nepal side in the river. “But engineers of the department as well as officials of the district administration are engaged in the repair work,” he said, adding that the traffic on important roads would be restored as early as possible. Meanwhile, huge discharge of floodwaters in the river Gandak and subsequent breaches in embankments at two places in Gopalganj district- Pakaha and Dewapur stalled the vehicular traffic on National Highway-28 connecting Delhi with Assam. Gopalganj district magistrate Arshad Aziz said on Friday that the movement of vehicles on the NH-28 was stopped early on Friday morning as a precautionary measure. “There is strong pressure of floodwater on the road near Dumaria Ghat bridge on the river Gandak. Officials are monitoring the situation constantly,” he told this newspaper over the phone. The district administration's move to stop vehicular traffic on the NH-28, which is part of the East-West Corridor, has led to a 22-km long queue of vehicles, mostly carrying goods. The old bridge at Dumaria Ghat over Gandak connects Gopalganj with East Champaran district and Muzaffarpur. On an average, around 40,000 to 50,000 vehicles crossed the Dumaria Ghat bridge every day. Authoritative sources that at some places more than one-metre flood water was seen above the roads. However, the current in the flow of water was missing and it was static in most parts of the flood-affected region. Roads apart, train movements were suspended on Darbhanga – Samastipur section under Samastipur division of East Central Railways (ECR) from 7.05am on Friday after rise in the flood water level at Hayaghat rail bridge. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said railways took the decision after floodwaters nearly touched Hayaghat rail bridge. “Railways has kept relief materials in readiness at all vulnerable places particularly nearby major rail bridges located in Samatsipur division of the ECR,” the CPRO said. With regard to water level in rivers, Bagmati and Adhwara group of rivers were flowing above corresponding danger level at all 10 flood gauges in Sitamarhi, Madhubani, Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur and Samastipur districts. Kamla Balan was flowing above the corresponding danger level at two flood gauges in Madhubani on the fifth consecutive day on Friday. Burhi Gandak, Lalbakeya and Khiroi rivers were also flowing danger level at several places in north Bihar. Kosi was also flowing above the danger level at four places in Supual, Khagaria and Bhagalpur districts. The stiffest challenge for the WRD officials was that people living inside embankments didn't evacuate their houses earlier and shifted to safer places despite repeated instructions from the department. “We did mike in the affected areas but nobody paid heed to the instructions,” said a senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-floods-gandak-breaches-its-embankment-at-three-places/articleshow/77157777.cms||Ramashankar
July 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Cops roll out patrol vehicles to rescue women facing abuse||HYDERABAD: Cyberabad police has launched a pilot project deploying three exclusive patrol vehicles to rescue women facing domestic violence and sexual abuse. In the new system, the moment a distress call is received on dial-100, cops assigned to these vehicles swing into action. Police believe that swift reaction time is crucial to save the victim. The patrolling vehicles are set to be made available at Jagathgirigutta, Miyapur and Rajendranagar police stations. Based on the results, the project would be extended to other areas in Cyberabad. In each of these vehicles, there will be one woman constable along with two other policemen. Whenever a woman dials 100, the local police would be alerted about the situation. “If the caller is a woman, who is in need of urgent help, the lady constable on the nearby patrolling vehicle will reach out to her. She will talk to the victim and do the needful with the help of her colleagues on the patrolling team,” said Cyberabad commissioner VC Sajjanar. The rescued person will be counselled and necessary action initiated against the accused. In 2019, the total number of cases registered in the city under crime against women were 2,828. Officials said that the decision to start the exclusive patrol vehicle for women was taken after witnessing a rapid surge in domestic violence cases during the lockdown. “During the lockdown, there were less eve-teasing and stalking cases. However, majority of cases regarding women were related to domestic violence. In an effort to address any complaint regarding crimes against women, a decision was taken to start 24x7 dedicated patrol vehicle. Our personnel will work in three shifts,” said deputy commissioner of police, Anasuya. As of now, police claim that the response time of patrolling parties is generally between five and seven minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-roll-out-patrol-vehicles-to-rescue-women-facing-abuse/articleshow/77157455.cms||Srinath Vudali
July 25, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Govt doctors to work in Covid hospitals run by private parties||BHUBANESWAR: Govt doctors will work in Covid hospitals run by private parties in exigency, the state government said on Friday. Doctors who are in the first two years of service after completion of post-graduation have to do at least one-month duty in Covid hospitals. Government sources said while doing post-graduation, the medicos sign a bond to work for the government for at least two years: one year in a medical college and one year in any government hospital. After completion of their PG courses, currently, 447 such doctors have been working in various government hospitals and medical colleges for fulfilling their bond condition, which is called ‘bond service.’ The government has decided to use them in Covid care to meet the shortfall of doctors. A notification issued by the health department said the specialists on bond service shall be engaged in Covid duty for 14 days and will remain in quarantine for the next 14 days. Each doctor shall be engaged in such rotation for one month. “In view of the pandemic leading to the detection of more number of positive cases and increase in death trend, the services of more specialists in different fields have become inevitable,” the government order said even as a total number of positive cases in the state mounted to 22,693 and deaths increased to 120. While sending doctors on requisition, the principals have to ensure that functioning of the medical colleges are not hampered. The district administrations will place requisition of specialists with the medical colleges where these doctors have been working. The principal of the medical colleges will prepare the list of such doctors on ration basis. Teams comprising anaesthesia, pulmonary medicine and general medicine would be prepared for deployment in Covid hospitals. Depending on the need, the notification said the requisitioned doctors may to work in Covid care centres and Covid hospitals run by private parties. Notably, the state government has tied with private medical colleges such as KIMS, SUM and HiTech to run dedicated Covid hospitals from their premises and in various other buildings. While the patients get free treatment in such facilities, the government reimburses the cost to these private parties. The government has established 35 Covid hospitals having around 6,000 beds besides Covid care centres and Covid care homes having total more than 64,000 beds.  A PG doctor pleading anonymity said though they are not averse to work for Covid care, the government should deploy them in government-run facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/odisha-govt-doctors-will-work-in-covid-hospitals-run-by-private-parties/articleshow/77157978.cms||Ashok Pradhan
July 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||CCC/CCC+ exam: Gujarat govt extends last date||Ahmedabad: Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani has extended the last date for clearing the compulsory CCC/CCC+ eligibility tests for state government officers and employees for higher pay-scale and promotion till December 31, 2020. This was in response to the request of different employees associations, including State Primary Teachers Association. The state government had introduced these compulsory tests in 2007 and the last date to pass was April 30, 2016. The karma yogis who had joined the government service between 1975 and 1985 and are due for retirement now will also be entitled to higher pay-scale and even in pension. This decision will benefit thousands of employees and officers belonging to different cadres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ccc/ccc-exam-gujarat-govt-extends-last-date/articleshow/77158309.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
July 25, 2020||Noida||UP: 'Axle-gang' members deflate tyres on expressways to loot, attack commuters||NOIDA: The 'axle-gang', which was behind the most sensational robbery and gang-rape on Jewar-Bulandshahr road, has now switched to placing nails on the expressways to deflate tyres of car-borne commuters and attack them at desolate stretches on the Western and Eastern peripheral expressways. While the gang has been active since the past many years, many of the unreported cases during 2020– especially on the Western Peripheral Expressway (WPE) have come to fore with the arrest of a gang member called Dinesh alias Dinee and the death of his gang leader Bablu in a shootout with the UP police on July 3. The most sensational incident which has come to fore is the loot with an uncle-nephew duo and their driver from Mathura who were returning home via the Kundli–Manesar–Palwal (KMP) Expressway on the night of January 27, this year and the sodomy with the 14-year-old boy. The incident happened around 10.30pm when their car had reached the Kanoli bridge where a tyre got punctured and as they were trying to change the tyre, at least six masked men arrived and took them under the KMP where they snatched Rs 7,000 and phones of the complainant taxi agency owner and his driver. They then took the 14-year-old boy aside and sodomised him. In the FIR lodged in the Hathin police station of Palwal district under IPC sections 395 (dacoity), 397 (robbery, or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt), 365 (kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person), 377 (unnatural offences) and section 6 of the POCSO Act, the complainant has said that as they tried to stop them from sodomising the boy, the accused beat them up and tied them, before leaving them at the spot. The incident took place after at least three other incidents of loot were reported from Tappal and Naujhil police station areas of Aligarh and Mathura, respectively. While the accused allegedly looted Rs 10 lakh from a family after deflating their vehicle’s tyre on the Yamuna Expressway on the intervening night of 23 and 24, October 2019. On January 23, the gang allegedly deflated the tyre of a Baleno car and looted a laptop, mobile and Rs 8,000 from the owners. They also looted Rs 80,000 and phone from a family which was travelling on the Expressway via the Naujhil area in Mathura. In yet another incident that happened in Baghpat’s Chandinagar area, the accused allegedly punctured the tyres of a Creta and looted Rs 50,000 from the complainants. Rajkumar Mishra, dySP, STF Noida told TOI that while the accused would earlier tend to use the axle technique to stop the vehicles- they would either throw the axle to distract the driver or use an in-house "khadanja" – a piece of rubber with nails protruding to ensure the tyre of the car gets punctured but now, they are simply placing nails on the expressways to deflate tyres. "After the Bulandshahr gangrape case, people became aware. While earlier, the commuters would stop at any such sound of the axle hitting their vehicle, most would not stop now. They then started using nails to puncture the tyre," he said. Increased activity during the lockdown?While at least seven incidents of loot and assault with commuters on the expressways have been orchestrated by the Bablu Bawariya gang members, multiple incidents have taken place on the KMP during the lockdown. A police officer from the Palwal police told TOI that during the months of May-June, the accused had become especially active on the stretch of the KMP which falls in Palwal district. According to the Noida STF, they had allegedly targeted a family travelling via the KMP in Palwal’s Hathin area and looted Rs 4,000 along with gold and silver ornaments on the night of May 14. Further, on May 24, the accused Dinne along with his gang members allegedly stopped a Creta and looted Rs 20,000 from the accused in Sadar police station area of Palwal. On June 22, Dinne and others got a Volkswagen punctured and looted Rs 25,000 and gold and silver ornaments from the family in Sadar again. Police arrested Dinesh alias Dinne, 21 days after his gang leader was shot at in encounter with STF in Aligarh’s Tappal The Noida STF on Friday arrested Dinesh alias Dinne (22) 21 days after the leader of the gang was killed in a shootout with the UP STF. The accused who had been involved in the different cases of loot and assault by the Bablu bawaria gang on the expressways has allegedly claimed that his brother Ajay and gang leader Bablu were involved in the sensational Bulandshahr gangrape in which a 35-year-old woman and her 14-year-old daughter were gang-raped by at least seven men on the intervening night of July 29-30, 2016 in Dostpur village abutting the National Highway-91. The STF officers say the accused has given "significant information" about the gangrape that will soon be shared with the CBI, which is probing the case and has already chargesheeted six people. Dinne who has as many as seven cases of loot, dacoity and causing hurt during loot registered against him, was the cousin of the deceased gang leader Bablu. After the arrest of Saleem, Zubair and Sajid, the victim family had identified three more people likely involved in the case in the aftermath of the Mandpura gangrape case. “Three persons had been identified by us after the Mandpura gangrape case came to fore and the accused claimed that they were involved in the case and gave correct details of the case. I had seen seven persons in total but due to dark, I cannot be sure if there were more. They were either seven or more,” the father of the teenage survivor told TOI, adding that the case continues to be heard in the Bulandshahr court and the last hearing was in March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/up-axle-gang-members-deflate-tyres-on-expressways-to-loot-attack-commuters/articleshow/77159199.cms||Shikha Salaria
July 25, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugrammers are slowly turning to markets for festive shopping||With the lockdown having been lifted and the markets in Gurgaon returning to normalcy gradually, shoppers have started returning to some of the bigger markets in the Millennium City. With the festive season approaching, many have turned to their old, trusted markets for their festive shopping, albeit with some caution. Factors like trust in local shops and adequate sanitisation and social distancing measures adopted by malls and markets have helped shoppers overcome their fears of the pandemic. Stepping out to shopFrom the different malls of the city to shops in major markets such as Sadar Bazaar feature prominently among the festive shopping plans of many Gurugrammers. Some prefer places like Arjun Marg, Huda Market in Sector 14, Sikanderpur Market, Banjara Market or even slightly more upscale places like Galleria. "I begin my shopping for Teej and Raksha Bandhan around a week before Teej," says Sector 56 resident Nidhi Sharma, adding, "I did the same this year. My husband was afraid that with the pandemic, we should not go out. But offices are open, malls are open, so why should we stay away?" Ritika Jaiswal, a Sector 43 resident, says, "Even though proper festive shopping hasn’t begun yet, I have still been out a few times, mainly to buy rakhis and gifts for my brothers. Thankfully, the markets reopened in time for me to be able to buy all I wanted." According to many of the shoppers, with the weather turning favourable, it is not a hassle to go out for shopping. 'Online shopping can’t match the joy of shopping in markets especially during festivals'Many of the city's residents say that even though you can get much of the same stuff online as well, they prefer their trusted shops to which they have been going for years. When it comes to shopping during the festivals, Gurugrammers say they prefer to visit shops themselves, rather than shop online. Ritesh Ahlawat, who stays in DLF Phase 1, tells us, "There is a certain trust factor with local markets and with the shops you have been going to for years. That does not exist in online shopping. I have shopped for clothes online but for more traditional and festive clothes, I prefer to go to a market physically." With the festive season approaching, many have turned to their old, trusted Gurgaon markets for their festive shopping, albeit with some cautionAnd with the safety and sanitisation measures taken by shopkeepers and market associations, customers say they are somewhat at ease. Kavita Singhvi, who went out for Raksha Bandhan shopping with her family to Arjun Marg Market last week, says, "Most of the markets in the city have taken a lot of measures to ensure social distancing and sanitisation. There are fewer crowds and everyone wears masks so it does feel safe. All you need is to take adequate precautions and then continue with life." 'Footfall of shoppers is on the rise'Those who haven’t started shopping yet are also looking to head out soon. "I have made a wish list of the things that I want for a few of the upcoming festivals and like every year, I want to head out to the local markets for that. I know it’s still risky but I am prepared to wait a few weeks," says Aparna Gautam, a Golf Course Road resident. While the footfall is still lower than previous years, shopkeepers say that it is gradually increasingShopkeepers report that since people are coming out for festive shopping, they are replenishing their stocks. "It usually begins around Rakhi and continues from there. Although the crowd is less as compared to previous years, but still, the footfall is increasing each day. We are hoping the numbers normalise by September when the real festive shopping begins," says a shopkeeper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/gurugrammers-are-slowly-turning-to-markets-for-festive-shopping/articleshow/77150667.cms||Abhimanyu Mathur
July 25, 2020||India||Rajasthan cabinet discusses governor's six points on assembly session||JAIPUR: A cabinet meeting chaired by Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday night discussed the six points raised by governor Kalraj Mishra for calling an assembly session, sources said. The meeting was held at the chief minister's residence which lasted for nearly two and a half hours. "Discussions over the points given by the governor with regards to calling the assembly sessions were held in the meeting," the sources said. The governor had earlier sought a reply on the six points from the state government, including about the reason to call a session of the assembly for a floor test. The cabinet note to the governor is likely to be forwarded on Saturday, the sources said. The Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government, which is facing a political crisis after rebellion by 19 dissident Congress MLAs, including rebel party leader Sachin Pilot, wants to hold the assembly session to prove the majority. Earlier in the day, the chief minister had said that a letter was forwarded to the governor on Thursday for calling the session but he did not take any decision. After Congress MLAs loyal to Gehlot on Friday held a five-hour sit-in at the Raj Bhawan to press for an assembly session, the governor assured that he will go by the constitutional provisions on summoning an assembly session. Later, a statement from the Raj Bhawan said the governor has sought a clarification on the six points.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajasthan-cabinet-discusses-governors-six-points-on-assembly-session/articleshow/77159884.cms||---
July 25, 2020||India||Goan football slips down, ranked joint eighth among 11 states evaluated by AIFF||PANAJI: Goan football has slipped out of the top five among best-managed states and finished a lowly joint eighth from among 11 associations who are part of the Fifa development project. The All India Football Federation (AIFF) announced results of the ‘Performance Assessment for States’ on Friday with West Bengal, governed by Indian Football Association (IFA), on top. Maharashtra under the Western Indian Football Association (WIFA) was ranked second, while Kerala finished third. Karnataka and Tamil Nadu completed the top five. Goa is the only state which declared football as the state sport eight years ago, but the beautiful game does not appear to be on the right track. If Goa mourned the exit of Salgaocar SC, Dempo Sports Club and Sporting Clube de Goa from the top tier of Indian football in 2016, there was another round of disappointment when the Indian squad did not have a single Goan player for the Fifa U-17 World Cup in 2017. Things haven’t changed. In fact, if the AIFF assessment is any indication, Goan football has slipped even further. Goa has been ranked a poor joint eighth alongside Mizoram, with only Jammu & Kashmir and Odisha doing worse. Before the implementation of the Fifa development project in 2017-18, Goa was ranked joint fifth with Tamil Nadu, while Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab and West Bengal made up the top four. AIFF general secretary Kushal Das congratulated the top three states and said the ranking system was "very well defined and fair in line with the strategic goals of the AIFF.” "The appointment of development officers by AIFF in different states has added immense value. States like Karnataka and Tamil Nadu have shown significant improvement from the previous years and hopefully will soon be ranked amongst the top in future years,” said Das. The performance assessment of states was done on various operational verticals in an effort to “push and encourage the state associations to contribute to the football development.” The assessment system had points for coach education, grassroots, AIFF academy accreditation endorsements, referee’s education and conduct of leagues. Except for state leagues where Goa finished among the top three – behind West Bengal and Mizoram – the state was found wanting in all other departments. In referees development and grassroots, for instance, Goa finished among the bottom-ranked states. Meanwhile, Manipur has emerged a clear winner among states who were not part of Fifa development project. Delhi finished second while Gujarat settled for the third spot. Rankings of state associations by AIFF and overall scores: 1. West Bengal (9.9), 2. Maharashtra (8.2), 3. Kerala (7.4),4. Karnataka (6.6), 5. Tamil Nadu (6.5), 6. Meghalaya (5.1), 7. Punjab (4.3), 8. Goa (3.3), 8. Mizoram (3.3), 9. Jammu & Kashmir (2.6), 10. Odisha (1.3).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/goan-football-slips-down-ranked-joint-eighth-among-11-states-evaluated-by-aiff/articleshow/77160191.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
July 25, 2020||Kolkata||Quarantined pet parents in a dilemma as rescuers, creches wary of assisting them||Ever since her father’s demise, Paushali Sengupta* has been living in her Belgachia apartment with her mother Namita and their two dogs. In June, the mother-daughter duo tested positive for COVID-19 and had to be shifted to a hospital. But more than their own health, they were worried about Luchi and Lonka – a golden retriever and a Chihuahua. “We struggled to find someone to take care of them in our absence. Most creches were closed and the ones open would not take them in because we were infected,” said Paushali, who finally convinced a relative to look after the dogs for a month. With COVID-19 cases steadily rising in the city, several pet owners are facing a similar dilemma. While they get transferred to a hospital or go for self-isolation, their beloved pets, including dogs, birds and fish, stare at an uncertain future. No place for city pets With practically nowhere to go, the fate of pets belonging to families with positive cases depends on kind-hearted souls. A Rajarhat-based couple brought home Lucy, a Labrador, last year. In June, the man went for a home treatment after testing positive for COVID-19 and his wife went into self-isolation. This took a toll on Lucy, who is still a puppy. “We’ve always given him homemade food. But after a few days of falling sick, we were out of chicken. We couldn’t go to the market and there were some issues related to deliveries as well. Finally, we were lucky to find a local animal rescuer who helped us by regularly sending dog food for Lucy,” said the man, who didn’t wish to be named. Tiyasha Gupta, a second-year law student, has a similar story to share. After her father tested positive recently, the entire family has been in self-isolation. They now want to shift Pogo, their four-year-old pug, to a safer place for a month. “We don’t want Pogo to live in an infectious environment. Though he can’t get infected by the coronavirus, he could carry the germ in his body. We had a harrowing time looking for a place or person to take care of him. Finally, we found Radhika Bose, an animal rescuer, who has agreed to keep him,” said Tiyasha. Not just dogs, those keeping fish at home are equally worried. Whenever Santoshpur-based Sujoy Adhikari* and his wife are away, they hire someone for the maintenance of their five-year-old aquarium. But when both of them were hospitalised in May after testing positive for COVID-19, no one agreed to come to their house to take care of their beloved marine pets. “After trying out every possible option, I requested one of my doctor friends, who is also a fellow hobbyist, to help me out, and he obliged,” said Sujoy. Dog creches out of biz In the past four months, while many dog creches have shut down, others haven’t resumed services since the lockdown. Explaining the reason behind it, Kumar Krishna Basu Roy, who owns a pet resort near Sonarpur, said that pet owners have been lying to creche owners. “They don’t want to reveal that the dog is from a family suffering from corona. It is important for us to know these details because though dogs don’t carry the virus as such, chances are that they have germs in their fur. In that case, we must sanitise the dog thoroughly before taking them in,” he said. There’s no creche facility available for pets like birds and fish. However, when requested, some sellers do agree to take care of them for a month or so. Rescuers remain cautious Those assigned to take care of others’ pets are facing their own set of challenges. Bapi Das, a professional aquascaper, who has been maintaining aquariums for years now, said, “I certainly won’t visit a house with COVID patients. Touching their aquarium water for maintenance is out of question. Similarly, dog rescuers are not being able to carry out their duties too. Arushi Bhattacharya, an animal rescuer, said they can’t work without basic precautions like PPE kits, gloves and masks. “Many rescuers are not being able to afford these and even if they do, they can’t muster the courage to rescue dogs from homes with corona cases,” she added. Fear leads to abandonment The overall crisis is forcing many a pet owner to abandon dogs. Ananya Roy, a New Town-based rescuer said that since March she alone has rescued seven dogs abandoned at different parts of the city. “There’s a fear that dog hair or saliva might make the infection worse. Many are urging people on social media to come forward and take care of their dogs because someone in their house has been infected," she said. (*Names changed on request)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/quarantined-pet-parents-in-a-dilemma-as-rescuers-creches-wary-of-assisting-them/articleshow/77160810.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
July 25, 2020||India||New security protocol to hit Chinese phone, drug companies hard||NEW DELHI: Chinese manufacturers that have invested in India to set up manufacturing facilities via the foreign direct investment route will need a fresh security check to be eligible for government contracts, a move that will impact phone and computer-makers as well drug and other equipment manufacturers. This is a fallout of the revised guidelines issued by the finance ministry late Thursday evening, requiring bidders from any country sharing a land border with India to register with a “competent authority” to be eligible for government contracts. With an exception made for bidders from countries where India has extended a line of credit or is engaged in development projects, Nepal, Bhutan and Bangladesh would be exempted, officials told TOI. India-China stand-off: Complete coverageAs a result, the order is largely targeting firms from China since those based in Pakistan hardly participate in Indian contracts. Going forward, smartphone-makers such as Xiaomi and Oppo will need to go through a fresh clearance as part of the registration process through a committee comprising officials from ministries of home and external affairs, as well as the department for promotion of industry and internal trade, to be eligible to sell on the Government e-Marketplace (GeM), the online public procurement platform. Read AlsoIndia moves to buy 6 more Poseidons from US for $1.8bnIndia has formally kicked off the acquisition process for six more long-range Poseidon-8I aircraft from the US, while a plan is also underway for fast-track procurement of six Predator-B armed drones amidst the standoff with China. ​​A "letter of request" for six more P-8Is for around $1.8Besides, the fate of firms such as telecom equipment suppliers Huawei and ZTE as well as power gear players Dongfang and China Light and Power is also uncertain. There is, however, lack of clarity on Lenovo, as Legend Holdings, the company that owns the brand, started out in China but subsequently registered in Hong Kong. “This will hit their business. They first need a clearance for additional investments in India and then seek fresh registration to participate in government contracts,” explained an official. In April, the government had put a stop to automatic FDI approvals for Chinese firms and those from countries that share a border with India. Estimates suggest government’s public procurement spend varies between 20% and 30% of GDP, with certain agencies spending nearly half their budget on this. While issuing the new order, the Centre has also invoked powers under Article 257(1) to get state governments to fall in line. Watch New security protocol to hit Chinese phone, drug companies hard||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/new-security-protocol-to-hit-chinese-phone-drug-companies-hard/articleshow/77160780.cms||Sidhartha
July 25, 2020||India||Gehlot holds protest at Raj Bhavan; what about law & order, asks governor||JAIPUR: Rajasthan witnessed high political drama on Friday when CM Ashok Gehlot reached governor Kalraj Mishra’s official residence with more than 100 legislators, including independents. He met Mishra and insisted on convening the assembly session, which seems intended to prove his strength and force the hand of the rebels who are seeking protection from disqualification. The CM and MLAs stayed put for more than five hours from around 2.30pm to 7.35pm, and raised slogans for an assembly session as recommended by the state cabinet. Gehlot termed the protest a“Gandhian satyagraha”. Earlier, Gehlot said, “If the state’s people now gherao Raj Bhavan (for not convening the session), we will not be responsible.” The governor responded by expressing anguish over Gehlot’s remarks. “My only request to you is that if you and your home department cannot protect even the gover nor then what is your opinion about the law and order situation in the state? With that, also tell me which agency should be contacted for the governor’s security? In my long political career, I never heard such a statement from any CM,” he wrote to Gehlot. The decision to convene the assembly is seen to be the prerogative of the government and usually the governor has few objections, if any. But the political subtext to the events has made it a political potboiler. If the assembly meets, it will likely force Pilot and the rebel MLAs to surface as violation of the party whip in the House will imperil their membership. If they do attend the House, it might impact their case in the Supreme Court, which is hearing the Speaker’s challenge to the Rajasthan high court’s directions with regard to disqualification notices. Gehlot and the MLAs, as well as senior Congress members, left for the hotel where they are camping only after the governor assured them that the assembly could be convened once the cabinet replied to queries raised by Raj Bhavan. Congress member Randeep Singh Surjewala said, “CM Gehlot has called a cabinet meeting at 9.30 pm to reply to the governor’s short note of queries by tonight or tomorrow, so that the session can be called at the earliest.” The move to call the assembly is the next act in the political drama that saw the SC order that any high court decision on disqualification will be stayed until it has heard the matter and assessed issues such as whether dissidence can be quelled by threat of disqualification proceedings. This was seen as a setback to Gehlot and Congress and led to the decision to seek convening of the assembly. It is felt that whether or not the dissidents retain their membership will be a key determinant in a trial of strength. Before driving to Raj Bhavan with the MLAs in four buses, Gehlot said, “I do not understand the mystery behind not convening the session. The governor is a constitutional head and he could not have stopped the assembly session from taking place without some pressure from the top.” Gehlot said the governor was duty bound to call a session once the government requested as per a cabinet decision. Reacting to Gehlot’s statements, Shekhawat tweeted, “Can a responsible CM say this to the governor of a state? Gehlotji seems to forget that the chair he sits on is for governance and not for goondagardi.” Leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria said the central government should hand over Raj Bhavan’s security to the CRPF. Clarifying his statement, Gehlot later said, “To say ‘people will gherao Raj Bhavan’ is political language that even the late Bhairon Singh Shekhawat used as CM when he paraded MLAs before the governor (in 1996). Watch Rajasthan political crisis: Hope governor won't act under pressure, says CM Ashok Gehlot||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gehlot-holds-protest-at-raj-bhavan-what-about-law-order-asks-governor/articleshow/77160843.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 25, 2020||Business||Bad loans may rise to 20-year high due to pandemic: RBI||MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has warned that bad loans in banks could rise to a 20-year high as a result of the economic crisis triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic. According to the central bank, bad loans could rise from 8.5% in March 2020 to 12.5% by March 2021 under its baseline scenario, and 14.7% if the stress is severe. In its financial stability report, the RBI hinted at a restructuring of stressed loans going forward. The central bank pointed out that globally governments and regulators have taken steps to reduce the cost of loan modifications/ restructuring to help borrowers affected by the pandemic. These initiatives also obviate the requirement of additional capital against increased risk. “The BCBS (Basel Committee on Banking Supervision) has endorsed these strategies as long as supervisors make sure that banks use them prudently and due disclosures are made to enable market participants to assess the rationale and potential impact of such actions by the banks,” the RBI said. The pandemic is expected to reverse all gains made by banks in cleaning their books. According to RBI data, bad loans steadily declined from 11.5% in March 2018 to 9.3% (2019) and 8.5% in March 2020. The clean-up has resulted in banks using a large chunk of capital. This has resulting in the capital adequacy ratio edging down to 14.8% in March 2020 from 15% a year ago. The central bank’s forecast is based on stress tests that it conducts. Among business segments, the highest percentage of loans that are under moratorium belong to MSMEs (65%), followed by individuals (55%) and corporates (42%). “The financial system in India remains sound. Nonetheless, in the current environment, the need for financial intermediaries to proactively augment capital and improve their resilience has acquired top priority. In the evolving milieu, while risk management has to be prudent, extreme risk aversion would have adverse outcomes for all,” RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said in a foreword to the report. In the report, the RBI said that the pandemic has the potential to amplify financial vulnerabilities, including corporate and household debt burdens in case of severe economic contraction. On the positive side, the fiscal, monetary and regulatory intervention has ensured normal functioning of markets. It also ensured the markets did not freeze despite risk aversion. Watch Bad loans may rise to 20-year high due to pandemic: RBI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bad-loans-may-rise-to-20-year-high-due-to-pandemic-rbi/articleshow/77160894.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Mysuru||Stone crushing units operating illegally in Srirangapatna raided||MYSURU: Stone crushing units that were being run illegally in Srirangapatna taluk in Mandya were on Friday raided by officials of the district administration, along with those from the mines and geology department. The team, led by Mandya district geology officer TV Pushpa, raided the crushing units that were operating in the purview of zones marked as forests in TM Hosuru, Kalenahalli, Gowdahalli and Alagudu villages in Srirangapatna. Pushpa said that the raids were carried out in keeping with the directions issued by Mandya deputy commissioner at a meeting held on June 20. The units were being operated without the requisite licence, she said. “We will have notices denoting that these units are sealed outside them,” she said. Srirangapatna tahsildar MV Roopa, Karnataka State Pollution Control Board Mandya district officer Ashwini, assistant conservator of forests Sridhar and range forest officer Sunitha were among those who participated in the raid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/stone-crushing-units-operating-illegally-in-srirangapatna-raided/articleshow/77153196.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Patna||Met forecasts widespread rainfall in Bihar till July 28||PATNA: Weathermen have predicted more rainfall in the state for a few days from July 27. The expected increase in rainfall activity has been attributed to shifting of monsoon trough close to the foothills of the Himalayas. As per the mid-day bulletin issued by India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday, the trough line is expected to shift close to the foothills of the Himalayas by July 26. The position of trough line close to the foothills of the Himalayas has led to heavy rainfall in Nepal and north Bihar districts. Two spells of heavy rainfall due to such position of trough line in the last few weeks led to flooding in 10 north Bihar districts. The weather bulletin issued by Patna Meteorological Centre on Friday stated that rainfall with thunderstorm would occur in all 38 districts in the state till July 28. The intensity of showers is likely to be higher on July 27 and 28. A yellow warning for heavy to very heavy rain with thunderstorm and lightning has also been issued for north Bihar and districts in south-western parts of the state for July 27 and 28. Yellow warning stipulates that authorities concerned should be watchful for extreme weather conditions. The mid-day weather bulletin issued by IMD also stated that fairly widespread to widespread rainfall would occur in Bihar over the next three days. Meanwhile, Patna and most places in the state received light to moderate showers on Friday. Weathermen have claimed that state capital and several other districts along the Ganga would witness heavy rainfall over the next 24 hours. The showers are expected to continue across the state till July 28. An official at Patna Meteorological Centre attributed the showers to monsoon trough line, which was passing across Patna on Friday along with a cyclonic circulation over Jharkhand. “Light to moderate rainfall is expected at most places in the state over the next 24 hours along with heavy rainfall at one or two places in Patna and few other districts adjacent to Ganga,” she said. Bihar has been witnessing abundant rainfall this monsoon. The state has received 55% surplus rainfall so far this year. As far as the data available with IMD, Bihar received 680.4mm of rainfall from June 1 to July 24 against the normal range of 439.4mm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/met-forecasts-widespread-rainfall-in-state-till-july-28/articleshow/77155017.cms||Piyush Tripathi
July 25, 2020||Patna||Patna: 21-year-old Covid-19 patient kills self||PATNA: A 21-year-old youth with Covid-19 committed suicide by jumping from the third floor of AIIMS-Patna on Friday. He was undergoing treatment at the hospital. The deceased, Rohit Kumar, belonged to Bihta in rural Patna. He was the youngest of the five siblings. He was a final year student. His father Brajesh Kumar, a railway employee, said he had last conversation with his son over the phone between 3pm and 4pm. “Rohit told me he was feeling weak and suffering from loose motion. I told him he will recover soon. But I never thought he would take such an extreme step,” said Brajesh. AIIMS-Patna Covid-19 nodal incharge Dr Sanjeev Kumar said Rohit jumped off the window in the bathroom of a ward in the evening. “He was admitted on July 20 and his condition was moderate. He had no medical history,” said Dr Sanjeev. However, Dr Kumar said he had no idea about his mental condition. This is the second suicide of a patient admitted with coronavirus at AIIMS-Patna and third in Bihar. On June 22, a 32-year-old resident of Khagaul had committed suicide by hanging himself in a vacant room of the hospital. Though the man was positive for Covid-19, his second report had come negative after committing suicide. Before him, a 30-year-old migrant worker had hanged himself in the quarantine centre at Hajipur on May 20. He had returned from Delhi. However, his report had come positive for Covid-19 after death. The civil surgeon that time had claimed that the man was in depression and also quarantined in Delhi before returning to state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/21-year-old-covid-19-patient-kills-self/articleshow/77156168.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 25, 2020||Kolkata||Fourth cop death in kolkata as OC falls victim to Covid-19||KOLKATA: The city police force lost its fourth member to Covid on Friday morning. Abhigyan Mukherjee — the senior-most city cop to have fallen victim to the virus so far — passed away at a hospital near Ruby crossing off EM Bypass. Mukherjee was initially admitted to a private hospital in Mukundapur with severe breathing trouble and suspected Covid symptoms five days ago. His first two Covid reports had been negative. The third, however, confirmed he was a Covid patient. Mukherjee, a 1995-batch officer who played a pivotal role in the Kolkata Police Club, was suffering from a few heart-related issues. However, he was considered one of best athletes of the department in the first decade of his service. He had been acting as OC traffic (equipment) for more than a year and was instrumental in getting the signals and CCTV cameras working again after Cyclone Amphan. A resident of the Karaya area, he is survived by his wife and daughter. Kolkata Police commissioner Anuj Sharma took to Twitter to express his condolences. “Extremely saddened to hear about the untimely demise of our colleague inspector Abhigyan Mukherjee @KPTrafficDept. My heart goes out to the family of this well known, vibrant & hardworking officer. #Salute #CoronaMartyr #TeamKP,” he tweeted. Kolkata Police, too, took to its Facebook account to express their condolences. The department assured that a cheque of Rs 10 lakh will be handed over to Mukherjee’s family in recognition of his contribution as a Covid warrior. After news of his death arrived at Lalbazar, a programme to launch bio-toilets for traffic cops was cancelled on Friday. Mukherjee’s death is also the first confirmed death from within Lalbazar where he had his office. The headquarters have recently been hit with cases being reported from both the Reserve Officer’s office (the HR department) and office superintendent sections (the deployment section) of the traffic department. While the RO himself has been asked to work from home, several of his officers are on quarantine. Even the traffic control room has reported cops with Covid-like symptoms. Eight cases have been reported this week from the Regent Park traffic guard while a constable from Jorabagan traffic guard has been on ventilation for a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fourth-cop-death-in-city-as-oc-falls-victim-to-covid/articleshow/77157515.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 25, 2020||Kolkata||Counsel Covid-19 patients’ kin daily, West Bengal health dept tells hospitals||KOLKATA: The health department has advised all hospitals treating Covid-19 patients to counsel family members on a daily basis and keep them informed about the patients’ conditions. Hospitals have also been asked to arrange for video-calling facilities so patients can directly interact with their families. While many hospitals already have this facility, the protocol management team (PMT) set up by Swasthya Bhavan found some hospitals didn’t. “We allow patients in general isolation wards to keep cellphones. But for those in the ICU, we are briefing family members regularly on their conditions. If required, our consultants also talk to them over video calls,” said Sudipta Mitra, CEO, Peerless Hospital. Members of the PMT felt that counselling and regular communication could reduce stress on patients and their families. While hospitals that have been treating Covid right from the beginning already have such systems, the ones that recently set up dedicated wards are yet to streamline the facilities. “We have virtual visiting hours in our Salt Lake and Dhakuria units. The system is also being put in place at our Mukundapur unit where Covid treatment facility has started recently,” said a source at AMRI Group of Hospitals. Most government Covid facilities now allow patients to keep their cellphones. The problem persists when it comes to critical patients. “For critical patients, we are calling up families to update them on the conditions. For those in the general isolation wards, we have morning and evening slots when our staff allow them to talk to their families via cellphone provided by the hospital,” said Joydip Mitra, CEO, KPC Medical College. “We have allowed patients to keep cellphones, but we do not have video calling facilities,” said a source at Medical College Hospital. Families of critical patients have to call up the hospital help desk for information. Sources in the health department said the lack of information could result in miscommunication about billing and procedures conducted on the patients. Private hospitals are now taking consent for costly drugs and procedures through emails or WhatsApp. The PMT has also asked all hospitals to constitute medical boards, comprising pulmonologists, critical-care experts, neurologists, endocrinologists, cardiologists and nephrologists, to decide and modify treatment policy for critical patients. “We have set up our medical board for critical patients who need multi-specialty care,” said Subhasish Datta, chief general manager operations, Ruby General Hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/counsel-cov-patients-kin-daily-state-tells-hospitals/articleshow/77157485.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 25, 2020||Business||Tata education trust’s charity in US not income: ITAT||MUMBAI: Tata Education and Development Trust (TEDT), set up by Ratan Tata in 2008, has obtained a favourable order from the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT - Mumbai bench). Donations made by the trust outside India to US-based universities Cornell and Harvard will be treated as an application of income by the trust. Thus, donations of nearly Rs 198 crore and over Rs 25 crore made to these US universities during the financial years 2010-11 and 2011-12 will not be treated as the income of the trust. The ITAT overturned the additions of these sums to the trust’s income, that were made by the commissioner of income tax (appeals). TEDT’s charitable objective was to invest in projects in India or overseas that promote the development of knowledge and expertise in several areas vital for India’s growth and competitive abilities. At Cornell, TEDT established an endowment fund through contributions totalling $50 million to enable generations of Indian undergraduate students to access educational opportunities. A donation of a likewise sum to Harvard was for construction of the ‘Tata Hall’, which would provide classroom and residential facilities within the campus for its executive education programme participants. This would also provide tremendous global visibility for India and Indian business. Section 11(1)(C) of the I-T Act states that income derived from property held under a trust created after April 1, 1952, for charitable purpose, which tends to promote international welfare in which India is interested shall be exempt to the extent to which such income is ‘applied for this purpose outside India’. However, for such exemption, an approval of the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) is required. In this case, at the time of assessment, the CBDT’s approval was not on the table and, accordingly, the I-T officer added these sums to the trust’s income. However, while the approval was pending before the appellate commissioner, TEDT obtained CBDT’s approval (including for the years covered by the litigation). The I-T officer duly rectified his order. This did not augur well with the appellate commissioner and the litigation reached the ITAT. The heavyweight ITAT bench comprising president P P Bhatt, and vice-president Pramod Kumar, towards the conclusion of their 51-page order, had sharp words for the actions of the appellate commissioner. The I-T officer had duly given effect to the exemption granted by the CBDT in respect of payments made to these US universities, they noted. “Yet a hyper-pedantic, even if a bona fide, approach of the learned commissioner of income tax (appeals), seemingly more loyal to the CBDT than CBDT itself, has resulted in this wholly avoidable litigation, which does not only clog the serious litigation before the judicial forums but also diverts scarce resources of the philanthropic bodies, like the assessee-trust before us, to the areas which do no good to the society at large.” The ITAT bench concluded, “We hope that the admirable work being done by the government in pursuing such forward-looking policies at the macro level is not allowed to be overshadowed by isolated situations like this at the field level, which must be minimised by sensitising the authorities concerned. An effort should be made to create a taxpayer-friendly atmosphere by adopting a just and fair approach at every level of the tax administration.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tata-edu-trusts-charity-in-us-not-income-itat/articleshow/77157800.cms||Lubna Kably
July 25, 2020||Surat||Prone position therapy gives encouraging results in SMIMER||Surat: Surat Municipal Corporation’s (SMC)SMIMER Hospital has adopted ‘prone position’ therapy on a mass scale for treating Covid-19 patients’ treatment and doctors say they are getting good results. Prone is a body position in which patients are asked to lay flat on their stomach. “We have been using a prone position mechanism on a mass scale for the last one month and the results in terms of health improvement are encouraging. Covid-19 is one kind of pneumonia and affects the respiratory system which necessitates increased oxygen demand in patients. This position improves ventilation in patients and helps them recover fast,” said Dr. Naimesh Shah, assistant professor (medicine) at SMIMER Dr Shah said that this is not a new discovery, but an established global practice in patients who need oxygen support. “In our Covid-19 hospital, 100 patients are simultaneously given this prone position therapy. Our clinical team uses a microphone in Covid-19 wards to give directions and we monitor it very closely. Patients are asked to do it four to six times a day with time ranging from 30 minutes to two hours,” he added. The mass prone position therapy decreases oxygen demand, reduces respiratory support and decreases hospital stay for patients. “In a situation of scarce resources of oxygen and respiratory support systems like ventilators, prone position therapy is helping us a lot as it does not cost anything,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/prone-position-therapy-gives-encouraging-results-in-smimer/articleshow/77155909.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Patna||HC seeks details of facilities in hospitals for Covid-19 patients||PATNA: The Patna high court on Friday sought the details from the state health department on the number of hospitals notified for Covid-19 treatment and other facilities available there for patients suffering from the coronavirus. The health department has been asked to file a counter affidavit with details on or before the next date of hearing on August 7. A division bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice S Kumar was hearing a PIL filed by one Dinesh Kumar Singh, who has urged the court to direct the authorities concerned for conducting sero survey in state along with conducting free rapid antigen tests and molecular tests on people and setting up a plasma bank for Covid-19 patients. The petitioner has also pleaded for increasing the number of government and private laboratories for conducting Covid-19 tests along with ensuring appropriate availability of ventilator beds, oxygen cylinders, PPE kits, rapid test kits and other equipment for doctors and Covid-19 patients in hospitals. Standing counsel Vikas Kumar represented the state government. Petitioner’s counsel Dinu Kumar, assisted by Ritika Rani, said the high court has directed the health department to give district-wise details in tabular format on the number of tests conducted and proposed to be conducted in future besides the number of isolation centres, doctors and paramedical staff in hospitals, count of ventilators and oxygen cylinders, procedure adopted for disposal of bodies among other facilities. “The court was apprised that sero survey, rapid antigen and rapid anti-body tests were not being conducted by state government for free. Even no blood plasma bank has been set up yet in Patna. Even bodies were also being not disposed of as per the guidelines,” he said. ‘Don’t involve all private hospitals in Covid treatment’: One Ranjana Kumari has filed a PIL in Patna high court, urging it to direct the state government not to involve private hospitals which don’t have infrastructure in treatment of Covid patients. The petitioner said only hospitals accredited by National Accreditation Board for Hospitals should be allowed to treat Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hc-seeks-details-of-facilities-in-hospitals-for-covid-19-patients/articleshow/77156127.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 25, 2020||Surat||Tax evasion worth Rs 7 Cr by three firms in Anand, Vadodara detected||Surat: The Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI) unearthed Rs 7 crore tax evasion by three firms in Anand and Vadodara during simultaneous raids carried out on Friday. According to DGGI’s Surat zonal unit, their officials in Vadodara received intelligence that Anupam Port Cranes Corporation Limited (APCCL) in Anand had showed wrong tax liability in their return and thereby making short payment of GST from August 2019. During investigation, it was found that the company suppressed the fact of non-payment of their GST liability of July 2019 and admitted the evasion of tax to the tune of Rs 2.75 crore. The owners paid Rs 1.12 crore on the spot. In another case, Vadodara-based Raj Concrete engaged in providing contract services had not paid tax for the services provided by them. The scrutiny of the documents seized during the raid found that the company had evaded service tax between April 2016 and March 2017 and also from April 2017 to June 2017 to the tune of Rs 1.28 crore. The partner of the company paid Rs 15 lakh as part payment towards the evasion and promised to pay the remaining amount soon.In the third case, the Vadodara-based logistics and bulk handling firms engaged in cargo handling services had not discharged their GST liability. The scrutiny of the documents seized from the premises found that the firms had GST liability to the tune of Rs 3 crore and that they had not paid to the government exchequer. Official sources said that the cumulative detection of the tax evasion is about Rs 7 crore and that the taxpayers have paid Rs 4.35 crore on the spot. Further investigations are going on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/tax-evasion-worth-rs-7-cr-by-three-firms-in-anand-vadodara-detected/articleshow/77156401.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Patna||Rumpus as BJP Bettiah chief dies||BETTIAH: Police were called in as rumpus broke outside the Covid ward at the Government Medical College here around Thursday midnight as the BJP city chief Kanhaiya Gupta was gasping to stay alive. Gupta, who was corona infected, succumbed soon after. SDPO Mukul Parimal Pandey said there were heated arguments between a patient’s sympathizers and the staff on duty. “We prevented the situation from turning ugly,” he said. West Champaran BJP president Dipendra Sarraf, himself in home isolation on testing positive, said: “I too have heard that Gupta ji’s kin were unhappy as their request to put him on ventilator went unheeded. He was having acute breathlessness.” Gupta is survived by his wife and three minor children. The medical college principal, Dr Binod Kumar, said he was there along with other doctors when a mob of about 50 people targeted junior doctors on duty. “We rushed to placate the agitated crowd and the police also arrived soon,” he said on Friday. “The patient (Gupta) was restless and irritable. He was time and again pulling out the oxygen tube and was thus losing on oxygen intake. Doctors on duty were putting it back each time. We lost him about an hour after the commotion,” he told this newspaper. Around midnight itself, a woman from Sitamarhi found Covid positive was admitted in the isolation ward. She too succumbed in the wee hours today, the principal said. Not counting a few deaths where patients succumbed while their test reports remained pending, the woman’s demise pushed the Covid death toll in West Champaran to double figures. However, the official figures have been at variance. Till last week, the district public relations office reported just one Covid death while the state health society (SHS) had been reporting five deaths. The SHS bulletin on Friday showed six deaths in this district. Civil surgeon Dr Arun K Singh said the data entry work has suffered on account of NHM evaluators being on strike. “They should be resuming duties today,” he said. As the Covid confirmatory test kits still being unavailable, even testing has taken a beating in West Champaran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rumpus-as-bjp-bettiah-chief-dies/articleshow/77156423.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
July 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ghee adulteration racket: Dudhsagar Dairy MD suspended||Gandhinagar: Following directions from the state government, Mehsana-based Dudhsagar Dairy (Mehsana District Milk Co-operative Federation Ltd) on Friday suspended its managing director Nishit Baxi with immediate effect and informed the state government about the action. The government asked the Dudhsagar dairy board to take strict action after over 600 metric tonnes of ghee produced by the dairy under the Amul, Sagar and other brands, was found to be adulterated. The state registrar of co-operatives ordered an investigation and action against all those responsible. Investigations so far revealed that over 600 metric tonnes of ghee, worth over Rs 47 crore, was adulterated with palm oil, at a dairy operated by Dudhsagar. Some 118 batches packed by Dudhsagar Dairy were been found to be adulterated with 16% palm oil. Another 512 metric tonnes of packed ghee is still at branch godowns of the dairy and samples of these will also be checked. If any are found to be adulterated, these will be sent back to Dudhsagar Dairy and it will be charged for the loss. D P Desai, registrar, co-operative societies, had said in an order that there is a clear case of negligence against the managing director of Dudhsagar Dairy and asked the board of directors to suspend him as it is not prudent for him to continue while an investigation is on. The official said that even as investigation is on, the Gujarat Food and Drugs Control Administration (FDCA) ought to carry out an independent investigation into the racket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ghee-adulteration-racket-dudhsagar-dairy-md-suspended/articleshow/77156462.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Kolkata||Man kills self fearing infection||Kolkata: A 65-year-old man suffering from fever and cold for some days committed suicide in Kishorepur on Friday after his doctor and neighbours asked him to get his swab sample tested for Covid. The victim had gone to a doctor when his fever and cough persisted and was told to take a Covid test. Afraid of being infected, he allegedly went into depression. On Friday, he set out for his morning walk but never returned. Later, villagers found him hanging from a tree. “We have sent the body for post-mortem. It appears that he feared the consequences of testing positive for Covid,” said an officer. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/man-kills-self-fearing-infection/articleshow/77157600.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Pune||Junnar gets 500-bed hub for asymptomatics||Pune: The Junnar tehsil administration has set up a 500-bed Covid-19 care centre at Ozar to admit asymptomatic patients. The administration converted a two-storey building, owned by the Ozar Ganapati Temple Trust, into a care centre in four days. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer of the Zilla Parishad, visited the facility on Friday. Prasad said, “People from all walks of life have come forward and extended their help to establish the centre. Vighnahar Sugar Factory helped get the beds. Blankets and catering service are being supplied by social organizations and local residents.” A team of six doctors, including specialists and private practitioners will provide health care at the centre. “Currently, our focus is to create such centres at places where a large number of cases have been reported,” Prasad added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/junnar-gets-500-bed-hub-for-asymptomatics/articleshow/77159485.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Madurai||Minor fire at Theni MCH shed||Madurai: Patients including those at the isolation ward in the Theni medical college hospital were evacuated after a fire broke out in the shed used for storing disinfection materials around 7.15 on Friday. Blamed on an electric short circuit, the gases that emanated from the burning of disinfection materials caused breathing difficulty for many. Three firefighters from the fire and rescue services teams which arrived from Andipatti and Theni suffered mild breathing difficulty and were under observation at the hospital. “Three fire tenders were rushed to the spot and firefighting began around 7.30 am, within 10 minutes of receiving the information,” District fire officer (DFO) J Kavitha said. It was put off in about 20 minutes, but it took more than an hour for the 12 firefighters to bring the smoke under control. The materials in the shed included cardboard boxes with bleaching powder in it, papers and plastic buckets. Hospital dean M Ilangovan said swift action by fire and rescue services ensured safety of patients and the medical fraternity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/minor-fire-at-theni-mch-shed/articleshow/77159476.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Kolkata||Dhakuria Bridge closure||Kolkata: Dhakuria Bridge was closed to traffic on Friday night as KMDA is expected to start the load test from Saturday morning. The work is likely to get over by Monday morning and normal traffic should resume soon after. According to traffic cops, during this period, autos on the Golpark-Garia route will be short terminated at Jodhpur Park Second Lane. Small vehicles going towards Jadavpur will be diverted from Golpark crossing. Vehicles going towards Gariahat will be diverted from Prince Anwar Shah Road while buses going towards Jadavpur will be diverted via Rashbehari Avenue, Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Road and EM Bypass from multiple points. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dhakuria-bridge-closure/articleshow/77157552.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Probe ordered into electrocution of lioness in Visavadar||RAJKOT: The forest department ordered an inquiry after a three-year-old lioness was found electrocuted in Rajpara round of Visavadar range in Gir (east) forest division on Friday. The area falls under the reserved forest category Since there were no electric wiring or transformer nearby the spot where the carcass was found, forest officials declared this as an unnatural death and handed probe to range forest officer (RFO) Visavadar Shivrajdan Gadhvi. The carcass was found by foresters during routine patrolling. According to forest officials, the lioness had died about 5-7 hours back. The postmortem report suggested that the lioness died of electrocution, raising doubts that the animal carcass may have been dumped in the forest area after it died. The samples of the lioness have been are sent for forensic investigation, said Gadhvi. “It’s difficult to say how lioness got electrocuted. But we are investigating weather it was an accident or deliberate mischief by somebody,” Gadhvi told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/probe-ordered-into-electrocution-of-lioness-in-visavadar/articleshow/77156374.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Mangaluru||Ex-minister deploys his MUVs to ferry front-line corona warriors||MOODBIDRI: For a politician, whose primary business is public transport, ferrying people in a fleet of buses in a transport company that he is a partner in, spells bread and butter. However, when he uses the same concept to transport front-line corona warriors to their workplace in his personal fleet of multi-utility vehicles (MUVs), it spells public service. And doing this quietly, behind the scenes, since lockdown 1.0 is former minister K Abhayachandra Jain, a partner in Sugama Travels. Jain, who lent two of his MUVs for exclusive use by staff of the community health centre and G V Pai Charitable Hospital, for the entire duration of lockdown 1.0-5.0, did so again when the Dakshina Kannada (DK) district administration announced the week-long lockdown from July 16. This arrangement has come as a boon to the nurses, technicians and other staff of the hospitals, who hitherto relied exclusively on public transport. Having set aside a vehicle each for personal use at Moodbidri and in Bengaluru, Jain said these two MUVs were lying idle since the lockdown. Recognising the need to ensure the continuity of medical service in the two hospitals during the lockdown, and with public transport not running to usual capacity since unlock 1.0, Jain said that these vehicles were placed at the disposal of the hospital staff to ensure that the poor received uninterrupted medical help. A majority of the staff working in the hospitals come from Shirthady, Siddakatte, Venur, Sanoor, Kadandale and Yedapadavu. With service and express buses off the road, and even autorickshaws not available in the town, Jain said that the MUVs are filling the gap for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/ex-minister-deploys-his-muvs-to-ferry-front-line-corona-warriors/articleshow/77156172.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 25, 2020||Surat||Threat of virus lurks in flavours of Rander’s street food||Surat: Khowsey, aloo puri, biryani to non-veg food varieties — some of the most delectable street food delicacies that ‘khao galis’ of Old Rander town served once — luring food lovers from far and wide, have now lost its flavour.Muslim community leaders believe that it is because of the food that the pandemic spread in the area rapidly making it a coronavirus hotspot in the city. Rander town was the first largest containment area in Gujarat. The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) had quarantined almost 1.25 sqkm area covering nearly 4,000 houses in Rander town after two Covid-19 cases were reported in the first week of April. Today, the area has crossed over 1,000 Covid-19 cases, following closely behind Katargam and Limbayat. Almost 50% of the cases have been recorded from Rander town and adjoining Gorat-Adajan road alone. There are over 200 roadside eatery stalls and food joints in Rander town which continued business as usual in spite of repeated appeals by the community leaders urging the street food stall owners to shut business to contain the spread of infection. For the first time post-lockdown, street food vendors and retail shops in Rander town joined in the voluntary self-lockdown appeal made by deputy mayor Nirav Shah on July 16. However, that was shortlived and after a week’s closure, vendors have reappeared from Wednesday. Zuber Botawala, trustee of HIMS Botawala Charitable trust told TOI, “Rander’s street food is putting lives of its residents at risk of infection. I am urging the owners to shut down after unlock-1, but nobody is heeding my appeal.” Dr Rafique Mallik, a general practitioner in Rander town told TOI, “In unlock-1, Rander witnessed a lesser number of Covid-19 cases, but it spiked phenomenally once the street food business started again. This food business is the biggest worry for the residents.” Echoing similar views, Sohail Shaikh, president of Rander’s Development Charitable Trust said, “From every mohalla you will get at least 15 Covid-19 positive patients. Post-lockdown, residents of the area aren’t moving out, but we can’t stop people from other parts of the city coming in to eat food here.” A senior SMC’s health officer told TOI, “We can’t force the closure of street food stalls as they have to make a voluntary decision. Though overburdened, health department is conducting surprise checks regularly in Rander and also penalizing street food vendors found violating social distancing norms and not wearing face masks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/threat-of-virus-lurks-in-flavours-of-randers-street-food/articleshow/77155945.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Patna||Slain kar sevak’s family wants image installed at Ram temple||PATNA: The family members of Sanjay Kumar, who was killed along with four others in the police firing at Ayodhya in 1990, want the images of all the five slain kar sevaks to be installed on the premises of the Ram temple there for which bhumi pujan ceremony is scheduled on August 5. “We demand from the committee monitoring the construction of the Ram temple at Ayodhya to install the image of my father along with the other four kar sevaks on the temple premises for their supreme sacrifice on November 2, 1990,” said Smriti Choudhary (32), the elder daughter of Sanjay of Sain village in Muzaffarpur district. “It will be a real tribute to those who died for the sake of the Ram temple about three decades ago. The coming generations must be aware of their supreme sacrifices. ‘Nahi to unko kaun yaad karega’ (Else who will remember them),” she said. Smriti, who was then only two years and nine months old, has a faint memory of his father, a devout Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) supporter. “My sister was a toddler when my father was killed by the police. My mother Rambha Devi somehow managed to run the family and provided better education to her two kids,” she recalled. Rambha, however, died of cancer a few months before the Supreme Court verdict on the disputed site in 2019. “She would have been very delighted to know about the apex court on an issue for which her husband had been killed,” Smriti said. BJP functionary Arvind Kumar, who had accompanied Sanjay, said, “Sanjay’s relatives should be invited to the function. It will be an honour to the family. Sanjay’s sacrifice shouldn’t go unnoticed.” Arvind, who was witness to the November 2, 1990 incident, recalled that the police opened fire on those in the procession when it reached Hanumangarhi. Sanjay was among the five kar sevaks who received bullet injuries. “He was the only one from Bihar to be killed in the firing,” he revealed. Mulayam Singh Yadav was the Uttar Pradesh CM when the incident took place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/slain-kar-sevaks-family-wants-image-installed-at-ram-temple/articleshow/77155137.cms||Ramashankar
July 25, 2020||Business||PE to double stake in IndusInd to 10%||TNN Mumbai: IndusInd Bank has said that it has received approval from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to allow private equity fund Route One Investment Company to double its stake in the bank. Route One currently owns nearly 5% in the lender. It had earlier sought an RBI approval to increase its stake to 10% in line with the central bank’s directions. The private bank’s board had approved the proposal on July 5. Meanwhile, CSB Bank (formerly Catholic Syrian Bank) said that the RBI has conveyed its approval to SBI Funds Management to acquire shares up to 10% of CSB Bank. The approval is valid for a year. While IndusInd Bank has not mentioned any time frame for increasing stake, there have been reports of the bank looking at a preferential issue of shares. A host of private lenders are issuing equity in an effort to bolster their capital to take care of any losses arising out of the Covid-19 economic crisis. Axis Bank had said on July 2 that it was planning to raise Rs 15,000 crore through issue of various instruments. ICICI Bank also plans to raise a similar amount. Kotak Mahindra Bank, which raised Rs 7,442 crore in May, was the first to do so. Shares of IndusInd Bank closed over Rs 8 higher at Rs 522, while CSB Bank shares were up nearly Rs 11 at Rs 195.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pe-to-double-stake-in-indusind-to-10/articleshow/77156944.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Rajkot||Special parcel train between Porbandar, Shalimar||Rajkot: The Western Railway (WR) has decided to run a special parcel trains between Porbandar and Shalimar in Howrah in West Bengal. According to a release issued by the WR, this train will run 26 times between August 31 and September 2 and halt at Jamnagar, Rajkot, Surendranagar, Ahmedabad, Anand, Vadodara, Bharuch, Ankleshwar and Surat. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/special-parcel-train-between-porbandar-shalimar/articleshow/77156282.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Patna||Sahani, Kushwaha say all’s well in Mahagathbandhan||PATNA: Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP) chief Mukesh Sahani has said that the Mahagathbandhan is intact and any issues related to the forthcoming assembly polls would be resolved amicably. “The Mahagathbandhan is intact and will get stronger in the days to come,” Sahani told TOI over phone from Delhi where he met senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha MP Ahmed Patel. “All issues will be properly discussed and amicably resolved when senior leaders of the five constituents of the Mahagathbandhan will meet together,” Sahani said, adding his meeting with Patel centred around Bihar elections amid Covid19 pandemic and floods. “Seat sharing talks have already started. But it will take some time as many things are to be discussed before reaching any final conclusion,” Sahani further said. His meeting with the Congress leader, who is known to be close to interim party chief Sonia Gandhi, came hours before the RLSP national president and former union minister Upendra Kushwaha echoed similar views in Patna. Kushwaha said, “It’s wrong to say that there are differences among the five constituents of the Mahagathbandhan.” Kushwaha also favoured the inclusion of all Left parties in the Mahagathbandhan and added that the “the opposition alliance is getting stronger day by day”. He, however, clarified that he was not in favour of postponing the election. “I have not urged the Election Commission to defer the assembly polls but I have always demanded that the election should be held free and fair,” Kushwaha added. He said the virtual rallies would not suit the smaller parties. “So we have demanded for equal field playing for all political parties and contestants,” he said. The frequent visits of the Mahagathbandhan leaders to New Delhi is part of a well-designed strategy to forge a formidable opposition alliance ahead of the assembly polls. “The Congress leadership is making all out efforts to forge a strong and formidable alliance ahead of the Bihar assembly polls. The visit of the leaders of Mahagathbandhan partners is a case in case,” a senior Congress leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sahani-kushwaha-say-alls-well-in-mahagathbandhan/articleshow/77156344.cms||Ramashankar
July 25, 2020||Patna||Hospitals asked to make doctors’ roster public||PATNA: The state government on Friday issued a slew of directives to officials concerned to improve arrangements in government hospitals for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. Secretary (information and public relations department) Anupam Kumar said principals and incharge of government medical college and hospitals and other hospitals have been asked to put roster of doctors on duty in public domain. The health department has been asked to ensure that attendants of people admitted in government hospitals for Covid treatment are allowed to talk to doctors or management of the hospital through intercom and other facilities. “Putting roster of doctors in government hospitals in public domain will allow people to know which doctors are on duty. There will be sufficient seating arrangement for attendants in the hospitals. ‘May I Help You’ counters will also be set up in the hospitals,” Anupam said. He added control rooms have been set up in every government hospital involved in Covid treatment so that people can get all the required information. Anupam said the health department has been asked to reduce the working hours of doctors involved in Covid treatment. “Principals and incharges of the hospitals have been asked to decide the duty hours. Besides, hospitals have also been asked to involve non-clinical staff in Covid care,” he said. The IPRD secretary said the health department has been asked to look after manpower management. “The health department can conduct walk-in interviews for getting additional manpower,” Anupam said. Health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said there will be regular inspection of government hospitals by divisional commissioners and DIGs. Lokesh added, “Healthcare workers and doctors working in district Covid care centres are being imparted training by specialists at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS)-Patna and Indira Gandhi institute of Medical Science (IGIMS). Specialists from National Centre for Disease Control and Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, Delhi are also providing online training to health workers the at district level.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hospitals-asked-to-make-doctors-roster-public/articleshow/77156299.cms||Piyush Tripathi
July 25, 2020||Patna||Gaya civil surgeon urges private hospitals to treat Covid patients||GAYA: With the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the district, Gaya civil surgeon Dr BK Singh on Thursday requested the private hospitals to arrange some beds for corona patients. Reacting to the civil surgeon’s plea, a private hospital owner said that most of the private hospitals in the town are very small in size and as such separate arrangements for Covid patients cannot be made. “Moreover, paramedics working in these hospitals are reluctant to attend Covid cases,” the owner said. As per official records, nearly 4500 rooms are available in various hotels and guest houses of Bodh Gaya. About 20% of the rooms are currently occupied by foreign returnees opting for paid quarantine. The remaining 80% of the rooms are vacant as tourist footfall is near zero. As on Friday afternoon, there were 843 active cases in the district. The existing number of institutional isolation beds, according to official records is 469, including the 325 isolation beds in Anugrah Narain Magadh Medical College Hospital (ANMMCH). More than two-third persons who tested positive are in home isolation. Meanwhile, Congress leaders in Gaya, including AICC member Vijay Kumar Mithu have demanded the establishment of isolation centres in colleges, hotels and private hospitals of the district. Through a joint statement, the Congress leaders expressed concern over mismatch between the number of isolation beds and the number of active Covid-19 cases. Those who made the demand through the joint statement include District Congress Committee vice president Arun Kumar Prasad and Shashi Kishore Shishu. According to these functionaries, with rapid increase in Covid cases in the last few days, the available infrastructure of institutional isolation is grossly inadequate and it needs to be augmented by establishing more isolation centres. The leaders specifically mentioned Gaya College, Gaya, and Anugrah Memorial College, Gaya, as suitable places for establishment of isolation centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gaya-civil-surgeon-urges-private-hospitals-to-treat-covid-patients/articleshow/77156538.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Surat||Sub fire officer succumbs to Covid-19 in Surat||Surat: Sanjay Sonvane (54), a sub fire officer with the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC)’s Fire and Emergency Services and posted at Dindoli Fire Station, succumbed to Covid-19 on Friday morning.According to SMC officials, Sonvane, a resident of Kusum Bhavagar in Pandesara, was admitted to the New Civil Hospital (NCH) on July 17 after he developed Covid-19 symptoms. He tested positive and died on Friday. Sonvane, who was the son of former deputy mayor of Surat, had been working with SMC for the last 24 years. He is the third SMC employee to have died due to Covid-19 in the city. Earlier, Bharat Gandhi (48), a junior engineer with SMC’S election branch too had succumbed to the infection at SMIMER Hospital on July 12. Another employee, Girish Bhadrka (48), working as sanitary sub inspector at SMC’s Leprosy department in Khatodra had died on July 7. On June 13, Shailesh Bhoyre (48), a sanitary inspector (SI) posted at Maan Darwaja under the Umarwada ward had died. However, it was claimed that Bhoyre had passed away due to heart attack. “Over 140 SMC employees have been tested positive for Covid-19 till now which includes doctors, sweepers, sanitary workers, lab technicians, nurses and ward boys among others,” said an SMC officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sub-fire-officer-succumbs-to-covid-19-in-surat/articleshow/77155998.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Vadodara||BCA gets ready to receive BCCI grant||Vadodara: The Baroda Cricket Association (BCA) members passed annual accounts of the last four years on Friday. It came as a major relief for the management that will now get a grant of Rs 125 crore from the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI). “Voting for the resolutions passed in the AGM held online on Thursday was done by postal ballot. We received 1,047 ballots out of which 1,042 accepted the resolutions including passing of the annual accounts of the last four years and appointing statutory auditor,” said Satyajitsinh Gaekwad, chairman, BCA press and publicity committee. Annual accounts of 2016-17, 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20 were passed in one go and it is being seen as a major achievement for BCA president Pranav Amin. The management was under pressure over the last few weeks after four BCA members opposed organizing the AGM amid Covid pandemic. The association then decided to organize the AGM online and call voters to five different venues for passing resolutions. But city police commissioner Anupam Singh Gahlaut denied permission of gathering at the venues following which BCA took to postal ballot for voting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bca-gets-ready-to-receive-bcci-grant/articleshow/77157375.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Pune||City’s 24-hour tally drops to six-day low, 53 more die||Pune: The Covid-19 case count surged to 64,074 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Friday, with the addition of 2,072 cases, the least in the past six days, in the last 24 hours. Besides, 53 more people died of the infection in the region, taking its toll to 1,615 so far. PMR had recorded 2,081 new cases on July 18, 2,459 on July 19, 2,601 on July 20, 2,403 on July 21, 3,218 on July 22 and 2,368 on July 23. Among the fresh cases, PMC areas recorded 892, PCMC limits reported 811, while rural and Cantonment areas together added 369. Though a drop was recorded in the fresh case count, PMC’s latest report said the active case count in municipal limits increased to 17,686 by Friday night. As many as 663 patients were in the critical stage, of whom 102 were put on ventilator support in PMC areas. “A total of 817 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours after being declared cured,” a PMC official said. The PMC conducted 5,747 tests on Friday, including rapid antigen tests. The available data showed that a majority of coronavirus-related deaths occurred at private hospitals. The youngest patient to succumb to the infection was a 42-year-old man from Hingne Khurd, while the oldest deceased were two 87-year-old men from Kothrud and Kasba Peth. The other deceased included a 47-year-old woman from Mundhwa, a 48-year-old man from Yerawada, a 63-year-old woman from Sinhagad Road, a 77-year-old woman from Fatimanagar, a 63-year-old man from Sinhagad Road, a 77-year-old man from Pashan, a 46-year-old man from Ghorpade Peth, a 68-year-old woman from Sinhagad Road, a 56-year-old man from Yerawada, a 53-year-old man from Baner, a 69-year-old man from Hadapsar, a 78-year-old man from Shaniwar Peth, a 74-year-old man from Mundhwa, a 45-year-old man from Dhayari and a 76-year-old man from Kothrud, among others. As the 10-day lockdown ends, health officials have urged people to wear masks and abide by social distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citys-24-hour-tally-drops-to-six-day-low-53-more-die/articleshow/77159460.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 25, 2020||Business||Ather Energy raises Rs 84 cr from Hero Motocorp||Chennai: Electric scooter maker Ather Energy has raised Rs 84 crore from Hero Motocorp as an extension of its series C round that was led by Sachin Bansal. Hero MotoCorp has been a part of Ather’s growth story since 2016, when they first invested as a part of series B. Big Auto has been aggressively investing in electric mobility startups. In November 2019, Yulu raised $8 million in its series A round, led by Bajaj Auto Finance. Last year also saw Greaves Cotton upping its stake in Coimbatore based e-two wheeler company Ampere. Two years ago, TVS Motor Company pumped in Rs 6 crore additional series A investment in Ultraviolette Automotive. Ratan Tata has invested in electric motorcycle company Tork Motors. For Ather, the current funding will help its aggressive expansion phase on the back of its flagship product, the Ather 450X. The company is looking to scale to 20 cities by the end of 2021. To meet the projected demand in the coming years, Ather is opening a new manufacturing facility in Hosur, which is designed to produce 1,00,000 units annually, and is scalable to half a million units. Ather Energy will also set up Ather Grid fast charging points across the country over the next 5 years, making public charging easy and accessible to all electric vehicle owners. “We are in a high growth phase of our journey, and while the last few months have been challenging, we have not altered expansion plans. Our geographic expansion and the roll-out schedule for the Ather 450X are on track, and we will be using these funds to invest in our facilities to meet the demand we have seen for the Ather 450X across the country, ” said Tarun Mehta, co-founder & CEO, Ather Energy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ather-energy-raises-rs-84-cr-from-hero-motocorp/articleshow/77157365.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gulbarg Society massacre survivor makes another bid to enter voters list||Ahmedabad: Gulbarg Society massacre survivor Firozkhan Pathan handed over a memorandum to collectorate officials on Friday, demanding that his name be added to the voters’ list ahead of the municipal corporation election. He also wants the names of 700 others to be included.Pathan contested in the 2019 Lok Sabha election from the Gandhinagar seat against Amit Shah, the BJP president at the time and the current Union home minister.Later, Pathan did not qualify to contest in an AMC ward byelection in October 2019 as his name does not figure in the voters’ list. The names of about 700 residents of Sukun Society on Vejalpur-Juhapura road, including Pathan’s, are missing from the list. The society falls under the Maktampura civic ward of the city.“We have been staying at this address since 2002,” said Pathan, who has joined the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI). “We voted in all local, assembly, and general elections till 2019. And then the names of 700 persons went missing from the voters’ list.”Pathan said that the AMC election is scheduled to be held by the year-end and he and other members of SDPI want to contest in it. “We approached the authorities several times, but our names are not being added to the voters’ list,” Pathan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gulbarg-society-massacre-survivor-makes-another-bid-to-enter-voters-list/articleshow/77157786.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Business||JSW posts Q1 loss of Rs 582cr, 1st in 6 years||TNN Mumbai: JSW Steel reported a loss of Rs 582 crore in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 — its first loss in over six years. It had clocked a profit of Rs 1,008 crore in the year-ago period. Revenue declined 41% to Rs 11,782 crore. Earnings were impacted due to Covid-related disruptions in supply-chain systems, logistic movements and demand functions. The company’s operating profit fell 64% to Rs 1,341 crore. After it scaled down operations towards the end of March, JSW ramped up production a month later with its facilities operating at 80% capacity in May and June. As domestic demand was subdued, it focused on the export markets to liquidate inventory and generate cash flows, the company said. Exports stood at 1.6 million tonnes, while domestic sales were 1.2 million tonnes during the quarter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/jsw-posts-q1-loss-of-rs-582cr-1st-in-6-years/articleshow/77157186.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Kolkata||New Town gets sample-collection kiosk||A Covid-19 sample collection kiosk was opened in New Town on Friday and seven samples were collected on the first day for Rt-PCR tests. NKDA chairman Debashish Sen launched the kiosk on the New Town Mela grounds, opposite Fairfield hotel. It will be operational from 11am to 12pm and again from 3pm to 4pm every day. Two private labs, SP Diagnostic and Suraksha Diagnostic, will be running the kiosk. Appointments can be booked over phone with SP Diagnostic at 6292212643 and Suraksha at 7595055017. For more information, one may call the helpline of New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) at 18001037652. The cost of testing is Rs 2,250. Doctors’ prescriptions may cost extra. Results will be available in two to three days. Samaresh Das of New Town Forum said, “The kiosk will collect 15 samples in the first half and another 15 in the second half.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-town-gets-sample-collection-kiosk/articleshow/77157849.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
July 25, 2020||Kolkata||Doc alleges harassment||Kolkata: A junior doctor at a Howrah hospital alleged she was harassed by cops near Nabanna on Thursday. The woman lodged a complaint with the CMOH, Howrah, Bhabani Das who forwarded it to the Howrah police commissioner. “The cops asked why I had not put a placard in the Toto stating I was on government duty and misbehaved with me for 15 minutes,” she said. Commissioner Kunal Agarwal said, “I have learnt she was questioned as the vehicle didn’t have an ‘emergency duty’ sign. But I have not got any formal complaint from her stating she was harassed.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/doc-alleges-harassment/articleshow/77157795.cms||Rupak Banerjee
July 25, 2020||Kolkata||Posta trader jumps to death||Kolkata: A gold trader allegedly committed suicide by jumping from the terrace of a four-storey building in the Posta area around 4pm on Friday. Cops suspect Surendra Somalia may have been incurring losses in his business, which may have led to him taking this step.  “We found a suicide note that details how he had lent money but was yet to get it back. He said his daughter’s wedding was approaching and hoped that the administration would recover his money to help his daughter get married,” said an investigating officer. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/posta-trader-jumps-to-death/articleshow/77157593.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Patna||Bihar: JD(U) MP RCP Singh asks party workers to help Covid-19 patients||PATNA: JD(U) national general secretary (organisation) and Rajya Sabha MP RCP Singh on Friday called upon the party workers to come forward to provide necessary help to Covid-19 patients and their family members. Addressing his party’s ‘virtual sammelan’ for Amnour (Saran district), Vaishali, Mahua and Mahnar (all in Vaishali district) constituencies, Singh said the entire state was today fighting the deadly virus. “But, the matter of great relief is that more than 22,000 people have so far recovered, thanks to proper treatment at different government hospitals,” he added. Singh said CM Nitish Kumar was very sensitive towards Covid-19 pandemic. “By spending Rs 8,538 crore for the state government’s fight against the coronavirus, the CM has once again proved that the disaster-affected people have first right on the state exchequer,” he said. Singh added the CM was personally monitoring the Covid-19 situation every day and issuing necessary instructions to the officials concerned. “Number of hospitals and beds was being increased as per the requirement. Testing has also increased in the state. Despite all these efforts at the government level, there is an urgent need to boost the morale of the families affected by Covid-19. In such a scenario, it is the duty of all JD(U) workers to act as per the ideals of Nitish do the needful for the masses,” Singh said. He asked the party workers to remain in regular contact with affected families by wearing masks and maintaining social distancing norms. “The JD(U) workers should provide necessary assistance to all the affected families, irrespective of their party affiliation,” Singh said. State’s information and public relations minister Neeraj Kumar said the testing of Covid-19 has now started at sub-division level. He said arrangements have been made to ensure that the test results are made available within 24 hours of testing. State’s transport minister Santosh Nirala said people from disadvantaged classes had never dreamt of becoming the owner of a four-wheeler, but the CM made it possible by launching the Mukhya Mantri Gram Parivahan Yojana under which five people of a village from scheduled caste and extremely backward classes are provided a four-wheeler with a subsidy amount of Rs 1 lakh per beneficiary. JD(U)’s Jehanabad MP Chandeshwar Prasad Chnadravanshi, Yuva JD(U) state president Abhay Kushwaha, spokesperson Anjum Ara and party’s media cell president Amardeep also addressed the virtual sammelan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rcp-asks-jdu-workersto-help-covid-19-patients/articleshow/77156284.cms||Madan Kumar
July 25, 2020||Kolkata||Bidhannagar area logs 1,000 Covid-19 cases in July||KOLKATA: Bidhannagar has been reeling under a Covid wave and it is a tough time for the civic body to tackle the situation. Sources in the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said around 87 new Covid cases had been reported from the areas under the civic body on Friday, taking the total tally to over 1,550. Total 480 Covid cases had been reported in the municipal areas of Bidhannagar till June 30. Over 1,000 new cases were found in this month alone, with 100 cases on Wednesday and 122 on Thursday. Civic officials said despite continuous awareness and miking over the need to wear mask and follow all preventive measures, many people are still flouting the safety norms. The civic authorities are keeping many markets in the township closed on alternative days. Besides, all shops in the markets and standalone shops, except for those selling essentials, are being shut during the lockdown on two days each week, which started on Thursday. The local ward committees are sanitizing the markets in their areas at regular intervals. South Dum Dum Municipality administrator Pachu Roy had reportedly tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. The condition of Roy, who had attended office at the municipality after resumption of its work on last Monday, was stated to be stable. The Asha workers in the municipality areas have started working with the Covid teams, apart from their regular drives to prevent dengue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bidhannagar-area-logs-1k-cases-in-july/articleshow/77157841.cms||Suman Chakraborti
July 25, 2020||Mangaluru||Dakshina Kannada district administration formulates plan for quicker turnaround time||MANGALURU: The district administration has formulated a quicker turn-around time to cremate bodies of Covid-19 victims in Dakshina Kannada. With protocol not permitting use of an electric furnace for a second cremation before 3-hours and the coil of the furnace at Boloor repeatedly coming in for repairs, the administration has placed order for an additional electric furnace that will be made operational at Boloor soon. In addition, a proposal has been mooted to set up a new electric crematorium at Nandigudda at an estimated cost of Rs 1.25 crore using 15th Finance Commission funds and efforts are on to source funds for a similar facility in Surathkal, deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh told TOI. With physical infrastructure available at Boloor, it will not take much time to install a new furnace there, a move that will help address the issue, she said. Acknowledging the sentiments of families who wish to cremate their loved ones on their own or ancestral property, Sindhu said the administration has also permitted the same with safety precautions. “Our group D workers will accompany the body from the hospital to the cremation site and ensure that the rites are conducted as per protocol without people gathering,” she said, adding that it will reduce the pressure on the crematorium at Boloor. Mangaluru city south MLA D Vedavyas Kamath who played a pivotal role in convincing people of Boloor to give the Covid victims a dignified send off despite their initial misgivings said, “We are forced to delay the dispatch of ambulance to the hospital to collect the body for even if an ambulance reaches the crematorium, there is no space to store the bodies for another 3 hours,” he said. Referring to the situation on Thursday where five of the victims were Hindus and their rites had to be performed at Boloor, Kamath said this meant that by the time the fifth body was cremated, there was a gap of 15-hours. “The new furnace that will be purchased and installed using funds at MCCs disposal will help expedite the process,” he said, adding facilities mooted at Nandigudda and Surathkal may take some more time to materialise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dakshina-kannada-district-administration-formulates-plan-for-quicker-turnaround-time/articleshow/77156431.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 25, 2020||Surat||CR Paatil’s Surat roadshow cancelled||SURAT: The grand roadshow of newly appointed Gujarat BJP president, CR Paatil in his hometown Surat—the first public event of the BJP post-lockdown— was cancelled on Friday. The last moment cancellation came amid the fear of coronavirus spread and blatant violation of the social distancing norms by the party workers and leaders at Valak Patiya in Varachha, from where the 30-km long roadshow as scheduled to begin. Paatil, who arrived at the Surat airport from New Delhi at noon told media persons, “I salute the love and affection of my workers and BJP leaders who have gathered to welcome me. But, I don’t want to put the residents at risk when the coronavirus infection is at its peak. The rally stands cancelled where more than 1,500 cars were lined up for my welcome.” Paatil added, “All the public rallies in my Parliamentary constituency in Navsari and other districts and cities have been cancelled due to the coronavirus situation in the state. I request all my workers and party leaders to avoid visiting my office and that I will meet them through video conferencing.” Earlier, the announcement of Paatil’s roadshow was made by the Surat city BJP unit on Thursday. Since Friday morning, hundreds of party workers from the city and district had started gathering at Valak Patiya in Varachha, from where Paatil was supposed to join the rally. Over 1,500 cars had lined up on the road and the social distancing norms had gone for a toss as workers were seen standing in groups and loitering on the road together. There were continuous announcements at the venue for the workers to maintain social distancing. The City Congress unit had submitted a memorandum to the Surat district collector and city police commissioner on Thursday demanding cancellation of the car rally organised by the BJP keeping in mind the deteriorating situation of the city due to the sharp rise in the Covid-19 cases. Working president of Gujarat Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC), Hardik Patel, too had sought permission from the city administration for organising car rally in the city on August 2 after the permission was granted for Paatil’s rally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/state-bjp-president-mega-roadshow-cancels-at-the-last-moment/articleshow/77155834.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Business||NSE halts trading in 2 ETFs after price error||MUMBAI: The prices of Axis Gold ETF and Axis Nifty ETF jumped by 6,553% and 741%, respectively on Friday on the NSE, due to wrong data entry for these thinly traded securities, both of which effected split in prices on the same day. After the split in prices, called corporate actions, were initiated, the prices in the exchange’s system showed huge discrepancies, compared to previous closes due to which the exchange cancelled all the trades in these ETFs for the day. When the trading in these ETFs were closed, the price of Axis Gold ETF on NSE’ website was at Rs 3,483, up from Rs 52 on Thursday while for the Gold ETF the price was Rs 1,151 compared to Rs 137. An NSE spokesperson said the members were notified that trades in Axis Gold and Axis Nifty ETFs till 9:50am on Friday were cancelled by the exchange. “Trading in these securities shall resume with the revised price band after this activity and the same will be notified in advance,” the spokesperson said about the exchange’s decision relating to these two ETFs. Sources said that contrary to general perception about a technical glitch in the exchange’s system, in reality there was a human error in putting in the correct prices post splits in the face values of these ETFs. PE to double stake in IndusInd to 10%IndusInd Bank has said that it has received approval from the RBI to allow private equity fund Route One Investment Company to double its stake in the bank. Route One currently owns nearly 5% in the lender. It had earlier sought an RBI approval to increase its stake to 10% in line with the central bank’s directions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nse-halts-trading-in-2-etfs-after-price-error/articleshow/77156976.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Patna||Automated mask dispensing machines at Buxar, Ara stations||PATNA/ARA: Union minister of state for health and family welfare Ashwini Kumar Choubey inaugurated through video link an automated mask and sanitiser dispensing machine at Buxar railway station on Friday. According to Danapur senior divisional railway manager Adhar Raj, this facility will benefit a large number of people boarding trains at Buxar. This machine will deliver at least 48 varieties of masks, sanitisers and other items related to safety from Covid-19 during journey. Similarly, Union minister of state for power and new and renewable energy (independent charge) R K Singh also inaugurated an automated vending machine at Ara station on Friday through video link. “Buxar and Ara are two major stations of the Danapur division from where a large number of passengers travel by trains every day. This facility will help them at a time when railways is ensuring availability of Covid-19 safety items, including bedsheets, hand gloves and masks on station premises at reasonable prices,” Raj added. Union minister Singh, who is also the Ara MP, held a videoconference with Bhojpur DM Roshan Kushwaha, civil surgeon L P Jha and other health officials and asked them to double their efforts to scale up the Covid control measures in the district. He asked the civil surgeon to set up a separate 50-bed ward with oxygen cylinders for the Covid patients at Ara Sadar hospital. Besides, a regular trained technician to operate ventilators, four other technicians and doctors are also to be trained to operate the ventilators in emergency situations. The civil surgeon was also asked to prepare and submit a list of required medical equipment and anti-viral drugs known to be effective in the treatment of Covid patients, so that the government will make it available for the district. The civil surgeon and deputy superintendent of Ara Sadar hospital were asked to ensure the timely presence of doctors and ensure that the OPD and the emergency services continued in all circumstances. Later, in a joint inspection of Ara Sadar hospital by Bhojpur DM and SP, a bedsheet on an unoccupied bed was found to be extremely dirty. An explanation has been sought from the Sadar hospital manager, who was ordered to augment the cleanliness at the hospital. He was also asked to solve the waterlogging problem on the hospital premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/automated-mask-dispensing-machines-at-buxar-ara-stations/articleshow/77156485.cms||Kumod Verma
July 25, 2020||Patna||BIT-Patna to admit students directly on marks||PATNA: The Birla Institute of Technology Patna (BITP) has decided to admit students to all its BTech courses this year directly on marks obtained in Class X and Class XII examinations. BITP director Arbind Kumar said the notice for admission has already been displayed on the institute’s website and August 21 is the last date for submission of online application forms. A provisional merit list would be prepared after the scrutiny of applications received. Online counselling and admission of selected students would be completed by mid-September and the classes would commence soon thereafter, he said. He clarified that in selection of candidates for admission, 30% weightage would be given to Class 10 marks and 70% to Class 12 marks. The Deoghar and Jaipur centres of BIT would also follow the same process of admission this year, he said. BITP runs bachelor of engineering courses in civil, mechanical, production, information technology, computer science, electrical and electronics, electronics and communications and architectural engineering. Besides, it also runs BBA and BCA courses for which admissions are made on the basis of marks secured in +2 examination. Kumar said the results of final year engineering students were published a week back so that those selected for jobs by various organizations under campus placement programme may not suffer owing to the delay in publication of their results. The mid-semester examinations of these students were already held before the announcement of the nationwide lockdown in March. Even during the lockdown, the institute organized online classes and also arranged for online submission and evaluation of assignments. Quiz was also organized online and the final results were announced after computing the marks obtained in all these tests, he said. Online classes of second and fourth semester students of courses under choice based credit system (CBCS) and of sixth and eighth semester students of courses under non-CBCS programmes have started on July 8. Besides, admission to the MTech, MPharma and MSc courses is already going on. When asked about the campus placement, the director said engineering graduates of BITP have been recruited by a wide range of companies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bit-patna-to-admit-students-directly-on-marks/articleshow/77156365.cms||B K Mishra
July 25, 2020||Patna||PIL seeks filling up of 8,768 posts of doctors||PATNA: A PIL has been filed in the Patna high court urging it to direct the state government to expeditiously fill up 8,768 vacancies for doctors in the health department against the sanctioned strength of 11,645 to effectively fight the Covid-19 pandemic. The PIL cited that the high court itself had directed the state government to fill up massive vacancies of doctors in its judgment delivered on May 28 this year while hearing a batch of petitions on recruitment of doctors. Petitioner Navnit Kumar’s counsel Kumar Brijnandan said the PIL was filed July 22 and an e-filing number has been allotted. The HC in its May 28 judgment had observed that there are 4,418 sanctioned posts of doctors in urban areas against which 2,874 are lying vacant. Similarly in rural areas, the sanctioned strength is 6,944 against which 5,674 posts are lying vacant. The division bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice S Kumar had directed the chief secretary to fill up the vacant posts to the maximum extent possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pil-seeks-filling-up-of-8768-posts-of-doctors/articleshow/77156192.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Pune||Man escapes quarantine, found at home||Pune: A 45-year-old man Covid-19 patient escaped from a designated quarantine facility at Vishrantwadi in the early hours of Friday. He was traced to his house in Somwar Peth and sent back to the facility within two hours. The infected man fled the facility around 12.30am, switched off his cellphone and went home. His father locked him inside the house and waited outside for the authorities. The security staff alerted the police, who went to the man’s house and asked PMC’s Bhavani Peth ward office for an ambulance. “The patient was shifted back to the facility immediately,” senior inspector Arun Awhad of the Vishrantwadi police said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-escapes-quarantine-found-at-home/articleshow/77157822.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Business||Bad loans may rise to 20-yr high due to pandemic: RBI||Mumbai: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has warned that bad loans in banks could rise to a 20-year high as a result of the economic crisis triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic. According to the central bank, bad loans could rise from 8.5% in March 2020 to 12.5% by March 2021 under its baseline scenario, and 14.7% if the stress is severe. In its financial stability report, the RBI hinted at a restructuring of stressed loans going forward. The central bank pointed out that globally governments and regulators have taken steps to reduce the cost of loan modifications/restructuring to help borrowers affected by the pandemic. These initiatives also obviate the requirement of additional capital against increased risk. “The BCBS (Basel Committee on Banking Supervision) has endorsed these strategies as long as supervisors make sure that banks use them prudently and due disclosures are made to enable market participants to assess the rationale and potential impact of such actions by the banks,” the RBI said. The pandemic is expected to reverse all gains made by banks in cleaning their books. According to RBI data, bad loans steadily declined from 11.5% in March 2018 to 9.3% (2019) and 8.5% in March 2020. The clean-up has resulted in banks using a large chunk of capital. This has resulting in the capital adequacy ratio edging down to 14.8% in March 2020 from 15% a year ago. The central bank’s forecast is based on stress tests that it conducts. It has also analysed the extent of loans for which moratorium has been sought. According to the analysis, 50% of borrowers by value availed of the moratorium in April. Among business segments, the highest percentage of loans that are under moratorium belong to MSMEs (65%), followed by individuals (55%) and corporates (42%). “The financial system in India remains sound. Nonetheless, in the current environment, the need for financial intermediaries to proactively augment capital and improve their resilience has acquired top priority. In the evolving milieu, while risk management has to be prudent, extreme risk aversion would have adverse outcomes for all,” RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said in a foreword to the report. In the report, the RBI said that the pandemic has the potential to amplify financial vulnerabilities, including corporate and household debt burdens in case of severe economic contraction. On the positive side, the fiscal, monetary and regulatory intervention has ensured normal functioning of markets. It also ensured the markets did not freeze despite risk aversion. Additionally, bilateral exposure among financial institutions had come down, which reduces contagion risks. However, there were signs that credit growth has eased with the moderation becoming broad-based across banks. The survey points out that large borrowers accounted for 78.3% of the gross NPAs. “This had come down on an incremental basis, meaning thereby that progressively the smaller companies are contributing more to NPAs. The top 100 companies accounted for 17.5% of total advances, but accounted for 12.6% of total NPAs, which is a positive takeaway,” said CARE Ratings chief economist Madan Sabnavis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bad-loans-may-rise-to-20-yr-high-due-to-pandemic-rbi/articleshow/77158961.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Madurai||Main mkts in Madurai see lesser crowds||Madurai: Markets in the city have been witnessing lesser crowds compared to initial days of lockdown. Veeranan, a trader at the farmers market said that he was finding it difficult to sell even the 20 kg that he brought to the market as there are very few takers. When we were allowed to function after two months, I had not less than 100 customers coming to my shop, but now not even 20 people came on Friday,” he said. Traders say that most of them have to store or take their goods back home, after the barricading system was implemented, as they have been witnessing very little crowd. “There were times when the buyers would concentrate on each onion and pick and choose it. But now, it is usually the retailers who buy in bulk and do not choose. Even the customers are asking us to select the vegetables for them,” said Mari a vendor in the Anna Nagar farmers market. People have become cautious about going to the markets as they are aware that many people connected with the market have tested positive for the disease. “I tell my spouse to buy the vegetables online even if it costs more and avoid going to markets. After the markets were barricaded, it has become strict out of bounds area,’’ said K Shanmugam of Bibikulam. President of the Matuthavani Central Market association, P S Murugan said that the sales of vegetables are now better than during the lockdown. “Main markets are seeing lesser crowds as temporary markets have been opened at many places and people can buy vegetables on the go without crowding in one place,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/main-mkts-in-madurai-see-lesser-crowds/articleshow/77159458.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Patna||Patna airport terminal building extension work hit||PATNA: Work on extension of the terminal building at Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport here may get delayed due to non-availability of construction materials and difficulties in transportation of other equipment amid Covid-induced lockdown in the state. K S Vijayan, general manager (engineering), projects, Airport Authority of India (AAI)-Patna said lack of workers and delay in delivery of construction materials for superstructure of the extended area on the eastern side of the terminal building might delay the project. “Around 50% of glasses, to be used in the extended area, are expected to arrive from Delhi soon. The internal furnishing work is expected to be completed by mid-August and the the new area would become functional by the end of August instead of July-end deadline,” Vijayan added. The additional area of 2,000sq metre will increase the passenger handling capacity of the terminal building by 2.5 lakh per annum. Airport director Bhupesh CH Negi said the extension and modification works are in full swing despite rain and other challenges. “AAI-Patna team is working in close coordination with all stakeholders to minimise inconvenience to the passengers and visitors during the ongoing work for new terminal building,” he said. AAI-Patna officials thanked the Patna district administration and police for extending support in maintaining smooth flow of vehicular and passenger movement inside and outside the airport premises during construction work. Meanwhile, Negi said after addition of the new area, number of check-in counters would increase to 20 from the existing 16 while one registered baggage X-ray machine and two hand baggage X-ray machines will also be installed. “The number of frisking booths will also increase,” Negi said, adding more facilities for passengers would eventually reduce the waiting time in queues and enable hassle-free passenger processing at various points. The modified area will have shopping facilities, retail segment, additional frisking booths and lounge facility. The much-awaited modification of the existing terminal building is expected to ease space constraints till the airport gets the new terminal building by 2023. New ticket counters inaugurated: Principal secretary of tourism department Sanjay Kumar inaugurated the newly constructed ticket counters of different airlines in the extended area of the terminal building of Patna airport on Friday. Airport director Bhupesh C H Negi said the ticket counters have been shifted to the extended area of the terminal building and the old counters would be demolished. “Once the old counters are demolished, the area will be merged with the extended portion,” he said. CISF commandant Vishal Dubey, Airline Operators Committee chairman Rupesh Singh, all station managers of airlines operating at Patna airport and senior officers of AAI-Patna were present at the function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-hits-terminal-building-extension-work/articleshow/77155048.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 25, 2020||Patna||21 NDRF teams deployed in flood-hit N Bihar dists||PATNA: Three additional teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) from Odisha and West Bengal have been deployed in flood-hit areas of the state for carrying out rescue and relief operations along with the 9th battalion teams of the force. While one team of 2nd battalion of NDRF from Kolkata has been deployed in Supaul district, two teams of the 3rd battalion have also reached the state from Cuttack. Commandant of NDRF’s 9th battalion Vijay Sinha said altogether 21 teams of the force with 35 to 40 personnel each are deployed in Bihar. “Eighteen teams of the 9th battalion are from Bihta in Patna and the rest three teams from two other states,” he said. Sinha said NDRF personnel who reached the state from Cuttack were sent to Saran and Motihari where an embankment breached. “Two teams each are in West Champaran, Darbhanga and Supaul and one team each in Patna, Araria, Katihar, Kishanganj, Muzaffarpur and Madhubani,” he said. Sinha said if required, more teams would be roped in from other states. “All teams of the 9th battalion have been pressed into action. We are covering all districts of north Bihar looking keeping in mind the rise in water levels of major rivers,” he said. Sinha said NDRF personnel are also at work in Gopalganj where an embankment breached on Thursday night. “More than 1,200 people have been rescued in Gopalganj and Motihari by the NDRF personnel,” he said. Sinha added an NDRF team saved a boat ferrying people from capsizing in the swollen Gandak in East Champaran district after its engine failed on Friday. “Villagers brought the matter to the notice of NDRF personnel after hearing screams of people. The NDRF men held one end of a bamboo while its other end was held by people on boat. The boat was finally pulled to safety,” he added. Sinha said at least 3,200 flood-hit people and 126 livestock have so far been rescued by NDRF personnel in Gopalganj, East Champaran, West Champaran, Saran and Supual districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/21-ndrf-teams-deployed-in-flood-hit-n-bihar-dists/articleshow/77154930.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 25, 2020||Patna||Smart showers leave many areas in Patna waterlogged||PATNA: One spell of rain in Patna on Friday left several localities waterlogged and added to the miseries of residents already reeling from the fear of Covid-19 pandemic. Areas like Lohanipur, Kadamkuan, Birla Mandir-Khetan Market Road, Jyotish Path, Indrapuri, Samanpura, East Ram Krishna Nagar, ward 22 in Patliputra Colony, Patel Nagar and a few pockets of Rajeev Nagar witnessed waterlogging following XX mm of rainfall. “Waterlogging is not a new issue in Patliputra Colony, especially our road number 3-J. During the rainy season, my campus is always waterlogged and now water has entered my house. I stay here with my wife and it is difficult for two old-aged people to manage in this situation,” retired district judge Shakir Hasan said. He further said though pumps were being used, but due to some technical issues water reversed to their campus instead of going to sump houses. “Draining out water by a pump is not a permanent solution. The municipal corporation should find some permanent solution,” he added. Lohanipur resident Akshit Raj also complained of waterlogging in his area. “Now we have mentally prepared ourselves to face waterlogging during rainy season,” he said. Birla Mandir Road resident Pallavi Priya also demanded a permanent solution to the problem. “Since childhood I have seen this road getting submerged even after little rain. I have turned 22 and the condition remains the same. This is one of the commercial hubs of Patna and look at its condition,” she said. Local ward councillor Asfar Ahmad said he had written to the PMC commissioner about the problem in Birla Mandir-Khetan Market road. “The commissioner has assured all help, but his subordinate officers are least bothered. People keep complaining to me and officers do not listen to us,” he said. Talking about waterlogging, Kankarbagh circle executive officer S K Mishra said a few areas were affected because of rainfall. “But we are draining out water by a portable pump,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/smart-showers-leave-many-areas-in-city-waterlogged/articleshow/77154955.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Hubballi||Five succumb to novel coronavirus in Dharwad||DHARWAD/ HAVERI: The pandemic continued to claim more lives in Dharwad, with five more falling prey to Covid-19 on Friday, taking the district’s overall death toll to 85. Overall, it was a rather grim day for Dharwad, where 174 more people were confirmed infected with Covid-19, sending its overall tally to 2,842. However, as many as 52 people who recovered from the infected were discharged on Friday. In all, 973 Covid-19 patients have been discharged in the district, as a result of which the number of active cases in Dharwad now stands at 1,784. Of the five who succumbed to the novel coronavirus on Friday, four were women and the other was a 65-year-old man. Doctor among 58 confirmed infected in Haveri A doctor working privately in Byadagi was among the 58 who were confirmed infected with the novel coronavirus in Haveri district on Friday. In addition to the doctor, five Covid-19 warriors have also tested positive for the novel coronavirus. The overall tally in the district is now at 660, of which 251 are active cases. The North Karnataka district also registered one fatality, its death toll rising to 21 as a consequence. A one-year-old boy in Byadagi Islampur Oni was the youngest to test positive in Haveri, while an 80-year-old man from Guttal was the oldest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/five-succumb-to-novel-coronavirus-in-dharwad/articleshow/77152001.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Mangaluru||370 test Covid-19 positive on coast, 8 fatalities in Dakshina Kannada||MANGALURU/UDUPI: A minor drop of eight cases on the coast at 370 on Friday, against 378 reported 24 hours prior, was the lone bright spot on the Covid-19 front in the two coastal districts. While the fresh surge of 190 cases in Udupi saw it breach the 3,000 total cases mark to touch 3,036 cases, Dakshina Kannada (DK) that recorded eight more Covid-19 related deaths, saw its total positive cases touch 4,394 on Friday. On a day that the Dakshina Kannada zilla panchayat discussed the pandemic issue threadbare at its special meeting, the surging body count of people suffering from comorbidities only added to the specter of the pandemic. The deceased included four people from Mangaluru taluk, two from Bhadravathi in Shivamogga district and one each from Bantwal and Puttur taluks, stated deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh, in the district bulletin. The youngest of these victims was a 42-year-old man from Bantwal and the eldest a 75-year-old woman from Mangaluru. Their deaths were reported on Wednesday and Thursday, respectively, she said, adding DK is seeing a high number of fatalities due to its status as a tertiary healthcare centre where patients in the last stage of life threatening diseases are referred to for treatment. These patients testing positive for the novel coronavirus is coincidental, she said. Fresh cases coupled with the discharge of 125 patients from the designated Covid-19 and private hospitals, took the total number of those discharged in DK to 1,987, and there are now 2,300 active cases in the district. The 180 fresh cases included 68 patients who were diagnosed with influenza-like illness (ILI), 56 primary contacts of infected patients, and the source of infection in 45 patients is being traced, 10 patients were diagnosed with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and one is an international traveller. The 190 cases in Udupi pushed the district’s active cases beyond the 1,000 mark to 1,096, and included 56 people who were diagnosed with ILI. Health authorities discharged 88 patients on the day, DC G Jagadeesha said, adding 499 patients are in home quarantine. In a related development, the DC warned action against people spreading the canard that the district administration has banned Naga Panchami celebrations. “You can observe it in your home and not in public,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/370-test-ve-on-coast-8-fatalities-in-dakshina-kannada/articleshow/77156929.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Powerlooms in Ichalkaranji weave hospital linen, masks||KOLHAPUR: The coronavirus spread in Ichalkaranji town of Kolhapur district has not deterred the powerloom owners in this textile hub. When the other textile centres in Maharashtra – Solapur, Bhiwandi and Malegaon— were grappling with coronavirus couple of months back, the units in Ichalkaranji continued to weave. Now, the virus is spreading fast in this small town on the banks of the Panchganga river. The town, which has already experienced a total lockdown earlier this month, had 544 Covid-19 cases on Friday. Ichalkaranji is known for its production of grey or unprocessed cloth, which is sent to Surat and Bhiwandi for further processing. Usually, about 1.25 crore metre of the cloth with a market value of Rs 50-55 crore is produced in the town. With no new orders and absence of migrant workers, the textile hub is keeping its chin up by producing hospital linen and masks. Saad Momin, who has 350 powerlooms in Ichalkaranji, said only 30% of the industry is functional at present, mostly with the orders of fabric used to make masks and hospital linen. He added that the orders they used to get from the Middle East and Gulf countries have come to nil due to the lockdown. “Even today, we are getting few orders from Mumbai and Ahmedabad. The thing is that we will produce the fabric and keep it ready, but there is no assurance of the delivery time and payment,” he said. The powerloom owners faced hurdles after the migrant workers left in May due to coronavirus fear. Khalifa Mahto, who hails from Gujarat and is in Ichalkaranji from last ten years, said a majority of the workers left in May and those who stayed are now scared after the recent spike in coronavirus cases. To overcome the labour shortfall, the powerloom association decided to train locals. Satish Koshti, president of the association at Ichalkaranji, said their members, nearly 13,000 small and big powerloom factories, decided to train local youths for a month. “The local youth can this way be semi-skilled and we can at least complete the orders already placed. Sons of soil will be given the first priority,” he said. While the industry looks forward to further relaxations from next month, owners like Momin feel it will take them more than a year to come on track again. “We have provided the workers with stay and food facility. Corona is for the time being. Though we are not in profit making these days, we are making sure to pay the workers on time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/powerlooms-in-ichalkaranji-weave-hospital-linen-masks/articleshow/77156240.cms||Rahul Gayakwad
July 25, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Gas victim dies as hospital lacks ICU bed||BHOPAL: Shakeel, a 42-year-old gas victim , who was suspected to be a Covid-19 positive, died at Bhopal Memorial Hospital & Research Centre (BMHRC) after he was refused admission at the largest Covid-19 hospital in the city, Chirayu Hospital, as ICU bed was not vacant in the hospital at the time. Chirayu Hospital has been converted into an exclusive Covid-19 hospital under an agreement with the state government. Director, gas relief, Basant Kurre, had recently issued an order stating that all gas victims, who are diagnosed with coronavirus, would be admitted at Chirayu Hospital. According to Danish, cousin of Shakeel, the deceased was taken to BMHRC, where he is registered for treatment as a gas victim, at 4 pm as he was having breathing problem. The duty doctor at BMHRC found his oxygen level at 35 and suspecting coronavirus infection made a call to Chirayu Hospital, asking for ambulance. However, he was informed that there was no vacancy in the ICU, therefore the patient can’t be admitted there. As Shakeel’s condition deteriorated, the duty doctor kept him in the isolation ward and incubated him to help him breathe. Shakeel’s attendants were not prepared to shift him to Hamidia Hospital, fearing that he won’ t be treated properly there and it was better to let him be at BMHRC rather than shift him. When contacted for comments, director of Chirayu Hospital, Dr Ajay Goenka, clarified that the patient could not be admitted because there was no oxygen point available. “We have 330 beds with oxygen points. But, some of them break because of movements of the patients and the flow meter has to be replaced so that oxygen is not wasted. There were 15 such oxygen points on Thursday. Today, after discharge of several patients, 47 oxygen points are available,” he said. When asked why he doesn’t reserve some beds and some oxygen points for gas victim patients, Dr Goenka said, “A majority of my patients are from the gas-affected areas —areas like Mangalwara and Gurjarpura. Very few patients from Arera Colony or such localities come here. What difference would it make if I reserve only a few beds for gas victims? Most of my patients are gas victims.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/gas-victim-dies-as-hosp-lacks-icu-bed/articleshow/77159445.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Patna||Pulse oximeters flying off shelves in Patna||PATNA: A sudden surge in the demand for pulse oximeters, portable oxygen concentrators and infrared thermometers has been witnessed in the state capital, claim pharmacists and medical equipment suppliers. According to Ajay Choudhary, the manager of a medical store on Govind Mitra Road, nearly 10 people spend anywhere between Rs 1,600 and Rs 1,850 every day on pulse oximeters. “We are out of stock of oxygen concentrators, but have placed fresh orders because a lot of people are enquiring about them. The supply has, however, been delayed due to the statewide lockdown,” Choudhary said. While a pulse oximeter is a small, lightweight device used to monitor the amount of oxygen carried in the body, a concentrator delivers oxygen to individuals with breathing disorders. Raj Kumar Soni, who runs a pharmacy, also claimed that the demand for oximeters, oxygen concentrators and infrared thermometers had gone up considerably. “Oxygen concentrators are available in the range of Rs 58,000 to Rs 62,000. Not just the Covid-19 patients, but also those suffering from asthma and heart ailments are buying them,” he said. Supplier of medical equipment, Manish Sarraf, pointed out that the demand for oximeters gained momentum in June. He said, “Nobody bought oximeters before that, but now, they are flying off the shelves. Oxygen concentrators, on the other hand, are out of stock.” However, Indian Medical Association-Bihar chapter (IMA) secretary Dr Sunil Kumar cautioned people against the use of oxygen concentrators at home. “Without proper knowledge, an oxygen concentrator can prove to be harmful for patients. Pulse oximeters, on the contrary, can be used at home for checking the amount of oxygen in people’s blood on a regular basis. If it drops below 90, they should visit a healthcare facility,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pulse-oximeters-flying-off-shelves/articleshow/77156262.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 25, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan high court orders status quo on plea challenging Speaker’s notices||JAIPUR: Former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and his band of 18 dissident legislators got another relief when the Rajasthan high court ordered status quo on their joint plea challenging speaker CP Joshi’s disqualification notices to them for failing to attend Congress legislature party (CLP) meetings, on Friday.  The speaker would now not be able to act on the notices issued to the dissident legislators under clause 2(1)(a) of the constitution’s Schedule X. A day earlier, the Supreme Court gave first relief to the Pilot camp when it declined to stop the high court from passing the order, as desired by the speaker who had moved a special leave petition before a three-judge bench headed by justice Arun Mishra. Joshi had argued that the courts cannot interfere before the speaker takes a decision on notices issued to legislators.  Joshi’s counsel Prateek Kasliwal told TOI, “The MLAs’ writ petition has been admitted by the high court, which has ordered status quo on the speaker’s show-cause notices dated July 14. The case will now be heard in the due course.”  The court order read, “After completion of filing pleadings of the parties and the intervenors, counsel for the parties shall be at liberty to file an application for early hearing of the writ petition. Till then, the status quo, as exists today viz-a-viz impugned notices dated 14.07.2020, shall be maintained.”  A division bench comprising chief justice Indrajit Mahanty and justice Prakash Gupta that had been hearing the Pilot camp’s plea, on Friday allowed another application about allowing the Centre be party to the case, as constitutional validity of the Schedule X has been challenged. The high court has allowed time to the Centre to file its reply.  The high court admitted three prayers of the dissident legislators’ joint petition on Friday. The division bench would now hear arguments on these legal points, which included declaring clause 2(1)(a) of Schedule X to be violative of the basic structure of the constitution, declaring clause 2(1)(a) read with Article 191 as ultra vires and setting aside the speaker’s show-cause notices.  The court rejected two dissidents’ two pleas that the high court uphold their status as MLAs on account of them being still with the Congress and that their action of not attending the CLP meetings do not come within the purview of disqualification as envisaged under Para (2) of Schedule X.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/high-court-orders-status-quo-on-plea-challenging-speakers-notices/articleshow/77159479.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: 30 nursing homes lying idle can operate as Covid care units, says IMA||PUNE: Nearly 30 private nursing homes in the city that have been lying idle for over a year can be converted into Covid care centres with oxygen beds, members of the Indian Medical Association said. The nursing homes were unable to start operations because their owners couldn't secure permits after failing to meet PMC's building department norms. Some of the deviations include inadequate stairway width and other structural shortfalls. But IMA members said these nursing homes can now be regularised via conditional permits to aid in the city's Covid-19 fight. The members said the units can be installed with oxygen-supported beds to treat patients with mild to moderate illness. The IMA members also offered to run these centres along with PMC officials. “There are about 25 to 30 such private nursing homes that can easily accommodate more than 600 Covid-19 patients,” said Sanjay Patil, chairman of the IMA's Hospital Board of India (HBI), Pune chapter. He added that the HBI has requested PMC to grant these medical units special permissions, considering rising demand for beds and infection treatment centres. Some of these nursing units, IMA members said, were denied registration due to minor structural lapses. “For example, some nursing homes have left a five-metre side space for ambulance entry against the required six-metres. And in some cases, the width of the main stairway was found to be inadequate. Such minor lapses led to them lying vacant for over a year. They are not illegal structures,” Patil said. A few of the nursing homes also could not obtain permits from the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) (on proper disposal of biomedical waste) and NOCs no-objection-certificate (NOC) from PMC's fire department. “But if the PMC can grant permits on compassionate grounds, the units can operate as CCCs during this pandemic. We discussed the matter with PMC chief Vikram Kumar during a meeting on July 20,” Patil said. Ramchandra Hankare, chief of the PMC's health department, said, "We will have to scrutinize these nursing homes - on a case-to-case basis. We cannot regularise illegal structures.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/30-nursing-homes-lying-idle-can-operate-as-covid-care-units-ima/articleshow/77159505.cms||Umesh Isalkar
July 25, 2020||Nagpur||After Waddettiwar gives up Sarthi, another Congress minister to take it up: Balasaheb Thorat||NAGPUR: The Congress will retain the Chhatrapati Sahu Maharaj Research, training and human development institute (Sarthi) portfolio after the party’s Vijay Waddettiwar decided to give it up. The minister is an OBC and elected from Bramhapuri. In June, some Maratha organizations alleged that Wadettiwar was not paying attention to Sarthi, not spent the allocated funds and demanded his removal. “At a meeting of ministers, I announced that I don’t want the portfolio and anyone else can take it. At this point, Ajit Pawar (deputy CM) said he would take over Sarathi,” Waddettiwar told TOI. The institute was set up by the Devendra Fadnavis government for the welfare of Marathas. Pawar, a Maratha, convened a meeting of Sarthi and sanctioned Rs8 crore in his capacity as the finance minister. State Congress president and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat on Friday told TOI that Congress will soon announce who from the party will head Sarthi. The row over Sarthi was discussed in a meeting Thorat had with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, public works minister Ashok Chavan and Pawar. “There is no dispute, Sarthi was with the Congress and will remain with the party. Congress. Since Wadettiwar has declined to head it, it will be entrusted to another Congress minister in consultation with the CM,’’ said Thorat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-waddettiwar-gives-up-sarthi-another-cong-min-to-take-it-up-thorat/articleshow/77159511.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC swoops on showrooms, offices to unmask offenders||Ahmedabad: AMC teams are homing in on companies and showrooms to fine them for not implementing the mask rule on their premises. On Friday, Tradebulls Security Private Limited in Bodakdev was fined Rs 21,000. A raid was carried out on Concept Hyundai in the same area and it was fined Rs 5,000. Harshad Solanki, the director of the AMC’s solid waste department, said the highest fine was Rs 50,000 that was slapped on Stichmen Associates in Khokhra. A fine of Rs 10,000 was collected from Jyoti Infotech in Gota. Solanki said that the drive will not spare anybody who disregards the rule to wear masks. The drive has been extended to offices and other establishments. Most offices inspected were found ignoring the social distancing norm. The mask rule was also being flouted. Solanki said that in the case of Tradebulls, it was observed that employees were sitting close to each other. He said that when the majority of the staff was found without masks, the employees were counted and the management was fined accordingly. AMC officials said that on Friday, many were caught without masks on the city’s roads. The number of offenders had dived after the fine was increased on July 13 from Rs 200 to Rs 500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-swoops-on-showrooms-offices-to-unmask-offenders/articleshow/77157858.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Hyderabad||July 24, 1991 set tone for liberalisation||Hyderabad: The inaugural of PV Narasimha Rao’s year-long birth centenary celebrations by Congress coincided with July 24, the first budget presented by Rao’s government ushering in economic reforms and liberalisation on July 24, 1991. While KCR launched the centenary fete of Rao on June 28 on the occasion of his birth anniversary, Telangana Congress chose July 24. Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy said he did not wish to politicise the attempts being made to appropriate the legacy of Rao, but the Congress party welcomed all the events being organised in honour of Rao. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/july-24-1991-set-tone-for-liberalisation/articleshow/77159453.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Total lockdown from 5pm||Coimbatore: Lockdown will remain in force in the district from 5pm today till 6am on Monday, collector K Rajamani said. Only essential supplies such as milk and medicines will be allowed, a statement from the collector said. “Uzhavar sandhai, grocery shops, fish markets, flower markets, meat stalls, Tasmac liquor shops and other firms will remain closed. Those who violate the lockdown will be booked.” Public health, revenue, local body and police department officials will work during the lockdown period. The collector requested people to cooperate with the district administration to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The district had reported 238 Covid-19 positive cases on Thursday and 189 cases on Friday. The number of cases is on the rise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/total-lockdown-from-5pm/articleshow/77159513.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Goa||Goa: Active Covid tally drops, number of pending test results crosses 6,000||PANAJI: The state’s active Covid-19 tally dropped to 1,646 on Friday even as 190 new infections were detected, over 200 persons were declared cured and discharged, the highest single-day recovery figure since the pandemic began. As the number of pending case reports grows higher every day, health secretary Nila Mohanan said that more samples are now collected due to the rise in cases. As of Friday, 6,227 test results were awaited. “Naturally, pendency is on the rise, but we’re also taking all measures,” she said. “Our labs are working 24x7 and pending figures are closely being monitored.” She also said more areas being declared containment zones means more testing. Also, since last week, messages are being sent through the Aarogya Setu app to people to come forward for testing. Additionally, the sample load has risen since travellers to Goa are also being tested. On average, the state does 2,600-2,700 tests a day, and there are days when that figure touches 3,000, she said. “Testing capacity has been enhanced and one more machine has been bought for the South Goa district hospital,” she said, adding that approvals are in process for procuring two machines for the Ponda sub-district hospital. While the number of cases goes up every day, Mohanan said that the government doesn’t have any immediate plans of opening another Covid hospital since occupancy at the ESI-Covid hospital in Margao remains at under 50%. “There is a plan for the future, but right now, we don’t need it,” she said. Last week, the state government issued a directive to private hospitals with ICU facilities to reserve 20% of their beds for Covid patients. Mohanan said that one hospital has done so, and that compliance reports have been sought from others. Also, two private hospitals in the state have been granted permission to commence antigen testing. Meanwhile, since the government has now allowed asymptomatic patients to quarantine themselves at home, Mohanan said that two applications for the same have been received. As per the government, for an asymptomatic patient to stay home, they must get permission from the collectorate on recommendation of the health officers concerned. On Friday, the commercial capital of Margao saw 20 cases, taking its total up to 92. Other places that witnessed a rise in cases include Vasco, Panaji, Colvale, Aldona, Candolim, Siolim, Porvorim, Loutolim and Sanguem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/active-covid-tally-drops-pending-test-results-cross-6k/articleshow/77160330.cms||Bindiya Chari
July 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Radar on tertiary contacts in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Several cases of tertiary contacts—people who are testing positive for Covid-19 without having any travel history or coming in contact with any infected person— are being reported in the district. Such cases are posing a challenge to the health administration for improving contact testing. Currently, officials are going by the 1:10 formula of tracing and testing contacts as has been stipulated by the state government. As per this formula, for every one Covid-19 positive person, 10 people who have come in contact within the last five days of the infected person showing symptoms are traced. Officials said there was a need for increasing tracing of contacts. District health officer Yogesh Sale said, “Currently, local transmission is evident. We are now finding the tertiary contacts. In such cases, we don’t just rely on the contacts provided by the patient, we have to go further by contacting the people at work, relatives, friends and locality. Currently, we are tracing and testing the contacts as per the guidelines. We are going to increase the rate of tracing contacts.” Sale said so far, there were very few tertiary contacts from the district who were testing positive for the contagion. Health officials said that the lockdown had helped to contain the spread of the virus to tertiary contacts which were difficult to trace given the availability of staff on ground. The Covid-19 tally in the district has reached to 3,400. So far, 34,500 low-risk and high-risk contacts of Covid-19 patients have been traced. Health workers on the field are facing a huge challenge to trace the contacts mainly because of the tendency of the patients to hide details of contacts. In such cases, the health workers have to make appeals in the locality urging people to come forward for screening. “We are ensuring that the health workers on the ground are listing the contacts judiciously. We have also asked them to note down the phone numbers of all those who have come in contact with the positive persons in the last ten days,” said Sale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/radar-on-tertiary-contacts-in-kolhapur/articleshow/77156268.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Pune||Now, walk in to get checked for Covid-19 in PMC limits||Pune: Citizens would now be able to walk in to any of the five centres set up by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) across the city for Covid-19 antigen test. No doctor’s prescription would be required for the test, officials stated. Every day, 100 citizens would be able to take the test to check if they are infected with the Coronavirus. The antigen tests would be carried out at discounted rates, said officials. “Citizens will be able to carry out the test without any need for a doctor’s prescription. If anybody feels that s/he has symptoms, s/he can go directly to these centres and get himself / herself tested,” Sanjeev Wavare, assistant medical health officer of PMC told TOI. According to PMC officials, 6,500 tests were carried out across the municipal limits in the last few days. They include rapid antigen tests, tests at private hospitals and at hospitals run by the civic body. According to PMC officials, the initiative has been taken to increase the number of tests and ensure that citizens have the option of availing the test near their place of residence. “The civic administration has received complaints of overcharging against private labs conducting these tests from citizens. This problem can also be resolved to some extent,” said a senior official of PMC. The civic body has also decided to set up screening centres at 15 ward offices in the city. The civic administration has also planned to carry out around 2 lakh antigen tests. One lakh kits have been procured for the purpose. Around 20,000 tests have been carried out till date. Private labs charge between Rs 2,200 and Rs 2,800 for antigen test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/now-walk-in-to-get-checked-for-covid-19-in-pmc-limits/articleshow/77157852.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Covid-19: One death in Thiruvananthapuram, mayor & 4 councillors under quarantine||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: City mayor K Sreekumar went under home quarantine on Friday. The mayor has taken the step after seven members of the city corporation council were tested positive on Wednesday and Thursday. Sreekumar said that he was not in primary contact with any of the councillors who have tested positive. Yet, he has opted home quarantine as a precautionary measure. He also gave his samples for an RT-PCR test. “I have decided to stay under home quarantine till the test result arrives,” Sreekumar said, adding that the result is expected in one or two days. It was on Wednesday, the first batch of four councillors tested Covid positive. On Thursday, three more were confirmed positive. TOI had reported that more councillors may be at risk as the mayor had convened two meetings – on last Saturday and on Wednesday – to review the Covid-19 operations of the corporation. All seven councillors who have tested positive have been shifted to Covid first-line treatment centres. Besides mayor, four other councillors are under home quarantine. Among them, one is a councillor of a coastal ward that lies close to a critical containment zone and is hence being treated as a buffer zone. The three others were in primary contact with three councillors who tested positive. Meanwhile, on Friday, 167 cases were reported in the district out of which 156 are cases of local transmission. The cases include five healthcare workers, including two doctors. One death was also reported. 46-year-old Murugan from Chirayinkeezhu is the deceased. At present the district has five major clusters: Poonthura, Pulluvila, Putuhukurichi, Anjuthengu and Beemapally. The total number of active cases in the district is 2,650, which is the highest in the state. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the community spread found in the two coastal hamlets of the state capital have been put under control. At present, there are five large clusters in these coastal areas and from two clusters there are incidents of spreading to neighbouring regions. Special cluster containment measures are in place here. At present 17 FLTCs have been kept ready in which 2,103 beds have been made available. If needed, 18 more FLTCS will be ready in a week in which 1,817 beds will be ready. In the last ten days, out of the 671 samples taken from Pulluvila alone, 288 were found positive, he said. The total number of people who are put under observation is 16,122 of which 1,295 people are under institutional quarantine. As many as 2,486 people are under observation in hospitals. The district collector had a meeting with the owners of the private hospitals and IMA to seek the support of the private sector in Covid care. In the meeting, it was decided to utilize the services of the hospitals in the private sector which are not functioning now. These hospitals will be converted into first-line treatment centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/city-mayor-four-councillors-under-quarantine/articleshow/77157859.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Lucknow||Aggressive testing keeps UP’s Covid +ve rate under control||LUCKNOW: Aggressive testing has helped UP keep the case positivity rate (CPR) or the number of persons turning positive among those tested to around 4% despite the significant rise in the number of cases over July. “Latest state wise positivity chart shows that the CPR in Uttar Pradesh has remained under 4% when compared to other big states. Also, while the country has seen a rise of 2% over the last 4 weeks, UP’s COVID positivity has gone up by just 0.2 points. Aggressive testing has been our strength,” remarked Alok Kumar, secretary to UP CM tracking covid-19 testing situation in the state. According to the WHO, a CPR in the range of 3-12% indicated that the number of tests being done were ‘fairly extensive’. “Testing at the level often negative tests to one positive is a general benchmark of a system that’s doing enough testing to pick up all cases,” reads a statement in this regard. An assessment undertaken by UP of data (till July 19) showed that the CPR of Maharashtra was 19.9% while that of Telangana was 16.8%. The CPR of Delhi, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu was 14.9%, 9% and 8.9% respectively. Rajasthan was better than UP with a CPR of 2.4%. Stating that the test was the main pillar on goals of containment, patient isolation, contact tracing, case management and mortality prevention was dependent, experts acknowledge the hard work put in by the UP government so far. “The efforts to ramp up testing have been good so far. They have helped a lot to ensure that UP remains ahead of the pandemic growth curve. However, the hard work needs to be sustained well,” said Dr Vishwajeet Kumar, epidemiologist and public health expert. He added that testing was the only reliable tool with governments to ensure that public health systems are not overwhelmed by cases. “Considering that factors need to weaken and break the chain were difficult to control – particularly steps like ensuring physical distance and making people wear masks – testing is our best bet,” he said adding, "Factors like movement of people from high case load areas to low caseload places and population density were almost impossible to check." .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aggressive-testing-keeps-ups-covid-ve-rate-under-control/articleshow/77160268.cms||Shailvee Sharda
July 25, 2020||Kochi||NIA seizes Rs 1 crore, 1kg gold from Swapna’s bank lockers||KOCHI: National Investigation Agency (NIA), probing the gold smuggling case, seized over Rs 1 crore and gold ornaments weighing nearly 1 kg form the lockers owned by Swapna Suresh. This was stated in the remand report it submitted in NIA court on Friday. The report named KT Ramees, one of the masterminds of the operation, as an accused. It added that A-4 (Sandeep Nair) had indicated ‘suspected unlawful activities of Ramees which would affect national security’ and that the same was being investigated. Even as Swapna’s counsel claimed that the money and gold seized by NIA were gifts she received during her wedding, the agency stated that Swapna ‘disclosed that she had kept proceeds from the crime in the locker and invested it as deposits at various banks’. “... Rs 36.5 lakh in Indian currency kept in the safe deposit locker of A-2 (Swapna) maintained at Federal Bank, Statue Branch, Thiruvananthapuram, Rs 64 lakhs in Indian currency and 982.5g of gold ornaments kept in the safe deposit locker A-2 maintained at SBI Thiruvananthapuram city branch have been seized on 23-7-20 in the presence of witnesses,” said the report, adding that other locations, where proceeds from crime have been kept, are under investigation. Swapna’s counsel said that keeping a kilo of her gold ornaments in a bank locker is not a crime. Sources said that NIA will refer the seizures to enforcement directorate and income tax department for further action. The report also talked about the duo revealing their mode of communication with co-accused and other suspects in the case. It said their role in the larger conspiracy of the crime must be investigated. NIA said further custody of accused is needed as analysis of seized digital materials are underway at C-DAC. Meanwhile, NIA is likely to seek the custody of Ramees, who is in the custody of Customs. Ramees is linked to several co-accused who were arrested by Customs later. The report said Swapna and Sandeep said that Ramees insisted on smuggling gold, in large quantities, maximum times during lockdown. The report was filed on completion of their 12-day NIA custody. They were produced in NIA court and remanded in judicial custody till August 21. Swapna told the court that she was facing mental stress. Earlier in the day, first accused Sarith was produced in court after his week-long custody expired. He too was sent in judicial custody till August 21. NIA sought more time when Swapna’s bail application came up for consideration stating that additional solicitor general will appear for the agency. Bail plea would be heard on Wednesday.#||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nia-seizes-rs-1-cr-1kg-gold-from-swapnas-bank-lockers/articleshow/77156281.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Bhopal||Need public help to break chain of infection: Madhya Pradesh CM||BHOPAL: Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, on Friday appealed to people of the state to help in defeating coronavirus by breaking the chain of infection. “The chain of infection must be broken under any circumstances by maintaining physical distancing and sanitation at home,” he said. The chief minister further stated, the constant increase in the positive cases of coronavirus s during the unlock is a matter of concern. Lockdown at Bhopal and some other places is being imposed for the welfare of the people. Efforts made in the last three-four months for controlling coronavirus has resulted in tremendous succes. But, now keeping in view the present situation, there is a need to take more precautions and to follow the Covid- 19 protocol, he said. Chouhan said that lockdown has been imposed in Bhopal from Friday, July 24 for a period of 10 days. All people must cooperate to make it successful. Instructions have been given to make available the essential commodities like milk, vegetables and medicines to the citizens in the city. Chouhan called upon the common man to celebrate festivals in a symbolic manner. "Do not celebrate Ganesh Utsav at public places, do not set out Taziya processions and do not hold religious programmes. People can celebrate festivals at home.” Hence, I request all not to come out of the houses unnecessarily,” he said He said unlocking has made people careless and necessary precautions were not followed. “People in large number started visiting markets while parties were also held. Arrangement was made for participation of people in limited numbers from both the sides in marriage ceremonies but this was not followed at several places. Many people even did not follow the protocol of mandatory wearing of mask. This resulted in increase in number of positive patients. Coronavirus infection, which was under control till June started increasing in the month of July. This increase in numbers is a matter of concern. We will have to contain Coronavirus pandemic under any circumstances,” he said. The chief minister said that there is a need to enforce measure in effective manner to break the chain of growing infection in Nasrullaganj, Sironj, Morena, Gwalior and other places. For this, necessary precautions must be followed. If we don’t take precautions then we will be compelled to move towards lockdown from unlock, Chouhan said that this year the Independence Day Celebration programmes will not be organised in a grand manner but will be held with presence of people in limited numbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-need-public-help-to-break-chain-of-infection/articleshow/77159455.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Aurangabad||3 brothers, 2 others drown in pond near Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Five youngsters, three of them siblings, drowned in ‘Nathsagar’, a water pond near Varzhadi village behind Shendra MIDC, about 20km from here, on Friday. Nine youngsters had gone to Varzhadi to pluck cauliflower and were returning home. Some of them decided to swim and entered the pond without realising how deep it was, said police. The deceased have been identified as Sameer Mubarak Shaikh, Ansar Sattar Shaikh (both 17), and three brothers Taleb Yusuf Shaikh (21), Ateeq (18) and Sohel (16), all of them from Bhalgaon. Inspector Mahesh Andhale of the Chikalthana police station said, “Some of the youngster did not know how to swim but still entered the water and started drowning. The other youths entered the water to save them, but totally five of them drowned.” The youths who did not enter the water raised an alarm, following which villagers reached the spot and alerted police and the fire brigade. It took divers and villagers hours to fish out the bodies, which were sent for autopsy at the Government Medical College and Hospital. Police registered a case of accidental death while the process of recording the statements of witnesses and villagers was under way till late.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/3-brothers-2-others-drown-in-pond-near-aurangabad/articleshow/77290421.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 25, 2020||Nagpur||HC allows GN Saibaba to amend plea||NAGPUR: The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Friday allowed Naxal ideologue GN Saibaba to amend his petition for including prayer for granting temporary bail. He had knocked HC’s doors for bail citing Covid-19 cases inside Nagpur Central Jail. It was staunchly opposed by state government through counsel Prashant Sathianathan stating that his bail was already rejected by court on March 25 last year. Moreover, Saibaba isn’t suffering from coronavirus and all care is being taken to keep him safe and healthy, the state had said. Sathianathan added that the Delhi university professor is in a good health. The HC then adjourned the hearing till July 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-allows-saibaba-to-amend-plea/articleshow/77159522.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Water cuts in four wards on Monday||Kolhapur: A, B, C and D wards of Kolhapur city will be facing water cuts on Monday as the civic body will undertake repair work of leakages in the pipelines carrying water from Chambukhadi pumping station and Balinga pumping station. The officials of the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) said the repair work will end in a day and the water supply will be at low pressure on Tuesday morning, but from the afternoon, the supply will be normal. Both the main pipelines, which carry water to the filter plants, have major leakages. The areas which will face water cuts are Phulewadi ring road, Aptenagar, Sane Guruji Vasahat, Crusher Chowk, Laskhtirth Vasahat, Jaulacha Ganpati area, Uma Talkies and the entire old city areas. The officials said water supply to E ward, the largest of the five wards, will remain normal as they will get water from Shinganapur pumping station. Apart from KMC’s water tankers, private tankers will be roped to provide water to the affected areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/water-cuts-in-four-wards-on-monday/articleshow/77156291.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Allow us to tap neera: Farmers||Coimbatore: Cops are not allowing them to tap neera from coconut trees, farmers in Sulur said. In a petition to superintendent of police Ara Arularasu on Friday, the farmers said that cops are breaking pots containing the drink, alleging that they were tapping toddy. “The government has allowed neera tapping. But cops are harassing us and our workers, saying that we are tapping toddy for sales,” the petition, submitted by the members of Narayanasamy Naidu Farmers' Association, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/allow-us-to-tap-neera-farmers/articleshow/77159524.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Coimbatore||BJP, TPDK cadres hold protests||Coimbatore: Right and left-wing organisations continued to cross swords over the Kanda Sashti Kavacham row on Friday. BJP functionaries conducted a protest in front of the party office on VKK Menon Road. The protesters performed kavadi aattam (burden dance) to worship Lord Murugan and chanted Kanda Sashti Kavacham. BJP urban district president R Nandakumar demanded the arrest of those behind YouTube channel Karuppar Koottam for using derogatory words against the Lord. “They should be arrested and detained under the Goondas Act. The state government should declare Thaipoosam festival a public holiday,” he said. Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam (TPDK) functionaries attempted to besiege the district police office on Friday, demanding action against those who posted derogatory message against Periyar E V Ramasamy on social media. But a police team stopped them near the BSNL office. The protesters demanded the arrest of BJP member Nanda from Annur, who posted a defamatory message against Periyar on his Facebook page on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bjp-tpdk-cadres-hold-protests/articleshow/77159517.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Bhopal||VD Sharma clears Covid test, but min’s PA infected||BHOPAL: While BJP state president VD Sharma and state organisation secretary Suhas Bhagat tested negative for Covid-19, the personal assistant of minister Arvind Bhadoria tested positive for the diseases. Bhadoria had tested positive late on Wednesday night, after which samples of over 20 people who had come in contact with the minister were taken. An official said, the PA of the minister has been admitted at a hospital and all protocols are being followed. Meanwhile, Sharma and Bhagat, who had accompanied Bhadoria to Lucknow to attend the funeral of MP Governor Lalji Tandon, tested negative “After Arvind Bhadoria tested positive we went for Covid-19 tests and on Friday we received our report which is negative,” Bhagat told TOI. Arvind Bhadoria is a cabinet minister and MLA from Bhind, was hospitalised in Bhopal at 2 am on Thursday. “I had sore throat. I went for the Covid-19 test. My test report was known at 12.30 am. I rushed to the hospital and got admitted,” said Bhadoria in a video statement. He has asked those who came in contact with him to get themselves tested. He is also the MP BJP vice president and MP cooperative minister. Bhadoria recently attended a MP cabinet meeting too. He was seen embracing a BJP colleague from after cabinet meeting on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/vd-sharma-clears-covid-test-but-mins-pa-infected/articleshow/77159494.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Lucknow||Covid patients’ kin advised hydroxychloroquine doses||LUCKNOW: The family members of asymptomatic positive persons serving home isolation must ask for hydroxychloroquine drugs from health workers to ensure that they stay safe, said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad on Friday. “As per instructions from the Union ministry of health and family welfare, very close family members of a laboratory testedcoronavirus positive person are eligible for prophylactic use of hydroxychloroquine. Therefore, they must ask for the same when health teams reach out to them,” Prasad said, adding that the state had enough stock of the essential medicine. “The state has procured the medicine in ample quantities and also provided them to districts. So there is no dearth of the medicine which is to be provided free of cost,” he said. Health officials, however, warned that the medicine should not be misused at any cost. They also said that the drug is not meant for children below 15 years of age even for preventive reasons. Those with a known case of retinopathy or are allergic to compounds belonging to the aminoquinoline category are also excluded. They suggested that persons on this drug must reach out to doctors in case they show any symptoms like fever, cough or breathing difficulty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-patients-kin-advised-hydroxychloroquine-doses/articleshow/77160344.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Hyderabad||3 of a family die in mishap at Munagala||Hyderabad: Three members of a migrant worker’s family from Krishna district died in a road accident in Munagala on NH-65. The deceased were identified as Naga Malleswara Rao, 42, his wife Mamoollamma, 35, and their daughter Durga, 16. Rao’s five year old son Konda Babu suffered severe injuries in the accident. According to Munagala SI Satyanarayana Goud, the mishap occurred at around 5pm when a speeding SUV coming from Vijayawada to Hyderabad rammed a car parked on the roadside. Rao, his wife and their daughter died on the spot with critical injuries. Konda Babu, who suffered severe injuries, was rushed to Kodad government hospital. Police said that his condition is critical. “The accident happened due to overspeeding and rash driving The driver of the SUV failed to negotiate a curve on the road and after brushing against the median, the SUV swerved left and rammed into the parked car,” the SI said. The accused was identified as R Anurag, an engineering student. Police said that Anurag was travelling to Hyderabad along with his family members when the mishap occurred. A case was registered against him under sections 337 and 304-A of the IPC. He has been taken into custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-of-a-family-die-in-mishap-at-munagala/articleshow/77159515.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Few citizens found moving on roads||Kolhapur: As shops and other establishments remained shut for the fifth consecutive day of the seven-day lockdown in Kolhapur district, some citizens were found moving on the roads for a while on Friday. In some places, the local farmers were seen selling their produce at corners of various lanes. The locals with no grocery shops open in their areas, rushed to the farmers selling vegetables. Ahead of Nagpanchami, that will be celebrated on Saturday, clay idols of snakes were being sold outside closed shops. Some citizens gathered near their houses or basements of their buildings to spend some time. Shirish Parmar, a resident of Rajarampuri said, “Lockdown should not be extended as we have been out of business since the last four months.” District guardian minister Satej Patil will likely hold a meeting with the district authorities and elected representatives about the extension of the lockdown.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/few-citizens-found-moving-on-roads/articleshow/77156313.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||July records 81% rise in active cases||Ahmedabad: With the update on Friday evening, Gujarat has 12,518 active Covid-19 positive cases, which are 23.3% of the total cases recorded so far. The share of deceased and discharged patients is 4.3% and 72.4% respectively. Analysis of the cases reveal that the state added 5,590 active cases in the past 24 days, recording a rise of 81% from 6,928 on June 30.The new cases included 309 from Surat, 176 from Ahmedabad, 92 from Vadodara and 59 from Rajkot. Vadodara now has 3,994 cases in the district. Ahmedabad city recorded a single-day drop in cases from 187 on Thursday to 161 on Friday as Surat city regained the top spot with 216 cases. On Thursday, Surat city had recorded 181 cases.The deaths included 12 from Surat district, three each in Ahmedabad, Kutch and Vadodara, followed by one each in Mehsana, Rajkot, Tapi, Gandhinagar and Jamnagar. With the update, Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara now have cumulative death tolls of 1,568, and 335 and 65 respectively.A total of 872 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total figure of discharged patients to 38,830. These discharges include 227 from Surat, 204 from Ahmedabad, 138 from Rajkot, and 48 from Vadodara.The state health department on Friday claimed that they have ramped up Covid testing and currently 224 tests per million population are being conducted daily. The state carried out 14,595 Covid tests in 24 hours, taking the total test count to 6.06 lakh. Gujarat has 3.5 lakh persons in home quarantine as on Friday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/july-records-81-rise-in-active-cases/articleshow/77157883.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Kochi||Kerala gold smuggling case: Customs records arrest of Swapna, Sandeep||KOCHI: Commissionerate of Customs (Preventive) (CCP) – probing the gold smuggling case – recorded the arrest of accused Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair on Friday. With this, Customs have arrested 16 persons in the case. The duo, arrested by National Investigation Agency from Bengaluru, was in NIA custody till date and CCP recorded their arrests only after getting permission from NIA court to formally record their arrests. Sources said Customs visited the NIA office in Kochi on Friday morning to complete the procedure of recording a statement under Section 108 of the Customs Act to arrest them later. The questioning at NIA office was also done with the permission of NIA court. Later on Friday, CCP moved the court seeking permission to record their arrests. The court heard the petition and permitted the same. Sources said that their formal arrests were recorded when the duo was produced in court on Friday evening. Sources said CCP would approach additional chief judicial magistrate court (economic offences), Ernakulam with a petition seeking a production warrant against the accused so that they can be taken into custody and interrogated. Enforcement Directorate is slated to move district principal sessions court seeking custody of the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/customs-records-arrest-of-swapna-sandeep/articleshow/77156378.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: 12 cellphones seized from prisoners||GURUGRAM: Twelve mobile phones were recovered from inmates of Bhondsi jail on Friday, a day after the deputy jail superintendent was arrested for smuggling drugs and SIM cards inside the state’s largest prison. Some of the phones were recovered from notorious criminals, who are known to operate their gangs from inside the jail. Sources said that apart from phones and drugs, TVs, cigarettes and bidis are also available for inmates against a price. Earlier too, phones were recovered from inmates here. Dharambir Chautala, who was caught red-handed receiving a 250 gram packet of charas and 11 SIM cards from a drug peddler in his quarters, was the senior-most deputy jailer in the state in terms of experience. He was expected to be promoted as the jail superintendent soon. His colleagues said Chautala would often go around saying that he was slated to become the next chief of Bhondsi jail. He, however, has a chequered past. Chautala was transferred from Gurugram in 2017 after a large number of mobile phones were found with inmates of Bhondsi jail. The officer was surprisingly brought back in December 2018. But because of his dubious past, Chautala was kept away from overseeing the security of the jail. Instead, he was posted as the in charge of the manufacturing unit, where different items such as hand bags, masks and files are made by inmates. A jail official said Chautala used his position to sneak in phones and SIM cards. Being a high ranked official, no one would usually check him. “The deputy jailer was ready to provide all kinds of services to inmates against a price,” the official said. For instance, a smartphone would be available for Rs 1 lakh, while a normal cellphone that usually costs around Rs 2,000 in the market would be given to an inmate for Rs 50,000. A SIM card costs around Rs 20,000 inside the jail, while a gram of sulfa, the most common drug, is available for Rs 4,000. Sources said there was a fixed price for every item — Rs 2,000 for a packet of cigarettes and Rs 500 for a bundle of bidi. Inmates can also get a separate cell with an attached toilet for Rs 2 lakh and a TV set for Rs 1 lakh. Police have agreed that the increasing use of mobiles by inmates has posed a challenge to preventing crime as plans are being hatched inside the jail. At least two murders committed in the past two months are believed to have been planned by criminals lodged in the jail. “The murder of a businessman in Sohna two weeks ago and that of a property dealer in Pataudi in June were plotted there,” an official said. “More than drugs, it is the easy availability of mobile phones inside the jail that is a major cause for concern,” a senior police officer said. ACP (crime) Preet Pal Sangwan confirmed that the search in Bhondsi jail had yielded 12 phones. “A separate case has been registered at Bhondsi police station in this regard,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/day-after-deputy-jailers-arrest-12-phones-found-with-bhondsi-jail-inmates/articleshow/77159561.cms||Bagish Jha
July 25, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Virudhunagar district crosses 5,000 Covid cases||VIRUDHUNAGAR: Virudhunagar district crossed the 5,000 mark in Covid-19 cases on Friday with the addition of 424 fresh ones, recording over 1,600 in the last four days. The spurt in cases has caused concern in the industrialised district as thousands of people work in close quarters in the fireworks and matchwork factories. In all, 207 of the 480 fresh cases on Thursday were from Sivakasi, the fireworks hub. While it took 102 days for Virudhunagar to report the 1000th case, it had taken only two days to add the last 1,000 cases. However 2,947 people have been discharged after recovery while 2,203 are undergoing treatment. Positivity rate on Thursday and Friday is close to 29% with results coming for nearly 1,500 samples a day. Virudhunagar, Sivakasi, Rajapalayam and Aruppukottai towns and the villages around them remain the hotspots. President of the Tamil Nadu Fireworks and Amorces Manufacturers’ Association (TANFAMA) P Ganesan said that about 30 to 40 of the 1,070 factories had been closed in Sivakasi, after some of their workers tested positive. The spike in cases witnessed since last week has been ascribed to the increased testing. The daily testing capacity of the district was only 1,000 samples till last week, done at three labs, which has been increased to 2,500 from Monday. “We have a backlog of over 9,000 samples at laboratories across the state including 3,500 in Chennai. We increased sample collection to 3,000 today (Friday) and will scale it up to 3,500 a day from tomorrow (Saturday),” Virudhunagar collector R Kannan said. Government and private laboratories in Madurai and Theni are expected to help the district clear the backlog. The collector said that the spread of the virus has not affected the functioning of industrial units. Firework units were instructed to maintain social distancing and make facilities for a doctor to be available in the vicinity among other safety measures. “We have warned to cancel the licence of buses as well as units that bring more than 30 employees,” he added. The fireworks factories which closed down due to the lockdown reopened on May 7 and all 1,070 started functioning. On normal days, social distancing is a question in these units as workers work within closed quarters in tiny sheds. Though the number of workers has come down, there still are about 2 lakh now. Another two lakh people are employed indirectly as they work from their homes and supply wicks and cases to the industries. Matchwork industry is another one that provides largescale employment in and around Sivakasi and Arupukottai, and the printing industry. They were allowed to start functioning with 50% strength. Contacts of some working in fireworks units had tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/virudhunagar-industries-in-a-fix-as-dist-cases-cross-5k/articleshow/77159556.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Nagpur||Mundhe suspends 9 NMC employees for dereliction of duty||NAGPUR: Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on Friday suspended nine employees of health department (sanitation), including sanitation inspector and zonal health officer, after they were found missing from duties. Mundhe visited the NMC headquarters in Civil Lines at around 6am on Friday, and found four night shift employees deployed at Corona Control Room were not carrying out their assigned responsibilities properly. Later, he visited City Operation Centre and verified whether sanitary workers and inspectors were doing their jobs sincerely or not. He also tracked their location through GPS wrist watches allotted to them. He also crossed-checked their locations by visiting a few spots. Later, he suspended five sanitary employees for dereliction of duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mundhe-suspends-9-nmc-employees-for-dereliction-of-duty/articleshow/77159529.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: Sanghumugham road to be renovated soon||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Minister Kadakampally Surendran has said tender procedures of a Rs.4.5-crore project to restore Shanghumugham Beach Road has been completed and work would commence soon. He was speaking after visiting the road that was destroyed in coastal erosion. He said that he has submitted before the government a proposal of a Rs.6 crore project to implement permanent measures to safeguard the region from coastal erosion. Regions between Veli and Valiyathura have been affected by coastal erosion for the past few days. Many of the houses of fishermen located close to the shore are under threat from rough waves that have been lashing the shore at great strength. The district administration has initiated steps to rehabilitate families who are at risk from coastal erosion.  The collector has also instructed irrigation department, PWD and Kerala road fund board officials to submit a study report on restoring the beach roads. Mayor K Sreekumar said he has assigned the health inspector of beach wing to coordinate works of dumping sand bags along the shoreline to reduce the impact of waves that hit the shore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sanghumugham-road-to-be-renovated-soon/articleshow/77157896.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Delhi||Vaccine paradox: Why antibodies don’t help||NEW DELHI: The trials for the Covid-19 vaccine at AIIMS Delhi are up against a peculiar problem: some volunteers already have antibodies against the novel coronavirus. While this is good news for the city because it indicates that a large number of people have already been infected without becoming symptomatic, it makes the task of finding local test volunteers for the vaccine that much harder. AIIMS Delhi is conducting the phase I trial of the indigenous Covaxin for Covid alongside 11 other medical institutions in the country. The institute has to harness 100 volunteers for the trial. Sources said that nearly 3,500 people have registered to participate in the trial, a little over 50% of them from other states. “All participants have to undergo compulsory screening for pre-existing illnesses and Covid antibodies,” explained a doctor. “The screening of the first lot of volunteers from Delhi-NCR revealed that many of them already have antibodies against the coronavirus and are, therefore, ineligible for the trial.” Selecting local people is important because it then becomes easier for AIIMS to monitor and manage any side effects of the volunteers. A serological surveillance in Delhi recently revealed that 23.5% of the people had developed antibodies against Covid. Dr N K Mehra, emeritus scientist at Indian Council of Medical Research and former dean of AIIMS, told TOI that the actual number of people with antibodies could be even higher. “It is important to exclude people who are already infected and have developed antibodies against because this is something the vaccine attempts to do,” Dr Mehra explained. Vaccines contain the pathogens that cause the disease, and the Covid vaccine too has genetically engineered Covid-causing coronavirus. According to the US Central for Disease Control and Prevention, a vaccine stimulates an individual’s immune system to produce antibodies, exactly like if that person was exposed to the disease. “After getting vaccinated, you develop immunity to that disease without having got the disease,” the US health body said. “This is what makes vaccines such powerful medicine. Unlike medicines that treat or cure diseases, vaccines prevent them.” However, if a person already has antibodies in his system against a particular virus, it would be difficult to assess whether the vaccine helped trigger an immune reaction. Dr Mehra said ICMR was doing a great job in accelerating the research along with institutions such as AIIMS Delhi. “In India, we are exposed to higher microbial loads compared with western countries. That’s why our immunity is more robust. We have also been exposed to coronaviruses that cause common flu which may be giving some immunity against the new pathogen,” he added. Watch Covid-19 vaccine trial at AIIMS faces unusual problem||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/vaccine-paradox-why-antibodies-dont-help/articleshow/77158001.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
July 25, 2020||Nagpur||Principals of CBSE schools demand aid||YAVATMAL: Principals of schools affiliated to the central board of secondary education (CBSE) met RDC Lalitkumar Warhade and additional SP Noorul Hassan on Friday and submitted a memorandum citing various problems, particularly financial. The delegation was led by the principal of Yavatmal Public School Dr Jacob Das. Jawaharlal Darda English Medium School principal Mini Thomas, principal of St Alosyous English Medium School Sr Maria Jagtap, Poddar International School principal Prafulla Chapate, School of Scholars principal Narendra Chauhan, Pandharkawda-based Gurukul English Medium School principal Vijay Deshpande, Maregaon-based Scholars International School principal Manu R Nair and Digras-based Gurukul English School principal Sheikh Abeda Begum briefed the authorities about the financial crisis faced by the schools and the reluctance of parents to pay the fees. The directions of the court as well as the government have created confusion among parents. There are self styled leaders who are spreading rumours among the parents and they are even indulging in threatening the management sans any local standi in the school. “We have granted various facilities such as payment of fees on a quarterly basis, but parents are unwilling to cooperate. The situation has pushed schools to an unprecedented financial crisis. Teachers and the other staff were regularly paid their salary from the savings of the schools. But if the present situation continues, the schools won’t be able to pay employees,” said Dr Das, adding that online classes right from KG 1 to class XII are being carried out uninterruptedly. “We have not hiked fees for the academic year 2020-21despite skyrocketing expenditure,” said Thomas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/principals-of-cbse-schools-demand-aid/articleshow/77159626.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Nagpur||How effective are lockdowns? Jury is still out||Nagpur: The city will follow two days of janata curfew this weekend. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe has also made it clear that he will enforce at least 14-day complete curfew-like lockdown, if people don’t follow Covid distancing rules, and adapt lifestyle changes as per new normal. However, several districts in Vidarbha have already followed this model of weekend lockdown, or various other models of lockdown in July. Data from four districts in Vidarbha which experienced total lockdowns of various durations this month shows that these restrictions hardly reduce the number of Covid-19 cases or deaths. In fact, in many instances, the surge in cases remained the same or even went up during the lockdown. Chandrapur observed complete lockdown between July 17 and 20, and highest number of cases were registered in these four days. Buldhana is under lockdown from July 7 and cases are still surging along with Covid-19 deaths. Same applies to Akola, Washim and Amravati. “Lockdown reduces the speed of infection. But, number of cases can surge during the period of lockdown. This is because most of these patients are reported before the lockdown,” said Hrusheekesh Modak, district collector of Washim. According to him, many factors, including projection of patients, are studied before declaring lockdown in districts. “Cases will reduce post lockdown period for some days. But, they will grow again for sure after life returns to normal. But, this post-lockdown breathing period gives administration the valuable time to enhance health facilities,” Modak added. Akola’s resident deputy collector Sanjay Khadse claimed that the effect of four-day lockdown was positive. “Number of cases may be same or more than usual, but we have been implementing containment measures very effectively during lockdown. Akola is the first municipal corporation in Maharashtra to have got Covid-19 infections under control,” he claimed. Doctors have different opinion. Physician Dr Ajay Sahu said that mere lockdown is not enough. “Instead of imposing a lockdown, we must increase testing for Covid-19. Process to get tested should be simple, waiting period must be less, and facilities like home quarantine and home isolation should start. This will bring more presumptive patients out at early stage and increase recovery rate further,” he said. A senior doctor on the state’s advisory panel, requesting anonymity, said lockdowns for short periods would not have any impact given the incubation period of novel coronavirus. “The idea of a lockdown was good when the source of the infection was known and the administration was trying to limit its spread. Now, in most of Maharashtra, there is localised community transmission. In such a situation, the lockdown is not very effective. Instead, people should follow rules, wear masks, wash hands and avoid crowded places,” said the doctor. “It’s high time that we must learn to live with Covid-19. Young and healthy should be allowed to move while elderly and vulnerable people should be protected. Instead of total lockdown, clever lockdown is must,” said veteran pulmonologist Dr Ashok Arbat from Nagpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/how-effective-are-lockdowns-jury-is-still-out/articleshow/77157929.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Coonoor municipal office area sealed||Udhagamandalam: Coonoor municipal office, shops located near the office, municipal market and bus stand were sealed after a revenue assistant in the municipality tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. The revenue assistant was tested for the virus after she exhibited mild symptoms. Commissioner of Coonoor municipality K Balu said the revenue assistant is a field worker and mostly sits at the collection centre near the market. “We are not sure how she contacted the virus. She did not have any travel history. Swab samples were lifted from 10 staff members in the section for testing,” Balu said. Twenty shopkeepers having shops close to the municipal collection centre will be tested for the virus. The Coonoor municipal office will remain closed for three days for fumigation. Around 800 shops located within the market were also closed as a precautionary measure. “Once the test results of the shopkeepers are out, we will have an idea about tracing contacts. Till then the market and the close by shops will remain closed,” Balu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/coonoor-municipal-office-area-sealed/articleshow/77159605.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Three areas of Kolhapur city emerge as Covid hotspots||Kolhapur: Line Bazaar, Kadamwadi and Gandhinagar in Kolhapur city have emerged as Covid hotspots as the residents of the areas are coming in close contact with Covid-19 patients. Around 10 cases were reportedin Line Bazaar area on Friday. Most of the patients are close contact of a Covid-19 patient who attended a family function. Over 25 people have been traced and put in quarantine. Kadamwadi area reported 12 Covid-19 patients, and none of them have any travel history. Similarly, local transmission of the contagion has been reported in the Tarabai Park area. The civic officials said in the coming days, the slums are likely to be the hotspots since couple of cases are reported from Daulatnagar and Siddharth Nagar, which are slum areas. Harshit Ghadge, the nodal officer of E ward and Kolhapur Municipal Corporation’s deputy city engineer, said, “In the last few days, very few patients with travel history were reported. Now, most of the patients do not have travel history but they came in contact with people arriving from outside or other Covid patients. We have started a micro-level approach and not just relying on the index patient for tracing the contacts.” Some parts of Gandhinagar, which is the major trading centre in the district, falls outside the KMC limits. As many as 125 cases have been reported there. Most of the cases have been reported from the area that falls in city limits. A senior citizen from Gandhinagar died on Thursday. When he did not get a ventilator bed at CPR Hospital, he was asked to approach Seva Hospital. He did not get a ventilator bed in Seva hospital as well, said the relatives. He had other health conditions along with Covid. The deceased came into contact with other Covid patient from his locality. After the textile town of Ichalkaranji, Kolhapur city has reported the highest number of cases and deaths in the district. So far, around 590 cases have been reported and 15 deaths due to the infection in the city. Around 350 cases of the total cases were reported in last four to six days, said Ghadge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/three-areas-of-kolhapur-city-emerge-as-covid-hotspots/articleshow/77156357.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Gurgaon||Shankar Chowk U-turn may be ready by September, if GMDA releases dues: NHAI||GURUGRAM: The much-awaited elevated U-turn flyover at Shankar Chowk could be opened to the public by the first week of September, despite the Covid-19 lockdown disrupting construction work for over two months, says NHAI. But, if the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) fails to release the remaining amount of its committed share, the new deadline may get delayed. NHAI has been forced to push the project deadline from June to mid-August, with the government imposing lockdown and GMDA subsequently dragging its feet over the payment of its committed share in the overall project cost. But officials say it may still be ready in another month and a half if the development authority does not delay in releasing dues. “The work at the site has resumed as GMDA has released a portion of its share. Though we are facing shortage of workers at the site, we may still be able to complete it by the first week of September. A delay in the release of the remaining funds by GMDA, however, may act as a hurdle,” a senior NHAI official said. “We are currently working with 30% workforce at the site.” TOI last month reported that NHAI had spent more than its committed share to keep the project afloat but was forced to stop work at the site after repeated reminders for the release of funds failed to elicit favourable responses from GMDA. Following the report highlighting the lack of coordination between the authorities, the GMDA woke up and released a little less than 70% of the committed share — Rs 10 crore of Rs 14.74 crore. Similarly, the Ambience Mall underpass, which was supposed to be ready by July end, has also been delayed by at least three-four months. As in the case of elevated flyover, the work on the underpass had to be stopped as well over the non-payment of dues by real estate major DLF and Ambience Mall authorities. NHAI and project contractor believes that if the DLF and Ambience Mall authorities pay their dues on time, the underpass would be completed in another three months. “Before the lockdown, we were hopeful that by June we will finish the work. But, we lost a couple of months and had to shift the deadline by two months. But, then came the funds crunch. NHAI had already exhausted more than its committed share and other authorities concerned were dragging their feet. We lost another few weeks there. Now, we are hoping that if we get uninterrupted run we shall finish the underpass by October,” said an official of RK Contractor, the contractor for both the elevated U-turn and the underpass. According to the agreement, NHAI was to pay 75% of around Rs 60 crore for the Shankar Chowk elevated U-turn, while GMDA had committed to pay the remaining 25%. Similarly for the Ambience Mall U-turn, NHAI was to pay 50%, while the other 50% was divided equally between DLF and the mall authorities. DLF, on its part, claims that it is committed to pay its share and the process is being worked out for the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/shankar-chowk-u-turn-may-be-ready-by-sept-if-gmda-releases-dues-nhai/articleshow/77159606.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
July 25, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Many roads in Thiruvananthapuram closed||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With 12 wards in the capital city being declared as containment zones, police have closed many of the roads. Thampanoor, Poundkadavu, Chalai, Karamana, Thycaud, Kunnukuzhi, Kowdiar, Muttada, Pattom, Ulloor, Cheruvaikal and Kazhakootam are the new containment zones. The police have barricaded all roads leading to these wards.  Major roads that were closed include Thycaud -Thampanoor Road, Varmalayam Road, Thaivilakam-S S Kovil Road, Manjalikkulam Road, Press Road, Pallimudukku Road, Jyothipuram Road, Kannetumukku - Mettukkada Road, Santhikavadam Road, Marakkada Road, Erumakkuzhi-Attakkulangara Road, Chenthitta-Aryasalai Road, Muttada-Marappalam Road, Muttada-Vayalikkada Road, Paruthippara - Muttada Road, Parambikonam - Vayalikkada Road, Golf Links-Pipinmoodu Road, Ulloor Village Office Road and Gowreeshapattom - Bund Road. Also, College of Engineering, Trivandrum - Alathara Road, Poundkadavu - Veli Road, Elangath-Nedumcaud Road, Andiyirakkam-Thalyil Road, Kazhakkoottam Market Road, Ramachandra Residents Road, Barton Hill road, General Hospital-Law College Road and Jawahar Nagar-Pipinmoodu Road were closed using barricades. The entry and exit into the containment zones will be allowed only through a single point which will be manned by cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/many-roads-in-city-closed/articleshow/77157930.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Pune||3 land in net, cops recover five cars & 9 two-wheelers||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch in separate actions arrested three men and recovered 14 stolen vehicles, including five four-wheelers from them. A crime branch team led by inspector Shailesh Gaikwad on Wednesday chased and nabbed two criminals on police records — Akash Sandbhor (25) and Sujit Gaikwad (27), both from Nigdi — and seized a stolen scooter. During questioning the duo admitted that they had stolen four-wheelers from Pune with their accomplice, who is currently on the run. “We have recovered five stolen cars and two scooters from the duo,” sub-inspector S D Nilpatrewar of the crime branch said. In another action, a crime branch team, led by assistant inspector Ram Gomare, took two suspects into custody in Kivale and recovered seven stolen two-wheelers from them. “The suspect Akshay Shinde (20) of Nigdi had stolen these two-wheelers from Pimpri, Wakad, Dehu Road and Kothrud,” Gomare said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/3-land-in-net-cops-recover-five-cars-9-two-wheelers/articleshow/77159607.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Lured on pretext of birthday, kept sedated||KANPUR: Police said that during the interrogation, Gyanendra, the master-mind of Sanjeet kidnapping, revealed that he committed the crime to demand a Rs 30 lakh ransom from the murdered man’s parents as he and his four aides needed money to run a business. According to the police, the accused lured the victim to a birthday party on June 22 evening and then took him to the rented house, sedated him for consecutive days and later when he tried to escape strangulated him on July 27 and then dumped the body in Pandu river and fled. “The body was transported to Pandu river in a four-wheeler belonging to main accused Gyanendra,” said a police official. According to the police, Kuldeep called up Sanjeet at 19:47 pm on June 22 and asked him to accompany him in Gyanendra’s car to celebrate latter’s birthday. “Kuldeep along with Gyanendra, Ramji and Neelu Singh picked up Sanjeet from near Dhanwantari hospital in Naubasta. On the way, Kuldeep offered liquor to Sanjeet laced with sedatives. It was when he was knocked out of his senses, they took him to a rented accommodation at MIG in Barra - 6 area, where two other accused Simmi Singh and Preeti Sharma were already present. While Kuldeep used to attend his duty at a pathology, four others used to guard the victim shift-wise. They had involved a woman Preeti into crime to avoid suspicion of the landlord,” police said and added, “The accused had taken house on rent for a deposit of Rs 15,000 on June 15.” A senior police official, meanwhile, said that the victim was injected with sedatives and kept hostage for about five days. “He was sedated whenever he regained consciousness during captivity,” he said and added that they were still questioning accused on why they placed the “ransom” call after the murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/lured-on-pretext-of-bday-kept-sedated/articleshow/77159421.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Allahabad||PMC will now sanitise homes, offices in Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: If you are worried about getting you house or office sanitized in the wake of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) outbreak, then Prayagraj Municipal Corporation (PMC) can help you out. The municipal corporation will now sanitize residents’ homes and private offices by charging a nominal fee. The fee will vary with the distance the sanitation workers have to commute from PMC headquarters to a client’s home and the size of the house. Currently, the municipal corporation is sanitizing hotspots and containment zones for free. For the purpose, the corporation has purchased machines worth Rs 40 lakh. Residents can avail the facilitiy by clicking on the section ‘sanitisation request’ on the website allahabadmc.gov.in. While booking the appointment, applicants would have to fill up details like their contact details, distance between their home and the PMC office and, the size of their house. The corporation will provide the service to homes within 24 kilometres from its main office in Civil Lines. Apart from homes and offices, schools, colleges and hospitals can also apply for sanitization service. The corporation has tied up with a private bank to facilitate online payments. A team of sanitation workers will arrive at the applicant’s home within 24 hours once the payment is made. “PMC has introduced this facility in view of the rise in Covid-19 cases and for the convenience of residents. People can avail the service by applying on the corporation’s website. The municipal corporation has fixed a minimum fee for the facility,” said Prayagraj mayor Abhilasha Gupta Nandi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/pmc-will-now-sanitise-homes-offices-in-prayagraj/articleshow/77159326.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Send Form 16 via email or post, say pensioners||Coimbatore: Coimbatore Consumer Cause and some pensioners associations have appealed to the public grievances and pensions department to ensure pensioners get their Form 16 via post or mail. Form 16 is the document that lists pension income along with tax deductions. Pensioners require the document to file income tax returns. As of now, they have to go to banks in person to collect the form. R Sreedharan, regional secretary of State Bank of India Pensioners Association, said nearly 3,000 members in Coimbatore zone approach banks to collect the form. “This is because they have not opted for digital signatures yet. It is difficult for old people to travel to banks as there is no public transport,” he said. Pensioners’ Form 16 is yet to arrive in many banks. P N Rajan, joint secretary of Government Pensioners Association, said that Form 16 usually is generated by June 15. “It is stressful for old people to take all precautions and keep visiting banks and return without the form,” he said. Coimbatore Consumer Cause also wrote to the pensions department stating that due to the Covid-19 crisis, public health authorities have asked senior citizens to stay indoors. However, banks are compelling pensioners to visit the branches. “In an era of digitisation, when income tax can be filed and paid online, banks haven’t started using email or post facilities to ensure the form reaches senior citizens,” said R Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/send-form-16-via-email-or-post-say-pensioners/articleshow/77159616.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
July 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Protests by medicos halt govt’s plans to ramp up task force||Ahmedabad: The state government’s plans to ramp up the numbers of frontline medical workers to tackle the coronavirus outbreak seems to have hit a hurdle, after some medical and paramedical students refused to turn up for Covid duty. On Friday, the All Gujarat Medicos Parents Association issued a statement saying the state government was putting the lives of many bright medical and paramedical students at risk by assigning them work relating to the management and treatment of Covid-19 patients. The parents raised concerns about the limited exposure of students who are to join Covid-19 duties.Some parents are also exploring legal options to challenge the state government’s notification. The state ministry of health and family welfare last week issued a notification saying students of various medical and paramedical courses will have to undergo a training programme of one to five days before and will then be deployed for Covid-19 duty. On completion of the training, they will work under a nodal officer at dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. Students of the Government Medical College (GMC) in Surat and Gujarat Cancer Society Medical College were recently seen protesting the government decision making them join as support staff for clinical postings. The latest to join the protest are students of NHL Municipal Medical College in Ahmedabad who defied the government order and did not show up for work. “The government summoned the students to colleges for clinical postings, failing which they have been threatened with being barred from exams. College authorities have threatened action against them under the Epidemic Diseases Act,” said an official of the association. Many colleges have finalized exams for undergraduate medical students for next month and this decision will hamper their studies, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/protests-by-medicos-halt-govts-plans-to-ramp-up-task-force/articleshow/77157936.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Pune||Veteran lawyer Bhaskar Avhad passes away at 77||Pune: Noted lawyer Bhaskar Avhad passed away on Friday. He was 77. Avhad handled civil, criminal, revenue and other cases is his 51 years of illustrious career as a lawyer. He practised in Supreme Court and various high courts in India. Avhad’s brother, Sudhakar, told TOI, “He was undergoing treatment for prolonged illness in a private hospital. He passed away around 7am. His funeral was performed at Vaikunth crematorium.” Sudhakar added, “My brother also ran law classes and trained hundreds of students in becoming lawyers and judges.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/veteran-lawyer-bhaskar-avhad-passes-away-at-77/articleshow/77159612.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Ajmer||BJP legislator moves HC over merger of BSP MLAs with Cong||JAIPUR: BJP legislator Madan Dilawar on Friday filed a petition in the Rajasthan high court seeking quashing the merger of six BSP MLAs with the Congress which helped the ruling party to retain majority in the assembly. The petition by Dilawar also challenges the “inaction” of the Speaker in not deciding on his plea seeking the disqualification of the BSP MLAs from the assembly. The petition will be heard by a single judge bench of Justice Mahendra Goyal on Monday. Sandeep Yadav, Wajib Ali, Deepchand Kheria, Lakhan Meena, Jogendra Awana and Rajendra Gudha won the 2018 assembly elections on BSP tickets. All the MLAs later joined the Congress. They applied for merger as a group with the Congress on September 16 last year. The Speaker passed an order two days later declaring that the six MLAs will be treated as an integral part of the Congress Legislature Party. The merger was a boost to the Ashok Gehlot-led government as the Congress tally increased to 107 in a House of 200. The BJP MLA Dilawar had then filed a petition to Speaker C P Joshi on March 13 this year against the merger as BSP is a national party and MLAs joining another party could not be treated as merger. Dilawar has now contrasted the treatment of his own petition with the action taken by the Speaker on a plea by Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi, seeking the disqualification of 19 dissident MLAs led by Sachin Pilot. He said while the Speaker issued disqualification notices to the 19 MLAs the same day he received the complaint from the Congress, no action has been taken in his case even after four months. The BJP petition in the HC comes amid a legal battle over the Speaker's notices to the dissident MLAs, who moved the court earlier against the disqualification move.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/bjp-legislator-moves-hc-over-merger-of-bsp-mlas-with-cong/articleshow/77162244.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Gurgaon||Residents of Vipul Lavanya raise issue of defunct lifts||GURUGRAM: Hundreds of families living in Vipul Lavanya located in Sector 81 are facing tough time due to faulty lifts. The residents have alleged that there is a payment related dispute between the developer and the elevator company. The residents told TOI that the fitness certificate of the lifts expired on June 14 and despite repeated reminders to the developer and concerned agencies, the lifts are running without proper maintenance. Abhishek Kumar, a resident said that everyday someone gets stuck in the elevator. “I was stuck between 14th and 15th floor for 5 minutes and was not sure if the alarm was ringing. I had to call another resident to help raise the alarm to maintenance staff,” he added. “The project has 10 towers, each tower has two lifts but at any given time, three or four are non functional while others are quite unsafe to use,” said Shibhashish Rudra, another resident. He added that on multiple occasions, both the lifts of particular towers were not functional. “Residents had to call the estate team to get the lifts fixed as there is no action taken by the developer,” Rudra said. When contacted the lift operator, the company officials informed the residents that due to non-payment of past dues by the developer, they were not providing lift maintenance and currently all are running without the annual inspection certificate. Rudra added that the residents have raised their concern with the DTCP but have not received any response so far. Harjiv Singh Rekhi, another resident told TOI, “At the time when most of us are working from, faulty lifts pose major hindrance”. Another resident Amit Shekhar, who is also the RWA president, had a bad experience when he got stuck in the Tower-8 lift with his child. “No amount of pressing the phone icon or the buzzer was of any help and I finally had to call the estate office,” he said. The developer did not comment on the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/residents-of-vipul-lavanya-raise-issue-of-defunct-lifts/articleshow/77159613.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Jaipur||Sit-in by Ashok Gehlot a criminal act: Satish Poonia||JAIPUR: State BJP president Satish Poonia on Friday called the sit-in by chief minister Ashok Gehlot a criminal act to force governor Kalraj Mishra to allow a special session. In a presser on Friday, Poonia reminded Gehlot that the governor holds the highest constitutional post in any state and no CM can dictate his/her terms to him or his office. “It is unfortunate the kind of language the CM has used for the governor that if you didn’t give permission to hold the assembly session, the eight crore people of the state can surround the governor house,” said Poonia. Under the sections of Indian Penal Code and Rajasthan Epidemic and Disease Act 2005, Poonia termed his statement and indefinite sit-in ‘akin to a criminal offence.’ “Both his language and his flock staging sit-in invite a criminal case under Section 51 and 108 of the IPC for obstructing the government work and provoking others for the same. Also, terrorising the constitutional head to concede to your demands is a serious violation of the law,” said Poonia. He reminded Gehlot that as the head of the state home department involving in such an act makes your crime more severe. “It has never happened before that the governor house has become centre stage of the political activities,” said Poonia. Defending the governor move of declining the Congress request of the assembly session citing the severe pandemic situation, Poonia said that in February, the session was terminated on the request of the Gehlot, who reasoned Covid-19. “The situation has not improved since then and it is getting worst day by day,” said Poonia. Leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria says that Gehlot has been trapped in his self-created web. “He is desperately trying to come out of the trap but getting deeper with his every move,” said Kataria, who ruled out that parading MLAs at the governor house or at the hotel wouldn’t be seen as proving majority. “It is clear that the government has to prove their numbers in the assembly not on the road,” said Kataria. Deputy leader of the opposition Rajendra Singh Rathore says that Congress MLAs are raising slogans inside the governor house is a constitutional break down in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sit-in-by-gehlot-a-criminal-act-poonia/articleshow/77159611.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Madurai||29 out of 32 patients treated by plasma therapy cured||Madurai: At least 29 of the 32 Covid-19 patients who were administered plasma convalescent therapy in Tamil Nadu have recovered completely while three are still under treatment.Encouraged by zero fatalities so far, the state is now actively expanding its plasma therapy trials though experts warn that it is still too early to conclude if the treatment is effective. Until now, three government medical college hospitals – Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) and Omandurar Government Medical College Hospital in Chennai, and Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai – had been authorised to carry out the treatment. Among private hospitals, Vellore CMC has been authorised to carry out trials.Director of medical education Dr R Narayanababu said there were plans to expand the trials to seven more hospitals including in Trichy, Coimbatore and Salem. The plasma bank is now at RGGGH, which has treated 26 patients. So far, there have been 34 plasma donors across the state.In south TN, Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai and Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital have been authorised to carry out plasma therapy trials. According to ICMR guidelines, after screening of the suitable donor, 500ml of plasma is collected. “For treatment, we transfuse 200ml of plasma to a moderately severe Covid-19 patient in two doses depending on the response,” said GRH dean Dr J Sangumani. He added that so far five Covid-19 patients had been given plasma therapy at GRH. On Friday, as many as 14 suitable plasma donors came forward to donate. Further, the hospital authorities has reached out to 541 recovered Covid-19 patients to come forward for donation.A senior doctor at GRH said that the first part of ICMR clinical trials for plasma therapy was recently completed and the hospital had submitted its report. The hospital is now carrying on the therapy in three more patients as ‘off label’. “In this case, there are slight relaxations in ICMR restrictions for the plasma therapy though it is still a trial. We are proceeding to provide plasma therapy for severe Covid-19 patients as long as there are no contra-indicators,” he said. Experts still warn that there is no proof yet even globally that it actually works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/29-out-of-32-patients-treated-by-plasma-therapy-cured/articleshow/77159615.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
July 25, 2020||Jaipur||BJP legislator moves HC over merger of BSP MLAs with Cong||JAIPUR: BJP legislator Madan Dilawar on Friday filed a petition in the Rajasthan high court seeking quashing the merger of six BSP MLAs with the Congress which helped the ruling party to retain majority in the assembly. The petition by Dilawar also challenges the “inaction” of the Speaker in not deciding on his plea seeking the disqualification of the BSP MLAs from the assembly. The petition will be heard by a single judge bench of Justice Mahendra Goyal on Monday. Sandeep Yadav, Wajib Ali, Deepchand Kheria, Lakhan Meena, Jogendra Awana and Rajendra Gudha won the 2018 assembly elections on BSP tickets. All the MLAs later joined the Congress. They applied for merger as a group with the Congress on September 16 last year. The Speaker passed an order two days later declaring that the six MLAs will be treated as an integral part of the Congress Legislature Party. The merger was a boost to the Ashok Gehlot-led government as the Congress tally increased to 107 in a House of 200. The BJP MLA Dilawar had then filed a petition to Speaker C P Joshi on March 13 this year against the merger as BSP is a national party and MLAs joining another party could not be treated as merger. Dilawar has now contrasted the treatment of his own petition with the action taken by the Speaker on a plea by Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi, seeking the disqualification of 19 dissident MLAs led by Sachin Pilot. He said while the Speaker issued disqualification notices to the 19 MLAs the same day he received the complaint from the Congress, no action has been taken in his case even after four months. The BJP petition in the HC comes amid a legal battle over the Speaker's notices to the dissident MLAs, who moved the court earlier against the disqualification move.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-legislator-moves-hc-over-merger-of-bsp-mlas-with-cong/articleshow/77159622.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Ajmer||Sit-in by Ashok Gehlot a criminal act: Satish Poonia||JAIPUR: State BJP president Satish Poonia on Friday called the sit-in by chief minister Ashok Gehlot a criminal act to force governor Kalraj Mishra to allow a special session. In a presser on Friday, Poonia reminded Gehlot that the governor holds the highest constitutional post in any state and no CM can dictate his/her terms to him or his office. “It is unfortunate the kind of language the CM has used for the governor that if you didn’t give permission to hold the assembly session, the eight crore people of the state can surround the governor house,” said Poonia. Under the sections of Indian Penal Code and Rajasthan Epidemic and Disease Act 2005, Poonia termed his statement and indefinite sit-in ‘akin to a criminal offence.’ “Both his language and his flock staging sit-in invite a criminal case under Section 51 and 108 of the IPC for obstructing the government work and provoking others for the same. Also, terrorising the constitutional head to concede to your demands is a serious violation of the law,” said Poonia. He reminded Gehlot that as the head of the state home department involving in such an act makes your crime more severe. “It has never happened before that the governor house has become centre stage of the political activities,” said Poonia. Defending the governor move of declining the Congress request of the assembly session citing the severe pandemic situation, Poonia said that in February, the session was terminated on the request of the Gehlot, who reasoned Covid-19. “The situation has not improved since then and it is getting worst day by day,” said Poonia. Leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria says that Gehlot has been trapped in his self-created web. “He is desperately trying to come out of the trap but getting deeper with his every move,” said Kataria, who ruled out that parading MLAs at the governor house or at the hotel wouldn’t be seen as proving majority. “It is clear that the government has to prove their numbers in the assembly not on the road,” said Kataria. Deputy leader of the opposition Rajendra Singh Rathore says that Congress MLAs are raising slogans inside the governor house is a constitutional break down in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/sit-in-by-gehlot-a-criminal-act-poonia/articleshow/77162746.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara crosses 4,000 mark in cases||Vadodara: The number of Covid-19 cases detected in the city and district since the pandemic began has crossed 4,000 mark with 91 more cases being added to the tally since Thursday evening. With the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) confirming two more deaths, the toll due to Covid-19 also increased to 72. The new cases were detected from 614 samples tested since Thursday evening. The number is the highest so far. This alarming figure also pushed up the number of positive cases in the city to 4,010. The north zone of VMC registered the highest number of positive cases as 24 persons here tested positive. This was followed by west zone where 22 cases were reported and the south zone that saw 18 new cases. Seven cases were reported in the east zone of the city. In the areas of the district outside VMC limits, 20 cases were reported. These cases included persons from Karjan, Padra, Kanjat, Por, Bhayli, Undera, Bil and Dabhoi. As many as 39 patients were discharged from hospitals as well as home isolation in the city. With these the total number of discharged patients reached up to 3,188. This includes those patients who tested positive for Covid-19, but died due to co-morbidities. The condition of 39 persons who were on ventilators or BIPAP machines as well as 132 on oxygen support is said to be serious. Including them, 750 persons are under hospitalisation or home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-crosses-4000-mark-in-cases/articleshow/77157511.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Jodhpur||BJP legislator moves HC over merger of BSP MLAs with Cong||JAIPUR: BJP legislator Madan Dilawar on Friday filed a petition in the Rajasthan high court seeking quashing the merger of six BSP MLAs with the Congress which helped the ruling party to retain majority in the assembly. The petition by Dilawar also challenges the “inaction” of the Speaker in not deciding on his plea seeking the disqualification of the BSP MLAs from the assembly. The petition will be heard by a single judge bench of Justice Mahendra Goyal on Monday. Sandeep Yadav, Wajib Ali, Deepchand Kheria, Lakhan Meena, Jogendra Awana and Rajendra Gudha won the 2018 assembly elections on BSP tickets. All the MLAs later joined the Congress. They applied for merger as a group with the Congress on September 16 last year. The Speaker passed an order two days later declaring that the six MLAs will be treated as an integral part of the Congress Legislature Party. The merger was a boost to the Ashok Gehlot-led government as the Congress tally increased to 107 in a House of 200. The BJP MLA Dilawar had then filed a petition to Speaker C P Joshi on March 13 this year against the merger as BSP is a national party and MLAs joining another party could not be treated as merger. Dilawar has now contrasted the treatment of his own petition with the action taken by the Speaker on a plea by Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi, seeking the disqualification of 19 dissident MLAs led by Sachin Pilot. He said while the Speaker issued disqualification notices to the 19 MLAs the same day he received the complaint from the Congress, no action has been taken in his case even after four months. The BJP petition in the HC comes amid a legal battle over the Speaker's notices to the dissident MLAs, who moved the court earlier against the disqualification move.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/bjp-legislator-moves-hc-over-merger-of-bsp-mlas-with-cong/articleshow/77162242.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Udaipur||BJP legislator moves HC over merger of BSP MLAs with Cong||JAIPUR: BJP legislator Madan Dilawar on Friday filed a petition in the Rajasthan high court seeking quashing the merger of six BSP MLAs with the Congress which helped the ruling party to retain majority in the assembly. The petition by Dilawar also challenges the “inaction” of the Speaker in not deciding on his plea seeking the disqualification of the BSP MLAs from the assembly. The petition will be heard by a single judge bench of Justice Mahendra Goyal on Monday. Sandeep Yadav, Wajib Ali, Deepchand Kheria, Lakhan Meena, Jogendra Awana and Rajendra Gudha won the 2018 assembly elections on BSP tickets. All the MLAs later joined the Congress. They applied for merger as a group with the Congress on September 16 last year. The Speaker passed an order two days later declaring that the six MLAs will be treated as an integral part of the Congress Legislature Party. The merger was a boost to the Ashok Gehlot-led government as the Congress tally increased to 107 in a House of 200. The BJP MLA Dilawar had then filed a petition to Speaker C P Joshi on March 13 this year against the merger as BSP is a national party and MLAs joining another party could not be treated as merger. Dilawar has now contrasted the treatment of his own petition with the action taken by the Speaker on a plea by Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi, seeking the disqualification of 19 dissident MLAs led by Sachin Pilot. He said while the Speaker issued disqualification notices to the 19 MLAs the same day he received the complaint from the Congress, no action has been taken in his case even after four months. The BJP petition in the HC comes amid a legal battle over the Speaker's notices to the dissident MLAs, who moved the court earlier against the disqualification move.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/bjp-legislator-moves-hc-over-merger-of-bsp-mlas-with-cong/articleshow/77162243.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Udaipur||Sit-in by Ashok Gehlot a criminal act: Satish Poonia||JAIPUR: State BJP president Satish Poonia on Friday called the sit-in by chief minister Ashok Gehlot a criminal act to force governor Kalraj Mishra to allow a special session. In a presser on Friday, Poonia reminded Gehlot that the governor holds the highest constitutional post in any state and no CM can dictate his/her terms to him or his office. “It is unfortunate the kind of language the CM has used for the governor that if you didn’t give permission to hold the assembly session, the eight crore people of the state can surround the governor house,” said Poonia. Under the sections of Indian Penal Code and Rajasthan Epidemic and Disease Act 2005, Poonia termed his statement and indefinite sit-in ‘akin to a criminal offence.’ “Both his language and his flock staging sit-in invite a criminal case under Section 51 and 108 of the IPC for obstructing the government work and provoking others for the same. Also, terrorising the constitutional head to concede to your demands is a serious violation of the law,” said Poonia. He reminded Gehlot that as the head of the state home department involving in such an act makes your crime more severe. “It has never happened before that the governor house has become centre stage of the political activities,” said Poonia. Defending the governor move of declining the Congress request of the assembly session citing the severe pandemic situation, Poonia said that in February, the session was terminated on the request of the Gehlot, who reasoned Covid-19. “The situation has not improved since then and it is getting worst day by day,” said Poonia. Leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria says that Gehlot has been trapped in his self-created web. “He is desperately trying to come out of the trap but getting deeper with his every move,” said Kataria, who ruled out that parading MLAs at the governor house or at the hotel wouldn’t be seen as proving majority. “It is clear that the government has to prove their numbers in the assembly not on the road,” said Kataria. Deputy leader of the opposition Rajendra Singh Rathore says that Congress MLAs are raising slogans inside the governor house is a constitutional break down in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/sit-in-by-gehlot-a-criminal-act-poonia/articleshow/77162745.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Jodhpur||Sit-in by Ashok Gehlot a criminal act: Satish Poonia||JAIPUR: State BJP president Satish Poonia on Friday called the sit-in by chief minister Ashok Gehlot a criminal act to force governor Kalraj Mishra to allow a special session. In a presser on Friday, Poonia reminded Gehlot that the governor holds the highest constitutional post in any state and no CM can dictate his/her terms to him or his office. “It is unfortunate the kind of language the CM has used for the governor that if you didn’t give permission to hold the assembly session, the eight crore people of the state can surround the governor house,” said Poonia. Under the sections of Indian Penal Code and Rajasthan Epidemic and Disease Act 2005, Poonia termed his statement and indefinite sit-in ‘akin to a criminal offence.’ “Both his language and his flock staging sit-in invite a criminal case under Section 51 and 108 of the IPC for obstructing the government work and provoking others for the same. Also, terrorising the constitutional head to concede to your demands is a serious violation of the law,” said Poonia. He reminded Gehlot that as the head of the state home department involving in such an act makes your crime more severe. “It has never happened before that the governor house has become centre stage of the political activities,” said Poonia. Defending the governor move of declining the Congress request of the assembly session citing the severe pandemic situation, Poonia said that in February, the session was terminated on the request of the Gehlot, who reasoned Covid-19. “The situation has not improved since then and it is getting worst day by day,” said Poonia. Leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria says that Gehlot has been trapped in his self-created web. “He is desperately trying to come out of the trap but getting deeper with his every move,” said Kataria, who ruled out that parading MLAs at the governor house or at the hotel wouldn’t be seen as proving majority. “It is clear that the government has to prove their numbers in the assembly not on the road,” said Kataria. Deputy leader of the opposition Rajendra Singh Rathore says that Congress MLAs are raising slogans inside the governor house is a constitutional break down in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/sit-in-by-gehlot-a-criminal-act-poonia/articleshow/77162744.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Crime Branch files charge sheet against Vellappally Natesan||KOLLAM: Sixteen years after Kollam S N College golden jubilee fund mismanagement case was registered, Crime Branch on Friday filed a chargesheet against SNDP Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan. IPC sections 420 (cheating and dishonest misappropriation of property), 403 (dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 406 (breach of trust) and 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant) have been invoked against the S N Trust chief. High court had ordered Crime Branch (CB) on July 8 to complete the probe, which had been delayed for 16 years, and file the chargesheet in two weeks’ time. As per the chargesheet, Natesan had misappropriated Rs 55 lakh from the Rs 1.10 crore collected as golden jubilee fund of the college in 1997-98. The CB had found that Natesan, as convener of the jubilee celebrations, had transferred the amount to his personal account. It is on SNDP activist Surendrababu’s complaint that the CB filed the chargesheet. Natesan had taken the stand that he had repaid the amount to SN Trust's account.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/crime-branch-files-charge-sheet-against-vellappally-natesan/articleshow/77156420.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Lucknow||Rope in NCC & civil defence in dists with high caseloads: Uttar Pradesh CM||LUCKNOW: As nine districts reported more than 100 Covid-19 cases on Friday – up from five districts a day earlier – Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath issued directions for special attention on cities from where high number of patients are being reported. These districts include Lucknow, which is leading the state tally for last few days, Kanpur, Gorakhpur, Jhansi, Prayagraj, Varanasi, Ballia and Ghaziabad, among others. The CM has directed the local administration of these districts to convert even private hospitals to Covid-19 hospitals if such a need arises. He said surveillance should be strengthened in these districts and local administration and health officials should ensure availability of adequate medicines, ventilators and hospital beds. “The CM has said door-to-door screening in these areas should be carried out on a war footing. Surveillance teams can only conduct medical testing and health department should ensure availability of testing kits in these districts,” said additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi. The CM also stressed on the need for a comprehensive plan to address problems that may crop up in future due to current environment, saying that the government should be prepared to handle any eventuality. He said NCC cadets and civil defence volunteers could be deployed to maintain order in 600 containment zones across the state. Yogi said extensive sanitization, sanitation and fogging exercise should be carried out across the state over the weekend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rope-in-ncc-civil-defence-in-dists-with-high-caseloads-cm/articleshow/77160393.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad MP Imtiaz Jaleel donates five ventilators to GMCH||Aurangabad:Aurangabad MP Imtiaz Jaleel on Friday donated five ventilators to the government medical college and hospital (GMCH), which has become a major centre to treat Covid-19 patients, who are in critical condition. The five ventilators, that cost around Rs 60 lakh, were handed over to a group of doctors led by GMCH dean Dr Kananbala Yelikar and deputy dean Dr Kailash Zine, for the pediatrics department.Jaleel said, “Despite GMCH being the largest state-run hospital in the eight districts of Marathwada region, it had just three ventilators at the pediatrics department, so I decided to utilize by MP Local Area Development funds for the betterment of the health infrastructure.”tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-mp-imtiaz-jaleel-donates-five-ventilators-to-gmch/articleshow/77290430.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Lucknow||Balrampur cops reach Dras to search for missing IES officer||LUCKNOW: A month after Subhan Ali, an officer of the Indian Engineering Services (IES) and deployed with Border Roads Organization (BRO) in Leh and Kargil sector, went missing on June 22, a Balrampur police team reached Dras to carry out a search operation. Two members of Ali’s family also accompanied the team. The 28-year-old IES officer went missing along with Army personnel, lance nayak Palvinder Singh since June 22. Balrampur SP Dev Ranjan Verma told TOI that a special investigation team of three members was formed to search for the missing IES officer. “The team along with the IES officer’s elder brother, Shaban Ali and a relative has gone to Leh to search for the missing officer,” Verma said. Talking to TOI, Shaban Ali said, “Nobody has taken our case seriously, we have such a large Army and other expert agencies which could have been deployed in search operations,” he said. “We had worked so hard to raise Subhan and made him an officer, only to meet such a fate,” he said. An alumnus of IIT-Delhi, Ali was a topper and bagged the 24th rank in the all-India IES entrance exam. Army and officials of Ladakh administration had managed to track down the mangled remains of their vehicle, but there was no trace of the IES officer or the Armyman accompanying him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/balrampur-cops-reach-dras-to-search-for-missing-ies-officer/articleshow/77160400.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Erode||Senior lawyer from Erode turns tea-seller to make both ends meet||From the argumentative life of a lawyer in the Madras high court and the Supreme Court to riding a ramshackle bicycle selling tea to make ends meet, 69-year-old S A Syed Haroon has seen it all.The senior advocate took to selling tea one fine morning in May, two months into the lockdown, when he received a message from his bank reminding him that the minimum balance in his account had dipped below the permissible level.“When I got the message from the bank, I decided to do something of my own to run my family,” he said.Syed Haroon, a senior advocate in the Supreme Court between 1996-1999 and the Madras high court since 2000, was born in Coonoor in Nilgiris in 1951. He later moved to Erode in 1967 when his father, a railway employee, got transferred.After completing his schooling in Erode, he signed up to study law in Government Law College in Chennai in 1974. “After completing law in 1979, I joined the Congress party and appeared for many leaders in the Supreme Court between 1996 and 1999,” he told TOI. Since 2000, he has been practicing as a senior advocate in the Madras high court.The lawyer said he used to earn about Rs 60,000 a month through his practice. “I have two daughters and a son, and have spent all my earnings on them,” he said.With the lockdown came a new set of misery. On March 24, Syed Haroon came back to Erode to live with his family. Though he’s nearing 70, he wanted to be on his own financially. “I am a senior advocate, but I don’t have any savings, and I felt disconsolate when I received the SMS from the bank,” he said.To make ends meet, Syed sold vegetables in his locality, but got a lukewarm response. It was then that the idea to sell tea crossed his mind. “Instead of setting up a tea stall, I wanted to sell it on my bike,” he said.His new business plan paid him Rs 500 a day, but fuel expenses proved a drag. “I flipped away my bike, and looked forward to selling tea on my old bicycle...it’s both cost effective and good for my health,” Syed Haroon said.A day in the life of the former lawyer begins early, at 6.30 am, and he returns by evening, with the long, dreary day punctuated by two short breaks for food. His friends and fellow advocates advised him not to sell tea. “But I don’t have any option as law practice has stopped,” he said, adding that, he will return to his profession when the courts resume business.The sexagenarian lawyer has requested that the state government grant Rs 10,000 a month to poor advocates till the pandemic lasts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/senior-lawyer-from-erode-turns-tea-seller-to-make-both-ends-meet/articleshow/77159682.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Allahabad||Prayagraj: Two men found dead in front of liquor shops where they worked||PRAYAGRAJ: Two men were allegedly found murdered outside the liquor shops where they worked in on Kokhraj-Bharwari Road, under the limits of Kokhraj police station, on Friday morning. The deceased were identified as Rajendra Kumar (55) and Shiv Pratap (44) and they were residents of Nihalpur and Habbu Nagar respectively. The two worked in separate shops, which were located half-a-kilometre away from the Kokhraj police station. IG (Prayagraj range) KP Singh said that the two shops were located adjacent to each other. While slain Rajendra Kumar used to work in a shop selling Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) for the past two-and-a-half years, Shiv Pratap has been working in a store selling countrymade liquor since the past one year. On Thursday night, the two had their dinner after closing the shops and went to sleep on separate cots in the verandah in front of their shops. Their bodies were found on their cots in the morning. According to police, Rajendra was allegedly suffocated, while Shiv Prasad was killed with a sharp weapon. Police said that the cash and liquor bottles kept inside the shops were not missing, indicating that the accused only wanted to murder the two. Police have been scanning call detail records of the two and have sent the bodies for postmortem examination. Man killed: A 38-year-old man was killed at his in-laws’ home in Umri Katra village, under Ghurpur police station, late Thursday night. According to police, the deceased was identified as Abdul Razak and was a resident of Sikandra in Baharia. He was visiting his in-laws’ and was allegedly attacked with a weapon, while he was trying to pacify two rival groups. The two groups were fighting after someone reportedly threw a brick at one of their members. Police said Razak worked in a company in Middle east and had returned to his native village in Baharia during the lockdown around a month back. Police said the youth had arrived at his in-laws’ house on Thursday morning. Police said that Razak first fell on the ground and his head hit with a stone. Before he could stand up, he was also attacked by the two groups. Two persons have also been detained for interrogation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/2-men-found-dead-in-front-of-liquor-shops-where-they-worked/articleshow/77159271.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Pune||Pune: Shivajinagar gets 31mm rain in first good spell this July||PUNE: Moderate showers lashed the city on Friday, giving the first good rain spell in all of July so far. Shivajinagar received 31mm rain from 8.30am to 5.30pm on Friday. Most of it was recorded in the afternoon. Lohegaon recorded just 3mm rain during this period. Showers continued for a good 45 minutes in Shivajinagar on Friday afternoon, causing waterlogging on some roads. The higher number of vehicles on streets after the end of the 10-day lockdown because of the Covid-19 situation in the city and the waterlogged roads triggered traffic snarls at a few places in the evening. The Friday’s spell in Shivajinagar was the highest quantum so far for the location this July, as the rainfall activity during the most part of the month was subdued. On most of the days this month, the city received single-digit, traces or nil rainfall. The good spell of rain in Shivajinagar on Friday brought down the day temperature in the area significantly from Thursday’s 32.8°C to 29.3°C on Friday. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune, told TOI, “The relative humidity (RH) in all the areas of Pune increased significantly on Friday. In Shivajinagar, the RH had increased by 28% at 5.30pm on Friday in comparison to that recorded in the same time on Thursday. In Pashan too, the RH increased by 29% at 5.30pm on Friday in comparison to that recorded at the same time there on Thursday. In Lohegaon too, the RH was 12 % higher than Thursday’s at 5.30pm on Friday.” Kashyapi said this was a significant rise in relative humidity. “In fact, the relative humidity has been increasing, and it also contributed to the rainfall activity on Friday. Besides, several systems, including an upper air cyclonic circulation moving northward, contributed to the rain. This cyclonic circulation has been persisting from east-central Arabian Sea, off north Kerala-Karnataka. The monsoon trough is also slowly shifting southward, while another cyclonic circulation located over Jharkhand is pumping in moisture over central India, including parts of eastern Maharashtra. These systems, along with an approaching western disturbance and another cyclonic circulation over south west Uttar Pradesh, have activated monsoon over Maharashtra as well as parts of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh,” he said. He said during the next 72 hours, the state was likely to get good rainfall. “This rainfall is very useful for kharif crops. The slow-paced rainfall will also help in groundwater recharge, while good rain spells in catchment areas will help filling up Pune dams,” said Kashyapi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shivajinagar-gets-31mm-rain-in-first-good-spell-this-july/articleshow/77159635.cms||Neha Madaan
July 25, 2020||Pune||New PMPML CMD takes charge||Pune: Rajendra Jagtap, who took charge as the new chairman and managing director of the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML), said that his main priority was to gradually start operation of PMPML buses. “The focus will be to try and slowly start public transport. Even now, more than 170 PMPML buses are ferrying those in essential services,” he said. Jagtap, an officer of the Indian Defence Estate Service, has served as an additional commissioner of the Pune Municipal Corporation and chief executive officer of the Pune Smart City Development Corporation Limited .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/new-pmpml-cmd-takes-charge/articleshow/77159676.cms||Joy Sengupta
July 25, 2020||Nagpur||Rs 50K fine/day if Alexis Hospital equipment is not unsealed: HC to NMC||Nagpur: Coming down heavily on the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) for sealing Alexis Hospital’s genetic clinic and also threatening to cancel its registration, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court passed strictures on its deputy chief medical officer Dr Pravin Gantawar and Advisory Committee constituted to probe the complaint. While quashing the notice and seizure memo issued to the hospital, a division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Anil Kilor on Friday warned respondents, including NMC, Dr Gantawar and health officer Dr Yogendra Sawai, of imposing Rs50,000 cost/day if they failed to unseal the hospital’s equipment seized after a complaint. “Cancellation of a genetic clinic’s registration and seizure/sealing utilitarian machines from a running hospital is a drastic step, taking away the fundamental right to practise a profession, which can’t be done merely because it’s prudent to do so. Entire decision-making process adopted in the present case lacks all bona fides and genuineness. It's nothing but an abuse of the authority,” the bench said, while allowing Alexis’ plea through counsel Shreerang Bhandarkar. The judges tersely observed that they failed to understand Gantawar’s active participation and stoic silence by the appropriate authority, except performing the empty formalities of signing the papers placed by him before it. “An FIR was lodged by hospital staffer Satish Tharwani on July 7 accusing the complainant and a group, led by Sahil Syed and Gantawar. It provides a clue regarding the existence of their relationship and motive behind activities and actions. What we find is that Gantawar’s entire conduct reflects high probability of bias and a hidden motive inconsistent with the fair performance of his duties, creating an impression that something has gone wrong of nature and degree, which requires HC’s intervention.” Blasting the advisory committee members, the judges said it wasn’t supposed to perform a job, like putting a rubber stamp on an action proposed by authority. It comprises a legal expert, three medical experts from gynecologists and obstetricians, paediatricians and genetics. “We have gone through the committee’s proceedings of July 7. It was attended by two gynecologists and obstetricians, an NMC law officer, an NGO activist, a geneticist, a lawyer, a radiologist and PRO. The proceedings nowhere reflect any application of mind. The members failed to understand the consequences of providing aid and advice to the authority to cancel the hospital's registration with immediate effect.” The bench added that at least panel doctors can better understand proportionality of action with reference to ultimate consequences. “The Advisory Committee is not supposed to create an impression that its constitution is merely an empty formality, otherwise complete faith in them shall be eroded. We’re sorry to note that the proceedings nowhere reflect the seriousness of matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rs-50k-fine/day-if-alexis-hospital-equipment-is-not-unsealed-hc-to-nmc/articleshow/77157964.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 25, 2020||Meerut||Meerut DM conducts surprise inspection at LLRM Medical College, calls up patients to check whether they are getting proper facilities||Meerut: Meerut district magistrate (DM) Anil Dhingra conducted a surprise inspection at the Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial (LLRM) Medical College on Friday and called up patients to check whether they were being given proper facilities and if there were any problems that they might be facing here. Principal of LLRM Dr SK Garg and others were present as the DM called up patients admitted at the LLRM Medical College to check the situation there. “I called up the patients admitted in the ICU of the Covid-19 ward to know about their health. I also inquired about the cleanliness facilities and the food being provided there and I received satisfactory replies,” said Dhingra. This comes at least a month after the district magistrate had set up a committee to regularly keep tabs on the admitted patients so that there was no lapse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-dm-conducts-surprise-inspection-at-llrm-medical-college-calls-up-patients-to-check-whether-they-are-getting-proper-facilities/articleshow/77156403.cms||Ishita Bhatia
July 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Residents in sealed areas seek supply of essential goods||Coimbatore: Residents of SV Colony in Tirupur city, which was declared as Covid-19 containment zone, said they did not receive essential goods in the last 10 days.Neither the district administration nor the city municipal corporation helped them, they told reporters through the barricades. “We have run out of groceries. The officials, who blocked the residential area, should allow us to purchase essential goods and medicines,” said a resident.Tirupur city health officer N Boopathy said that 21 people in the colony had tested positive for Covid-19. “This containment zone reported more cases than any other containment zone in Tirupur corporation. It has become a hotspot. It will take six more days to lift the restriction,” he said. “Corporation officials supplied vegetables to the residents on Friday.”Tirupur north constituency MLA K N Vijeyakumar will distribute rice to the residents on Saturday. As many as 2,700 SV Colony residents were screened and swab samples were taken from 94 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/residents-in-sealed-areas-seek-supply-of-essential-goods/articleshow/77159629.cms||A Subburaj
July 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Manmohan: PV Narasimha Rao father of economic reforms in India||HYDERABAD: Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Friday said that ex-PM late PV Narasimha Rao can be truly called as the “father of economic reforms in India.” In his recorded speech played at the launch of birth centenary celebrations of Rao by the Telangana Congress, Manmohan Singh termed Rao “a great son of the soil.” The union budget presented on July 24, 1991 by Manmohan Singh as the finance minister in Rao’s cabinet, changed India in many ways, ushering in economic reforms and liberalisation. “It was a hard choice and a bold decision but Prime Minister Narasimha Rao made it possible and gave me the free hand to roll out things. He had full understanding of what was ailing India’s economy at that time and what was needed to give it a fillip,” Manmohan Singh said. Real tough decisions had to be taken in 1991. The foreign exchange reserves were sufficient for only two weeks imports. “It was a precariously placed minority government which was dependent on outside support for stability. But Narasimha Rao had the ability to carry along with everyone by convincing them. He gave me a free hand and I went about my job carrying forward his vision. Now looking back, Narasimha Rao can truly be called the father of economic reforms in India,” Manmohan Singh said. His work on improving relations with Sri Lanka and China, ‘look east policy,’ were remarkable, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/manmohan-pv-father-of-economic-reforms-in-india/articleshow/77159609.cms||Roushan Ali
July 25, 2020||Varanasi||Uttar Pradesh: Now, Sonu Sood arranges flight from Kyrgyzstan||VARANASI: After grabbing headlines for arranging buses to send home migrant labourers stranded in Maharashtra and other parts of the country, actor Sonu Sood arranged a chartered flight to bring home 135 Indian students stranded in Kyrgyzstan. The flight from Bishkek in Kyrgyzstan landed at the Lal Bahadur Shastri International Airport in Varanasi on Thursday around 9.40pm. According to the airport authorities, the passengers were shifted into terminal building keeping required distance between them. All the passengers were screened by the state medical team using thermal body scanner and they were instructed regarding quarantine. All government norms were followed during arrival of flight and passengers. In his tweet, Sood expressed his happiness saying, “Feeling so happy that the first flight from Kyrgyzstan to Varanasi took off today. All thanks to flyspicejet for making my mission successful. The second flight from Kyrgyzstan to Vizag will fly on 24th July. Would request students to send your details as soon as possible. Jai Hind”. Earlier, the flight was scheduled on Wednesday, but it rescheduled to Thursday due to weather conditions. After landing at Varanasi airport, the students from various places, including Jaunpur, Siddharthnagar, Ghaziabad, Gorakhpur and other places expressed happiness and thanked the actor for this benevolent act. In the past too, Sood had helped migrant workers in Mumbai by arranging transportation for returning home during the nationwide lockdown. He had also arranged meals for the needy people. Earlier on Thursday, ANI said low-cost carrier SpiceJet would operate nine charter flights in Kyrgyzstan. The first flight brought back 135 students from Bishkek to Varanasi. The airline will operate more charter flights from Bishkek to various Indian cities in the coming days. “SpiceJet...will operate nine charter flights to evacuate over 1,500 Indian students stranded in Kyrgyzstan for over two months. This special repatriation mission...has been undertaken by SpiceJet in association with film actor Sonu Sood,” ANI said quoting a SpiceJet press release. Watch Sonu Sood arranges charter flights for over 1,500 Indian students stranded in Kyrgyzstan, group of airborne students send actor message of gratitude||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/sonu-sood-arranges-flight-for-students/articleshow/77158860.cms||Binay Singh
July 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh civic body panel mulls green tax on trucks||CHANDIGARH: A special committee constituted by the mayor to generate revenue held a meeting on Friday, during which they discussed ways of improving the city’s financial situation. Issues discussed included an agenda be put up in the general house meeting regarding levying of green tax on commercial vehicles from other states. Allowance of petrol limits instead of provision of separate vehicles to officers, excluding senior MC officers was also discussed. The committee took up rates and policy on cables and optical fiber to be put up in the general house and charges to be fixed for the cables and wires crossing through trees, road berms and MC land. Maintenance policy of public services including open air gyms and children’s play equipment will be reviewed. An inventory of all open air gym equipment, children play equipment, benches, swings and huts to be maintained will be put up in the next meeting. It was also discussed that parks given to Resident Welfare Associations for maintenance be checked properly and reviewed regularly. The officials suggested that MC properties such as open air theatre in Sector 48 and Mahila Bhawan in Sector 38 should be given on rent and booking of such properties should be opened at the earliest. The committee will visit Sector 48 open air theatre and Mahila Bhawan in Sector 38 to take stock of infrastructure and facilities. Details of total manpower deployed in the sanitation wing, including machinery deployed (owned or hired on rent basis) will be prepared. Members also said that a proposal for advertisements in MC vehicles should be prepared to generate revenue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-panel-mulls-green-tax-on-trucks/articleshow/77157958.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Gurgaon||E-registration has helped check corruption: Manohar Lal Khattar||ROHTAK: Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Friday that introduction of e-registration in tehsil offices five years ago had helped in “eradication of corruption” and the results were now visible. The CM added the state government was moving towards simplifying processes and people could now apply for any kind of registration at any tehsil office in the state. Khattar, who was speaking to media in Rohtak, said e-registration was started by his government on the occasion of ‘Good Governance Day’ five years ago. Now, the year 2020 was being celebrated by the government as ‘Good Governance Resolution Year’, he said. Responding to a media query on law and order, the CM said the opposition should look into law and order in the state during its rule before making allegations.  “At present, law and order in the state is better than before. Police infrastructure is being strengthened. Women’s police stations have been opened and an adequate number of police forces have been recruited,” he said. Khattar added Haryana was doing better than other states when it came to dealing with Covid-19. “Our recovery rate is about 76%. The death rate is also very low as compared to other states,” he added. He said the government had set up four plasma blood banks in the state, in Rohtak, Panchkula, Gurgaon and Faridabad, to improve recovery rate. He said 20,000 beds have been reserved and appealed to people recovering from Covid infection to donate plasma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/khattar-e-registration-has-helped-check-corruption/articleshow/77165655.cms||Sat Singh
July 25, 2020||Faridabad||E-registration has helped check corruption: Manohar Lal Khattar||ROHTAK: Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Friday that introduction of e-registration in tehsil offices five years ago had helped in “eradication of corruption” and the results were now visible. The CM added the state government was moving towards simplifying processes and people could now apply for any kind of registration at any tehsil office in the state. Khattar, who was speaking to media in Rohtak, said e-registration was started by his government on the occasion of ‘Good Governance Day’ five years ago. Now, the year 2020 was being celebrated by the government as ‘Good Governance Resolution Year’, he said. Responding to a media query on law and order, the CM said the opposition should look into law and order in the state during its rule before making allegations.  “At present, law and order in the state is better than before. Police infrastructure is being strengthened. Women’s police stations have been opened and an adequate number of police forces have been recruited,” he said. Khattar added Haryana was doing better than other states when it came to dealing with Covid-19. “Our recovery rate is about 76%. The death rate is also very low as compared to other states,” he added. He said the government had set up four plasma blood banks in the state, in Rohtak, Panchkula, Gurgaon and Faridabad, to improve recovery rate. He said 20,000 beds have been reserved and appealed to people recovering from Covid infection to donate plasma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/khattar-e-registration-has-helped-check-corruption/articleshow/77165748.cms||Sat Singh
July 25, 2020||Chandigarh||E-registration has helped check corruption: Manohar Lal Khattar||ROHTAK: Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Friday that introduction of e-registration in tehsil offices five years ago had helped in “eradication of corruption” and the results were now visible. The CM added the state government was moving towards simplifying processes and people could now apply for any kind of registration at any tehsil office in the state. Khattar, who was speaking to media in Rohtak, said e-registration was started by his government on the occasion of ‘Good Governance Day’ five years ago. Now, the year 2020 was being celebrated by the government as ‘Good Governance Resolution Year’, he said. Responding to a media query on law and order, the CM said the opposition should look into law and order in the state during its rule before making allegations.  “At present, law and order in the state is better than before. Police infrastructure is being strengthened. Women’s police stations have been opened and an adequate number of police forces have been recruited,” he said. Khattar added Haryana was doing better than other states when it came to dealing with Covid-19. “Our recovery rate is about 76%. The death rate is also very low as compared to other states,” he added. He said the government had set up four plasma blood banks in the state, in Rohtak, Panchkula, Gurgaon and Faridabad, to improve recovery rate. He said 20,000 beds have been reserved and appealed to people recovering from Covid infection to donate plasma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/khattar-e-registration-has-helped-check-corruption/articleshow/77157963.cms||Sat Singh
July 25, 2020||Hubballi||Pandemic may push hundreds into child labour||BELAGAVI: In the backward districts of Karnakata, an increasing number of children are seen working in different sectors, including agriculture, and Covid-19 crisis may worsen the situation by pushing hundreds of students of government schools into the evil practice. Children are seen either selling tea, juice and fruits, or working at grocery shops, garages, mini supermarkets, factories and agriculture fields in Bidar, Koppal, Raichur, Yadgir, Kalaburagi, Vijayapura, Chamarajanagar and other districts. This is attributed to the closure of schools and the lockdown-induced hardship faced by their parents. Activists, officers and teachers of government schools fear the delay in schools’ reopening may undo the efforts done over the last two decades in bringing rural children to schools. Manohar, a government school teacher from Bidar, said children aged 10 and above are being sent by their parents for work, apparently to compensate losses due to lockdown. Children, as young as six years, are seen working in agriculture fields which are either owned by their owners or others. According to Monohar, parents may later turn reluctant to send their kids to schools for that extra buck earned by their wards. An officer working in Child Protection Unit (CPU, Vijayapura) said child labour has increased post-lockdown. “We have observed children working at grocery shops, tea stalls, garages and other small business outlets. There have also been instances of them running away when we go there for enquiry. Shop owners say that the children, being their relatives, are simply helping them. But the trend is disturbing,” he rued. Manjunath Reddy, officer of National Child Labour Project (NCLP, Raichur), said that they have their task cut out during chilli- and cotton-harvesting season. In 2019-20, NCLP rescued 165 kids here. This year, the number could be high as children are out of school. “More raids are needed to rescue as many kids as possible,” he said. A staff at Yadgir-based NGO Tata Trust said they are in touch with 85 SDMCs (School Development Management Committees) to monitor the activities of children. Children are accompanying their parents at work, the staffer added. Education activist Syed Hafizulah said the government has to come up with a framework to curb the trend in backward districts. “This is not just a matter of children, but of a generation,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/pandemic-may-push-hundreds-into-child-labour/articleshow/77156453.cms||Shreyas HS
July 25, 2020||Lucknow||Opposition blasts UP govt over Kanpur kidnap-&-murder||LUCKNOW: After the Kanpur police on Friday confirmed that abducted lab technician Sanjeet Yadav has been murdered by his captors, opposition parties put the ruling BJP in a spot over law and order situation in the state. Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav demanded President’s rule in the state and said the government should give Rs 50 lakh as compensation to Yadav’s family. Announcing that his party would provide a financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh to Sanjit’s family, Akhilesh said: “News of the murder of Sanjeet, the only son of his parents, is unfortunate. Despite warnings, the government did not act.” Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi said law and order has collapsed in the state. “People are feeling unsafe everywhere, be it the roads, offices or their homes. As per reports, police made the family pay ransom to the abductors after which Yadav was killed. This is the new ‘gundaraj’ where law and order has surrendered before criminals.” BSP chief Mayawati demanded that the government should take immediate action to end the “jungle raj in UP”. After meeting Sanjeet’s family in Kanpur, Aam Aadmi Party MP Sanjay Singh said, “Yadav’s murder is a result of gross negligence on part of the police. As many as 26 calls were made by abductors from one phone number but the police could not apprehend them. Simultaneously, cops also made sure that the criminals get the ransom amount of Rs 30 lakh. Officials responsible for the lapses should be jailed.” Congress state president Ajay Kumar Lallu and other party members were detained on their way to Yadav’s residence. They were released in the evening. “Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath is not able to manage the state. He should immediately resign. Law and order has collapsed in the state due to the nexus between police and criminals,” Lallu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/oppn-blasts-state-govt-over-kanpur-kidnap-murder/articleshow/77160406.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Jodhpur||CM protests at Raj Bhavan; what about law and order: Rajasthan governor||JAIPURL Rajasthan witnessed high political drama on Friday when CM Ashok Gehlot reached governor Kalraj Mishra’s official residence with more than 100 legislators, including independents. He met Mishra and insisted on convening the assembly session, which seems intended to prove his strength and force the hand of the rebels who are seeking protection from disqualification. The CM and MLAs stayed put for more than five hours from around 2.30 pm to 7.35 pm, and raised slogans for an assembly session as recommended by the state cabinet. Gehlot termed the protest a “Gandhian satyagraha”. Earlier, Gehlot said, “If the state’s people now gherao Raj Bhavan (for not convening the session), we will not be responsible.” The governor responded by expressing anguish over Gehlot’s remarks. “My only request to you is that if you and your home department cannot protect even the governor then what is your opinion about the law and order situation in the state? With that, also tell me which agency should be contacted for the governor’s security? In my long political career, I never heard such a statement from any chief minister,” he wrote. Sources in the Pilot camp said the “threat” was uncalled for and central minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said it was an act of “goondagardi”. The decision to convene the assembly is seen to be the prerogative of the government and usually the governor has few objections, if any. But the political subtext to the events has made it a political potboiler.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/cm-protests-at-raj-bhavan-what-about-law-order-guv/articleshow/77161975.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 25, 2020||Pune||Wastepicker held for friend’s murder in Pune||PUNE: The Bhosari MIDC police on Thursday arrested a man for allegedly bludgeoning his friend to death, about 14 days after the victim’s body was found at a garbage dumping ground in Moshi on July 9. The post-mortem revealed that the man, Vinod Shinde (32), had died of head injuries. “Initially we could not ascertain the identity of the man. We shared his photographs on different social media platforms but there was no breakthrough,” senior inspector Rajendra Kunte of the Bhosari police told TOI. Kunte said constables V D Daundkar and N P Pote subsequently traced his address to Gavlimatha in Bhosari. “Shinde was a wastepicker. His brother told us that Shinde had been missing since July 9 and was last seen with a friend on the same day,” he said. Shinde’s brother also told the police that the former had entered a brawl with the friend a few days prior. “We took his 35-year-old friend, Manohar Kamble, into custody for questioning. He admitted to having bludgeoned Shinde to death as they encountered a fallout over picking waste,” Kunte said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wastepicker-held-for-friends-murder/articleshow/77159691.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Udaipur||CM protests at Raj Bhavan; what about law and order: Rajasthan governor||JAIPURL Rajasthan witnessed high political drama on Friday when CM Ashok Gehlot reached governor Kalraj Mishra’s official residence with more than 100 legislators, including independents. He met Mishra and insisted on convening the assembly session, which seems intended to prove his strength and force the hand of the rebels who are seeking protection from disqualification. The CM and MLAs stayed put for more than five hours from around 2.30 pm to 7.35 pm, and raised slogans for an assembly session as recommended by the state cabinet. Gehlot termed the protest a “Gandhian satyagraha”. Earlier, Gehlot said, “If the state’s people now gherao Raj Bhavan (for not convening the session), we will not be responsible.” The governor responded by expressing anguish over Gehlot’s remarks. “My only request to you is that if you and your home department cannot protect even the governor then what is your opinion about the law and order situation in the state? With that, also tell me which agency should be contacted for the governor’s security? In my long political career, I never heard such a statement from any chief minister,” he wrote. Sources in the Pilot camp said the “threat” was uncalled for and central minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said it was an act of “goondagardi”. The decision to convene the assembly is seen to be the prerogative of the government and usually the governor has few objections, if any. But the political subtext to the events has made it a political potboiler.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/cm-protests-at-raj-bhavan-what-about-law-order-guv/articleshow/77161976.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 25, 2020||Jaipur||CM protests at Raj Bhavan; what about law and order: Rajasthan governor||JAIPURL Rajasthan witnessed high political drama on Friday when CM Ashok Gehlot reached governor Kalraj Mishra’s official residence with more than 100 legislators, including independents. He met Mishra and insisted on convening the assembly session, which seems intended to prove his strength and force the hand of the rebels who are seeking protection from disqualification. The CM and MLAs stayed put for more than five hours from around 2.30 pm to 7.35 pm, and raised slogans for an assembly session as recommended by the state cabinet. Gehlot termed the protest a “Gandhian satyagraha”. Earlier, Gehlot said, “If the state’s people now gherao Raj Bhavan (for not convening the session), we will not be responsible.” The governor responded by expressing anguish over Gehlot’s remarks. “My only request to you is that if you and your home department cannot protect even the governor then what is your opinion about the law and order situation in the state? With that, also tell me which agency should be contacted for the governor’s security? In my long political career, I never heard such a statement from any chief minister,” he wrote. Sources in the Pilot camp said the “threat” was uncalled for and central minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said it was an act of “goondagardi”. The decision to convene the assembly is seen to be the prerogative of the government and usually the governor has few objections, if any. But the political subtext to the events has made it a political potboiler.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-protests-at-raj-bhavan-what-about-law-order-guv/articleshow/77159685.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 25, 2020||Coimbatore||TNSTC workers seek full salary||Coimbatore: Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation employees, who staged demonstrations in front of bus depots in the district on Friday demanding full salary, gave missed call to the mobile number of their superiors. A few days ago, TNSTC had obtained an undertaking from the employees stating that the number of days they had not reported to duty because of the government decision to suspend bus services will be considered as leave and deducted from their leave account, said M Velankanni Raj, general secretary of the Coimbatore Government Transport Workers Union. “When we are ready to work though the state government decided to stop the service, why should we take the pay cut?”  The corporation has not followed any of the guidelines on maintenance of attendance of employees, Raj said. “The officials should not consider it as our personal leave. The technical staff had worked for almost a week even after the service was terminated. The government should provide special incentive to the staff, who worked during the lockdown.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tnstc-workers-seek-full-salary/articleshow/77159695.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Ajmer||CM protests at Raj Bhavan; what about law and order: Rajasthan governor||JAIPURL Rajasthan witnessed high political drama on Friday when CM Ashok Gehlot reached governor Kalraj Mishra’s official residence with more than 100 legislators, including independents. He met Mishra and insisted on convening the assembly session, which seems intended to prove his strength and force the hand of the rebels who are seeking protection from disqualification. The CM and MLAs stayed put for more than five hours from around 2.30 pm to 7.35 pm, and raised slogans for an assembly session as recommended by the state cabinet. Gehlot termed the protest a “Gandhian satyagraha”. Earlier, Gehlot said, “If the state’s people now gherao Raj Bhavan (for not convening the session), we will not be responsible.” The governor responded by expressing anguish over Gehlot’s remarks. “My only request to you is that if you and your home department cannot protect even the governor then what is your opinion about the law and order situation in the state? With that, also tell me which agency should be contacted for the governor’s security? In my long political career, I never heard such a statement from any chief minister,” he wrote. Sources in the Pilot camp said the “threat” was uncalled for and central minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said it was an act of “goondagardi”. The decision to convene the assembly is seen to be the prerogative of the government and usually the governor has few objections, if any. But the political subtext to the events has made it a political potboiler.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/cm-protests-at-raj-bhavan-what-about-law-order-guv/articleshow/77161977.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Man dies of Covid in hospital, kin blame power failure||AURANGABAD: The family of a senior citizen, who succumbed to Covid-19 in Beed district, has blamed power failure at the civil hospital for the death on Thursday. The deceased man’s son has circulated a video to substantiate their allegations. Beed civil surgeon Ashok Thorat told TOI that they have ordered a probe into the incident. He said there was a problem with the ventilator connection, which was restored immediately. The patient died 24 hours after the incident, he said. The patient’s son said that after learning about the power failure, he had rushed to the hospital. He saw his father, who was on ventilator support, struggling to breath. “The hospital staff had also reached there but they could not restart the ventilator. After the incident, my father’s condition deteriorated and he he passed away on Thursday night,” he said. BJP MLC Suresh Dhas said the patient can be seen struggling due to non-functioning ventilator. The patient died within 24 hours of this incident. There should be a high-level probe in this.” Echoing him, Shivsangram Party MLA Vinayak Mete demanded immediate action against those responsible for the lack of basic facilities at the government hospital. Local activist Shrikant Pandit, who knows the family, said he had called the health minister, the chief minister’s office and various authorities to inform them about the incident. Thorat said the video depicts that there was an issue with the connector. “The medical staff can be seen taking efforts to connect the ventilator. It was even connected within a minute. The patient remained on the same ventilator for next 24 hours, before he succumbed,” he said. Thorat said the patient was admitted to the civil hospital on July 23 and had initially tested negative. In a subsequent test, he was found to be covid-19 positive. Beed has reported about 738 covid-19 positive cases, out of which 30 patients have succumbed to the contagion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-dies-of-covid-in-hosp-kin-blame-power-failure/articleshow/77290459.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 25, 2020||Chandigarh||EWS quota in general category: SC clubs Haryana issue with Gujarat case||CHANDIGARH: Petitions challenging the Haryana government’s notification providing 10% vertical reservation to economically weaker sections of general category in Haryana would now be heard and decided by the Supreme Court as it allowed the transfer of all related petitions from the Punjab and Haryana high court. “The points involved in a similar matter pertaining to the state of Gujarat pending before the SC and the petitions pending in the Punjab and Haryana high court require adjudication of substantially the same questions of law. These questions have arisen in two different states and in my opinion these are substantial questions of general importance,” observed Justice Aniruddha Bose of the Supreme Court while withdrawing the hearing of the cases from the high court. The apex court was of the view that the provision of Article 139A of the Constitution relating to withdrawal of a case from a high court to the SC on the ground of pendency before this court of a case involving same or similar questions of law contemplates fulfilment of two conditions — “First, in the case pending before this court, the questions of law involved ought to be the same or substantially the same as those involved in the case in the HC, the withdrawal of which can be asked for. Secondly, this court, while exercising the jurisdiction vested in it under Article 139A of the Constitution must be satisfied that such questions are substantial questions of general importance. Such satisfaction can be on this court’s own motion, on an application made by the attorney general or on the basis of an application made by a party to any such case,” held the Supreme Court. The apex court passed the order while allowing a petition filed by Sunil Rathi and others. Appearing for the petitioners, advocate Ram Naresh Yadav submitted that the matter pending before the Punjab and Haryana HC is being delayed only because of the pendency of similar matter (Gujarat and others versus Dulari Mahesh Basarge and others) before the SC. “In that case, the Gujarat high court on August 4, 2016 quashed the Gujarat government’s ordinance providing for reservation in favour of economically weaker sections of unreserved categories. The same matter has now reached before the SC,” Yadav had contended while seeking transfer of the petitions pending before the high court to SC for adjudication. Strongly opposing the transfer plea, the Haryana government argued the ground that the same issue is pending before the SC is not sufficient for transfer of the proceedings from the high court to the apex court. In this case, petitioner Sunil Rathi, a resident of village Lakhan Majra in Rohtak district and others had applied for the post of shift attendant in the Haryana power department. Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) had in February 2016 advertised 2,426 posts. According to the petitioners, 10% of 2,426 posts of shift attendant were reserved for economically backward persons from general category, thus violating the law laid down by the SC holding that reservation beyond 50% is not permissible. They also argued that by providing 10% reservation for this category, the total reservation had increased up to 60% — a violation of the 50% ceiling stipulated by the apex court in the case of Indira Sawhney versus the Union of India. The petitioners have been seeking directions to set-aside the Notification No 733 SW (1)-2013 dated September 27, 2013 vide which the Haryana government provided 10% vertical reservation for economic backward persons from general category in the state jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ews-quota-in-general-category-sc-clubs-haryana-issue-with-guj-case/articleshow/77157970.cms||Ajay Sura
July 25, 2020||Chennai||Kanda Sashti row: YouTuber sent to 4-day police custody||CHENNAI: A city court has sent M Senthilvasan – member of YouTube channel Karuppar Kootam – to four days of police custody in connection with the row over a video post ridiculing devotional song Kanda Sashti Kavacham. Chief metropolitan magistrate Roslyn Durai, however, refused custody of the owner of the channel N Surendar to the CCB, concurring with the contention of his counsel that CCB had his custody for 24 hours between his surrender and remand. The court also pointed out that the CCB had no specific grounds on which further custodial interrogation of Surendar is claimed. “The contention of Surender that police custody is sought to foist another alleged confession on him cannot be ignored, in view of no specific grounds sought in the petition,” the magistrate said. However, since the CCB submitted that custodial interrogation of Senthilvasan is required to probe various issues including analytical decisions taken, selection of topic, sponsor details, funding and financial transactions, the court granted his custody from July 24 to July 27. The CCB has been directed to produce Senthilvasan at 6pm on July 27 before the court. CCB was further directed to permit the accused to speak to his advocate through phone once every day. “The CCB shall ensure that the accused is provided with food, shelter and any required medical treatment at government expense, and shall not be harmed in any manner,” the court said. The issue pertains to a complaint filed by advocate R C Paul Kanakaraj, head of the BJP’s Tamil Nadu advocate wing. Based on the complaint the CCB registered FIR under Sections 153, 153(A)(1)(a), 295(P), 505 (1)(b) and 505(2) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/kanda-sashti-row-youtuber-sent-to-4-day-police-custody/articleshow/77157971.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Hyderabad||AP: GGH mortuary piles up with bodies of Covid-19 victims||GUNTUR:The mortuary in Government General Hospital (GGH), Guntur, is now full with the bodies of Covid-19 victims as relatives fail to turn up to claim them fearing novel coronavirus infection. According to sources, the mortuary has 46 bodies while its capacity is only for 30. Sources said GGH authorities could not release a few bodies due to delay in Covid-19 test results. B Rajasekhar, Covid-19 special officer, visited GGH on Friday and directed officials to take immediate measures to dispose of the bodies from the mortuary. The mortuary staff are unable to dump bodies in the cold storage chambers since they fear risk of infection if they go inside the mortuary. Sources said the situation had worsened as in many cases, family members of the deceased Covid-19 patients were not coming forward to collect the bodies. Family members are not taking calls on their cell phones and not willing to visit the hospital due to the fear of getting infected with Covid-19. There were instances when families urged the authorities to perform the final rites by themselves. Sources said the GGH superintendent had taken the issue to notice of district collector with a request to take measures to dispose of the bodies. The collector had constituted a committee headed by revenue divisional officer (RDO) Bhaskara Reddy to take a final call on conducting final rites of Covid-19 victims. The committee is empowered to take consent of the family of the deceased for conducting the final rites as per their religious traditions. However, the panel never met since its formation to discuss the issue of disposal of the bodies, said the sources. Citing work pressure, officials refused to perform final rites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ggh-mortuary-piles-up-with-bodies-of-covid-19-victims/articleshow/77157983.cms||Samdani MN
July 25, 2020||Chandigarh||In a first, admissions for BA courses to go online in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: For the first time, all city colleges will hold decentralised and online admissions for BA in their respective colleges without conducting any physical counselling for the 2020-21 academic session. Online admission will be held for around 2,150 seats of BA in four government colleges and 5,800 seats in six private colleges. There are around 16,000 seats for joint prospectus courses in all city colleges. Rupinderjit Singh Brar, director, higher education made an announcement to the effect after launching a joint prospectus for centralised admission in all courses except BA. According to him, all government colleges have a common schedule for online BA admission while private colleges will fix their own dates, which will be shared with applicants on their college prospectus. This year, no physical help desk will be set up in the college. Each college has been asked to provide a mobile helpline number and e-mail ID on which applicants can make calls. For government colleges, applicants will have to submit a one-time registration fee of Rs 70.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-a-first-city-colleges-to-hold-decentralised-admissions-for-ba-online/articleshow/77158011.cms||Aarti Kapur
July 25, 2020||Kanpur||IPS officer among 11 cops suspended||KANPUR: Eleven police personnel including an IPS officer were suspended on Friday after a lab technician, whose family alleged that kidnappers had escaped with a ransom of Rs 30 lakh in presence of police, was found to have been killed a few days after the kidnapping. A probe has also been ordered in this regard. SP South Aparna Gupta, DSP Manoj Gupta, former inspector in charge of Barra Ranjeet Rai, outpost in charge Rajesh Kumar, sub-inspector Yogendra Pratap Singh and six constables were suspended on negligence charge, police said. To recall, Sanjeet’s family had alleged on July 14 that he was kidnapped on June 22, following which they were asked by the police to arrange a ransom of Rs 30 lakh and hand it over to the kidnappers. They claimed they threw bag containing cash on a road in the presence of police, who could not prevent kidnappers from escaping with bag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/ips-officer-among-11-cops-suspended/articleshow/77159449.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt says ‘no fee’ order subject to HC nod||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Friday asked the state government to furnish the English translation of its resolution prohibiting private schools from charging fees during lockdown, and about its policy for online education. The court said it would hear the issue further on July 29. The state government has claimed it issued the order on the basis of proceedings in three different PILs. The issue came up during the hearing of the suo motu PIL on Covid-19 and lockdown. Advocate Vishal Dave, appearing on behalf of a parents’ association, submitted that private schools have stopped online classes in reaction to the government’s decision though 70% of them have already received school fees. The chief justice asked the government how private schools are to give salaries to teachers and other non-teaching staff. To this, the advocate general submitted that the decision is subject to the high court’s approval. Hearing this, advocate Anand Yagnik submitted that it was an attempt by the state government to shift the entire blame of their decision on the high court’s order, because people have started to suffer due to this development. In another PIL, advocate Rahil Jain submitted that online education activity should be stopped for kids who are in the pre-primary section. After a brief hearing on these subjects, the judges decided to discuss the issue further on July 29 after the government supplied a translated copy of its resolution. Earlier, the high court had insisted that the state government should negotiate the issue of fees with private schools so that parents affected by pandemic-related problems may get some relief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-says-no-fee-order-subject-to-hc-nod/articleshow/77158027.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Gale destroys more than 10k plantain trees across Mettupalayam||Coimbatore: Gale has destroyed more than 10000 plantain trees in villages across Mettupalayam. Heavy rains lashed over Mettupalayam and its surrounding areas like Karamadai over the past week. On Thursday the showers were accompanied by strong winds which uprooted plantain trees in several acres.Farmers said there are plantain farms spread across several acres in Karamadai, Sirumugai and other places surrounding Mettupalayam. The rains on Thursday had damaged the plantain in Pungampalayam and Marudhur villages. Farmers here cultivate various varieites including Poovan, nendhren and robusta.Farmers also said the plantain trees would have been ready for harvest in the next few weeks. The winds had damaged flowers in several trees in addition to uprooting many. “We had erected poles next to each tree to support it and withstand the wind. However, the winds were so strong that they pushed aside the poles too,” said a farmer. It costs upto Rs 150 for raising each plantain tree and only if the tree yields multiple bunches can the farmers get returns. Now, they could collect a few undamaged flowers from the collapsed trees which could be sold only for a pittance of the input cost. Farmers have appealed the agriculture department officials to provide them compensation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gale-destroys-more-than-10k-plantain-trees-across-mettupalayam/articleshow/77159698.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘Math 2’ will be optional from 2021 Class X exam||PANAJI: Students, who do not wish to study mathematics further or do not want to join the science stream after Class X, will be able to opt for ‘mathematics 2’ for the Class X public exam from March 2021 onwards, the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education has told schools. ‘Mathematics 2’ will see students study the same syllabus as ‘mathematics 1’, but these students will be given a question paper with a lower difficulty level. Goa Board has asked schools to send the names of students who want to opt for ‘mathematics 2’ to the board latest by September 30. “Academic Council of the Board in its meeting dated February 24, 2020, decided to introduce mathematics level 2 at Class X from the academic year 2020-21 onwards,” Goa Board secretary Bhagirath Shetye told schools. The board has stated that students who clear Class X public exam with ‘mathematics 2’ will not be able to join science stream from Class XI. However, if a student passes ‘mathematics 2’ at the Class X exam, he or she could be permitted an opportunity to answer the supplementary exam for ‘mathematics 1’, if they so desire. The student will require prior permission of the board to be able to make such a switch. Similarly, if a student appears for ‘mathematics 1’ at the Class X exam and gets the remark ‘needs improvement’, he or she can apply for the board’s permission to appear for ‘mathematics 2’ paper at the supplementary exam. “As the syllabus is same no extra teacher will be provided. There will not be separate classroom teaching for students studying level 2 Mathematics and if so, no extra work load will be counted for teaching mathematics level 2,” the board told schools. Schools have been told to identify students who would want to appear for ‘mathematics 2’ and inform the board of their names by September 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/math-2-will-be-optional-from-2021-class-x-exam/articleshow/77160434.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur kidnap & murder: Lab technician strangled in captivity, body dumped in river||KANPUR: Twenty days after the Bikru ambush in which 8 cops were killed, Kanpur police suffered another setback when two arrested kidnappers of a 28-year-old laboratory technician, Sanjeet Yadav, squealed before interrogators that they had killed and dumped the captive’s body in Pandu river within a week of taking him hostage. The high-voltage kidnapping drama had grabbed eyeballs amidst the Vikas Dubey episode after a viral video on July 14 showed wailing family members allege that police failed to nab the kidnappers from fleeing with Rs 30 lakh ransom dropped from an overbridge in Kanpur. Five people, including a woman and two friends of Yadav were arrested late Thursday, police said. In a damage-control exercise, the state government on Friday swiftly suspended 11 police personnel, including two senior officers for laxity. Additional director general of police B P Jogdand was directed to probe whether any ransom money exchanged hands even as divers scoured the Pandu river for the technician’s body. The big heads to roll included SP South, Aparna Gupta, deputy superintendent of police, Manoj Kumar Gupta, SHO, Barra, Ranjit Rai and beat in charge Rajesh Kumar. Senior Superintendent of Police, Kanpur, Dinesh Kumar Prabhu, told reporters that a probe confirmed Yadav was murdered by his abductors and two arrested suspects confessed to the crime. “Two of the accused, who were earlier Yadav’s colleagues at a pathology lab, tried to mislead police, but later admitted killing Yadav either on June 26 or June 27,” he said. However, there was a fresh twist to the kidnapping saga after a video emerged on Friday in which Yadav’s father could be heard confessing to investigators he had stashed fake currency notes in the ransom bag. Efforts are on to trace Yadav’s bike and mobile phone, which have been missing since he was kidnapped, the SSP said. Yadav went missing on June 22, and a complaint was lodged by family members at Barra police station on the next day. The missing diary was converted into kidnapping case on June 26. On June 29, the family received the first ransom call. Several teams, including personnel from crime branch and surveillance cell were formed for a breakthrough. On July 14, police were jolted into action after a viral video showed Yadav’s sister, Ruchi, alleging that cops failed to nab the captors despite payment of Rs 30lakh ransom. The next day, another video of Ruchi emerged, wherein she was heard saying no ransom was paid to kidnappers and she gave the statement to create pressure on police. Another video in quick succession showed Ruchi accusing a crime branch official of coercing her to admit that no ransom was paid even though money exchanged hands at police’s behest. On Thursday, five suspects, Gyanendra, Kuldeep, Neelu, Ramji and Preeti were taken into custody by Kanpur police and two among them, Kuldeep and Ramji, who were Sanjeet's friends, confessed to killing Yadav. They said they had taken a room on rent at Ratan Lal Nagar to keep the lab technician captive. When he tried to escape, they strangled him and tossed his body in the Pandu river,” the SSP said. SSP Dinesh Kumar Prabhu said, a bag stashed with cash was tossed from an overbridge near Barra bypass by Yadav’s family, but kidnap kingpin Gyanendra denied receiving the money. Talking to TOI, IG Mohit Agarwal, however, said, “The family has been claiming ransom was paid to kidnappers, but no money exchanged hands. We are probing the case from all angles.” A pall of gloom enveloped Yadav’s house and police inaction left many shocked. Family and relatives created a ruckus soon after they received the news of death. They had to be pacified by senior police officials. “We had received more than 15 ransom calls,” said Yadav’s sister. They also questioned the lax role of police in saving Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kanpur-kidnap-murder-lab-technician-strangled-in-captivity-body-dumped-in-river/articleshow/77159380.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 25, 2020||Jaipur||Horse-trading: Sanjay Jain taken to Manesar||JAIPUR: Sanjay Jain, the broker who was arrested by Special Operations Group (SOG) in perceived attempts to topple the Congress government, was taken to Manesar on Thursday to confirm his meeting of the MLAs who are apparently staying in a resort there. Jain’s remand in judicial custody ended after being produced in court on Friday. Ashok Rathore, ADG, SOG and ATS, told TOI, “Jain was taken to Manesar on Thursday to confirm his earlier visit to that place in connection with any meeting with the MLAs. He confirmed that he had gone, but claimed he did not meet anyone. We are confirming it otherwise.” Jain’s voice spectrography test has been scheduled for July 29. On Thursday, notices were served to two private resorts in Manesar to provide CCTV camera footage from July 10 as well as details of the fact if a room was booked in the name of suspended Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, who is suspected to be staying in one of the two hotels. On Friday, notices were also served to four people — Tanveer Singh, Balwant Singh, Digvijay Raj Singh, who are witnesses, and Karni Singh, who is an accused in the case. According to sources, Karni Singh has been instrumental in the conspiracy to lure MLAs. Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi had lodged two FIRs and one of the FIRs mentioned Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, Gajendra Singh and Jain. The FIRs were lodged after two audio clips went viral in which the trio could be heard discussing alleged horse-trading of MLAs. Since the arrests started on July 11 in the perceived attempts of horse-trading of MLAs, SOG has sent notices to 17 political leaders though none have responded. The team which had gone to Delhi and Manesar has been unable to contact Sharma despite Rajasthan DGP writing to top cops of Haryana as well as Delhi to provide assistance in investigation. SOG had also served a notice to Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhwat, though he is yet to respond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sanjay-jain-taken-to-manesar/articleshow/77159697.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Ajmer||Horse-trading: Sanjay Jain taken to Manesar||JAIPUR: Sanjay Jain, the broker who was arrested by Special Operations Group (SOG) in perceived attempts to topple the Congress government, was taken to Manesar on Thursday to confirm his meeting of the MLAs who are apparently staying in a resort there. Jain’s remand in judicial custody ended after being produced in court on Friday. Ashok Rathore, ADG, SOG and ATS, told TOI, “Jain was taken to Manesar on Thursday to confirm his earlier visit to that place in connection with any meeting with the MLAs. He confirmed that he had gone, but claimed he did not meet anyone. We are confirming it otherwise.” Jain’s voice spectrography test has been scheduled for July 29. On Thursday, notices were served to two private resorts in Manesar to provide CCTV camera footage from July 10 as well as details of the fact if a room was booked in the name of suspended Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, who is suspected to be staying in one of the two hotels. On Friday, notices were also served to four people — Tanveer Singh, Balwant Singh, Digvijay Raj Singh, who are witnesses, and Karni Singh, who is an accused in the case. According to sources, Karni Singh has been instrumental in the conspiracy to lure MLAs. Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi had lodged two FIRs and one of the FIRs mentioned Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, Gajendra Singh and Jain. The FIRs were lodged after two audio clips went viral in which the trio could be heard discussing alleged horse-trading of MLAs. Since the arrests started on July 11 in the perceived attempts of horse-trading of MLAs, SOG has sent notices to 17 political leaders though none have responded. The team which had gone to Delhi and Manesar has been unable to contact Sharma despite Rajasthan DGP writing to top cops of Haryana as well as Delhi to provide assistance in investigation. SOG had also served a notice to Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhwat, though he is yet to respond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/sanjay-jain-taken-to-manesar/articleshow/77162291.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Jodhpur||Horse-trading: Sanjay Jain taken to Manesar||JAIPUR: Sanjay Jain, the broker who was arrested by Special Operations Group (SOG) in perceived attempts to topple the Congress government, was taken to Manesar on Thursday to confirm his meeting of the MLAs who are apparently staying in a resort there. Jain’s remand in judicial custody ended after being produced in court on Friday. Ashok Rathore, ADG, SOG and ATS, told TOI, “Jain was taken to Manesar on Thursday to confirm his earlier visit to that place in connection with any meeting with the MLAs. He confirmed that he had gone, but claimed he did not meet anyone. We are confirming it otherwise.” Jain’s voice spectrography test has been scheduled for July 29. On Thursday, notices were served to two private resorts in Manesar to provide CCTV camera footage from July 10 as well as details of the fact if a room was booked in the name of suspended Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, who is suspected to be staying in one of the two hotels. On Friday, notices were also served to four people — Tanveer Singh, Balwant Singh, Digvijay Raj Singh, who are witnesses, and Karni Singh, who is an accused in the case. According to sources, Karni Singh has been instrumental in the conspiracy to lure MLAs. Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi had lodged two FIRs and one of the FIRs mentioned Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, Gajendra Singh and Jain. The FIRs were lodged after two audio clips went viral in which the trio could be heard discussing alleged horse-trading of MLAs. Since the arrests started on July 11 in the perceived attempts of horse-trading of MLAs, SOG has sent notices to 17 political leaders though none have responded. The team which had gone to Delhi and Manesar has been unable to contact Sharma despite Rajasthan DGP writing to top cops of Haryana as well as Delhi to provide assistance in investigation. SOG had also served a notice to Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhwat, though he is yet to respond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/sanjay-jain-taken-to-manesar/articleshow/77162289.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Udaipur||Horse-trading: Sanjay Jain taken to Manesar||JAIPUR: Sanjay Jain, the broker who was arrested by Special Operations Group (SOG) in perceived attempts to topple the Congress government, was taken to Manesar on Thursday to confirm his meeting of the MLAs who are apparently staying in a resort there. Jain’s remand in judicial custody ended after being produced in court on Friday. Ashok Rathore, ADG, SOG and ATS, told TOI, “Jain was taken to Manesar on Thursday to confirm his earlier visit to that place in connection with any meeting with the MLAs. He confirmed that he had gone, but claimed he did not meet anyone. We are confirming it otherwise.” Jain’s voice spectrography test has been scheduled for July 29. On Thursday, notices were served to two private resorts in Manesar to provide CCTV camera footage from July 10 as well as details of the fact if a room was booked in the name of suspended Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, who is suspected to be staying in one of the two hotels. On Friday, notices were also served to four people — Tanveer Singh, Balwant Singh, Digvijay Raj Singh, who are witnesses, and Karni Singh, who is an accused in the case. According to sources, Karni Singh has been instrumental in the conspiracy to lure MLAs. Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi had lodged two FIRs and one of the FIRs mentioned Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, Gajendra Singh and Jain. The FIRs were lodged after two audio clips went viral in which the trio could be heard discussing alleged horse-trading of MLAs. Since the arrests started on July 11 in the perceived attempts of horse-trading of MLAs, SOG has sent notices to 17 political leaders though none have responded. The team which had gone to Delhi and Manesar has been unable to contact Sharma despite Rajasthan DGP writing to top cops of Haryana as well as Delhi to provide assistance in investigation. SOG had also served a notice to Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhwat, though he is yet to respond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/sanjay-jain-taken-to-manesar/articleshow/77162290.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Delhi||A quarter of Delhi can fight Covid, but how well?||NEW DELHI: Delhi government and National Centre for Disease Control have planned to conduct a sample survey among people who recently underwent the serological survey in the capital. The step is being taken to find out the prevalence of Covid-19 antibodies and its sustainability in people who were infected by the novel coronavirus. In all, 21,387 people across Delhi’s 11 districts underwent the serological survey, which revealed that antibodies were present in 23.5% of the population. This survey is being planned to find out the quality of antibodies and its sustainability to help the government in its Covid management efforts. The samples would be collected from those who tested positive for antibodies, said sources. At least three senior officials, who did not want to be quoted, said that discussions have been held on the issue and the exercise was currently in its initial stage. People who were infected with the virus and subsequently recovered are believed to be resistant to Covid-19 because of the antibodies produced in their bodies. Multiple studies suggest that the antibodies begin to decrease in 2-3 months. The sero survey was conducted in the capital between June 27 and July 10. The highest presence of antibodies was found in people in Central district and lowest in South West district. The most congested districts of the city, like North East and Shahdara, had the highest prevalence of antibodies. A government doctor said many people who came for plasma donation had a very low amount of antibodies, so were not suitable for transfusion. Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak Hospital, said, “Some people have antibody titers up to 600 or above. Plasma from such people is very effective. Some people had titers below 10. In many people, the antibodies develop within 2-3 weeks, while in some it doesn’t get created even after two months. It depends on the fitness and immunity level of the person.” Dr Mahesh Verma, head of the Delhi government committee formed to strengthen the preparedness of hospitals in fighting Covid-19, said the behaviour of the virus was unpredictable. “There is a shortage of research and evidence, so more information can be used to sharpen the response to the pandemic. Compared with the beginning of the fight, the response to it has already become stronger. The positivity rate and mortality rate have dropped sharply in Delhi,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-quarter-of-city-can-fight-covid-but-how-well/articleshow/77158051.cms||AlokKNMishra
July 25, 2020||Lucknow||LK Advani deposes in Babri case, cries political vendetta||LUCKNOW: Former deputy prime minister LK Advani on Friday denied his involvement in the alleged conspiracy along with ‘kar sevaks’ to demolish the disputed structure in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992, pleading that he was unnecessarily dragged in the Babri mosque demolition case owing to political reasons. Claiming himself to be completely innocent, Advani told Special CBI Judge SK Yadav in Lucknow that the investigation was conducted under political pressure and the chargesheet was forwarded on the basis of fabricated evidence. Advani was deposing under Section 313 of CrPC through video-conferencing from Delhi. The proceedings were mandatory in order to enable the 90-year-old BJP veteran, who is one of the 32 accused facing trial in the case, to plead his innocence if he so considered. The special court has been recording the statement of accused persons since July 4 under these provisions. While the special judge put forth 1,050 questions already framed for the purpose, Advani answered them very cautiously. He denied every allegation of conspiracy and pressed that there was no occasion to make him stand on trial. As the judge narrated him the version of certain video clippings, newspapers and other evidence relating to the 1992 incident, Advani shrugged off them saying that the evidence was totally false and the same were produced in the court due to political influence and ideological inclination. As the judge indicated him the evidence towards his provocative speeches to 'kar sevaks', the Bharatiya Janata Party’s veteran leader said that the evidence was false and investigators included video cassettes and newspapers in the probe for political malice. The judge described him the evidence furnished by CBI witness on the basis of a news item in an English newspaper published on October 24, 1990, about his arrest a day before with title ‘Advani arrested in Samastipur’. The edition carried the news relating to call for Bharat Bandh by the leaders of Vishwa Hindu Parishad and other organizations in protest against his arrest. The edition carried Shiv Sena leader Bala Saheb Thackeray’s statement that the ‘bandh will be peaceful’. Even then some 'kar sevaks' succeeded to climb on the disputed structure and damaged it. Some 'kar sevaks' lost their lives in police firing on October 10, 1990, during ‘Kar sewa’. On completion of this description, the judge asked Advani online as to what he had to say about this. The Advani’s deposition began at around 11 am on Friday as he appeared in the court online from Delhi along with his lawyer Mahipal Ahluwali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lk-advani-deposes-in-babri-case-cries-political-vendetta/articleshow/77160428.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
July 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Sans TV, smartphone, tribal kids fall behind in studies||COIMBATORE: A week has lapsed since T Arunkumar, who completed Class IX from the government high school in Aliyar, received Class X books from the school. But, he is yet to start studies – not because of lack of intent but because he doesn’t have a smart phone to scan QR codes in textbooks to access detailed videos on each module in a chapter for grasping them better. He also won’t be able to access classes on Kalvi TV, the state government’s education channel launched on July 14, because he neither has a television nor electricity connection at home. Arun, who resides at Anbu Nagar, a tribal settlement in Aliyar, says, “In Class IX textbooks too there were similar QR codes. Our teacher used to let us watch the videos on his smartphone. And it helped me understand each lesson better. But this year, the schools are not open. My parents are daily wage labourers and we don’t have a television or a smartphone at home. I don’t know how I am going to manage it.” Only a few of the 36 families in the tribal settlement have electricity connection. Majority of them are living in huts. Another student M Ganesh said they used to visit their friends’ houses at times to watch television. “Because of the pandemic situation, we are not allowed to go to their house now.” Arun’s father R Thangavel said they were ready to pay both the deposit and bimonthly tariff if officials provide them electricity connection. “We had made several representations to higher officials in this regard, but to no avail.” The situation isn’t any different for the students from Ellappa Colony, Puliyankandi, Kattupatti, Kuzhipatti, Kumatti and several other tribal settlements in and around Anaimalai taluk. Kaliamma, who is residing with her children at her workplace at Gopalpathy, said, “My children – one in Class IX and another in Class VII – were studying in a residential school in Valparai. They were sent home after the lockdown. The hut we have put up on farmland does not have electricity connection or television. Do we have an option other than to wait for the school to reopen?” V S Paramasivam, district president of Tamil Nadu Tribal People Association, said the government should make some alternative arrangements for unprivileged students, who would otherwise gradually lose interest in studies. In that case, he said, all the efforts that the state government, teachers and volunteers have been making for upliftment of tribal community would go in vein. “The government should deploy at least a teacher for four to five tribal settlements to teach students the basics to retain their interest in studies. If the government fails to intervene, the dropout rate would be high,” he said. When contacted, Chief Educational Officer P Usha said, “We will inquire into how many students in the area need help. We would see whether we can give them network facilities individually, so that they can access Kalvi TV programmes online on YouTube. If that's not possible, we would arrange for solar panels and television in some common facility in their locality, where students can visit and watch Kalvi TV.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/sans-tv-smartphone-tribal-students-stare-at-bleak-future/articleshow/77159718.cms||Nivedha Selvam
July 25, 2020||Nagpur||Citing HC’s Alexis Hosp ruling, Tiwari says suspend Gantawar||Nagpur: On a day when Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court slammed NMC for its inept handling of controversy surrounding Alexis Hospital, senior BJP corporator Dayashankar Tiwari on Friday once again accused municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe for shielding controversial NMC deputy chief medical officer Dr Pravin Gantawar, whose video of visiting Alexis Hospital along with alleged extortionist Sahil Sayeed has gone viral. Addressing a press conference on Friday, Tiwari alleged that Alexis Hospital management had lodged a harassment complaint against Dr Gantawar and Sahil at Mankapur police station on July 7. Without verifying allegations levelled by Sahil, NMC had penalized the hospital, which challenged the civic body’s decision in the high court. He also questioned the functioning of health department officials and role of committee formed to implement Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PCPNDT) Act. Even the high court has questioned this, claimed Tiwari. “What we find is that the conduct of the respondent number 2 (Dr Gantawar) reflects high probability of bias and a hidden motive inconsistent with fair performance of his duties creating an impression that something has gone wrong of the nature and degree, which requires intervention by this court,” stated Tiwari quoting the high court’s observations. Tiwari alleged Dr Gantawar is continuously flouting norms, misusing his post and has ties with anti-social elements. Despite all this, Mundhe’s love for Dr Gantawar remains, said Tiwari citing the municipal commissioner sending the general body’s ruling to suspend Dr Gantawar to the state government for nullifying it. The senior BJP leader demanded the municipal commissioner to suspend Dr Gantawar and institute an inquiry against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/citing-hcs-alexis-hosp-ruling-tiwari-says-suspend-gantawar/articleshow/77158033.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Goa||Only winnable candidates will get assembly poll tickets: Goa minister Michael Lobo||PANAJI: Ports minister Michael Lobo on Friday said candidates proving winnability would get BJP tickets for the next assembly polls and that tickets would not be given merely because a person is a sitting MLA or minister. The minister, who represents the Calangute constituency, said he had advised BJP to give tickets to winnable candidates ahead of the 2017 assembly elections, but his advice was not heeded. “Because of this, we had to go around to get MLAs to form the government,” he said, even as he admitted that there has been resentment in BJP after legislators from Congress and MGP joined the party. Lobo said the party will now conduct a survey to ascertain who is capable of winning elections in their respective constituencies. “Through the survey, we will be able to know for sure who can win and that person will get a ticket for that constituency. A ticket will not be given just because the person is a minister. Why should it be given to those who claim they’ve done a lot of party work?” Lobo said. “If a candidate does not have winnability, how can he win? How will the party get numbers?” Reacting to reports of a meeting between former chief minister Manohar Parrikar’s son Utpal and former BJP Tivim MLA Kiran Kandolkar, Lobo said Utpal was a smart person and would not take a wrong decision. Kandolkar last week announced that he would quit BJP and contest elections from the Aldona constituency. “He must be seeking to form a new party but I don’t think Utpal will be a part of such things,” Lobo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lobo-only-winnablecandidates-will-getassembly-poll-tickets/articleshow/77160457.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Dist to get one more Covid care centre as tally nears 3K||Coimbatore: The district recorded 189 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths on Friday, even as 180 patients were discharged from various hospitals after they fully recovered. While the total number of novel coronavirus cases in the district has touched 2,966, of which 1,275 are active cases, the toll now stands at 32.As the district is expected to record at least another 800 cases over the next five days, the health department has begun efforts to ramp up bed strength.The new cases include 14 from the Rapid Action Force base in Mahalingapuram in Vellalore, seven from CK Colony in New Siddhapudur, another seven from Saramedu and five from Palli Street in Veerakeralam. Outside the city corporation limits, the Annur cluster continued to grow with five more people testing positive for the virus.The remaining cases were spread across RS Puram, Ukkadam, Vedapatti, Sundapalayam, Chettipalayam, Karumbukadai, Puliyakulam, Ondipudur, Sulur, Kuniyamuthur, Saravanampatti, Vadamadurai and Vellaikinaru.One of the four deceased was a 52-year-old man, who was rushed to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital on Monday with severe head injuries that he sustained in a road accident. His throat swab was taken for testing the same day. He had coronary artery disease as well. He died on Tuesday. Meanwhile, test results showed him positive for the virus.The remaining were a 70-year-old diabetic, who was hospitalized on Tuesday and died of severe pneumonia on Wednesday at 4.30pm; a 61-year-old man with comorbidities such as diabetes and renal failure who died on Wednesday, two days after hospitalization; and a 59-year-old man, who was admitted to the ESI Hospital on July 18. He died of severe breathing difficulty on Thursday morning, after 60% of his lungs was affected.The public health department is, meanwhile, working on setting up another Covid care centre, this time on the Karunya University premises at Madhampalayam. It will have 360 beds and start accommodating patients when the Hindusthan Hospital at Mettupalayam gets full.The newly opened Covid care centre at Codissia trade fair complex would take two more days to admit patients as authorities are constructing extra toilets for patients. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “We are constructing 15 mobile toilets each for men and women, to make the stay more comfortable for patients.”While the district’s Covid-19 tally is estimated to touch 4,000 by August 1, the state health department, which expect the count to hit 3,800 by July 29, has asked health officials ready themselves for any emergency situation.“We are well prepared for any number of cases. Fortunately, most of the cases are asymptomatic or have extremely mild symptoms like sore throat and fever. As long as we ensure that only people who need hospitalization occupy hospital beds, there won’t be any shortage of beds,” the official said.Many private hospitals that had obtained approval to treat Covid-19 patients have begun admitting them and ramping up their bed strength. City-based Kovai Medical Centre and Hospital has allotted another 100-bed hospital, KMCH Kovilpalayam, for the purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-to-get-one-more-covid-care-centre-as-tally-nears-3k/articleshow/77159699.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Chandigarh||PU may conduct aptitude tests for fresh admissions||Chandigarh: Panjab University may conduct online aptitude tests for undergraduate courses on campus. During a meeting of 15 chairpersons of departments offering undergraduate courses with the dean, university instructions, discussions on how best to conduct aptitude tests for admissions in the absence of physical counselling were held. The officials decided on holding a trial for online aptitude tests and considering relaxations in admission norms in case of a problem. No final decision has been taken except for the trial to be conducted by the departments. During discussions on online teaching, it was proposed that all sections be merged in one class. Members objected to this saying that one teacher cannot cater to students’ queries. Meanwhile, the committee constituted for admission and examination will table its report for final approval in the Syndicate meeting, which has been postponed. Various proposals on online classes, admissions and examination have been mooted by sub-committees constituted for the university and campus respectively. These proposals are pending approval.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-may-conduct-aptitude-tests-for-fresh-admissions/articleshow/77158029.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh excise and taxation dept unearths tax credit scam||CHANDIGARH: The UT excise and taxation department on Friday unearthed a tax credit scam of crores of crores after conducting searches at different business premises of six companies. On the directions of deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar, six teams conducted searches at SR agencies, Global Home Solutions, Rajat Enterprises, Polytech and Euro Sales and Amba Agencies, all having offices in Manimajra. According to officials, all these companies deal in pipes and tiles. Rajesh Behal is the partner in SR agencies, and proprietor of Global Home Solutions. Similarly, Behal is the proprietor of Rajat Enterprises, Polytech and Euro Sales. Likewise, Monika Garg is proprietor of Amba Agencies; who are relatives and connected with each other, and allegedly involved in fraudulently goods and service credit by circular trading. An official said all these six firms conducted sale of Rs 61 crore under the GST but did not pay even a single amount of tax to the government and adjusted against manipulated input tax credits. All these firms have not been filing their GSTR-3B monthly tax returns from February. During the searches, five offices were found closed. An inquiry revealed that no such firms exist at the given addresses and only SR agencies business premises was found open and the other firms were being run from its premises. After preliminary investigations, the officials noticed that firms generated e-way bills using motor cycles, three wheelers and even ambulances for showing transportation of goods and certain incriminating documents of the firms have been taken into possession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-dept-unearths-tax-credit-scam/articleshow/77158048.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
July 25, 2020||Chandigarh||10 ventilators under PM Cares Fund not ‘technically fit’ at PGI Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: Ten ventilators at the Covid hospital in PGI have been found to be inappropriate for patients, according to the hospital authorities. They were part of the 20 ventilators the UT administration had bought under the PM Cares Fund for the Covid hospital in Sector 48 that is under Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32. As the Sector 48 hospital had not started functioning, 10 of the 20 ventilators were sent to PGI. “We did not find them technically fit for patients. A report has been sent to GMCH. They are still lying with us, as GMCH is yet to pick them up,” said a faculty member. He said, “The mechanics of the ventilators is not as desired. There is no 100% oxygen saturation level as the level of oxygen requirement varies from patient to patient.” Last month, Rs 2,000 crore from the PM Cares Fund had been allocated for the purchase of 50,000 ventilators for government-run hospitals in the country. It is not the first time that these Made in India ventilators have been found to be not satisfactory. In June, 81 ventilators were returned by Mumbai hospitals as they failed to boost oxygen to required levels in critical patients. “We have 15 ICU beds in the Sector 48 hospital. After PGI’s report, we have asked our anaesthesia department to evaluate and test the 10 new ventilators we have got under this grant,” said Dr BS Chavan, director-principal, GMCH.  “The pathology of Covid patients’ lungs varies as it differs from acute respiratory distress syndrome. In patients, mechanical ventilation might further damage the lungs, so we try this as a last resort and instead go for non-invasive ventilator, where no tube is inserted inside,” said a doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/10-ventilators-under-pm-cares-fund-not-technically-fit-at-pgi/articleshow/77158053.cms||Shimona Kanwar
July 25, 2020||Chennai||Patanjali asks Madras HC to vacate stay on use of ‘Coronil’||CHENNAI: A week after the Madras high court restrained Patanjali Ayurveda from using the trademark ‘Coronil’ for its controversial ‘Covid-19 cure’, the company has moved the court seeking to vacate the stay. Patanjali claimed that the trademark infringement suit is part of a larger conspiracy to scuttle its business. When the plea came up for hearing before Justice C V Karthikeyan on Friday, the company requested the court to pass a gag order restraining the media from reporting the case. Refusing to grant any such interim relief, the judge adjourned the hearing to July 27. According to the company, if the injunction order is not vacated, people of the country would not be able to take advantage of the ‘immunity booster tablets’ formulated with huge investments. It further contended that the original manufacturer of the drug is Divya Yog Mandir Trust and Patanjali is only marketing it. Claiming that it started marketing the drug only after making an appropriate application for registering trademark ‘Coronil’ with the trademarks registry, the company said it is a common practice in the pharmaceutical industry to name a drug after an ailment, organ or medical compound. The class of customers, market and mode of purchase of goods were completely different compared to that of Arudra Engineering Private Limited which has claimed that ‘Coronil’ is a trademark owned by it since 1993, the company added that the suit is not maintainable on any grounds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/patanjali-asks-hc-to-vacate-stay-on-use-of-coronil/articleshow/77158092.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Rs 2172 cr projects for Odisha||Bhubaneswar: The state government on Friday cleared four investment proposals in metal and metal downstream sectors worth Rs 2,172.92 crore, which will generate employment opportunities for 1,122 people. The state-level single window clearance authority (SLSWCA) led by chief secretary Asit Tripathy cleared these four proposals. The meeting was held over video conference. The approved proposals include the plan of Rungta Mines Limited (RML) to set up a 34 mtpa beneficiation plant in Sundargarh district at an investment of Rs 975 crore. The RML has planned to develop the facility in two phases. It will employ around 290 people. Another proposal of RML to set up a 20 MTPA underground slurry pipeline from its proposed beneficiation plant at Bonai/Champua sub-division to its three different plant locations also got SLSWCA. The company would invest around Rs 951 crore to set up the slurry pipeline. It would create employment opportunities for 72 people. The chief secretary-led panel also gave its nod to Shyam Metalics and Energy Limited for capacity expansion of its pellet plant in Sambalpur district from 0.3 MTPA to 1.2 MTPA. The company would invest Rs 76.92 crore for the expansion project and generate 610 jobs. Similarly, Wellman Steels Gangeya Supply Agency Private Limited also got clearance to set up 1.8 MTPA beneficiation plant and 1.2 MTPA pellet plant in Mayurbhanj district. The company would invest Rs 170 crore while creating employment opportunities for 150 people. While approving these projects, the chief secretary directed the officials to make an assessment regarding requirement of land and water for these projects and to facilitate all help. Other departments have also been asked to ensure timely and expeditious implementation of these industrial projects. This is the third major approval of industrial projects by the state government amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Earlier, investment projects worth Rs 9,600 crore were approved by the state government in March and June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/rs-2172-cr-projects-for-odisha/articleshow/77158110.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Coimbatore||Insects from godown unsettle residents||Coimbatore: C K Maragatham, a resident of HUDCO Colony in Gandhimanagar, says it has been more than three months since she has slept peacefully owing to insect menace. More than 8,000 residents, who live in and around the Food Corporation of India (FCI) godown in the area, say their situation isn’t any different. There are at least three residential areas near the FCI godown - HUDCO Colony, Murugan Nagar and Shriram Nagar. The godown, with 22 stockyards, stores food grains for the district and neighbouring Tirupur, Erode and the Nilgiris. Residents say insects that come out of the FCI stockyards start swarming their houses by evening. R Udhaykumar, a resident, says, “Everyday, every room of the house will be filled with insects. This is despite covering every window and doors with nets. My two children could not study because insects fall on them, their notebooks and computers.” Udhaykumar’s wife say even cooking food is a problem because of the insect menace. “They fall into food items while preparing them and drinking water. Often, we remove them and have food, as we can’t simply waste them.” Residents say they usually face the insect menace for at least eight months of a year, starting February. During heavy rain, they say, there is a let-up, but only to increase later. “Insects, sometimes, enter children’s ears. So, they sleep with cotton inside the ears. They also bite us, leaving red marks,” says Maragatham. Singanallur MLA Karthik on Friday petitioned the district collector to address the issue. “If the FCI applies pest control on schedule, the issue could be brought under control. The collector said he has deputed a person to inspect the conditions in the godown,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/insects-from-godown-unsettle-residents/articleshow/77159720.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Vadodara||Mangal Bazaar downs shutters after infected shopkeeper dies||Vadodara: Shopkeepers in the famous old city market of Mangal Bazaar downed shutters on Friday after a trader there succumbed to Covid-19. The trader had a shop selling electrical goods in the market. The death has left the shopkeepers of the market a worried lot as even before the death that came to light early on Friday, the other traders operating from the market had tested positive. Cases are also being reported in residential areas and other markets around Mangal Bazaar. Jay Thakor, who represents the association of shopkeepers in the eastern parts of the market, said that there was panic in the area. “We have suggested that the shops are closed for fixed days or to work out some other system, but the traders have made heavy losses during the lockdown and are reluctant to stay out of business,” he said.Thakur said that there were hardly any restrictions officially. “Some system has to be worked out to resolve the issue or else the cases will keep on increasing. People from across the city and even outside converge here for shopping or doing business. There are high chances of the infection spreading from here,” he said.With the number of Covid-19 cases increasing steadily, the shopkeepers in different parts of the city have already restricted timings. Shops in Chhani, Gotri and Dashrath area of the city have taken decisions in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/mangal-bazaar-downs-shutters-after-infected-shopkeeper-dies/articleshow/77157661.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Give details of RCs, cops tell RLA||Chandigarh: Police have sought details of registration certificates (RC) of vehicles issued this year from the Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) Chandigarh on a day a court remanded fake agent Suraj Pal of Sector 25 in judicial custody for 14 days. Police are investigating the involvement of officials of RLA in the fraud. Pal was arrested for allegedly duping people by giving them fake vehicle insurance policies. Sector 17 police station SHO Ram Rattan Sharma said, “A man approached a police patrol in Sector 17 and told them that he had taken his vehicle’s insurance policy from Suraj Pal after paying him Rs 2,000. But he found the policy to be fake.” Police had laid a trap near the RLA office, Sector 17, and arrested Pal. Cops had recovered 12 registration certificates of luxury vehicles, three fake insurance policy papers and stamps of Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, from his possession. He revealed he prepared fake policy letters at cyber cafés.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/give-details-of-rcs-cops-tell-rla/articleshow/77158105.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Ministers to promote plasma donation||Bhubaneswar: Chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday roped in his cabinet colleagues to promote plasma donation in the state after critically-ill Covid patients responded well to the plasma therapy. Naveen has assigned different districts to his ministers, who would visit the districts and encourage recovered patients to donate their plasma to treat critically-ill patients, said a communication from the chief minister’s office. The ministers have also been asked to facilitate donation while the chief minister said he would regularly review status of plasma donation. While Niranjan Pujari has been given the responsibility of Puri district, Bikram Keshari Arukh will oversee the plasma donation process in Ganjam and Kandhamal, official sources said. Districts assigned to other ministers include Prafulla Kumar Mallik (Bargarh), Ranendra Pratap Swain (Bhadrak, Kendrapada), Padmanabha Behera (Jharsuguda, Boudh), Pratap Jena (Mayurbhanj, Cuttack), Arun Sahoo (Nayagarh, Khurda), Sudam Marndi (Sonepur), Susanta Singh (Sambalpur, Balangir), Naba Das (Kalahandi, Nuapada), Tukuni Sahu (Deogarh, Sundargarh), Jagannath Saraka (Gajapati, Koraput), Dibya Shankar Mishra (Dhenkanal), Ashok Panda (Angul), Samir Dash (Jajpur), Jyoti Prakash Panigrahi (Balasore), Premananda Naik (Keonjhar), Raghunandan Das (Nabarangpur and Jagatsinghpur), Padmini Dian (Rayagada) and Tusharkanti Behera (Malkangiri) In Odisha, as many as 15,200 Covid-19 positive persons have so far recovered, including 808 on Friday. The recovery rate in Odisha is more than the national average. It is heartening to know that many recovered patients have come forward to donate plasma, said a senior government official. While the state government has set up plasma bank at Cuttack and approved for Rourkela, plasma therapy has started in Cuttack, Bhubaneswar and Berhampur. Two more plasma banks will be set up at Berhampur and Bhubaneswar. A recovered patient can donate plasma four weeks after his/her recovery. One unit of plasma can be used to treat two critically-ill patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/ministers-to-promote-plasma-donation/articleshow/77158089.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Districts brace for second round of sero survey||NEW DELHI: Preparations for the second serological survey has started as the fight against novel coronavirus enters a crucial phase in Delhi. The health department on Friday sent a schedule to all 11 districts and asked the authorities to ready teams for the exercise from August. Delhi government recently announced that it would conduct a monthly sero survey to assess prevalence of immunity among people against Covid-19. The survey will be completed by the fifth day of every month by teams of lab technicians, ASHA workers, paramedics and civil defence volunteers. “The teams engaged in the first survey between June 27 and July 10 will be deployed this time too. In case more people are required, we may turn to teachers,” said an official. The first sero survey, which found the presence of antibodies in nearly a quarter of Delhi’s population, captured the data till June 25 — of the people who have developed antibodies after 15 days of recovery. Till then, 44,765 people recovered in the city, while the count reached 96,699 by July 15. These people will be covered in the survey between August 1 and 5. “The next sero survey may reveal prevalence of antibodies in a much higher percentage of the population,” said Dr Mahesh Verma, head of a Delhi government committee set up to strengthen the Covid preparedness of hospitals. A briefing of district teams will be held next week. “The samples will be collected from new areas to cover fresh grounds. This will help in determining the prevalence of the novel coronavirus infection in new areas, including upscale localities. Slums, unauthorised colonies and housing societies will also be part of it and people from all age groups will be tested to get a proper representation,” said an official. The methodology to be used in selecting the areas will be the same as earlier. “Earlier, samples were collected from every fifth house in the selected localities. The survey will cover areas under containment zones and outside, and the government is likely to increase the sample numbers by 10%,” said an official. According to sources in three districts, nearly 25,000 samples, against 21,387 last time, are likely to be collected from across the city. The final number will be decided after the health department issues a formal order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/districts-brace-for-second-round-of-sero-survey/articleshow/77158140.cms||AlokKNMishra
July 25, 2020||Chandigarh||CBI gets notice in bail plea moved by accused in bribe case||Times News Network Chandigarh: The special CBI court has issued notice to CBI on the bail application moved by Rajat, middleman in the bribe case involving three UT police constables who were booked by the bureau for allegedly demanding a bribe from Maloya resident Deepak Shani. They also threatened Shani of framing him in a false case. Rajat, who is said to have demanded a bribe on behalf of the police, has been arrested by the investigating agency. The matter will come up for hearing on July 29. On June 19, CBI arrested Rajat of Maloya, who acted as a middleman and demanded money from Shani on behalf of constables Nasib Khan, Krishan Malik and Shiv, the SHO’s driver, all from the Maloya police station. Complainant Deepak Shani, a resident of the EWS flats at Maloya stated that on June 15, he, along with his friends, was sitting near his house around 7pm when two policemen came up. In view of the lockdown, Deepak said they ran home at the sight of the police. Around 10 minutes later, Rajat, who was an acquaintance, came to his house and told him that his friends had been caught by the police and had been taken to the police beat box. He asked Deepak to accompany him there. At the beat box, Deepak found two constables, Naseeb Khan and Krishan Malik who allegedly asked him if he was selling drugs in the area. The duo allegedly threatened to register a case against Deepak. The complainant said Rajat intervened and told Deepak that the cops would let him go if he paid a bribe of Rs 20,000. Rajat left the spot and returned at around 10pm. He told Deepak that the matter could be settled for Rs 14,000, after which he would be allowed to go. Deepak had Rs 4,300, which he allegedly handed over to the cops. They returned Rs 300 and asked the complainant to arrange the rest of the money. Deepak returned home after assuring them that he would arrange the money in a few hours. However, he could not do so. On June 16, Rajat called Deepak and asked him to arrange the rest of the money. Deepak then decided to approach the CBI and submitted a complaint against Rajat and the three cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cbi-gets-notice-in-bail-plea-moved-by-accused-in-bribe-case/articleshow/77158068.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Nagpur||ILI patients to be tested for Covid at UPHCs, pvt hosps||Nagpur: In a bid to stem the rising Covid-19 deaths with early detection and treatment, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has started testing all influenza like illness (ILI) patients visiting its 19 urban primary health centres (UPHCs) for coronavirus infection. The civic body has also made this mandatory for private hospitals. The NMC has provided Rapid Antigen Kits to 19 UPHCs and testing has already started from Thursday. It has also been decided not to quarantine persons who test negative in this drive. The decision not to quarantine those who test negative is likely to encourage more people to get themselves tested if they have any symptoms. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, however, made it clear that quarantining of high-risk contacts of Covid patients will continue. “Covid deaths are on the rise due to delay in detection. Early detection and treatment from initial stage can prevent casualties. Some patients have tested positive at the UPHCs,” he said. Mundhe held a meeting with representatives of Indian Medical Association (IMA) and Vidarbha Hospitals Association (VHA) on Friday. He directed private hospitals to test all ILI patients visiting their establishments for Covid. “Some ILI patients had gone to private hospitals. Unfortunately, the hospitals treated them as normal patient. Some of them were tested for Covid only after their condition worsened leading to death. Therefore, Covid testing of ILI patients has been made mandatory for private hospitals too. It will also help in containing spread of the disease to other areas and save doctors and staff from getting infected,” he said. The NMC has decided to procure more Rapid Antigen Kits. Till now, collector Ravindra Thakare has been procuring the kits for the district. The civic body is using the kits at a few institutional quarantine centres. NMC sources told TOI that Mundhe has suggested private hospitals to contact district administration for getting the kits if they find it difficult to procure these on their own. The number of deaths in the district has increased to 70 on Friday. There were 25 deaths till June end and 45 casualties have come in 24 days of July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ili-patients-to-be-tested-for-covid-at-uphcs-pvt-hosps/articleshow/77158115.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Private schools move HC against the fee freeze move||Ahmedabad: The Federation of Self-financed Schools on Friday moved the Gujarat high court challenging the state government’s decision prohibiting them from charging fees as long as the schools remain shut due to Covid-19 pandemic.Many private schools have already stopped online education activities after the state government’s resolution placing a ban on collecting tuition fees until the schools physically reopen. The federation has now challenged the government’s circular in the high court. In absence of any income, the federation has demanded the allocation of funds in government’s Atmanirbhar package for private schools so far as salaries for teaching and non-teaching staff are concerned. It has said that the rest of the expenditure will be borne by school managements, but income of nearly 16 lakh employees engaged in some 16,000 private schools across the state has been adversely affected because of the government’s prohibition on levying fees, said Deepak Rajguru, spokesperson of the federation. The Federation submitted that the state government’s decision is not in the interest of teachers, students as well as education itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/private-schools-move-hc-against-the-fee-freeze-move/articleshow/77158121.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Goa||People my father got into BJP are moving away: Utpal||PANAJI: Former chief minister Manohar Parrikar’s son Utpal said that his father had made various people join the party to make it big, but now they have started moving away from it. Giving the example of former Tivim MLA Kiran Kandolkar, Utpal said, “If I cannot meet and give them audience then why do I need to be into politics.” “I met Kandolkar and impressed upon him that he can meet people. He can work for the people in any constituency and area, but he has to work within the party framework,” Utpal said when asked about his meeting with Kandolkar on Thursday. Utpal said that it is up to Kandolkar whether to form a new political party and go before the public and how much the public will except it. Kandolkar had recently announced that he would quit BJP and form a regional party. He said that he would contest from Aldona. Tivim MLA Nilkant Halarnkar who had defeated Kandolkar in 2017 was among the ten Congress MLAs to join BJP in July 2019. Without naming any MLA, Utpal said that he is not like a person who is scared of disqualification petition and getting oneself admitted in hospital. After Manohar Parrikar’s death a vacuum has been created in the party, Kandolkar told TOI. “I have brought to Utpal’s notice how he has been sidelined in the party and how party is doing injustice to him. Before we used to tell all such things to Parrikar and after his death I felt that I should bring this Utpal’s notice,” Kandolkar said. The former Tivim MLA said that he has informed Utpal about his plans of forming new regional party as a lot of people have decided to form a new party. “People have decided to focus on regional parties by keeping aside national party politics and this was told to him. He gave me a patient hearing. I felt that Utpal is not happy with the state BJP leadership, but central leaders are in touch with Utpal,” Kandolkar said. The former MLA said that he did not see Utpal leaving BJP any time. “After talking to Utpal, I saw the reflection of Parrikar in him. I have urged him to contest the election and we can get Parrikar in Utpal’s form in future. Utpal is positive to contest election. It is up to Utpal to decide whether to come with us, contest as independent or contest on BJP ticket,” the former MLA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/utpal-people-my-father-got-into-bjp-are-moving-away/articleshow/77160462.cms||---
July 25, 2020||India||India moves to buy 6 more Poseidons from US for $1.8bn||NEW DELHI: India has formally kicked off the acquisition process for six more long-range Poseidon-8I aircraft from the US, while a plan is also underway for fast-track procurement of six Predator-B armed drones amidst the ongoing military confrontation with China. India is extensively using the naval P-8I patrol planes, which are packed with radars and electro-optic sensors as well as armed with Harpoon Block-II missiles and MK-54 lightweight torpedoes, for surveillance missions over the Indian Ocean as well as eastern Ladakh. India-China stand-off: Complete coverageThe Navy had inducted eight Boeing-manufactured P-8I aircraft under a $2.1 billion deal inked in January 2009, while the next four will be delivered from this December onwards under another $1.1 billion contract signed in July 2016. Read AlsoNew security protocol to hit Chinese phone, drug companies hardChinese manufacturers that have invested in India to set up manufacturing facilities via the foreign direct investment route will need a fresh security check to be eligible for government contracts, a move that will impact phone and computer-makers as well drug and other equipment manufacturers.Top defence sources on Friday said the “letter of request” for six more P-8Is for around $1.8 billionhas now been issued to the US for the government-to-government deal under Pentagon’s foreign military sales (FMS) programme. “The US, in turn, will soon send the ‘letter of acceptance’ after congressional approval. The contract should be inked by early next year,” said a source. Concurrently, the armed forces are examining “an emergency procurement” of six Predator-B or weaponized Sea Guardian drones from the US in wake of the ongoing confrontation with China along the 3,488-km long Line of Actual Control, especially in eastern Ladakh. Read AlsoLAC: India &amp; China agree on ‘early and complete disengagement’NEW DELHI: Indian and Chinese officials agreed on “early and complete disengagement of troops along the LAC and de-escalation from India-China border areas” at Friday’s meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC) in the wake of lack ofTOI was the first to report last year that India had finalized the plan to acquire 30 Predator-B drones, 10 each for the Army, Navy and IAF, with different payloads to hunt and destroy targets over land and sea. But the high cost of the deal, upwards of $3.5 billion, has somewhat delayed the inking of the final contract. “The original plan for the 30 Predators will take some more time. Meanwhile, the utilization of the fast-track procurement (FTP) route for acquiring six of these drones – two each for the three Services – is now under active consideration,” said another source. It will be a huge jump in unmanned lethal capability for the armed forces if the “hunter-killer” Sea Guardians, with their advanced ground control stations, launch and recovery elements, air-to-ground missiles, smart bombs and the like, are actually acquired by India. The inking of the bilateral military pact with the US called COMCASA (Communications, Compatibility and Security Arrangement) in September 2018 has paved the way for greater access to advanced military technologies with encrypted and secure communications and data links from the country. The six new P-8I aircraft, for instance, will have COMCASA-protected equipment, which are much more advanced and secure than the commercially available ones. The Sea Guardians also have such equipment like advanced Global Positioning System (GPS), Identification Friend or Foe (IFF) receiver and VHF system, which are immune to jamming and spoofing from enemies. As was earlier reported by TOI, the US has already bagged lucrative Indian defence deals worth over $21 billion just since 2007, with latest ones for 24 MH-60 ‘Romeo’ multi-role naval helicopters and six more Apache attack choppers for around $3 billion being inked during President Donald Trump’s visit here in February. Watch Amid tensions with China, India to buy 6 more Poseidons from US||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-moves-to-buy-6-more-poseidons-from-us-for-1-8bn/articleshow/77160923.cms||Rajat Pandit
July 25, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh CM releases aid of Rs 1,000 each for over 9 lakh migrants||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday released financial aid of Rs 1,000 each into the accounts of over 9 lakh migrants who returned to Uttar Pradesh during coronavirus lockdown. Interacting with migrant workers in various parts of the state, the CM asked them if they have been able to get employment and if they have received free ration from the government. Earlier, the state government had announced financial assistance for migrant workers who returned to UP after being rendered jobless during lockdown. On Friday, the government transferred a total of Rs 90.8 crore into the accounts of beneficiaries. “In the first phase, we transferred Rs 1,000 each into the accounts of nearly 10.5 lakh workers on June 13. At least 52 lakh people have received financial assistance while 19 lakh workers have received the amount twice. These workers were employed in other states but now they are back and contributing immensely to the development of Uttar Pradesh,” the CM said. Yogi said the PM Garib Kalyan package was started in which the Centre would give free ration to the needy till November. “The state government has also given free ration to beneficiaries for three months,” the Chief Minister said. He said the government identified the expertise of workers by launching a massive skill mapping project and ensured they got jobs according to their requirement. During interaction with migrants, the CM was informed that many people involved in MNREGA works like digging of ponds and plantation were without work at present as these activities have been stopped due to monsoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-releases-aid-of-rs-1000-each-for-over-9l-migrants/articleshow/77160463.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Goa||Stranded at bus shelter for 3 months, two migrants finally get work||Poinguinim: Their ordeal began over three months ago when the country went into lockdown to battle the Covid-19 pandemic, but it was only recently that their plight came to the notice of the authorities after their story went public. Palanival T Subramanyam, 52, from Tamil Nadu and Copita Lakhya, 60, from Odisha, had come to Goa over a year ago in search of a livelihood and even managed to find decent employment, but that was till the pandemic came along and all economic activity came to a standstill. Like many other migrant workers caught in the situation, Subramanyam too decided to return to his home town. “With no public transport plying I decided to walk to the Margao railway station, but there I was robbed of all my money and mobile phone,” Subramanyam said, adding that as he had no one to turn to for help he decided to walk south to the Polem border. “But there I was not allowed to cross,” he said. Hungry and thirsty, Subramanyam, left with no choice, turned back. “Fortunately for me, I was forced to stop at a bush shelter in Madditolop. I say fortunate because a kind gentleman heard me crying and came to my aid,” Subramanyam said. The good samaritan, Balkrishna Ayya, is a retired teacher, who lives behind the bus shelter. He offered the stranded, hungry Subramanyam food and did so for over a month. “I decided to stay at the bus shelter till the situation improved and began to look for work as a daily wage labourer,” Subramanyam said. He found work on and off and would earn up to Rs 400 on a good day. It was during this time that Lakhya, also stranded and desperate reached the bus shelter. “Ayya would give us at least one meal a day and he did this for 33 days,” said Subramanyam, the sole communicator among the duo. They would have continued to live like this if they had not to be attacked and assaulted by three inebriated strangers during the three-day lockdown. This brought their plight to the attention of the authorities who promised them employment. Subramanyam said that if they were assisted by way of a railway ticket they would return to their villages. “I have a son studying in Class XI and a daughter in Class IX,” he said. Canacona deputy collector Satish Prabhu and Canacona mamlatdar Vimod Dalal said they spoke to Subramanyam and Lakhya. “They could have been sent home but they do not have any IDs,” they said. Dalal said he has spoken to a contractor for some temporary employment for the duo. On Friday, they were temporarily shifted to the contractor’s camp site at Muthal near Sadolxem, Canacona.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/stranded-at-bus-shelter-for-3-months-two-migrants-finally-get-work/articleshow/77159738.cms||Albert Fernandes
July 25, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19 fear deters cops from arresting owner of 62kg ganja||Nagpur: Cops from New Kamptee police station had made a seizure of more than 62kg of marijuana worth Rs7.5 lakh from Ismailpura shortly after Wednesday midnight. Though cops arrested Shamim Ejaz Shareef, a tailor, in whose place the consignment was found, they could not arrest the alleged owner of the narcotics, Sallauddin Pathan, due to Covid-19 fear. It’s learnt that Pathan’s father had succumbed to Covid-19 around a week ago. His mother is at a quarantine centre. Pathan, who is at home, is suffering from Covid-like symptoms which deterred cops from taking him into custody. Pathan had already purchased the place from Shareef but the latter had not vacated it due to the lockdown. “We arrested Shareef because he was well aware of the narcotics consignment,” said senior inspector Santosh Bakal of New Kamptee police station who conducted the seizure operation under Zonal DCP Neelotpal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-fear-deters-cops-from-arresting-owner-of-62kg-ganja/articleshow/77158137.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 25, 2020||Mysuru||2 killed after car rams truck||CHITRADURGA: Two people were killed and three others injured, when the car in which they were travelling rammed a truck from the rear near Jai Hind hotel at Kayadigere cross on NH-48 under Chitradurga Rural police station limits on Friday morning. The deceased are Adi Sabarish alias Sayi,16, a resident of Tirupathi and Santhosh Subhash Nayakawadi,51, a resident of Pune. The three injured are Renushree,18, and Drakshayani,37, both residents of Tirupathi and Kylash, the driver from Pune. They are being treated at Chitradurga district hospital. The deceased, Adi Sabarish and injured Renushree and Drakshayani, are from the same family, and residents of Tirupathi. A car was sent to Tirupathi by their Pune-based relative to take them to Pune. The car had left Tirupathi after picking up the three family members on Thursday night, and met with the accident at 6.30am on Friday, which is said to be due to the negligence of the driver according to police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/2-killed-after-car-rams-truck/articleshow/77156570.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Smart streetlights to send SMS alert after conking off||CHENNAI: In the next two months, residents may not have to dial the corporation helpline to complain about a streetlight that has gone on the blink. Greater Chennai Corporation is installing remote monitoring system in pillar boxes to monitor streetlights from its headquarters. The system promises to fix power fluctuations on its own and alert the local engineer and the corporation control room if the light conks off. There are 2.8 lakh streetlights in the city and 7,707 pillar boxes. Around 60 streetlights are fitted to a box. Each box will get a controller that has a panel to monitor the lights. The panel has a meter that will show the power usage and has a miniature circuit breaker handle power fluctuations. A SIM card in the panel will enable it to communicate with a dashboard at the headquarters. At present, pillar boxes have timers and the lights switch on and turn off according to a preset time. However, due to frequent usage, several timers have stopped functioning and corporation staff have to manually switch on, and put off, the lights. Also, residents have to call, or use the corporation’s Namma Chennai app, to complain about defunct lights. But the remote monitoring system will let the corporation switch on lights connected to a pillar box all at once besides alerting the local engineer if there is a problem. The cost of one equipment is Rs 56,000 and the cost of the project is Rs 40 crore. “We got Rs 14crore from the Nirbhaya fund and Rs 25crore from the central grant commission. The corporation is spending the remaining amount for this project. It will be completed in another two months. The contract has been awarded to Sabari Electricals which will handle the annual maintenance,” said Kumaravel Pandian, deputy commissioner (works). Superintendent engineer Elangovan said the new system will reduce consumption of power. “All grievances related to the streetlights will be resolved quickly. We have already started fitting the systems in Adyar and Tondiarpet,” he said. Proprietor of Sabari Electricals, Radha Krishnan, said they had set up this technology in Trichy, Madurai and Coimbatore. “We will train corporation officials using a video and hold training sessions post Covid on how they can monitor the lights,” he said. Since 2013, the civic body has been setting up LED streetlights and by 2018 all lights had been changed. It pays an electricity bill of Rs 4.5cr every month for the streetlights besides spending on annual maintenance, manpower and repair work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/smart-streetlights-to-send-sms-alert-after-conking-off/articleshow/77158165.cms||Komal Gautham
July 25, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: ‘Aapda Prahari’ App to sound weather alerts||LUCKNOW: To minimise incidents of people getting killed due to lightning and other weather related disasters, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday launched an integrated early warning system to be known as Aapda Prahari App. The web based application would also help in strengthening relief management network. The CM said that many of these deaths could have been prevented had the government taken recourse to technology earlier, using available weather information to warn people against inclement weather beforehand. The integrated early warning system will issue warnings about the weather and lightning based on the Met department’s satellite predictions. This will be done through an automatic SMS alert and whatsapp messages to about 54,000 gram pradhans, 24,000 lekhpals 1.59 lakh anganwadi workers, 1.51 lakh ASHAworkers and 35 police personnel. Other than this, the information will also be relayed to more than 25 lakh farmers through about 1,100 Whatsapp groups being operated by the agriculture department. The Aapda Prahari or ‘guard against disaster’ app will be used by the relief commissioner’s office to connect directly with farmers. Using a citizens’ login, farmers and other people will be able to get immediate information about a disaster, including photographs. The online flood management work module will contain information pertaining to relief work during floods. It will identify flood checks, relief camps, disaster management control rooms, etc. All information pertaining to floods in any district will be made available on this app. A citizens’ dashboard will also be made available under the citizens’ corner on the relief commissioner office website. Using this, people will be able to get information on their nearest relief camps, relief offices and other facilities being provided by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aapda-prahari-app-to-sound-weather-alerts/articleshow/77160472.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Gurgaon||Wedding delayed, Jind man travels to West Bengal for love, tests Covid-19 positive||JIND: After months of waiting and an 11-day journey to reach West Bengal to marry his Facebook girlfriend, a 26-year-old man from Haryana’s Jind district tested positive for Covid-19 a day before they were to tie the knot. Sandeep, who is from Nandgarh village near Jind’s Julana town, is now in isolation at his girlfriend’s home in Raiganj. He was to marry her in March, but the wedlock had been delayed due to the Covid lockdown. He said he could not find a bride in Haryana because of the state’s skewed sex ratio, so he looked outside the state. Sandeep left for Delhi in a bus from Jind on July 10. He then travelled by train to Raiganj, where he reached on July 21 and approached the marriage registrar along with his girlfriend, Bharti Rani Sarkar, who sought his Covid-19 report before appearing in the office for signing documents. But as luck would have it, Sandeep tested positive on July 22. Sandeep, who has studied till Class X, said he has an elder brother and a younger one, and their father died 21 years ago. The siblings live in the same house with their mother and grandmother. “My elder brother (29) got married to a woman from Bihar two years ago, but she left him. Thereafter, due to skewed sex ratio in Haryana, it was not possible to find a girl easily for marriage. In October of 2019, I came in contact with Bharti on social media and fell in love with her. She promised to marry me in March 2020, but lockdown was imposed. When train services resumed, I decided to go over there to solemnise the marriage, but now I am still waiting to get married,” he said. Deputy civil surgeon Pale Ram Kataria said after getting the report from their Bengal counterparts, they had sent a team to Nandgarh to collect the samples of Sandeep’s family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/wedding-delayed-jind-man-travels-to-bengal-for-love-tests-ve/articleshow/77158159.cms||Vijender Kumar
July 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Rs 300 crore spent on Covid care and migrants, says Amarinder Singh||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Friday said the Rs 64 crore in the CM Relief Fund being questioned by the opposition SAD was a miniscule of the over Rs 300 crore already spent by his government in providing Covid-19 care and related expenses. Ridiculing the SAD for criticising the state government for spending only Rs 2.28 crore from the amount accumulated in the CM Relief Fund for Covid support, Amarinder said the source of financing Covid-related expenditures was totally irrelevant. The important thing was that despite total absence of financial support from the Union government, of which SAD is part, his government had not allowed the fiscal crunch to come in the way of Covid management, he said. If the Akalis were at all concerned about Covid care in the state, they should ask the Centre why they had failed to support the Punjab government in this critical time, said Amarinder. The money being contributed by concerned citizens to the CM Relief Fund was an emergency fund that the state government had set aside to meet exigent urgent needs as and when required, when there is no immediate alternate resource available to it, he added. Amarinder pointed out that given the uncertainty surrounding the pandemic, which could continue for many months and perhaps even a year or more, it was important to keep such emergency funds in readiness to meet any eventuality. However, the Akalis clearly did not believe in such emergency preparedness, as was evident from the many instances of mishandling of crisis situations during their 10-year-rule, he quipped. The Rs 64,86,10,456 balance lying in the Relief Fund was a “drop in the ocean” compared to the crore of rupees already spent by his government on infrastructure upgradation, setting up of Covid Care Centres, roping in additional medical and para-medical staff, purchase of PPE kits and other essential equipment for battling the coronavirus, Amarinder pointed out. Punjab has spent Rs 29.5 crore on enabling 5.20 lakh migrant workers to go back to their home states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/300-crore-spent-on-covid-care-and-migrants-says-amarinder/articleshow/77158164.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Amritsar||Rs 300 crore spent on Covid care and migrants, says Amarinder Singh||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Friday said the Rs 64 crore in the CM Relief Fund being questioned by the opposition SAD was a miniscule of the over Rs 300 crore already spent by his government in providing Covid-19 care and related expenses. Ridiculing the SAD for criticising the state government for spending only Rs 2.28 crore from the amount accumulated in the CM Relief Fund for Covid support, Amarinder said the source of financing Covid-related expenditures was totally irrelevant. The important thing was that despite total absence of financial support from the Union government, of which SAD is part, his government had not allowed the fiscal crunch to come in the way of Covid management, he said. If the Akalis were at all concerned about Covid care in the state, they should ask the Centre why they had failed to support the Punjab government in this critical time, said Amarinder. The money being contributed by concerned citizens to the CM Relief Fund was an emergency fund that the state government had set aside to meet exigent urgent needs as and when required, when there is no immediate alternate resource available to it, he added. Amarinder pointed out that given the uncertainty surrounding the pandemic, which could continue for many months and perhaps even a year or more, it was important to keep such emergency funds in readiness to meet any eventuality. However, the Akalis clearly did not believe in such emergency preparedness, as was evident from the many instances of mishandling of crisis situations during their 10-year-rule, he quipped. The Rs 64,86,10,456 balance lying in the Relief Fund was a “drop in the ocean” compared to the crore of rupees already spent by his government on infrastructure upgradation, setting up of Covid Care Centres, roping in additional medical and para-medical staff, purchase of PPE kits and other essential equipment for battling the coronavirus, Amarinder pointed out. Punjab has spent Rs 29.5 crore on enabling 5.20 lakh migrant workers to go back to their home states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/300-crore-spent-on-covid-care-and-migrants-says-amarinder/articleshow/77162246.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Rs 300 crore spent on Covid care and migrants, says Amarinder Singh||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Friday said the Rs 64 crore in the CM Relief Fund being questioned by the opposition SAD was a miniscule of the over Rs 300 crore already spent by his government in providing Covid-19 care and related expenses. Ridiculing the SAD for criticising the state government for spending only Rs 2.28 crore from the amount accumulated in the CM Relief Fund for Covid support, Amarinder said the source of financing Covid-related expenditures was totally irrelevant. The important thing was that despite total absence of financial support from the Union government, of which SAD is part, his government had not allowed the fiscal crunch to come in the way of Covid management, he said. If the Akalis were at all concerned about Covid care in the state, they should ask the Centre why they had failed to support the Punjab government in this critical time, said Amarinder. The money being contributed by concerned citizens to the CM Relief Fund was an emergency fund that the state government had set aside to meet exigent urgent needs as and when required, when there is no immediate alternate resource available to it, he added. Amarinder pointed out that given the uncertainty surrounding the pandemic, which could continue for many months and perhaps even a year or more, it was important to keep such emergency funds in readiness to meet any eventuality. However, the Akalis clearly did not believe in such emergency preparedness, as was evident from the many instances of mishandling of crisis situations during their 10-year-rule, he quipped. The Rs 64,86,10,456 balance lying in the Relief Fund was a “drop in the ocean” compared to the crore of rupees already spent by his government on infrastructure upgradation, setting up of Covid Care Centres, roping in additional medical and para-medical staff, purchase of PPE kits and other essential equipment for battling the coronavirus, Amarinder pointed out. Punjab has spent Rs 29.5 crore on enabling 5.20 lakh migrant workers to go back to their home states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/300-crore-spent-on-covid-care-and-migrants-says-amarinder/articleshow/77162245.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Bikers risk themselves as they squeeze through pedestrian pass||CHENNAI: A narrow gap being used as a U-turn on the Kodambakkam High Road near Kakkan Colony has put motorists at risk. The gap was made to help pedestrians cross the road, but is now being used by vehicles to take a U-turn. Traffic policemen in the area said they have witnessed at least 10 accidents on the stretch after people took a U-turn. “If you notice, this road itself is narrow and there are stores on both sides. People park their vehicles further choking it. Now, when a big car or truck tries to take a turn here the entire traffic movement gets disrupted for a long time,” the policeman said. The officer said two days ago, a mini-van and a car collided when the van driver suddenly took a U-turn and hit the car heading towards Valluvarkottam. To prevent accidents, police barricaded the gap and warned motorists against using it. “But the next day the barricades were moved to the side of the road and people continued to take U-turns,” the officer said. Pedestrians complained that they were unable to cross the road. “The next pedestrian crossing is around a kilometer away. It is impossible and also scary to walk through this path,” said P Vanaja, a resident of Kakkan Colony. Local officials of Kodambakkam zone said they have taken note of the issue and have requested higher authorities to provide a permanent solution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bikers-risk-themselves-as-they-squeeze-through-pedestrian-pass/articleshow/77158209.cms||Aditi R
July 25, 2020||Delhi||Excise department raids cafe in Delhi's Dwarka for serving alcohol||NEW DELHI: The excise department on Thursday raided a party thrown at a café in Dwarka where alcohol and hookah was allegedly being served in violation of the Unlock 2.0 guidelines. A senior department official said that a group of 35-40 youngsters were found at the party, who were drinking alcohol and having hookah. “A case under Excise Act, Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act, Epidemic Act and Disaster Management Act has been registered and the manager of the restaurant in Dwarka Sector 7 has been apprehended,” the official said. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia also tweeted regarding the raid. “Excise dept raided a cafe house in Sec 7 Dwarka where illegal liquor was being served. FIR under IPC, Epidemic act and Disaster management act has been registered. Manager of the cafe has been arrested,” he wrote on the micro blogging site. This is the third such case that has come to light during Unlock 2.0. Earlier, cases were registered against the restaurants in East Patel Nagar and Paschim Vihar for serving liquor. “Serving of liquor is prohibited in restaurants, clubs, hotels and similar establishments in the Unlock 2.0. The excise department received information regarding a few establishments serving alcohol. Acting upon a tip, the team of the southwest district conducted a raid on the restaurant situated at Sector 7, Dwarka,”said the official statement. The department has initiated a drive against such restaurants where liquor is being served in violation of guidelines. “This is the third case registered in the last 10 days. In view of the repeated violations by restaurants, the intensity of the drive will increase,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/excise-dept-raids-cafe-in-dwarka-for-serving-alcohol/articleshow/77158232.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Sick from districts swarm Hyderabad for Covid care||HYDERABAD: Even as the government announced that it will ramp up testing and make all efforts to strengthen primary health centres, many from districts are still coming to the city to get treated for coronavirus. Sidhartha Namburi, a resident of Warangal, brought his 53-year-old father to a private hospital in Somajiguda this week. He alleges that MGM Hospital back home refused to carry out a test. “As dad started feeling breathless and could barely walk, we decided to get him to the city immediately. A test showed he was Covid-19 positive,” said Namburi. A resident of Kothawada said: “Even though some private hospitals in Warangal have been given permission to admit Covid patients, many are not accepting serious cases as they do not have the expertise and do not want to harm their image.” Citing a similar experience, P Santosh Kumar, from Namdevwada in Nizamabad, brought his mother to the city two days ago. “On the July 17, my mother started struggling to breathe. We took her to a facility in Khaleelwadi where a CT scan showed she had pneumonia. We rushed her to the city where she tested positive and was admitted to Gandhi Hospital.” From the same district, Ch Sudheer said his mother was admitted on Monday at Nizamabad Government Hospital. “Till now we have not got confirmation whether she is Covid positive or not,” he says. Unwilling to wait, many prefer bringing their loved ones to the city, travelling from as far as Mancherial. “As soon as my father tested positive, we drove him to Hyderabad. We did not want to take a chance considering his age,” said a resident of Bellampalli, on condition of anonymity, adding his father has been admitted at a private hospital here. Just a day before, health minister Eatala Rajender urged people to visit nearest PHC in case they developed symptoms. He said that the PHCs have been well-equipped to carry out Covid-19 tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sick-from-dists-swarm-hyd-for-covid-care/articleshow/77158220.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Nagpur||Body of 10-year-old boy, who was swept away in nullah, still untraceable; search called off||Nagpur: The tragedy-struck Meshram family of Gulmohar Nagar in the outskirts of the city is waiting endlessly for some information about their son 10-year-old Nehal who was swept away in a gushing nullah six days ago. The fire department has also called off the search searching for the body in eight kilometre stretch. On July 19, Nehal had gone to Laxmi Nagar crossing over the nullah that had a cement pole laid across. While returning, he slipped and fell into the strong current of the storm water in the nullah. Nehal is missing since. The nullah later joined Pili Nadi and then Nag River before flowing into Kanhan. Apart from the fire department, Kalamna police too tried their best to trace the body by engaging the local divers but in vain. The family and friends too made some futile attempts. Nehal’s father Shekhar, a driver, said he was still living in hope to be able to give his younger son a burial he deserved. “Officers and politicians came for the first couple of days. Later, it’s only us who are fighting the battle. We keep walking along the banks of the nullah in the anticipation to trace him but return empty handed,” he said. Chief fire officer Rajendra Uchake said his team had made utmost efforts but tracing a body in the muddy water of the monsoon was not easy. “The body may have got stuck in underwater vegetation,” he said. Senior inspector V Chauhan of Kalamna police station said the neighbouring police stations in the rural and other districts have been alerted about the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/body-of-10-year-old-boy-who-was-swept-away-in-nullah-still-untraceable-search-called-off/articleshow/77158201.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 25, 2020||Goa||Tillari canal takes toll on animals||Keri: While the canal, distributary channels and aquaducts supply much-needed water from the Tillari to farmers in Pernem, they are quickly becoming death traps for animals. On Wednesday, four bisons from the forested areas of Hasapur fell into the main canal. Pernem range forest officer Geerish Bailudkar told TOI, “When we got information, our staff immediately rushed to the spot and conducted rescue operations with the help of villagers. Two of the bisons successfully came out, while the third one came out around midnight and ventured back into the forests.” The fourth bison had fallen through the aquaduct into a well, constructed by the water resources department (WRD) for collecting water from the aquaduct. As the well is very deep the forest staff could not trace the dead bison. Deputy conservator of forests, North Goa, Anisha Kalkoor, said, “I had already discussed with WRD officials to undertake mitigation measures to avoid the death of wild animals. I have also instructed our staff to be vigilant to curtail further incidents.” WRD’s chief engineer Shrikant Patil told TOI, “I am aware earlier too the canal and aquaduct have proved to be detrimental for wild animals. We will take necessary precautionary measures by consulting the forest department to restrain wild animals falling into canals and entering the aquaduct.” Vitthal Shelke, a wildlifer from Sattari, who visited the area said, “On February 5, a bison had fallen into the canal at Hankhane and the four bisons falling into the canal is the second incident. Earlier, wild boars, sambars had fallen into the same canal. Barricades erected by WRD have failed to protect wild animals as they have been put up without conducting a proper study of wildlife crossings and their behaviour.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tillari-canal-takes-toll-on-animals/articleshow/77159739.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
July 25, 2020||Mysuru||MLA blames public movement for Covid spread||MYSURU: Krishnaraja MLA SA Ramadas stated that unnecessary public movement resulted in a huge spike in the number of Covid 19 cases in the district. “Need of the hour is staying safe inside the house,” he said. Speaking to reporters after inaugurating the Covid 19 testing center at Makkala Kuta school in Krishnamurthypuram, he stated that every zone in the city has been allocated one ambulance and a vehicle. Revenue inspectors are appointed as the nodal officers to supply essential items for the houses in the containment zones and those areas sealed down. “People need to be more responsible,” he said. On the Congress allegations on corruption in Covid 19 procurements, he stated that we all must work together to defeat Covid 19. “This is not the time of exchange allegations,” he said. He also stated that industrial unit heads are asked to take precautionary measures to stop the spread of the Covid 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mla-blames-public-movement-for-covid-spread/articleshow/77156671.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Out due to Covid-19, accused can’t get default bail: HC||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has held that once an accused has been granted interim bail on instructions from Supreme Court (SC) to prevent spread of infection in jails due to Covid-19 pandemic,the same accused is not entitled to default bail under section 167 (2) of CrPC subsequently. “In the instant case after being arrested on March 19, the petitioner on account of outbreak of Covid-19 was granted interim bail on March 3, which stood extended from time to time and he is still on bail, now required to surrender in jail on September 4. The petitioner remaining behind bars for a period of less than two weeks till date, cannot cry foul and ask for bail in terms of section 167(2) CrPc. The petitioner just wants to have dual benefit enjoying interim bail, at the same time asking for concession of regular bail. He is certainly not entitled to such concession,” the HC has held. Justice H S Madaan passed these orders while dismissing a petition filed by Subhash Chander, a resident of Karnal. He was booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act at Nissing police station in Karnal district on March 18 and arrested on March 19. However, on account of Covid-19 pandemic, the SC issued guidelines directing the states to release some prisoners to decongest the jails. The petitioner also benefited from the policy and was released on interim bail for a period of 45 days. Such period was further extended in view of the pandemic and petitioner was required to surrender at district jail on September 4. The petitioner, however, filed a petition before a Karnal court submitting that the investigating agency had to file a final police report within 60 days of his arrest, but as it did not, he was entitled to be released on bail. His bail plea was dismissed by the lower court. “It appears that same yardstick also applied in favour of investigating agency which was also prevented from expediting the investigation process due to the outbreak of Covid-19. Although the prescribed period of 60 days to file a final report ended on May 18 and police filed such a final report on June 25, but the investigating agency had still 47 days more to conclude investigation and final report,” observed the lower court judge, while dismissing his bail plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/out-due-to-covid-accused-cant-get-default-bail-hc/articleshow/77158179.cms||Ajay Sura
July 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Rs 1 crore aid to kin of corona warrior||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal provided financial assistance of Rs 1 crore to the family of civil defence volunteer Arun Kumar Singh, who lost his life after contracting the virus while on Covid duty. “Arun ji did an excellent job during the lockdown. He worked in almost all departments, whether in hospitals, distributing food, or anything else,” Kejriwal said. “Our civil defence volunteers have worked hard day and night and Arun ji was one such volunteer who, in the course of his duty, contracted the virus and lost his life. Delhiites salute the martyrdom and sacrifice of Arun Kumar ji,” he added. The chief minister met with Singh’s wife and children on Saturday evening at their house in Uttam Nagar. “His daughter is in Class XII and his son in Class IX. Their education should not stop at any cost,” he said, adding that Delhi government would do whatever it can to support their education. AAP government provides Rs 1 crore as financial assistance to the family of ‘corona warriors’ if they die due to the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rs-1-crore-aid-to-kin-of-corona-warrior/articleshow/77176067.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali: I am a victim of corruption, Gurkirpal Singh Chawla wrote in suicide note||MOHALI: The suicide note of Gurkirpal Singh Chawla, once known as the petrol baron of Mohali, suggests victimisation at the hands of smugglers. “I am a victim of corruption, diesel smugglers and officials of a petrol company to have connived with petroleum dealers to grab my property and drive me to bankruptcy. Not with standing their atrocities, I am committing suicide,” the note reads. Chawla blamed six persons for pushing him to take the extreme step. Panchkula police has booked all six of them on charges of abetment to suicide. Once known as the wealthiest man in the petrol business with a property worth Rs 1,000 crore, Chawla’s fortunes crashed after 2017. He had to sell his mansion and live in rented accommodation in Mohali. He committed suicide in a room of hotel Red Bishop in Panchkula late on Wednesday evening. Police recovered a 9-page suicide note from the room. His last rites have been conducted. MPS Chawla, his brother said, “He was very depressed with the UT administration conniving with the petrol mafia by reducing VAT and Punjab excise for failing to curb cross-border diesel smuggling. Within a few years, he went from riches to rags which pushed him to end his life. All those responsible must be brought to book.” The victim’s son Hamrit Singh said, “My father suffered huge losses due to the major rate difference from Chandigarh after UT reduced VAT on fuel. The pressure of loss dragged him to end his life.” Chawla is survived by his wife, Jagjit Kaur, elder daughter Gunit Kaur, son Hamrit Singh and younger daughter Roopeet Kaur. In his suicide note, which has been encrypted in FIR, Chawla alleged, ‘I am committing suicide as I have been cheated and harassed by officials of petroleum company and their accomplices Shalabh Raj Gupta, Rajeev Bansal, Vijay Kumar Kamra, Rakesh Kamra, Ishan Kamara and Nikhil Sood who have connived with each other to grab my property and Shalabh forcefully and fraudulently transferred the dealership of my petrol pump making me a pauper. They have also grabbed my Daun based property and also paid monthly money to excise officials for not letting increase VAT on petrol in Chandigarh.” Last September, he wrote to the Punjab governor seeking permission to commit suicide. He alleged that he had petrol pumps at Phase VII, Daun village and Fatehgarh Sahib which lost sales due to diesel smuggling facilitated by petroleum company officials and excise officials. He said he incurred debt after that.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/i-am-a-victim-of-corruption-chawla-wrote-in-suicide-note/articleshow/77158227.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
July 25, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: PM’s job scheme creates 3 crore man-days in first month||LUCKNOW: Less than a month after it was rolled out in Uttar Pradesh by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the ambitious Gareeb Kalyan Rozgar Scheme (GKRS) has generated jobs of 3 crore man-days under various categories, particularly among migrants who returned home during the lockdown. Rural development department records till July 23 show that against a target of 10.2crore man-days till October 22, the state government managed to generate jobs of 2.9 crore man-days in the first month, achieving 29% target in 31 districts of UP. Nationally, the scheme is being implemented in 116 districts in six states. The state government chose those districts which received more than 25,000 migrants following the pandemic-induced lockdown. GKRS also entails providing jobs under Mahatma Gandhi National Employee Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS). UP’s additional commissioner, MNREGS, Yogesh Kumar said implementation of the scheme was on track and would meet its target by the October 22 deadline. Against a projected spend of Rs 2,800 crore, the state government spent Rs 1,045 crore in 11 sectors, records show. The biggest headway was made in four sectors — digging wells, vermicomposting, horticulture and solid and liquid water management (SLWM). In the first category, the state government achieved 10 times the target by digging 152 wells. In horticulture, the rural development department met more than 11 times the target, while in solid and liquid water management, the government wrapped it up by meeting four times the target. In vermicomposting, the state government achieved a target of 144%. However, progress is relatively slow in construction of cattle sheds. Against a target of 22,001, the rural development department could complete only 6800 sheds. Same was the case with construction of ponds in farms, where against a target of 4,008, the state government could dig 691 farms ponds only, which was 17% of the target. The progress was reasonable in construction of goat sheds, where 1,889 sheds were constructed against a target of 5,600. Similarly, the rural development department managed to set up 624 anganwadi centres against a target of 1436.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pms-job-scheme-creates-3cr-man-days-in-1st-month/articleshow/77160485.cms||Pankaj Shah
July 25, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Religious educational institutions unable to go online, teach||CHENNAI: The Covid-19 pandemic has hit religious educational institutions, such as veda patasalas and madrasas in the city, hard. While online classes are being held in full swing in mainstream private schools, many religious institutions are finding it difficult to connect with their students and take classes. Abdul Majeed, principal of Madrasa Kashiful Huda, said they have not held any classes since the past four months. “We did try holding classes over WhatsApp and phone, but couldn’t since many students don’t have these facilities,” he said. “Unlike other schools, here we teach them the Quran, religious chants, which they need to learn properly and cannot be taught over phone or computer,” he said. Nurul Qureshi, an Arabic scholar and teacher at a madrasa, said every year many of these institutions have at least 20 new admissions. However, almost have stopped admitting new students. “Everything has come to a halt and it is all very uncertain. Many educators are struggling to makes ends meet. But we have to wait and watch how the situation changes only then we can decide further actions,” he said. Veda patasalas are facing similar challenges. Many have stopped admitting new students and are not taking classes. A few, however, have started to hold online classes, at least once in two weeks over Whatsapp or Zoom. “We are currently only revising the old lessons and not taking anything new,” said S Lakshminarayanan, managing trustee of Tapas Trust, which has around 15 veda patasalas in and around Tamil Nadu. “The Vedic chants need to be recited correctly. We are unable to hear them properly and spot any mistakes though online classes,” he said. Balaji Ranganathan, a Vedic scholar and principal of Sandeepani Gurukulam, said, “By this time of the year we would have completed at least 200 Vedic shlokas, but we have hardly touched 100,” he said. Subburaman*, a Vedic scholar and principal of a patasala in Tambaram said that they will be shutting down soon, due to the increasing challenges. “All our students used to reside on campus and learn, now they have all gone home. Vedas cannot be taught online. Unless the state intervenes and shows us a way we cannot function,” he said. (*name changed on request)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/religious-edu-institutions-unable-to-go-online-teach/articleshow/77158225.cms||Aditi R
July 25, 2020||Bareilly||Short circuit in Covid-19 ward in Bareilly||Bareilly: After patients saw sparks coming out from a fan due to a short circuit in the Covid-19 level three hospital, they allegedly doused it using a fire extinguisher. The video of a smoke-filled Covid-19 ward went viral after a patient shared it on social media. The patient said, “We saw sparks coming out from a fan and I immediately used a fire extinguisher to douse it. The entire ward was filled with smoke.” On the other hand, an official at the Covid-19 level three hospital, where the incident took place, said, “Following a short circuit, there was a spark in the fan and health employees doused it. The patients were temporarily shifted to another ward and an electrician was called to check the equipment and to repair it. No damage was done.” Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Vineet Shukla said, “It was a small incident of short circuit which was immediately resolved.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/short-circuit-in-covid-19-ward-in-bareilly/articleshow/77156676.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad civic body identifies 8 circles vulnerable to local transmission of Covid-19||HYDERABAD: Authorities at GHMC said they have identified eight new high risk zones in the city, witnessing local transmission of Covid-19. These zones include Yousufguda circle, Karwan, Amberpet, Mehdipatnam, among others, being monitored by special officers as they have seen a spike in the number of positive cases this month, indicating that local transmission is now a reality. Officials, however, maintain that the spike is because of increased testing. “Spike in numbers is because of the increased testing. GHMC is able to contain the virus spread in high risk areas and city too,” said a GHMC official. The data also reveals lack of co-ordination between private hospitals and government and how it’s dented the Covid-19 activities in these areas. Private hospitals did not share Covid-19 test reports with GHMC and health department immediately and, therefore, activities like conducting fever survey and containing the houses were delayed.“It has been two days since we tested positive but not a single official has contacted us,” said a resident from Khairatabad circle, who tested positive in a private hospital. Airing his anguish, another resident from Yousufguda circle, said, “Two people from my family tested positive on July 22. We had got ourselves tested in a private hospital but we did not receive any isolation kits. Only after multiple attempts we were able to reach officials through the helpline numbers given by health department.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/civic-body-identifies-8-circles-vulnerable-to-local-transmission/articleshow/77158230.cms||Nabinder Bommala
July 25, 2020||Delhi||Trial by fire: First man from Delhi gets the shot||NEW DELHI: A 30-year-old man became the first from Delhi to receive Covaxin — India’s indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine — at AIIMS on Friday afternoon. Dr Sanjay Rai, principal investigator of the vaccine trial project, told TOI that the volunteer was administered 0.5ml of the intramuscular injection. “We observed him for two hours. There was no immediate side-effect,” he said. The man was allowed to go home and would be examined again after two days, the doctor added. Covaxin has been developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech in collaboration with Indian Council of Medical Research and National Institute of Virology, Pune. Apart from AIIMS Delhi, 11 other hospitals, including AIIMS Patna and PGI Rohtak, had been conducting the trials. In the first phase, 375 people would be vaccinated. Of these, 100 volunteers, the maximum, would be administered vaccine at AIIMS Delhi, for which, around 20 had already undergone health screening. “We had called two volunteers for screening on Friday but only one was vaccinated. The other volunteer will be injected on Saturday,” said Dr Rai, professor and head of the community medicine department, AIIMS. All the volunteers who receive the vaccine would be monitored for a few hours at the hospital to rule out any immediate side-effects. Thereafter, they could go home “We are asking them to note down any symptoms or changes in vital parameters for a detail evaluation. The volunteers are going to be in constant touch with us, and they will be asked to visit the hospital regularly for physical examination,” the doctors said. The trial was being done on healthy people between 18 and 55 years with no comorbidities, while pregnant women were excluded. Delhi-based Dr Dangs Lab, which has been selected as the central lab for the human clinical trials of Covaxin, had been screening the volunteers for pre-existing illnesses and their immune profile. The first phase of the trial, which is expected to end in three months, aimed to assess the safety of the vaccine. Its efficacy would be studied in the second phase. Watch Covid-19 vaccine trail begins, Delhi man gets first shot||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/trial-by-fire-first-man-from-delhi-gets-the-shot/articleshow/77158262.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
July 25, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: On camera, dramatic rescue of schoolgirls caught in flash flood||BHOPAL: Two schoolgirls, who got trapped on a rock in a flash flood in Pench river while taking selfies, were pulled to safety in dramatic rescue by police on Friday morning. A group of six girls from Junnardeo town, about 50km fromChhindwara district headquarters, had gone out on a riverside picnic near Belkhedi village. The riverbed was almost dry then but for pools of water. Two of them, Class XI students Megha Jawre and Vandana Tripathi, walked into the middle of the riverbed to sit on a rock and take selfies. Suddenly, a flash flood surged into the area and within seconds the river was a raging torrent. The girls were cut off. Their friends could only watch in horror as the rock began vanishing under floodwaters. Some villagers called police, who responded immediately. Megha and Vandana held on each other as the flood kept battering them. By the time a police team, led by DSP Ajay Waghmare, arrived, the rock had submerged. Girls rescued after an hour-long opLocals joined them in the rescue. Videos show policemen struggling to hold their footing in the torrent. Roped to each other and using sticks to gauge depth and maintain balance, 12 of them inch towards the girls. Two of the cops almost get swept away but the rope and their colleagues keep them in line. Police tried to take them off the rock one by one, but when they pulled one girl, the other held on to her in desperation. It took an hour to bring Megha and Vandana to shore. Watch Selfie trouble: Two girls caught in swelling waters of Pench river||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/schoolgirls-on-selfie-trip-trapped-in-flash-flood-rescue-caught-in-video/articleshow/77159729.cms||P Naveen
July 25, 2020||Goa||Zenito’s kin file human rights plaint, police get notice||Panaji: The Goa Human Rights Commission has issued notices to SP (North) and police inspectors of Old Goa and Calangute police stations over the alleged violation of human rights by them while interrogating two aunts of Zenito Cardozo on Thursday. The case will come up for hearing on Monday. The two aunts, one of whom is a senior citizen, used to live with him until recently and has now been admitted to Manipal Hospital. She has filed a complaint with the commission stating that police threatened to give them electric shocks and slap false criminal cases against them if they didn’t reveal Cardozo’s whereabouts. Cardozo’s other aunty stated police forced her and her husband to ask Cardozo’s sister about him on a WhatsApp call on loudspeaker and tell her to inform him to surrender before July 28 “failing which they will not leave the whole family”. Both said they did not get any notices to be present at the Taleigao outpost and were kept till 9pm despite being women and senior citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/zenitos-kin-file-human-rights-plaint-police-get-notice/articleshow/77159740.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Goa||AAP hits out at govt over poll decision||Saligao: Reacting to the government’s announcement that municipal polls will be held on October 18, AAP state convener Elvis Gomes said the state has once again sought to keep its own interests above that of the health of the people during the ongoing pandemic. Addressing reporters in Mapusa, Gomes termed the announcement as “applying salt to the wounds of the common man who is already reeling under distress due to the Covid-19 pandemic that had dried up incomes”. Gomes charged the state election commissioner (SEC) of being a “mere postman of the BJP which had given him a post-retirement job”. “After postponing zilla panchayat (ZP) polls, the SEC now comes out of nowhere and states that October 18 is the suggested date for the municipal elections. Is it the job of the SEC to merely make announcements?” said Gomes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aap-hits-out-at-govt-over-poll-decision/articleshow/77159745.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Delhi||HC: Why can’t Centre, Delhi govt resolve row over lawyers?||NEW DELHI: An irked Delhi high court on Friday adjourned till August 17 a plea relating to a northeast Delhi riots case, after a fresh application was filed by yet another lawyer claiming to represent Delhi Police. “Why don’t both governments sit together and resolve the issue rather than unnecessarily waste the time of courts?” Justice Suresh Kait observed while hearing a plea challenging the bail granted to the owner of a private school. During the hearing, where till now the tussle was between the central and Delhi government’s standing counsels over who will represent police, the court was surprised when a third lawyer, special public prosecutor (SPP) Amit Prasad, turned up and said the President of India had cleared the appointment of 11 SPPs in relation to 752 northeast Delhi riots cases and he would represent the state before the trial court and in appeal. “Earlier it was between Centre and State, now there are two lawyers for Centre,” the court remarked, noting that police had failed to file written arguments. Central government standing counsel Amit Mahajan claimed the lieutenant governor had sent a proposal to the Delhi council of ministers on a set of lawyers who could represent the prosecution and soon there should be no confusion. Earlier, when Mahajan filed a plea on behalf of police challenging a trial court’s June 20 order granting bail to school owner Faisal Farooq, Delhi government standing counsel Rahul Mehra opposed it saying the Centre had no power to file it. Prasad, in the fresh application, sought modification of the high court’s July 2 order in which it had directed additional solicitor general Aman Lekhi, representing the state, and Mehra to file written arguments. The police have also sought to place additional facts in its plea, claiming a life-threatening call was made to the complainant’s son from an unknown number and it was allegedly made on behalf of the accused. On July 22, the high court dismissed a petition by Prasad on behalf of Delhi Police seeking to cancel Farooq’s bail. A similar petition is already before it, the court had said. Farooq, owner of Rajdhani School in Shiv Vihar, is among the 18 arrested for alleged involvement in burning and damaging property of the adjacent DRP Convent School.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-why-cant-centre-delhi-govt-resolve-row-over-lawyers/articleshow/77158371.cms||Abhinav Garg
July 25, 2020||Mysuru||Patient escapes from Covid-19 hospital in Mysuru||MYSURU: A 55-year-old infected patient managed to give the guards and personnel at the Mysuru district Covid-19 hospital the slip, and fled the institution on Friday. Deputy commissioner of police AN Prakash Gowda confirmed to TOI that a patient had gone missing from the hospital. The patient reportedly escaped from the facility around noon, said Gowda. “Since his address has not been clearly recorded, we have mounted a search for him,” he added. The authorities are understandably concerned, particularly since, if the patient roams around unchecked, it could lead to a spike in the number of infections in the district. The fear was brought home to the district administration and the health department on a day when Mysuru registered its highest single-day spike of 281 cases. Consequently, the Covid-19 tally in the district has now raced to 2,450, with 99 people having succumbed to the pandemic in Mysuru. Deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said that, of the 281 people confirmed infected on Friday, 50 were from Narasimharaja segment in Mysuru city. “We tested 162 people in the constituency using rapid antigen kits,” he said. Meanwhile, six more fatalities were reported in Mysuru district, of whom one was a 26-year-old woman, who had a history of respiratory infection, while two succumbed after having been in the hospital for more than ten days. The two other people died within 24 hours after they were hospitalised. Restrictions lifted On the other hand, the district administration on Friday lifted the restrictions imposed in localities within the purview of four police stations in northeast of Mysuru city: Mandi, Lashkar, Narasimharaja and Udayagiri. The restrictions had been put in place in order to render the testing process easier. Meanwhile, the Mandi police station in the heart of Mysuru city was sealed after five cops at the station tested positive for the novel coronavirus, said DCP Gowda. “We have opened a counter outside a station to facilitate filing of complaints,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/patient-escapes-from-covid-19-hospital-in-mysuru/articleshow/77157041.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Goa||St Cruz shootout: Court grants bail to one accused||PANAJI: The additional district judge Panaji has granted conditional bail to Samarth Shivdas Shirodkar accused in the Santa Cruz shootout that took place on June 20. The sessions court found that the only role played by Shirodkar was accepting the two live rounds (bullets) and four empty cases of the fired rounds from another accused Marcelino Dias. “There is no material which will indicate that the applicant (Shirodkar) was a party to the conspiracy which was hatched to kill the complainant (Imran Bepari) or any other person,” additional sessions judge Sherin Paul said. “The case papers do not indicate that the accused Marcelino Dias had informed the applicant (Shirodkar) about the present crime having been committed. The case papers also indicate that the said bullets and empty cases have been recovered. Considering the role played by the applicant (Shirodkar) and the recovery, I am of the opinion that the applicant is entitled to be released on bail,” the order stated. Shirodkar was arrested on June 23 in connection with the murder of Sonu Yadav where a gang trespassed into the house of Bepari and fired gunshots at him with the intention to kill him and damaged vehicles. The investigating officer objected to bail being granted on the grounds that the crime is serious in nature and there being a threat to the life of the complainant. The IO stated that there are chances Shirodkar may threaten witnesses. The court ordered Shirodkar to be released on bail if not required in any other case, on executing personal bond of Rs 1 lakh. Shirodkar was arrested on June 23 in connection with the murder of Sonu Yadav where a gang trespassed into the house of Bepari and fired gunshots at him .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/st-cruz-shootout-court-grants-bail-to-one-accused/articleshow/77159743.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Bareilly||65-year-old doctor succumbs toCovid-19 at Moradabad hospital||Rampur: A 65-year-old doctor died due to Covid-19 on Thursday night. The deceased doctor has been identified as Shahbuddin who was undergoing treatment at a hospital in Moradabad. Rampur chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Subodh Sharma told TOI, "Dr Shahbuddin may have got infected inside his clinic. His wife and brother, who is a chemist, were tested positive. They have been quarantined and undergoing treatment." The CMO added, "At least 15 people have died due to Covid-19 in the district, so far. Also, 147 people have tested positive." Shahbuddin's body was laid to rest by health department workers and administrative officials at a graveyard in Mohalla Kunda on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/65-year-old-doctor-succumbs-tocovid-19-at-moradabad-hospital/articleshow/77156683.cms||Nazar Abbas
July 25, 2020||Goa||Cong workers halted at Valpoi govt office||Valpoi: A strong posse of Valpoi police stopped a Congress delegation from entering the office of directorate of women and child development (DW&CD) at Valpoi on Friday to discuss the issue of Lata Gaonkar, a person with disabilities, who has been transferred from Sattari to Quepem. The delegation led by state president of mahila Congress Pratima Coutinho and the Congress’ Valpoi block wanted to discuss the issue with child development project officer Lalita Prabhu. Sattari mamlatdar Eshant Sawant and Valpoi PI Sagar Ekoskar intervened and pacified the protesters, and the delegation was allowed to meet the child development project officer. However, Prabhu said that the transfer order and the showcause notice have both been issued to Gaonkar from the Panaji head office and she has nothing to do with it. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-workers-halted-at-valpoi-govt-office/articleshow/77159750.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Mysuru||97% construction workers yet to receive one-time relief of Rs 5,000 promised by state govt||Mysuru: Hit hard by the near six-week lockdown during which construction ground to a halt across Karnataka, the 15.8 lakh labourers employed in the sector were promised financial assistance of Rs 5,000, which was to be paid out in a one-time settlement by the Karnataka government. Unfortunately, most of the workers are yet to receive the money that was promised them. Sources in the labour department confirmed to TOI that only around 45,000 workers – less than 3% of the construction workforce in the state – had received the compensation. Interestingly, nearly 70,000 construction workers have registered for the monetary relief in Mysuru alone. Officials in the labour department have, through the direct benefit transfer, credited the money to the workers’ accounts after the records that the latter have submitted have been whetted and verified. An official in the department said that most labourers who had sought compensation had not received the money since they had not linked their bank accounts with their Aadhaar numbers. “Consequently, most of the beneficiaries’ bank accounts have turned dormant,” he added. Assistant director of labour department AC Thammanna, however, told TOI that construction workers who were yet to receive the compensation could seek the monetary relief again by submitting the necessary documents to the offices of the department in their respective districts. “The construction workers who were affected owing to lack of employment during the lockdown do not have the blanket of social security measures, and the government was keen to ease their plight,” Thammanna said. In addition to the government’s outreach programmes, the Karnataka Building and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare Board rolled out a wide array of initiatives including old-age pension, disability compensation, maternity benefits, funds for children’s education and cover for healthcare expenses for in-patients. “But most workers have failed to utilise these benefits,” Thammanna rued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/97-construction-workers-yet-to-receive-one-time-relief-of-rs-5000-promised-by-state-govt/articleshow/77153086.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: In just one month, coronavirus spreads to tier II towns||HYDERABAD: In a span of just one month, Covid-19 has spread its tentacles to districts rapidly. A month ago — on June 22 — the coronavirus positive cases were mostly confined to Hyderabad and surroundings. By July 22, the Covid graph has changed its course as a significant number of casesare now reported from district headquarters and tier-II and tier-III towns in Telangana. Migration of employees and labourers from Hyderabad to villages and towns is said to be one of the key reasons behind the sudden spike. As per the medical bulletin on June 22, out of the total 876 positive cases, 713 were reported from GHMC area and 107 from surrounding Rangareddy and 16 from Medchal districts. Sangareddy had just 12 cases. All other districts mostly reported one or two cases. The medical bulletin on July 22 gave a different picture. Out of 1,554 positive cases, 842 were reported from GHMC, 132 from Rangareddy, 96 from Medchal and 24 from Sangareddy. Districts like Khammam, Kamareddy, Warangal urban, Warangal rural, Karimnagar, Peddapalli, Medak, Nalgonda, Nizamabad, Wanaparthy and Suryapet reported 73 to 22 cases. An official of health department said Covid-19 spread was mainly confined to areas in and around Hyderabad in June. “A month after, Covid-19 has spread to districts. Now, Hyderabad accounts for just over 50% cases out of the total cases reported.” “In the next one or two months, the spread is likely to be rampant in taluka and mandal headquarters.  It is set to penetrate into villages also,” an official said. Dr E Gowtham Reddy, owner of a private hospital, said: “It is going to be a big challenge for the medical fraternity. Movement of migrant labourers, IT employees to villages and towns acted as a carrier for virus, which would now spread to the rural hinterland.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/in-just-onemonth-virusspreads-totier-ii-towns/articleshow/77158242.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
July 25, 2020||Mysuru||All Covid-19 victims in Kodagu over 60 years old||MADIKERI: The Covid-19 fatalities reported in Kodagu district were all above 60 years of age. However, a majority of recovered patients are middle-aged indicating that the virus is affecting senior citizens more in the Malnad belt. As many as 272 active patients in the district, including 163 men and 109 women are middle-aged. Active cases among senior citizens are numbered 30 — 14 men and 16 women. Above 60 years active positive cases numbered 30 including male 14 and female16. As of now 21 Ten years below children patients have active cases including 13 boys and 8 girls. Of the 21 active cases of children below 10 years, 13 are boys and 8, girls. As on Friday, 323 active cases are undergoing treatment in Kodagu as per the health bulletin. As many as 236 patients have recovered till Friday, it added. Ambulance for Karike After Kodagu- Kerala border was sealed down by both the states, Karike village residents finding it difficult to commute to Madikeri for medical emergencies. However, in a prompt move, the Karnataka government on Friday has approved an ambulance to ferry the patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/all-covid-19-victims-in-kodagu-over-60-years-old/articleshow/77156957.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Mangaluru||Cattle smuggling in run up to Bakrid keeps cops on their toes||MANGALURU: Incidents of cattle trafficking go up during the time of Bakrid, however, this time the police are facing a tough situation as they are also facing a pandemic, and there are a lot of SOPs that have to be followed before making arrests. A few days ago, several personnel from the Bajpe police station tested positive for the novel coronavirus, after they arrested cattle smugglers. Police are doing their best to tackle cattle smuggling, despite the pandemic, and many police personnel have got infected. Many cattle smuggling cases have been detected since a month, and several heads of cattle rescued and sent to the gaushala, said a senior police officer. Cattle smuggling is not only happening locally, but cattle are also being transported from other districts such as Hassan and Chikkamagaluru to Dakshina Kannada. “We try our best to prevent cattle smuggling and arrest the miscreants,” added the officer. Another police officer mentioned that cattle thefts are on the rise, but there are several cases of cattle being transported legally. “There are several milk farmers who transport cattle for dairy purposes. We sometimes detain them and seize the cattle, but let them free once they produce the right documents and give valid reasons. Cases are booked if illegal transportation of cattle is taking place.” Along with the rise in cattle thefts, cases of vigilantism are also increasing, leading to communal tension. “It will be difficult to handle the law and order situation at this time if it is disturbed, because of the pandemic. Therefore police have held talks with various stakeholders, to avoid any clashes due to the illegal transportation of cattle in the district. Police have strictly told Bajrang Dal and other forums to not take the law into their hands, but inform the police in case they come across any cases of cattle smuggling. Those habitually accused of cattle smuggling are on the police radar,” said a police officer. Cattle are smuggled into the district through the Charmadi and Sullia border areas. Superintendent of police B M Laxmi Prasad said that the police are keeping a vigil on such activities. Many accused have already been arrested and cattle rescued, he added. Clashes due to cattle thefts On June 25, 2019, nine private buses were damaged by miscreants who threw stones at them, that took place at the communally sensitive Bantwal and Vittal areas, when a city court ordered to hand over cattle which were rescued in Jokatte, to the transporter. A few days later, Belthangady MLA Harish Poonja and his supporters, based on a tip-off, got two people arrested for the smuggling of cattle, and rescued three heads of cattle at Kallamada in Belthangady taluk. There have also been several incidents where those transporting cattle legally have been assaulted and their vehicles damaged by vigilantes. In a recent incident in the Mangaluru city limits near Kottara Chowki, Mahammad Hanif,34, who was transporting cattle legally and had the necessary documents, was assaulted by vigilantes and tied to his vehicle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/cattle-smuggling-in-run-up-to-bakrid-keeps-cops-on-their-toes/articleshow/77155812.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
July 25, 2020||Vadodara||India gets its first honey testing lab||VADODARA/ ANAND: Milk city Anand is now home to country’s first accredited laboratory that can test nectar, a symbol of well-being – the honey. A honey testing facility has come up as part of the Centre for Analysis in Livestock and Food (CALF), the multi-disciplinary laboratory of Anand-headquartered National Dairy Development Board (NDDB). Narendra Singh Tomar, union minister for agriculture and farmers welfare, inaugurated the laboratory and bee-keeping training programme for dairy farmers from Delhi on Friday. It is the only accredited laboratory that can test honey samples as per FSSAI’s latest regulation by undertaking authenticity testing by using sophisticated analytical instruments and wet chemical analysis. The NABL accredited laboratory can also test honey as per requirement of BIS, AGMARK, Codex standards and Residue Monitoring Plan of Export Inspection Council covering pesticides, antibiotics, heavy metals and wet chemical testing. Tomar said that authenticity of honey has become a serious issue as suppliers indulge in unethical practices for economic gains. “The testing facility at NDDB will help honey farmers, cooperatives and honey industry in producing quality honey for domestic consumption and export by meeting regulatory requirements,” he said. Rath said that NDDB along with National Bee Board (NBB) had initiated the drive to promote scientific bee-keeping among farmers through cooperative network.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/india-gets-its-first-honey-testing-lab/articleshow/77157605.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Covid cured, but patients report serious ailments||CHENNAI: The growing challenge for people discharged from Covid-19 wards is complete recovery. While many struggle to overcome residual symptoms such as pain and fatigue, doctors in emergency rooms say there is an increase in the number of people being wheeled in with strokes, heart attacks and life-threatening clots in blood vessels. In some cases, chronic conditions such as diabetes and hypertension — both risk factors — have worsened. A fortnight ago, an 84-year-old discharged Covid-19 patient returned to Gleneagles Global Hospital with severe stroke. “We treated her for a stroke and sent her back home. In just a few days, she developed breathlessness and died at home,” said infectious diseases expert Dr Subramanian Swaminathan. The cause of death, he suspects, could be a heart attack or pulmonary embolism — blockage in a pulmonary artery of the lungs — triggered by Covid-19 complications. Many younger patients with no co-morbidities are also being brought back to hospitals with clots. Kauvery Hospitals senior vascular surgeon Dr N Sekar said at least 10 recovered Covid-19 patients returned with clots on limbs, intestine, brain, and heart in the last 10 days. These included those with mild or no symptoms when infected with Covid-19. Data from across the globe is also showing the virus can worsen or cause diabetes. “Some viruses such as mumps, measles and coxsackievirus attack pancreatic cells (beta cells) that produce insulin. Senior diabetologists across India are forming a registry to study effects of the virus,” he said. Cities like Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai and Trichy have super specialists such as vascular surgeons who attempt surgical intervention to save limbs. Patients in districts aren’t that lucky. “As numbers increase in the districts morbidity and mortality will go up. Although TN has a better doctor-patient ratio compared to many states, doctors are not uniformly spread. So is access to care,” said public health expert T S Sunderraman. While ICMR has asked all states to record and notify post-covid complications carefully, doctors are already tweaking treatment protocols. These protocols, however, are not uniform across hospitals. Dr Sekar says the infectious diseases team at his hospital has now made it mandatory to give blood thinners to all those testing positive for Covid-19, unless they have complications that prevent them from taking the drug. “All young and healthy patients with no symptoms are advised blood thinner pills for at least a month. Elderly or patients with mild or moderate symptoms are given both blood thinners and anticoagulants for six weeks,” he said. The prescriptions attached to discharge summaries for patients at Apollo Hospitals have only anticoagulants for people who had moderate and severe symptoms. “We added these two weeks ago after medical journals strongly recommended medications to prevent complications,” said infectious diseases expert Dr V Ramasubramanian, who is also on the expert medical panel for the state government. Even among government hospitals protocol for post-covid management differs. While Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital does not offer blood thinner or anti-clotting medicine, Omandurar hospital gives patients with moderate and severe symptoms blood thinners (asprin), or anticoagulant (clopidogrel).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-cured-but-patients-report-serious-ailments/articleshow/77158246.cms||Pushpa Narayan
July 25, 2020||Nashik||Situation doesn’t warrantlockdown in Nashik: Tope||(done) Nashik: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Friday said there was no need for a lockdown in Nashik district at this point of time as it has the infrastructure to treat Covid-19 patients and that the number of people testing positive is going down. Tope, along with and NCP president Sharad Pawar, briefed the media following a review meeting with officials of the district administration, health department, police and civic bodies. “The situation in Nashik district is very much under control considering the the comparatively lower number of patients from July 15 to 21,” said Tope. Pawar said people were facing economic problems amid the health crisis. “We should put up a good fight on both the fronts and people need to learn to live with coronavirus,” he said. “Although a lockdown is not required at this point of time, the local authorities and elected representatives are the best judge,” added Pawar. On the lack of availability of beds in hospitals and overcharging, the health minister said government officials will be appointed for every private hospital treating Covid patients to check the bills and availability of beds. Tope said he had asked the district administration to start a call centre that would provide assistance to Covid-19 patients and their relatives in ensuring proper allocation of beds and treatment charges as well. Over the shortage of medicos, Pawar said, “Nashik is home to Maharashtra University of Health Sciences. There should be no shortage of medicos here. The authorities can, however, evoke the Disaster Management Act to get things done,” he added. Box Plasma bank in Malegaon State health minister Rajesh Tope on Friday said the government was setting up a plasma bank in Malegaon on the lines of Dharavi in Mumbai. “We appeal to police and Malegaon residents who have recovered from Covid-19 to contribute to the fight against the infection by way of plasma donation,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/situation-doesnt-warrantlockdown-in-nashik-tope/articleshow/77159749.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 25, 2020||Bareilly||Guest shot in face amid celebratory firing at wedding, critical||Bareilly: Celebrations at a wedding venue came to a standstill after a guest was shot in the face amid celebratory firing. The incident took place at Parsona village in Bareilly district on Thursday night. Police have detained several people but are yet to ascertain who fired the shot. An FIR has not been registered as the victim's family has not filed any complaint, The firing took place before the arrival of the groom's party. The wedding of Nasreen, 22, and Mohammed Kamil was solemnized on Friday in a quiet ceremony in the presence of their parents. The injured man, identified as Nihaluddin, sustained a bullet injury on his face and was rushed to hospital, where his condition is said to be critical. Police said several guests from the bride's side were carrying pistols and firing in the air. All were detained for questioning. Police are also probing if Nihaluddin was deliberately targeted as he had announced that he would contest for village pradhan's post when panchayat elections are held. SSP Bareilly Shailesh Pandey told TOI, "The case is under investigation and the person responsible for firing will not be spared. We are questioning the suspects." The incident has again brought to the fore UP's gun culture. Despite a ban on celebratory firing, people continue to display fire power during celebrations. On March 20, a 30-year-old man and a 12-year-old girl sustained injuries during celebratory firing ar Sohra village under Musajhag police station in Budaun district 0n February 25, a 13-year-old boy was killed in celebratory firing in Budaun. On the same day, a 45-year-old man attending the marriage ceremony of his nephew in Sambhal was hit by a bullet and succumbed to injuries. On February 15, a 13-year-old nephew of the groom sustained a bullet injury during celebratory firing in Thakurdwara area of Moradabad district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/guest-shot-in-face-amid-celebratory-firing-at-wedding-critical/articleshow/77156729.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 25, 2020||Goa||Saligao sees first case after 20-yr-old tests positive||Saligao: Saligao registered its first Covid-19 case on Thursday after a 20-year-old youth from Bairro Alto tested positive for the virus. Health officer of Candolim primary health centre (PHC), Dr Roshan Nazareth, said the boy might have contracted the virus from some roadside vendors. “He came to the health centre complaining about headache and fever, and after doing the swab test he tested positive. This is the first case wherein a villager has tested positive,” Nazareth said. The patient has been shifted to the Covid care centre at Shiroda. Saligao sarpanch Lafira Gomes told TOI that sanitisation of the entire Bairro Alto ward will be carried out. Earlier this month, a woman police constable attached to the Saligao police station, had tested positive The patient has been shifted to the Covid care centre at Shiroda. Saligao sarpanch said that the entire Bairro Alto ward will be sanitised||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/saligao-sees-first-case-after-20-yr-old-tests-positive/articleshow/77159792.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Nashik||‘Fight disease jointly, don’t play politics’||Nashik: Sharad Pawar on Friday said that the opposition parties should not play politics at a time when the entire state was fighting Covid-19. His reaction came as three BJP MLAs from Nashik city as well as the mayor did not attend the review meeting called by state health minister Rajesh Tope and Pawar . The BJP’s city unit president, Girish Palve, had said earlier in the day that the party would boycott the meeting because Sharad Pawar does not hold any constitutional position to call such a meeting in the district. ‘Celebrate fests indoor’ Sharad Pawar appealed to people to set new standards in the joint fight against Covid-19. “All the festivals are being celebrated indoors. The residents of Malegaon have set an example during Ramzan Eid. The community across the state should celebrate Eid-ul-Zuha also at home,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fight-disease-jointly-dont-play-politics/articleshow/77159760.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 25, 2020||Goa||Follow rules during Eid, urges Sawant||Panaji: CM Pramod Sawant on Friday appealed to the Muslim community to follow standard operating procedures (SoP) issued by the directorate of animal husbandry and veterinary services during Bakri Eid. Bakri Eid will be celebrated on July 31 or August 1 depending on the moon sighting. “During this tough time, let us abide by rules and celebrate Eid with peace and love,” Sawant told members of the All Goa Muslim Jamat at a meeting to review Bakri Eid preparations. “Strict action will be taken against those violating the SoP and laws,” he said.  Director general of police Mahesh Kumar Meena, director of animal husbandry and veterinary services Dr Santosh Desai and managing director of Goa Meat Complex Dr R H Prabhugaonkar and other officials were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/follow-rules-during-eid-urges-sawant/articleshow/77159776.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Goa||‘Babush may remain in GMC for few days’||Panaji: Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate who was admitted to Goa Medical College on Thursday may continue to be in the hospital for another couple of days. “CT scan, MRI and other tests were carried out, all tests have come back negative. He will be discharged in a few days,” Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said. On Thursday morning, Monserrate complained of dizziness and was taken to a private doctor who in turn referred him to GMC. St Cruz MLA Antonio Fernandes on Thursday said that it was suspected that Monserrate was suffering from vertigo and was put under treatment. CM Pramod Sawant and state BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade visited Monserrate in the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/babush-may-remain-in-gmc-for-few-days/articleshow/77159762.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Hyderabad||SC extends Telangana encounter inquiry panel’s tenure by six months||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Friday granted six-month extension to the Justice Sirpurkar Committee to complete its inquiry into the Telangana encounter killing case after learning that the Covid-19 lockdown and restriction on travel of senior citizens has paralysed its work. A bench headed by CJI S A Bobde acceded to Justice Sirpurkar Committee's request for extension. The SC had in December last year constituted a three-member panel headed by 74-year-old former SC judge V S Sirpurkar, 65-year-old former Bombay HC judge Rekha Baldota and 84-year-old former CBI director D R Karthikeyan. It had asked the panel to submit its report within six months of its first meeting, which took place in February. The panel has received over 1,400 affidavits from the public and witnesses on the encounter killing of four men, who were accused of gang-rape and murder of a veterinarian in Hyderabad last year. "Of the total affidavits, around 1,300 support the police encounter. But we have to study the affidavits and examine the witnesses, which require extensive field work and on the spot inquiry. This is not possible since all of us are above 65 years of age who have been asked not to venture out during the Covid-19 pandemic," Justice Sirpurkar had told TOI. Justice Sirpurakar, who was an SC judge from January 2007 to August 2011, said since the committee members were not able to meet because of Covid-related travel restrictions on senior citizens, the inquiry was delayed.  The panel sought extension of time beyond August for completion of the inquiry, which would require cross-examination of witnesses who have filed affidavits||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sc-extends-t-encounter-inquiry-panels-tenure-by-six-months/articleshow/77158314.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Hundreds flock to testing centres fearing infection||HYDERABAD: With the fear of community transmission looming large, hundreds of people are flocking to the Covid-19 testing centres across the state. All the testing centres at the PHCs and community health centres in urban and rural areas are teeming with people to get the tests done. Though each centre has a capacity to do about 50 tests, 300 to 400 people are lining up every day, said officials. This is leading to the delay in conducting the tests and filing the test results. The situation has reached a stage where those coming to the centres are issued tokens so that they can come back the next day or two days later. “I was given a token for the Covid-19 test at a centre. My test was slotted for Monday. I went to another centre and got myself tested. Fortunately, I tested negative in the rapid antigen test. One of my colleagues, however, tested positive,” a private firm employee from Qutbullapur, said.  “Even asymptomatic people are anxiously coming out for testing. Many others are rushing to the centres in the fear that they may have come in contact with a Covid-19 patient in the street or at a supermarker or a shop,” a health official said. Dr B Veeranjaneyulu, DMHO of Medchal, said people who had earlier refused to undergo testing now want themselves tested to rule out the infection.  “We have 36 testing centres. The rush is visible in Malkajgiri areas hospital testing centre and the homeo hospital at Tarnaka,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hundreds-flock-to-testing-centres-fearing-infection/articleshow/77158272.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 25, 2020||Delhi||Industries back, to hit water supply in Delhi||NEW DELHI: With industries resuming operations in the upstream areas of the Yamuna, the pollution level has spiked and work at three water treatment plants was hit twice on Thursday and Friday. A senior Delhi Jal Board (DJB) official overseeing quality control said that in the past two days the ammonia level reached 3.5ppm, while the treatment plants have the capacity to treat raw river water with a maximum limit of 0.9ppm. Toxic froth was also visible at Okhla barrage, indicating that pollution in the river had again started rising. “The ammonia level is currently around 3ppm in the raw river water. In the last three months, around 2,000-3,000 cusecs of water was being released due to which the pollution load was reduced. But now, the water being released has reduced a lot and industrial pollutants are back in Yamuna,” the official said. Senior DJB officials said that release of industrial waste from Haryana, algae growth and low quantity of water had hit 25% of the processing capacity at Chandrawal and Wazirabad WTPs. Operations were also briefly affected at the Okhla plant. “As the ammonia level rises, we reduce the operation of the plants in a graded manner. We dilute the raw water and keep operation at 50% to maintain the supply,” the official said. In a statement, DJB said it was trying to rationalise supply, so water would be available at low pressure till the situation improved. “The affected areas include parts of west Delhi, north Delhi, central Delhi, south Delhi, Delhi Cantonment and New Delhi Municipal Council areas. The public is advised to make judicious use of water,” it added. By Friday evening, the operations at Chandrawal and Wazirabad were normalised. However, due to less treatment the entire day, supply in the evening from associated underground reservoirs was affected. Officials said the problem could return in the coming days till flooding started in the Yamuna. Industrial pollutants and spike in the ammonia level have become a recurring phenomenon with neighbouring states regularly indulging in blame game. High ammonia levels first impact Wazirabad, Chandrawal and Okhla plants, which draw water directly from the river. Watch Delhi: As industries resume activity, pollutants level in Yamuna spike||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/industries-back-to-hit-water-supply/articleshow/77158327.cms||Paras Singh
July 25, 2020||Bareilly||Over 3 yrs after demonetization, junked currencies with face value of Rs 20L seized in Bareilly; 5 held||Bareilly: Police have arrested five people with demonetized notes with a face value of Rs 20 lakh from Faridpur area of Bareilly district on Thursday night. The accused had come to meet a tantrik in Faridpur allegedly to exchange old currency notes for the new ones. One of the accused who is believed to be the main source of cash managed to escape when police stopped their vehicle. An FIR under section 5/7 of RBI act and section 188 of IPC (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant) has been registered. After the recovery, Bareilly police alerted various states and central agencies, including Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS), and all the agencies questioned the accused to find out if they have any connection to any terrorist group. Three accused belong to Uttarakhand while the other two are from Rampur district. The mediator is from Budaun district. Manjeet Singh, ATS in-charge in Bareilly, said, “We have questioned the accused and found that the missing accused is the one who arranged the demonetized currency. We have alerted our units to find if these accused have any terrorist connection.” Bareilly SSP Shailesh Pandey said, “We have recovered 1,522 demonetised notes of Rs 1,000 and 956 notes of Rs 500. Two of the accused from Uttarakhand are collection agents at a private bank. One of the accused is absconding and we have sent teams to nab him at the earliest. The accused are being questioned and we would seek their remand for further investigation. We need to establish the original source of cash.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/over-3-yrs-after-demonetization-junked-currencies-with-face-value-of-rs-20l-seized-in-bareilly-5-held/articleshow/77156750.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 25, 2020||Goa||Goa Inc tells CM to rethink retrenchment compensation||Panaji: Goa’s three major industry associations have raised the red flag over the state government’s decision to rush through an amendment to the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, saying that the proposed amendment will have a severe and adverse impact on Goa’s industrial sector. Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Confederation of Indian Industry – Goa and Goa State Industries Association have written a joint letter to chief minister Pramod Sawant to rethink the move to pass the amendment on Monday at the one-day assembly session. The amendment to Industrial Disputes Act will ratify an ordinance which brought in quite a few reforms for the industry, but also increased the compensation amount for retrenched workers. “Under the current economic slowdown, no industry whether small, medium and large in Goa can afford to pay such steep compensation at the rate of 45 days’ wages per completed years of service,” states the joint statement shared with the chief minister. An industry delegation from GSIA, GCCI and CII had attempted to meet labour minister Jennifer Monserrate to address the concerns, but the minister could not make it for the meeting. GSIA also took up the issue up with the labour secretary to convince them that the amendment will have a “severe and adverse impact” on the industrial situation in Goa. This, said GCCI president Manoj Caculo, is not good for a small state like Goa. While many states have come out with amendments similar to the ones proposed in Goa, almost all the states have maintained the retrenchment compensation at 15 days. “With the increase in the rate to 45 days, it is now expected that workmen and unions will base their demand for additional compensation over and above the revised statutory compensation of 45 days, which, being not affordable will thereby result in more industrial disputes and disturbances in industrial relations and peace in Goa,” said GSIA president Damodar Kochkar. The industry bodies have asked the state to avoid taking hasty decisions and instead hold stakeholder consultations before passing the amendment. “We request you to avoid taking any hasty decision that will have a long-term impact on the state’s industrial sector. Kindly refer the matter to State Labour Advisory Board which is the more competent forum as it has representation from the government, employers as well as labour unions,” said CII-Goa chairman Blaise Costabir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-inc-tells-cm-to-rethink-retrenchment-compensation/articleshow/77159789.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: No registry to track 1.4 lakh discharged patients||CHENNAI: While the state boasts that at least seven out of 10 patients with Covid-19 are ‘cured’ from the viral infection, there is no registry or record that tracks the health condition of more than 1.4 lakh such patients across the state. Infectious diseases experts and epidemiologists are now calling for a registry that will look at the morbidity and mortality of patients after 30 days and 90 days of discharge. On Friday, more than 6,000 patients were discharged taking the total number of people discharged 1,43,297 from the cumulative case tally of 1,99,749. Since July 1, more than 1.09 lakh people have been cured of the ailment, as per patient records. Since May, the state has stopped doing exit tests to declare patients cured. Director of public health Dr T S Selva Vinayagam said patients in home isolation and those admitted to Covid care centres are discharged 10 days after the onset of symptoms provided they show no symptoms for three consecutive days. For patients admitted to hospitals with moderate or severe discharge protocol, most hospitals in TN do a chest x-ray. For immunocompromised (those with HIV/AIDS or malignancy, transplant recipients) patients, the patient has to test negative once by RT-PCR after resolution of symptoms. However, the state health department does not have a ready record to show that these symptoms have been followed. Doctors say it is time to monitor patients being discharged. “We must verify if discharge summaries are issued and if patients are being declared fit after taking adequate precautions. For instance, patients with severe symptoms should have a clear chest x-ray before they go home,” said NIE deputy director Dr Prabhdeep Kaur. While infectious diseases expert Subramanian Swaminathan insisted on a follow-up for 30 and 90 days, former public health director Dr K Kolandasamy said states should take examples from countries like the UK and follow patients who have recovered from the viral infection for several months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-registry-to-track-1-4l-discharged-patients/articleshow/77158318.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Bareilly||Two kids buried alive after roof collapse in Budaun village||Bareilly: A seven-year-old boy and his six-year-old sister were buried alive after their house roof collapsed on them early on Friday. Another 14-year-old girl and the children’s grandmother sustained injuries in the incident and are undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Bareilly. The incident took place in Ranuiya village under Ujhani police station of Budaun when the four were sleeping inside a room. Officials said the roof of the house had become weak following two days of rainfall. According to police, Rajveer, a farmer, has been living with his family in Ujhani town, but he along with his wife, parents and children came to Ranuiya village on Thursday to celebrate the Teej festival. The children along with their grandmother, Gayatri Devi, were sleeping in the room while the kids’ parents were sleeping in another room and the grandfather was near a cowshed.After the roof suddenly collapsed, Vansh and Shreya died on the spot while Rajveer and Gayatri Devi were admitted to a hospital in Budaun. They were later referred to another hospital in Bareilly.Sub-divisional magistrate, Budaun Sadar, Parasnath Maurya said, “The house was constructed without the use of concrete. After two days of rainfall, the roof collapsed and two children died on the spot while two other family members sustained injuries. As the incident comes under state disaster, the family will receive a compensation of Rs 10 lakh.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-kids-buried-alive-after-roof-collapse-in-budaun-village/articleshow/77156762.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
July 25, 2020||Nashik||Nashik district registers 305 fresh cases, 6 deaths in 24 hours||Nashik district recorded 305 new Covid-19 cases, including 193 from the city, in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of positive cases to 11,274. The district also recorded six Covid-related deaths during the same period. In addition, 349 patients were discharged from various hospitals in the district on Friday, including 219 patients from the city. Interestingly, Nashik city has crossed the 5,000 mark of recovered patients on Friday. A total of 5,107 patients have recovered so far with the recovery rate of the city reaching 73.10%. This is the highest Covid recovery rate of the city till date. The recovery rate of the city by June 30 was only 42.60%. The recovery rate of the district stands at 72.26% with a total of 8,147 patients having recovered from the contagion so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-district-registers-305-fresh-cases-6-deaths-in-24-hours/articleshow/77159782.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 25, 2020||Lucknow||Kanpur encounter: Would have shot Vikas Dubey to save cops, says Richa Dubey||LUCKNOW: Reposing her faith in the judicial system, Richa Dubey, wife of slain gangster Vikas Dubey, on Friday said had she been there in Bikru village on the fateful day she would have shot her husband to save the lives of policemen who died in the ambush. She said no one had the courage to stop her husband from committing the crime, instead they supported Vikas in attacking cops. “Had I been present on the fateful night, I would have surely shot my own husband first, because as a woman I think it is better to save 17 lives than that of one person, even if it is mine,” she told reporters. “The crime committed by Vikas is so condemnable that I am unable to go out and face the world. Attack on cops is unjustified as they are the saviours of people. I beg for mercy and forgiveness from the families of those policemen who died or sustained injuries in the attack,” she said. Refuting claims that Vikas had amassed properties, Richa retorted: “Had Vikas been so rich, his wife would have not been living in 1600 sq ft house in Lucknow. I would have been settled abroad.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/would-have-shot-don-to-save-cops/articleshow/77160512.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government brings testing to colonies, RWAs roped in to provide details of vulnerable groups||NEW DELHI: After covering containment and buffer zones, the district administrations have now asked RWAs to share details of residents in vulnerable groups, such as senior citizens, their caretakers, those with comorbidities, regular visitors to the colony, etc, so that they could be tested. Delhi government officials are organising camps within colonies to bring antigen tests at people’s doorsteps. Navjeevan Vihar RWA shared a list of 200 people and many were tested last week. Ruby Makhija, secretary of Navjeevan Vihar RWA, said, “We were approached by the Mehrauli SDM to share a list of vulnerable people, senior citizens and those with comorbidities. We gave details of residents, including name, age, diseases, etc. Many people with diabetes and other diseases also turned up. We even shared information of front line workers, such as sanitation staff, guards, domestic workers and shopkeepers who are exposed to the outside environment. This initiative will encourage many others to avail the facility.” An official said the camps were aimed at reducing chances of complications in future. “After we got a direction from the government, a decision was taken to involve RWAs as they can encourage residents to come out of their houses. We have covered 10 colonies in South district. The process will continue,” he added. A camp was recently organised at a government school in Safdarjung Enclave in which over 150 people from Safdarjung Enclave, Green Park and Green Park Extension, mostly domestic workers, guards and shopkeepers, participated. Pankaj Aggarwal of Safdarjung Enclave RWA said, “We have requested the administration to hold another camp exclusively for our residents. We will inform residents about the timings in advance so that they won’t need to wait. I spoke to the SDM on Friday and he agreed to it. The officials have demanded details of residents and suitable dates.” At Sainik Farm, around 1,000 people, including 25-30% residents, participated in the testing camps organised at a charitable dispensary in three phases earlier this month. Hardeep Singh of Sainik Farm RWA said, “We got 300 visitors each day. The first two hours in the morning were booked for residents so they wouldn’t need to wait. The RWA even arranged for vehicles for transportation of residents aged above 55. In some cases, RT-PCR testing was also done.” However, at New Friends Colony, only 5% residents turned up for testing. The rest were domestic workers, vendors and regular visitors to the colony. “One of our residents, Arun Jaggi, coordinated with Delhi government and 210 people came on two days. Eight of them tested positive,” said Chitra Jain of NFC RWA. In comparison, there was a good response at the GK-II testing camp and it was extended from the scheduled one day to three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-brings-testing-to-colonies-rwas-roped-in-to-provide-details-of-vulnerable-groups/articleshow/77158425.cms||Vibha Sharma
July 25, 2020||Nashik||Rates for ambulances revised, displayed on website||Nashik: The Nashik Regional Transport Authority has passed a resolution regarding finalization of ambulance rates in view of reports of exorbitant charges. Senior RTO officials said the Bombay high court had issued directives to finalise the rate of ambulances and display the chart on the website of the Maharashtra Motor Vehicles Department. Accordingly, the rates have been decided. For non-AC Maruti vans and Echo vehicles, the rates are Rs 500 for 25 km or two hours and Rs 11 per km. For non-AC Sumos and Jeep-like vehicles, the rates are Rs 600 for 25 kms or two hours or Rs 12 per km. For bigger ambulances like Tata 407 the new rate is Rs 800 per 25 kms or for two hours or Rs 13 per kilometer, while the rate for air-conditioned cardio vans, the rate will be Rs 1,000 per 25 kms or two hours or Rs 20 per kilometer. The Nashik RTO officials said that while ambulance operators can provide services with the aforesaid rates or even provide free services, they cannot charge higher rate. It will be mandatory for ambulance operators to put up the rate chart inside the ambulance. The responsibility of keeping the ambulance well maintained and sanitized lies with the operator or driver. Nashik regional transport officer Bharat Kalaskar said the rate revision was due. “The rates were modified keeping in mind the current fuel prices. Due the Covid-19 pandemic, there is a possibility that ambulance operators could inflate their rates. Two weeks back, one case had come up but was resolved by the Nashik RTO office,” he said. Those who have any complaints with respect to the charges of ambulances can contact the Nashik RTO on 0253- 2229005/2229003.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rates-for-ambulances-revised-displayed-on-website/articleshow/77159830.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Elderly among two to succumb to Covid-19||TNNLudhiana: Two persons from Ludhiana, including an elderly, died of Covid-19 on Friday, when 105 cases were reported from the district and 11 outsiders were confirmed to have contracted the virus. Health department officials said a 62-year-old man of Ghumar Mandi, who also had high blood pressure, TB and heart and respiratory diseases, died at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. They said the second casualty was a 50-year-old diabetic man, who died at a city hospital.The health department officials said with this, district toll has reached 52 and 36 from outside lost their lives here.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga said of the pending reports, 28 samples tested positive, of which 27 are from Ludhiana district and one is from Bathinda. The department said of the positive cases in Ludhiana district, five cases are from BRS Nagar, Model Gram, three from Raghunath Enclave, two from Ghumar Mandi and one each from Jagraon, Partap Singh Wala, Durgapuri Haibowal, Tibba Road, Deep Nagar Payal, Civil Lines Police Quarters, Talwandi, Civil Lines, Major Gurdial Singh Road, Rakba, Chawni Mohalla, Fatehgarh Mohalla, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Salem Tabari, Samrala and Jalandhar Bypass. It added that apart from these, 89 positive cases were reported from private hospitals and laboratory out of which 78 belonged to Ludhiana district, two each to Fatehgarh Sahib, Moga and Barnala and one each to Nawanshahr, Pathankot, Ferozepur, Barnala and Bihar. The civil surgeon said of the positive cases from Ludhiana district, five were from Jamalpur, four from Barewal Rajguru Nagar, three from Oswal Colony Giaspura, Model Town, Khanna, BRS Nagar, two each from PAU campus, Focal Point, Dugri, Shivaji Nagar, New Janta Nagar, New Subhash Nagar, Kitchlu Nagar, Tajpur Road, Miller Ganj and Ranjit Nagar Sherpur, and one case each was from Valmiki Temple, Anand Vihar, Giaspura, Haibowal Kalan, Prem Nagar Giaspura, Lohara, Agar Nagar Extension, Mahon, Subhash Nagar, Salaudi, Satjot Nagar, CMC Dental College, Issa Nagri, Machhiwara, Upkar Nagar Civil Line, Harbanspura, Sheikhupura, Janakpuri, SBS Nagar Pakhowal Road, Civil Lines, Rajguru Nagar, Major Gurdial Singh Nagar, Samrala, Bal Singh Nagar, GK Estate, Navi Abadi Khanna, Baba Deep Singh Nagar, Hargobind Nagar, Sector 32-A Chandigarh Road, Purana Bazaar, Mall Road, Gopal Nagar Haibowal Kalan, Jagraon and Sahnewal.Health department officials said 2,275 district residents and 357 outsiders have so far tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/elderly-among-two-to-succumb-to-covid-19/articleshow/77156798.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Gurgaon||Wife wants death for man for murdering their 5 kids in Jind district||JIND: Wife of the man, who killed all their five children, has sought death sentence for him for the brutal killings, saying he should be hanged or killed the way he killed the children. Reena of Didwara village under Safidon sub-division of of Jind district, who is nearly nine-month pregnant, said, “My husband strangulated my nine-month-old daughter two-and-half years ago, poisoned two sons Aryan (1) and Nabi (2) after a gap of around one year and on July 15, he gave sleeping pills to me and my two daughters Nisha (7) and Muskan (11) and took them on bike and threw in Hansi-Butana Link (HBL) canal. I came to know about his crime when my husband confessed to the killings at the village panchayat a day ago.” She said she is shattered to know all this and wants death for her husband. “He should be shot dead or hanged immediately, so that her children can get instant justice. My husband used to go to an occultist, but I am not aware about his involvement. I just came to know that he told the villagers that children were killed as he failed to take care of them due to our poor condition,” Reena said. Parmod, a prominent person of the village, who was present at the panchayat, said in the panchayat, the accused confessed that on the advice of an occultist, he killed his children. ASP Ajit Singh Shekhawat said the accused has confessed to the killings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/wife-wants-death-for-man-for-murdering-their-5-kids/articleshow/77158348.cms||Vijender Kumar
July 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: 20 members of inter-state drug cartel arrested in 8-week operation||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab Police has busted an inter-state drug cartel operating in 11 states across the country and using the hawala channel route. In an operation spanning over eight weeks, the police have arrested 20 persons and seized over 27.62 lakh intoxicating tablets, capsules, injections and syrup bottles along with drug proceeds money of Rs 70.03 lakh and five vehicles. Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta said the drug cartel, known as ‘Agra Gang’, was pushing pharmaceutical opioids (drugs) into the markets across India by diverting drugs in huge quantities from drug manufacturers, suppliers, wholesalers and retail chemists across the country. He added that of the 20 accused arrested so far, 16 are from Punjab, two from Uttar Pradesh and one each from Haryana and Delhi. With the arrest of these gang members, the Barnala police claims to have broken the drug syndicate pushing consignments to the tune of Rs 10 to Rs 12 crore of intoxicating pharmaceutical opioids in the form of tablets, capsules, injections and syrups per month into Punjab and other parts of the country. These 20 accused were arrested from various locations in Punjab, Haryana, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. The Barnala police had busted a ‘Mathura Gang’ in March and seized 44 lakh intoxicants and Rs 1.5 crore drug money in the biggest ever such haul by the Punjab Police. The DGP said the case began to unravel in May with the arrest of Balwinder Singh alias Nikka and four others, alongwith over 2.85 lakh intoxicating tablets (Tab Clovidol) during investigation into an FIR registered under the NDPS Act at police station Mehal Kalan on May 23. The Barnala police spent over two months developing the available leads, laying out elaborate surveillance plans and a trap was then laid out with a special team being sent to West Bengal from where one of the accused, Harish, was nabbed. He later disclosed the gang’s modus operandi and chain of supply of psychotropic drugs in over 11 states. The Punjab Police operation and the huge recovery of pharmaceutical opioids was highly significant as pharmaceutical opioids (which itself includes a variety of medications of the opioid group) are the second most commonly used opioids in India (0.96%) after heroin, the DGP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/20-members-of-inter-state-drug-cartel-arrested-in-8-week-op/articleshow/77162315.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: 20 members of inter-state drug cartel arrested in 8-week operation||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab Police has busted an inter-state drug cartel operating in 11 states across the country and using the hawala channel route. In an operation spanning over eight weeks, the police have arrested 20 persons and seized over 27.62 lakh intoxicating tablets, capsules, injections and syrup bottles along with drug proceeds money of Rs 70.03 lakh and five vehicles. Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta said the drug cartel, known as ‘Agra Gang’, was pushing pharmaceutical opioids (drugs) into the markets across India by diverting drugs in huge quantities from drug manufacturers, suppliers, wholesalers and retail chemists across the country. He added that of the 20 accused arrested so far, 16 are from Punjab, two from Uttar Pradesh and one each from Haryana and Delhi. With the arrest of these gang members, the Barnala police claims to have broken the drug syndicate pushing consignments to the tune of Rs 10 to Rs 12 crore of intoxicating pharmaceutical opioids in the form of tablets, capsules, injections and syrups per month into Punjab and other parts of the country. These 20 accused were arrested from various locations in Punjab, Haryana, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. The Barnala police had busted a ‘Mathura Gang’ in March and seized 44 lakh intoxicants and Rs 1.5 crore drug money in the biggest ever such haul by the Punjab Police. The DGP said the case began to unravel in May with the arrest of Balwinder Singh alias Nikka and four others, alongwith over 2.85 lakh intoxicating tablets (Tab Clovidol) during investigation into an FIR registered under the NDPS Act at police station Mehal Kalan on May 23. The Barnala police spent over two months developing the available leads, laying out elaborate surveillance plans and a trap was then laid out with a special team being sent to West Bengal from where one of the accused, Harish, was nabbed. He later disclosed the gang’s modus operandi and chain of supply of psychotropic drugs in over 11 states. The Punjab Police operation and the huge recovery of pharmaceutical opioids was highly significant as pharmaceutical opioids (which itself includes a variety of medications of the opioid group) are the second most commonly used opioids in India (0.96%) after heroin, the DGP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/20-members-of-inter-state-drug-cartel-arrested-in-8-week-op/articleshow/77158352.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: 20 members of inter-state drug cartel arrested in 8-week operation||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab Police has busted an inter-state drug cartel operating in 11 states across the country and using the hawala channel route. In an operation spanning over eight weeks, the police have arrested 20 persons and seized over 27.62 lakh intoxicating tablets, capsules, injections and syrup bottles along with drug proceeds money of Rs 70.03 lakh and five vehicles. Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta said the drug cartel, known as ‘Agra Gang’, was pushing pharmaceutical opioids (drugs) into the markets across India by diverting drugs in huge quantities from drug manufacturers, suppliers, wholesalers and retail chemists across the country. He added that of the 20 accused arrested so far, 16 are from Punjab, two from Uttar Pradesh and one each from Haryana and Delhi. With the arrest of these gang members, the Barnala police claims to have broken the drug syndicate pushing consignments to the tune of Rs 10 to Rs 12 crore of intoxicating pharmaceutical opioids in the form of tablets, capsules, injections and syrups per month into Punjab and other parts of the country. These 20 accused were arrested from various locations in Punjab, Haryana, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. The Barnala police had busted a ‘Mathura Gang’ in March and seized 44 lakh intoxicants and Rs 1.5 crore drug money in the biggest ever such haul by the Punjab Police. The DGP said the case began to unravel in May with the arrest of Balwinder Singh alias Nikka and four others, alongwith over 2.85 lakh intoxicating tablets (Tab Clovidol) during investigation into an FIR registered under the NDPS Act at police station Mehal Kalan on May 23. The Barnala police spent over two months developing the available leads, laying out elaborate surveillance plans and a trap was then laid out with a special team being sent to West Bengal from where one of the accused, Harish, was nabbed. He later disclosed the gang’s modus operandi and chain of supply of psychotropic drugs in over 11 states. The Punjab Police operation and the huge recovery of pharmaceutical opioids was highly significant as pharmaceutical opioids (which itself includes a variety of medications of the opioid group) are the second most commonly used opioids in India (0.96%) after heroin, the DGP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/20-members-of-inter-state-drug-cartel-arrested-in-8-week-op/articleshow/77162316.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: HC probe into hospital charging Rs 6.5 lakh for victim’s body handover||HYDERABAD: Taking a serious view of a complaint against a private hospital for allegedly refusing to hand over the body of a Covid-19 patient till his family cleared the dues, Justice T Vinod Kumar of the Telangana high court on Friday ordered a probe. The judge was hearing a petition filed by Kondapuram Lavanya of Balanagar whose husband Mohan Babu had died of Covid-19 in the hospital. A watchman, Babu was admitted in Continental Hospitals at Nanakramguda on July 13. He tested positive for coronavirus and breathed his last on July 22. Hearing her plea, the judge said that scores of complaints were coming out about the exorbitant charges of private hospitals and asked public health director and DMHO of Hyderabad to conduct a thorough probe into the incident. He asked the authorities to submit a report to the court within six weeks. Babu’s wife paid Rs 2.5 lakh at the time of admission. “Now, the hospital is demanding another Rs 6.5 lakh more. That means Rs 9 lakh for the nine-day stay in the hospital,” her counsel said. He complained that hospital was not according any respect to the recent GO issued by state government, which had stipulated that the cost of the stay should not cross Rs 9,000 per day. “In that sense, total bill should not cross Rs 1 lakh,” he said. Victim’s wife, Lavanya, in her plea, argued that the hospital management was insisting that she must pay Rs 6.5 lakh to get her husband’s body||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-probe-into-hosp-charging-rs-6-5-lakh-for-victims-body-handover/articleshow/77158375.cms||M Sagar Kumar
July 25, 2020||Goa||Compile data of all workers, Cuncolim industrial units told||Margao: The Cuncolim industrial estate has once again come under the radar of the South Goa district administration. Salcete mamlatdar Prataprao Gaonkar on Friday paid an unannounced visit to the Cuncolim industrial estate following complaints about unrestricted movement of workers in the industrial estate. Gaonkar told TOI that as most of the industrial workers were staying in or in the vicinity of the industrial estate, each unit within the industrial estate has been directed to come out with a standard operating procedure governing the conduct of the workers at the workplace, especially with regards to personal safety measures. The managers of each unit were also directed to compile data of their workers’ address, health status, and details about their labour contractors. Locals had also raised concerns as many workers of the industrial units are staying in rented places in the residential areas of Cuncolim. The South Goa district administration is also keeping a close watch on the outbreak of Covid-19 in Gogol, Margao, after six members of two families tested positive two days ago. The Margao urban health centre on Friday drew throat swab samples of several people from the housing board area as a part of the contact tracing exercise, the results of which are awaited. Health department officials said the two families had come in the contact with a Covid positive patient who later succumbed to the infection. Sources in the South Goa district administration said that the authorities were seriously considering putting in place outbreak containment measures in the Gogol housing board area. A decision will be taken based on the reports of the swab samples drawn from the area on Thursday. The two municipal markets in Margao are also under the watch of the authorities after two persons from the Gandhi market area tested positive. Already, the new municipal market is under a week-long shutdown after the owner of a restaurant in the market died of Covid-19. The market is likely to open on Monday. Most of the shops in the vicinity of the two markets are closed, and those few shops which are open hardly see any customers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/compile-data-of-all-workers-cuncolim-industrial-units-told/articleshow/77159876.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Goa||Apex court defers hearing in MLAs’ case for 2 weeks||Panaji: The Supreme Court on Friday adjourned the hearing by two weeks on Congress petition seeking direction to the speaker to expedite the decision on disqualification petition filed by the Congress against ten of its legislators, who had joined BJP. Speaking to TOI, petitioner and Goa Pradesh Congress Party (GPCC) president Girish Chodankar said, “Hearing is adjourned by two weeks due to technical reason.” During the hearing, senior advocate Mukul Rohtgi, who appeared on behalf of one of the MLAs, said the respondent MLAs were unable to access their official emails. They were served the petition on their official emails. The court directed the petitioner to serve the petition again by email. Senior advocates Harish Salve, appeared for the Speaker, and senior advocate Kapil Sibal appeared for the petitioner. Goa legislative assembly speaker Rajesh Patnekar in his reply before the apex court had said that due to Covid-19 pandemic, no new date was given to the parties for hearing in the disqualification petitions. The speaker filed reply after the apex court issued notice to him. In August 2019, Congress had filed a disqualification petition before speaker against the 10 rebel MLAs who quit and joined BJP in July 2019. Congress state president Chodankar had sought before the SC that the 10 MLAs be restrained from attending assembly proceedings and also holding constitutional posts till the case is decided by the speaker. On July 10, 2019 rebel Congress MLAs led by Kavlekar joined BJP claiming that the Congress Legislature Party had split. The remaining nine MLAs were Isidore Fernandes, Nilkanth Halarnkar, revenue minister Jennifer Monserrate, Antonio Fernandes, Francisco Silveira, Wilfred D’sa, Clafasio Dias, water resources minister Filipe Rodrigues and Atanasio Monserrate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/apex-court-defers-hearing-in-mlas-case-for-2-weeks/articleshow/77159844.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Nashik||328 booked in a single day for not wearing masks||Nashik: As many as 328 people were booked by the police on a single day on Thursday for not observing safety protocols like wearing masks and observing social distancing. The violators have been slapped with either section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated) of the IPC or with non-conginazable offences. With the relaxation in lockdown, a large number of people are going back to their previous routine before the outbreak of Covid-19 and not following safety protocol, thereby putting the health of both themselves and the people around them at risk. On this backdrop, police have decided to come down heavily on such people and book them for not taking necessary precautions. Police said that so far, 14,781 people have been booked for not wearing masks ever since the Epidemic Prevention Act was enforced in the city following the outbreak of Covid-19. A total of 30,474 cognizable and non-cognizable offences have been registered against people for not following safety norms between March 22 and July 23. Apart from this, police have also challaned erring motorists and recovered fine to the tune of Rs 1.71 crore from March 25 to July 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/328-booked-in-a-single-day-for-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/77159847.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Goa||3 youth held for bike thefts, police recover 15 vehicles||Panaji: Pernem police busted a gang allegedly involved in two-wheeler thefts and arrested three persons. Police said that 15 motorcycles worth over Rs 25 lakh were recovered, and more accused are likely to be arrested in the case. North Goa Superintendent of police Utkrisht Prasoon said that Denzil Carasco, 29, a resident of Karaswada, Mapusa, Simon D’Souza, 23, a resident of Sucorro, and Gordon Fernandes, 18, a resident of Siolim have been arrested under various sections of the Indian Penal Code. All the accused have been remanded to three-day police custody. Police said that numerous bike thefts were being reported in some areas of Bardez taluka. Following investigations, police zeroed in on the accused. Police said that most of the bikes were stolen during the lockdown period. The accused would steal old bikes which are not available in the market as such two-wheelers attract a high resale value, police said, and added that once the bikes were stolen, one of the gang members would dismantle the bikes and sell the parts. Police said that on Thursday night, the patrolling party received information that a youth was moving suspiciously at Chopdem, and accordingly the person was apprehended. Upon inquiry, he disclosed the names of two more persons, and all three were later arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/3-youth-held-for-bike-thefts-police-recover-15-vehicles/articleshow/77159854.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Nizamabad on course to begin plasma therapy||HYDERABAD: With the number of positive patients going up, Nizamabad is set to become the first district outside Hyderabad to begin plasma treatment. The district authorities have written to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) seeking permission to take up the plasma donation at the district headquarters hospital. Authorities told TOI that they have been maintaining the data of the recovered patients and many are willing to donate. Nizamabad is one of the districts where local transmission is said to be high and the number of cases likely to go up. The authorities are set begin the rapid antigen tests with 3,000 test kits already sent to the district. Currently, 100 Covid-19 patients are undergoing treatment in the district hospital. The ICU bed capacity with oxygen has been increased from 40 to 250 and ventilator capacity to 70 from 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nizamabad-on-course-to-begin-plasma-therapy/articleshow/77158406.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 25, 2020||Ludhiana||For murder bid over old enmity, two of six accused arrested||TNN Ludhiana: Hathur police on Friday arrested two of the six accused who had tried to kill a group of persons by allegedly firing at them over an old enmity. The accused have been identified as Gurpreet Singh Gopi, Hardev Singh, Harwinder Singh, all of Rasoolpura, Sukhjeevan Singh of Derka, Gopa and Kali, both of Malla.In his police complaint, 40-year-old Maninder Singh of Rasoolpura, who is a farmer, said he, his son Jasvir Singh, his friends Gurpreet Singh, Gurpreet Singh Kembi and Amandeep Singh, all of Rasoolpura, were travelling in a white Verna car when around 11.30am on Thursday they saw a white Swift Dzire car near Ittan Waala Chowk. The complainant said on seeing them, Gurpreet Singh Gopi, with an intention to kill them, started firing and splinters hit Gurpreet Singh Kembi’s chest, neck and private parts. Maninder said the accused fired continuously and splinters hit him in the right leg, his friend Gurpreet Singh in the forehead and left ankle and Amandeep Singh Amna in the chest and thigh.The complainant said the accused fired seven to eight bullets and some also hit the rear of his vehicle. He added that they fled the spot to save their lives and the accused also sped away.Maninder said apart from Gurpreet Singh Gopi, another accused was carrying a pistol and fired in the air. He said another accused, Sukjeevan Singh, remained in the car.The complainant said the accused earlier had a fight with them at the sarpanch’s house, and his wife had filed a complaint with the Raikot DSP. He said the accused was asking him to withdraw the complaint and on the day of the crime, they had to appear for a hearing at Jagraon SDM’s office. Maninder said the Jagraon civil hospital referred his friend Gurpreet Singh Kembi to a Ludhiana hospital, as he had serious injuries, while they were discharged after treatment. Hathur police have booked the accused for attempt to murder and under other sections of the IPC and the Arms Act. Investigating officer inspector Harjinder Singh said accused Harwinder and Hardev Singh were arrested on Friday afternoon and they have launched a manhunt for others. After all the arrests are made, police will inquire about the weapons used in the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/for-murder-bid-over-old-enmity-two-of-six-accused-arrested/articleshow/77156810.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Major fire at plastic unit in Focal Point, half of building collapses||Ludhiana: A major fire broke out at a plastic manufacturing unit in Focal Point, Phase 6, on Thursday night. Firemen took about eight hours to bring the situation under control. Besides intense smoke and flames, a single exit and entry to the unit, PC Converter, made the operation tough. It is yet to be ascertained what caused the fire as the factory was closed at the time.Firemen said after receiving a call around 11.30pm, 10 fire tenders from all five fire stations were rushed to the spot. When firemen reached the spot, the blaze had engulfed the factory and it was impossible to enter it from the main gate. They climbed the rooftops of adjoining units to throw water on flames.“The unit was stocked up with thinner, paint and big rolls of plastic. Due to drums of thinner, 25 to 30 blasts took place and half of the building collapsed. Machinery kept in those sections was damaged. Fortunately, nobody was injured in the incident,” said a fireman. Sub-fire officer Aatish Rai said, “The major difficulty was the single entry and exit point. We, therefore, reached adjoining units to throw water on the flames, which consumed much time. Black smoke filled the premises and made the task challenging. The situation was brought under control around 8.30am.” Fire station officer SN Sharma said, “The unit lacked fire safety arrangements. We had to depend on nearby units for refilling fire tenders. Even as we used foam, it failed to abate the intense fire. Each of the 10 fire tenders made at least 10 rounds. Forty firemen and officials were deputed at the spot.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/major-fire-at-plastic-unit-in-focal-point-half-of-building-collapses/articleshow/77156805.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Locals oppose cremation of Covid victims in Beed||AURANGABAD: The last rites on two Covid-19 victims were delayed by almost 24 hours due to opposition by local residents and some councillors in two different areas, where the crematorius were situated, in Ambajogai taluka of Beed district. The authorities concerned finally performed the last rights of the deceased in another crematorium under tight police security on Friday morning. Amabjogai sub-divisional magistrate Shobha Jadhav said, “It was out of sheer ignorance that people opposed the cremation of people who succumbed to Covid-19 . We will make efforts to spread awareness in this regard. If such opposition persists, we are open to initiating action against people.” On Wednesday, a 60-year-old person from Sirsala and a 90-year old from Ambajogai succumbed to the contagion. The administration decided to perform the last rites on them on Thursday morning at the Borula-based crematorium. However, on seeing the ambulance bringing the bodies, some locals and councillors objected to the cremation, saying that they had already submitted a memorandum alleging negligence. “On June 30, the body of a Covid victim was cremated, but gloves and masks were left in the crematorium and the place was not disinfected properly,” they said. Some locals said they were not opposed to cremating the bodies of coronavirus victims, but are against the pallbearers leaving gloves and masks at the crematorium after performing the last rites. Seeing the situation going out of hand, the administration took the bodies to an open space in the Sarati hospital area for performing the last rites. However, a number of locals in that are too strongly objected to the cremation, saying that there are several houses in the neighbourhood and children use the space for playing. Left with no option, a temporary shed was erected in an area on Mandwa road, but the plan to cremate the bodies over there had to be changed due to the fear of rain and improper shed, said officials. The bodies were taken back to the Borula crematorium around 10 pm on Thursday, following which local residents thronged the place again. Fearing law and order problem, the bodies were finally moved to the Mukundraj road crematorium and the last rites performed in the wee hours of Friday in the presence of revenue, civic body and police authorities. When contacted, Ambajogai additional superintendent of police Swati Bhor said that the civic body and the revenue department are looking into the issue and that no complaint has been received as yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/locals-oppose-cremation-of-covid-victims-in-beed/articleshow/77154709.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Uncertainty over community prayers on Eid||Ludhiana: Even as Eid-ul-Zuha is barely a week away, uncertainty prevails over the community prayers offered on the occasion. Muslim community leaders feel that exact picture about the community prayers will become clear after their meeting with the deputy commissioner in a day or two.“We are going to hold a meeting with the deputy commissioner. However, we are exploring holding Eid prayers in small groups of community members, who will be sacrificing animals maintaining social distancing,” said Maulana Usman Ludhianvi, Naib Shahi Imam, Punjab.Muhammad Mustkeem, private sectary to the Shahi Imam, Punjab, Maulana Habib-ur-Rehman Saani Ludhianvi, said there would be no Eid function at Jama Masjid on the day and they would request people to celebrate Eid in a simple manner and make donations to the needy.“We are also asking community members to pray to Allah to rid us of this pandemic. Special prayers will be held on Bakr-Eid for the human beings, who are suffering from the disease. We will also pray for the peace and prosperity of the state and country,” said the private secretary to Shahi Imam.Many religious leaders are creating awareness among the masses to follow the government norms to prevent spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.“Eid is expected to be a low-key affair and on the day of festival, a small number of people will be praying at the mosque, like Eid-ul-Fitr. We are asking community members to follow social distancing and wear masks. We are asking people to donate as much as they can to the poor,” said Muhammad Motiur Rahman, Imam at Sunni Noori Jama Masjid, Dakha.Meanwhile, many community members have said that they would not celebrate Bakr-Eid even at their homes for safety concerns.“For us, safety is first priority and we can celebrate festivals in the coming times. We can celebrate Eid with family members and can say Eid prayers at home as we did on Eid-ul-Fitr. Normally, we would go to meet our relatives on Eid, but this time around, we are not doing so and will stay at home only,” said advocate Mohd Zahid of Barewal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/uncertainty-over-community-prayers-on-eid/articleshow/77156819.cms||Shariq Majeed
July 25, 2020||Nashik||E-governance centre in Nashik||Mumbai: India’s first e-Governance centre, set up at the district court to impart training and provide digital library and e-filing counters, will be inaugurated in Nashik on Saturday. Justice D Y Chadrachud, who is a Supreme Court judge and head of the e-Committee, will inaugurate the centre on at 10.30 am in virtual presence of Bombay high court chief justice Dipankar Datta. The idea behind the centre is that with the spread of the coronavirus the need to go virtual and paperless was never felt more immediate and vital. The facilities made available include six sound proof cabins from where lawyers can make submissions and examine witnesses in virtual court proceedings, over a dozen of e-filing counters, a training centre with a projector and a library stacked with the latest legal software. The centre will also be made available to the litigants as the motive is that no advocate or litigant is deprived of these facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/e-governance-centre-in-nashik/articleshow/77159867.cms||Swati Deshpande
July 25, 2020||Goa||Navy helps recover body of drowned ITI instructor||Poinguinim: After several days of searching, the highly decomposed body of Sawal aka Ravindra Dhuri was found on Friday trapped on rocks near Cabo de Rama. The Indian Navy helped recover the body of the 43-year-old ITI instructor, who had gone fishing at Saleri river in Agonda on Sunday. Some locals saw the body stuck on the rocks and informed the police. A team from the Cuncolim police station swung into action and requested for a helicopter. Minister of state for defence Shripad Naik asked the Indian Navy to assist the recovery operations and an Advanced Light Helicopter (ALH) of Indian Navy took off from INS Hansa, Dabolim, at 10.48am. A Navy microlight aircraft was also launched to aid in search and identification, said a senior naval official. “It was in an area inaccessible by ground vehicles. The locals in the area had wrapped the body in a shroud,” said the Indian Navy in a statement. A naval aircrew diver was lowered from helicopter to place the body in the recovery basket attached to the rescue hoist. The navy shifted the body to a location on the cliff which was accessible for vehicles. PSI Mahesh Naik is investigating under the supervision of PI Terron D’Costa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/navy-helps-recover-body-of-drowned-iti-instructor/articleshow/77159866.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Hyderabad||IRDAI allows insurers to offer group Arogya Sanjeevani policy||Hyderabad: After allowing health insurers to offer Corona Kavach as a standard group insurance policy, insurance regulator, Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI), on Friday allowed all general and standalone health insurers to offer Arogya Sanjeevani Policy as a group health insurance product to companies.  The regulator also said that Arogya Sanjeevani policy, whether in individual or group form, would also cover Covid-19. “Insurers are allowed to use the standard product name for the group policy after adding the word ‘group’ provided all terms and conditions as applicable to the standard individual policy remain the same except premium rate and specification on operation of group policy,” IRDAI said in a circular. It said that insurers are allowed to set their own minimum and maximum sum limits under this group policy, subject to the board approved underwriting policy and the mandate of offering sum insured in multiples of Rs 50,000 is not insisted for the group product. According to the regulator, the group policy is expected to provide protection to a large number of employees engaged in manufacturing, services, SMEs, MSMEs, logistics sector and migrant workers, catering to their medical needs. It said that the standard group policy is expected to be useful to various private and public establishments for covering the medical needs of their employees. Arogya Sanjeevani Policy is a standard health cover that was launched in April this year with an aim to increase the health insurance coverage in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/irdai-allows-insurers-to-offer-group-arogya-sanjeevani-policy/articleshow/77158416.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Hubballi||Dead man ‘swallows’ water, doctors confirm his death again at hospital||DHARWAD: A person declared dead by the doctors at KIMS in Hubballi was brought again to the district civil hospital in Dharwad on Friday as the family members, who were about to perform the last rites, believed that the man was alive. However, doctors at the district hospital, after examining confirmed that the man was dead. What kindled hopes among family members was that the dead man “swallowed” the water that was put into his mouth as part of the last rites. Iranna Kamble, 56, resident of Hebballi in Dharwad taluk, who was being treated for illness, died of cardiac arrest on Friday morning. The doctors had declared him dead and the family members had brought the mortal remains of Iranna to Hebballi for last rites. While they were giving bath as part of the ritual to the body, they felt that water put in his mouth was “swallowed”. Suspecting that the man was alive, family members brought him to the district civil hospital only to be confirmed by the doctors that he was dead. The body was taken back to the village for last rites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/dead-man-swallows-water-doctors-confirm-his-death-again-at-hospital/articleshow/77156809.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
July 25, 2020||Nashik||NMC hikes salary for physicians, other medical staff||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), in order to attract doctors and other medical staff for Covid-19, has hiked the remuneration packages for the posts of doctors and other medical staff between 30% and 100%. The civic body has started a mega recruitment drive to recruit doctors, physicians, anesthetists, psychologists, nurses, pharmacists, lab technicians, radiologists, counselors and other paramedical staff for Covid-19 hospitals and centres. Although the NMC has received responses from candidates for the posts of pharmacists, nurses, lab technicians and even microbiologists, but it is not getting any application for physicians, anesthetists and radiologists. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game took the decision to increase the remuneration following poor response for the posts of physicians. “We want 10 MD, 50 MBBS and 100 BAMS doctors along with other paramedical staff. We have also started walk-in interviews, but we have received poor response for these three types of doctors/physicians. Hence, we have hiked the remuneration for the physicians and other medical staff,” an NMC official said. “Now, MD physicians will be given Rs 3 lakh per month instead of previous remuneration of Rs 1.5 lakh per month, while MBBS and BAMS physicians will be given Rs 1 lakh and Rs 60,000 per month, instead of previous Rs 60,000 and Rs 40,000 per month,” he added. NMC gets full fledge medical superintendentMeanwhile, an additional health officer of Ahmednagar zilla parishad Bapusaheb Nagargoje has been appointed as medical superintendent of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) on deputation for a period of a year. The state government issued an order in this connection on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-hikes-salary-for-physicians-other-medical-staff/articleshow/77159859.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 25, 2020||Aurangabad||‘Antigen tests helped contain Covid spread’||Aurangabad: District collector Uday Chaudhary said that people’s active cooperation during the antigen testing has helped contain the spread of Covid-19 to some extent. Chaudhary was speaking at a meeting with the representatives of the political parties being attended among others by municipal administrator Astik Kumar Pandey on Thursday. “The mortality rate in the district has reduced to 3.8%. The district administration is taking efforts to bring it down to 2%,” said the collector. Chaudhary said that the administration was focussing on surveying a large number of residents and testing them for Covid-19 so that affected people could be identified early and be given proper treatment. “Critical patients are being primarily treated at the Government Medical College and Hospital. The recovery of critical patients too has increased.,” he said. Chaudhary further said that the antigen tests had come in handy for the administration. “In the next few days, the focus will be on the industrial areas of Waluj and Shendra. In the first phase, 20,000 antigen tests will be conducted. The CII has agreed to share the expenses toward the tests,” he said. Chaudhary asserted that private hospitals have to treat patients as per the rates fixed by the state government. The administration has also appointed an auditor to examine the private hospitals to know if they were overcharging.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/antigen-tests-helped-contain-covid-spread/articleshow/77154747.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Goa||Lobo: Rebuild Calangute police station on priority||Panaji: Science and technology minister Michael Lobo on Friday urged director general of police (DGP) Mukesh Kumar Meena to ensure that the reconstruction of the Calangute police station is taken up immediately. He also offered 5,000sq m of land belonging to the science and technology department for the project. Lobo even suggested to the DGP that the “overburdened” Porvorim police station be bifurcated and brought under the ambit of the Saligao police station. The Calangute and Saligao police stations are presently located in one building in Saligao. In a meeting with Meena, the minister said the barracks and the lock-up at the Calangute police station needed attention and that the station itself was in a bad condition. He said he was willing to speak to chief minister Pramod Sawant and convey his consent to transferring land from the department of science and technology for the new police station. Pointing out that the Porvorim police station is overburdened as it has to monitor a vast area, including the legislative assembly, government offices and the villages of Pilerne, Reis Magos, Verem and Betim, Lobo said, “I have told the DGP to shift some of the areas of the Porvorim police station to the Saligao police station for better policing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lobo-rebuild-calangute-police-station-on-priority/articleshow/77159861.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Mystery shrouds death of electrician in Daba||Times News Network Ludhiana: A 35-year-old man was found dead under mysterious circumstances in Sukhdev Nagar, Daba, early on Friday.On spotting the body at an under-construction house site, the area residents sounded the police.The victim has been identified as Munish Kumar, 35, an electrician of Azad Nagar.As his motorcycle was found near the body, police suspect he died after falling off the vehicle. Cops, however, are waiting for the autopsy report to ascertain the cause of death. Daba police station SHO inspector Pavitter Singh said, “The body bears injury marks on head and face. It is suspected that on Thursday night, Munish failed to notice the pit dug up for laying the foundation of the house and fell into it while returning home from work. We are awaiting the autopsy report, which is expected by Saturday, to know the cause of death.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mystery-shrouds-death-of-electrician-in-daba/articleshow/77156869.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Development Authority to seek your opinion to draft next master plan||NEW DELHI: Starting next month, Delhi Development Authority (DDA) will hold online public meetings and interactions to get feedback of citizens, RWAs, market associations, professional bodies, civil society groups, children and youth etc for preparing the Master Plan for Delhi (MPD) 2041. The authority is preparing MPD 2041 in collaboration with the National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA) and plans a massive public outreach, apart from focussed group discussions with domain experts. Public meetings are likely to be held online in August and September. “The master plan is for the people of Delhi and their voice is most important for us. We want their suggestions starting now and not when the draft is up for comments,” DDA vice-chairman Anurag Jain told TOI, adding that while the suggestions would finally be vetted by domain experts, it was better to incorporate their views right from the beginning. Jain said that the authority had launched an interactive microsite, Public Engagement Portal for MPD 2041, which was being developed incrementally. “We will get more ideas through this and collective wisdom is always better in maximising benefits,” Jain said. The portal will share information on the preparation of MPD 2041 and a number of visioning and perception surveys for feedback of citizens. Date and time of the public consultation meetings and events will also be shared on the portal to enable Delhiites to participate in the MPD 2041 preparation process. A review committee meeting was held on Thursday under the chairmanship of Jain to look into the progress on MPD 2041, with major focus on the public engagement strategy. DDA has been carrying out a comprehensive stakeholder engagement process since the beginning of last year. The authority said that in the first step, focussed group discussions with experts, professionals, civil society groups on specific aspects such as environment, health, pollution, heritage, mobility, renewable energy, gender issues and urban design creation of public spaces were held. DDA plans a wider outreach along with NIUA for extensive public engagement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dda-to-seek-your-opinion-to-draft-next-master-plan/articleshow/77158561.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 25, 2020||Nashik||No lockdown in Ahmednagar: Mushrif||Nashik: Ahmednagar district guardian minister Hassan Mushrif reviewed the Covid-19 situation on Friday and said that there will not be any re-introduction of lockdown. He reviewed the Covid-19 scenario of the district with the elected representatives and top district administration authorities. “The district will not have any more lockdown. Rather than lockdown, people should maintain Covid-19 safety protocols like wearing masks and maintaining physical distancing in public places,” he said. According to Mushrif, the festival season is already on with the month of Sharavan having started. Moreover, festivals like Raksha Bandhan, Barkri Eid, etc. are in the offing and any lockdown would be a problem for people. Ahmednagar district has so far registered 2,775 coronavirus cases, of which, 1,289 are currently active. The district has also reported 50 Covid casualties with the death rate at 1.80%. In addition, Ahmednagar district administration has launched ‘chase the virus’ mission aiming to step up the contact tracing and testing of Covid suspects. District collector Rahul Dwivedi has instructed the health authorities to go all out to ramp up contact tracing and testing to detect Covid-19 patients. According to authorities, the Covid lab at civil hospital would soon start testing of about 1,000 samples in a day as against 300 samples at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-lockdown-in-ahmednagar-mushrif/articleshow/77159873.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai: Ex-BARC engineer, teacher among four duped of Rs 10 lakh in digital payment scams||NAVI MUMBAI: Four residents of Navi Mumbai, including a former BARC engineer and a teacher, lost around Rs 10 lakh in digital payment frauds in the last three days. In three of the cases, the fraudsters, who posed as customer care representatives, asked the victims to download an app to gained remote access to their phones and made the transactions. In his complaint to Taloja police on Thursday, retired BARC mechanical engineer T Laxman Rao (63) said on Tuesday, he was unable to make a digital payment and ‘coincidentally’ received a call from ‘a customer care representative’ who claimed there was a system error. He connected Rao to his senior R K Sharma, who asked him download an app on his iPhone, reveal his debit card details and carried out two transactions of Rs 2.5 lakh. Then assuring a refund, he sent Rao a link and transferred over Rs 3 lakh in four transactions to a digital wallet in Noida. In the case filed at NRI Coastal police station, Nerul resident Bhagyashri Deshpande (35) said a ‘customer care agent’ made her download an app on her father’s phone on the pretext of KYC update and made five transactions totalling to Rs 1.5 lakh. New Panvel teacher Aarti Patil (34) and her engineer husband Sachin were duped of Rs 2.3 lakh in the same way by a Noida caller, Karan Srivastav, said Khandeshwar police. In the fourth case, Seawoods resident V Varghese (70) had found the customer care number online. He told NRI Coastal police that the agent on the pretext of entering a code in the ‘new payment’ option on the UPI app, made him enter multiple numbers, which were actually the amounts to be transferred to his e-wallet, totalling to Rs 65,997.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ex-barc-engineer-teacher-among-four-duped-of-10l-in-digital-payment-scams/articleshow/77159880.cms||George Mendonca
July 25, 2020||Mumbai||Hit hard by Covid lockdown, MSEB wants Rs 20,000 crore loan||MUMBAI: The state government will stand guarantee for a Rs 20,000 crore loan to be secured by the Maharashtra State Electricity Board (MSEB) and the subsidiaries under it. The MSEB is facing a resource crunch because of the four months of lockdown due to Covid-19. A government resolution (GR) issued by deputy secretary P P Badgeri proposed to secure the loan from the National Thermal Power Corporation, Power Finance Corporation, Rural Electrification Corporation, nationalised banks and leading financial institutions. The MSEB has not had need for such a large loan for years now. The GR said that the Covid-19 pandemic had had an adverse impact on the power sector and the daily average demand in the state had reduced from 23,000 MW to 16,000 MW as a large number of industries remained shut. “MSEB as well as generation, distribution and transmission corporations will have to face resource crunch in view of concessions granted by the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission granted to industrial and commercial sector as well as relief granted by the state government,” the GR said. An energy department official said that while several measures were discussed to tackle the deteriorating financial conditions, one option was to secure loans from leading financial firms as long as it came at a low rate and the state government stood guarantee. “The state cabinet on June 9 approved a proposal to stand guarantee, following which the MSEB and other companies will now approach the financial institutions for loans,” the official said. “The government has agreed to waive the guarantee fee.” The official said a high-level committee headed by the chief secretary and with secretaries of the departments of finance, planning and energy as members, had been set up to work out the terms and conditions for loan. “Before submitting the loan proposal, the department will have to specifically state as to how the loan will be refunded; in fact a time-bound action plan will have to be submitted to the government,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hit-hard-by-covid-lockdown-mseb-wants-20000cr-loan/articleshow/77159882.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Pune||Covid-19 cases speed past 3.5 lakh mark, deaths cross 13,000 in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: The state on Friday crossed the 3.5 lakh mark for Covid-19 cases, of which over 1.57 lakh were added in 20 days — on July 4 there were just over 2 lakh cases. The state also breached the 13,000 mark for Covid-19 deaths. It added 9,615 new cases, its third-highest addition in a day so far, taking the total cases so far to 3,57,117. It reported 278 deaths, with the toll resting at 13,132. In the city, the daily Covid statistics were in stark contrast with the galloping numbers in the state. On Friday, the state capital registered 1,057 cases and 54 deaths, taking the overall tally to 1,06,980 cases and the toll to 1,057 deaths. The new cases number was a slight dip over the past couple of days. In 20 days, the city added 23,790 cases, 15% of the state addition. BMC officials said the doubling rate had slowed to 64 days from 59 days last week and the weekly growth rate had dropped to 1.09% from 1.2% last week. Dharavi, which went from being the country's worst hot spot to one of the best public health success stories in the world, reported only six new cases on Friday. While Dharavi’s tally so far is 2,519, BMC officials said 2,141 people have been discharged. Of the 54 who died in the city, 37 had co-morbidities such as diabetes or hypertension. Six were below 40 years old, nine between 40 and 60, and 39 above 60. “The lockdown has had definite gains in Mumbai, but if we fail to maintain social distancing or sanitising practices, there is no way of predicting how long the illness will linger in the city,” infectious diseases specialist Dr Om Shrivastava, who is a member of the state task force on Covid, said. Experts said Covid-19 could continue till October. With the case fatality rate in some of the smaller cities like Solapur higher than the state average, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with the state task force and all district task forces. Pune division was the highest contributor to the daily case addition and fatalities, with 3,790 cases. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region was second with 2,310 cases. The MMR total stood at 1,10,337, or 3,357 more than in the city. The MMR registered 76 deaths while Pune division reported 86 deaths. Kalyan-Dombivli reported 342 patients and eight deaths, taking the tally to 17,731, including 289 deaths. In Thane, 285 new cases were reported, taking the tally to 17,144. Four new deaths took the toll to 571. In Navi Mumbai, there were 308 new cases and five deaths, taking the tally to 12,907 cases and toll to 370.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cases-speed-past-3-5l-mark-deaths-cross-13000-in-state/articleshow/77161182.cms||Bhavika Jain
July 25, 2020||Thane||Covid-19 cases speed past 3.5 lakh mark, deaths cross 13,000 in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: The state on Friday crossed the 3.5 lakh mark for Covid-19 cases, of which over 1.57 lakh were added in 20 days — on July 4 there were just over 2 lakh cases. The state also breached the 13,000 mark for Covid-19 deaths. It added 9,615 new cases, its third-highest addition in a day so far, taking the total cases so far to 3,57,117. It reported 278 deaths, with the toll resting at 13,132. In the city, the daily Covid statistics were in stark contrast with the galloping numbers in the state. On Friday, the state capital registered 1,057 cases and 54 deaths, taking the overall tally to 1,06,980 cases and the toll to 1,057 deaths. The new cases number was a slight dip over the past couple of days. In 20 days, the city added 23,790 cases, 15% of the state addition. BMC officials said the doubling rate had slowed to 64 days from 59 days last week and the weekly growth rate had dropped to 1.09% from 1.2% last week. Dharavi, which went from being the country's worst hot spot to one of the best public health success stories in the world, reported only six new cases on Friday. While Dharavi’s tally so far is 2,519, BMC officials said 2,141 people have been discharged. Of the 54 who died in the city, 37 had co-morbidities such as diabetes or hypertension. Six were below 40 years old, nine between 40 and 60, and 39 above 60. “The lockdown has had definite gains in Mumbai, but if we fail to maintain social distancing or sanitising practices, there is no way of predicting how long the illness will linger in the city,” infectious diseases specialist Dr Om Shrivastava, who is a member of the state task force on Covid, said. Experts said Covid-19 could continue till October. With the case fatality rate in some of the smaller cities like Solapur higher than the state average, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with the state task force and all district task forces. Pune division was the highest contributor to the daily case addition and fatalities, with 3,790 cases. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region was second with 2,310 cases. The MMR total stood at 1,10,337, or 3,357 more than in the city. The MMR registered 76 deaths while Pune division reported 86 deaths. Kalyan-Dombivli reported 342 patients and eight deaths, taking the tally to 17,731, including 289 deaths. In Thane, 285 new cases were reported, taking the tally to 17,144. Four new deaths took the toll to 571. In Navi Mumbai, there were 308 new cases and five deaths, taking the tally to 12,907 cases and toll to 370.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/cases-speed-past-3-5l-mark-deaths-cross-13000-in-state/articleshow/77161183.cms||Bhavika Jain
July 25, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 cases speed past 3.5 lakh mark, deaths cross 13,000 in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: The state on Friday crossed the 3.5 lakh mark for Covid-19 cases, of which over 1.57 lakh were added in 20 days — on July 4 there were just over 2 lakh cases. The state also breached the 13,000 mark for Covid-19 deaths. It added 9,615 new cases, its third-highest addition in a day so far, taking the total cases so far to 3,57,117. It reported 278 deaths, with the toll resting at 13,132. In the city, the daily Covid statistics were in stark contrast with the galloping numbers in the state. On Friday, the state capital registered 1,057 cases and 54 deaths, taking the overall tally to 1,06,980 cases and the toll to 1,057 deaths. The new cases number was a slight dip over the past couple of days. In 20 days, the city added 23,790 cases, 15% of the state addition. BMC officials said the doubling rate had slowed to 64 days from 59 days last week and the weekly growth rate had dropped to 1.09% from 1.2% last week. Dharavi, which went from being the country's worst hot spot to one of the best public health success stories in the world, reported only six new cases on Friday. While Dharavi’s tally so far is 2,519, BMC officials said 2,141 people have been discharged. Of the 54 who died in the city, 37 had co-morbidities such as diabetes or hypertension. Six were below 40 years old, nine between 40 and 60, and 39 above 60. “The lockdown has had definite gains in Mumbai, but if we fail to maintain social distancing or sanitising practices, there is no way of predicting how long the illness will linger in the city,” infectious diseases specialist Dr Om Shrivastava, who is a member of the state task force on Covid, said. Experts said Covid-19 could continue till October. With the case fatality rate in some of the smaller cities like Solapur higher than the state average, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with the state task force and all district task forces. Pune division was the highest contributor to the daily case addition and fatalities, with 3,790 cases. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region was second with 2,310 cases. The MMR total stood at 1,10,337, or 3,357 more than in the city. The MMR registered 76 deaths while Pune division reported 86 deaths. Kalyan-Dombivli reported 342 patients and eight deaths, taking the tally to 17,731, including 289 deaths. In Thane, 285 new cases were reported, taking the tally to 17,144. Four new deaths took the toll to 571. In Navi Mumbai, there were 308 new cases and five deaths, taking the tally to 12,907 cases and toll to 370.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cases-speed-past-3-5l-mark-deaths-cross-13000-in-state/articleshow/77159887.cms||Bhavika Jain
July 25, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Covid-19 cases speed past 3.5 lakh mark, deaths cross 13,000 in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: The state on Friday crossed the 3.5 lakh mark for Covid-19 cases, of which over 1.57 lakh were added in 20 days — on July 4 there were just over 2 lakh cases. The state also breached the 13,000 mark for Covid-19 deaths. It added 9,615 new cases, its third-highest addition in a day so far, taking the total cases so far to 3,57,117. It reported 278 deaths, with the toll resting at 13,132. In the city, the daily Covid statistics were in stark contrast with the galloping numbers in the state. On Friday, the state capital registered 1,057 cases and 54 deaths, taking the overall tally to 1,06,980 cases and the toll to 1,057 deaths. The new cases number was a slight dip over the past couple of days. In 20 days, the city added 23,790 cases, 15% of the state addition. BMC officials said the doubling rate had slowed to 64 days from 59 days last week and the weekly growth rate had dropped to 1.09% from 1.2% last week. Dharavi, which went from being the country's worst hot spot to one of the best public health success stories in the world, reported only six new cases on Friday. While Dharavi’s tally so far is 2,519, BMC officials said 2,141 people have been discharged. Of the 54 who died in the city, 37 had co-morbidities such as diabetes or hypertension. Six were below 40 years old, nine between 40 and 60, and 39 above 60. “The lockdown has had definite gains in Mumbai, but if we fail to maintain social distancing or sanitising practices, there is no way of predicting how long the illness will linger in the city,” infectious diseases specialist Dr Om Shrivastava, who is a member of the state task force on Covid, said. Experts said Covid-19 could continue till October. With the case fatality rate in some of the smaller cities like Solapur higher than the state average, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with the state task force and all district task forces. Pune division was the highest contributor to the daily case addition and fatalities, with 3,790 cases. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region was second with 2,310 cases. The MMR total stood at 1,10,337, or 3,357 more than in the city. The MMR registered 76 deaths while Pune division reported 86 deaths. Kalyan-Dombivli reported 342 patients and eight deaths, taking the tally to 17,731, including 289 deaths. In Thane, 285 new cases were reported, taking the tally to 17,144. Four new deaths took the toll to 571. In Navi Mumbai, there were 308 new cases and five deaths, taking the tally to 12,907 cases and toll to 370.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/cases-speed-past-3-5l-mark-deaths-cross-13000-in-state/articleshow/77161184.cms||Bhavika Jain
July 25, 2020||Mumbai||400 Indians fly home on US charity charters||MUMBAI: Among the expats returning to India due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the cost of flying back home is probably the highest for those from the US and Canada. The average fare on a repatriation flight is Rs 1 lakh. But about 400 Indians have been brought back home on two charter flights from the US, paid for with donations . The second, a Newark-Delhi flight, landed on Thursday night while the first was operated on July 4 between Chicago and Mumbai. “We wet-leased a United Airlines aircraft to repatriate more than 150 Indian citizens stranded in the US,” said Victor Abraham, chairman and CEO of the Dallas-based Skypass Group, which chartered the flights. The first charter, was operated with an aircraft wet-leased from Etihad. “Priority was given to seniors and families with young children who needed to return to India for urgent medical treatment or death emergencies and to those with expired US visas. Other Indian citizens eligible to travel, based on Indian embassy rules were also on the flight,” he said, adding that the flights were funded by the Skypass Foundation, their non-profit body, and other donors and companies, who wish to remain anonymous.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/400-indians-fly-home-on-us-charity-charters/articleshow/77159889.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Heavy showers likely today, Mumbai logs 75% of season’s average rain||MUMBAI: Mumbai and adjoining Thane and Navi Mumbai recorded a brief, but heavy spell of showers on Friday morning. The India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Santacruz observatory has received almost 75% of average rainfall for the season. On the flip side, rains continues to elude catchment areas of the seven lakes that supply drinking water to the city. The weather bureau has issued a yellow alert for Saturday indicating heavy rains at isolated places. On Friday morning, showers were reported from several areas, including Mulund, Borivali, Kurla and Goregaon. Around 9.30 am, the IMD also issued a nowcast warning forecasting intense spells of rain at isolated places in Mumbai and Raigad within the next three hours. KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general (western region), IMD said, “Clouds over Mumbai and nearby areas were observed with vertical development. Hence, intense showers were reported at isolated places.” In the last nine hours ending 5.30 am Friday, the Colaba observatory recorded 23.8 mm rainfall and Santacruz observatory 10.3 mm. IMD Santacruz has recorded 1,712.8mm rainfall since June 1. The average rain required in the four monsoon months is 2,260.4mm, which means the city has already received 75% of its rainfall. In the 24 hours ending 6 am July 24, water stocks in the lakes was 4.4 lakh million litres or 30% of the required stocks. In the corresponding period last year, the quantum was 7.9 lakh million litres or 54.4 % of the required stocks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/heavy-showers-likely-today-city-logs-75-of-seasons-average-rain/articleshow/77161236.cms||Richa Pinto
July 25, 2020||Thane||Heavy showers likely today, Mumbai logs 75% of season’s average rain||MUMBAI: Mumbai and adjoining Thane and Navi Mumbai recorded a brief, but heavy spell of showers on Friday morning. The India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Santacruz observatory has received almost 75% of average rainfall for the season. On the flip side, rains continues to elude catchment areas of the seven lakes that supply drinking water to the city. The weather bureau has issued a yellow alert for Saturday indicating heavy rains at isolated places. On Friday morning, showers were reported from several areas, including Mulund, Borivali, Kurla and Goregaon. Around 9.30 am, the IMD also issued a nowcast warning forecasting intense spells of rain at isolated places in Mumbai and Raigad within the next three hours. KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general (western region), IMD said, “Clouds over Mumbai and nearby areas were observed with vertical development. Hence, intense showers were reported at isolated places.” In the last nine hours ending 5.30 am Friday, the Colaba observatory recorded 23.8 mm rainfall and Santacruz observatory 10.3 mm. IMD Santacruz has recorded 1,712.8mm rainfall since June 1. The average rain required in the four monsoon months is 2,260.4mm, which means the city has already received 75% of its rainfall. In the 24 hours ending 6 am July 24, water stocks in the lakes was 4.4 lakh million litres or 30% of the required stocks. In the corresponding period last year, the quantum was 7.9 lakh million litres or 54.4 % of the required stocks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/heavy-showers-likely-today-city-logs-75-of-seasons-average-rain/articleshow/77161235.cms||Richa Pinto
July 25, 2020||Mumbai||Heavy showers likely today, Mumbai logs 75% of season’s average rain||MUMBAI: Mumbai and adjoining Thane and Navi Mumbai recorded a brief, but heavy spell of showers on Friday morning. The India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Santacruz observatory has received almost 75% of average rainfall for the season. On the flip side, rains continues to elude catchment areas of the seven lakes that supply drinking water to the city. The weather bureau has issued a yellow alert for Saturday indicating heavy rains at isolated places. On Friday morning, showers were reported from several areas, including Mulund, Borivali, Kurla and Goregaon. Around 9.30 am, the IMD also issued a nowcast warning forecasting intense spells of rain at isolated places in Mumbai and Raigad within the next three hours. KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general (western region), IMD said, “Clouds over Mumbai and nearby areas were observed with vertical development. Hence, intense showers were reported at isolated places.” In the last nine hours ending 5.30 am Friday, the Colaba observatory recorded 23.8 mm rainfall and Santacruz observatory 10.3 mm. IMD Santacruz has recorded 1,712.8mm rainfall since June 1. The average rain required in the four monsoon months is 2,260.4mm, which means the city has already received 75% of its rainfall. In the 24 hours ending 6 am July 24, water stocks in the lakes was 4.4 lakh million litres or 30% of the required stocks. In the corresponding period last year, the quantum was 7.9 lakh million litres or 54.4 % of the required stocks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/heavy-showers-likely-today-city-logs-75-of-seasons-average-rain/articleshow/77159890.cms||Richa Pinto
July 25, 2020||Hyderabad||AP SEC row casts shadow on Telangana poll body chief appointment||Hyderabad: The unending logjam over the AP SEC issue seems to have a cast a shadow on the appointment of Telangana state election commissioner. Official sources said the Telangana government is closely watching AP’s developments on the issue and also waiting for the Supreme Court verdict on the appointment of SEC. A senior government official said the apex court order may have an impact on Telangana SEC’s appointment. “The state government is also planning to reduce the tenure of SEC from five years to three years. As of now, senior IAS officers in the rank of principal secretary are appointed as SEC,” he said. V Nagi Reddy, who was Telangana SEC, had demitted the office in April this year and since then the post has been lying vacant. The AP government in April had promulgated an ordinance by making changes in the AP Panchayat Raj Act. Apart from reducing the term of SEC to three years from five years, it also appointed a retired high court judge V Kanagaraj replacing Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar. The amendment said only retired judges could be appointed as SEC. In Telangana, the SEC is appointed by the state government through a cabinet decision, which is sent to the governor for approval. In AP’s case, the AP high court said a SEC could be appointed only by the governor since SEC is a constitutional post. The AP government then moved the Supreme Court againsted the high court’s verdict. It is in this backdrop, the Telangana government is treading cautiously on appointing the new SEC to succeed Nagi Reddy, sources said. Following the delay in SEC appointment, over 650 vacancies in both local bodies and municipalities may not be filled soon, sources said. Secretary of the Telangana State Election Commission, who is presently managing the affairs, is also retiring this month-end. Sources in SEC said posts of 37 gram sarpanches, seven MPTC members and 595 ward members in gram panchayats were vacant due to various reasons. During the municipal elections this January, polls were not held for Mandamarri, Manuguru, Palwancha, Jadcherla, Nakrekal and Zaheerabad municipalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-sec-row-casts-shadow-on-t-poll-body-chief-appointment/articleshow/77159913.cms||Koride Mahesh
July 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Heritage activists launch ‘save OGH’ plea||Hyderabad: A petition to save the Osmania General Hospital was launched on Friday. Started on change.org by a group of concerned citizens, the petition was addressed to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and health minister Eatala Rajender. The petition ‘Save OGH-Protect Heritage and Health’ cites an article published in TOI quoting the health minister as saying that the building would be razed. Within a few hours of kicking off the campaign, 2,400 people signed the petition. “We urge the government to build a new hospital behind the heritage structure for Hyderabad’s much-needed healthcare infrastructure. Preserve the heritage building in one acre and utilise the remaining 25 acre campus by removing all the non-heritage structures to build a world-class hospital for the citizens of Hyderabad,” the petition said. The petition said the Heritage Conservation Committee had cleared the proposal of the government for construction of a new block behind the heritage building. Speaking to TOI, historian Sajjad Shahid said: “Heritage activists and historians are not against the construction of a new building, but the current building must not be razed.” One of the key persons behind the petition, Iqbal Jaweed, an alumna of OGH, said the heritage building gives the entire property its sanctity. “Once it is demolished, there will be no protection for the 25-acre premises,” he said. “The government should conduct a public hearing and a campaign to enable people voice their opinions on the issue,” they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/heritage-activists-launch-save-ogh-plea/articleshow/77158498.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Bhubaneswar||From Bihar to B’luru, researchers look for ‘sound’ of Covid||Researchers involved in two ongoing projects, one of which involves the governments of Odisha and Bihar, are spending hours collecting sounds of people coughing. Their aim is simple: to use artificial intelligence (AI) to determine if the coronavirus can be ‘heard’ in a person’s cough, and to then develop a tool that can place individuals on a Covid-19 risk scale by checking for these acoustic markers. With ICMR’s go-ahead, both projects are using two methods to collect cough sounds — through crowdsourcing, in which anybody can record his/her cough and upload it on the projects’ servers; and through focused cough sound collection from hospitals and testing centres. The ‘Cough against Covid’ launched by Mumbai-based non-profit, Wadhwani Institute for Artificial Intelligence, encourages people — Covid patients, those negative and those not tested — to ‘donate a cough’ by recording it on a phone. Supported by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the campaign aims to create a large dataset of around 30,000 cough sounds from participants in India and abroad. AI has been deployed to look for signs that can distinguish a Covid cough from other coughs. The project aims to create an open-source cough sound analysis tool that people can use — through an app or a bot — to self-screen. “We hope this can amplify testing capacity and bring limited tests to people who need them the most,” said Rahul Panicker, chief research and innovation officer at the non-profit. To ensure development of a robust AI tool, the backend dataset is being strengthened by Wadhwani AI (WAI) through collection of patient cough sounds at facilities in Bihar and Odisha. These activities are being undertaken by state health departments in collaboration with the Norway-India Partnership Initiative (NIPI), a bilateral health sector initiative of the Indian and Norwegian governments. “The Bihar and Odisha governments are working with NIPI and the non-profit to conduct research around developing AI tool for triaging suspect Covid-19 cases using cough sound acoustics. This, if found useful, can possibly be integrated with the Aarogya Setu app,” said a senior official related with the project. “At designated sites, suspected patients are being requested by facility health staff to provide three ‘solicited’ cough sound samples which further get labelled upon availability of the Covid test results,” the official added. Working on a similar hypothesis is IISc Bengaluru. The institute’s ‘Coswara’ project also aims to bring out an AI-based cough sound analysis tool by October. ‘Coswara’ too is crowdsourcing data by asking healthy and Covid-afflicted persons to ‘donate a cough’. Till July 1, it had collected 1,100 cough sounds; of them, around 20 are of Covid patients. “Once we get to around 150 coughs from Covid patients, we will deploy mathematical modelling to come up with an initial screening tool, which we will present to ICMR,” said project member Sriram Ganapathy of IISc’s electrical engineering department. IISc, too, is looking to improve its crowdsourced data by collecting more cough sounds from certified Covid patients. “Our proposal is being reviewed by boards of hospitals in Mumbai and Bengaluru and we are also handing out fliers outlining our aims. We hope patients, especially those at home, will send us their cough sound,” said Ganapathy. Both teams stressed data security was paramount and that they are aiming to design a screening tool, not a diagnostic one. Doctors TOI spoke to said the research looked promising but the final tool would need to be very sophisticated. “The Covid cough is not as unique as, say, the whooping cough of Pertussis. So, it might be difficult to screen for SARS-CoV-2 using cough sound alone,” was the note of caution struck by Prasanta R Mohapatra, HOD of pulmonary medicine at AIIMS Bhubaneswar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/from-bihar-to-bluru-researchers-look-for-sound-of-covid/articleshow/77114927.cms||Amava Bhattacharya
July 25, 2020||Gurgaon||Long arm of drug supply: Police look for mole, find it’s the deputy jailer||Gurgaon: A deputy jail superintendent was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly running a drugs and SIM card supply racket at Bhondsi jail, one of the largest prisons in the state where he was posted as deputy jailer. Dharambir Chautala (45) had been strangely brought back to Bhondsi jail in 2018 after leaving under a cloud in 2017; he was transferred to Panchkula after a large number of mobile phones were seized from within the prison premises. Police said Chautala was caught red-handed receiving a packet of drugs and SIM cards from a peddler in his quarters on the jail premises on Wednesday. The deputy jailer allegedly had in his possession 250 grams of charas and 11 4G SIM cards. The jail, which houses 815 convicts among its 2,224 inmates, has been notoriously pliant and officials have been arrested on earlier occasions for helping supply mobiles, SIMs and even drugs. This is the first time, though, that an officer at the level of deputy jailer has been found to be involved. Ravi alias Goldy, the one allegedly supplying the drugs to Chautala, was also arrested and charged under provisions of the Narcotic Drugs & Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Sources said Chautala made a killing supplying drugs and SIM cards to the inmates at very high rates. For instance, a 4G SIM card would be sold for Rs 20,000 while a gram of charas would cost an inmate Rs 4,000. Since normal phone calls are easy to track, inmates use 4G SIMs to make calls via WhatsApp also download various apps from the internet. There have often been allegations that a number of gangsters and criminals lodged inside Bhondsi jail use mobile phones to issue extortion threats to businessmen and run their gangs from inside the prison. Jammers installed inside the jail are hardly of any use. These old devices have the capacity to block calls only from 2G SIMs. Although police have registered several cases related to threat calls from gangsters lodged in jail, the practice has continued unhindered. Kaushal, one of Gurgaon’s most wanted gangsters, had told investigators after his arrest last year that a number of his gang members lodged in Bhondsi jail were in contact with him through WhatsApp calls. Even plans for murders were conceived inside the jail, he had admitted. Gurgaon police commissioner KK Rao said on Thursday that officers in the jail had been under scrutiny. “We had been keeping watch. A deputy jail superintendent was arrested along with a drug peddler. They were caught with 250 grams of charas and 11 SIM cards,” Rao said. ACP (crime) Preet Pal Sangwan said the police had received a tipoff about a recent supply of drugs and SIM cards inside the jail and were working on the information for the past two weeks. “We had information that drugs would be supplied in the jail on Wednesday night. We followed our lead and arrested the jail officer from inside his quarters along with the drug peddler,” he said. Chautala stays in the jail quarters with his family. Officers said they were trying to find out if more officials were involved in the racket. “We are trying to find out the source of the drugs and if other people are involved in supplying them,” the ACP said. Ravi, the peddler, is from Lucknow and stays in a rented house in Wazirabad. In December last year, jail warden Phool Mohammad was booked under the NDPS Act at Bhondsi police station along with two others. Phool had come out of the jail on his bike and met Mohit (21) and Bablu (26) in Bhondsi to receive a packet of drugs when he was caught. Police then believed that Phool was not alone and was acting on behalf of some senior officers. “We had been suspecting the involvement of more jail officials. Without them, drugs and phones can’t reach the criminals in prison,” Rao said. Jail superintendent Harvinder Singh, who joined just two weeks ago, said he was too new to comment on the alleged nexus between officials and criminals in supplying drugs inside Bhondsi jail. Chautala was posted in Bhondsi jail from 2015 to 2017 before being transferred. “Chautala was also suspended in the past in some case. We are trying to find out what that case was suspended,” ACP Sangwan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/long-arm-of-drug-supply-police-look-for-mole-find-its-the-deputy-jailer/articleshow/77136811.cms||Bagish Jha
July 25, 2020||Nashik||4-year-old female leopard falls into well, rescued after two hours||Nashik: A four-year-old female leopard was rescued by forest officials on Friday after some villagers informed them that the big cat had fallen into a well in Chadegaon village near the Nashik Road area of the city. According to officials, the leopard may have slipped into the well while searching for prey. When the villagers heard the cries of the big cat, they immediately informed the forest officials who rushed to the spot soon after. They began the rescue operation immediately. It took almost two hours for the forest authorities to bring the leopard back to safety. The big cat was later trapped in a cage and was sent for medical check-up. “We immediately conducted a medical check-up of the big cat and found her to be physically fit. We will soon release the animal after the necessary official procedure is conducted,” said forest officials. There have been several incidents of leopard sightings in Chadegaon, Deolali, Donwade, Babhaleshwar and Samangaon village belt in the last three months. The forest department has also installed 17 cages at various places in Donwade, Babhaleshwar and Samangaon village belts due to the presence of leopards in these areas. This is the fifth leopard rescued by forest officials during the last 24 days in Niphad and Nashik talukas of the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/4-year-old-female-leopard-falls-into-well-rescued-after-two-hours/articleshow/77159910.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Tribals oppose Haritha Haram on Podu land||Hyderabad: The Haritha Haram programme in Rajanna Sircilla district met with stiff resistance from tribals in Konaraopet mandal. The tribals claimed that the land was podu land given to them for cultivation. Forest officials, however, said that it was a reserve forest area and tribals had no right to cultivate there. With several women from the tribal thandas descending on the place and obstructing the forest officials from planting the saplings, local police’s help was sought. The cops succeeded in dispersing the tribals, but not before facing resistance for nearly two hours. “The land is a reserve forest land,” district forest officer (DFO) Asha Rani told TOI. For the last couple of weeks, the tribals had been trying to lay claim to the place. On one occasion, they had also assaulted a forest official and the incident was reported to police. In the forest reserve land that was reclaimed, nearly 4,000 saplings were planted by the officials on Friday. The tribals began to raise cotton crop in the extent of land that was reclaimed by the officials. Last year, 45 acres of forest land was reclaimed. No cases, however, were filed against those who resisted the officials on Friday. “We have identified encroached forest land and will reclaim them,” Asha Rani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tribals-oppose-haritha-haram-on-podu-land/articleshow/77159899.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 25, 2020||Mumbai||4,000 in Navi Mumbai take antigen tests, 22% are positive||NAVI MUMBAI: Of 4,180 suspects who were subjected to rapid antigen tests in Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation area in a week, 22% (928 persons) tested positive for Covid-19 till July 24. Most symptomatic cases referred to for antigen tests were identified from door-to-door screening at 42 hotspots in the city. NMMC had launched a rapid antigen testing drive from four centres last week after flak for not doing enough to contain rising cases as far as testing and tracing are concerned. Two more centres were set-up on Thursday. The drive was intensified on Friday. While NMMC area reported 308 fresh Covid-19 cases and five deaths on Friday, taking the total to 12,907 and 370, PCMC area too reported 158 cases and six deaths, taking the total to 5,579 and 141.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/4k-in-navi-mum-take-antigen-tests-22-are-ve/articleshow/77158861.cms||B B Nayak
July 25, 2020||Kolkata||Business takes a hit at market hubs||Kolkata: The price may remain high in all city markets till mid next week because of the break in supply chain due to the bi-weekly lockdown. “After the long harsh shutdown, we just started gaining momentum when these bi-weekly restrictions changed things. This will affect us badly. Apart from hitting the business hard, the supply chain, too, is getting battered,” said SS Hogg Market Traders Association joint secretary Uday Sahu. The price of fish coming in from other states will remain especially high because they will not start rolling in before Monday. Fearing they will not get offloaded at wholesale markets because of staff crunch, transports carrying fish and prawns have not rolled in to the city. Vegetable sellers in almost every market said that no matter what the state tries through its own supply lines, the price of potatoes will not be controlled. “How will the government feed such a huge market? The staggered lockdown announcement saw the price of potatoes jump Rs 5 every kilo now,” said Tarun Dey, a vegetable seller at Manicktala Market. Onions have also started rotting because of the breaks in between and lack of storage facilities. Hence, the storages have released these into the market to clear up stocks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/business-takes-a-hit-at-market-hubs/articleshow/77158519.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Kolkata||Fare hike key to survival: Kolkata private bus operators||KOLKATA: Back-to-back lockdowns, restrictions in containment zones and gradual rise of diesel price have left the bus operators crippled. “We are in a very bad shape. If we run buses, we will bleed. If we don’t run buses, our workers will starve. Moreover, majority of private bus operators have gone into moribund state,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay, general secretary, Joint Council of Bus Syndicates. On Friday, only 20% buses plied on city roads. “Buses run in an ecosystem where it’s inter-dependent with trains and ferry services. If train dose not move, bus can never have enough passengers. Howrah station alone caters to 13 lakh passengers a day, Sealdah caters to another 9 lakh and Metro supports 7 lakh. So, we are losing huge number of passengers,” said Pradip Narayan Basu, joint secretary, West Bengal Bus and Mini Bus Owners’ Association Operators said there is no other alternative to fare revision. If the government revises fare, the transport system will survive, said operators. Not only buses, even cabs are badly hit. “Most of us cannot recover the operating cost even after running eight hours a day,” said Sanjib Roy of Bengal Taxi Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fare-hike-key-to-survival-private-bus-operators/articleshow/77158489.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Nashik||Covid patient booked on suicide charge||Nashik: Malegaon police has booked a 54-year-old Covid-19 patient on the charges of attempt to suicide after he was found in a hospital’s bathroom with self-inflicted injuries. The patient, a resident of Nandgaon taluka’s Manmad, tested positive for Covid-19 on July 20. Thereafter, he was admitted to the Faran hospital. At around 4.15 pm, the patient went to the bathroom of the hospital and, in a fit of rage, he broke the windowpane and inflected injuries upon himself with the broken piece of glasses. Hospital staff noticed injuries on his stomach and neck, following which they calmed him down and toook him to the ward where he was admitted. Later, the hospital authorities informed police who registered an offence against the patient under Section 309 (attempt to commit suicide) of the IPC. The patient’s condition is said to be stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-patient-booked-on-suicide-charge/articleshow/77159893.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Deferring of exams will hit higher education standards, says UGC||MUMBAI: University Grants Commission (UGC) told Bombay high court a Maharashtra government decision to defer final year/terminal semester exams for graduate students without holding exams will affect standards of higher education in the country. UGC replied to a PIL that challenged the state’s June 19 decision to confer degrees to over 10 lakh undergraduate and post-graduate students of traditional and professional courses by giving average marks based on past performance or to hold exams later. UGC’s July 23 affidavit, by its education officer Dr Nikhil Kumar, said universities/ institutions were obligated to conduct terminal semester/final year exams by September-end. It said the Maharashtra government decision was contrary to its July 6 revised guidelines. It was “a matter directly affecting standards of higher education in the country” and “will be an encroachment on legislative field of coordinating and determining standards of higher education which is exclusively reserved for Parliament”. UGC said the state, by taking the decision under Disaster Management Act, could not override statutory provisions of another special act (UGC Act), making it nugatory. It said in view of the evolving situation of the pandemic, UGC revised guidelines provided adequate time till September-end to conduct exams by following protocols and guidelines and flexible modes of online, offline and a blend of both exams. It provided for conduct of special exams as and when feasible so that students are not inconvenienced or at a disadvantage. “UGC issued such guidelines to protect the academic future of students across the country, which will be irreparably damaged if final year/terminal semester exams are not held, keeping in mind their health and safety.” A bench headed by Chief Justice Dipankar Datta will hear the PIL and pleas for and against exams on July 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/deferring-of-exams-will-hit-higher-edu-standards-says-ugc/articleshow/77159892.cms||Rosy Sequeira
July 25, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Four get life terms for hacking to death two brothers in 2012||MUMBAI: A sessions court on Friday convicted and sentenced four men to life imprisonment for hacking to death two brothers at their Saki Naka home in the presence of their family after a tiff over parking in 2012. Judge R M Sadrani found Rakesh Sharma, Abhilesh Rai, Brijesh Rai and Sunil Sharma guilty, but Sunita Sharma, the only accused out on bail, was acquitted on all charges. The four were produced for the hearing via a video-conference from Arthur Road jail, where they have been since their arrests in 2012. Public prosecutor Ashwini Rayakar examined 27 witnesses, including the parents of the victims, Avinash Singh (26) and Ashish (22), who witnessed the attack. Their father Jitendra suffered injuries. The accused were also found guilty of his attempted murder. Another eye-witness was a man who worked for the Singhs and had come to the house to give them some money on May 29, 2012. An FIR was registered with Saki Naka police on May 30, 2012. A few days before the murder, the victims’ uncle had parked his auto and a dumper under the Metro bridge on Andheri-Kurla Link Road. This upset Rakesh, as he and others were allegedly illegally charging for parking. When the Singhs refused to remove the vehicles they were allegedly attacked and a vehicle was vandalised. The Singhs complained to police, after which Rakesh, Sunil and another person were arrested. But when granted bail on May 29, the accused went to the victims’ house with choppers. The FIR said the family was watching TV on the first floor of their premises at 10.45pm. They allegedly barged in and attacked the family. Police said Rakesh assaulted Ashish and he died in the house. The accused then chased Avinash and assaulted him with a chopper outside. The parents were also injured. Both brothers were rushed to hospital but succumbed. The mother, Chandralekha’s statement was recorded. Rakesh and Sunita, who police had claimed were also at the spot, were arrested. The other accused who had fled were subsequently caught. The accused denied the charges and claimed they were falsely implicated due to prior enmity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/4-get-life-terms-for-hacking-to-death-2-brothers-in-2012/articleshow/77159896.cms||Rebecca Samervel
July 25, 2020||Mumbai||Monsoon double whammy: Covid with malaria and leptospirosis in Mumbai||MUMBAI: City doctors have begun seeing the worrisome combination of Covid with rain-related ailments such as dengue, malaria and leptospirosis. All tertiary medical colleges have seen lepto-Covid, dengue-Covid and malaria-Covid cases in the past few weeks, though there haven’t been many surprises and patients seem to be recovering with standard line of care. Parel’s KEM Hospital has documented one case of dengue along with Covid. Dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh said the patient is clinically stable and hasn’t suffered any unusual manifestations due to the dual diseases. Fever is the common symptom in such patients among others. “The good thing is the doctors are able to differentiate between the diseases,” he said, adding patients are tested for Covid even if they come with positive reports or typical symptoms of monsoon diseases. BYL Nair Hospital on Friday admitted one of its first malaria cases with Covid infection. The patient was detected with malaria vivax and shifted to Nair after he tested positive for Covid. “The only difference so far is that the patient has to have more antibiotics and other medications. In a non-Covid era, a malaria patient with no complications would have been treated on an OPD basis and sent home, but now we may have to observe the patient for a few days to see if they develops any complications related to either of the diseases,” said Dr Rakesh Bhadade from the medicine department. The civic-run Sion Hospital has seen around four cases with the combinations. “We have seen lepto-Covid and malaria-Covid. The patients are being treated with standard line of care and there haven’t been any complications,” said Dr ND Karnik, head of medicine. He said much before Covid made an appearance in the city, doctors had discussed how they would deal with the situation if the pandemic virus presented with seasonal diseases. “We know what monsoon diseases look like. If the patient also has ground glass syndrome (lung opacity on a scan) and breathlessness in addition, we strongly suspect Covid,” he said. “The rapid antigen test that can deliver a Covid positive result within 30 minutes is handy now that the fever clinics are swelling with patients,” said Dr Gaurav Lodha, a medicine resident from Sion. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state task force said Mumbai cannot drop its guard for the very reasons that monsoon diseases could complicate things. “Compared to last year, we don’t have many dengue cases, but we must be vigilant,” he said. About 328 cases of malaria were reported in June, while one of leptospirosis and four confirmed dengue cases have been reported this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/monsoon-double-whammy-covid-with-malaria-lepto/articleshow/77159903.cms||Sumitra Debroy
July 25, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC begins testing staff with rapid antigen kits||MUMBAI: The BMC on Friday began testing its frontline workers with rapid antigen test kits. These workers have been on the forefront of the Covid-19 battle since March. Till date, 2,332 civic staffers have tested positive. Of these, 1,202 have recovered, and 109 have succumbed to the infection. Looking at these numbers, the need for rapid antigen testing for staff was felt even more. These tests can provide a diagnosis in 15-30 minutes. On Friday, antigen tests were conducted in five civic wards—F North (Wadala, Matunga and Sion), P North (Malad), H East (Bandra east, Kalina, Vakola), R South (Kandivali), S (Bhandup). Police staff was also tested in a few areas. An official said essential service workers, who worked through lockdown, will be tested on a priority basis. Namely, those working with solid waste management, water works and maintenance department. The civic body appointed six private labs to conduct testing—SRL, Infexan, Suburban, Krishna, LifeCare and Thyrocare. The labs were asked to form ten teams each to ensure testing of civic staff, and of citizens who visit civic clinics. Officials said they are aiming at an antigen testing capacity of around 2,500 per day, collectively by the six labs. The lab teams will be assigned to civic dispensaries and civic-run hospitals, and solid waste chowkies. The BMC extended the scope of testing to civic ward-level staff only recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-begins-testing-staff-with-rapid-antigen-kits/articleshow/77159905.cms||Richa Pinto
July 25, 2020||Kolkata||Danseuse Amala Shankar passes away in Kol at 101||Kolkata: Veteran danseuse Amala Shankar passed away in Kolkata on Friday. She was 101. She had a long and successful career that began as an 11-year-old when she went to Paris and did not finish until she was 92, when she took part in her final dance piece called ‘Missing You’. Amala died of cardiac arrest in her sleep at home. Wife of legendary dancer-choreographer Uday Shankar, mother of late musician Ananda Shankar and danseuse-actress Mamata Shankar, mother-in-law of Tanusree Shankar and sister-in-law of sitarist Pt Ravi Shankar, Amala was born on June 27, 1919, in Jessore, Bangladesh. She was introduced to Uday Shankar on a trip to Paris at the age of 11. “I remember days when I would go over to their house, play with Robu (Pt Ravi Shankar) and even changed into a sari from my frock. Back then, I used to address him (Uday Shankar) as Borda. He was 19 years elder to me,” she would say. On that trip, Uday Shankar asked her to emote a few dancing steps. Together, they toured Europe. But she realized that dance was her calling only after graduation. Without any professional training, she excelled and would get invited to perform at conferences attended by greats like Pt Shambhu Maharaj and Ustad Bade Ghulam Ali Khan. Subsequently, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose watched her performance where Pt Jnan Prakash Ghosh was on the tabla and Dilip Roy on the vocals. Impressed, Netaji requested Amala’s father to send her to Uday Shankar’s dance centre in Almora that saw the likes of Simkie, Zohra Sehgal and Guru Dutt in attendance. But romance with her guru didn’t happen overnight. Once when she saw him perform as Kartik in Kolkata, Amala declared that “this is the man in my life”. Much later, on the night of December 8, 1939, Uday Shankar told her about his decision to get married. “Don’t you want to know the name of the girl?” he asked, adding: “Her name is Amala”. They tied the knot in 1942. In 1948, she played the lead in Uday Shankar’s “Kalpana”. Though “Kalpana” flopped, Satyajit Ray was rumoured to have watched it 11 times. “It was one of my father’s favourite films and he loved her dance pieces a lot,” remembered director Sandip Ray. In 2012, when the restored film was screened at the Cannes Classic Section 81 years after it was first screened there, 93-year-old Amala said from stage: “I am the youngest heroine here”. Not just dance and acting, director Goutam Ghose remembered how she painted with her nails and fingers on glass slides. In 2013, these works were on display at a solo exhibition titled Nabajiban. At 90, she had asked actor-director Aparna Sen to direct a film where she would dance one last time! As the state bade farewell to her with gun salute, she was remembered for having lived a full life. “She wanted a peaceful death and that’s how it happened,” said Mamata Shankar. Her student, theatre personality and thespian Soumitra Chatterjee’s daughter, Poulami Bose, said, “She has been the epitome of grace. I received her guidance for four years.” Entrepreneur Sanjiv Goenka echoed sentiments of many while saying: “Her passing away marks the end of an era. India has lost a great artist.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/danseuse-amala-shankar-passes-away-in-kol-at-101/articleshow/77158595.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
July 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: TRS leaders to donate 100 mobile Covid testing labs||HYDERABAD: As many as 100 mobile Covid-19 testing laboratories (ambulances) will be pressed into service in all Telangana districts. Minister KT Rama Rao, on his birthday, announced that he would donate six mobile testing ambulances to hospitals in various districts. This was conveyed to health minister Eatala Rajender, who was at Pragati Bhavan on Friday to greet KTR on his birthday. Following KTR’s announcement, many TRS leaders also decided to donate 100 mobile testing vehicles to hospitals. Health department officials said the ambulances are useful in the rural areas where there are no testing facilities and since they have oxygen cylinders and ventilators, the vehicles would be useful during emergencies. Earlier in the day, TRS leaders organised several programmes on the occasion of the 44th birthday of KTR. Minister V Srinivas Goud launched a programme for issuing online identification cards to artistes and ‘TApp’ for the department of culture services and deputy speaker T Padma Rao sponsored a wheelchair to a physically-challenged person. Minister Ch Malla Reddy distributed textbooks to students at Peerzadiguda municipality and organised a blood donation camp where helmets were distributed to the blood donors. While minister V Prashanth Reddy gifted ‘The Alchemist’ to KTR, his fan U Srinivas gifted a painting which had all his achievements as a leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-netas-to-donate-100-mobile-testing-labs/articleshow/77159916.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Water above 1.5ft? You’ll be booked for crossing Minto Bridge||NEW DELHI: A few days after a 56-year-old man drowned in the waterlogged Minto Bridge underpass following a heavy downpour, Delhi government has decided to barricade roads leading to it if the water level rises to around 1.5 feet and file an FIR against anyone trying to violate the restriction. In an office memorandum issued with the approval of deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, the executive engineer (electrical) of the public works department, who is in charge of maintenance of the area, will not only have to ensure regular pumping under the bridge but also monitor the water situation round the clock during the rainy season so that no waterlogging takes place. If the water level in the area rises above 45cm — about 1.5 feet — despite all preventive measures, PWD officials have been asked to ensure proper barricading of the roads leading to the underpass in coordination with Delhi Police to ensure that no vehicle or person can proceed under the bridge, the memorandum stated. If the level rises further, higher authorities will have to be informed immediately. Kundan, from Pithoragarh in Uttarakhand, drowned while trying to manoeuvre his vehicle out of the waterlogged underpass on Minto Road near Connaught Place on Sunday morning. He sat on the roof of the Tata Ace mini-truck to save himself, but the rising water level claimed his life. The executive engineer (civil and electrical) has been made “personally responsible” for ensuring timely coordination among various agencies responsible to prevent waterlogging at this “critical” underpass. He has been asked to ensure regular coordination at the local level as services from the local body concerned and Delhi Police may be required. However, the waterlogging at Minto Road was hardly a surprise, and was almost a repeat of what has been seen since the 1990s. A DTC bus and another vehicle also got submerged in the underpass barely an hour after the downpur. The fire department used a ladder to rescue three people from these two vehicles. Watch Delhi: Dead body found near submerged bus under Minto Bridge||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/water-above-1-5ft-youll-be-booked-for-crossing-minto-bridge/articleshow/77159921.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Suspected Covid-19 patient ends life||Kolhapur: A farmer from Lingnur village in Gadhinglaj tehsil of Kolhapur district, a suspected patient of Covid-19, committed suicide by hanging himself at a private hospital on Friday The incident came to the light when the hospital staff began to search for the man to inform him that his throat swab sample test for Covid-19 was negative. His body was found hanging in the washroom of the hospital where he was admitted. “The deceased, Sudhir Yesare, got admitted to the private hospital after a man from his village tested positive for Covid-19. He was one of the close contact of the positive patient due to which local officials had asked him to stay under quarantine in the private hospital,” a police offcier said. “The administration had arranged a vehicle for dropping all those people who had tested negative for Covid-19 and Yesare was missing. Later, his body was found in the washroom. He had used his trouser and shirt as a rope,” he added. Meanwhile, the district administration, in a press statement, has said that an inquiry into the incident revealed that Yesare had health issues owing to which he had been admitted to various hospitals in the past. M V Athni, medical officer of Gadhinglaj tehsil, said that Yesare ended his life by hanging himself between 1.30 pm and 2 pm. Yesare’s body was handed over to his family after conducting an autopsy. Gadhinglaj police have registered a case as accidental death into the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/suspected-covid-19-patient-ends-life/articleshow/77159915.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Rachakonda police to help Covid-19 patients||Hyderabad: As a number of Covid-19 patients are facing discrimination and require help, Rachakonda police commissioner made arrangements to bail them out of this challenging situation. The CP plans to initiate action against those who ill-treat patients undergoing treatment in home or institutional quarantine. “Whenever you find a coronavirus patient in your neighbourhood or workplace, who are taken for quarantine or isolation centre in an ambulance, I request not take video or pictures. Instead, one should discourage the person who takes videos or pictures,” urged Rachakonda CP, Mahesh Bhagwat. At a press conference on Friday, the senior police officer urged citizens not to embarrass the positive patients, instead, wish them good luck for speedy recovery. “The person is just unwell, he is not a criminal. He will get cured but the memory of how people treated him will stay with him forever,” said the officer. In case of an emergency, people can contact Rachakonda police on 9490617111.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rachakonda-police-to-help-covid-19-patients/articleshow/77158541.cms||---
July 25, 2020||India||PM Modi to begin Ram temple construction at 12.30pm, August 5||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will perform the groundbreaking ceremony for construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya at 12.30pm on August 5, a schedule finalised as per suggestions made by a battery of astrologers, reports Akhilesh Singh. While top BJP leaders will be in attendance, the VHP on Friday sent soil collected from 11 religious places from different parts of the country to Ayodhya to be used in the ceremony. Although Shankaracharya Swami Swaroopanand of Jyotishpeeth has questioned the timing of the ceremony, saying it was not advisable as per the Hindu ‘panchang’ (calendar), VHP working president Alok Kumar said the date and time was finalised after consultation with reputed priests and astrologers from Varanasi and Ayodhya. Oneof the members of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra trust, Swami Govinddev Giriji Maharaj of Pune, took the lead in the consultation process and suggested the schedule as per the recommendations of priests. “Govinddev ji held consultations with several priests from Varanasi and Ayodhya, who suggested that the time on August 5 was ideal for the groundbreaking ceremony,” Kumar said. “Swami Swaroopanand ji has been at odds with us since 1984 and doesn’t support any of our initiatives,” he added. Mahant Kamal Nayan, assistant to trust chairman Nritya Gopal Das, said the ground-breaking ceremony was finalised after “Govinddev ji consulted priests and informed the Prime Minister”. The trust has invited all prominent leaders related with the temple movement including L K Advani, M M Joshi and Kalyan Singh, besides home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath. With questions being raised about the groundbreaking ceremony in the midst of Covid-19 restrictions, the trust has decided to ensure no big crowds at the venue. The event will be telecast live and screens will be installed in Ayodhya for devotees to watch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-to-begin-ram-temple-construction-at-12-30pm-august-5/articleshow/77160934.cms||Akhilesh Singh
July 25, 2020||Delhi||Two snatchers nabbed in Delhi's Malviya Nagar||NEW DELHI: Two youths were nabbed after they allegedly snatched a woman’s belongings near Malviya Nagar on Thursday afternoon, hours after a similar incident was reported in Greater Kailash that was caught on a CCTV. Police said that the youths were found to be involved in similar robberies near Munirka and Hauz Rani. They are being interrogated to find out whether they were involved in the robbery at GK as well. In her complaint, the woman told the cops that she was heading to the market near Panchsheel Vihar when the two men approached her on a blue scooter from behind and slapped her so hard that her spectacles fell on the road. The men then snatched her mobile phone and picked up the spectacles before fleeing. An FIR was registered and the men were later arrested During the probe, police found that the men, who were later identified as Farookh and Rinku Kumar, had travelled to Panchsheel Vihar from the Hauz Rani. A manhunt was launched and the two men were arrested. The men told the cops that they had targeted other women similarly too. “We found that Farookh used to work at a shop in Munirka while Rinku is a food delivery boy. Both of them had lost their jobs some time ago,” said Parvinder Singh, additional DCP (south).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/two-snatchers-nabbed-in-malviya-nagar/articleshow/77158694.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Hyderabad||3 villages in Vikarabad dist marooned after heavy rains||Hyderabad: Unprecedented rain in the last two days in Vikarabad district led to floodwater submerging three villages. With streams overflowing at several places, normal life was paralysed. Houses, crops and roads in villages and mandals were damaged. Malkapur, Antaram and Induru were marooned as floodwater entered the houses in these villages. Peddemul village was also badly hit by heavy rains. With the wet spell set to continue for next two-three days, officials were put on high alert. “There has not been such heavy rain in several years in this part of the world,” an official said. Rains pummelled several areas with Vikarabad town receiving 74.2 mm on Thursday and Mominpet village 93.4 mm. In Malkapur, villagers were forced to take shelter on the rooftop of their houses. “I had to wade through the water with just my head above the surging waters to reach my house. The village looked like a river,” a villager said. Officials visited the village and took stock of the situation. They shifted nearly 60 residents to two local schools and provided them food. Kagna river in Vikarabad was overflowing at several places. “The road that stretches from Tandur to Hyderabad also suffered damage at some places resulting in traffic jams,” Srinivas Reddy, a local trader said. Transportation to Karnataka was affected because of overflowing floodwater on the roads. Officials on Friday began estimating the extent of damage caused to the standing crops. “If the crops are inundated in rainwater for more days, the damage would be more,” district agriculture officer M Gopal said. “There has been rain forecast for another three days, so we are on guard,” Tandur tehsildar Appala Naidu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-villages-in-vikarabad-dist-marooned-after-heavy-rains/articleshow/77159919.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Address local maize farmers’ concerns, HC tells Centre||Hyderabad: Flooded by pleas from maize farmers to protect them from unfair free trade practices unleashed on them by the central government, the Telangana high court on Friday sought an urgent reply from the Union commerce ministry and Director General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) as to why they were allowing free import of maize (corn) to the detriment of local farmers. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy sought replies from the Centre by Monday while hearing two sets of pleas filed by maize farmers and local corn units which process locally purchased maize and sell it. In addition to this, hundreds of farmers impleaded themselves in the case. According to Dominic Fernandes, counsel for some of the petitioners, the Centre had imposed ‘actual user condition’ to protect the domestic industry from maize imports. The actual user condition stipulates that the imported corn should be used as an input to manufacture a new distinctive product. “Therefore, the importers should use the imported corn only as an input in the manufacturing process and the same cannot be sold in its current condition in India,” the counsel explained. The bench too observed during the hearing that merely frying imported corn and packing it here for selling it as popcorn would not make it a newly-manufactured item. “Rules do not permit such repacking for the purpose of selling in the local market,” the bench said. Rules permit import of maize by a person or firm only of he or it is the actual user of the imported product. Such imports cannot be repacked for local sales. Then, why is the Centre allowing the sales here,” the bench questioned N Rajeswara Rao, assistant solicitor general. The farmers’ counsel said that they were aggrieved by an interim order of a coordinate bench that allowed the imports of maize under ‘tariff rate quota’ (reduced customs duty). The imported corn is allowed now at 15% duty instead of the basic customs duty of 50%. “Now, the domestic industry is even more badly hit as not only is the imported corn traded in the Indian market in violation of the actual user condition, it is now imported at a reduced customs duty of 15% disabling the local farmers from competing with international giants who will flood the market with cheap rates,” Fernandes said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/address-local-maize-farmers-concerns-hc-tells-centre/articleshow/77159936.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Mumbai||Insurance fraudster strikes again, retiree loses Rs 55,000||A 63-year-old retired man from Thane became another victim of the online swindler who had posed as an agent of a private insurance company and cheated a 45-year-old woman from Naupada of Rs 17 lakh with the offer of a “prematurity bonus”. The senior citizen, who lives in Pawan Nagar area, was duped of Rs 55,000, said the police. On June 29, the conman called the victim and said his insurance policy premium was due in July, but if he paid now he would get a 10% discount, said a cop. “As the victim was given all details of his policy, he was convinced. He transferred Rs 55,000 into a bank account provided by the caller and even got ‘premium paid’ receipt from two email IDs,” he added. But on July 14, when the senior citizen received a text message that his premium was due, he called the firm. After confirming that no money had been transferred to the insurance firm, he called the two numbers from which he had received the calls, but they were unreachable. He then filed a police complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/insurance-fraudster-strikes-again-retiree-loses-rs-55000/articleshow/77158655.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
July 25, 2020||Ludhiana||Adult content flows unchecked on social media platforms||Ludhiana: Even as the Ludhiana police commissionerate boasts of a cyber cell and a social media cell, the cops have failed to keep a check on the adult content available on the internet.Undeterred by the threat of police action, some sleazy characters still get away with their Facebook and Twitter posts offering escort and body massage services in the city. These pages also contain erotic and obscene content. What is more, the people running these accounts even drop their mobile numbers to be contacted back by the prospective clients.TOI identified a Facebook page named “Body massage for females in Ludhiana” with adult content in it. Besides, some Twitter handles — Call girls Ludhiana, Call girls service Ludhiana, Ludhiana call boy — are also there luring the weaker souls.Speaking with TOI, cyber security expert Rakshit Tandon said, “The availability of adult and obscene content on social media platforms has become a major concern. Ideally, there has to be a separate cell keeping a check on such content, as the police in general can’t keep a track of each such page of Facebook and dubious Twitter accounts. Usually, the cops act only when something is reported to them. So, first thing I would request the people to do is to report such pages immediately as they come across sleazy content on social media.”Getting these pages blocked is easy and on Twitter, it is even easier as it offers one the option to report such accounts, added Tandon.Asked about the possible action in such cases, the cyber expert said, “As per the Information Technology Act, publishing, sharing or forwarding obscene content is a criminal offence. Whosoever does it can be booked, including the minors. Besides, depending on the nature of content, action can also be taken under the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.”He further said that due to the coronavirus outbreak, the screen time of children has increased and they keep accessing the internet for study purposes.“However, it is important for the parents to keep an eye on what kind of content a child is accessing. Besides parental control applications, there are features for screen time management in smart phones, which can help parents keep their children away from offensive content. The cyber cell also needs to be proactive and the people should also start reporting such content on social media.”When contacted, commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said the police would take strict action against anyone indulging in such illegal activities. “The social media cell of Ludhiana police also keeps tabs on such activities. We will get these pages blocked.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/adult-content-flows-unchecked-on-social-media-platforms/articleshow/77156904.cms||Payal Dhawan
July 25, 2020||Ludhiana||In dispute over money, 2 men beat friend to death||Times News Network Ludhiana: Two men thrashed their friend of Rudra Enclave in Sahnewal to death. According to the police, the accused are drug addicts and beat up the victim when he allegedly refused to pay back the borrowed money. The police on Friday arrested one accused while his accomplice is at large.The deceased was identified as Manoj Singh Bhardwaj, 45, a factory worker who hailed from Bihar and had been living in Ludhiana for the past several years with his wife, Anu Devi, and three children. The police have arrested accused Sandeep Singh Gopi, 40, an autorickshaw driver of Mahadev Nagar, Dhandari, under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC. His accomplice, Murgi, is on the run. Anu Devi alleged that her husband had left the factory around 9.30pm on July 20. On way home, he met Gopi and Murgi, who took him to Gopi’s house. There, they thrashed Manoj and taking him for dead, abandoned him in the area. She added, “However, my husband returned to consciousness and managed to reach a nearby clinic, from where he called me and narrated the incident. Thereafter, he was shifted to a hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries on June 22. Before dying, he told me that Gopi was an addict and he was asking for money to get drugs. When he refused, Gopi thrashed him and snatched the money.” Inspector Inderjit Singh, SHO of Sahnewal police station, said Manoj had internal injuries and the police received his autopsy report on Friday and then registered a murder case. “The police have arrested Gopi, who has stated that Manoj had borrowed Rs 3,000 from him which he was not returning. On June 20, he and Murgi met Manoj and they took him to his house in an auto, where they consumed liquor. After having some drinks, Manoj and Gopi had an argument over the money, thereafter they thrashed Manoj,” the inspector added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/in-dispute-over-money-2-men-beat-friend-to-death/articleshow/77156912.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Mahindra group to set up university in Hyderabad soon||HYDERABAD: The Mahindra Group on Friday announced the launch of Mahindra University (MU) in Hyderabad, which will focus on offering education with an interdisciplinary approach integrating the study of science and technology with humanities, ethics & philosophy and design. Spread across a 130-acre campus, the varsity will offer undergraduate, post graduate and PhD courses. It will roll out a School of Management during 2021-22, School of Law by 2021-22, Indira Mahindra School of Education by 2021-22, School of Media & Liberal Arts by 2022-23 and School of Design by 2023-24. It plans to have around 4,000 students and over 300 faculty members across its various schools over the next five years. The university was launched virtually by Telangana IT and industries minister KT Rama Rao in presence of Telangana minister for education Sabitha Indra Reddy, Mahindra Group chairman Anand Mahindra, Tech Mahindra CEO & MD CP Gurnani and Mahindra University VC Yajulu Medury.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mahindra-group-to-set-up-varsity-in-city-soon/articleshow/77159917.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Goa||11 will be given vaccine in 1st trial in Goa today||PANAJI: Eleven volunteers from Goa will on Saturday receive the first doses of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin in phase-1 of the indigenously-made vaccine’s human trials. A 26-year-old man will be the youngest person to receive the vaccine, the trial of which will start at 10am, when a batch of four volunteers are injected. “The second batch, of seven volunteers, have been called in at 12 noon,’ said Dr Dhananjay Lad, director, Crome Clinical Research Pvt Ltd and Medical Tourism, the agency selected to conduct the trials at Redkar hospital in North Goa. In phase-1, Lad said that 50 volunteers have lined up, and for phase-2, that starts on Monday, the agency will screen more volunteers.  “We have planned to complete the vaccination of 50 volunteers by Monday,” Lad said, adding that only those volunteers whose reports have come normal have been called. The volunteers are between 18 and 55 years old. Fourteen days after being injected with the vaccine, the volunteers will again be called to the hospital. There, the development of antibodies in their system will be analysed, and an efficacy report will be prepared. Registration of volunteers at Redkar hospital started on Tuesday. Lad said that the response has been “tremendous” and that over 500 persons have shown willingness to be part of the trial. “We are overwhelmed by the response,” he said. “All the volunteers are highly educated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/11-will-be-given-vaccine-in-1st-trial-in-goa-today/articleshow/77159929.cms||Bindiya Chari
July 25, 2020||Hyderabad||SCR engineer held for taking bribe||HYDERABAD: CBI sleuths on Friday arrested a senior section engineer of South Central Railway for accepting a bribe of Rs 14,000. The accused, M Vijaya Raju, works at Jammalamadugu in Guntakal division. CBI booked a case under the Prevention of Corruption Act against Raju based on a specific complaint. The complainant alleged that he was absent from his duties during February-March 2020 due to ill-health and Raju had demanded 14,000 for showing the complainant’s absent period of 21 days as ‘on duty’. The accused officer also told the complainant he would not issue a charge memo against him if bribe was paid. Searches are being conducted at the office and residence of the accused. He will be produced before the competent court and will be shifted to judicial custody. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scr-engineer-held-for-taking-bribe/articleshow/77159954.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Delhi||Rain woes: Corporations blame Delhi government||NEW DELHI: The mayors of the three municipal corporations on Friday blamed Delhi government departments, including PWD and irrigation and flood control, for not cleaning their drains or removing even half the silt from roads on time, which led to large-scale waterlogging. North corporation mayor Jai Prakash alleged that Delhi government hadn’t issued them funds, which was leading to a financial crisis. “I met chief minister Arvind Kejriwal last week and told him that our staff were unpaid for two months. Despite his assurance, funds were not released. Our revenue share of Rs 1,108 crore is still pending. The government is not even recognising the efforts of martyred Corona Warriors. Last week, they refused Rs 1 crore compensation to the kin of a sanitation worker,” Prakash added. The mayor said that north corporation had held a meeting with PWD, DSIIDC and irrigation and flood control department officials before the monsoon to check their preparedness. “These departments claimed that silt removal had been completed, which proved to be false in the torrential rain on Sunday,” added Prakash. The north civic body claimed it had removed 11,000 metric tonnes of silt against the targeted 10,290 MT. Besides, 154 additional pumps had been deployed at vulnerable points to control waterlogging. There are 192 nullahs of 166km under its jurisdiction. EDMC mayor Nirmal Jain said they removed 58,000 MT silt from 223 drains against the targeted 49,660 MT. “PWD lifted 34,650 MT of silt against the targeted 75,000 MT till July 19. I&FC removed 1.35 lakh MT silt against 1.75 lakh MT from roads under its jurisdiction. This shows they were not serious about the waterlogging problem,” he added. South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) mayor Anamika said they had lifted 28,000 tonnes of silt against the targeted 25,000 MT from 247 drains. TOI tried to contact Delhi government and PWD for comments, but failed to get a response. Reacting to the allegations, AAP MLA Raghav Chadha said the corporations were the most corrupt departments in the country. “BJP is a corrupt party and that’s why health workers and doctors have not been paid for the past four months despite funds being disbursed to the corporations. It’s shameful that corruption continues even during the pandemic. They didn’t even pay salaries of teachers, which forced them to move Delhi high court,” he added. Prakash, however, clarified that over 5,000 teachers and doctors had been paid salaries till April. While SDMC employees had salary arrears of one month, east corporation had paid its staff till June 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rain-woes-corpns-blame-govt/articleshow/77159953.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Goa||In Salcete, less than 10 weddings in two months||Margao: With severe restrictions in place on marriage ceremonies, most couples who entered into wedlock during the wedding season this year chose to make it a very private affair. Though marriage-related functions are allowed by the ministry of home affairs (MHA) after the country entered the unlock mode, permissions need to be taken from the respective district magistrate for holding such events. In Salcete, which is home to many halls and hotels where wedding events take place every season, permissions were given to not more than 10 applicants during the last two months. Salcete deputy collector and sub-divisional magistrate Vishal Kundaikar told TOI that as per the MHA guidelines, not more than 50 people are allowed to attend a wedding ceremony. “We are not allowing wedding or related events to be held in a hotel, hall or auditorium. Approvals are given only if the event is to be held in a house, and all conditions of social distancing need to be followed,” Kundaikar said. Though there is no monitoring by authorities at the event, district administration officials said that there were enough provisions for punitive action if violations are brought to their notice. The wedding season has largely come to an end with the onset of monsoons. October-November heralds the wedding season in Goa during normal times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-salcete-less-than-10-weddings-in-two-months/articleshow/77159955.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Hyderabad||ED begins probe into TN cash seizure case||Hyderabad: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday initiated a preliminary probe into the complaint filed by Andhra Pradesh TDP MP K Ram Mohan Naidu regarding seizure of Rs 5.7 crore from a car in Tamil Nadu. The Tamil Nadu police on July 15 had seized the cash from a car with MLA sticker at Elavur checkpost in Arambakkam. The passengers in the car were identified as Vasanth and Lakshmi Narayana, residents of Ongole in AP, while the driver was identified as Nagaraj. As the trio couldn’t produce the documents, police handed over the cash to the Income Tax department. The MP has alleged that the cash and car belong to AP chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy’s kin and AP power minister Balineni Srinivas Reddy. Ram Mohan Naidu, in his complaint, had asked ED to probe the issue under Prevention of Money Laundering Act. Former AP minister Nara Lokesh alleged in a tweet that the Rs 5.27 crore that were seized was only a small part of the Rs 1,200 crore black money that has been sent to Mauritius via Chennai and Bengaluru through hawala route during the past one year and that Balineni Srinivas was also involved in the scam. Meanwhile, Balineni Srinivas denied the allegations. He stated that Ongole-based jeweller Nallamalli Balu has himself clarified that he took the money to Chennai to purchase gold from bullion traders . “I have no involvement in this issue. If they prove my involvement, I will resign from my post. They have dragged my name unnecessarily. Why would a jeweller come out and claim the money is his if it’s not his? TDP is trying to target me politically,” he told TOI. Jeweller Nallamalli Balu of NVR Jewellers had earlier said that he owns Rs 5.22 crore cash and that he took the money to Chennai to purchase gold from bullion traders as they were not visiting Ongole due to the pandemic. “The sticker is old and belongs to the former MLA of Giddaluru, but I do not know how I got it. The income tax authorities have inspected my house and served a notice,” he had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ed-begins-probe-into-tn-cash-seizure-case/articleshow/77159952.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
July 25, 2020||Gurgaon||RWAs in Gurugram will now wear a new suit, that of property tax collector||GURUGRAM: If you own a house in Gurugram, don’t be surprised if your RWA calls up to inquire if you’ve paid your property tax. The pandemic has seen RWAs being increasingly vested with powers beyond their scope, and here’s the latest — the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), whose revenue generation has taken a severe hit due to the lockdown, has introduced an incentive system for RWAs and ward committees if they help with property tax and fire tax collections in their respective areas. As an incentive, the corporation will give 5% of the total property tax collected in the area — with a cap at Rs 50 lakh for ward committees and Rs 5 lakh for RWAs — for waste management work. There are, however, conditions; MCG will give the incentive only if collections reach 80% of the total property tax due in an area. “The scheme will be applicable for only those RWAs and ward committees where the number of properties is more than 500 units. The incentive amount will be transferred to ward committees/RWAs for meeting expenditure on solid waste management projects in their area,” read the order issued by the MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh on Thursday evening. MCG officials said they have already informed RWAs and ward committees about the incentive system. “Property tax collection has seen a fall due to the lockdown. We’ve decided to give incentives to RWAs and ward committees so that maximum property tax is collected. Some of the RWAs are keen to participate and help us with tax collection in their areas,” said Dinesh Kumar, zonal taxation officer-2, MCG. Fall is putting it mildly. From April 1 to July 24, MCG has collected only Rs 48 crore as property tax. The estimated revenue from property tax for the 2020-21 fiscal year is Rs 500 crore. MCG officials said it would be acceptable if the corporation was able to achieve even 50% of this target, considering the strains the pandemic had put people under. So far, the corporation has issued 1,600 notices to defaulters with property tax dues of more than Rs 5 lakh. RWAs, who have had a busy last four months with the government effectively relying on them to perform the role of last-mile administrators — from framing rules on who can enter a society or colony to restrictions on domestic staff — are already chalking out plans to encourage people to pay up. Some said they would be happier if the incentive was higher than Rs 5 lakh. The Qutub Enclave RWA, for instance, will organise a property tax camp for residents next week. “Property tax collections have come down compared to last year due to the pandemic. Though we welcome this step, RWAs feel the Rs 5 lakh cap should be increased to motivate them to work for the property tax collection. Since some people find it difficult to file tax online, so we have collaborated with MCG. Some of their officials will be present at the camp and collect property tax on the spot,” Qutub Enclave RWA spokesperson Dhruv Bansal said. Suncity too is planning a similar drive. “It is a very good move by MCG. We have around 1,300 housing units in Suncity and are going to discuss this offer at a virtual meeting with RWA members so that we plan a campaign. I am sure that most residents will pay property tax on time,” said Kuldeep Rana, president of the Suncity RWA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/rwas-in-city-will-now-wear-a-new-suit-that-of-property-tax-collector/articleshow/77159974.cms||Vishakha Chaman
July 25, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Car fraud gang busted, two arrested||VADODARA: The prevention of crime branch (PCB) has busted a gang that duped car owners in Gujarat and sold off their vehicles over last four months. The cops arrested two persons, including a bootlegger and four luxurious cars have been seized. Two other accused _ Jimmy and Mohammed _ who are from Surat, are yet to be arrested. According to the police, the gang used to take advantage of the lockdown for duping people. “Hemil Patel who is based in Navsari, had approached many people during the lockdown and took their cars on rent. He used to tell them that the cars will be used for social service. Patel paid hefty rent to the owners,” said R C Kanamiya, police inspector, PCB. Hemil then contacted Jimmy and Mohammed, who made bogus documents of these vehicles. “The gang used to sell off these cars for lower prices by producing the bogus documents. Owners of the cars got no whiff of the fraud as they were paid rent regularly,” Kanamiya told TOI. The gang had sold off cars from Surat, Navsari, Bharuch and Vadodara. Interestingly, half of these cars were sold to bootleggers who used them for ferrying liquor. “They aimed to escape police vigil by using high-end cars. We have seized three cars while the Surat police have seized one,” Kanamiya added. The police have arrested Hemil and bootlegger Himanshu Agrawal, a resident of Vadodara. The police said that Hemil owns a poultry in Chikli at Navsari and had good contacts there. He used his local network to rent cars and then sell them off. Investigators learnt about the fraud when they seized a car from the city in connection with another case some time ago. When they tracked down the owner, he told them that he had rented it to Hemil. “We are hoping to seize more cars once we get hold of Jimmy and Mohammed,” Kanamiya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/car-fraud-gang-busted-two-arrested/articleshow/77157686.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: In Covid time, 36 residents get keys to flats after 15 years||MUMBAI: A builder on Friday literally gave 36 Chembur residents the key to happiness amid worries the pandemic has wrought on many. Rajesh Dedhia handed over keys to their new flats, for a fit-out, in a redevelopment project, to the families who waited 15 years, after their original builder, Shekhar Dadarkar, failed to finish it. A possession for fit-out is to help enable society members to complete furniture and fixtures before getting an occupancy certificate (OC). Possession is likely to take a few months as the OC is awaited. TimesViewIn a city where a permanent roof over one’s head is elusive to many, numerous families stay locked in legal battles with builders for years over redevelopment. This positive ending to a 15-year-old legal battle brings hope to millions who have vacated their homes and are at the mercy of builders. Builders and home-owners should arbitrate and come out with such solutions to end the impasse.“Members of Tilak Nagar Jai Hind Cooperative Housing Society were without a permanent house for almost 15 years and Dadarkar had stopped paying them interim rent since 2016,’’ their lawyer Viraj Maniar said on Friday. In 2016, Justice S J Kathawalla of Bombay high court had hauled up Dadarkar for “dishonest conduct’’ and cheating flat-owners of Ekta Suprebath society in Goregaon (W). To ensure one of his redevelopment projects gets completed 10 years after original society members had vacated their premises, HC appointed Ajay Dedhia on a panel and he ensured that almost 80 families got new homes in June 2017. “In 2017, after seeing a report in TOI about their rehabilitation, the society approached Ajay to complete their abandoned project. Society members cancelled their agreement with Dadarkar, who had been arrested by Economic Offences Wing of Mumbai Police earlier. Ajay handed over the project to his brother Rajesh, who Maniar said, “Inspired by Justice Kathawala’s orders in helping those dishoused, in a heartwarming gesture during Covid, handed over the flats to the old occupants for fit-outs and also agreed to address woes of almost 60 flat-buyers in the free sale component.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/36-chembur-residents-get-keys-for-fit-out-after-15-years/articleshow/77158378.cms||Swati Deshpande
July 25, 2020||Kolkata||Shoppers throng malls ahead of Sat shutdown||Kolkata: Shoppers made the most of the gap between two lockdowns this week by turning out at shopping malls in numbers on Friday. According to mall operators, footfall increased by 20%-25% against previous Friday as shoppers checked in around evening, shopped and ate before Saturday’s lockdown. While malls would record the highest footfall on Sundays before Covid arrived, Saturdays have been drawing the largest number of shoppers ever since malls reopened on June 8. “Customers have been preferring to come to shop and dine on Saturdays. They appear reluctant to step out on Sunday, perhaps because they are conscious that they will be out from Monday onwards and want to spend time at home. After all, we have all discovered home and family in a new way in this lockdown,” said a mall operator.Sevaral mall operators had feared a washout on Friday with the two lockdown days — one the day before and the other the next day — spooking customers. But customers appear to have chosen Friday over Sunday and turned out in numbers.“People know they have to live with coronavirus. They also realise that malls are among the safest places to be, given the kind of safety and sanitization measures we have adopted,” a mall manager said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/shoppers-throng-malls-ahead-of-sat-shutdown/articleshow/77158647.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Overdoing his robbery act nails cash agent||NEW DELHI: A cash collection agent and his two friends enacted a gunpoint robbery on Monday to deprive his company of the Rs 3 lakh that he had collected in east Delhi’s Farsh Bazar. However, in his zeal to influence the cops into accepting the incident as real, he overplayed his hand, leading to his arrest and that of his friends. Police said Nikhil Bhardwaj, the cash collection agent, Sahil and Kunal were caught from Vishwas Nagar area on Friday after giving contradictory statements to the police regarding the sequence of the purported robbery. During interrogation, Bhardwaj told the cops that he was employed with a cable supply company in east Delhi and had been assigned to collected bill payments from his firm’s customers in Farsh Bazar. He claimed that on Monday, he was waylaid by two men and forced to part with day’s collection at gunpoint. On investigating, the cops found that Bhardwaj had informed the police control room almost two hours after the incident, by which time he had collected footage from the CCTV cameras in the area and forwarded it to Aaj Tak, Total TV and some local television channels. The video went viral on social media too. Initially, Bhardwaj refused to join the investigation pleading that he was shaken by the incident. However, the cops also realised that he and his family members were constantly feeding inconsistent information to television reporters. This made the investigators suspicious and they tracked Bhardwaj’s movement before the incident. It was then that they discovered that the collection agent had gone to places that day that were normally not on his route. Bhardwaj was confronted with this new finding, and eventually confessed to the fake robbery plot with his two close friends. He said after finishing his rounds, he called Sahil and Kunal and asked them to intercept him in a lane where CCTV cameras were installed so the footage of the incident would be captured. He then used the recording and talked to TV reporters to divert attention from his complicity. Police, however, saw through their game and booked the trio for theft, breach of trust and criminal conspiracy. The cash bag was recovered from the possession of Kunal. Amit Sharma, DCP (Shahdara), disclosed that Bhardwaj attributed his action to a sense of feeling cheated by his employer. The agent claimed he knew the company earned big money because he collected the daily takings, but wasn’t paid a good salary. After stealing the Rs 3 lakh, he had planned to quit from the company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/overdoing-his-robbery-act-nails-cash-agent/articleshow/77159962.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Mumbai||IPL advanced by a wk, to kick off on Sept 19||The Indian Premier League has advanced the 13th edition of the tournament by a week, rescheduling the starting date from September 26 to the 19th with the final to be held on November 8. Under this schedule, 60 matches will be played in 51 days as against the 44-day window allotted earlier. It will be the first time Indian cricket will see an exercise of this magnitude. TOI had reported the rescheduling of dates on Wednesday, a day after broadcaster Star India conveyed it was “unhappy” with the roster. It can also be confirmed now the advancement of the league’s starting date puts an end to all speculation surrounding the three-match white-ball series that was being planned against South Africa. IPL’s governing council chairman Brijesh Patel confirmed on Friday the dates reported by TOI. That, however, was the easy part. The tougher bit will be the effort BCCI puts in to actually make it happen. IPL franchises are clear in their demand that they would like their players to assemble a minimum of three weeks before the start of the tournament and should the IPL entourage fly to the UAE even by mid-August, the players will always keep running short on time to catch-up after having played no cricket for close to six months. India will see in excess of 1,200 individuals flying to the UAE, should the two governments give the final nod, including overseas cricketers, match officials and commentators from other countries. “Of that, around 200 are just cricketers and that many more in terms of support staff, team management, executives handling franchise logistics and operations etc. So, let’s say around 400-500 of them. As of now, the players are spread out in different parts of the country and the world. How to bring them all together to one location and make them fly? These are plans that need to be thoroughly worked out,” say those in the know. BCCI has twice shifted IPL out of the country – in 2009 and 2014. However, never before in the history of Indian cricket has an exercise of such gigantic proportions taken place. “No sport anywhere in the world has ever shifted an entire tournament out of the country at the last minute. Indian cricket accomplished it in 2009. Now, add a pandemic to that exercise and see how big that responsibility becomes,” they add. Take this scenario for instance: BCCI and IPL franchises are busy figuring ways to charter overseas cricketers, support staff, commentators and other officials from different parts of the world. Owners have been asked to “help” out with private planes. Processing of visas is about to begin at a neck-break speed. Hospitality is BCCI’s least concern because franchises are “more than capable” of organising it on their own. Once the IPL lands in UAE, the real ‘test’ begins. “The ECB did a fabulous job in pulling off the series (vs West Indies). There are lessons to take from that. IPL’s biggest responsibility will be to put a well-panned bio-secure bubble in place, of course with the help of authorities in UAE. In that lies the success of IPL’s 13th edition. The winner of this year’s league has to be the way in which it is conducted,” sources say. A mandatory quarantine will be in place when the entourage lands but prior to departure, every individual taking flight will undergo two tests for Covid within 72 hours and repeat the procedure upon arrival. “Anybody with the mildest of concerns will not take the flight. Upon landing, the next 72 hours will be spent in complete isolation and settling down. Then it will be for the UAE authorities and government’s policies to guide us on further procedures,” sources said. One of the reasons IPL has settled for the UAE is that two grounds – in Abu Dhabi and Dubai – are on the city outskirts. Secondly, the tournament will not require any air travel. Third, the government of UAE can be expected to extend full cooperation and has the experience of hosting the league back in 2014. Fourth, as industry executives put it, “if the IPL happens, it won’t just help Indian cricket and thousands who depend on it. It will work in favour of the global cricketing ecosystem”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ipl-advanced-by-a-wk-to-kick-off-on-sept-19/articleshow/77160601.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Kolkata||Restos stare at bleak days ahead||Kolkata: The impact of the bi-weekly lockdown is set to lead to the closure of several city restaurants. Struggling to stay afloat with reduced capacity and low footfall, the renewed shutdown has made it difficult for them to operate, many pointed out. While two prominent restaurants – that had reopened last month — have shut down in the last one week, at least two more, including a prominent Park Street restaurant, may down shutters soon.“We are looking at a bleak period ahead. Footfall has been extremely low ever since we reopened in June. With the spike in the number of affected, it had come down to a trickle over the last fortnight. The bi-weekly lockdown has driven away even the few who had been dropping in,” said Hotel and Restaurants Association of Eastern India (HRAEI) secretary Sudesh Poddar.Manthan, owned by Poddar, shut down last week. Trincas on Park Street closed down after it had opened for two weeks in June. Like other restaurants on Park Street, it is operating its kitchen for online orders. But the latter, too, have dropped. “They are barely enough to keep us going. With the rise in numbers, online orders have dipped, too. We don’t see things improving soon,” said Nitin Kothari, owner of Mocambo and Peter Cat on Park Street.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/restos-stare-at-bleak-days-ahead/articleshow/77158687.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Country’s largest Miyawaki park on Hyderabad outskirts||HYDERABAD: The country’s largest Miyawaki urban forest park will come up on a 10-acre land at Kothapet near LB Nagar in the city. The park will be developed on the lines of Yadadri model plantation at a cost of Rs 30 lakh. School education minister Sabitha Indra Reddy said Victoria Memorial Home Trust had allowed the use of the land to develop the park. As many as two lakh saplings will be planted to develop the park. Work on the park was grounded on Thursday in connection with municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao’s birthday. Sabitha Reddy said the park would be the biggest in the country and was being developed on the Miyawaki urban forest model. Mayor Bonthu Rammohan and the minister planted the first sapling. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/countrys-largest-miyawaki-park-on-city-outskirts/articleshow/77159958.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Stigma against Covid patients main issue: Kammula||Hyderabad: Noted Telugu film director Sekhar Kammula on Friday said that stigma against the Covid-19 patients is the main challenge in the current scenario. In a first-of-its-kind 40-minute live interaction on Facebook with the family of a Covid-19 survivor, which was arranged by health advocacy groups, the director said that the society must come together to fighting against the virus. The family explained in detail how the family faced the trauma and how their 75-year-old kin fought the virus. “The problem initially was where and when to get tested,” the family said. Kammula opined that the government must give more information on where to get the tests done. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stigma-against-covid-patients-main-issue-kammula/articleshow/77159961.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Goa||Wholesale fish market reopens, but chaos prevails||Margao: The South Goa Planning and Development Authority (SGPDA)’s wholesale fish market reopened for the second time on Friday after a week-long shutdown, but the chaotic scenes were witnessed once again as fish traders went about business during the early morning hours. Complaints about non-compliance of social distancing norms were raised by locals as they questioned the efficacy of the system claimed to have been put in place by the SGPDA in the wholesale fish market. Filth and stench pervaded along the Maddel-Comba bypass road as well as the vendors sold fish along the roadsides during the morning hours. Savio Coutinho of the Shadow Council for Margao accused authorities of having “succumbed to the mafias involved in fish trading”. “Even after Goa is subjected to the suffering on account of a lone incident of a fish trader getting fish from across the border, we still don’t want to learn from this, and the mafias are taking maximum advantage of it,” Coutinho said. He demanded that proper order be brought at the fish market as also put an immediate stop to the illegal sale of fish along the ring road in Margao. Though the wholesale fish market was scheduled to be kept open from 4 pm to 6 pm, the absence of any personnel from the food and drugs administration (FDA) to check fish brought into the market, left many fish-laden vehicles stranded along the road outside the market. The SGPDA had undertaken to reopen the wholesale fish market from Friday with enhanced safety measures and strict monitoring mechanism to be put in place by the authorities. SGPDA chairman Wilfred D’Sa had said on Thursday that restricted and staggered timings of the market, systematic parking arrangement, and strict enforcement by the police, would ensure maintenance of social distancing in the wholesale fish market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/wholesale-fish-market-reopens-but-chaos-prevails/articleshow/77159971.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
July 25, 2020||Mumbai||Ex-BARC engineer, teacher among four duped of Rs 10L in digital payment scams||Navi Mumbai: Four residents of Navi Mumbai, including a former BARC mechanical engineer and a teacher, lost around Rs 10 lakh in digital payment frauds in the last three days. In three of the cases, the fraudsters, who posed as customer care representatives, asked the victims to download an app to gain remote access to their phones and made the illegal transactions. In his complaint to Taloja police on Thursday, retired BARC mechanical engineer T Laxman Rao (63) said that on Tuesday, he was unable to make a digital payment and ‘coincidentally’ received a call from a ‘customer care representative’. The caller claimed there was a system error and connected Rao to his senior officer R K Sharma, who made him download an app on his iPhone and reveal his debit card details. Gaining remote access to Rao’s phone, the fraudster carried out two transactions of nearly Rs 2.5 lakh. When Rao raised an alarm, assuring a refund, the fraudster sent him a link and carried out three more transactions of Rs 1 lakh each and another Rs 8,500 from his other bank account. The money was transferred to a digital wallet in Noida. In the second case filed at NRI Coastal police station on Thursday, Nerul resident Bhagyashri Deshpande (35) alleged that a ‘customer care representative’ gained remote access to her father’s phone after making her download an app on the pretext of KYC update and made five unauthorised transactions of Rs 1.5 lakh. New Panvel teacher Aarti Patil (34) and her engineer husband Sachin lost Rs 2.3 lakh, which got debited from their savings account after they downloaded an app to ‘update’ her KYC. The customer care representative, who identified himself as Karan Srivastav, said he was calling from Noida. The Khandeshwar police filed an FIR in the case on Thursday. The fourth victim, V Varghese, a 70-year-old Seawoods resident, filed a complaint at NRI Coastal police station after being cheated of Rs nearly 66,000. Varghese said that he wanted to lodge a complaint with the digital payment firm as Rs 5,000 he had transferred was not credited to the recipient’s account. He found a customer care mobile number online and called on it. Varghese said the representative asked him to open the app on his phone and under the pretext of entering a code in the ‘New Payment’ option, made him enter multiple numbers, which were actually the amounts to be transferred to the fraudster’s e-wallet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ex-barc-engineer-teacher-among-four-duped-of-rs-10l-in-digital-payment-scams/articleshow/77158886.cms||George Mendonca
July 25, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: With 250 active cases, Behala gets 4 new containment zones; virus worry in Naktala-Kudghat||KOLKATA: Behala and its fringes, which has reported over 850 Covid cases over the past four months, saw a rise in containment zones on Friday with four stretches in Haridevpur and Majherhat being added to the list. With five containment zones, Behala and its fringes and Bhowanipore, which also has five containment zones, comprise one-third of the city’s restricted areas.  In Behala, there are around 250 active cases, many of them from Parnasree, east Behala and Roy Bahadur Road. Another area that has emerged as “high-risk” is between Naktala and Kudghat, which has reported 40 cases in the past two weeks and a couple of people succumbed. But no containment zone was declared in the 3km stretch. “Given the population of Behala, deaths have been sparse and recovery has been high. But the total count of 850 is considerably high. We are asking people to follow social distancing. We are also telling them not to panic as less than one-third cases are active now,” said a senior divisional officer. With a population of 11 lakh, Behala is stretched across six police stations, covering Parnasree, Taratala, Thakurpukur, Haridevpur and Sarsuna. Most cases are being reported from Parnasree, where a stretch of Maharani Indira Devi Road (Pallysree crossing to Khejur Bagan) remains under containment. Though the division is now free of two containment zones at Sakherbazar and east Behala, around 300 cases there even a month ago led the KMC and police to tighten their grip. Pockets in Haridevpur, Purba Barisha, Parnashree, Satyen Roy Road and Roy Bahadur Road also reported cases as did neighbourhoods in Taratala, Sarsuna and Thakurpuku . “Some cases have been detected in apartments, one of them being located on the busy Diamond Harbour Road itself,” said an official. Contact tracing of a few indicated infection from hospitals and nursing homes. “We are taking steps to minimize the spread at various levels. We have held swab tests across several wards. A second round will begin soon. Regular sanitization drives are on. We are worried about markets. We are asking everyone to wear masks,” said borough coordinator Sushanto Ghosh (Bua). The authorities are regularizing market timings. The Naktala-Kudghat belt could keep the novel coronavirus at bay even a month ago. The first few cases surfaced from near Usha bridge and Kalibari bridge. A KMC health official said they were worried about a 500m stretch between Kalibari bridge and Kudghat bridge. “More than eight have been infected there and a senior citizen died in the past seven days. The virus has to be contained there,” the official said. Bansdroni’s Swapan Mukherjee said, “ At least five persons staying within 150m were infected in seven days. Neither KMC nor cops have taken any step.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/with-250-active-cases-behala-gets-4-new-c-zones-virus-worry-in-naktala-kudghat/articleshow/77158724.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 25, 2020||Delhi||Hisar gang cloned cards at Delhi ATMs||NEW DELHI: Two members of a gang have been arrested for allegedly laying traps at ATM booths in the city and cloning target’s cards using a skimmer machine. Crime Branch said that the gang travelled to Delhi from Hisar to dupe people and raids are on to nab other members of the group. DCP (crime) Bhisham Singh said that the accused have been identified as Ramesh and Sonu, who are in their early twenties. Police suspect the gang may have duped over 500 people till now. The two men were nabbed from Sultanpuri after the cops received an input. The accused had come to withdraw money from an ATM in a mall using a cloned card. “One skimming machine and 21 cloned cards - nine debit and credit cards, and 12 blank cards with magnetic strips - have been seized from the accused. Two mobile phones have also been seized from them,” DCP singh said. The accused told the cops that every member of the gang had a specific role to play. One of them would lay traps at ATMs and wait for users who were either elderly or were not familiar with operating the machine. “On pretext of helping them use the ATM, the men would take their card and bring it in close to the skimmer hidden in their pocket. The skimmer would read and copy the data from the card,” the DCP said. The men would also note the PIN used to withdraw the money. The stolen data would then be copied on to a blank card to withdraw money. The men told police that the kingpin of the gang has been identified as a man named Raju who took in tech-savvy but unemployed youngsters into the gang. The gang is based out of Bahadurgarh in Haryana but operates in several states. The gang allegedly ordered the skimmers from an e-commerce website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hisar-gang-cloned-cards-at-delhi-atms/articleshow/77159969.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi cops to train youths in crime fight via video con||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police will train five dozen youths living in crime-prone areas over the next three months, who will then be employed as duty assistants in hospitals and pharmacies. It is being done under the Yuva scheme, which has now gone online. The youths will be trained over videoconferencing. The scheme is being implanted in central Delhi and will be extended to other parts of the city as well. DCP (central) Sanjay Bhatia said that the plan to educate the youths was taken up as during the pandemic most of the projects like Skill India cannot be implemented in government schools and training institutes. “Our plan is to provide on-hand training to these youths so that they do not remain unemployed. We have divided the applicants into batches so that all of them can be employed,” said Bhatia. The beat constables of each police station have been asked to identify youths, from their respective areas, who are either unemployed or have a tendency to veer towards criminal activities. After they are identified, the cops will approach their parents and ask them to enrol the youths for the Yuva scheme. The cops have roped in specialists from the nursing colleges and pharmaceutical industries who will train the youths. Police officers said that another batch of 60 trainees has been identified. They will be taught methods of handling different types of patients at hospitals, administering intravenous injections and providing CPRs to critical patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/city-cops-to-train-youths-in-crime-fight-via-video-con/articleshow/77158768.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: 234 kg opium seized in Chittorgarh, 2 arrested||JAIPUR: In one of the largest narcotics seizure this year, 234kg of opium was seized from Chittorgarh. Two persons were also arrested and according to officials, the contraband was destined to Jodhpur. The arrested persons were identified as R Lal and M K Dhakad. One vehicle was also seized by the cops. Based on specific intelligence, Jodhpur zonal unit of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) raided the residential premises of R Lal and seized 233.97kg of opium,” said an NCB official. The investigation pointed to the fact that the consignment belongs to Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan-based drug traffickers, claimed officials. Preliminary investigation revealed that the opium was sourced from licit cultivation area of Chittorgarh and was destined to Jodhpur. Licit cultivation of opium is carried out in India in selected tracts notified by the central government in the states of Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. Elaborating further, the official said, “During seizure and further investigation, it has been learnt that some of the legal cultivators, especially those in the districts of Mandsaur, Neemuch and Ratlam of Madhya Pradesh and Chittorgarh and Jhalawar of Rajasthan, divert the substance to illegal channels and sell it to intermediaries for profits. These intermediaries traffic this opium to other parts of the country for consumption and conversion to heroin. The seized opium in this case is also sourced from licit cultivation in Chittorgarh district of Rajasthan.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/234kg-opium-seized-in-chittorgarh-2-arrested/articleshow/77164474.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
July 25, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 234 kg opium seized in Chittorgarh, 2 arrested||JAIPUR: In one of the largest narcotics seizure this year, 234kg of opium was seized from Chittorgarh. Two persons were also arrested and according to officials, the contraband was destined to Jodhpur. The arrested persons were identified as R Lal and M K Dhakad. One vehicle was also seized by the cops. Based on specific intelligence, Jodhpur zonal unit of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) raided the residential premises of R Lal and seized 233.97kg of opium,” said an NCB official. The investigation pointed to the fact that the consignment belongs to Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan-based drug traffickers, claimed officials. Preliminary investigation revealed that the opium was sourced from licit cultivation area of Chittorgarh and was destined to Jodhpur. Licit cultivation of opium is carried out in India in selected tracts notified by the central government in the states of Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. Elaborating further, the official said, “During seizure and further investigation, it has been learnt that some of the legal cultivators, especially those in the districts of Mandsaur, Neemuch and Ratlam of Madhya Pradesh and Chittorgarh and Jhalawar of Rajasthan, divert the substance to illegal channels and sell it to intermediaries for profits. These intermediaries traffic this opium to other parts of the country for consumption and conversion to heroin. The seized opium in this case is also sourced from licit cultivation in Chittorgarh district of Rajasthan.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/234kg-opium-seized-in-chittorgarh-2-arrested/articleshow/77158686.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
July 25, 2020||Mumbai||Union home minister Amit Shah to open webinar on Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak||MUMBAI: Union home minister Amit Shah will open a day-long online discussion session on Tilak, featuring several scholars, on the occasion of Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak’s death centenary on August 1. The webinar ‘Lokmanya Tilak: From Swaraj to Atmanirbhar Bharat’ is being organized by Indian Council of Cultural Relations (ICCR) and will feature eminent historians like Gordon Johnson and Sadanand More, history professor Rizwan Kadri, Muang Muang, a scholar who has translated Tilak’s biography into Burmese, and Vikas Paranjpe from Mumbai, among others. S Gurumurthy will be the final speaker at the session, to be chaired by ICCR chief Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, with participants from various institutes. The discussion will revolve chiefly around Tilak’s contribution to the freedom movement, his global vision, his attempts at India’s cultural revival and his thoughts on Swadeshi, ICCR said. ICCR initially planned to unveil a statue of Tilak at the Indian consulate in Mandalay and to name the consulate’s main hall after him as he was incarcerated there for six years. But the plan was put on hold due to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/amit-shah-to-open-webinar-on-tilak/articleshow/77158702.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC: Can parents check online if fee hike has DoE nod?||NEW DELHI: Parents of students studying in private schools will soon know if the fee hike approval has been given by Directorate of Education (DoE) to the schools. Delhi high court has asked DoE to respond to a petition filed on whether the department could upload approval letters on the DoE website. With parents complaining of schools charging exorbitant fee citing approvals from DoE, the petition has been filed by Justice for All. For schools built on government land, it is mandatory for the schools to get prior approval from DoE before increasing the fee. The petition states, “All proposals are filed online by the director of education and soft copy of orders of approvals or rejections are communicated through email. All soft copies are therefore available with the director of education, and it will not need any extra effort of scanning, etc. if the documents are uploaded on the website.” According to the petition, not uploading documents is also a violation of provisions of section 4 of the Right to Information Act 2005. “This information is important for transparency and will also control the corruption in the decision-making process regarding fee hike permission in recognised unaided private schools,” said Khagesh Jha an advocate of Justice for All.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-can-parents-check-online-if-fee-hike-has-doe-nod/articleshow/77159986.cms||Shradha Chettri
July 25, 2020||Goa||Part of Candolim’s Orda ward sealed||Calangute: A part of the Orda ward in Candolim has been sealed after three persons from the area have tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday. The three persons are close contacts of a senior citizen who had tested positive for the virus last Friday after being admitted to the Goa Medical College (GMC) and Hospital, Bambolim, for asthma-related problems, said sources. The three include the first patient’s wife, their maid servant and her husband. They had all been home quarantined after the first positive case had come to light. In all, 22 people had been tested last week. “Following the three positive cases on Thursday, the staff of the primary health centre have taken throat swabs of 30 more persons, and their results are expected by Sunday evening,” Dr Roshan Nazareth, the medical officer of the Candolim primary health centre, told TOI on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/part-of-candolims-orda-ward-sealed/articleshow/77159978.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata civic body defers property tax drive as defaulters go behind Covid-19 shield||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s drive against major property tax defaulters is proving to be a difficult exercise, given the renewed lockdown and the ongoing restrictions in the containment zones. The special civic assessment department team that had started raids on major tax defaulters is now being forced to suspend their campaign till the strict restrictions get over as several complexes are reportedly barring them entry, citing contamination risk. Till now, the plan is to restart the drive early in August. Keen on augmenting the civic revenue, which has suffered a loss of around Rs 300 crore owing to the lockdown in the past four months, the KMC brass asked the assessment department to conduct a special drive against major property tax defaulters. Accordingly, the crack team was formed in June and the members, armed with notices, paid visit to several high-rises and commercial establishments, compelling some of the defaulters to clear their property tax dues. “We started the drive after June 8, when the unlock began and by a fortnight, we collected Rs 14 crore from some of the defaulters in the Park Street-Loudon Street belt alone. We were encouraged to conduct more such raids in prime residential and commercial locations in south Kolkata,” said a KMC assessment department official. But the civic body’s plan to launch a more stringent drive against tax defaulters soon fell through as KMC assessment department inspectors were refused entry into homes by the reported defaulters, citing strict lockdown norms. “It was a trying time for us as we were simply not allowed to go into the tax defaulters’ offices or residential complexes, citing restrictions to minimize the spread of the novel coronavirus. We could understand it was actually a plea on part of some defaulters but given the situation, we could not serve any notice. We had to retreat,” said a KMC revenue department official. At the same time, some KMC inspectors were also reluctant to visit premises located in high-risk zones, fearing infection. KMC assessment department officials are now preparing a list of habitual defaulters who will be served notices as soon as the strict lockdown is lifted. In fact, a revenue official said, the civic brass wanted the assessment department team to relaunch their drive from early August. In the first phase, the KMC plans to mop up a substantial amount from 20 prime wards in south Kolkata. “While preparing the list of major defaulters in south Kolkata, we noticed if we could concentrate on 20 prime south Kolkata wards, we would be able to earn huge revenues,” said a KMC assessment department official. Revenue department sources said the prime locations would include Park Street, Loudon Street, Theatre Road, Elgin Road, Ballygunge, Rashbehari Avenue and Gariahat. He said that under pressure to increase revenue, which had dropped to an all-time low, the KMC assessment department might get tough with a section of habitual defaulters and even serve a distress warrant to attach their properties in case their dues were not cleared even this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-defers-property-tax-drive-as-defaulters-go-behind-covid-shield/articleshow/77158792.cms||Saikat Ray
July 25, 2020||Mysuru||Patient asks for home quarantine, commits suicide at home||MYSURU: Hours after a Covid positive patient sought home isolation and returned home from the designated Covid hospital here, he ended his life by hanging at his residence in west Mysuru on Friday. The 56-year-old employee of a factory where some 100 workers tested positive, was found hanging at his house in Gokulam early on Friday. Reasons for his extreme step are not known but it is believed that the man had slipped into depression after he tested positive and was shifted to hospital. He contracted the infection on July 19 and was shifted to the hospital. He returned home on Thursday after seeking home isolation. Upon his return, he locked himself in the room as per the protocol. However, when his wife came to give him breakfast the next morning, he was found hanging, said officials attached to VV Puram police station. DCP AN Prakashgowda said he may have taken the drastic step late in the night. The body was disposed of as per Covid protocol by health and civic authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/patient-asks-for-home-quarantine-commits-suicide-at-home/articleshow/77156042.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Hubballi||Psychiatrists roped in to boost confidence among govt staff||HUBBALLI: The government departments in the district are seeking help from psychiatrists to boost confidence among the staff. The move follows after many of them got infected with coronavirus. Among those infected were frontline warriors like police personnel, and this prompted the police department to counsel its staff. KIMS Hospital too has started counselling its staff by psychiatrists. Dr Rajani M H, deputy director of mental health, department of health and family welfare, said with the number of cases rising, government employees have started showing symptoms of anxiety, depression and burnout. “To counsel them, trained psychiatrists are working across the state. Psychiatrists in all districts have been trained in counseling the government employees coming to them with the stress, anxiety and burnout. Over 500 such trained experts are on the job,” she said. An exclusive booklet on stress management and other related issues has also been circulated to among healthcare workers and others. Psychological issues of frontline personnel are the fear of exposure of the self to infection and the subsequent possible infection to their family, lack of adequate PPE, fears over quarantine/ isolation, uncertainty of support from the expected quarters, increasing demands at workplace, and the lack of information and communication. Amar Kumar Pandey, additional director general of police (law and order), said many police personnel are getting infected with Covid-19 in Karnataka. “To motivate and boost confidence among policemen, especially those who are infected, the respective police officials are in touch with them and also their families regularly. They are also providing counselling from experts to policemen and their family members,” the ADGP added. Shashidhar Madyal, tahsildar of Hubballi Urban, said after positive cases were found at Mini Vidhana Soudha, many staffers are under the fear of contracting the virus. “We are building confidence among with personal interactions. We are also telling them that we are with them. Such fears are also there among those out on field work,” he said. Dr Ramalingappa Antartani, director of KIMS, said they are counselling the doctors and other health workers, including nursing staff. “As the number of cases are increasing by the day, Many of them are feeling low,” the director said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/psychiatrists-roped-in-to-boost-confidence-among-govt-staff/articleshow/77156371.cms||J Abbas Mulla
July 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Will expose BJP’s double standards’||Gandhinagar: Newly appointed state BJP president C R Paatil’s mega car rally in Surat had to be cancelled after state Congress working president Hardik Patel also sought permission for a rally. The Congress accused the government of adopting double standards. The Congress said permission for protests is not being granted because of the Covid-19 pandemic, while permission for a huge gathering for Paatil’s rally was granted. Hardik Patel said, “As soon as the BJP announced Paatil’s rally in Surat, our leaders demanded permission for a similar rally, forcing the BJP to call off its rally. Even during Paatil’s appointment function, all social distancing and safety norms were compromised at the BJP state headquarters. Hefty fines are being imposed on the common people, while there are no restrictions for ruling party workers.” He added that Congress workers will now demand permission for such rallies across the state. “If the BJP government denies permission, we will not allow any rally by the BJP in the state. We will expose the BJP’s double standards,” Patel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/will-expose-bjps-double-standards/articleshow/77157887.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Kochi||Institutions where people live in groups under surveillance||Kochi: For the past few days, district health officials have been collating information on institutions in Ernakulam where people have been living in groups after Covid-19 positive cases were reported from such places. Details of convents, hostels, old-age homes, orphanages and similar institutions are being collected to bring them under the surveillance of the health department. A chain of positive cases emerging from an old-age home in Thrikkakara and a convent in Keezhmad nudged authorities to monitor similar places as any delay in identifying the first case could trigger a spread. Health officials said neither the Keezhmad convent nor the old-age home in Thrikkakara informed them when their inmates displayed symptoms of the disease at an earlier stage. Covid positive cases at a convent in Keezhmad came to the fore after a nun died of the disease. “Many inmates of the Thrikkakara old-age home had also developed symptoms 17 or 18 days ago but they failed to inform officials concerned despite repeated appeals by the government in this regard. The home in Thrikkakara is a disaster waiting to happen as there are 113 inmates in the institution. Many are bedridden and health officials had to visit their individual rooms to collect swabs. Inmates at such places are more vulnerable considering their advanced age and health conditions. We would collect a list of such institutions and places and test symptomatic inmates. Even if one person is tested positive, inmates of the whole institution will be tested. We have already tested inmates of four institutions, including the old-age home in Thrikkakara and convent in Keezhmad. We have also asked for details of all symptomatic people from similar places,” said a health official in Ernakulam. Meanwhile, identifying places where guest workers live in groups seems to be a herculean task for the administration though many had left for their respective states. “Camps where guest workers reside are also vulnerable. But we don’t have accurate data on such camps in Ernakulam,” said the official. There are 65 old-age homes with 1,638 elderly men and women, 95 orphanages and 19 working women’s hostels in the district. “Currently, 1,012 children are living in 95 institutions. Many returned home when the nationwide lockdown was implemented in March. Also, there are only 100 to 120 people living in hostels,” said an official with women and child development in Ernakulam. Social justice department had already submitted details of inmates at old-age homes to the district administration when Covid-19 positive cases had started emerging in the district. Since then, no new admissions were taken, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/institutions-where-people-live-in-groups-under-surveillance/articleshow/77155061.cms||T C Sreemol
July 25, 2020||Vadodara||Nine SOG sleuths in Vadodara test positive||Vadodara: Nine cops posted in the special operations group (SOG) have tested positive for Covid-19. All the nine have been admitted to the hospital while those who came in touch with them will be tested soon. The police said that many other cops posted in different departments have tested positive too. In the past five days, 20 cops have been reported to be infected. “The SOG sleuths may have got infected when they went to nab a wanted man in Dahod. The accused tested positive for coronavirus following which, the team that nabbed him too was tested,” said Anupam Singh Gahlaut, city police commissioner. Apart from SOG, a prevention of crime branch (PCB), PSI too has tested positive. The driver and commando posted with DCP (zone I), Deepak Meghani, along with four clerical staff posted in the Police Bhavan too have got infected with the virus. “The teams that nab wanted persons are always at the risk of getting infected. Many complainants and applicants turn up at our offices too which exposes our clerical staff to the virus,” Gahlaut said. He said that the police teams are taking maximum precautions while nabbing the accused and their priority is to get them tested before arresting them formally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/nine-sog-sleuths-in-vadodara-test-positive/articleshow/77157734.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Mysuru||Tiger adopted by BKS Iyengar dies in zoo||MYSURU: A tiger which was adopted by yoga guru BKS Iyengar for lifetime, died at the Mysuru zoo on Friday. The tiger named ‘Brahma’ was housed in the zoo for the past 12 years. According to zoo authorities, it was around 20-years-old. In the wild, a tiger’s lifespan is 12 years. Mysuru Zoo executive director Ajit Kulkarni said the tiger was involved in man-animal conflict and was rescued by the forest department on March 18, 2008 from Teralu village in Virajpet taluk in Kodagu district. It was handed over to the Mysuru Zoo Rescue Centre. It was later adopted by Iyengar for lifetime. “Brahma passed away at 3pm on Friday due to old age-related issues. At present the zoo has 10 male and six female tigers under its care,” said Kulkarni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/tiger-adopted-by-bks-iyengar-dies-in-zoo/articleshow/77153240.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Nagpur||64-year-old woman dies of Covid||Wardha: The number of coronavirus patients in the district is increasing daily. On Friday, 10 more coronavirus patients were detected — Wardha (3), Arvi (6) and one from Kandhali village in Samudrapur Tahsil. A 64-year-old woman also died due to coronavirus on Friday at Acharya Vinoba Bhave Rural hospital, Sawangi. Among the infected patients were a 46-year-old man, an 18-year-old youth and a 44-year-old woman from Gandhi Nagar (Wardha), a 60-year-old woman from Kandhali village in Samudrapur, 5 members of a family, resident of Valisahab ward of Arvi, and also a person from Arvi. The 64-year-old woman, a resident of Borgaon (Meghe) tested positive five days ago. She was undergoing treatment at AVBRH, Sawangi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/64-year-old-woman-dies-of-covid/articleshow/77158331.cms||Balwant Dhage
July 25, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Symbolic sacrifice for Bakri Eid not possible, say Muslim Congress leaders||MUMBAI: Unhappy with state government’s “ambiguous” guidelines for Eidul Adha or Bakri Eid, a section of Muslim Congress leaders has rejected chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s suggestion for a “symbolic” qurbani or sacrifice of animals. Bakri Eid falls on August 1 and animal sacrifice is wajib or mandatory for every Muslim who can afford it. After the guidelines were issued this past Friday, former minister Arif Naseem Khan dashed off a letter to Thackeray, requesting him to call an urgent meeting of ministers, both current and former MLAs, and officers for discussion and review. “Qurbani cannot be done symbolically and it is impractical for most people to buy goats online. There is no concept of symbolic sacrifice of animals in Islam and goats are bought after checking their size and health, which is not possible online. The government must issue fresh guidelines as current ones interfere with the religious affairs of Muslims,” said Khan. Congress MLA Amin Patel who was part of recent meetings with senior officials and ministers on the issue, too, said “symbolic” qurbani was unacceptable as Islam did not allow it. “I am for observing social distancing, not crowding, and praying at home on Bakri Eid to help prevent the spread of the pandemic, but Muslims cannot be asked to do qurbani symbolically,” said Patel. Several leaders hit out at the government for issuing “ambiguous” and “confusing” guidelines and even sought NCP chief Sharad Pawar’s intervention. “Neither symbolic qurbani nor purchase of goats online is practical. We are trying to take an appointment with Sharad Pawarji and explain the problems Muslims will face in observing Bakri Eid,” said Samajwadi Party MLA Rais Shaikh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/symbolic-sacrifice-for-bakri-eid-not-possible/articleshow/77159997.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
July 25, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: As Covid-19 deaths spike, ambulance drivers seek furnace at crematorium||MANGALURU: Spike in Covid-19 fatalities and shortage of electric furnace in the city has resulted in increased burden for ambulance drivers, who transport bodies of Covid-19 victims to/and conduct last rites. The district administration has announced that the final rites of Covid-19 victims will be conducted at the Hindu crematorium run by Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) at Boloor. The crematorium has only one electric furnace and it takes at least three hours to use the furnace after a body has been burnt due to protocols put in place for Covid deaths. While the district has been reporting an average of five to eight deaths everyday, bodies of all Hindu victims are taken to Boloor. Drivers of private ambulance fleets say they have to slog till wee hours next day to complete the cremation when there are more than three to four bodies a day. Prasad A, driver of Ganesh Ambulances, told TOI that six out of 13 vehicles owned by his father Gangadhara were given to shift Covid-19 patients and the victims. “We have done nearly 100 trips to shift Covid-19 patients to hospitals and to shift the victims’ body. We have to send two ambulance to shift one body when a person dies of Covid-19. We have submitted several bills, but due to procedural delay most of the bills are pending. We face difficulties at every stage of our work after the pandemic outbreak. Non co-operation of staff in private hospitals during the death of Covid-19 patient and lack of infrastructure at Hindu crematorium at Boloor are the major issues that make our work strenuous,” he said. “On Thursday, we cremated bodies of four Covid-19 victims at Boloor. No one comes near the body when we reach the crematorium. Meanwhile, people in the locality too are not happy with the cremation of Covid-19 victims there. We cannot shift bodies together because of this. Hence, we have to slog till wee hours to complete the cremation when the number of death is more,” Prasad said adding that the city needs at least one more electric furnace. A J Institute gets ICMR nod for testingA J Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Centre has received Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) approval for Covid-19 testing in Dakshina Kannada.The inistitiution obtained the ICMR approval for testing SARS-CoV-2 virus by RT-PCR method recently and testing will begin soon, according to hospital management. It was assessed and accredited by NABL (National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories) for its facilities for medical testing. This has added a boost to the existing Covid-19 testing facilities in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/as-covid-deaths-spike-ambulance-drivers-seek-furnace-at-crematorium/articleshow/77156288.cms||Vinobha K T
July 25, 2020||Mysuru||Elephants at Bannerghatta spotted using twigs to scratch themselves||MYSURU: Picking up an elongated object, with a slightly sharp edge to extricate from fine invisible spaces particularly irritating objects is something that comes instinctively to us, and it is not an uncommon practice among some apes either. But the sight of two elephants adopting a similar tactic to relieve themselves of irritation using twigs left spectators at the Bannerghatta Biological Park (BBP) in Bengaluru staring in amused awe. A 20-year-old tusker Sunder, and a female elephant Menaka, have been spotted multiple times using twigs to scratch their bodies with the aid of their trunks. BBP executive director Vanashri Vipin Singh said that employing an external object for one’s comfort was a phenomenon called ‘tool use’. “Human beings use tools for majority of their daily activities but to what extent have other animals managed to master this? Like humans, other animals too boast cognitive ability of a high order. A twig may not matter much to us, but that is not the case with a rescued elephant at Bannerghatta,” Vanashri said. Bannerghatta is home to 23 Asian elephants, most of which were born in captivity, while some were rescued from temples. Sunder belongs to the latter group, rescued from a temple in Kolhapur in Maharashtra. He has been a resident of Bannerghatta since 2014. “We spotted him using a twig to scratch his ear and mouth, reaching which was proving difficult with his trunk. Menaka too was seen scratching her neck and belly with a twig,” Vanashri added. Although ‘tool use’ was not uncommon among elephants, the complexity of its employment varied between individual specimens, said Vanashri, citing a 2001 study that described the use of tree branches by elephants to ward off flies – observed at the Nagarahole Tiger Reserve. In addition to elephants and apes, crows, a few other birds, dolphins and octopus have also been seen to employ tools in situations they find tricky.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/elephants-at-bannerghatta-spotted-using-twigs-to-scratch-themselves/articleshow/77153431.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
July 25, 2020||Delhi||1km tunnel built through Aravalis for freight trains||NEW DELHI: The DFCC completed construction of the world's first electrified rail tunnel that is fit to run double stack containers through Aravalis in Sohna on Friday. The work on this one-km tunnel on Western Dedicated Freight Corridor was completed in less than a year despite the Covid pandemic. The tunnel is located on the Rewari-Dadri section of the corridor. The tunnel has provision for double line electrified track for double stacks train movement, the Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation (DFCC) said. It said geologically this tunnel is safe and stable as it is caved through 250 to 500 million year old proterozoic rocks which have high bearing capacity. Double stack containers and 25 tonne axle load freight trains will run through this tunnel at a speed of 100 kmph. The tunnel connects Mewat and Gurgaon district of Haryana and negotiates a steep gradient on the uphill and downhill slope of the Aravalli range. The Western DFC and most parts of the Eastern DFC are slated for completion in June 2022, which will make the movement of freight trains seamless.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/1km-tunnel-built-through-aravalis-for-freight-trains/articleshow/77158852.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Guwahati||Assam labourer sells 15-day-old daughter, police rescue baby||KOKRAJHAR (ASSAM): Driven by extreme poverty and lack of work during the Covid-19 crisis, a migrant labourer in Assam sold his 15-day-old daughter for Rs 45,000 but police rescued the baby, officials said on Friday. The man and two women have been arrested on the charge of human trafficking. Dipak Brahma, a resident of Dhantola Mandaria, a forest village in Kokrajhar district, had recently returned from Gujarat, where he worked as a labourer. He was jobless and finding it hard to support his family, according to an official of an NGO working against human trafficking. After his return, the family started living at the house of his in-laws in Kochugaon Patakata village in the same district. The family still lived a hand-to-mouth existence, neighbours said. During these tough times, Brahma's wife gave birth to the girl, their second daughter. Their elder daughter is a year old, Nedan Foundation chairman Digambar Narzary said. “Brahma tried to find a job during the pandemic but it was hard to come by. With almost all doors to earn a living closed, Brahma decided to sell the newborn,” he added. The man sold his daughter to two women for just Rs 45,000 on July 2 but kept his wife in dark, Narzary said. Brahma's wife and villagers lodged a complaint at Kochugaon police station after they came to know about it later. “On receiving the complaint, police swung into action and rescued the baby from the two sisters. We also arrested the man (Brahma),” police said. During interrogation, the two women claimed that they had bought the baby for a childless couple related to them. “We are really thankful to the police for rescuing the baby. But the issue is of very serious nature. Because of the lockdown, poor people do not have any work. The situation is getting worse for those living in forest villages,” Narzary said. Lakhs of labourers returned to their homes in Assam from large cities outside the state after they became jobless during the lockdown. Though the state government had announced that it will create job opportunities for them through various initiatives, including under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), the Covid-19 outbreak has badly hit most economic activities in the state. People are facing the double whammy of the pandemic and floods which have created havoc in the state. A total of 28.32 lakh people in 26 of the state's 33 districts have been affected by the deluge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/assam-labourer-sells-15-day-old-daughter-police-rescue-baby/articleshow/77155074.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Mumbai||Anand Mahindra, citizens queue up to help do-gooder couple rebuild savings in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Industrialist Anand Mahindra has offered to help a Malad couple who exhausted their Rs 4 lakh savings to buy rations for nearly 1,500 people during the Covid-19 lockdown. TOI had reported on Friday about Faiyaz and Mizga Shaikh, who dipped into their provident fund and money they had set aside to buy a house, to make donations at Malwani’s densely-populated Ambhujwadi. Readers from across the country, including senior citizens, responded with offers to contribute to their cause. The Shaikhs said they were blessed to receive much appreciation for their work. “We will continue giving away ration kits till the lockdown lifts. Several residents have told us that they wouldn’t need donations once they can commute to work,” said Faiyaz. Couldn’t bring myself to swipe down after seeing this.Don’t know many people-wealthy or otherwise-who’d donate thei… https://t.co/hZnKQeWH4M— anand mahindra (@anandmahindra) 1595590869000Devang Bhandari, a partner with professional services network KPMG, wrote to TOI on Friday asking for the couple’s bank details so he could help out in whatever capacity. ‘Would have starved without ration distributed by Shaikhs’Couldn’t bring myself to swipe down after seeing this. Don’t know many people-wealthy or otherwisewho’d donate their home savings for a cause. If the @timesofindia journalist who covered this vouches for its accuracy, it’ll be my privilege to compensate the couple for their loss,” tweeted Mahindra in response to the TOI report. Among others who offered to contribute monetarily was a systems engineer in Bengaluru employed with a consultancy, a teacher in Pune, non-profit groups and senior citizens. “It felt great to read such a positive story amid the gloomy times we are living in,” Bhandari said. Mizga, who runs a school out of five rooms in Ambhujwadi, had waived off students’ fees for three months when she found out their parents, most of whom are daily wagers, had no income during the lockdown. On learning that some students did not have enough food, she and her husband spoke to family friends and colleagues, pooling in money to purchase dry rations. A non-profit group chipped in for some two months, serving khichdi to residents. Thereafter, Faiyaz and Mizga spent their personal savings to purchase and distribute ration kits, not just for their students but other residents as well. Ambhujwadi resident Shabana Shah said she had been able to run her house during the lockdown only thanks to the Shaikhs. “I work as a house maid and have two kids to look after. My husband is an alcoholic and the lockdown has prevented me from going to any of my employers’ homes for work. We would have died of starvation had the Shaikhs not distributed rations six to seven times in four months,” said Shah. Auto driver Sageer Ahmed said every kit of rations lasts them a fortnight. “I fractured my hand just days after the lockdown and I’m in no condition to drive even now. My wife is a tailor, but has got no new orders in the lockdown. We have five children to feed and couldn’t have done anything without the generosity of the Shaikhs,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mahindra-citizens-queue-up-to-help-do-gooder-couple-rebuild-savings/articleshow/77159990.cms||Nitasha Natu
July 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Home run? Get online, not in line||NEW DELHI: Buying and registering property will soon be a hassle-free experience, all thanks to the “ease of doing business” initiative of Delhi government. Plans are afoot to launch an integrated web portal where users would be able to view, request and apply for property registration. The single-window portal would also integrate online applications of different government agencies and departments. Those buying property would be able to search for maps, land records and download papers by clicking on the same window without any pop-up or web page migration. People would also be able to raise support queries or submit KYC documents, pay their property tax or apply for permissions and make online appointments for property registration. Any registered and authorised user would be able to view information and download permitted documents. Portal users would be able to view ownership details and registry chain of property and obtain certified copy of documents by making payments through the gateway. Details of mortgage or loan on property, arrears of property tax, water tax, other utilities, etc would also be available, apart from status of land acquisition, litigation in revenue or civil courts, location of property, and other information needed for registration of property at the office of the sub-registrar. It would also be possible to view and download land records, including certified digitally signed maps from land record agencies. For creation of the integrated web portal, Delhi government’s urban development department is in the process of engaging an agency for design, development and maintenance. Developing the web portal is expected to cost around Rs 25 lakh. At present, various departments of the Centre and Delhi government connected with property registration have their own online applications. These include revenue department, the three municipal corporations, Delhi Development Authority, New Delhi Municipal Council, Land & Development Office, Delhi Cantonment Board, Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation, among others. Developed at different times, these applications have different functionalities and use different technologies and types of databases. Delhi government’s property registration web portal will have full integration with the departments and different software applications. The services would include e-search for verification of title, encumbrances (property tax dues, utility bills, status of court cases), cadastral maps, mortgage details, acquisition details, etc. The integrated portal would also have the provision for auto updating changes in ownership, mortgage status, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/one-web-page-solution-to-property-registration-soon/articleshow/77160004.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 25, 2020||Goa||GFP questions haste in holding municipal polls||Panaji: Goa Forward Party (GFP) on Friday questioned the need to go ahead with municipal elections when the state government is struggling to get a grip on the Covid-19 pandemic. GFP president Vijai Sardesai said that the state government’s recommendation to the state election commission (SEC) to hold the elections on October 18 is a sign of misplaced priorities. Sardesai also said that the distribution of the homeopathic immunity boosting pills was part of BJP’s preparations for the municipal elections. “Does the state government have the guarantee that Covid will go away by October 18? There are ministry of home affairs guidelines which say that political gatherings are prohibited, so how can there be elections?” Sardesai said. The former deputy chief minister said that the state government had shown a similar haste in conducting the zilla panchayat elections. He also questioned if the government had thought about the process and protocol for door-to-door campaigning and political rallies. “There was politicisation when the immunity boosting pills were distributed only through the BJP karyakartas. At the municipal level, government officers have disrupted the garbage collection and solid waste management systems to give the council a bad name. Now the new thing is a campaign to promote tourism in Goa but from what I heard, this is a campaign to promote the chief minister,” he said. Sardesai said that the SEC should have taken the first step to delay the elections due to the Covid crisis. Though the term of the 11 municipal councils will come to an end on November 4, Sardesai said that the Supreme Court has held that in case of emergencies elections can be postponed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-questions-haste-in-holding-municipal-polls/articleshow/77159998.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Varanasi||Now, 199 Ballia jail inmates test corona positive in Uttar Pradesh||VARANASI: A day after 70 inmates tested positive for Covid-19 in Jhansi jail, as many as 199 inmates, including a woman, tested positive in the Ballia district jail on Friday. This took the tally of Corona positive inmates in the district jail to 227 in the past two days. Jail superintendent Prashant Kumar Maurya said, "The infected prisoners have been accommodated in separate barracks in the jail. They are being given medication and food as per the instruction of the health department.” The woman inmate has been admitted to the L-1 hospital at Basantpur, he added. The jail administration said that during an antigen test of 817 inmates, 199 tested positive for the virus including one staff. There are 1,049 inmates in Ballia prison. With Ballia’s tally, the total number of prisoners infected in the state reached 486. Besides, 25 jail staff, too, have tested positive. All the prisoners were tested through rapid antigen kits and samples of those tested negative have been sent for confirmatory RT-PCR Test Soon after ten inmates had tested positive in Agra Central Jail on May 15, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had instructed all the districts to make temporary jails. A communique was also issued by the home department in connection with the same. However, when TOI spoke to Ballia DM Shrihari Pratap Shahi, he accepted that there was no facility of temporary jail in the district. He also explained that it was only for ‘Tablighi Jamaatis’. Shahi further told TOI that large-scale mass sampling was done in the jail after which 16 inmates tested positive for the virus on July 22. Following that, we organised a larger camp of 20 medical teams and got a maximum number of inmates tested, he said. He also said that a slew of measures have been taken to limit the spread of the virus. “Of the total eight barracks, three barracks would be made as isolation wards, for those coming from outside. While, a team of the health department has been asked to deploy its unit inside the prison,” he said. Meanwhile, 80 more inmates of Jhansi prison tested positive for coronavirus taking the tally to 207 in all. On July 23, as many as 70 inmates had tested positive for the virus. Prison department officials said that all the 1109 prisons have now been tested in the district jail, while three jail officials have tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/now-199-ballia-jail-inmates-test-corona-positive/articleshow/77160001.cms||Binay Singh
July 25, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Four-member panel to track Covid deaths||CHENNAI: In the wake of allegations of under reporting of Covid deaths, the Tamil Nadu government has set up a four-member committee to continuously scrutinize and reconcile the Covid-19 death report on a weekly basis so that omissions could be avoided. The committee headed by the director of medical and rural health services, has director of medical education and director of public health and preventive medicine and corporation city health officer as members. “The district collectors are instructed to coordinate and ensure that the Covid-19 death reports are properly recorded on daily basis in each district without any omission, in consultation with the local bodies and ensure its submission to the state health department for its eventual notification,” chief secretary K Shanmugam told district collectors in an order. The collectors are mandated to verify the daily death report received from all government hospitals and private hospitals regarding Covid-19 death. They will have to compare it with the local bodies’ record, maintained for cremation or burial, to ensure that there is no omission in reporting Covid-19 death in future, the officer said. The committee has been directed to reiterate the instructions with reference to the health institutions, hospitals in all the districts, and should scrupulously follow the guidelines of the Union government and the Indian Council of Medical Research, while submitting the death report of Covid-19 patients in future. A reconciliation committee constituted by the director of public health and preventive medicine earlier had a detailed case by case verification of all 820 deaths of positive cases that took place between March 1 and July 9, reported by the Greater Chennai Corporation, and the reports of director of medical education and director of medical and rural health services. It was found that 444 deaths, that were part of the line-list maintained by the director of public health and preventive medicine, were not included in the daily media bulletin. All 402 hospital deaths were due to co-morbid conditions, in addition to being Covid-19 positive, while 42 were home and transit deaths. In his four-hour long video conference with the district collectors on Friday, the chief secretary also gave directions to rationalize the tests with better prioritisation since some districts were found to be conducting excessive tests, while the others less. “He told the collectors to get help from the community leaders and volunteers in containment areas to impress upon the need for observing containment measures. Some collectors requested repatriation of medical personnel deputed to Chennai for which the chief secretary told the health department to work out a solution immediately,” said an official. Shanmugam asked collectors to make use of the fever camps effectively and suggested pooled testing among factory workers and international flight passengers, where positivity rate is likely to be less than 5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/4-member-panel-to-track-covid-deaths/articleshow/77158822.cms||Julie Mariappan
July 25, 2020||Puducherry||Tamil Nadu: Kids get noon meal at this ‘verandah’ school||VILLUPURAM: A private school in Tindivanam, Thaai Tamil Palli, has implemented ‘micro classrooms’ that follows the concept of ‘thinnai palli koodam’ (verandah classrooms) in houses and conducting classes in two shifts. All students attending classes will be provided with free nutritious noon meal as well.  The school will provide education to class I to VIII for 154 students, all from economically poor families. The classrooms will be in 11 homes, mostly in their front porticos or outside, providing space for students for their noon meal too. In response to an article published in The Times of India on July 20, on the lockdown in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic denying lakhs of children nutritious food, the Madras high court directed the Tamil Nadu government to take a serious view of the issue and ensure children get free nutritious meals. Educational activist and founder of Thaai Tamil Pillai Prabha Kalvimani told TOI that the ‘micro classroom’ concept was a thesis prepared by Tamil writers Vizhiyan and Senthamil Selvan as an alternative to online classes and to reduce dropout of students even when normalcy returns.  “We rolled out the micro classroom system a week ago, during the birth anniversary celebrations of K Kamaraj who reformed the education system in Tamil Nadu.” Said Kalvimani. He had forwarded an application to Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, education minister and the principal secretary, education about the new system.  “We handed over representations to the Villupuram district collector and to the block education officer in person. We got no response. But we are running it successfully for the past nine days,” said Kalvimani. “My desire is to see all government schools in the state open up to the novel micro classroom concept so they can serve healthy food to the students as well,” he said.  For this experiment, the Thaai Tamil Palli management chose Roshanai, a backward area in Tindivanam town which houses 1,500 dalit families who could not afford quality education for their children. School headmaster A Maria Anthony said, “To implement the micro classrooms, we needed the support of the parents. So, we held four rounds of talks and started working on the concept.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/kids-get-noon-meal-at-this-verandah-school/articleshow/77158834.cms||Karal Marx
July 25, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Two members of gang held with 10kg heroin||NEW DELHI: Two men who are allegedly members of an international drug syndicate that has been sourcing heroin from Myanmar for distribution in the capital have been arrested by the Special Cell. Police seized 10kg of heroin worth Rs 40 crore concealed in a hidden cavity behind the wheel of an i-20. The drug dealers drove the car to Delhi from Assam. Police said that the men had welded a metal sheet under the vehicle to create the cavity just behind the rear wheel of the car. One had to remove the mud-guard cover from behind the wheel to expose it. The accused told the cops that in order to avoid detection, they used to change the colour of their vehicle after each trip to Delhi. DCP (Special Cell) Sanjeev Yadav said that the two men, Mohammad Ishak and Mohammad Iqbal Khan, are residents of Manipur and had come to Delhi to deliver the drugs to one Najim near the Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar in outer Delhi. “They were carrying a backpack that contained around 6kgs of drugs while the rest was seized from the car. The team that was tracking them intercepted them when their contact did not turn up,” said DCP Yadav. Probe revealed that the car belonged to Iqbal’s brother-in-law, who is a transporter in Manipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-members-of-gang-held-with-10kg-heroin/articleshow/77158868.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Goa||Goa: Usgao decides to observe lockdown till Monday||PONDA: After the administration declared Siddheshwarnagar and Avantinagar wards of Tisk-Usgao village as containment zones on Wednesday, the villagers of Usgao started observing a voluntary lockdown to contain the further spread of coronavirus. Although areas surrounding the two wards have been declared as buffer zones, locals across the village have been observing a total lockdown. “We fear the infection may reach our houses, and so inorder to break the chain we have declared the lockdown,” said a villager. This is the second time that the villagers of Usgao are observing a seld-imposed lockdown. The lockdown will continue till Monday, after which the villagers said they will review the situation and accordingly decide whether it should be extended or not. The South Goa collector had declared the two areas in Tisk-Usgao as containment zones after 27 persons from seven families contracted the virus. All those who have tested positive are migrants residing in rented rooms, said sources. Health officer of the Dharbandora primary health centre Dr Sandesh Madkaikar said that as per reports of swabs drawn on Tuesday, two persons from Siddheshwarnagar and one from Marutigad have tested positive. The reports of swabs collected on Wednesday and Thursday are awaited. Meanwhile, the Madras Rubber Factory (MRF) at Dhatwada-Usgao on Friday carried out the sanitisation of Sidheshwarnagar and Avantinagar. Ponda joint mamlatdar Kaushik Desai, Usgao-Ganjem deputy sarpanch Ramnath Dangui and MRF plant head Gautam Raj were present while the two wards were being sanitised. The sanitisation process will continue on Saturday, said MRF officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/usgao-decides-to-observe-lockdown-till-monday/articleshow/77160017.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
July 25, 2020||Pune||Shops reopen after 10 days, P1/P2 norms still a worry||Pune: Shopkeepers resumed business on Friday mostly in accordance with the P1/P2 norms, but not without confusion caused by the sight of barricades still dotting some parts of the city. The 10-day total lockdown of the city ended on Thursday, bringing back into effect the earlier, more relaxed lockdown. Among other things, the administration allowed shops and market places to function in non-containment zones under the P1/P2 system. Traders on thoroughfares such as Laxmi Road and FC Road functioned in accordance with the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) alternate-day operation guidelines, but several shops were seen open on either sides of Tilak Road and Baner Road and in the Kothrud area. The Federation of Trade Association of Pune (FTAP) has been opposing the P1/P2 system. Many traders said they were trying to figure out the roads and shop directions to decide on the P1/P2 system. Though the markets opened, traders said the day bought little business because customers generally stayed away. Salunke Vihar Road, for example, saw unusually low rush on Friday. “It is a big relief that establishments have opened up. Since the timings are flexible, people are not rushing out to buy essentials. Traffic in the area was chaotic because many vendors selling vegetables and other items have set up makeshift shops along the road,” local resident Somesh Dixit said. Murtuza Poonawalla, a footwear trader in Budhwar Peth, said though the traffic was more or less normal, the shops did not see much footfall. He expressed concern over the commute hassle caused by the barricades. Prasanna Parmar, a trader from Timber Market, said, “I had to reach my warehouse at Wakad, but a lot of roads were still blocked on Friday morning. Even the Lakdi Pul was blocked in the morning. I had to look for detours. At Chandni Chowk, only half the road was open. Vehicles took the wrong side to get on to the Katraj Dehu Road bypass.” A trader from Laxmi Road said, “We have shops here for decades. We know the alternative roads. But most customers do not know those roads.” Shops on both sides of Paud Road remained open on Friday The barricades near Chandni Chowk were removed. A restaurant owner said, “We cannot afford more lockdowns and the P1/P2 norms. We are depending on the few takeaways.” (With inputs from Joy Sengupta & Aditya Waikul)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shops-reopen-after-10-days-p1/p2-norms-still-a-worry/articleshow/77158880.cms||Rujuta Parekh
July 25, 2020||Trichy||IMA Trichy suggests intense lockdown in district for 2 weeks||Trichy: Indian medical association (IMA), Trichy branch, on Thursday, asked the Trichy district administration to go into a complete lockdown for minimum two weeks in Trichy district to control the ‘community spread’ as Covid-19 cases are surging.A delegation led by president of IMA, Trichy, Dr R Gunasekaran, met Trichy collector S Sivarasu and submitted a representation to him. In the letter, Gunasekaran stated a message and feedback from frontline doctors of Trichy to request the collector for a complete lockdown to control the ‘community spread of the pandemic’.With the fresh positive cases on the rise every other day, Gunasekaran stated, “There is also likelihood of high prevalence of asymptomatic carriers, who could spread the disease exponentially in the community.” Reiterating the fact that the beds in the private hospitals approved for treating Covid-19 patients were fully occupied, Gunasekaran said that the diagnostic centres were also facing a lot of practical difficulties in handling the patients. “In order to bring down the spread of the virus, we recommend the district administration for an immediate lockdown for at least two weeks ,” he said on Friday. Empathizing about the socio-economic implications and hardships, IMA maintained that the survival would be paramount for everyone. “We may err in our projection; in that case let us err on the safer side. It is better to be safe than to be sorry,” the representation stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ima-trichy-suggests-intense-lockdown-in-district-for-2-weeks/articleshow/77160009.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Pune||Flyover demolition, ‘forgotten’ barricades spark congestion in Pune||PUNE: Chaos, confusion and congestion marked the first day of the post-lockdown period on Friday, with the demolition of flyovers and improper removal of barricades contributing to the problem. The congestion was most severe at Savitribai Phule Pune University junction and its adjoining areas as people came out in large numbers since the lockdown ended on Thursday. Barricades were erected at several crucial entry/exit points on University road to divert traffic while the demolition of the SPPU and E-Square flyovers is in progress and, long snaking lines of vehicles could be seen at Aundh Road, Baner Road, Pashan Road, Ganeshkhind Road, Model Colony and a section of Senapati Bapat Road. Police said the traffic was heavy especially during the peak hours. “There was slow-moving traffic between noon and 6pm. We expect the situation to remain the same until the demolition work is completed and vehicles can use regular routes,” assistant police inspector Prakash More of Chatushrungi traffic division said. Many motorists complained that it took them an inordinate amount of time to cover short distances. “I had to turn into a congested Model Colony and then join heavy traffic on Senapati Bapat Road. It took me nearly 30 minutes to go from there to Pashan Road,” Baner Resident Pooja Jadhav said. Deccan resident Yash Jalan said Friday’s rain only worsened the situation by causing waterlogging. “What is the rationale behind doing this right in the middle of the monsoon? The problems will only increase once the construction work starts,” Jalan said. Officials from Pune Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (PMRDA) said the flyovers should be pulled down by the first week of August. “Despite the 10-day lockdown, we didn’t have too much leeway as there people were still out on the roads,” a PMRDA official said. Meanwhile, barricades out in place for the 10-day lockdown were not removed from the roads in many areas, affecting traffic flow. “An intersection leading to Salunke Vihar Road was still blocked. I took a detour, but that road was congested due to the blockade,” Neeta Sharan, a resident, said. Many residents said the situation was similar on many other roads. “With traffic jams, social distancing goes for a toss,” one resident said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/flyover-demolition-forgotten-barricades-spark-congestion/articleshow/77158867.cms||Rujuta Parekh
July 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat ATS nabs three alleged naxalites||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat ATS late on Friday nabbed three alleged naxalites including a woman from Vyara and Dahod. In-charge SSP, ATS, Deepan Bhadran said that among the arrested are Samu Oraya, his brother Birsa Oraya and the woman Badiya Katachap. They were part of the Pathalgadi struggle in 2016 in Jharkhand. Katachap was arrested from near Mahisagar in Dahod. Sources confirmed that the naxalites disguised as locals had been staying in Vyara and Dahod for about four months . ATS sources said they had been working in local factories and had changed their identities. ATS officials said they were inciting the tribals against the government. ATS said that though no weapons have been found from them, literature teaching violent ways to overthrow the elected government was found. Bhadran said as the accused were preaching naxalism they have been booked for planning to overthrow a government under Sections 121 A, 124 A, 153 A and 120 B of IPC. “We have seized laptops and mobile phones from them and analyzing the data. We suspect more of their associates are hiding in Gujarat,” said Bhadran. Bhadran added the trio are wanted in Jharkhand for serious offences like murder and kidnapping.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/3-alleged-naxalites-held/articleshow/77157144.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Guwahati||Tap water to reach all rural areas by 2022, says Conrad||SHILLONG: Chief minister Conrad K. Sangma on Friday said that the state government has set its target to provide household tap connections across all rural areas in Meghalaya by December, 2022 under the Jal Jeevan Mission funded by the Union ministry of Jal Shakti, which envisages providing safe and adequate drinking water through individual household tap connections by 2024 to all households in rural India. The programme will also implement source sustainability measures as mandatory elements, such as recharge and reuse through grey water management, water conservation and rain water harvesting. “The Jal Jeevan Mission will be based on a community approach to water and will include extensive information, education and communication as a key component. JJM looks to create a ‘jan andolan’ for water, thereby making it everyone’s priority,” an official statement said. In a consultative meeting with DCs of all districts in presence of PHE minister Samlin Malgniang, the CM stressed on the need to decentralize works on a mission mode and ensure that the targets are achieved in the period set by the state government. Stating that the implementation of the scheme is a massive exercise and involves complete attention by the stakeholders for its successful completion, he said, “The Centre has given us an assurance that funding for the implementation of the scheme will not be an issue. However, we need to ensure accountability and execution of the works as mandated by the programme.” According to official estimates, by 2022, the scheme will cover 5,89,888 households in 6,415 villages. This year alone, the scheme will cover 2,04,036 villages spread across 11 districts of the state, while the target for 2021-22 is 2,61,226 villages and for the 2022-2023 is 1,18,347 villages. Ri-Bhoi being an ‘aspirational district’, the department has set the target of covering 55,735 households within this financial year, which will ensure 100 per cent coverage for the district. Conrad has directed all the DCs to ensure submission of data from the village-level on a real-time basis so that it is reflected on the CM’s dashboard for effective monitoring.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/tap-water-to-reach-all-rural-areas-by-2022-says-conrad/articleshow/77155212.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Delhi||Tyre market ravaged in northeast Delhi riots back in business||NEW DELHI: Northeast Delhi was burning on February 24, and it was on this fateful day that Raeesuddin got a WhatsApp video message that nearly stopped his heart. The Gokulpuri tyre and automobile parts market, where he had a shop for the past 20 years, had been set ablaze. He was unable to sleep at night as he couldn’t go to the market for fear of getting attacked by a mob. At dawn, he rushed there and found his shop intact. However, his happiness was short-lived as another mob went on the rampage again in the morning. He saw his shop roof collapse on television as fire engulfed the market located next to Gokulpuri metro station. In all, 224 shops were ransacked and burnt. In the past five months, the shop owners not only braved rising debt, but also failed to reconstruct their shops and resume business owing to the lockdown. But fate smiled on them on July 24 when their renovated market was reopened for business. The renovation was carried out with the help of Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind. Not only were the soot-filled and charred shops whitewashed and repaired, but a small mosque within the market complex was also renovated. Special prayers were held there on Friday for communal amity. “As a sign of gratitude, we have decided to rename it as Jamiat tyre market,” said Mohammad Rashid, president of the tyre market association. Rashid (40) was one of the few who had come to the market on February 25, a night after the arson. “The gloomy sight was enough to dash our hopes as our source of earning had been destroyed. Even as fire raged on in a few shops, police were absent. Before we could protect the other shops, a mob arrived from Gokulpuri village side and began to shoot at us. We left our vehicles and ran to safety,” he said. Mehrajuddin, who was accompanying Rashid, not only lost his tyre shop, but also the scooter on which he had rushed there from his Old Delhi home. “These five months were the toughest in my life. I had to take loans from people to survive. While the Jamiat helped reopen our shops, we never got the Rs 5 lakh compensation promised by the government,” said the 52-year-old man. Most shops that reopened on Friday had new materials, which the shopkeepers had bought for making a fresh start. Abdul Fahim (33) had opened his bike parts shop nine years ago. After it was engulfed by fire, his stock turned to cinders. “I had to take a loan to restart my business. It may take over a year for things to get normal as many people are still wary of coming to the market because of the trauma they faced during those violent days,” he added. Jamiat general secretary Hakeemuddin Qasmi said, “We have been working with the authorities to help renovate the homes, shops and religious places that were damaged in the violence.” Northeast district magistrate Shashi Kaushal called the reopening of the market an “auspicious day”. “We hope communal harmony in our society grows. Those affected by the violence will be given compensation soon,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tyre-market-ravaged-in-riots-back-in-business/articleshow/77160021.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
July 25, 2020||Mumbai||‘Allegations serious, so no bail for Rana’||Mumbai: In a detailed order rejecting the bail plea of Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor (62) in the money-laundering case involving Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL) promoters Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan, the special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court said that the crime involved laundering of huge amounts of public money making the allegations serious. “Having regards to those aspects, nature of allegations...the fact that further investigation is still in progress and most importantly, the fact that there allegations about laundering public money by hatching conspiracy, this court is of the opinion that this is not a fit case to exercise discretion for directing release of the accused on bail,” the court said. While the bail plea was rejected on Tuesday, the detailed order copy was made available on Friday. Special counsels for the Enforcement Directorate (ED), Hiten Venegaonkar and Sunil Gonsalves, had opposed Kapoor’s bail plea and submitted that the investigations about the layering of funds were still in progress and there are fears that he may influence witnesses. The court accepted the submissions. The court further pointed out that though punishment prescribed for offence under Section 4 of the PMLA was only seven years’ imprisonment, the involvement of public money shows that the charge against Kapoor is serious in nature. The ED has submitted that Kapoor had accepted kickback from DHFL and those kickback amounts had been utilized by him for acquiring properties overseas. The investigating agency had future said that Kapoor had knowingly indulged in laundering the proceeds of crime to the tune of Rs 5,050 crore by committing offences in collusion with the Wadhawans. The court said that these allegations are prima facie supported by the statements Kapoor, his family members and other witnesses have given. “Considering the material and definition of proceeds of crime, I could not find any force in the argument of the advocate for accused, at least at this stage, that amounts allegedly received by the accused cannot be termed as kickback amounts...” the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/allegations-serious-so-no-bail-for-rana/articleshow/77158968.cms||Rebecca Samervel
July 25, 2020||Nagpur||City’s biomedical waste up 43% in last 2 months||Nagpur: With the rising number of coronavirus cases in Nagpur, the biomedical waste generated in the state’s second capital has increased by about 43% in the last two months. As per NMC’s solid waste management data, the city generated around 4,277kg biomedical waste per day in June and 4,689kg per day in May, respectively. Before the pandemic outbreak, the city used to generate about 3,136kg biomedical waste a day. “The spike in the generation of biomedical waste is a result of waste from quarantine centres and containment zones in the city. Also, since the number of Covid-19 cases are rising, the amount of biomedical waste is also increasing. We have one private agency which collects such waste, and it has been instructed to pick up the waste each day on time and take it to incinerators for scientific disposal,” said deputy municipal commissioner (solid waste management) Dr Pradip Dasarwar. According to Dr Dasarwar, the department is carefully monitoring the lifting and disposal of Covid-19 related biomedical waste. The civic body has entrusted a private agency to collect biomedical waste from over 1,800 institutions, including 632 private hospitals/clinics, outpatient departments, pathology laboratories, radiology centres etc. The agency collects the waste from these institutions, which is treated at a centre in Bhandewadi dumping yard, while Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) and Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) have their own biomedical waste disposal facilities. Officials said biomedical waste generation came down in March and April, after most private hospitals and clinics remained shut due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. The average generation of biomedical waste during these two months was recorded at 1,873kg per day. As per the data, the city generated 1,45,374kg biomedical waste in May, while in June it reduced to 1,28,322kg. To a query, an official handling biomedical waste said that in May, the NMC used to treat leftover food packets and water bottles — among other things — from quarantine centres as biomedical waste. All of this led to an increase in the quantity of biomedical waste in the city. “The firm has already been working in the city for safe disposal of biomedical waste. Our officials are also tracking the lifting of biomedical waste and that it is disposed of regularly without delay. If the number of Covid cases rise, the generation of biomedical waste will also increase in the future,” Dr Dasarwar said. Categories---May---June Covid---57,951---40,153 Non-Covid---87,423---88,169 (Biomedical waste in kg)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/citys-biomedical-waste-up-43-in-last-2-months/articleshow/77157223.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 25, 2020||Guwahati||Cop suspended for beating up differently abled child in Guwahati||GUWAHATI: A 16-year-old differently abled child was allegedly beaten up by police in Bharalumukh area of Guwahati on Thursday night, which triggered widespread outrage. The 16-year-old child had to face the wrath of the cops for venturing out during curfew, enforced in Guwahati from 6 pm-6 am, to check the rising cases of Covid-19. Palash Chaliha, father of the child, said they had ventured out because his son, who suffers from celebral palsy, needed medical attention. A constable had wielded the stick on the child at the city’s Bharalumukh area. The incident came to light after Chaliha uploaded a video on Facebook that showed injury marks on the back of his son who was in excruciating pain. The video has gone viral on social media with over 4,000 likes and 5,000 shares. “My son was beaten up by a policeman who did not ask us any question. When I took up the matter with the officer-in-charge (of a police station), he threatened to put both of us in the lock-up,” Chaliha said in the video. “The police officer did not understand the Assamese language. I was explaining in Assamese but he did not understand,” he added. Within 24 hours of the incident, Assam Police while taking cognizance of the incident suspended Mukut Bania, PSO (personal security officer) under Guwahati Police Commissionerate for the brutalities committed on the child. The suspension order issued by deputy commissioner of police (admin) stated, “Mukut Bania of Police reserve, Guwahati is placed under suspension from today for his indiscipline conduct pending departmental enquiry against him.” Earlier in the day, GP Singh, additional director general of police, visited the house of the child and expressed regrets on his behalf and on behalf of the Assam Police. He also said that all personnel will be sensitised to avoid the recurrence of such incidents. “Reference Facebook post of Sri Palash Chaliha regarding policeman beating up Sri Chaliha's child, who also happens to be a special child. Please rest assured action would be taken against the erring policeman. No compromise on such issues,” Singh tweeted. In another tweet, he said, “I’ve visited the home of Sri Palah Chaliha and conveyed regrets on behalf of @assampolice and my personal apology to the family, especially the child.” Singh said the inquiry was ordered by Guwahati police commissioner Munna Prasad Gupta to ascertain the causative factors and the incident itself to take further action. Dr. Sunita Changkakati, chairperson of Assam State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, while taking cognizance of the incident under section 13 of the Commissions for Protection of Child Rights Act, 2005, wrote to the Assam DGP, asking him to take necessary action to initiate an enquiry into the matter and take appropriate action against the concerned officer under provisions of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/cop-suspended-for-beating-up-differently-abled-child/articleshow/77155220.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Guwahati||British royals upset over devastation in Kaziranga, write to park director||JORHAT: The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have written to Kaziranga National Park (KNP) director P Sivakumar, saying that “they were heartbroken to hear about the appalling devastation to the park and its precious wildlife caused by the very heavy monsoon flooding.” Prince William and his wife, Catherine, had visited Kaziranga during their visit to India in April, 2016. “We received a letter from the Kensington Palace on Wednesday and shared it in the media today after discussing the matter with the British high commissioner to India,” said Sivakumar. The letter reads, “We have the happiest memories of our visit to Kaziranga in April, 2016 and are shocked by what has happened. The death of so many animals, including one- horned rhino, is deeply upsetting. We know from our visit how dedicated all the staff is Kaziranga are in caring for the park’s wildlife, and can only begin to imagine what a difficult time this must be. Catherine and I greatly admire all the work that you and the rangers at Kaziranga are doing to risk your own safety, rescue animals and contain the damage.” It further added, “The loss of life and livelihoods in Assam as a result of flooding, coming on top of the Covid-19 pandemic, is deeply distressing. We offer our deepest condolences to all those affected.” The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, on their maiden visit to India and Bhutan, had travelled 70km by road from Tezpur to reach Kaziranga in the spring of 2016. The focus of the Kaziranga visit was to look at the role conservation plays in the lives of rural people. They visited some of the locals who had been shifted and rehabilitated to minimize animal-human conflict in the fringe areas of the park. After spending a night at the Kaziranga jungle resort on the night of April 12, coinciding with Bohag Bihu, they took a morning safari the following morning in a jeep. They met forest rangers and other officials to learn about the conservation initiatives of the park to preserve the fragile eco-system of the landscape ravaged by floods every year. Elephant Family, a charity patronized by their Royal Highnesses, Prince Charles and his wife, the Duchess of Cornwall, Camilla, have been aiding many initiatives to secure corridors for elephants in the Kaziranga-Karbi Anglong region. State forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya took to his Twitter handle to share the letter of the British royal family. Attaching the letter in his post, Suklabaidya wrote, “My sincere gratitude towards His Royal Highness Prince William & Kensington Palace for their deep concern on the flood situation of Kaziranga National Park & Tiger Reserve. Your admiring words towards the ever dedicated staff of KNP will empower them with more encouragement for safeguarding the park.” Kaziranga has lost 126 animals, including 13 rhinos, in floods till Friday evening. Divisional forest officer (Kaziranga) Ramesh Gogoi said, “The rhino which was seen straying on NH-37 in the Bandardubi area since July 17 was found dead at the edge of Deopani river by the forest staff of Dusuti camp in Bagori at 11 am on Friday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/british-royals-upset-over-devastation-caused-by-floods-at-kaziranga-natl-park/articleshow/77155227.cms||Anup Dutta
July 25, 2020||Mumbai||Driver held for molesting, blackmailing employer in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Colaba police arrested the driver of a 40-year-old toy shop owner, a widow, for allegedly molesting and blackmailing her after morphing her photographs. She transferred Rs 1.5 lakh into his account and then his associate called her for Rs 3 lakh more to not upload the photos on social media. She finally decided to file a police complaint after the driver molested her, showed the photos to her 22-year-old son who is studying in London, and threatened to kill both. The accused, Sanjay Chavan, 35, has been arrested for molestation, extortion, criminal intimidation and criminal conspiracy under the Indian Penal Code and sections of the IT Act. His wife, Seema, and associate, one Salman, are yet to be arrested. A police officer said Chavan had been a driver with the family for some years. After the woman’s husband passed away three years ago, he continued to work as the family driver. “In 2018, she received a phone call from Salman who threatened her saying he had her photos in objectionable attire and he would upload them on social media unless she paid up Rs 5 lakh. The woman confided in Chavan and asked for his help. He assured her of full support and told her to transfer Rs 1.5 lakh to his bank account, claiming he would handle the matter by paying the blackmailer Rs 1.5 lakh,” said the officer. In 2019, Salman again called her saying he had created her fake Facebook account and befriended her family members. He again threatened to post her photos and demanded Rs 3 lakh. The woman then approached cyber police and the Facebook account was blocked. “In her FIR, registered on July 18, she stated she was in the kitchen when Chavan appeared from behind and molested her,” said Shivaji Phadtare, senior inspector. During his interrogation, Chavan said the phone used to make threat calls belonged to Seema. Police are trying to locate Seema and Salman. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/driver-held-for-molesting-blackmailing-employer/articleshow/77158914.cms||Mateen Hafeez
July 25, 2020||Lucknow||297 cases in Lucknow, highest in UP on Friday||LUCKNOW: As many as 297 new coronavirus patients — the highest in the state — were detected on Friday from across the city. Fresh cases included 23 persons who had visited the fever clinic of SPM Civil hospital, UP health minister, a security guard of a BSP leader and two journalists. “These patients had come for checkup after developing Covid-19 symptoms. All of them had come in contact with positive cases earlier,” said Dr Ajay Tripathi, in charge of the sampling unit of SPM Civil hospital Area-wise, highest 15 cases were reported from Gomtinagar on Friday, followed by 14 from Alambagh. Nine cases each were detected in Hazratganj, Kanpur Road, Hussainganj and Naka, while seven each were recorded from Gudamba, Chinhat and Hasanganj. Friday’s cases took the city’s Covid-19 count to 5,422 since the pandemic outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/297-cases-in-city-highest-in-up-on-friday/articleshow/77160023.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man threatens wife with acid attack||AHMEDABAD: A 40-year-old from the Ranip area of the city on Thursday filed a complaint at Vadaj police station alleging that her husband, who she married in January in court, threatened to throw acid on her as she could not fulfil his constant demands for money. The woman, who has two children from a previous marriage, stated that her first husband died in 2010 of cardiac arrest and she met the accused in June 2019. After a relationship of around six months, they registered their marriage at a local court. Soon after their wedding, he began asking for money and ended up taking at least Rs 7 lakh from her. On July 19, he took her to a newly launched housing scheme at Gota where he demanded Rs 5 lakh from her. As she refused, he began threatening her to throw acid on her face. She alleged that he often hit her during their seven months of married life. She registered a complaint for causing hurt, criminal intimidation and domestic violence against her husband.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-threatens-wife-with-acid-attack/articleshow/77158930.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Loan shark tries to extrort ‘penalty’||Ahmedabad: A resident of Chanakyapuri on Thursday filed a complaint with Sola police, alleging that a moneylender threatened him with dire consequences over ‘penalties’ of Rs 3.5 lakh purportedly owed by his neighbour, who had borrowed Rs 1.50 lakh at 10% monthly interest and had repaid the loan. In his FIR with Sola police, Dipak Patel, 37, a resident of Chanakyapuri, said that his wife, Hiral, had helped their neighbour Prakash Patel get money from the accused, Ajay Rabari, also a resident of Chanakyapuri. Rabari had lent Rs 1.5 lakh to Prakash at 10% monthly interest and taken his sedan as security for the loan. According to the FIR, Prakash paid off the capital and interest and took his car back from Rabari. However, Rabari and his aides kept asking Hiral for money Prakash allegedly owed as ‘penalty’ because she had mediated for his to get the loan. On Wednesday, Rabari and his aides threatened Hiral and Dipak, after which the couple approached police and filed a complaint of criminal intimidation, uttering abusive words and violation of the Gujarat Moneylenders Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/loan-shark-tries-to-extrort-penalty/articleshow/77158964.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Delhi||Covid steps add to woes of flyers at Delhi's IGI airport||NEW DELHI: Naina (name changed), a diabetic, went without food for 12 hours at Indira Gandhi International Airport due to a prolonged immigration procedure. Like the 32-year-old, thousands of passengers have been facing similar issues and going hungry for as long as 13 hours daily. Though flight operations resumed two months ago, the situation remains tough for passengers as officials have been taking more time at each step. While some flyers complained of no assistance, others said they were not briefed about non-availability of food at the airport. “There was a woman with a baby. She kept asking the staff to get food for her child, but in vain,” said Vishwas, a passenger who had arrived from Nigeria. Rashi Mehta, an Air India passenger, tweeted about her horrific experience. “Worst experience and poor management by IGI Airport for flight Air india AI162 from London to Delhi. The flight landed at 9.45pm on 22 July and passengers are stranded from past 12 hours for immigration and quarantine check (sic),” read the tweet. An airport source, however, blamed staff crunch for the situation. “Earlier, there were two people at each immigration counter. The scrutiny of each passengers, including immigration, APHO and check by Delhi government, requires time. In case a passenger shows Covid symptoms, more coordination is required,” he added. Another passenger who had been waiting for over 12 hours claimed that he wasn’t even checked properly. Though officials claimed that social distancing was being maintained at IGI, the videos that surfaced proved to the contrary. An APHO official told TOI, “Each passenger has to be checked before heading out. The entire process takes time, but not 10-12 hours as people have been claiming.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-steps-add-to-woes-of-flyers-at-igi/articleshow/77160034.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Lucknow||Corona snuffs out 7 more lives, Lucknow toll reaches 72||LUCKNOW: Seven more patients lost battle with Covid-19 in the city on Friday. This was the city’s biggest single-day Covid toll. It was also highest death toll in the state along with Kanpur. The city causalities reached 72 since March, including 52 deaths in July so far at the rate of one death every 11 hours. All the deceased, including four women, were above 50 years and admitted to hospitals in the late stage of the disease with ‘critically damaged lungs’. King George's Medical University witnessed three deaths due to cardiopulmonary failure caused by the infection. The first death was of a 63-year-old woman from Para, who also had diabetes, and was admitted with complaint of breathlessness on July 21, said KGMU spokesperson Dr Sudhir Singh. It was followed by the death of a 54-year-old woman from Kaiserbagh who also had gastroenteritis, besides damaged lungs. Later, a 54-year-old man from Alamnagar also died. He was admitted on July 22 and had high blood pressure, diabetes and coronary artery disease, Singh said. Chandan Hospital on Faizabad Road witnessed death of 61-year-old woman from Aliganj.“She was referred to the in a critical condition on Wednesday,” said Farooq Ansari, medical director of the hospital.  At Era’s Lucknow Medical College , a 50-year-old man from Faizabad Road, who was also diabetic, died due to respiratory failure. “Patient was brought in a critical state”, said medical college principal MM Faridi. Two casualties — a 57-year-old woman from Alambagh and 64-year-old man from Lalkuan — were reported from Lok Bandhu hospital. Besides, two patients from other districts also died in Lucknow hospitals. A 78-year-old Covid-19 patient from Gorakhpur died in KGMU, while a 47-year-old man from Bahraich. Both died within after after admission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/corona-snuffs-out-7-more-lives-city-toll-reaches-72/articleshow/77160030.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
July 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Parking dispute reaches cops||Ahmedabad: Navrangpura police on Thursday filed two complaints over a dispute concerning the parking of a motorcycle in a residential society, including one by the wife of an officer of IndextB (industrial extension bureau). The FIR filed by Tina Shah, wife of IndextB general manager Manish Shah, a resident of Vijay Park in Navrangpura, states that their neighbours, Himanshu and Nipa Dhruv, threatened and abused them on May 30 after the Shah family raised objections about Himanshu parking his motorcycle in a way that obstructed the path to their house. Tina said Himanshu Dhruv and members of his family threatened her and her family members as her husband Manish requested them to park their vehicle properly. She also said that Dhruv’s wife threatened to frame male members of her family in some false case. On the other hand, Nipa Dhruv alleged that Tina and her family threatened and abused her family members. Nipa alleged that the Shah family had encroached on their space, regarding which they had made several representation to the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC). She alleged that Manish threatened and abused her family while claiming that he had links with the higher-ups and no one could harm him. Navrangpura police charged members of both families with abusing and issuing threats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/parking-dispute-reaches-cops/articleshow/77158933.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Udaipur||International tourists in awe of Rajasthan's hospitality amid lockdown||UDAIPUR: Vacationers from across the globe are in awe of Rajasthani culture and hospitality. Grateful travelers thank the government for intervention, assistance in getting passes, visas and flight tickets to return to their homelands. Lockdown was very hard for over 150 tourists stuck in Udaipur, miles away from their own people with limited money. Tourism officials have helped some 110 guests return to their homes. “Padharo Mhare Des is the tagline of the tourism department and I am glad we could help guests when they found all doors closed. We helped them in getting curfew passes to travel to Ahmedabad or Delhi from where they had return flights. One of the guests was in need of diet supplements and we arranged it from Noida,” Shikha Saxena, deputy director, tourism, told TOI. The woman officer even went out of way by calling at international call centres of various airlines since the schedule of rescue flights to different countries was not available on public domains. Gisele Emma Luise Bortoli, an 80-year-old German, was the oldest guest to be facilitated by officials. Extending gratitude, she posted a ‘thank you’ video for assisting her in getting flight tickets in just a single day despite all complications. Shalakha Verma, an Australian PR holder, with her toddler Angad sent a note of thanks after she was re-united with her husband in Melbourne. “They helped me in organising the movement pass at a short notice,” she said. Similar was the story of Niroz Shah, a Canadian PR holder, and her daughter Sarah Adnan, a 10-month child, the youngest foreign national. They received help in getting legal formalities completed with the CID.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/intl-tourists-in-awe-of-raj-hospitality-amid-lockdown/articleshow/77164301.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Jaipur||International tourists in awe of Rajasthan's hospitality amid lockdown||UDAIPUR: Vacationers from across the globe are in awe of Rajasthani culture and hospitality. Grateful travelers thank the government for intervention, assistance in getting passes, visas and flight tickets to return to their homelands. Lockdown was very hard for over 150 tourists stuck in Udaipur, miles away from their own people with limited money. Tourism officials have helped some 110 guests return to their homes. “Padharo Mhare Des is the tagline of the tourism department and I am glad we could help guests when they found all doors closed. We helped them in getting curfew passes to travel to Ahmedabad or Delhi from where they had return flights. One of the guests was in need of diet supplements and we arranged it from Noida,” Shikha Saxena, deputy director, tourism, told TOI. The woman officer even went out of way by calling at international call centres of various airlines since the schedule of rescue flights to different countries was not available on public domains. Gisele Emma Luise Bortoli, an 80-year-old German, was the oldest guest to be facilitated by officials. Extending gratitude, she posted a ‘thank you’ video for assisting her in getting flight tickets in just a single day despite all complications. Shalakha Verma, an Australian PR holder, with her toddler Angad sent a note of thanks after she was re-united with her husband in Melbourne. “They helped me in organising the movement pass at a short notice,” she said. Similar was the story of Niroz Shah, a Canadian PR holder, and her daughter Sarah Adnan, a 10-month child, the youngest foreign national. They received help in getting legal formalities completed with the CID.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/intl-tourists-in-awe-of-raj-hospitality-amid-lockdown/articleshow/77160038.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Amid pandemic, Barnala farmer cuts out the middleman, doubles income||Barnala: Hailing from a well-off family, farmer Sukhwinder Singh feels no shame in pitching a makeshift stall by the roadside to sell family-grown vegetables among other vendors, many of them migrant workers, at a temporary vegetable market in Barnala. Occasionally, the 30-year-old man from Harigarh village carries bundles of vegetables, tied on the seat of his motorcycle, to go nearly 20km away to sell his produce in Barnala town in the evenings. Sukhwinder, whose friends call him Sukhi Shergill, grows coriander, maize, corn and spinach on two acres and has been “direct marketing” his produce, without any middlemen, for “some months” now. Sukhi, who has a diploma in agro chemicals from Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), says he is able to earn twice of what he would have earned if he would have been selling through a middleman, or what is colloquially called the arhtiya. Sukhi says he makes about Rs 1,500 a day and wants more farmers to sell their own produce for the benefit of consumers and the farmer. During the day, Sukhi sells vegetables on the Bathinda-Zirakpur national highway, right next to Harigarh. Sukhi’s brother has been living in California, US, for eight years and is a transporter there. Before Sukhi started selling his vegetables, he was in the US. His family owns 10 acres of farmland. Barnala chief agriculture officer Baldev Singh says youngsters like Sukhwinder infuse new hope, especially at a time when almost everyone wants to move abroad. “If these youngsters stay back and work in innovative ways, they can earn handsomel,” he says. ‘Not much idea of farm ordinances’ Sukhwinder Singh does not have much idea about the Centre’s ordinances — Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion & Facilitation) Ordinance 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance 2020 — that allow free inter- and intra-state sale of agriculture produce without going to notified mandis and sale of crops to buyers at a pre-decided price. “I don’t have much idea. But, if the farmers get remunerative prices for their produce at their own place without any taxes, growers could earn more,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/amid-pandemic-barnala-farmer-cuts-out-the-middleman-doubles-income/articleshow/77157220.cms||Neel Kamal
July 25, 2020||Lucknow||13 KGMU staff had Covid, recovered on their own: Study||LUCKNOW: Thirteen medical professionals at KGMU including three deployed in the Covid ward, had contracted the novel coronavirus infection and recovered without even knowing they were carrying the virus. These employees remained asymptomatic throughout the period of the disease and recovered on their own by developing antibodies that fights the pathogen. This was revealed in an ongoing study by KGMU’s transfusion medicine department in which it is testing samples of blood donors and health workers to find if herd immunity is getting developed. Earlier, tests of 1,235 ‘healthy blood donors’ found that 46 (3.7%) had antibodies against novel coronavirus. Now, similar tests among 560 KGMU staff members have found 13 (2.3%) with antibodies against Covid-19. “Three (2.5%) of 116 staff deployed in the Covid ward and 10 (2.2%) of 444 in other departments had antibodies,” said head of the department Prof Tulika Chandra. “The employees tested had never experienced Covid-19 symptom. The test found immunoglobulin G-IgG, a protective antibody, in their samples. This antibody develops in Covid-19 patients and remains in blood after recovery for sometime,” she added. It was not clear from where the health workers contracted the infection, but researchers did not deny the possibility of them spreading the virus to others. However, now they will be motivated to donate plasma for other Covid-19 patients. Earlier, 48 staffers of KGMU have tested positive for Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/13-kgmu-staff-had-covid-recovered-on-their-own-study/articleshow/77160036.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
July 25, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Nearly 40% Covid-19 patients in state opt for home quarantine||JAIPUR: In a rising trend, more asymptomatic patients are opting for home quarantine rather than going to the hospitals. Currently, 2,500 asymptomatic patients (active cases) are in isolation at their homes in state. The health department officials advise Covid-19 patients having mild symptoms to opt for home quarantine or they can go to covid care centres run by the state government. A big chunk of them have opted for home isolation as they have facilities to isolate themselves at their homes. With sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases in July, the Covid-19 situation has become grim. At present, at least 3,686 beds in hospitals across the state are occupied by Covid-19 patients and 118 are undergoing treatment in ICUs, while 26 of them are on ventilator support. Besides, 2,500 asymptomatic cases are under home quarantine. The Centre has allowed the patients who are asymptomatic and have mild symptoms to stay at their homes in isolation. They have been asked to keep monitoring their health regularly with thermometer and pulse oximeter. In July (till July 16), 9,160 people were found infected with Covid-19 in the state taking the active cases to more than 6,500. Since, a major chunk of them have opted for treatment at homes, some private hospitals have rolled out packages for care of patients at home. Reacting on the new trend, the health department claimed that they have enough facilities in hospitals for patients who need hospitalization and also for ICU and ventilators. “We have sufficient facilities in hospitals including 42,426 beds, 1,672 ICU beds and 881 ventilators. Out of them, only 3,686 beds are occupied by Covid-19 patients, 118 are undergoing treatment in ICUs, while 26 of them are on ventilator support. Rest of the beds are lying unused,” said health minister Raghu Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nearly-40-covid-19-patients-in-state-opt-for-home-quarantine/articleshow/77160039.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
July 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Farmers covered under PMFBY in Gujarat decreasing since 2016||AHMEDABAD: There has been a steady decrease in the number of farmers in the state who are covered under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yoja or the crop insurance scheme. According to the agri census held in 2015-16, the number of farmers in Gujarat was 53 lakh. The number of farmers who have been covered under the PMFBY has been less than 50% of the total farmers and this number has progressively fallen since 2016. An analysis of the PMFBY in Gujarat was conducted by the Delhi-based Centre for Financial Accountability and authored by activist Persis Ginwalla. The study shows that while less than 50 per cent of the total farmers of the state have been insured under the PMFBY, the number has progressively fallen since 2016. The scheme was rolled out across the country in 2016. Ginwalla said that while farmers do need insurance as they are vulnerable, the way the PMFMY has unfolded on the ground leaves many loopholes. “For the first two year, farmers did not know that they required insurance receipts to claim damages. Moreover, there have been delays in companies paying farmers for damages. These factors, along with others, are responsible for decreasing coverage,” said the study author. According to the study, if the number of farmers in Gujarat is considered to be 53 lakh, the number of farmers insured under the PMFBY in 2016 was 37%. It was 33% in 2017, 29% in 2018 and 26% in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/farmers-covered-under-pmfby-in-gujarat-decreasing-since-2016/articleshow/77158986.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat govt for playgrounds in all schools||AHMEDABAD: To ensure that every school in the state has a playground, the Gujarat government’s education department has directed all district primary education officers (DPEOs) to take necessary steps. According to estimates, 40% of schools in Gujarat lack playgrounds on their campuses, said sources. The director of primary education, M I Joshi, sent a letter on Thursday to all DPEOs stating that they should start the work to allot land for schools in their areas that do not have playgrounds. In Ahmedabad, as many as 1,200 private schools do not have playgrounds, sources said. “The state education department has from time to time kept a check on schools that do not have playgrounds,” a government source said. “The department has been compiling information about government and private land tracts available for creating playgrounds.” The DPEOs have been asked to coordinate with taluka-level officers and gram panchayats to avail of land for schools without playgrounds. In the case of private schools, the DPEOs have been instructed to ensure that they create such a facility soon. In cities and urban areas, getting land for sports and other outdoor activities is a major challenge. The education department had last year revisited the playground-size criterion for setting up new schools. This was done after a sharp drop in the number of new schools approved in 2019-20. The playground-size stipulation was changed from 1,200 square metres to 800 square metres in urban areas. In rural centres, it was reduced from 2,000 square metres to 1,500 square metres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-for-playgrounds-in-all-schools/articleshow/77158966.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Dehradun||Contractual state employees to now get paid Child Care Leave||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Friday ruled that even the contractual workers of the state government will now be eligible for Child Care Leave for a period of 31 days. The order added that leave period for the contractual women workers will be credited as earned leaves. The decision came from the bench of Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan, Justice Sudhanshu Dhulia and Justice Alok Kumar Verma. The court was hearing a writ petition filed by a contractual government doctor who had argued that if the permanent employees of the government are entitled to the leave, why shouldn’t the contractual workers be entitled to the child care leaves. Banshi Dhar Pandey, the counsel appearing for petitioner told TOI that the state, at present has no law or statute granting these leaves. “However, a government order was issued in May, 2011 that granted 730 days of child care leave to the government employees but the order did not mention anything about the contractual workers,” he said. In its unanimous judgement, authored by Justice Sudhanshu Dhulia, the bench said that the court does not legislate, it only interprets existing laws but in the present case since, there is no statute or rule, it is reading into the existing order, the provision for the contractual workers. “A court interprets an existing law. In the present context, however, though there is no statute or Rule for child care leave even for a regular employee, yet there is a Government Order… We have only read into this provision the rights of a contractual employee as well,” read the court judgement. Meanwhile, the court added, “A contractual employee, whose employment is only for one year, cannot be granted child care leave for 730 days. Such an employee can be granted paid child care leave for 31 days on the same terms and principles as earned leave,” the judgement read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/contractual-state-employees-to-now-get-paid-child-care-leave/articleshow/77155382.cms||Prashant Jha
July 25, 2020||Jaipur||‘Identify place to build watch tower, nursery at Sambhar Lake’||JAIPUR: District collector Antar Singh Nehra on Friday directed the forest department officials to identify area for establishing a watch tower near Sambhar Lake so that migratory birds could be protected and to also prevent their deaths like last year. He also said “micro-planning” was required for their safety and protection. He also directed the officials to identify a place for developing a nursery for the care of affected birds and also make provision for temporary nursery till the permanent structure is completed. Nehra gave directions to departments concerned to take appropriate steps for the protection of migratory birds at Sambhar Lake.  He instructed the local administration of Sambhar to keep a watch on every death of birds around the lake area. “The tehsildar, patwari, BDO and SDM should make occasional visits to the area, where a large number of migratory birds were killed due to avian botulism last year,” he said. The collector directed that if a carcass of a bird is found somewhere around the lake area, it should be buried as per protocol. He also said, the directions given by the High Court and the National Green Tribunal must be complied with in the safety of migratory birds at Sambhar Lake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/identify-place-to-build-watch-tower-nursery-at-sambhar-lake/articleshow/77158950.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Man with liver ailment HP’s 11th casualty, tally near 2k||Shimla: A 52-year-old man with a liver ailment became the 11th Covid-19 casualty in Himachal Pradesh on Friday, even as the state reported 120 new cases and the overall tally reached 1,954. Of the new cases, 38 are from Solan district, 29 from Sirmaur, 26 from Mandi 15 from Kangra , three each from Shimla and Hamirpur, two each from Kullu and Kinnaur, and one each from Bilaspur and Una districts. Nine patients recovered from the virus during the day — five from Shimla, two from Kangra, and one each from Bilaspur and Chamba districts. Of the 1,954 cases reported so far, 781 patients are being treated and 1,145 have recovered. Among remaining cases, 15 have migrated out of state, 11 have died of Covid-19, and two died of non-Covid reasons. The deceased is from Amb village of Jwalamukhi tehsil in Kangra district. He was being treated in the severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) ward of Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College at Tanda in Kangra. The patient with high co-morbidities was being treated at PGIMER, Chandigarh, for his liver ailment. He developed SARI after being discharged from the Chandigarh facility and was shifted to the Tanda hospital. After it was confirmed that he had tested positive, the man was referred to the zonal hospital in Dharamshala. When he was being shifted to the ambulance, the patient collapsed there itself. The doctor on duty confirmed he was dead. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday held a meeting via videoconferencing with the deputy commissioners of Sirmaur and Solan districts to discuss steps being taken to check the spread of Covid. He directed them to make appropriate arrangements for medical checkups and balanced diet of patients. He said the quarantine process should be followed properly and it was the responsibility of the management of units operating in industrial zones to ensure all workers had completed quarantine. It was also discussed whether lockdown should be imposed in Baddi and Nalagarh areas of Solan district and Nahan in Sirmaur district, keeping in view the rise in cases in these areas. Thakur said Covid cases increased in the state as state people stranded in various parts of the country were brought back. He added the state was still doing better than other states. He also held videoconference with chief secretary Anil Khachi and additional chief secretary (health) R D Dhiman regarding prevention of spread of Covid. The CM emphasised on contact tracing of patients. He said people did not need to panic as the state government was working persistently to control this pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-with-liver-ailment-hps-11th-casualty-tally-near-2k/articleshow/77157235.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Puducherry||Trapped in car, two girls choke to death in Tamil Nadu||VILLUPURAM: Two girls, aged four and seven, suffocated to death after they were trapped in a car for more than two hours on Thursday in a village in Kallakurichi district. Passersby found the two children unconscious in the car parked near their house. The girls were taken to the Tirukovilur government hospital where doctors declared them dead. Police have detained the owner of the car for questioning. E Rajeshwari, 7, and A Vanitha, 4, were daughters of two farm workers from Kuladeepamangalam in the district. The incident took place on Thursday evening when they were playing on the street in front of their houses. All doors of car could be opened from outside, not inside, say policeThey climbed onto the car belonging to their neighbour Raja. “The car which was damaged in an accident two years ago was parked in front of the neighbour’s house. All the four doors of the car can be opened from outside, but not from inside,” said a police officer. The girls got stuck inside the car, unable to open the door. Some villagers later found them lying unconscious inside the car and alerted their family members. They were taken to the Tirukovilur GH where doctors declared them dead. The Manalurpet police said, “Based on an alert, we visited the village and conducted investigations. So far, none of the family members has lodged a complaint. We have registered a case under Section 174 (Unnatural death) of CrPC and are investigating further.” Postmortem examination was performed at the GH and the girls’ bodies were handed over to their family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/trapped-in-car-two-girls-choke-to-death-in-tn/articleshow/77158957.cms||Karal Marx
July 25, 2020||Jodhpur||'Locust swarms from South Africa to enter Rajasthan'||JAISALMER: FAO has warned that in coming days swarms of locusts will enter from South African countries which has left the farmers worried. A large number of locusts from South African countries including Somalia will enter into India in Jaisalmer-Barmer from Pakistan international border. After the warning, Jaisalmer administration has started taking preventive measures. In the coming days, officers of agriculture department, locust control department and BSF and other agencies will hold a meeting and make plan to deal with the crisis. Jaisalmer collector Ashish Modi said they had started implementing preventive measure. Plan is being made to provide pesticides and tractors to farmers. The administration is in continuous touch with the BSF. Meanwhile, the swarms invaded Barmer on Thursday from the international border adjoining Kelnore area. Indian Air Force’s MI-17 chopper destroyed the swarms in Baytu and Sedwa areas. The drones and other sprayer vehicles also pitched in. Barmer district control bureau officer K V Choudhary said that pests were controlled on around 900 hectares and MI-17 chopper came from Jodhpur and sprayed pesticides in Sedwa gram panchayat, Sawau, Moolraj, Baytoo, Dipla and Navtala. Besides, 20 sprayers that were recently received from London have reached Barmer. The report further added that in Somalia, ground and aerial control operations are underway against immature swarms on the northern plateau between Hargeisa and Garowe. The swarms are moving eastwards across the north and they could continue to migrate across the Indian Ocean to reach the summer breeding areas along both sides of the Indo-Pakistan border. In Pakistan, pest control operations are in progress against hopper groups and bands in the Nagarparkar area of southeast Sindh near the Indian border. Groups of adults are maturing in Tharparkar and Cholistan deserts where egg-laying is expected in areas that have already received monsoon rains. This will cause a further increase in locust numbers as hatching and hopper band formations occur in the coming weeks. The report also said that in India, adult groups and swarms are maturing throughout Rajasthan where laying is underway in many areas. So far, a few hopper groups and bands have formed but substantial hatching is expected in the coming weeks. Control operations are in progress. There have been no recent reports of additional locusts in northern states as most of adult groups have returned to Rajasthan as expected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/locust-swarms-from-south-africa-to-enter-state-fao/articleshow/77162941.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Ajmer||'Locust swarms from South Africa to enter Rajasthan'||JAISALMER: FAO has warned that in coming days swarms of locusts will enter from South African countries which has left the farmers worried. A large number of locusts from South African countries including Somalia will enter into India in Jaisalmer-Barmer from Pakistan international border. After the warning, Jaisalmer administration has started taking preventive measures. In the coming days, officers of agriculture department, locust control department and BSF and other agencies will hold a meeting and make plan to deal with the crisis. Jaisalmer collector Ashish Modi said they had started implementing preventive measure. Plan is being made to provide pesticides and tractors to farmers. The administration is in continuous touch with the BSF. Meanwhile, the swarms invaded Barmer on Thursday from the international border adjoining Kelnore area. Indian Air Force’s MI-17 chopper destroyed the swarms in Baytu and Sedwa areas. The drones and other sprayer vehicles also pitched in. Barmer district control bureau officer K V Choudhary said that pests were controlled on around 900 hectares and MI-17 chopper came from Jodhpur and sprayed pesticides in Sedwa gram panchayat, Sawau, Moolraj, Baytoo, Dipla and Navtala. Besides, 20 sprayers that were recently received from London have reached Barmer. The report further added that in Somalia, ground and aerial control operations are underway against immature swarms on the northern plateau between Hargeisa and Garowe. The swarms are moving eastwards across the north and they could continue to migrate across the Indian Ocean to reach the summer breeding areas along both sides of the Indo-Pakistan border. In Pakistan, pest control operations are in progress against hopper groups and bands in the Nagarparkar area of southeast Sindh near the Indian border. Groups of adults are maturing in Tharparkar and Cholistan deserts where egg-laying is expected in areas that have already received monsoon rains. This will cause a further increase in locust numbers as hatching and hopper band formations occur in the coming weeks. The report also said that in India, adult groups and swarms are maturing throughout Rajasthan where laying is underway in many areas. So far, a few hopper groups and bands have formed but substantial hatching is expected in the coming weeks. Control operations are in progress. There have been no recent reports of additional locusts in northern states as most of adult groups have returned to Rajasthan as expected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/locust-swarms-from-south-africa-to-enter-state-fao/articleshow/77162943.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Jodhpur||Covid-19: With 8 deaths, fatalities in Rajasthan cross 600 mark||JAIPUR: With eight deaths on Friday, Covid-19 fatalities stand at 602. Besides, 958 positive cases of coronavirus were detected, out of which 84 were reported from Jaipur, taking the cumulative cases to 34,178. The active cases in the state crossed 9,000 mark with a total of 9,029 cases. “We have witnessed eight deaths in the state out of which five were reported from Jodhpur, two from Barmer and one death was reported from Nagaur,” said a senior officer of health department. Alwar reported 224 positive cases, followed by Jodhpur 158, Pali 91, Jaipur 84, Ajmer 63 and Bikaner 62. “Except for Hanumangarh, Banswara and Sirohi where no cases were reported today, other districts reported cases ranging from 30 to 1,” said an officer. “Our focus is now on Jodhpur and Alwar where there is a spurt in the cases. Cluster sampling has been initiated at both the places,” said an officer. Till Thursday there were 8,587 active cases in the state. In the total 9,029 active cases, Jodhpur has the biggest share of 1,604 cases, followed by Alwar with 1,304 active cases and Jaipur with 1,000 cases. Meanwhile, in Jaipur 84 cases were reported from almost every part of the city including Jhotwara, Ajmer Road, Vaishali Nagar, Mansarovar, Sodala and others. No death was reported from Jaipur due to Covid-19 on Friday.  Rajya Sabha MP Kirori Lal Meena and transport commissioner Ravi Jain test positive for Covid-19 – Rajya Sabha MP Dr Kirori Lal Meena had been experiencing fever and other issues for a long time. He and his family were in a shock when his Covid-19 report came positive. “He had mild fever, thus, got himself tested. His reports are positive and he is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in the city. He has no complications whatsoever so far,” said a doctor of private hospital. Likewise, transport commissioner Ravi Jain was also tested positive for Covid-19. According to the sources, he is asymptomatic and has kept himself in self-quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/with-8-deaths-fatalities-in-rajasthan-cross-600-mark/articleshow/77162323.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand reports 272 new Covid-19 cases, 2 deaths||Dehradun: With 272 fresh cases reported in the state, Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 tally reached 5,717 on Friday. Also, two deaths of Covid-19 patients were reported from AIIMS Rishikesh on the day, taking the toll of the virus in the state to 62. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 war room, informed that a 47-year-old Covid-19 positive man died of hyperkalemia (higher than normal potassium level in blood) and severe metabolic acidosis. “Another 45-year-old Covid-19 positive man died at AIIMS Rishikesh due to autonomic dysfunction, myasthenic crisis, and pneumonia on the day,” he added. Among the 272 fresh cases, the maximum of 90 were reported from Udham Singh Nagar alone. On the day, Almora reported its highest-ever single day spike of 31 Covid-19 cases. Haridwar also reported 29 new cases. Among these, 10 were members of a family, including a two-year-old kid. In Nainital, 77 fresh cases were reported. As many as 13 members of a family were tested positive in the hill town. All of them got infected as a boy of the family was detected positive for the virus earlier this week. “Dehradun also reported 30 new Covid-19 cases on Friday. Among these, six were healthcare workers. Also, 11 new cases of coronavirus were reported from Champawat, followed by two in Pithoragarh, and one each in Rudraprayag and Uttarkashi,” added Tripathi. Meanwhile due to a surge in cases, the recovery rate in the state has dropped to a little above 60%. In view of the rising cases, over 40 containment zones were increased in Haridwar in the last 72 hours. The district alone has 132 containment zones among total 173 in the state. However, the state still has the capacity to test just about 3,000-3,500 samples on an average per day. There are just six Covid-19 test labs functioning in the state currently. The test reports of 7,365 samples were pending in the state till Friday. Anoop Nautiyal, member of Social Development for Communities Foundation (an organisation closely tracking the Covid-19 scenario in Uttarakhand), said, “The backlog of samples is pending for almost two months. We are at 10th spot among the 11 Himalayan states in Covid-19 testing per lakh population.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-reports-272-new-covid-19-cases-2-deaths/articleshow/77155392.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 25, 2020||Udaipur||'Locust swarms from South Africa to enter Rajasthan'||JAISALMER: FAO has warned that in coming days swarms of locusts will enter from South African countries which has left the farmers worried. A large number of locusts from South African countries including Somalia will enter into India in Jaisalmer-Barmer from Pakistan international border. After the warning, Jaisalmer administration has started taking preventive measures. In the coming days, officers of agriculture department, locust control department and BSF and other agencies will hold a meeting and make plan to deal with the crisis. Jaisalmer collector Ashish Modi said they had started implementing preventive measure. Plan is being made to provide pesticides and tractors to farmers. The administration is in continuous touch with the BSF. Meanwhile, the swarms invaded Barmer on Thursday from the international border adjoining Kelnore area. Indian Air Force’s MI-17 chopper destroyed the swarms in Baytu and Sedwa areas. The drones and other sprayer vehicles also pitched in. Barmer district control bureau officer K V Choudhary said that pests were controlled on around 900 hectares and MI-17 chopper came from Jodhpur and sprayed pesticides in Sedwa gram panchayat, Sawau, Moolraj, Baytoo, Dipla and Navtala. Besides, 20 sprayers that were recently received from London have reached Barmer. The report further added that in Somalia, ground and aerial control operations are underway against immature swarms on the northern plateau between Hargeisa and Garowe. The swarms are moving eastwards across the north and they could continue to migrate across the Indian Ocean to reach the summer breeding areas along both sides of the Indo-Pakistan border. In Pakistan, pest control operations are in progress against hopper groups and bands in the Nagarparkar area of southeast Sindh near the Indian border. Groups of adults are maturing in Tharparkar and Cholistan deserts where egg-laying is expected in areas that have already received monsoon rains. This will cause a further increase in locust numbers as hatching and hopper band formations occur in the coming weeks. The report also said that in India, adult groups and swarms are maturing throughout Rajasthan where laying is underway in many areas. So far, a few hopper groups and bands have formed but substantial hatching is expected in the coming weeks. Control operations are in progress. There have been no recent reports of additional locusts in northern states as most of adult groups have returned to Rajasthan as expected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/locust-swarms-from-south-africa-to-enter-state-fao/articleshow/77162942.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Jaipur||'Locust swarms from South Africa to enter Rajasthan'||JAISALMER: FAO has warned that in coming days swarms of locusts will enter from South African countries which has left the farmers worried. A large number of locusts from South African countries including Somalia will enter into India in Jaisalmer-Barmer from Pakistan international border. After the warning, Jaisalmer administration has started taking preventive measures. In the coming days, officers of agriculture department, locust control department and BSF and other agencies will hold a meeting and make plan to deal with the crisis. Jaisalmer collector Ashish Modi said they had started implementing preventive measure. Plan is being made to provide pesticides and tractors to farmers. The administration is in continuous touch with the BSF. Meanwhile, the swarms invaded Barmer on Thursday from the international border adjoining Kelnore area. Indian Air Force’s MI-17 chopper destroyed the swarms in Baytu and Sedwa areas. The drones and other sprayer vehicles also pitched in. Barmer district control bureau officer K V Choudhary said that pests were controlled on around 900 hectares and MI-17 chopper came from Jodhpur and sprayed pesticides in Sedwa gram panchayat, Sawau, Moolraj, Baytoo, Dipla and Navtala. Besides, 20 sprayers that were recently received from London have reached Barmer. The report further added that in Somalia, ground and aerial control operations are underway against immature swarms on the northern plateau between Hargeisa and Garowe. The swarms are moving eastwards across the north and they could continue to migrate across the Indian Ocean to reach the summer breeding areas along both sides of the Indo-Pakistan border. In Pakistan, pest control operations are in progress against hopper groups and bands in the Nagarparkar area of southeast Sindh near the Indian border. Groups of adults are maturing in Tharparkar and Cholistan deserts where egg-laying is expected in areas that have already received monsoon rains. This will cause a further increase in locust numbers as hatching and hopper band formations occur in the coming weeks. The report also said that in India, adult groups and swarms are maturing throughout Rajasthan where laying is underway in many areas. So far, a few hopper groups and bands have formed but substantial hatching is expected in the coming weeks. Control operations are in progress. There have been no recent reports of additional locusts in northern states as most of adult groups have returned to Rajasthan as expected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/locust-swarms-from-south-africa-to-enter-state-fao/articleshow/77158965.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Udaipur||Covid-19: With 8 deaths, fatalities in Rajasthan cross 600 mark||JAIPUR: With eight deaths on Friday, Covid-19 fatalities stand at 602. Besides, 958 positive cases of coronavirus were detected, out of which 84 were reported from Jaipur, taking the cumulative cases to 34,178. The active cases in the state crossed 9,000 mark with a total of 9,029 cases. “We have witnessed eight deaths in the state out of which five were reported from Jodhpur, two from Barmer and one death was reported from Nagaur,” said a senior officer of health department. Alwar reported 224 positive cases, followed by Jodhpur 158, Pali 91, Jaipur 84, Ajmer 63 and Bikaner 62. “Except for Hanumangarh, Banswara and Sirohi where no cases were reported today, other districts reported cases ranging from 30 to 1,” said an officer. “Our focus is now on Jodhpur and Alwar where there is a spurt in the cases. Cluster sampling has been initiated at both the places,” said an officer. Till Thursday there were 8,587 active cases in the state. In the total 9,029 active cases, Jodhpur has the biggest share of 1,604 cases, followed by Alwar with 1,304 active cases and Jaipur with 1,000 cases. Meanwhile, in Jaipur 84 cases were reported from almost every part of the city including Jhotwara, Ajmer Road, Vaishali Nagar, Mansarovar, Sodala and others. No death was reported from Jaipur due to Covid-19 on Friday.  Rajya Sabha MP Kirori Lal Meena and transport commissioner Ravi Jain test positive for Covid-19 – Rajya Sabha MP Dr Kirori Lal Meena had been experiencing fever and other issues for a long time. He and his family were in a shock when his Covid-19 report came positive. “He had mild fever, thus, got himself tested. His reports are positive and he is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in the city. He has no complications whatsoever so far,” said a doctor of private hospital. Likewise, transport commissioner Ravi Jain was also tested positive for Covid-19. According to the sources, he is asymptomatic and has kept himself in self-quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/with-8-deaths-fatalities-in-rajasthan-cross-600-mark/articleshow/77162324.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Lucknow||Covid honour for 64 traffic cops||As many as 64 traffic police officers were honoured and given flowers, masks and shields for performing their duties during the pandemic at the seven-day Traffic Warrior Week, started by Lucknow Smart Cities in collaboration with Shubham Soti Foundation on July 15. The week ended with DCP Charu Nigam giving coronavirus prevention kit to 12 officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-honour-for-64-traffic-cops/articleshow/77160043.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 80-year-old beats Covid-19 after 45 days in hospital||MUMBAI: Eighty-year-old Chottelal Thakur walked out of BYL Nair Hospital on Tuesday after a 45-day battle with Covid-19, showing that old age and Covid doesn’t amount to a death sentence. Doctors at the Mumbai Central hospital said that his recovery after such a prolonged stay has given them confidence that the infection can be defeated in older adults too. In Mumbai, the case fatality rate in the 81-90 age group is the highest at 20%, followed by the 91-100 age bracket, at 18%. Thakur recovered despite staying on a non-invasive ventilator for over two weeks, followed by another 10 days on a bag-mask device (delivers high flow oxygen under pressure) and then on oxygen support for the remaining days. “What kept us going was his family’s faith in us that we should do whatever possible to save him,” said Dr Rakesh Bhadade from medicine department, who along with a team of resident doctors cared for Thakur. Thakur was admitted to the hospital in June with lower respiratory tract infection. At the time of hospitalisation, it became clear that he had already developed acute respiratory distress syndrome, considered the most severe form of lung injury and associated with higher mortality rates in older patients. “Besides the standard line of care, he was also given drugs like Tocilizumab that helped with the recovery,” said Dr Bhadade. The medical ICU team, led by professor and in-charge Dr Rosemarie DeSouza, is currently looking after two patients who have been hospitalised for over 40 days. Nair dean Dr Mohan Joshi said several patients from the older age groups have been successfully treated by their doctors. As per data, over 2,300 people in the 80-90 age group have tested Covid-19 positive, while nearly 250 people from the 90-100 age bracket have been affected. “Among the reasons why older people are greatly impacted include the physiological changes associated with ageing, reduced immune function and comorbidities,” said a KEM doctor, adding that family members who step out need to be extra cautious as they are often the source of infection for the elderly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/80-yr-old-beats-covid-19-after-45-days-in-hosp/articleshow/77159015.cms||Sumitra Debroy
July 25, 2020||Nagpur||City’s plastic waste down only 15% post ban: Study||Nagpur: Following the enforcement of statewide plastic ban, the city has witnessed only 15% reduction in its plastic waste. Blaming it on non-implementation of the ban, experts have called for stringent measures and effective segregation. All across the world, July is being observed as Plastic Free Month, a global initiative to reduce consumption of plastic. An analysis done by environmentalist and former member of state wildlife board, Shrikant Tekade, reveals that despite the 15% decrease post ban, overall generation of plastic waste is increasing periodically. “The ban could not be much fruitful; it failed in achieving the desired results due to time-to-time relaxations given to big companies which use plastic packaging,” it stated. According to the analysis, Maharashtra is the largest generator of plastic waste producing around 4.8 lakh tonnes of it every year. Nagpur stands 14th in the country. “The municipal solid waste generated in the city is around 675 tonnes per day out of which 13% is plastic in various forms. Around 60% of the city’s total plastic waste is generated from slum areas, mostly from north and west Nagpur due to lack of sensitization on the ill-effects of plastic,” the analysis added. Stating that plastic ban was never in place in the state as well as city, founder of NGO Green Vigil Foundation Kaustav Chatterjee said, “Earlier, at least there was a fear factor among sellers and buyers but since last four months, plastic ban has gone for a toss amid the pandemic. Use of single use plastic is rampant as there is no other alternative available at this time.” Pointing out that recycling of waste continues to be a major concern, Anasuya Kale Chhabrani of NGO Swachh Association said, “Unless all stakeholders are not involved and cheaper alternatives are not made available, the ban will always be unsuccessful. Door-to-door collection has improved but segregation is still not happening.” Chatterjee added that though the ban has been imposed since June 2018, till date there is no authentic and affordable alternative in the market. “Most of the layered and disposable masks and gloves have plastic in it. These masks are being dumped anywhere across the city. Along with health hazards these masks and gloves also are huge threat to environment,” he said. NOT BAN-G ON TARGET - Nagpur 14th in country in generating plastic waste - 13% of city’s total waste is plastic - Around 60% of the city’s total plastic waste generated from slum areas - Ban not effective, segregation and recycling not happening - Experts say alternatives not available||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/citys-plastic-waste-down-only-15-post-ban-study/articleshow/77157270.cms||Manka Behl
July 25, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: With 8 deaths, fatalities in Rajasthan cross 600 mark||JAIPUR: With eight deaths on Friday, Covid-19 fatalities stand at 602. Besides, 958 positive cases of coronavirus were detected, out of which 84 were reported from Jaipur, taking the cumulative cases to 34,178. The active cases in the state crossed 9,000 mark with a total of 9,029 cases. “We have witnessed eight deaths in the state out of which five were reported from Jodhpur, two from Barmer and one death was reported from Nagaur,” said a senior officer of health department. Alwar reported 224 positive cases, followed by Jodhpur 158, Pali 91, Jaipur 84, Ajmer 63 and Bikaner 62. “Except for Hanumangarh, Banswara and Sirohi where no cases were reported today, other districts reported cases ranging from 30 to 1,” said an officer. “Our focus is now on Jodhpur and Alwar where there is a spurt in the cases. Cluster sampling has been initiated at both the places,” said an officer. Till Thursday there were 8,587 active cases in the state. In the total 9,029 active cases, Jodhpur has the biggest share of 1,604 cases, followed by Alwar with 1,304 active cases and Jaipur with 1,000 cases. Meanwhile, in Jaipur 84 cases were reported from almost every part of the city including Jhotwara, Ajmer Road, Vaishali Nagar, Mansarovar, Sodala and others. No death was reported from Jaipur due to Covid-19 on Friday.  Rajya Sabha MP Kirori Lal Meena and transport commissioner Ravi Jain test positive for Covid-19 – Rajya Sabha MP Dr Kirori Lal Meena had been experiencing fever and other issues for a long time. He and his family were in a shock when his Covid-19 report came positive. “He had mild fever, thus, got himself tested. His reports are positive and he is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in the city. He has no complications whatsoever so far,” said a doctor of private hospital. Likewise, transport commissioner Ravi Jain was also tested positive for Covid-19. According to the sources, he is asymptomatic and has kept himself in self-quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/with-8-deaths-fatalities-in-rajasthan-cross-600-mark/articleshow/77160042.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Ajmer||Covid-19: With 8 deaths, fatalities in Rajasthan cross 600 mark||JAIPUR: With eight deaths on Friday, Covid-19 fatalities stand at 602. Besides, 958 positive cases of coronavirus were detected, out of which 84 were reported from Jaipur, taking the cumulative cases to 34,178. The active cases in the state crossed 9,000 mark with a total of 9,029 cases. “We have witnessed eight deaths in the state out of which five were reported from Jodhpur, two from Barmer and one death was reported from Nagaur,” said a senior officer of health department. Alwar reported 224 positive cases, followed by Jodhpur 158, Pali 91, Jaipur 84, Ajmer 63 and Bikaner 62. “Except for Hanumangarh, Banswara and Sirohi where no cases were reported today, other districts reported cases ranging from 30 to 1,” said an officer. “Our focus is now on Jodhpur and Alwar where there is a spurt in the cases. Cluster sampling has been initiated at both the places,” said an officer. Till Thursday there were 8,587 active cases in the state. In the total 9,029 active cases, Jodhpur has the biggest share of 1,604 cases, followed by Alwar with 1,304 active cases and Jaipur with 1,000 cases. Meanwhile, in Jaipur 84 cases were reported from almost every part of the city including Jhotwara, Ajmer Road, Vaishali Nagar, Mansarovar, Sodala and others. No death was reported from Jaipur due to Covid-19 on Friday.  Rajya Sabha MP Kirori Lal Meena and transport commissioner Ravi Jain test positive for Covid-19 – Rajya Sabha MP Dr Kirori Lal Meena had been experiencing fever and other issues for a long time. He and his family were in a shock when his Covid-19 report came positive. “He had mild fever, thus, got himself tested. His reports are positive and he is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in the city. He has no complications whatsoever so far,” said a doctor of private hospital. Likewise, transport commissioner Ravi Jain was also tested positive for Covid-19. According to the sources, he is asymptomatic and has kept himself in self-quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/with-8-deaths-fatalities-in-rajasthan-cross-600-mark/articleshow/77162326.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Nagpur||Covid cases cross 11,000 mark in Vidarbha, last 1,000 in just 2 days||NAGPUR: With more than 400 new Covid-19 cases for the third day in a row, Vidarbha’s case count surpassed the 11,000-mark and reached 11,123 on Friday. It took just two days to reach the last 1,000 cases which hints at increase in doubling rate of cases in the region. Experts said this surge also hints at the projected peak which is now expected by mid-August. Along with the increasing number of cases, rising death count is a bigger worry for the region. On Friday, eight deaths were reported from the region, including 4 from Nagpur alone. Akola, Yavatmal, Amravati and Wardha registered 1 death each. This took the death count of Vidarbha to 291, of which 133 have been recorded in 24 days of July. Nagpur recorded its highest single day surge of 222 cases. The four deaths include a 35-year-old man, a 46-year-old man from Zingabai takli, a 62-year-old man and a woman. Yavatmal recorded one more death for the third consecutive day. Here, a 50-year-old woman died during treatment. An 89-year-old man from Chandur Bazar died in Amravati, while a 62-year-old man from Murtizapur died in Akola. In Wardha, a 64-yr-old woman succumbed at Sawangi. All 11 districts in Vidarbha recorded positive cases on Friday. These include Nagpur (222), Amravati (58), Washim (50), Buldhana (42), Akola (33), Yavatmal (19), Chandrapur (13), Gadchiroli (12), Wardha (10), Bhandara (5), and Gondia (3). Total 467 cases were reported on Friday. The highest single day surge of Vidarbha is 478 on July 22. The only relieving factor on Friday was the number of recovered patients. Total 314 patients, including Nagpur (94), Gadchiroli (58), Akola (50), Buldhana (36), Washim (29), Amravati (27), Chandrapur (12), Bhandara (3), Yavatmal (3), and Gondia (2) recovered from the region. This took the number of recovered patients to 7,433, which is 66.8% of the total cases. Vidarbha’s recovery rate is still better than Maharashtra’s 56% and national average of 63.3%. AMRAVATI: A death and a spike of 58 cases saw the district’s toll reaching 45 and its Covid count going up to 1608. With 27 patients getting discharge, the number of recovered patients reached 1,066, leaving 497 active cases, 14 of which are taking treatment in Nagpur. Fourteen of the 58 cases came from rural parts. A CS office report said that an 89-year-old man from Chincholi village in Chandur Bazar tehsil, who tested positive on July 22 and was taking treatment at a Covid hospital here, breathed his last to post 45th death in the district. AKOLA: A 62-year-old man from Barami-Khurd in Murtizapur tehsil, who was under treatment since July 20, died on Friday. This was the 107th death in the district. But the district administration decided to substract the deaths of 8 patients from other districts/regions who died in Akola during treatment. So, officially, the death toll here has reduced to 99. Akola received 110 reports on Friday of which 33 tested positive. With this, total cases reached 2,334. As many 50 patients got discharge, while 321 are under treatment in the district. YAVATMAL: For the third day in a row, a death was reported on Friday. A 50-year-old woman from Chondi village of Pusad tehsil died during treatment. With this, the death toll has reached 25. On Friday, 19 new positive patients were recorded while 3 got discharge. The GMCH has sent 66 swab samples to the lab. So far, 11,557 swab samples have been sent to the lab of which reports of 627 are awaited. According to official sources, there are 234 active positive patients in the GMCH isolation ward. The administration has imposed curfew from midnight on July 24 till July 31. There was heavy rush for buying essentials throwing Covid distancing measures to the wind and causing headache for police. WARDHA: A 64-year-old woman died at Acharya Vinoba Bhave Rural hospital (AVBRH), Sawangi, taking the death toll to six. The decease, a resident of Borgaon (Meghe), tested positive five days before and was taking treatment at AVBRH. The number of Covid here is also increasing. On Friday, 10 more patients have been diagnosed. They are from Wardha (3), Arvi (6) and one from Kandhali village in Samudrapur tehsil. Among the infected patients were a 46-year-old man, an 18-year-old youth and a 44-year-old woman from Gandhi Nagar (Wardha), a 60-year-old woman from Kandhali village, 5 members of a family, a resident of Valisahab ward of Arvi, and a person from Arvi. CHANDRAPUR: With addition of 13 more patients, the tally here has now gone up to 349. However, 214 patients have been cured and discharged, while 135 others are under treatment. The 13 new patients include five from Mul tehsil, one from Gadchandur, two from Chandrapur city, one from Zhilbodi and four from Chimur tehsil. District collector Dr Kunal Khemnar has curtailed the lockdown imposed in Chandrapur city, neigbouring Urjanagar and Durgapur villages by two days and called it off from Saturday. The administration had imposed at these places between July 19 and 26 and additional restrictions were promulgated to break the chain of infection. WASHIM: As many as 50 new cases were reported while 29 got discharge here on Friday. One of the worst-hit tehsils — Mangrul Pir — registered only 3 cases on Friday whereas 29 patients from the city were discharged. Total cases in Washim has reached 488 with 276 of them recovered and 9 deaths. Total 203 patients are under treatment. BULDHANA: Of the 200 reports received on Friday, 42 tested positive taking the number of cases to 915. Total 36 patients recovered in a day while 515 have been discharged so far. The recovered patients include an 80-year-old, 75-year-old and 74-year old, all residents of Nava Fail area of Khamgaon, which is the worst hit in the district. As many as 376 patients are under treatment here. Reports of 192 presumptive cases are yet to arrive. GADCHIROLI: A record 58 patients recovered in a day here on Friday. On the other hand, 12 new patients tested positive which include 9 SRPF Jawans, a government doctor and a government engineer. This took the total number of cases in the district to 441. Total 235 of them have recovered while 205 patients are under treatment. GONDIA: With 217 of the 240 cases recovered and discharged, Gondia has Maharashtra’s best recovery rate at around 90%. On Friday, 3 cases were came to fore. Of these, 2 are from Deori tehsil and one is from Sadak Arjuni. With three deaths registered earlier this month, Gondia now has only 20 patients under treatment. BHANDARA: Total 110 samples were tested in the district on Friday of which 5 tested positive, taking the total number of cases to 215. On the other hand, 3 patients got discharge. With this, 171 patients have recovered from the district. With 2 deaths reported earlier, the district has 42 patients under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-cases-cross-11k-mark-in-vid-last-1k-in-just-2-days/articleshow/77159023.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 25, 2020||Jaipur||Minister gets flak for promoting ‘papad’ as cure for coronavirus||JAIPUR: Union minister Arjun Ram Meghwal’s video claiming that ‘papad’ can help in fighting coronavirus has gone viral. The minister says that papad has all the spices as prescribed by Ayush Mantralaya to prepare ‘kadha’ to boost immunity against Covid-19. Meghwal has launched a ‘papad’ brand amid pandemic claiming that it contains some ingredients that help develop antibodies against coronavirus. The minister drew ire on social media on Friday after a promotional video went viral in which the minister claimed that consuming a certain brand of papad would help a person in producing antibodies to fight novel coronavirus. Union Minister launches 'papad', says ‘it can help develop antibodies against Covid-19’“Under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat campaign, a papad manufacturer has come up with a brand of crisps called Bhabhi Ji Papad. It has all the ingredients that aid formation of antibodies. It would be helpful in fighting coronavirus. We congratulate this firm for coming up with this initiative under the Atmanirbhar India campaign,” the Union minister of state for water resources, river development and Ganga rejuvenation and of parliamentary affairs is heard saying in the video. Defending his claim, Meghwal told TOI, “The manufacturer of this papad told me that he has used all the spices which are already being used in the ‘kadha’ prescribed by the Ministry of Ayush. He has used things like tusli, clove, turmeric nutmeg and mace and other spices which people are already using for kadha.” “Log kadhey main daalkar pee rahey hain ab papad main bhi yeh sab hai to esme galat kya kaha mainey (People are putting the ingredients in kadha and drinking, if these things are in a papad what wrong have I said),” he said. As soon as the video went viral, the minister was criticized for making “misleading” and “unscientific claims” on coronavirus treatment. Lawyer Prashant Bhushan tweeted: “Union Minister Arjun Ram Meghwal has launched a papad brand amid the Covid-19 pandemic claiming it contains some ingredients that will help develop antibodies against the novel coronavirus disease. Ministers, (Baba) Ramdev all trying to profit from Covid-19 by peddling bogus cures.” In the video, Meghwal, who is also a BJP MP from Bikaner, can be seen holding two packets of ‘Bhabhi Ji’ papad and wishing the brand’s owner Sunil Bhansali on the launch of the product, and saying that he hopes the venture will be “successful” under the Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative launched by the Central government. The video was, however, not released on the minister’s official social media handles and was being shared on WhatsApp.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minister-gets-flak-for-promoting-papad-as-cure-for-coronavirus/articleshow/77160050.cms||Ashish Mehta
July 25, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand allows pilgrims from other states to Char Dham, but Covid-negative report must||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand government on Friday allowed pilgrims from outside the state to visit Char Dham, which includes the four shrines of Kedarnath, Badrinath, Yamunotri and Gangotri, but with riders — devotees must produce a Covid-19 negative test report conducted within 72 hours of entering the hill state or undergo mandatory quarantine. The quarantine period is to be served before embarking on the yatra by those unable to produce the test report. Such pilgrims will have to undergo a 14-day quarantine, which includes mandatory seven-day institutional quarantine for arrivals from any of the 31 identified cities with a high number of Covid-19 cases, such as Delhi and Mumbai. Besides, registration with the Devasthanam Board — which manages 51 temples in the state — is necessary. Those from containment zones will not be allowed to enter the state. Ravinath Raman, CEO of Devasthanam board and commissioner of Garhwal, said the decision to allow pilgrims from other states was taken after written and telephonic requests for the same poured in from devotees across the country. “Many of these were people for whom the yatra is an annual ritual. We have allowed the yatra with safety measures in place. Pilgrims can get a Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) negative report conducted within 72 hours of entering Uttarakhand or else complete the mandatory quarantine period,” he said. The move comes almost a month after domestic pilgrims were allowed to take part in the annual Char Dham yatra amid stiff opposition by priests in the wake of Covid-19 threat. Several restrictions are currently in place for the pilgrimage such as no entry in the sanctum sanctorum of the shrines, touching the idols or bringing prasad. Between July 1 and July 24, 21,000 people from within the state registered with the government to visit the shrines. Notably, the cap on daily visitors to the temples — which was introduced on July 1 when they were opened to the public — remains unchanged. This year, Badrinath is allowing 1,200 devotees a day, Kedarnath (800),Gangotri (600) and Yamunotri (400).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-allows-pilgrims-from-other-states-to-char-dham-but-covid-negative-report-must/articleshow/77155467.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 25, 2020||Pune||10-day increased testing ups positivity rate to 20%||Pune: Nearly 1.12 lakh people were tested for Covid-19 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) during the total lockdown from July 14 to 23, which led to the detection of 21,000 citizens with the contagion.The PMR comprising the municipal limits of Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad, the three cantonments of Pune, Khadki and Dehu Road, and the rural areas, clocked a positivity rate of 20%. Prior to the 10-day lockdown, the positivity rate in the PMR was 16%. Despite the spike, the mortality rate at 464 deaths in 10 days was 2%, a reassuring sign.Large-scale testing allows health services to quickly identify who has the disease and arrange for care.Epidemiologists said the positivity rate increases with testing and then plateaus. It starts declining with adequate testing. Apart from the increased testing, the 4% jump in the positivity rate can be attributed to the three continuous days of crowding on the roads, at shops and at vendors after the announcement of the severe lockdown and when relaxations were declared during the lockdown on Sunday.Covid-safe measures, especially wearing masks, hand hygiene and social distancing are a must to ward off the infection, experts have said. It needs behavioural change, they added. Senior epidemiologist Amitav Banerjee said, “Episodic lockdowns have added to the panic and stigma surrounding the infection. We have reached a stage where we will have to learn to live with the virus using Covid-safe measures. Mass media tools must be used to educate people about this new normal.” Lockdowns, he said, have not checked the spread of Covid-19 in any country, including India. “The cost of a lockdown is steep. It disrupts livelihood and businesses and leads to crises of lack of confidence and trust. It has triggered poverty leading to malnutrition and made even the young, who have a negligible fatality from Covid-19, vulnerable,” Banerjee added.“The strategy to contain deaths must change. Conducting massive syndromic surveillance of high-risk people with influenza like illness rather than focusing on tracing and testing close contacts is now necessary,” Banerjee said.Health officials involved in the surveillance work also point to the scramble for essentials for the faster spread of the infection. “People come out of their homes to stock up on essentials with complete disregard to the preventive measures. Social distancing is lacking. Hence, more cases especially in congested areas flare up after 5-7 days after this rush. Crowding prior to lockdowns is also one of the reasons for a spike in cases and spread of the disease,” public health expert Sanjeev Wavare, assistant medical officer of health of Pune Municipal Corporation said.Office-bearers of the Indian Medical Association said public education on safety measures to stop contracting the disease is critically lacking.“Confusion and misinformation about the virus is everywhere. Even after four months of the pandemic, ignorance and myths abound among the 45% of urban poor living in slums. We are tracing, testing, and treating but people must be sensitized,” said Sanjay Patil, chairman of the IMA Hospital Board of India, Pune chapter.Aayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Pune Zilla Parishad, who oversees the containment work in the PMR, attributes the rise in the positivity rate during the lockdown to contact tracing. “We have been doing it aggressively, particularly in the worst-affected areas. This has helped us trace more high-risk patients, which increased the positivity rate in the last two weeks,” he said.Santosh Patil, additional commissioner of Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation said, “There has been good awareness on home isolation among asymptomatic patients in Pimpri Chinchwad. We are educating people on preventive measures as well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/10-day-increased-testing-ups-positivity-rate-to-20/articleshow/77159029.cms||Umesh Isalkar
July 25, 2020||Shimla||Covid-19: Man with liver ailment Himachal Pradesh’s 11th casualty, tally near 2,000||SHIMLA: A 52-year-old man with a liver ailment became the 11th Covid-19 casualty in Himachal Pradesh on Friday, even as the state reported 120 new cases and the overall tally reached 1,954. Of the new cases, 38 are from Solan district, 29 from Sirmaur, 26 from Mandi 15 from Kangra , three each from Shimla and Hamirpur, two each from Kullu and Kinnaur, and one each from Bilaspur and Una districts. Nine patients recovered from the virus during the day — five from Shimla, two from Kangra, and one each from Bilaspur and Chamba districts. Of the 1,954 cases reported so far, 781 patients are being treated and 1,145 have recovered. Among remaining cases, 15 have migrated out of state, 11 have died of Covid-19, and two died of non-Covid reasons. The deceased is from Amb village of Jwalamukhi tehsil in Kangra district. He was being treated in the severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) ward of Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College at Tanda in Kangra. The patient with high co-morbidities was being treated at PGIMER, Chandigarh, for his liver ailment. He developed SARI after being discharged from the Chandigarh facility and was shifted to the Tanda hospital. After it was confirmed that he had tested positive, the man was referred to the zonal hospital in Dharamshala. When he was being shifted to the ambulance, the patient collapsed there itself. The doctor on duty confirmed he was dead. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday held a meeting via videoconferencing with the deputy commissioners of Sirmaur and Solan districts to discuss steps being taken to check the spread of Covid. He directed them to make appropriate arrangements for medical checkups and balanced diet of patients. He said the quarantine process should be followed properly and it was the responsibility of the management of units operating in industrial zones to ensure all workers had completed quarantine. It was also discussed whether lockdown should be imposed in Baddi and Nalagarh areas of Solan district and Nahan in Sirmaur district, keeping in view the rise in cases in these areas. Thakur said Covid cases increased in the state as state people stranded in various parts of the country were brought back. He added the state was still doing better than other states. He also held videoconference with chief secretary Anil Khachi and additional chief secretary (health) R D Dhiman regarding prevention of spread of Covid. The CM emphasised on contact tracing of patients. He said people did not need to panic as the state government was working persistently to control this pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/man-with-liver-ailment-is-hps-11th-covid-casualty-total-cases-near-2k/articleshow/77160057.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Mumbai||KDMC to get its own testing lab, two more Covid care centres today||KALYAN: The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation will finally get its own Covid-19 testing laboratory. On Saturday, CM Uddhav Thackeray will inaugurate the lab and two Covid care facilities—in Patidar hall in Shahad and Asra school in Kalyan—via videoconferencing. KDMC chief Vijay Suryawanshi said the two facilities will have 400 beds each, including 300 oxygenated beds and 20 ICU ones. The lab, set up on PPP basis with Krisha Diagnostics in Kalyan, will carry out 3,000 tests a day. Earlier, KDMC would send swab samples to a lab in Mumbai and the test results would come after 2-3 days. Now, officials expect reports within 12 hours of testing. On Friday, Kalyan-Dombivli reported 342 new cases and eight deaths, taking the total tally to 17,731 and death toll to 289. KDMC currently has 5,696 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kdmc-to-get-its-own-testing-lab-2-more-covid-care-centres-today/articleshow/77159051.cms||Pradeep Gupta
July 25, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: SMS Hospital begins counselling of Covid survivors for plasma donation||JAIPUR: Prior to the opening of the first plasma bank in the state at Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital, the authorities are on the job of counselling those who recovered from Covid-19 to convince them for plasma donation. Authorities on Friday stated that SMS Hospital will invite people not more than 10 per day in batches since it takes an hour to complete the plasma donation from a donor. The SMS administration cured nearly 1,242 patients who were admitted as Covid-19 patients and later discharged after having their reports negative. “Our teams are calling them up and trying to convince them how plasma donation can help others in fighting Covid-19. We have planned to invite those who have consented in different batches. Each batch would consist of not more than 10 people at a time,” said Dr Ajit Singh, a member of the core group of Covid-19 treatment at the SMS hospital. He added that many patients who have recovered have some myths which need to be cleared. “It is a one-hour procedure so they have to spare their time accordingly. Our teams are in touch with them to tell it is a safe donation,” Singh added. The collected plasma would be stored in the bank and would be transfused into the patients as per requirement. “As a matter of fact, plasma should be donated between 28 days and four months after their recovery,” he added. Meanwhile, health minister Raghu Sharma launched a poster urging the Covid-19 survivors to donate more and more plasma. “We are aiming at increasing the recovery rate. Thus looking at encouraging results of the plasma therapy we are trying to convince the Covid-19 survivors to donate their plasma,” he said. SMS Hospital will be the first in the state to set up a plasma bank which will be useful for Covid-19 treatment. The plasma collected at the bank will be used for convalescent plasma therapy as the hospital claimed that it has been found effective in Covid-19 treatment. According to authorities, 47 patients were successfully provided the plasma therapy treatment in the state who got recovered from Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sms-begins-counselling-of-covid-survivors-for-plasma-donation/articleshow/77160061.cms||Ashish Mehta
July 25, 2020||Udaipur||Jaipur: SMS Hospital begins counselling of Covid survivors for plasma donation||JAIPUR: Prior to the opening of the first plasma bank in the state at Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital, the authorities are on the job of counselling those who recovered from Covid-19 to convince them for plasma donation. Authorities on Friday stated that SMS Hospital will invite people not more than 10 per day in batches since it takes an hour to complete the plasma donation from a donor. The SMS administration cured nearly 1,242 patients who were admitted as Covid-19 patients and later discharged after having their reports negative. “Our teams are calling them up and trying to convince them how plasma donation can help others in fighting Covid-19. We have planned to invite those who have consented in different batches. Each batch would consist of not more than 10 people at a time,” said Dr Ajit Singh, a member of the core group of Covid-19 treatment at the SMS hospital. He added that many patients who have recovered have some myths which need to be cleared. “It is a one-hour procedure so they have to spare their time accordingly. Our teams are in touch with them to tell it is a safe donation,” Singh added. The collected plasma would be stored in the bank and would be transfused into the patients as per requirement. “As a matter of fact, plasma should be donated between 28 days and four months after their recovery,” he added. Meanwhile, health minister Raghu Sharma launched a poster urging the Covid-19 survivors to donate more and more plasma. “We are aiming at increasing the recovery rate. Thus looking at encouraging results of the plasma therapy we are trying to convince the Covid-19 survivors to donate their plasma,” he said. SMS Hospital will be the first in the state to set up a plasma bank which will be useful for Covid-19 treatment. The plasma collected at the bank will be used for convalescent plasma therapy as the hospital claimed that it has been found effective in Covid-19 treatment. According to authorities, 47 patients were successfully provided the plasma therapy treatment in the state who got recovered from Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/sms-begins-counselling-of-covid-survivors-for-plasma-donation/articleshow/77163229.cms||Ashish Mehta
July 25, 2020||Ajmer||Jaipur: SMS Hospital begins counselling of Covid survivors for plasma donation||JAIPUR: Prior to the opening of the first plasma bank in the state at Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital, the authorities are on the job of counselling those who recovered from Covid-19 to convince them for plasma donation. Authorities on Friday stated that SMS Hospital will invite people not more than 10 per day in batches since it takes an hour to complete the plasma donation from a donor. The SMS administration cured nearly 1,242 patients who were admitted as Covid-19 patients and later discharged after having their reports negative. “Our teams are calling them up and trying to convince them how plasma donation can help others in fighting Covid-19. We have planned to invite those who have consented in different batches. Each batch would consist of not more than 10 people at a time,” said Dr Ajit Singh, a member of the core group of Covid-19 treatment at the SMS hospital. He added that many patients who have recovered have some myths which need to be cleared. “It is a one-hour procedure so they have to spare their time accordingly. Our teams are in touch with them to tell it is a safe donation,” Singh added. The collected plasma would be stored in the bank and would be transfused into the patients as per requirement. “As a matter of fact, plasma should be donated between 28 days and four months after their recovery,” he added. Meanwhile, health minister Raghu Sharma launched a poster urging the Covid-19 survivors to donate more and more plasma. “We are aiming at increasing the recovery rate. Thus looking at encouraging results of the plasma therapy we are trying to convince the Covid-19 survivors to donate their plasma,” he said. SMS Hospital will be the first in the state to set up a plasma bank which will be useful for Covid-19 treatment. The plasma collected at the bank will be used for convalescent plasma therapy as the hospital claimed that it has been found effective in Covid-19 treatment. According to authorities, 47 patients were successfully provided the plasma therapy treatment in the state who got recovered from Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/sms-begins-counselling-of-covid-survivors-for-plasma-donation/articleshow/77163230.cms||Ashish Mehta
July 25, 2020||Nagpur||Tiger whiskers seized in Chanda, 4 arrested||Chandrapur: Foresters at the Padmapur gate leading to the Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) seized 12 tiger whiskers and arrested four people on Friday afternoon. The accused have been remanded in forest custody for three days. The Padmapur gate is at the border of the buffer zone of TATR. It is the entry point to the tiger reserve from Chandrapur city. Foresters posted at the gate intercepted two bike borne persons coming from Moharli to Tadoba and checked their belongings. They were shocked to find 12 tiger whiskers in their possession. TOI has learnt that the accused were heading to Chandrapur where they had made a deal with some buyers. Foresters immediately apprehended the accused and informed senior officials who rushed to the spot. During the investigation, two more names of people involved in the racket came to the fore and they too were arrested. The accused have been identified as Narendra Choudhari, Suhash Pendalwar, Kalishal Dadmal and Manoj Shende. CCF and field director, TATR, NR Pravin ratified the arrested and claimed that court has sent them to three days of forest custody remand. The accused are from Mudholi and Bhamdheli, the two villages which are in the buffer zone. Whether the accused poached a tiger or collected the whiskers from the carcass is still a mystery. Sources claimed that more people could be involved in the racket and more arrests are likely to be made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tiger-whiskers-seized-in-chanda-4-arrested/articleshow/77157283.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Dehradun||Man held for smuggling fertiliser to Nepal||Pithoragarh: A 22-year-old man was held in Champawat on Thursday evening for trying to smuggle fertiliser to Nepal. A vehicle carrying 54 bags of fertiliser was also impounded by the cops. “The accused Ravi Bhat has confessed that he procured the fertiliser from Khatema and was going to sell it at a higher price in Nepal,” said Lokswar Singh, SP champawat. The official added that the accused has been handed over to the custom officer for further probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-held-for-smuggling-fertiliser-to-nepal/articleshow/77155446.cms||Prem Punetha
July 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Corona plays spoiler in Jind man’s WB wedding plan||Jind: After months of waiting and an 11-day journey to reach West Bengal to marry his Facebook girlfriend, a 26-year-old man from Haryana’s Jind district tested positive for Covid-19 a day before they were to tie the knot. Sandeep, who is from Nandgarh village near Jind’s Julana town, is now in isolation at his girlfriend’s home in Raiganj. He was to marry her in March, but the wedlock had been delayed due to the Covid lockdown. He said he could not find a bride in Haryana because of the state’s skewed sex ratio, so he looked outside the state. Sandeep left for Delhi in a bus from Jind on July 10. He then travelled by train to Raiganj, where he reached on July 21 and approached the marriage registrar along with his girlfriend, Bharti Rani Sarkar, who sought his Covid-19 report before appearing in the office for signing documents. But as luck would have it, Sandeep tested positive on July 22. Sandeep, who has studied till Class X, said he has an elder brother and a younger one, and their father died 21 years ago. The siblings live in the same house with their mother and grandmother. “My elder brother (29) got married to a woman from Bihar two years ago, but she left him. Thereafter, due to skewed sex ratio in Haryana, it was not possible to find a girl easily for marriage. In October of 2019, I came in contact with Bharti on social media and fell in love with her. She promised to marry me in March 2020, but lockdown was imposed. When train services resumed, I decided to go over there to solemnise the marriage, but now I am still waiting to get married,” he said. Deputy civil surgeon Pale Ram Kataria said after getting the report from their Bengal counterparts, they had sent a team to Nandgarh to collect the samples of Sandeep’s family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/corona-plays-spoiler-in-jind-mans-wb-wedding-plan/articleshow/77160068.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Jodhpur||Jaipur: SMS Hospital begins counselling of Covid survivors for plasma donation||JAIPUR: Prior to the opening of the first plasma bank in the state at Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital, the authorities are on the job of counselling those who recovered from Covid-19 to convince them for plasma donation. Authorities on Friday stated that SMS Hospital will invite people not more than 10 per day in batches since it takes an hour to complete the plasma donation from a donor. The SMS administration cured nearly 1,242 patients who were admitted as Covid-19 patients and later discharged after having their reports negative. “Our teams are calling them up and trying to convince them how plasma donation can help others in fighting Covid-19. We have planned to invite those who have consented in different batches. Each batch would consist of not more than 10 people at a time,” said Dr Ajit Singh, a member of the core group of Covid-19 treatment at the SMS hospital. He added that many patients who have recovered have some myths which need to be cleared. “It is a one-hour procedure so they have to spare their time accordingly. Our teams are in touch with them to tell it is a safe donation,” Singh added. The collected plasma would be stored in the bank and would be transfused into the patients as per requirement. “As a matter of fact, plasma should be donated between 28 days and four months after their recovery,” he added. Meanwhile, health minister Raghu Sharma launched a poster urging the Covid-19 survivors to donate more and more plasma. “We are aiming at increasing the recovery rate. Thus looking at encouraging results of the plasma therapy we are trying to convince the Covid-19 survivors to donate their plasma,” he said. SMS Hospital will be the first in the state to set up a plasma bank which will be useful for Covid-19 treatment. The plasma collected at the bank will be used for convalescent plasma therapy as the hospital claimed that it has been found effective in Covid-19 treatment. According to authorities, 47 patients were successfully provided the plasma therapy treatment in the state who got recovered from Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/sms-begins-counselling-of-covid-survivors-for-plasma-donation/articleshow/77163228.cms||Ashish Mehta
July 25, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Male tiger MT-3 had lost 51kg in 5 months, turned anaemic||KOTA: Wildlife enthusiasts have blamed the forest department of poor monitoring saying that the absence of detection of disease on time led to the tragic death of the 4-year-old free-ranging male tiger MT–3 in Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR) on Thursday morning. However, the forest department has brushed aside the allegation saying that the animal had turned anaemic, huge amounts of fat was deposited in its body with heart chambers blocked and lungs severely infected. The infection and fat deposit in the deceased big cat was most likely due to its relying to feed on feral cattle prey base rather than natural prey base in the reserve, the forest officials argued. Nevertheless, the 51-kg weight loss of the deceased tiger in last five months and its turning anaemic reflects and verifies the poor monitoring of the department which couldn’t monitor the constant weight loss. On receiving injuries on face, the MT–3 was operated upon for maggots in March this year when it weighed 243kg, while at the time of postmortem on Thursday, it weighed only 192kg, showing a weight loss of 51kg. “The alarm bells rang on Sunday evening when monitoring team went near the kill by the tiger to check the change in its eating habits, and it was found that the tiger had consumed only a little portion of the kill,” chief conservator of forest (CCF), MHTR, Anand Mohan told TOI on Friday. During the postmortem, it was revealed there were lumps of fat within the blood in the heart. The lump was almost the size of a closed fist, may be weighing between 50 and 100 gram, and the lungs were oozing out fluid mixed with pus, the CCF said, adding there was also huge amounts of fat in layers, deposited in the body. “The devil’s argument on it would be, suppose they (team of experts) would have approached the animal two days earlier, even then reviving the animal with such a state of internal organs, would have been next to impossible,” he claimed. “Besides, it was also revealed the MT–3 had turned anaemic,” he added. Meanwhile, wildlife enthusiasts have blamed the forest department of negligence in monitoring the animal. It is natural death but forest staff has somewhere shown negligence as they could not diagnose the symptoms of the disease in time, said Tapeshwar Singh Bhatti, a wildlife enthusiast and member of local advisory committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mt-3-had-lost-51kg-in-5-mths-turned-anaemic/articleshow/77158969.cms||Rajiv Saxena
July 25, 2020||Guwahati||Tripura records 10th Covid death||AGARTALA: A 76-year-old man succumbed to Covid-19 in Tripura late on Thursday, taking the state’s toll to 10, while 206 fresh cases pushed the total count to 3,675, a health department official said on Friday. The man died at the Agartala Government Medical College as he was suffering from cardiac problems and had high blood pressure as well, the official said. A resident of Udaipur in Gomati district, Das was admitted to the hospital following chest pain on July 18. He tested for positive for coronavirus the next day. Chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb, in a tweet late on Thursday, said, “206 people found COVID-19 positive out of 4,473 samples tested.” The number of active cases in Tripura currently stands at 1,575, while 2,072 people have recovered so far. Eighteen people have migrated out of the state. The CM, who also holds the health portfolio, had held a high-level meeting on Thursday to review the Covid-19 situation. Chief Secretary Manoj Kumar and other senior officials of the health department were present at the meet. “Chaired a high-level meeting along with CS, DG in- charge, ADG, ACS & Senior officials of Health Department regarding the latest Covid-19 situation. Took ground reports to strengthen the fight against the pandemic in a better and effective way. We are monitoring the situation,” Deb wrote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/tripura-records-10th-covid-death/articleshow/77155445.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Agartala||Tripura records 10th Covid death||AGARTALA: A 76-year-old man succumbed to Covid-19 in Tripura late on Thursday, taking the state’s toll to 10, while 206 fresh cases pushed the total count to 3,675, a health department official said on Friday. The man died at the Agartala Government Medical College as he was suffering from cardiac problems and had high blood pressure as well, the official said. A resident of Udaipur in Gomati district, Das was admitted to the hospital following chest pain on July 18. He tested for positive for coronavirus the next day. Chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb, in a tweet late on Thursday, said, “206 people found COVID-19 positive out of 4,473 samples tested.” The number of active cases in Tripura currently stands at 1,575, while 2,072 people have recovered so far. Eighteen people have migrated out of the state. The CM, who also holds the health portfolio, had held a high-level meeting on Thursday to review the Covid-19 situation. Chief Secretary Manoj Kumar and other senior officials of the health department were present at the meet. “Chaired a high-level meeting along with CS, DG in- charge, ADG, ACS & Senior officials of Health Department regarding the latest Covid-19 situation. Took ground reports to strengthen the fight against the pandemic in a better and effective way. We are monitoring the situation,” Deb wrote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agartala/tripura-records-10th-covid-death/articleshow/77166626.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Guwahati||Manipur count rises to 2,146 with 31 fresh Covid cases||IMPHAL: Manipur recorded 31 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours at the VRDLs of RIMS and JNIMS hospitals in Imphal and the district hospitals of Jiribam and Thoubal, taking the state’s tally to 2,146. Among them include two employees of RIMS, an X-ray technician and an IRB personnel who is the security guard, sources said. The two are among 210 staffers who underwent Covid-19 tests after an attendant of the hospital tested positive a few days back. A state health department statement on Friday said the newly-infected persons are residents of Churachandpur, Imphal East, Imphal West, Thoubal and Ukhrul districts. An Assam Rifles personnel posted at a unit in Jiribam district bordering Assam is also one of them. Six individuals from Thoubal and Imphal West district are patients having no travel history to outside the state, while the rest are returnees from different parts of the country recently, it said, adding that all necessary precautionary measures like contact tracing and containment have been taken up. In the past 24 hours, 31 patients were also discharged from different Covid care centres. 1,491 patients have been recovered from the disease to date, leaving 655 active cases. As such, the recovery rate of Manipur now stands at 69.47%. Meanwhile, the police continued to crackdown on lockdown and curfew violators. During the drive, 227 persons were detained and released after warning, a police statement said, adding that 23 vehicles were held and fines to the tune of Rs 8,100 were collected from the owners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/manipur-count-rises-to-2146-with-31-fresh-cases/articleshow/77155452.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Guwahati||Lockdown in Shillong from July 26 midnight||SHILLONG: The Meghalaya government on Friday decided to reimpose a complete lockdown in Shillong and surrounding areas from July 26 midnight to July 29 midnight following a sudden spike in cases. Deputy chief minister Prestone Tynsong said the decision was taken after inputs and suggestions from the state health department were reviewed during a meeting chaired by chief minister Conrad K Sangma. This comes after a 67-year-old lady succumbed to the novel coronavirus at the North Eastern Indira Gandhi Regional Institute of Health and Medical Sciences late on Thursday. Five people have died to date in Meghalaya because of the novel coronavirus. Health Minister AL Hek said the state has registered 52 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s tally to 587. There are currently 495 active cases as 87 people have recovered. Tynsong said the state government is concerned about the spike in cases and wants to make sure that there is no community spread. “If the situation worsens, the lockdown may be further extended,” he added. During the lockdown, health authorities will be aggressively engaged in contact tracing, he said and urged all concerned stakeholders to cooperate with the authorities. Meanwhile, several areas in the city have been declared containment zones with immediate effect. Mawbah, Barapathar, Jhalupara, Upper Mawprem, Nongrah, Mawlai Umshing, Mawlai Umjaiur, Nongrim Hills, Lachumiere, Laitumkhrah Nazareth, Golf Links Khlieh Shnong besides Block-II of Lumpyngngad localities have been declared as containment zones, while the health department and district administration may declare other zones as containment depending upon the necessity and situation, the deputy CM said. Of the 495 active cases in Meghalaya, 419 are from East Khasi Hills district, 41 from Ri Bhoi, 15 from West Garo Hills, 8 from West Jaintia Hills, 4 from East Jaintia Hills, 2 from South West Garo Hills and 1 each from East Garo Hills and North Garo Hills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/lockdown-in-shillong-from-july-26-midnight/articleshow/77155453.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Lucknow||After reality check, Lucknow Development Authority starts Covid protocols in apartments||LUCKNOW: Lucknow Development Authority has started implementing Covid-19 safety protocols in three-storyed and above apartments in Gomtinagar Extension after TOI highlighted the Authority’s initial lax response. Last week, LDA vice chairman SK Dwivedi had directed executive engineers to visit apartments and make safety arrangements in collaboration with the Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs). However, no officer visited the apartments their jurisdiction for a few days. After TOI highlighted the fact, LDA officials have visited 13 apartments so far. “The nodal incharges have established Covid safety protocols like setting up health desks and keeping records of all the visitors. Besides, sanitization drives have also been launched in colonies under our jurisdiction,” said Dwivedi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/after-reality-check-lda-starts-covid-protocols-in-apartments/articleshow/77160080.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Pune||Deliveries resume, but some eateries hold back in Pune||PUNE: Food deliveries resumed on Friday with the lockdown ending, but close to 50 and odd restaurants in the city did not begin takeaway services, Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association (PRAHA) told TOI. Sources from food ordering and delivery portal Swiggy stated that almost 96% restaurants tied up with the platform began operating from Friday and, by the weekend, more are expected to join the list. As per rough estimates provided by PRAHA, of the 8,500-odd restaurants in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, around 250 started takeaway services during the last few months. “On Friday, when the lockdown came to an end, a bulk of the restaurants restarted services, while around 10-20% did not do so. The civic bodies’ orders on lifting the lockdown came late on Thursday, making it impossible for the restaurants to begin takeaway operations,” said PRAHA president Ganesh Shetty. By the weekend, a larger number of restaurants are expected to resume delivery services. Food delivery portals too showed fewer restaurant options on Friday afternoon but more joined in as the day progressed. A spokesperson for Zomato said, “We are operating at 70% capacity since February. On Friday, we operated at a similar capacity.” A Swiggy spokesperson stated, “We worked with restaurants across Pune to ensure most were active in time. Over 96% restaurants tied up with us were live on the platform on Friday, resulting in robust order numbers. The city’s top restaurants are available to consumers. We are expecting a few more to be available by the weekend.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/deliveries-resume-but-some-eateries-hold-back/articleshow/77159048.cms||Neha Madaan
July 25, 2020||Pune||Drones watch over sealed PCMC areas||Pimpri Chinchwad: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation and the police have jointly started drone surveillance in containment zones within the civic limits. Officials said the main purpose of the surveillance was to watch out for violations. At present, slum pockets such as Anandnagar, Bhatnagar and Ajanthanagar are some of the worst affected areas. “Minimizing human contact is crucial to tackling the pandemic and protecting the frontline workers. Drones will prove quite helpful to trace violators in slums, where the lanes are narrow and population density is high,” an official said. He said citizens need to avoid unnecessary gatherings, start using masks, and practice hygiene etiquette. The municipal corporation closed a few market areas in the past as social distancing was not being maintained and would not hesitate to do it again if the safety measures were not followed, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/drones-watch-over-sealed-pcmc-areas/articleshow/77159061.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man accused of molestation, son of making threats||AHMEDABAD: A 44-year-old woman from Naroda on Monday lodged a complaint accusing one Bhagyesh Sevak of molesting her and his son Harsh of threatening her. Inspector Jaydeep Patel of Naroda police station said that they registered on offence and detained both accused persons on Friday and sent them for pre-arrest Covid-19 tests. The woman said that the incident in question took place on July 20, but she did not lodge a complaint earlier out of fear. According to the FIR, on July 20, Bhagyesh Sevak came to her house when her husband and children had gone out. He asked her if the mason who was to come to their house had arrived. “She stated that Sevak told her that the washing area of his house also needed repairs and invited her to go there and take a look so she could tell the mason what had to be done. She first told him that her husband would speak to the mason, but as he insisted, she went to his house,” said a police official. The FIR states that there was no one else at the house and Sevak grabbed her hand, threw her on the bed and tried to disrobe her but his son walked in. She then ran out of the house. She later told her husband about the incident. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-accused-of-molestation-son-of-making-threats/articleshow/77159050.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Stamp duty collection takes over Rs 500 crore beating on lockdown||JAIPUR: The state government has lost stamp duty collection of over Rs 500 crore during the lockdown from March to June as realty market transactions came to a halt. However, data show the receipts have bounced back in June and continues to be at par with last year’s collections in July. But there is still uncertainty if the department can take out its target of Rs 5,600 crore for the current financial year, factoring in a subdued performance of housing market. “Our collections grow in the range of 10-15%. Last year, the receipts grew close to 10%. But this year, there is an uncertainty,” said an official of the stamp and registration department. He said that if the trend witnessed in June and July continues, the target of Rs 5,600 crore will be achieved but a lot depends on how the realty market behaves which is again hinged to the spread of the pandemic. “June and the half of July could have witnessed registrations that could not happen in March, April and May. So, the recovery should not be treated as a trend. Collections over the next two to three months can give a better idea of if housing purchases are happening or not at the scale that can help reach closer to the target,” said the official. Over 90% of the stamp duty of the government comes from real estate transactions though there are 34 documents on which it is levied. But some substantial duty was realized in June from Reliance after the company formed a joint venture with BP. “About 115 petrol pumps were registered under Reliance Jio BP JV name which substantially contributed to the stamp duty collections in June,” said a source. Builders in the state said that even before the Covid outbreak, demand for housing was sluggish despite price reductions. Now with salary cuts and uncertainty over jobs, people are less confident of buying a house. “The demand is slowly coming back but we don’t know when the industry will reach the pre-Covid days. It could be 3 months, 6 months or till April 2021. There is not much scope to reduce prices either to attract buyers because the rates were already closer to the bottom when the pandemic hit country,” said Anand Mishra, a prominent builder in the city. But property developers said that some are reducing prices to tide over the liquidity crunch but the reductions are desperate attempts by the financially stressed builders. RERA has extended 6 month relaxation for completion of projects keeping in view the harddship of the builders owing to Covid. This means a lot of new supply will not hit the market and accordingly, the possible transactions will not take place as well. This is going to reduce the stamp duty collections of the department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/stamp-duty-collection-takes-over-rs-500-crore-beating-on-lockdown/articleshow/77162858.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
July 25, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Stamp duty collection takes over Rs 500 crore beating on lockdown||JAIPUR: The state government has lost stamp duty collection of over Rs 500 crore during the lockdown from March to June as realty market transactions came to a halt. However, data show the receipts have bounced back in June and continues to be at par with last year’s collections in July. But there is still uncertainty if the department can take out its target of Rs 5,600 crore for the current financial year, factoring in a subdued performance of housing market. “Our collections grow in the range of 10-15%. Last year, the receipts grew close to 10%. But this year, there is an uncertainty,” said an official of the stamp and registration department. He said that if the trend witnessed in June and July continues, the target of Rs 5,600 crore will be achieved but a lot depends on how the realty market behaves which is again hinged to the spread of the pandemic. “June and the half of July could have witnessed registrations that could not happen in March, April and May. So, the recovery should not be treated as a trend. Collections over the next two to three months can give a better idea of if housing purchases are happening or not at the scale that can help reach closer to the target,” said the official. Over 90% of the stamp duty of the government comes from real estate transactions though there are 34 documents on which it is levied. But some substantial duty was realized in June from Reliance after the company formed a joint venture with BP. “About 115 petrol pumps were registered under Reliance Jio BP JV name which substantially contributed to the stamp duty collections in June,” said a source. Builders in the state said that even before the Covid outbreak, demand for housing was sluggish despite price reductions. Now with salary cuts and uncertainty over jobs, people are less confident of buying a house. “The demand is slowly coming back but we don’t know when the industry will reach the pre-Covid days. It could be 3 months, 6 months or till April 2021. There is not much scope to reduce prices either to attract buyers because the rates were already closer to the bottom when the pandemic hit country,” said Anand Mishra, a prominent builder in the city. But property developers said that some are reducing prices to tide over the liquidity crunch but the reductions are desperate attempts by the financially stressed builders. RERA has extended 6 month relaxation for completion of projects keeping in view the harddship of the builders owing to Covid. This means a lot of new supply will not hit the market and accordingly, the possible transactions will not take place as well. This is going to reduce the stamp duty collections of the department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/stamp-duty-collection-takes-over-rs-500-crore-beating-on-lockdown/articleshow/77162860.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
July 25, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Stamp duty collection takes over Rs 500 crore beating on lockdown||JAIPUR: The state government has lost stamp duty collection of over Rs 500 crore during the lockdown from March to June as realty market transactions came to a halt. However, data show the receipts have bounced back in June and continues to be at par with last year’s collections in July. But there is still uncertainty if the department can take out its target of Rs 5,600 crore for the current financial year, factoring in a subdued performance of housing market. “Our collections grow in the range of 10-15%. Last year, the receipts grew close to 10%. But this year, there is an uncertainty,” said an official of the stamp and registration department. He said that if the trend witnessed in June and July continues, the target of Rs 5,600 crore will be achieved but a lot depends on how the realty market behaves which is again hinged to the spread of the pandemic. “June and the half of July could have witnessed registrations that could not happen in March, April and May. So, the recovery should not be treated as a trend. Collections over the next two to three months can give a better idea of if housing purchases are happening or not at the scale that can help reach closer to the target,” said the official. Over 90% of the stamp duty of the government comes from real estate transactions though there are 34 documents on which it is levied. But some substantial duty was realized in June from Reliance after the company formed a joint venture with BP. “About 115 petrol pumps were registered under Reliance Jio BP JV name which substantially contributed to the stamp duty collections in June,” said a source. Builders in the state said that even before the Covid outbreak, demand for housing was sluggish despite price reductions. Now with salary cuts and uncertainty over jobs, people are less confident of buying a house. “The demand is slowly coming back but we don’t know when the industry will reach the pre-Covid days. It could be 3 months, 6 months or till April 2021. There is not much scope to reduce prices either to attract buyers because the rates were already closer to the bottom when the pandemic hit country,” said Anand Mishra, a prominent builder in the city. But property developers said that some are reducing prices to tide over the liquidity crunch but the reductions are desperate attempts by the financially stressed builders. RERA has extended 6 month relaxation for completion of projects keeping in view the harddship of the builders owing to Covid. This means a lot of new supply will not hit the market and accordingly, the possible transactions will not take place as well. This is going to reduce the stamp duty collections of the department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/stamp-duty-collection-takes-over-rs-500-crore-beating-on-lockdown/articleshow/77159065.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
July 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Rs 300cr spent on Covid care and migrants: Amarinder||Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Friday said the Rs 64 crore in the CM Relief Fund being questioned by the opposition SAD was a miniscule of the over Rs 300 crore already spent by his government in providing Covid-19 care and related expenses. Ridiculing the SAD for criticising the state government for spending only Rs 2.28 crore from the amount accumulated in the CM Relief Fund for Covid support, Amarinder said the source of financing Covid-related expenditures was totally irrelevant. The important thing was that despite total absence of financial support from the Union government, of which SAD is part, his government had not allowed the fiscal crunch to come in the way of Covid management, he said. If the Akalis were at all concerned about Covid care in the state, they should ask the Centre why they had failed to support the Punjab government in this critical time, said Amarinder. The money being contributed by concerned citizens to the CM Relief Fund was an emergency fund that the state government had set aside to meet exigent urgent needs as and when required, when there is no immediate alternate resource available to it, he added. Amarinder pointed out that given the uncertainty surrounding the pandemic, which could continue for many months and perhaps even a year or more, it was important to keep such emergency funds in readiness to meet any eventuality. However, the Akalis clearly did not believe in such emergency preparedness, as was evident from the many instances of mishandling of crisis situations during their 10-year-rule, he quipped. The Rs 64,86,10,456 balance lying in the Relief Fund was a “drop in the ocean” compared to the crore of rupees already spent by his government on infrastructure upgradation, setting up of Covid Care Centres, roping in additional medical and para-medical staff, purchase of PPE kits and other essential equipment for battling the coronavirus, Amarinder pointed out. Punjab has spent Rs 29.5 crore on enabling 5.20 lakh migrant workers to go back to their home states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rs-300cr-spent-on-covid-care-and-migrants-amarinder/articleshow/77160075.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Dehradun||Govt allocates Rs 50 cr for cancer care institute in Haldwani||Dehradun: Uttarakhand government on Friday allocated Rs 50 crore for the construction of a cancer care institute at Haldwani Medical College. The government has also sent a proposal to make a medical college in Kotdwar to the Centre whose final approval is still pending. The orders regarding opening of a special cancer institute under Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani have been issued by Amit Negi, secretary of health and finance. “The fund for the construction of a cancer care institute in Haldwani has been allotted from emergency funds under special circumstances. The concerned department will have to give monthly records of the expenses by the 8th of every month,” said Negi. According to the government, the cancer institute will cost over Rs 100 crores. Out of the total amount, the Union government’s share was supposed to be 90% and the rest 10% had to be given by the state. The project has been initiated under the strengthening of tertiary care for cancer scheme of National Programme for Prevention and Control of Cancer, Diabetes, Cardiovascular Diseases, and Stroke, 2019-20. The secretary also informed that a proposal to construct a medical college in Kotdwar (Pauri) has also been sent to the Union ministry. Also, the Centre, in May, had approved the construction of a medical college in Haridwar, Rudrapur, and Pithoragarh. The plots for all these facilities have already been earmarked. The state, at present, has three operating medical colleges in Dehradun, Haldwani, and Srinagar. The infrastructure of a medical college in Almora is also ready but the academic session year in the facility has got delayed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-allocates-rs-50-cr-for-cancer-care-institute-in-haldwani/articleshow/77155494.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 25, 2020||Dehradun||PM likely to inaugurate country’s longestmotorable single lane bridge in Tehri||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to inaugurate the Dobra-Chanti bridge, the country’s longest motorable single-lane bridge in Tehri district of the Himalayan state. According to officials, the work on the bridge has been completed and only the final checks and load testing are left.The work is likely to finish by September, as per sources. “I have requested the PM for the inauguration of Rishikesh railway station, Dobra-Chanti bridge and a STP unit in Rishikesh. We are looking forward to a date from the PMO. In the present scenario, it is likely that the bridge and railway station are digitally inaugurated by the PM,” CM Rawat said. Hari Om Sharma, the engineer-in-chief of Public Works Department (PWD), which is looking after the project, said, “The work on the bridge is complete. The final checks and load testing work is left and it will not take a long time.” He added that work is also in progress for the 2-km approach road to the bridge. “The bridge will be ready by September. Rainfall in the region has disrupted work but the remaining job will be completed soon,” said Sharma. The ambitious project has been in the works for the past 14 years. The construction of the Dobra-Chanti bridge was started in the tenure of N D Tiwari government in 2006 and the estimated cost of the project was around Rs 89 crore at the time. The bridge will serve a population of around 3 lakh— from Pratapnagar to Thaurdar in Tehri district. The government claimed that the 440-metre long bridge, built at a cost of Rs 150 crore, would be the longest motorable single-lane bridge in the country. Notably, the need for the bridge arose as an earlier bridge for reaching Pratapnagar had submerged in the waters of Tehri lake, following which people of the area had to cover a distance of 100-km to reach the district headquarters. The distance from Pratapnagar to Tehri is around 70 km.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pm-likely-to-inaugurate-countrys-longestmotorable-single-lane-bridge-in-tehri/articleshow/77155480.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fraudster charged with inciting disaffection in SRP||Ahmedabad: The crime branch lodged a complaint on Friday against Hardik Padhiyaar of Banaskantha for cheating State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) jawan Mitesh Chaudhary. Crime branch sources said that Padhiyaar used the ruse of starting an agitation for a rise in pay of SRPF personnel.A senior crime branch official said that Padhiyaar had added Chaudhary to a group on Telegram, an instant messaging and voice over IP service. On Thursday, Padhiyaar sent Chaudhary a message stating that funds were needed to fight for the rights of SRPF personnel.“As demanded by Padhiyaar, Chaudhary transferred Rs 300 to a designated account,” the crime branch official said. “But later, Chaudhary realized that Padhiyaar is a cheat.” A complaint against Padhiyaar has been filed under Sections 406 (breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code. The Police (Incitement to Disaffection) Act, 1922, and the Disaster Management Act have been invoked as well.Crime branch sources said that Padhiyaar had been arrested by police in Banaskantha sometime ago. The crime branch has asked for the details of that arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fraudster-charged-with-inciting-disaffection-in-srp/articleshow/77159063.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Stamp duty collection takes over Rs 500 crore beating on lockdown||JAIPUR: The state government has lost stamp duty collection of over Rs 500 crore during the lockdown from March to June as realty market transactions came to a halt. However, data show the receipts have bounced back in June and continues to be at par with last year’s collections in July. But there is still uncertainty if the department can take out its target of Rs 5,600 crore for the current financial year, factoring in a subdued performance of housing market. “Our collections grow in the range of 10-15%. Last year, the receipts grew close to 10%. But this year, there is an uncertainty,” said an official of the stamp and registration department. He said that if the trend witnessed in June and July continues, the target of Rs 5,600 crore will be achieved but a lot depends on how the realty market behaves which is again hinged to the spread of the pandemic. “June and the half of July could have witnessed registrations that could not happen in March, April and May. So, the recovery should not be treated as a trend. Collections over the next two to three months can give a better idea of if housing purchases are happening or not at the scale that can help reach closer to the target,” said the official. Over 90% of the stamp duty of the government comes from real estate transactions though there are 34 documents on which it is levied. But some substantial duty was realized in June from Reliance after the company formed a joint venture with BP. “About 115 petrol pumps were registered under Reliance Jio BP JV name which substantially contributed to the stamp duty collections in June,” said a source. Builders in the state said that even before the Covid outbreak, demand for housing was sluggish despite price reductions. Now with salary cuts and uncertainty over jobs, people are less confident of buying a house. “The demand is slowly coming back but we don’t know when the industry will reach the pre-Covid days. It could be 3 months, 6 months or till April 2021. There is not much scope to reduce prices either to attract buyers because the rates were already closer to the bottom when the pandemic hit country,” said Anand Mishra, a prominent builder in the city. But property developers said that some are reducing prices to tide over the liquidity crunch but the reductions are desperate attempts by the financially stressed builders. RERA has extended 6 month relaxation for completion of projects keeping in view the harddship of the builders owing to Covid. This means a lot of new supply will not hit the market and accordingly, the possible transactions will not take place as well. This is going to reduce the stamp duty collections of the department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/stamp-duty-collection-takes-over-rs-500-crore-beating-on-lockdown/articleshow/77162859.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
July 25, 2020||Dehradun||Tiger cub found dead in Corbett||Dehradun: A tiger cub's body was found lying on the road near Jhirna zone of Corbett Tiger Reserve on Friday. The cub’s post-mortem was conducted before it was buried in the forest. The cub's body was noticed by a team of forest officials who were on a routine patrol near compartment 5 of Laldhang block in Jhirna range. "The cub is expected to be 4 to 5 months old. The exact cause of death will be established after the detailed post-mortem report is out," said Rahul, director of Jim Corbett. According to reports, the cub had a few wounds on the body, but all the body parts were intact. Forest department officials said that the cub may have got separated from the mother and have died after some other animal attacked the little one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tiger-cub-found-dead-in-corbett/articleshow/77155510.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 25, 2020||Meerut||Meerut killings: Cops to invoke NSA against accused, brother also booked for murder & wife for conspiracy||Strap: Bank Accounts, Properties Of Shamshad Also Being Scanned, Say PoliceMeerut: Mohammad Shamshad, 35, betrayed no signs of nerves for over three months. He would slyly sit through the questioning at the police station about his missing live-in partner and her daughter, 10, and then trudge back home into the bedroom where he had killed and buried them under a coarsely plastered floor.Neighbours are shocked and so are the policemen of Meerut’s Partapur who are now planning to invoke provisions of stringent National Security Act (NSA) against the accused.Shamshad was arrested on Wednesday for the alleged killings of Priya Chaudhary, 32, and her daughter. The bodies were also exhumed from the bedroom of his two-storey house. Shamshad, impersonating as Amit Gurjar, had “trapped” Priya about five years ago, police said. But they fell out later after Priya discovered Shamshad’s real identity and also that he was a married man. Priya’s close friend, Chanchal, consistently pursued the case leading to the unearthing of the bodies.Police on Friday also said that they were scanning the bank accounts of Shamshad and Priya. And details of Shamshad’s properties were also being looked into amid allegations that he had amassed huge wealth within a short span of six years after coming from Bihar. His brother, Dilavar, has also been booked for murder, police said.Meanwhile, a police team was also sent to Bihar to arrest Shamshad’s wife Afsana, who was booked under IPC sec 120 B (criminal conspiracy). Meerut’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Ajay Sahni said, “Shamshad’s brother Dilawar’s active involvement was also found in the murder, so he was booked under IPC’s section 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence).”“Proceedings to slap NSA against Shamshad have been started,” he added.Sub-inspector (SI) Veer Singh was also suspended on Friday amid allegations that he tried to coerce complainant Chanchal into taking back the case. A few audio clips purportedly containing the conversations between the police officer and Chanchal had surfaced.SSP Sahni said, “SI Veer Singh who was found calling the woman complainant at odd hours and asking her to withdraw the case has been suspended. Besides, another inspector, Bhupender Singh, has already been shifted and sent to Police Lines. In addition, the role of the entire police station is now under scanner and SP (city) is holding an inquiry in this regard.”Chanchal, a close friend of the deceased, had first filed a complaint about the sudden disappearance of Priya at Partapur police station on April 15. She had then suspected the role of Shamshad into it.It took police another three months to file an FIR after SSP’s intervention. Chanchal had produced a number of audio clippings in which Partapur police officials had been heard asking her to withdraw the case. In her FIR filed on July 14, Chanchal even alleged that she was forced to write a statement saying that she was no longer interested in pursuing the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-killings-cops-to-invoke-nsa-against-accused-brother-also-booked-for-murder-wife-for-conspiracy/articleshow/77155520.cms||Sandeep Rai
July 25, 2020||Meerut||Man mowed down by anti-riot van in Meerut||Meerut: A man was mowed down by an anti-riot van, which was allegedly being driven a "drunk" constable.The victim has been identified as Kishan Gupta, who worked at a sports good manufacturing firm in Surajkund. The victim, in his 40s, was heading home from work on a bicycle when he was hit by the speeding van on Thursday evening.He was dragged for few metres before the van came to a screeching halt on the busy road in Surajkund area. Angry residents of the area roughed up the constable, who was driving the van. He was, however, rescued by police from the neighbouring Nauchandi police station. Gupta, who was taken to a local hospital, succumbed to his injuries in the hospital on Thursday night. Superintendent of police (city) Akhilesh Narayan Singh said, "An FIR has been registered under 304A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC against the driver, who is currently hospitalised. Another case has been filed against the locals who assaulted the driver. We are investigating the case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-mowed-down-by-anti-riot-van-in-meerut/articleshow/77155533.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Nagpur||SC seeks centre, state response on rapid antibody tests||Nagpur: The Supreme Court has sought a response on use of rapid antibody test kits for Covid-19 on asymptomatic patients from centre, state and Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). The directives came while hearing a petition filed by Citizens Forum for Equality president Madhukar Kukde challenging Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court’s orders which had disposed of the plea without any specific directives to the respondents and leaving it on them to take a decision in this regard. The special leave petition (SLP) was listed before a bench comprising justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and MR Shah. Pleading on petitioner’s behalf, counsels Tushar Mandlekar, Rohan Malviya and Rishi Jain informed the apex court that guidelines were issued by ICMR for conducting RT-PCR tests on front-line warriors on July 16. Solicitor General of India Tushar Mehta argued for union of India and ICMR while Balram Das held brief for the Maharashtra government. Mandlekar pointed out that in spite of Covid-19 cases spiralling in the country, ICMR and state government are neither conducting rapid tests for citizens nor fixing the bare minimum price of kits. He argued that rapid test is cheap and quick in nature and is very useful in detecting antibodies in infected human beings. He also urged to secure 50% beds in private hospitals for Covid-19 patients. The SC bench directed petitioner to serve petition copies to respondents and sought response from respective counsels within two weeks. The petitioner prayed for conducting rapid antibody test on all front-line workers, including doctors, police, pharmacists and para-medical staff. Earlier, city-based pulmonologist Dr Rajesh Swarnakar had filed an SLP in the top court praying for mandatorily starting the rapid antibody test as a screening tool for detecting Covid-19 virus. According to him, the ICMR had directed to start the tests in clusters with containment zones and in large migration gatherings for screening and surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sc-seeks-centre-state-response-on-rapid-antibody-tests/articleshow/77157332.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 25, 2020||Dehradun||Don’t fell trees at construction sites, translocate them: Forest dept||Dehradun: Trees will be translocated, not felled, if they need to be removed from construction sites, said the Uttarakhand forest department in an order issued on Friday. According to principal chief conservator of forests (HoFF) Jairaj (who uses only his first name), the builder in charge of the construction work will have to shift the tree in his own capacity after officials of the forest department decide on a site where it will be translocated to. “Translocation should be promoted so that felling trees is reduced to a minimum,” read the forest department’s orders, which will also apply to any renovation or construction work at government buildings. The orders also state that trees like Peepal, Banyan or Neem must be preserved and translocated only if absolutely necessary. “The forest department will assist in all possible ways in the translocation of trees. If there is no space in the city, the trees can be moved to a forest area,” said Jairaj. “A team comprising members of the forest department, local representatives and environmentalists will be formed to offer suggestions on translocation of trees within the civic limit,” he added. The forest department has also asked for the details of a tree to be translocated to be shared, so people can approach the department with objections if they have any.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dont-fell-trees-at-construction-sites-translocate-them-forest-dept/articleshow/77155548.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 25, 2020||Pune||MLA Mukta Tilak, mother recover from Covid-19||Pune: Kasba Peth MLA Mukta Tilak on Friday attended phone calls from party workers and people living in the constituency she represents after spending 17 days in home isolation. Along with her 81-year-old mother, Tilak had tested positive for Covid-19 in the first week of July. Doctors advised home quarantine as both of them were asymptomatic. The isolation period finally ended on Thursday. Tilak said that besides keeping a positive approach during treatment, following the doctor’s advice proved vital in the successful recovery. “There is no reason to be scared as long as one follows the doctor’s instruction well,” Tilak told TOI. The first-time MLA took to social media to announce her recovery from the infection. She said, “Soon after our tests came positive, we were advised by the doctors on further treatment. Since both of us had not developed major symptoms, the doctors told us to remain at home in complete isolation. We spent the entire period of isolation in separate rooms and strictly followed every instruction issued by the doctors.” “During the entire period, my mother did not develop any symptoms though I had mild sneezing but it was managed well. Besides the medicines, the doctors had advised us Vitamin C and Zinc tablets. I was undergoing blood tests as a precautionary measure. The collective effort and following the doctor’s instructions helped both of us overcome the infection,” Tilak said. The former mayor now plans to rejoin work soon. “Covid-19 cases are on the rise in the city. Efforts are underway to control the spread of the virus. Over the next few days, I will be working from home but I’m planning to step out very soon to join the mitigation work,” Tilak added. Besides Tilak, city mayor Muralidhar Mohol has also resumed work recently. Mohol had also tested positive for the coronavirus and had been in home isolation until last week. Tilak, who served as Pune mayor from 2017, when the Bharatiya Janata Party stormed into power in the Pune Municipal Corporation, was elected to the assembly last year from the Kasba Peth constituency after the incumbent, Girish Bapat, got elected as the Pune Member of Parliament.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mla-mukta-tilak-mother-recover-from-covid-19/articleshow/77159066.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 25, 2020||Meerut||Irked by ‘lavish’ ways of his ‘violent’ son, man hires goons & gets him killed||Meerut: A man in UP’s Hapur district allegedly got his son, 20, killed after being fed up with his "lavish ways, consistent demands of money and violent behaviour". Rishabh Tomar, who lived in Ghaziabad’s Defence Colony, was found dead with his throat slit on the driving seat of his new car on Wednesday morning in Hapur’s Simbhaoli area. Police took just two days to crack the case.The father, Kamal Chand Tomar, and two criminals he had hired and paid Rs 2lakh to get Rishabh killed have been arrested in Hapur.Kamal, who owns an automobile repair shop, said, “My son had lost his senses. He used to hurl abuses and even beat me and my wife for money. He once broke an arm of his mother. I took him to a doctor also and he was even under treatment. But, every now and then he would demand money. Our lives had become hell. I was left with no choice.”Hapur’s superintendent of police (SP) Sanjeev Suman said, “Kamal Chand paid Rs 2lakh to his neighbour, Kamal Pal, to kill Rishabh. Pal hired his friends Pramod, who already knew Rishabh well. They took Rishabh to Simbhaoli on some pretext and they consumed liquor. Then they killed Risabh.”The SP said that he got suspicious about Kamal’s role soon after the murder. “We got suspicious at the very moment when Rishabh’s parents came and told us about the murder. They were not bothered much and even asked us not to conduct a post-mortem examination on the body. They were also not keen on filing an FIR. A detailed investigation revealed the plot. We have recovered Rs 1.3lakh from the three youths.” ReplyReply allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/irked-by-lavish-ways-of-his-violent-son-man-hires-goons-gets-him-killed/articleshow/77155507.cms||Sandeep Rai
July 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man held for making fake social media accounts of woman||Ahmedabad: Based on an application made to the cyber cell of city police by a 22-year-old woman on January 23, investigators filed a complaint against a 35-year-old resident of Nobelnagar, Raju Luhar, for creating fake Facebook and Instagram profiles of her using her pictures.According to investigators, the accused also made misrepresentations with captions such as “My jaan and my wife” on the two social media platforms. “We have sent the accused for a pre-arrest Covid test,” said deputy commissioner of police, cyber cell, Rajdeepsinh Jhala.According to the complaint, on January 9, when her brother received a friend request from an unknown ID which had her image as the profile picture.“She later learned that there was also another Instagram account using pictures of her. She then first submitted an application of complaint on January 23,” said a cyber-cell official.“We obtained the IP address of the device using which the IDs had been created and identified Luhar,” said inspector C U Parewa.Parewa said the accused confessed to them that he came into contact with the woman when he was working for a security company. “She rebuffed him whenever he called her and asked her to meet him, and for the last four months had stopped talking to him over the phone. This angered him and he thought of maligning her by making fake social media profiles of her, Parewa added.He they lodged an offence based on her application under the Information Technology Act against Luhar on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-held-for-making-fake-social-media-accounts-of-woman/articleshow/77159076.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Accused granted interim bail due to Covid-19 not entitled to default bail: HC||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court has held that once an accused has been granted interim bail on instructions from Supreme Court (SC) to prevent spread of infection in jails due to Covid-19 pandemic,the same accused is not entitled to default bail under section 167 (2) of CrPC subsequently. “In the instant case after being arrested on March 19, the petitioner on account of outbreak of Covid-19 was granted interim bail on March 3, which stood extended from time to time and he is still on bail, now required to surrender in jail on September 4. The petitioner remaining behind bars for a period of less than two weeks till date, cannot cry foul and ask for bail in terms of section 167(2) CrPc. The petitioner just wants to have dual benefit enjoying interim bail, at the same time asking for concession of regular bail. He is certainly not entitled to such concession,” the HC has held. Justice H S Madaan passed these orders while dismissing a petition filed by Subhash Chander, a resident of Karnal. He was booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act at Nissing police station in Karnal district on March 18 and arrested on March 19. However, on account of Covid-19 pandemic, the SC issued guidelines directing the states to release some prisoners to decongest the jails. The petitioner also benefited from the policy and was released on interim bail for a period of 45 days. Such period was further extended in view of the pandemic and petitioner was required to surrender at district jail on September 4. The petitioner, however, filed a petition before a Karnal court submitting that the investigating agency had to file a final police report within 60 days of his arrest, but as it did not, he was entitled to be released on bail. His bail plea was dismissed by the lower court judge observing that the accused remained in custody for 13 days only. “It appears that same yardstick also applied in favour of investigating agency which was also prevented from expediting the investigation process due to the outbreak of Covid-19. Although the prescribed period of 60 days to file a final report ended on May 18 and police filed such a final report on June 25, but the investigating agency had still 47 days more to conclude investigation and final report,” observed the lower court judge, while dismissing his bail plea. Aggrieved from these orders, the accused had approached the HC, which has also dismissed his plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/accused-granted-interim-bail-due-to-covid-19-not-entitled-to-default-bail-hc/articleshow/77160102.cms||Ajay Sura
July 25, 2020||Business||Clashed with then-FM on insolvency norms: Urjit Patel||MUMBAI: Former Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Urjit Patel has said that differences with the then finance minister began with the government’s decision to softpedal the approach toward insolvency cases. While Patel has not mentioned any names in his new book, the mid-2018 period that he refers to is the time when Piyush Goyal held temporary charge of the Union finance ministry between May and August 2018. “In mid-2018, instead of buttressing and future-proofing the gains so far, an atmosphere to go easy on the pe dal ensued…Until then, for the most part, the finance minister and I were on the same page with frequent conversation on enhancing the landmark legislation’s operational efficiency,” writes Patel in his book. In May 2018, Arun Jaitley who as finance minister spearheaded the insolvency law was recuperating from an ailment and Goyal, then power minister, was given additional charge. In media interactions in 2018 Goyal had called for the circular’s dilution stating that “loans cannot be arithmetically classified as NPA after 90 days”. Patel, who resigned eight months before the end of his term, faced the rare threat of the government invoking a never-used provision to issue a directive to RBI. During his stint on Mint Street there was a breakdown of communication with the finance ministry even after Jaitley returned to office. There is, however, no reference to the relationship between the RBI and its board or the finance ministry in Patel’s book. ‘Overdraft — saving the Indian saver’ is not a tell-all book and demonetisation, which was cleared by the RBI’s board under Patel’s watch, does not find a mention anywhere. Patel, whose clean-up of bank books resulted in the unearthing of over Rs 10 lakh crore of bad loans, has called for continued vigilance pointing out that “restructured standard assets” are an oxymoron. In his book, the RBI’s 24th governor has identified the financial sector’s problem as the preponderance of government in ownership, resource mobilization and directed lending. He has warned against reducing the “length of arm” between the government and public sector banks as this would greatly increase the government’s debt burden. Describing the government initiated SBI-LIC fund to bail out stressed real estate projects as a scheme in the “smoke and mirrors” genre, Patel expresses worry that the Centre’s quick-disbursing Mudra credit scheme has been more akin to transfers. Patel minces no words while cautioning against the flexible approach taken by the government (in his words “extend and pretend”) to address chronic problems. He describes the past approach of getting PSU banks to subscribe in each other’s tier-II bonds as akin to “rearranging the deck chairs on the Titanic”. He is critical of LIC’s purchase of IDBI Bank (announced in August 2018).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/clashed-with-then-fm-on-insolvency-norms-urjit-patel/articleshow/77160974.cms||Mayur Shetty
July 25, 2020||Dehradun||Pothole-riddled roads get worse during monsoon, lead to disease, accidents||Dehradun: Roads in several localities of Dehradun are in a state of disrepair. These stretches pose a greater risk in monsoon, when crater-size potholes fill up with stagnant water, breeding disease-causing mosquitoes and leading to accidents. A stretch of GMS Road, behind Niranjanpur vegetable market, was paved just a few months ago but got eroded in the very first rains of the season. Asif Khan, who works at a salon on the road, said, “I see motorists tumble due to the potholes on the street almost every day. The road has been in a poor condition for a long time. The rains have worsened the condition. Now the water collected in potholes poses the risk of dengue and malaria.” Ram Ji, another resident, said, “The risk of getting injured increases in the dark, as the street lights here don’t work.” Shraddha Sethi, ward councillor, Niranjapur, said that a tiled road is in the works. “The tender for the construction of a tiled road has been made and work on it will start soon,” Sethi said. Residents of Rochipura are also plagued by potholes. Sarita Diman, a local resident, said, “A temporary repair work was started in some stretches, but was abandoned midway. Now construction material lies unattended on the roadside, which is dangerous for four wheelers and children on bicycles.” At Sewlakalan Majra, an entire stretch of road is covered in muck. Ajay Pal Negi, a resident, said “The deplorable condition of the road might cause a major accident someday. The potholes have become breeding grounds for mosquitos, putting local residents at risk. Authorities concerned should pay heed to the inconvenience the stretch is causing us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pothole-riddled-roads-get-worse-during-monsoon-lead-to-disease-accidents/articleshow/77155574.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Bareilly||SP MP Azam Khan, son brought to Moradabad court for hearing||Strap: Court Sends Them Back To Sitapur JailMoradabad: Samajwadi Party MP Azam Khan and his MLA son Abdullah Azam were on Friday brought here from Sitapur jail and produced before a court in connection with a non-bailable warrant issued against them in 2008. Giving details about the 12 years old case, the former UP minister’s counsel Shahnawaz Sibtain said, “An FIR was registered against Azam Khan and Abdullah Azam at Moradabad’s Chajlet police station in 2008. They were booked for rioting and using criminal force to deter public servant from discharging duty after they held a protest outside a police station. A charge-sheet was filed in the case against eight persons.”“Later, the court had issued the non-bailable warrants against Azam and Abdullah after they failed to appear before it,” he added.Their non-appearance led to another FIR against them, this time under section 174-A of IPC (Non-appearance in response to a proclamation under section 82 of Act 2 of 1974 ) at Chajelt police station . The court has fixed July 24 for the next hearing into the matter.Now, after their appearance, the additional district and sessions court fixed the next date for August 6 and sent them back to Sitapur jail.ReplyReply allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sp-mp-azam-khan-son-brought-to-moradabad-court-for-hearing/articleshow/77155572.cms||Nazar Abbas
July 25, 2020||Mumbai||CNG rate hiked by rupee in Mumbai region||Mumbai: CNG price will be hiked by a rupee in Mumbai metropolitan region from Saturday, which will impact public transport and those plying private vehicles on CNG. Taximen’s union, which will protest, has demanded a hike in minimum fare from Rs22 to Rs25. Auto unions have also demanded a hike from Rs18 to Rs20 for minimum fare. There has been no fare hike for over three years. CNG price in Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai will increase from Rs47.95 a kg to Rs48.95 a kg at pumps. The hike came into effect after a drop few months back. During lockdown in April, the price was reduced by Rs2 a kg. A Mahanagar Gas Limited official said, “To partially recover fixed costs in the face of lower sales volumes due to Covid-19 and higher gas cost, we are increasing CNG rate by a rupee in MMR. Even after the revision, CNG offers attractive savings of about 60% and 39%, compared to petrol and diesel respectively at current price levels in Mumbai.” Public transport in Mumbai, including autos, taxis, BEST buses and some aggregator cabs depend on CNG. More than three lakh private cars run on the green fuel in Mumbai region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cng-rate-hiked-by-rupee-in-mumbai-region/articleshow/77158706.cms||Somit Sen
July 25, 2020||Dehradun||Weekend lockdown to continue in 4 dists||Dehradun: The weekend lockdown imposed in Dehradun, Udham Singh Nagar, Haridwar and Nainital to curb the spread of novel coronavirus will continue till next orders, according to the latest state government order. As per the guidelines, only the shops selling essential commodities and medical stores would be allowed to remain open for limited hours on Saturday and Sunday. The state government has permitted shops related to emergency services, dairy, hotels, liquor and medical stores to remain open during the weekend. Besides construction activities, movement of goods on national highways and state highways are also permitted during the weekend. At present, there are a total of 173 containment zones in Uttarakhand. Among these, 139 are in Haridwar, followed by 11 in Dehradun, 20 in Udham Singh Nagar, and 3 in Uttarkashi district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/weekend-lockdown-to-continue-in-4-dists/articleshow/77155563.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab announces relaxations for industry to boost investment||Chandigarh: The Punjab government has announced some relaxations for the industry, including extension of validity of statutory clearances without inspection. The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB), which finalised the relaxations, has issued detailed guidelines on chief minister Amarinder Singh’s direction at a meeting. The move is aimed at easing the process of obtaining statutory clearances in these difficult circumstances19, said a spokesperson. The relaxations will help instil confidence among investors and encourage them to invest in the state during the current pandemic in a hassle-free manner. According to PPCB chairman S S Marwaha, the board has extended the validity of consent to operate and any other mandatory regulatory clearances up to June 30. The validity of the said clearances has also been further extended up to March 31, 2021, with certain stipulations on submission of application without conduct of any inspection by the board. To ensure participatory regulatory compliance of the environmental regulations, industries which were operating without the consent of board have been given time till December 31, 2020, to apply for clearances under the Voluntary Disclosure Scheme, he said. They can do so with exemption to deposit the consent fee prior to November 1, 2018, and payment of one-time notional fee of Rs 5,000, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-announces-relaxations-for-industry-to-boost-investment/articleshow/77160110.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||Three IPS officers promoted to rank of DGP||Ahmedabad: The government of Gujarat, ahead of assembly byelections, promoted three IPS officers of the 1986 batch from the rank of additional director general of police (ADGP) to the rank of director general of police (DGP) on Friday. The officers promoted are Keshav Kumar, who was special director of the anti-corruption Bureau (ACB), and has now been appointed to the cadre post of director, ACB. Kumar is the only officer who was empanelled as DGP at the Centre before his promotion to the rank of DGP in the state. Vinodkumar Mall, who was holding the post of ADGP (police reforms) in Gandhinagar was also promoted to DGP and his post has been upgraded. Sanjay Srivastav, ADGP CID (crime and railways) was promoted and his post was upgraded to DGP CID (crime and railways). He will continue to hold additional charge of ADGP (intelligence) in Gandhinagar and ADGP (technical services and state crime records bureau). There are three DGP cadre posts and equal number of ex-cadre posts in Gujarat Police, and with these promotions all these posts have been filled. There is a buzz in police circles that 13 more IPS officers are awaiting promotion from the rank of senior superintendent of police (SSP) to deputy inspector general of police (DIG). Sources in the government said these 13 promotions with some transfers are expected later this week, as Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha is slated to retire on July 31. There is also talk in police galleries that the commissioner of police of Ahmedabad, Ashish Bhatia, could be the next state police chief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-ips-officers-promoted-to-rank-of-dgp/articleshow/77159108.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Ahmedabad||28,000 students opt for GTU online exam||AHMEDABAD: After giving three options to students for taking the summer 2020 college exams, the Gujarat Technological University (GTU) received responses from 28,000 students who have opted for online MCQ based exams. The varsity has also extended the deadline for choosing the exam option to July 25 for students in final-semester undergraduate, postgraduate, and diploma courses. Earlier the deadline was July 23. Students who opt for the online MCQ exams will have to first compulsorily take a trial test to be held on July 28. Candidates can take the online MCQ exams using laptops, desktops, tablets, or cellphones. A consistent internet speed of 512 kbps is recommended. If students do not have that facility, institutes will have to provide connectivity with the necessary speed. Web-cams are required for students taking the exams using laptops or desktops. Front-facing cameras are needed for those taking the exams using mobile phones or tablets. Other exam options include the pen-and-paper exams to be held from August 17 and special exams to be conducted in September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/28k-students-opt-for-gtu-online-exam/articleshow/77159138.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Pune||85-year-old performs on streets to help family in Pune||By-Anjali.Jhangiani@timesgroup.comPUNE: Shanta Pawar spent much of the 1970s as a background dancer in Bollywood. Whenever filmmakers would require an ‘extra’ to walk on a tight rope or perform other stunts, they’d turn to Pawar. Today, the 85-year-old has no option but to perform on the streets of Pune all by herself to earn some money and help her family survive. “I have performed in quite a few films, including with Hema Malini in Seeta Aur Geeta and with Sridevi. For generations, my family has performed ‘dombari khel’ (an acrobatic act). I learnt it from my parents when I was a little girl and I taught it to my children and grandchildren too,” she said. Her acquaintances fondly call her Aai. She was born and brought up in Pune. “I live in Hadapsar with my family — my daughter, her children, my son and his children. My husband passed away many years ago. My in-laws lived in Shenoli but I moved back to Pune. Since then, it became my responsibility to take care of my family. We perform dombari khel together. We would go to Salunkhe Vihar, Fatimanagar and some parts of Kondhwa by foot to put up a show on the road and earn some money,” she said. Lately, due to the pandemic, she does not allow her grandchildren to perform with her but puts on a solo show and does stunts with sticks. “I have 12 grandchildren. All of them are in school. My son is a member of a brass band but he is out of work due to the lockdown. There are many mouths to feed, so I decided that I will not sit at home and do nothing. My grandchildren warned me not to go out because of guidelines by the governments for senior citizens but I would rather die trying to earn some money so that my family does not starve,” she said. Clad in a nine-yard sari, Pawar performs all day to bring home Rs100-200, which is hardly enough to feed her family. “Before the lockdown, when the family would perform together, we would earn about Rs500, per day but now there are hardly any people on the road. Recently, a lady shot a video of me performing with my sticks and put it up on the Internet. Since then, many people have been calling me and coming to my house to meet me. My grandchildren tell me that some actors also want to meet me. I have lived my life. I just want to earn enough money to provide for my family and make sure they can survive after I am gone,” she said. Videos of Pawar performing on Salunkhe Vihar Road have gone viral on social media. Pune police commissioner K Venkatesham also tweeted the video appreciating her skill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/85-yr-old-performs-on-streets-to-help-family/articleshow/77159122.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Pune||Micro-containment plan back in rural belt again||Pune: The district administration has returned to its earlier strategy of creating micro-containment zones in villages to contain the spread of Covid-19. The administration had two weeks ago decided to declare an entire village a containment zone if five or more Covid-19 patients were found in its limits. “The strategy to make an entire village a containment zone has not worked effectively in some villages of the district. We have now decided to create micro-containment zones in the villages,” district collector Naval Kishore Ram said on Friday. “The administration will consider declaring an entire village as a containment zone on the basis of the number of the micro-containment zones,” he said. On Thursday, the local administration issued orders extending the total lockdown in Haveli and Khed till July 31 and July 28, respectively. Haveli and Khed are the two tehsils worst affected by the pandemic in Pune district. Haveli sub-divisional officer Sachin Baravkar told TOI: “We will need at least two days to identify the micro-containment zones in the affected villages. The number of micro-containment zones will be more in big gram panchayats such as Wagholi, Loni Kalbhor, Manjari and Dehu.” Micro-containment zones will be created in Khed too. “We will create the micro-containment zones at three municipal councils and 18 villages,” said sub-divisional officer Sunil Gade , who is the acting incident commander of Khed. Traders in Haveli and Khed said “lack of clarity” in the administrative orders created confusion among them. “Two days ago, the collector had said there would not be a lockdown. On Thursday, the tehsil administration announced a lockdown,” said a manager of a sports shop in Wagholi. The situation was similar in Chakan, Alandi and Rajgurunanagar. “Many shops remained closed till Friday afternoon,” said a senior official from the Khed tehsil administration. Zilla parshad CEO Ayush Prasad said, “Economic activities are returning to normalcy. Lockdown extension in the rural areas is not the option now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/micro-containment-plan-back-in-rural-belt-again/articleshow/77159099.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Chandigarh||KU clears Rs 106 cr deficit budget||Kurukshetra: Executive council of the Kurukshetra University (KU) passed the annual budget for the 2020-21 financial year on Friday. The council held its meeting under the chairmanship of working vice-chancellor Nita Khanna to pass the annual budget of Rs 460 crore, with a deficit of about Rs 106.42 crore. KUs’ annual report 2019 and audit report were also passed in the meeting on Friday. KU’s director of public relations Professor Brajesh Sawhney said 42 issues were discussed in the meeting and many important decisions taken. The council discussed Rs 90 crore sanction for about 100 vacant sanctioned posts at KU to mitigate the impact of deficit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ku-clears-rs-106-cr-deficit-budget/articleshow/77160116.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Lucknow||UP health minister tests +ve, quarantined at residence||LUCKNOW: State health minister JP Singh tested positive for the novel coronavirus infection on Friday, taking the number of ministers and minister-rank politicians to have diagnosed with the disease to seven since the Covid-19 outbreak. Chief medical superintendent (CMS) SPM Civil Hospital Dr RK Porwal said a team of doctors was sent to the minister’s residence on Thursday night to collect his swab samples after he developed sore throat. “The test done through TruNat machine found him Covid-19 positive,” he added. “Since the minister was asymptomatic, he has been advised to isolate himself at home. He will be shifted to a hospital if symptoms surface,” Dr Porwal added. Meanwhile, health officials said another swab sample of the minister has been taken and sent for RT-PCR confirmatory test for Covid-19. As per the UP government’s new policy, asymptomatic patients can now quarantine themselves at home subject to some conditions. Singh and his family had got themselves tested in March after the minister attended a party where Bollywood singer Kanika Kapoor, who was diagnosed with the disease, was also present. The report of the minister and family had then come negative. Five ministers and one minister-rank politician have tested Covid-19 positive so far. Five of them were tested in Lucknow while one in Saharanpur. Overall, 15 politicians including leader of Opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary and four legislators have been diagnosed with Covid-19. Two politicians – former deputy mayor of Lucknow Abhay Seth and former minister Ghura Ram – have succumbed to the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-health-min-tests-ve-quarantined-at-residence/articleshow/77160124.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
July 25, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Girl, 14, forced to marry in-law after rape, delivers baby||TRICHY: A 14-year-old girl, who was forced to marry her brother-in-law after he sexually abused her, delivered a baby girl at the government hospital in Mayiladuthurai. The all women police station (AWPS), Mayiladuthurai on Thursday arrested the 24-year-old man and booked the girl’s 48-year-old mother for abetment to the crime. The man is the husband of one of the girl’s elder sisters. The victim, a Class VIII dropout, was residing with her mother, a sanitary worker, in a makeshift arrangement under an overhead water tank in Varadhappattu village. The incident came to light after an anonymous caller informed ChildLine helpline 1098 a week ago about the girl’s pregnancy. A team led by district child protection officer (DCPO), Nagapattinam, visited the village, where they were told that the girl has been admitted to the government hospital in Mayiladuthurai. “The girl delivered a female baby on July 19. Our team met the girl and the mother and they revealed what had happened,” N DCPO Sivakumar told TOI. He said that the man sexually assaulted the girl. When her mother came to know about it, she married her off to him unmindful of the consequences. “The woman was also a party to the crime,” he said. Based on a complaint from DCPO, police booked a case under section 5 (l) (penetrative sexual assault) read with 6 (punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault), 17 (abetment of the offence against child) under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and Section 9 (punishment for male adult marrying minor girl) of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act. Sivakumar said the girl and the baby will be shifted to a government home for rehabilitation. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tamil-nadu-girl-14-forced-to-marry-in-law-after-rape-delivers-baby/articleshow/77160105.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Karnal saw 32 rapes, 20 murders in H1 2020, despite lockdown||Karnal: Even as people remained confined to their homes during the two-and-half months of lockdown, Karnal district witnessed 20 murders and 32 rapes in the first-half of the current year, according to an official data. The data obtained from the Karnal superintendent of police (SP) office suggests that on an average, five women were raped and three persons murdered every month during the January-June period. The police, however, claimed that the incidents of rape and murder went down in the first six months of this year compared to the corresponding period last year, when 37 murders and 39 rapes were reported in the district. The data shows that only four rape cases were reported during the lockdown period (three in April and one in May), while under normal situation, four rape cases were registered in January, eight in February, 10 in March and six in June. However, lockdown or otherwise, there was no letup in incidents of theft in the district, as 409 cases were registered till June, out of which 76 took place in this month alone when Unlock-1 was announced. Besides, two cases of gang-rape, seven of loot, two of dacoity and 101 cases over other crimes under sections 324, 325 of the IPC were also registered till mid-2020. Karnal SP Surender Singh Bhoria said, “The Karnal police is committed to ensuring the safety and security of people and checking crime in the district. This year, the crime rate has decreased as compared to the corresponding period a year ago. It is mandatory to register FIR in crimes against women and as on today, no complaints are pending in which FIRs were not registered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/karnal-saw-32-rapes-20-murders-in-h1-2020-despite-lockdown/articleshow/77160120.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education proposes reduction of syllabus in phased manner||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) has proposed phase-wise slash in syllabus depending on the resumption of classes. The officials say that if the classes resume in August, the slash will by 20% and if it resumes in September, the course will be down by 30%. A team of experts are done with the revised syllabus till September and have expected the slash by 50% if the classes don’t start by December. D P Jaroli, chairman of RBSE, says that a team of experts has been working on to make the syllabus accommodative on the basis of the re-opening of classes month-wise. “The team comprising of academicians from Rajasthan University and other institutes have come up with a priority model in syllabus in all classes. The final call on the same will be taken soon by the education department,” said Jaroli. For board Classes (X and XII), the RBSE has proposed that they will conduct the examinations in April or May. “The board examinations can be delayed by two months if the situation continues to remain the same for two to three months. This year, we held board examinations in February and remaining examinations in June. I have the human resource and logistics to deliver board results in less than a month time,” said Jaroli. He also informed that they are also considering doing away with no school bags day every Saturday. This will give them additional days to complete the course and also exploring how to add more days like no winter break to cover the loss. One of the expert panellists of the syllabus committee says that they cannot see re-opening of schools in the next three three to four months and are constantly evaluating the reduction in the syllabus. “Everything at the moment is based on the speculation. If the session doesn’t begin in the next two months then it will be difficult to meet the learning outcomes set for every class,” said an expert. Sources said that state is following the central government guidelines on schools or educational institutes. The educational institutes are closed till July 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rbse-proposes-reduction-of-syllabus-in-phased-manner/articleshow/77159160.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Trichy||Med college gets RT-PCR machine from NRCB||Trichy: Indian council for agriculture research (ICAR)- National research centre for banana (NRCB), Trichy has donated a real time-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) machine for conducting Covid-19 testing to the department of microbiology in KAP Viswanatham government medical college (KAPVGMC). Centre director Dr S Uma handed over the machine to Dr Vanathi of the microbiology department on Friday afternoon. NRCB said the advanced machine had the capacity to test 90 samples at a time. It may be pointed out that the microbiology laboratory at KAPVGMC attached to MGMGH in Trichy has been functioning with a capacity to testing 1,200 samples a day. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/med-college-gets-rt-pcr-machine-from-nrcb/articleshow/77160114.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Mysuru||Cycling 16km daily, girl scores 95% in II PU||Shivamogga: Here’s an example of how a government scheme can help students in the long run. Vidya S G, student of Govt PU College in Hosanagar taluk of the district, has made the most of being a beneficiary of the free cycle scheme launched by the education department — she pedalled 16km (8km from home to the college and another 8km to return home) — and stood third in the district by scoring 571 marks out of 600 (95.16%) in arts stream. Having scored 90 in English, 97 in Kannada language, 98 each in history and economics, 97 in sociology and 91 in political science, Vidya said she will either become a village accountant or pursue higher education in Kannada. The daughter of Ganesh-Puttamma couple from Majare Sannamane in Hattalli village of Tirthahalli taluk said she got the cycle when she was in Class VIII. “I used to take one hour each to commute to college and return home given the terrain en route,” Vidya said. Sharing her riding experience, Vidya said she is used riding long distances, and that she had cycled to her high school too. College principal Uday Kumar said they are proud about Vidya’s achievement. “We were expecting good marks from the intelligent and hard-working girl. She cycled between home and college everyday, covering 16km daily, and it paid off. Our faculty and betterment committee members have all strived to ensure that all our students excel in the exam,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cycling-16km-daily-girl-scores-95-in-ii-pu/articleshow/77152783.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Aurangabad||Probe against Nanded cops ends||Aurangabad: A high level probe, carried out by Aurangabad range’s special inspector general of police Ravinder Kumar Singal, into the complaint lodged by BJP MLA Rajesh Pawar against Nanded police concluded on Friday. The report has been submitted to the office of director general of police. When contacted, Singal confirmed the development, but refused to elaborate further. Earlier this month, Pawar had sent a letter to the state police chief alleging Nanded police’s connivance with all the illicit businesses, including bootlegging, illegal sand lifting, gambling, trading of grains meant for PDS, among others. He also added that due to frequent complaints apart from raising the issue during assembly session this year, several police officers and those involved in illicit businesses are upset with him and have been issuing threats to him and his wife, who is a zilla parisahd member. When contacted, Pawar told TOI, “To clean my constituency of all the illicit businesses, I have been raising the issue with authorities across hierarchy, apart from making it a public movement. This did not go down well with Nanded police due to which I am being targeted.” He also claimed to have an call recording between a senior police officer and another man talking about plans to frame him under false charges. Taking cognizance of the complaint, the DGP office ordered Singal to carry out a probe. Following this statements of all the senior police officers, including Nanded superintendent of police Vijaykumar Magar were recorded and a detailed inquiry report has been submitted to the DGP office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/probe-against-nanded-cops-ends/articleshow/77155642.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 25, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education proposes reduction of syllabus in phased manner||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) has proposed phase-wise slash in syllabus depending on the resumption of classes. The officials say that if the classes resume in August, the slash will by 20% and if it resumes in September, the course will be down by 30%. A team of experts are done with the revised syllabus till September and have expected the slash by 50% if the classes don’t start by December. D P Jaroli, chairman of RBSE, says that a team of experts has been working on to make the syllabus accommodative on the basis of the re-opening of classes month-wise. “The team comprising of academicians from Rajasthan University and other institutes have come up with a priority model in syllabus in all classes. The final call on the same will be taken soon by the education department,” said Jaroli. For board Classes (X and XII), the RBSE has proposed that they will conduct the examinations in April or May. “The board examinations can be delayed by two months if the situation continues to remain the same for two to three months. This year, we held board examinations in February and remaining examinations in June. I have the human resource and logistics to deliver board results in less than a month time,” said Jaroli. He also informed that they are also considering doing away with no school bags day every Saturday. This will give them additional days to complete the course and also exploring how to add more days like no winter break to cover the loss. One of the expert panellists of the syllabus committee says that they cannot see re-opening of schools in the next three three to four months and are constantly evaluating the reduction in the syllabus. “Everything at the moment is based on the speculation. If the session doesn’t begin in the next two months then it will be difficult to meet the learning outcomes set for every class,” said an expert. Sources said that state is following the central government guidelines on schools or educational institutes. The educational institutes are closed till July 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/rbse-proposes-reduction-of-syllabus-in-phased-manner/articleshow/77163437.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education proposes reduction of syllabus in phased manner||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) has proposed phase-wise slash in syllabus depending on the resumption of classes. The officials say that if the classes resume in August, the slash will by 20% and if it resumes in September, the course will be down by 30%. A team of experts are done with the revised syllabus till September and have expected the slash by 50% if the classes don’t start by December. D P Jaroli, chairman of RBSE, says that a team of experts has been working on to make the syllabus accommodative on the basis of the re-opening of classes month-wise. “The team comprising of academicians from Rajasthan University and other institutes have come up with a priority model in syllabus in all classes. The final call on the same will be taken soon by the education department,” said Jaroli. For board Classes (X and XII), the RBSE has proposed that they will conduct the examinations in April or May. “The board examinations can be delayed by two months if the situation continues to remain the same for two to three months. This year, we held board examinations in February and remaining examinations in June. I have the human resource and logistics to deliver board results in less than a month time,” said Jaroli. He also informed that they are also considering doing away with no school bags day every Saturday. This will give them additional days to complete the course and also exploring how to add more days like no winter break to cover the loss. One of the expert panellists of the syllabus committee says that they cannot see re-opening of schools in the next three three to four months and are constantly evaluating the reduction in the syllabus. “Everything at the moment is based on the speculation. If the session doesn’t begin in the next two months then it will be difficult to meet the learning outcomes set for every class,” said an expert. Sources said that state is following the central government guidelines on schools or educational institutes. The educational institutes are closed till July 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/rbse-proposes-reduction-of-syllabus-in-phased-manner/articleshow/77163438.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education proposes reduction of syllabus in phased manner||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) has proposed phase-wise slash in syllabus depending on the resumption of classes. The officials say that if the classes resume in August, the slash will by 20% and if it resumes in September, the course will be down by 30%. A team of experts are done with the revised syllabus till September and have expected the slash by 50% if the classes don’t start by December. D P Jaroli, chairman of RBSE, says that a team of experts has been working on to make the syllabus accommodative on the basis of the re-opening of classes month-wise. “The team comprising of academicians from Rajasthan University and other institutes have come up with a priority model in syllabus in all classes. The final call on the same will be taken soon by the education department,” said Jaroli. For board Classes (X and XII), the RBSE has proposed that they will conduct the examinations in April or May. “The board examinations can be delayed by two months if the situation continues to remain the same for two to three months. This year, we held board examinations in February and remaining examinations in June. I have the human resource and logistics to deliver board results in less than a month time,” said Jaroli. He also informed that they are also considering doing away with no school bags day every Saturday. This will give them additional days to complete the course and also exploring how to add more days like no winter break to cover the loss. One of the expert panellists of the syllabus committee says that they cannot see re-opening of schools in the next three three to four months and are constantly evaluating the reduction in the syllabus. “Everything at the moment is based on the speculation. If the session doesn’t begin in the next two months then it will be difficult to meet the learning outcomes set for every class,” said an expert. Sources said that state is following the central government guidelines on schools or educational institutes. The educational institutes are closed till July 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/rbse-proposes-reduction-of-syllabus-in-phased-manner/articleshow/77163439.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Mangaluru||Mother carries her daughter to PU success||MANGALURU: Physical deformity and poverty did not stop Bhagyashree, whose mother carried her daily to college, from securing 467 marks in the commerce stream in the II PU examination, whose results were announced on Tuesday. Bhagyashree is a resident of Kooriyala, Bantwal. She is the daughter of Keshava Kulal and Rajeevi. Keshav, is differently abled and ekes out a livelihood by running a small shop adjacent to his house. Bhagyashree lost balance in both her legs since birth, but this did not deter her from studying. Despite her physical deformity, she secured 470 marks in the SSLC exam and joined SVS PU College. However, it was the dedication of her mother, who made sure that her daughter attended college and achieved her goal. Since Bhagyashree could not walk, Rajeevi carried her to college every day, and Bhagyashree used to attend classes by sitting on a wheelchair. “This achievement was only possible due to the help of my mother, who is a pillar of strength and support for me. I want to pursue BCom,” she said. Her elder sister is also pursuing BCom.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mother-carries-her-daughter-to-pu-success/articleshow/77155991.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Mangaluru||Auto driver helps family that returned from Mumbai||MANGALURU: An autorickshaw driver has proved that humanity continues to exist during troubled times. For Purandara Rai, 52, a driver working in Mumbai for the past 27 years, it is Jabeer Kuppepadav, an autorickshaw driver, who turned out to be a guardian angel. Purandara’s son Deependra Rai, 19, said, “My father was diagnosed with kidney problems and was admitted to a private hospital in Mumbai on March 16. We spent about Rs 1.5 lakh on his treatment, but there was no improvement. We then shifted him to another private hospital, and he was discharged after 15 days. Due to the spread of Covid-19 and high medical expenses in Mumbai, we decided to travel back to Kabaka, our native place. Only when we reached here, did we realise that none of our relatives were willing to welcome us,” he said. Jabeer, 32, said that he spotted Rai, his wife and two children at the Mangaluru Junction railway station at 2.30 am on June 21. “After interacting with a fellow autorickshaw driver, they stayed at the station. They were looking for quarantine facilities. After dropping a passenger, I was resting in my autorickshaw. The family came up to me around 8 am. Purandara looked sick. After a brief interaction, I decided to take them to Bantwal. I told my younger brother to look after the autorickshaw, and dropped them in a car to Bantwal.” At the Bantwal police station, the family was directed to a government institutional quarantine facility, and after completion of the quarantine period, they were left with nowhere to go. In the meantime, Purandara was taken to Wenlock Hospital. After testing negative for the novel coronavirus, he was referred to private hospitals for treatment, but the family had no money for his treatment, and he was brought back to the Bantwal taluk hospital. He was discharged on Thursday, but requires dialysis, said Deependra. “Jabeer has helped us in every possible way. After completing our quarantine, he gave us a house to stay in. This house is located right next to his house in Kuppepadav, and he has arranged everything for us,” he said. Meanwhile, Jabeer has reached out to his friends for medical assistance. “I’m still trying to arrange for funds to provide medical assistance to Purandara. Several officials have helped us. On the family’s insistence, I have arranged a rented house for them to stay at Mura, near Kabaka,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/auto-driver-helps-family-that-returned-from-mumbai/articleshow/77153794.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
July 25, 2020||Mangaluru||Woken at 3am, ASHA worker drives pregnant woman to hospital in auto||UDUPI: At 3.15am on Thursday, 53-year-old Rajeevi Nayak, an ASHA worker and autodriver, received a frantic call from a pregnant woman, seeking the former’s help to reach the hospital. Although Rajeevi was sound asleep after a tiring day’s work discharging her responsibilities as a Covid-19 warrior, the thought of refusing her caller did not so much as cross her mind. Rajeevi was familiar with her caller, Srilatha, having met her while carrying out her responsibilities as an ASHA worker. “During my interactions with pregnant women, I tell them to contact me at any time of the day if they are experiencing labour pain. Srilatha called me around 3am in the morning, and informed me that her pain was severe. Although I told her I could arrange an ambulance to take her to a nearby hospital, she assured she could travel by auto. I reached her home without wasting any time, and we rushed her to the Koosamma Shambu Shetty Memorial Haji Abdullah Mother and Child Hospital, which is 20km from Srilatha’s home. Around 12pm on Thursday, she gave birth to a baby girl. The mother and daughter are doing well,” Rajeevi told TOI. Rajeevi has been an autodriver for the past two decades, during which time many a pregnant woman has received a free ride in her vehicle. What is more, she is also a booth level officer who participates, when her hectic schedule lets up, in the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/woken-at-3am-asha-worker-drives-pregnant-woman-to-hospital-in-auto/articleshow/77155385.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Salem||With record 6,785 fresh Covid-19 cases, Tamil Nadu’s tally nears 2 lakh-mark||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu recorded a new high of 6,785 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, which took its confirmed cases to within nudging distance of two lakh at 1,99,749. Active cases, though much lower at 53,132, have been increasing all week from 50,294 on Sunday. The toll rose to 3,320 with 88 deaths logged. With 1,299 cases, Chennai continued to be the hotspot, though its share of fresh cases fell to 19%. Out of 92,206 people who tested positive in Chennai, 13,743 are still under treatment in hospitals, Covid care centres and at home. Neighbouring Chengalpet, Kanchipuram and Tiruvallur together recorded 1,116 cases. In these three districts, which have so far reported 28,677 cases, 9,376 people are under treatment. An epidemiologist with the state government said the R-value or the effective reproduction number, which is the number of people one person can infect, is at 1.24 for Tamil Nadu as of July 13. “For Chennai, it is between 1.09 and 1.12. The daily cases in the city would have been below 1,000 if the R-value had reduced below 1,” the expert said and added that, at present, the case projections for the state were difficult to calculate as the number of daily cases, a critical input for the models to run, is not stable. The number of people tested increased to 63,182 compared to 60,375 on Thursday, 58,475 on Wednesday and 50,055 on Tuesday as the state has started pool testing. The hospital discharges have also increased to 6,504 taking the total number of people now treated and out of hospital at 1,43,297. The 10 districts in the south logged 2,061 fresh cases, with the most in Virudhunagar at 424. Virudhunagar, which had less than 300 cases exactly a month ago, now has 2,203 active cases. It is followed by Madurai, which has 2,661 active cases, including 326 added on Friday. Tuticorin recorded 313 new cases, taking its active cases to 2,354. The 16 districts in central and western region of Tamil Nadu together added 1,232 new cases --698 in Central and 534 in western TN -- taking the total active cases to 7,166. Trichy added 217 cases and Thanjavur 186. Coimbatore added 189 to take its active cases to 1,27. Salem reported 122 taking the number of people under treatment to 773.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/with-record-6785-fresh-cases-states-tally-nears-2l-mark/articleshow/77161069.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Coimbatore||With record 6,785 fresh Covid-19 cases, Tamil Nadu’s tally nears 2 lakh-mark||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu recorded a new high of 6,785 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, which took its confirmed cases to within nudging distance of two lakh at 1,99,749. Active cases, though much lower at 53,132, have been increasing all week from 50,294 on Sunday. The toll rose to 3,320 with 88 deaths logged. With 1,299 cases, Chennai continued to be the hotspot, though its share of fresh cases fell to 19%. Out of 92,206 people who tested positive in Chennai, 13,743 are still under treatment in hospitals, Covid care centres and at home. Neighbouring Chengalpet, Kanchipuram and Tiruvallur together recorded 1,116 cases. In these three districts, which have so far reported 28,677 cases, 9,376 people are under treatment. An epidemiologist with the state government said the R-value or the effective reproduction number, which is the number of people one person can infect, is at 1.24 for Tamil Nadu as of July 13. “For Chennai, it is between 1.09 and 1.12. The daily cases in the city would have been below 1,000 if the R-value had reduced below 1,” the expert said and added that, at present, the case projections for the state were difficult to calculate as the number of daily cases, a critical input for the models to run, is not stable. The number of people tested increased to 63,182 compared to 60,375 on Thursday, 58,475 on Wednesday and 50,055 on Tuesday as the state has started pool testing. The hospital discharges have also increased to 6,504 taking the total number of people now treated and out of hospital at 1,43,297. The 10 districts in the south logged 2,061 fresh cases, with the most in Virudhunagar at 424. Virudhunagar, which had less than 300 cases exactly a month ago, now has 2,203 active cases. It is followed by Madurai, which has 2,661 active cases, including 326 added on Friday. Tuticorin recorded 313 new cases, taking its active cases to 2,354. The 16 districts in central and western region of Tamil Nadu together added 1,232 new cases --698 in Central and 534 in western TN -- taking the total active cases to 7,166. Trichy added 217 cases and Thanjavur 186. Coimbatore added 189 to take its active cases to 1,27. Salem reported 122 taking the number of people under treatment to 773.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/with-record-6785-fresh-cases-states-tally-nears-2l-mark/articleshow/77161068.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Chennai||With record 6,785 fresh Covid-19 cases, Tamil Nadu’s tally nears 2 lakh-mark||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu recorded a new high of 6,785 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, which took its confirmed cases to within nudging distance of two lakh at 1,99,749. Active cases, though much lower at 53,132, have been increasing all week from 50,294 on Sunday. The toll rose to 3,320 with 88 deaths logged. With 1,299 cases, Chennai continued to be the hotspot, though its share of fresh cases fell to 19%. Out of 92,206 people who tested positive in Chennai, 13,743 are still under treatment in hospitals, Covid care centres and at home. Neighbouring Chengalpet, Kanchipuram and Tiruvallur together recorded 1,116 cases. In these three districts, which have so far reported 28,677 cases, 9,376 people are under treatment. An epidemiologist with the state government said the R-value or the effective reproduction number, which is the number of people one person can infect, is at 1.24 for Tamil Nadu as of July 13. “For Chennai, it is between 1.09 and 1.12. The daily cases in the city would have been below 1,000 if the R-value had reduced below 1,” the expert said and added that, at present, the case projections for the state were difficult to calculate as the number of daily cases, a critical input for the models to run, is not stable. The number of people tested increased to 63,182 compared to 60,375 on Thursday, 58,475 on Wednesday and 50,055 on Tuesday as the state has started pool testing. The hospital discharges have also increased to 6,504 taking the total number of people now treated and out of hospital at 1,43,297. The 10 districts in the south logged 2,061 fresh cases, with the most in Virudhunagar at 424. Virudhunagar, which had less than 300 cases exactly a month ago, now has 2,203 active cases. It is followed by Madurai, which has 2,661 active cases, including 326 added on Friday. Tuticorin recorded 313 new cases, taking its active cases to 2,354. The 16 districts in central and western region of Tamil Nadu together added 1,232 new cases --698 in Central and 534 in western TN -- taking the total active cases to 7,166. Trichy added 217 cases and Thanjavur 186. Coimbatore added 189 to take its active cases to 1,27. Salem reported 122 taking the number of people under treatment to 773.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/with-record-6785-fresh-cases-states-tally-nears-2l-mark/articleshow/77157386.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Trichy||Proprietor of unregistered ‘co-op society’ arrested for cheating||Trichy: A 33-year-old man, who floated an unregistered cooperative society in Trichy was arrested by the city crime branch (CCB) police on Thursday. The accused, S Muthu Santhanam of Thennur was arrested on charges of forging a document for the purpose of cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property. The action was taken following a complaint by the deputy registrar (full additional charge) of cooperative societies, Trichy circle K Chithra after a surprise inspection at the office of the Bharadha Visaya Cooperative Society Ltd at Thillai Nagar on July 23. During the inspection, documents with regard to fraudulent interviews for recruitment, pamphlets about attractive interest rates, documents for receipt of money obtained from customers, were recovered. Chithra in her complaint said the company had not obtained any prerequisite legal permission to use the term – society. It was also not registered with the joint director of cooperative societies, Trichy district or deputy director of cooperative societies, Trichy circle under Tamil Nadu Cooperative Societies Act 1983, Tamil Nadu cooperative societies Rules 1988 and multi-state cooperative.She said that the company indulged in the act with the ill-intention of deceiving people. The company’s motive came to light when it pasted posters about the inauguration of its branches at No 1 Toll Gate and Lalgudi and an advertisement for the recruitment of employees for various posts in the ‘cooperative society’. The company had also carried pictures of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami in its advertisements. Chithra said the company used the leaders’ pictures to tarnish their reputation. The company came up with this advertisement deliberately to misuse the ongoing real recruitment process that is taking place for the posts of salesmen in fair price shops and assistants in central cooperative bank, in its favour, Chithra said in the complaint. After his arrest, Santhanam was admitted to the government hospital in Srirangam pending Covid-19 test results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/proprietor-of-unregistered-co-op-society-arrested-for-cheating/articleshow/77160122.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Kochi||Finally, dalit students get laptop||IDUKKI: Finally, two sisters hailing from an SC family in Nedumkandam panchayat in Idukki got the laptop offered to them by the local body after a wait of two years. The gadget, offered for free by the panchayat for dalit students, reached Ardra Babu and Anagha Babu after they approached the high court against the inordinate delay in providing them the laptop. The HC had ordered the panchayat to provide the laptop within five weeks. However, the panchayat authorities treated the girls with indifference even after the HC issued an order in the girls’ favour. The issue came to the light through a Facebook post by Anagha. Later, Devikulam sub-collector personally intervened to get a laptop from Keltron. “Keltron had suspended the production of laptops after the lockdown. We collected three laptops from Keltron and handed them over to the panchayat,” said sub-collector S Premkrishnan. Nedumkandam panchayat development standing committee chairman Syamala Vishwanathan said that the laptop was handed over to Ardra and Anagha’s name was not included in the list. “We have directed the girl to submit an application for a laptop before the panchayat. We will include her name in the next round and give her one. As per law we can’t provide a laptop to her without including her name. We will seek the court’s directive to solve the issue,” she said. #||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/finally-dalit-students-get-laptop/articleshow/77155664.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Trichy||Trichy MGMGH vicinity risks turning into Covid hotspot||Trichy: Many people having fever including suspected Covid-19 cases from across Trichy district approach Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) on EVR Road every day, but safety measures are not enforced in the vicinity of the hospital. Situated in a residential locality, the hospital sees frontline workers and patients moving in and out frequently while shops outside witnesses significant crowd movement with no social distancing or face masks.EVR Road has recorded two positive cases in the past four days while MGMGH has reported around 11 positive cases this month, most of them frontline staff at the hospital. People, either positive cases waiting for admission or suspected cases to undergo Covid-19 test, throng the government hospital premises every day. With their vehicles parked outside, the attendees often purchase food or personal goods from the shops near the hospital. Officers Colony locality, which has its entrance located opposite to the MGMGH entrance, bears the brunt. Street vendors, including those selling fruits, facemasks and eatables, have mushroomed along the platforms of EVR road. Many in the floating crowd fail to wear face masks and don’t maintain social distancing. Commercial establishments including tea shops are often crowded and could potentially spread the infection to healthy people who come into contact with those coming out of the hospital. “People ignore the safety measures and maintain a close contact unknowingly with those coming out of MGMGH. Street vendors also make close contact with the visitors to the hospital near the tea shops,” P Vembu, a Woraiyur resident said. Since free food is being provided by good samaritans twice a day near the hospital campus, the crowd remains high, mostly destitute. Members of the public say corporation must enhance surveillance and conduct random testing in the MGMGH vicinity. Absence of police presence near the hospital entrance was also blamed as one of the reasons for overcrowding. Recently, a two-wheeler parked outside the hospital was stolen. “We will intensify the surveillance to make people adhere to safety norms,” corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-mgmgh-vicinity-risks-turning-into-covid-hotspot/articleshow/77160135.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 25, 2020||Trichy||Smart lamps to light up footpaths in Trichy||Trichy: Trichy Corporation has installed solar-powered smart lamps to light up smart pedestrian platforms on West Boulevard road near Main Guard gate on a pilot basis. The lights also have sensors which will adjust brightness based on pedestrian movement. Under the smart cities mission programme around Rockfort, the smart pedestrian project was initiated in May. The existing footpaths on West Boulevard road connecting Main guard gate with Singarathope were demolished to make way for smart platforms which will have three separate ducts for electricity and telephone cables and one duct for rainwater discharge. “On detecting the movement of pedestrians within a distance of 16ft the lamp will glow brightly. If there is no movement, the lights will automatically switch to dim mode,” an official with the corporation engineering department said. The cost of the solar-powered smart lamp is around Rs 16,000. The civic body is planning to cover the stretch from Main guard gate till the Old passport office with 100-150 smart lamps. “Tiles to cover the surface of the pedestrian tracks are almost ready. The top surface will soon have a combination of grey and black coloured tiles,” the official added. Trichy Corporation said that a portion of smart footpath will be completed in a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/smart-lamps-to-light-up-footpaths-in-trichy/articleshow/77160125.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 25, 2020||Bhubaneswar||New ADM appointed in Gajapati||Bhubaneswar: The state government on Friday appointed senior OAS officer Anam Charan Patra as additional district magistrate (revenue), Gajapati. Patra, who is currently serving in Ganjam district, will also serve as special land acquisition officer, Cheligada irrigation project, Gajapati. Karunakar Raika, who was serving as ADM (revenue), Gajapati district recently succumbed to Covid-19. Patra will replace Raika, said official source. Among others, senior OAS officer Laxmikanta Sethi has also been deputed to Gajapati district to help the district administration in managing the Covid-19 situation. Among others, Chanchal Rana, currently serving as project director, district rural development agency, Mayurbhanj has been deputed in Sambalpur district to help the local administration in managing the pandemic situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/new-adm-appointed-in-gajapati/articleshow/77157445.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Ajmer||MSMEs want facilitation councils to clear nearly Rs 1k cr disputed payments||JAIPUR: Payments of nearly Rs 1,000 crore to over 1,500 MSMEs by various government departments and undertakings and some private sector entities have been stuck due to disputes, but all their hopes rest on facilitation councils which hasn’t had a meeting since March this year till last week to resolve the cases and release dues. As MSMEs restart their operations after lockdown, which robbed them of their order books and delayed their receivables, it is becoming a struggle to tie up working capital. They seek regular meetings of facilitation councils as disputes are piling up. “For restarting and rescaling operations in the current environment, we need working capital that will help us sourcing raw material, paying staff and meeting other core expenses. We have Rs 25 lakh pending since last 5 years and approached the facilitation council to resolve the issue so that we can get the money,” said Rajeev Toshniwal, who runs an engineering company in Ajmer dealing in instrumentation products. Last year, the government increased the number of councils from one to four for resolving the cases expeditiously. Now, there is a proposal to increase the number to nine. But without meetings and hearings, the facilitation councils would bring no relief to MSMEs as was witnessed during most of the tenure in the previous BJP government. “Meetings could not happen between March to June due to Covid-19 pandemic. These meetings create large gathering of people including the respective parties. But we have resumed them now. Between July 22-24, we have heard 137 cases and another 40 cases will be heard in Jaipur on 30th of this month,” Industries commissioner Archana Singh told TOI. She said that social distancing measures have to be followed but we are working on to put up an online system for regular disposal. In fact on June 13, the state finance department had issued an order directing all corporations, boards and autonomous bodies to clear dues of MSMEs within 15 days. The order had said that the MSMEs are undergoing difficult times because of lockdown and the subsequent demand decrease and the payments would help them in providing relief to some extent. But industry representatives said that the order still has to be implemented by most of the departments even though they were given a 15-day deadline. “Most of the payments have not been cleared by the government departments and undertakings. A review needs to be done by the government to understand if the order has been implemented or not,” said the industry representative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/msmes-want-facilitation-councils-to-clear-nearly-rs-1k-cr-disputed-payments/articleshow/77164113.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Cut off from traditional income sources, transgenders struggle to survive||Ludhiana: As Ludhiana continues to witness Covid-19 cases and city is yet to return to normal despite unlocking lockdowns, transgender community are struggling to survive. The community members aver that given the communicable nature of disease, people are not allowing them to gather for celebrations and are also not even giving them money at traffic junctions. Mohini Mahant, who is pursuing PhD and is a District Legal Service Authority (DLSA) para legal volunteer, said there are nearly 700 transgender community members in Ludhiana and they earn money by performing at marriages and at the households where a baby is born. She added that the community members also beg at traffic junctions, trains and buses. “As people don’t allow the community members to gather at marriages and at households where birth has taken place and also they cannot beg at the red lights and buses and trains, so their survival has become difficult. Though we do manage to get ration from here and there, but since we are not earning much, we are facing problems in paying rent,” said Mohini. She added that they would earn Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000 a month, but now they are earning very less. Many members echoed the same and said they are finding it hard to carry on with their normal lives. “We would earn from marriages and child births, but as of now not many marriages are happening so that source has dried up. Also, if a child is born in a family, they don’t allow us to gather at their gates because of Covid threat so that source of income is also not available to us any more,” said Aditi, who lives in Badi Haibowal. Her colleague Lovely chipped in and said they have not paid rent for four months. She added that since vehicles are not running and because of the fear of Covid-19, people don’t even open window to give them money at red lights. “Under such circumstances, how can we survive?” she asked. “The government must come forward to help us in such trying times.” Another community member, Nagma of Basti Jodhewal, who would perform in marriages, said marriages are also low key affair so they don’t come to know about those. She added that of the money they would earn, they would give Rs 3,000 to Rs 4,000 for rent and the rest they would spend on ration, but they are not even able to pay rent any more. Can be added as box: Living on charity Sarbat Da Bhalla, an organisation of NRI businessman S P S Oberoi, distributed ration to 35 transgenders. Dr Inderjit Dhingra, who is associated with the organisation said S P S Oberoi has been providing assistance, including ration and sanitisers to the needy people in the state and outside. He added that people had contacted them to get some help to the transgender community. “We gave ration kits containing wheat flour, rice, dals, soya bean, tea, sugar, spices (a total of 20 kg kit) to 35 transgenders at Dr Kotnis Acupuncture hospital in Saleem Tabri. The kits were distributed to them by retired IPS officer Iqbal Singh Gill,” said Dr Dhingra. He added that they have assured them that they will provide ration to them till November.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cut-off-from-traditional-income-sources-transgenders-struggle-to-survive/articleshow/77160140.cms||Shariq Majeed
July 25, 2020||Jaipur||MSMEs want facilitation councils to clear nearly Rs 1k cr disputed payments||JAIPUR: Payments of nearly Rs 1,000 crore to over 1,500 MSMEs by various government departments and undertakings and some private sector entities have been stuck due to disputes, but all their hopes rest on facilitation councils which hasn’t had a meeting since March this year till last week to resolve the cases and release dues. As MSMEs restart their operations after lockdown, which robbed them of their order books and delayed their receivables, it is becoming a struggle to tie up working capital. They seek regular meetings of facilitation councils as disputes are piling up. “For restarting and rescaling operations in the current environment, we need working capital that will help us sourcing raw material, paying staff and meeting other core expenses. We have Rs 25 lakh pending since last 5 years and approached the facilitation council to resolve the issue so that we can get the money,” said Rajeev Toshniwal, who runs an engineering company in Ajmer dealing in instrumentation products. Last year, the government increased the number of councils from one to four for resolving the cases expeditiously. Now, there is a proposal to increase the number to nine. But without meetings and hearings, the facilitation councils would bring no relief to MSMEs as was witnessed during most of the tenure in the previous BJP government. “Meetings could not happen between March to June due to Covid-19 pandemic. These meetings create large gathering of people including the respective parties. But we have resumed them now. Between July 22-24, we have heard 137 cases and another 40 cases will be heard in Jaipur on 30th of this month,” Industries commissioner Archana Singh told TOI. She said that social distancing measures have to be followed but we are working on to put up an online system for regular disposal. In fact on June 13, the state finance department had issued an order directing all corporations, boards and autonomous bodies to clear dues of MSMEs within 15 days. The order had said that the MSMEs are undergoing difficult times because of lockdown and the subsequent demand decrease and the payments would help them in providing relief to some extent. But industry representatives said that the order still has to be implemented by most of the departments even though they were given a 15-day deadline. “Most of the payments have not been cleared by the government departments and undertakings. A review needs to be done by the government to understand if the order has been implemented or not,” said the industry representative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/msmes-want-facilitation-councils-to-clear-nearly-rs-1k-cr-disputed-payments/articleshow/77159201.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Jodhpur||MSMEs want facilitation councils to clear nearly Rs 1k cr disputed payments||JAIPUR: Payments of nearly Rs 1,000 crore to over 1,500 MSMEs by various government departments and undertakings and some private sector entities have been stuck due to disputes, but all their hopes rest on facilitation councils which hasn’t had a meeting since March this year till last week to resolve the cases and release dues. As MSMEs restart their operations after lockdown, which robbed them of their order books and delayed their receivables, it is becoming a struggle to tie up working capital. They seek regular meetings of facilitation councils as disputes are piling up. “For restarting and rescaling operations in the current environment, we need working capital that will help us sourcing raw material, paying staff and meeting other core expenses. We have Rs 25 lakh pending since last 5 years and approached the facilitation council to resolve the issue so that we can get the money,” said Rajeev Toshniwal, who runs an engineering company in Ajmer dealing in instrumentation products. Last year, the government increased the number of councils from one to four for resolving the cases expeditiously. Now, there is a proposal to increase the number to nine. But without meetings and hearings, the facilitation councils would bring no relief to MSMEs as was witnessed during most of the tenure in the previous BJP government. “Meetings could not happen between March to June due to Covid-19 pandemic. These meetings create large gathering of people including the respective parties. But we have resumed them now. Between July 22-24, we have heard 137 cases and another 40 cases will be heard in Jaipur on 30th of this month,” Industries commissioner Archana Singh told TOI. She said that social distancing measures have to be followed but we are working on to put up an online system for regular disposal. In fact on June 13, the state finance department had issued an order directing all corporations, boards and autonomous bodies to clear dues of MSMEs within 15 days. The order had said that the MSMEs are undergoing difficult times because of lockdown and the subsequent demand decrease and the payments would help them in providing relief to some extent. But industry representatives said that the order still has to be implemented by most of the departments even though they were given a 15-day deadline. “Most of the payments have not been cleared by the government departments and undertakings. A review needs to be done by the government to understand if the order has been implemented or not,” said the industry representative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/msmes-want-facilitation-councils-to-clear-nearly-rs-1k-cr-disputed-payments/articleshow/77164112.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Rebel Congress camp elated after high court order||JAIPUR: Following the high court order asking the speaker to maintain status quo on their petition challenging the notice under anti-defection law, the Sachin Pilot camp seems to be elated. Many MLAs in the Pilot camp, who were silent in the past few days, took to Twitter to register their happiness. Rebel MLA and former minister Vishvendra Singh tweeted, “Stay granted! Jai Veer Tejaji! Jai Maharaj Suraj Mal!”. Stay granted ! Jai Veer Tejaji ! Jai Maharaj Suraj Mal!— Vishvendra Singh Bharatpur (@vishvendrabtp) 1595570674000He also retweeted a tweet by another MLA Ramniwas Gawriya whom Singh addresses as his second son. “Har Kisi ka daman karna beshak tumhara pesha hai, tumhare daman ko sahana ab na hamara bas ka hai. Purkhon ke haq aur apmaan ka badla lekar jadugar ke daman ka anth Rajasthan ke Pilot ke netrutva mai yuva peedhi karegi.” (Suppressing everyone is of course your profession, to bear your oppression is no longer possible. Revenge for the rights and insults of the forefathers, suppression of the magician will be ended by the youth under the leadership of ‘Pilot of Rajasthan’) MLA Mukesh Bhakar tweeted, “Abhi ganimath hai sabr mera, abhi labalab bhara nahi hu, woh mujhko murda samajh raha hai, usse kaho mai mara nahi hu, woh keh raha hai ki kuch dino mai mita ke rakh dunga nasl teri, hai uski aadat dara raha hai, meri fitrat dara nahi hu.” (Right now patience is rewarding, I am not yet full. He thinks me dead, tell him I’m not dead. He says in a few days ‘I will eliminate your breed’, scaring is his habit, but I am not by nature afraid of him). अभी गनीमत है सब्र मेरा, अभी लबालब भरा नहीं हूँ,वो मुझको मुर्दा समझ रहा है, उसे कहो मैं मरा नहीं हूँवो कह रहा है… https://t.co/AaiGFvOzkw— Mukesh Bhakar (@MukeshBhakar_) 1595576077000Some of the MLAs in the Pilot camp also released a video refuting the charge of chief minister Gehlot that the MLAs were kept in captivity. The chief minister on Friday morning before going to the Governor alleged that many MLAs sent SOS that they wanted to return, but were kept under forceful confinement. The MLAs Murararilal Meena, Ved Prakash Solanki and Suresh Modi said the chief minister is spreading lies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/rebel-cong-camp-elated-after-high-court-order/articleshow/77163718.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Rebel Congress camp elated after high court order||JAIPUR: Following the high court order asking the speaker to maintain status quo on their petition challenging the notice under anti-defection law, the Sachin Pilot camp seems to be elated. Many MLAs in the Pilot camp, who were silent in the past few days, took to Twitter to register their happiness. Rebel MLA and former minister Vishvendra Singh tweeted, “Stay granted! Jai Veer Tejaji! Jai Maharaj Suraj Mal!”. Stay granted ! Jai Veer Tejaji ! Jai Maharaj Suraj Mal!— Vishvendra Singh Bharatpur (@vishvendrabtp) 1595570674000He also retweeted a tweet by another MLA Ramniwas Gawriya whom Singh addresses as his second son. “Har Kisi ka daman karna beshak tumhara pesha hai, tumhare daman ko sahana ab na hamara bas ka hai. Purkhon ke haq aur apmaan ka badla lekar jadugar ke daman ka anth Rajasthan ke Pilot ke netrutva mai yuva peedhi karegi.” (Suppressing everyone is of course your profession, to bear your oppression is no longer possible. Revenge for the rights and insults of the forefathers, suppression of the magician will be ended by the youth under the leadership of ‘Pilot of Rajasthan’) MLA Mukesh Bhakar tweeted, “Abhi ganimath hai sabr mera, abhi labalab bhara nahi hu, woh mujhko murda samajh raha hai, usse kaho mai mara nahi hu, woh keh raha hai ki kuch dino mai mita ke rakh dunga nasl teri, hai uski aadat dara raha hai, meri fitrat dara nahi hu.” (Right now patience is rewarding, I am not yet full. He thinks me dead, tell him I’m not dead. He says in a few days ‘I will eliminate your breed’, scaring is his habit, but I am not by nature afraid of him). अभी गनीमत है सब्र मेरा, अभी लबालब भरा नहीं हूँ,वो मुझको मुर्दा समझ रहा है, उसे कहो मैं मरा नहीं हूँवो कह रहा है… https://t.co/AaiGFvOzkw— Mukesh Bhakar (@MukeshBhakar_) 1595576077000Some of the MLAs in the Pilot camp also released a video refuting the charge of chief minister Gehlot that the MLAs were kept in captivity. The chief minister on Friday morning before going to the Governor alleged that many MLAs sent SOS that they wanted to return, but were kept under forceful confinement. The MLAs Murararilal Meena, Ved Prakash Solanki and Suresh Modi said the chief minister is spreading lies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rebel-cong-camp-elated-after-high-court-order/articleshow/77159244.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Trichy||Textile shop cluster adds 106 +ve cases in Ariyalur||Trichy: More than 100 Covid-19 cases have been added to Ariyalur district in the last two weeks that are linked to a textile showroom in heart of Ariyalur town. The district health authorities have traced all the contacts of the showroom employees and customers, while around 1,100 RT-PCR tests were conducted.On July 11, an employee of a textile showroom situated on MP Koil street in Ariyalur tested positive for Covid-19. He had influenza like illness (ILI) prompting him to get self-tested. Health officials said that the employee contracted the infection during the inter-district travel. A majority of the employees hail from rural Ariyalur and hamlets from the neighbouring districts including Trichy, Thanjavur and Perambalur. As all the 158 employees were quarantined and tested, 58 of them test positive. Officials through dailies and fever camps reached out to the customers, insisting them to undergo Covid-19 test if they had visited the outlet recently. 1,100 people including primary contacts of employees, street vendors near the outlet and families of customers, were tested in the last two weeks. 48 of them tested positive.From 509 total positive cases in Ariyalur on July 11, the textile showroom cluster increased the number to 620 as of July 18. “The commercial street and adjacent streets where the shop is situated were brought under containment zone for a thorough disinfection drive. As a result of meticulous contact tracing, the cluster was contained,” said D Rathna, Ariyalur district collector. Health officials said that commercial establishments in Ariyalur were told to be on high vigil to avoid such clusters from surfacing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/textile-shop-cluster-adds-106-ve-cases-in-ariyalur/articleshow/77160139.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 25, 2020||Chandigarh||In ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar’ webinar, Channi says will fill 1 lakh vacancies in govt||Chandigarh: The Punjab government has decided to fill one lakh vacant posts in different departments, announced employment generation minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday. The minister said these vacancies would be filled in two phases, of which 50,000 would be filled in the current year and added that the process of hiring in many departments is already underway. He was speaking at the inaugural webinar for youth, held under the flagship scheme Ghar Ghar Rozgar Yojana, on topic “Emerging dynamics in employment of youth, post Covid-19: Challenges and opportunities”. Channi said the department of employment generation will provide career counselling to the youth and guide about the challenges and opportunities for employment post Covid-19. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-ghar-ghar-rozgar-webinar-channi-says-will-fill-1-lakh-vacancies-in-govt/articleshow/77157489.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Living on charity||Sarbat Da Bhalla, an organisation of NRI businessman S P S Oberoi, distributed ration to 35 transgenders. Dr Inderjit Dhingra, who is associated with the organisation said S P S Oberoi has been providing assistance, including ration and sanitisers to the needy people in the state and outside. He added that people had contacted them to get some help to the transgender community. “We gave ration kits containing wheat flour, rice, dals, soya bean, tea, sugar, spices (a total of 20 kg kit) to 35 transgenders at Dr Kotnis Acupuncture hospital in Saleem Tabri. The kits were distributed to them by retired IPS officer Iqbal Singh Gill,” said Dr Dhingra. He added that they have assured them that they will provide ration to them till November.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/living-on-charity/articleshow/77160142.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Rebel Congress camp elated after high court order||JAIPUR: Following the high court order asking the speaker to maintain status quo on their petition challenging the notice under anti-defection law, the Sachin Pilot camp seems to be elated. Many MLAs in the Pilot camp, who were silent in the past few days, took to Twitter to register their happiness. Rebel MLA and former minister Vishvendra Singh tweeted, “Stay granted! Jai Veer Tejaji! Jai Maharaj Suraj Mal!”. Stay granted ! Jai Veer Tejaji ! Jai Maharaj Suraj Mal!— Vishvendra Singh Bharatpur (@vishvendrabtp) 1595570674000He also retweeted a tweet by another MLA Ramniwas Gawriya whom Singh addresses as his second son. “Har Kisi ka daman karna beshak tumhara pesha hai, tumhare daman ko sahana ab na hamara bas ka hai. Purkhon ke haq aur apmaan ka badla lekar jadugar ke daman ka anth Rajasthan ke Pilot ke netrutva mai yuva peedhi karegi.” (Suppressing everyone is of course your profession, to bear your oppression is no longer possible. Revenge for the rights and insults of the forefathers, suppression of the magician will be ended by the youth under the leadership of ‘Pilot of Rajasthan’) MLA Mukesh Bhakar tweeted, “Abhi ganimath hai sabr mera, abhi labalab bhara nahi hu, woh mujhko murda samajh raha hai, usse kaho mai mara nahi hu, woh keh raha hai ki kuch dino mai mita ke rakh dunga nasl teri, hai uski aadat dara raha hai, meri fitrat dara nahi hu.” (Right now patience is rewarding, I am not yet full. He thinks me dead, tell him I’m not dead. He says in a few days ‘I will eliminate your breed’, scaring is his habit, but I am not by nature afraid of him). अभी गनीमत है सब्र मेरा, अभी लबालब भरा नहीं हूँ,वो मुझको मुर्दा समझ रहा है, उसे कहो मैं मरा नहीं हूँवो कह रहा है… https://t.co/AaiGFvOzkw— Mukesh Bhakar (@MukeshBhakar_) 1595576077000Some of the MLAs in the Pilot camp also released a video refuting the charge of chief minister Gehlot that the MLAs were kept in captivity. The chief minister on Friday morning before going to the Governor alleged that many MLAs sent SOS that they wanted to return, but were kept under forceful confinement. The MLAs Murararilal Meena, Ved Prakash Solanki and Suresh Modi said the chief minister is spreading lies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/rebel-cong-camp-elated-after-high-court-order/articleshow/77163722.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Will start chipko movement against Mattewara project’||Ludhiana: Despite the state government’s claims that no forest land will be used for the industrial park project at Mattewara, the controversy surrounding the project refuses to die down. Recently, several business associations gave their open support to the state government’s decision to go ahead with the project, which has not gone down well with the locals and some social activists. Many of them are now threatening to start a series of protest against the decision and have also warned the government that they will resort to ‘chipko movement’ if the project was not called off.According to Maninderjit Singh Bawa, a prominent progressive farmer of Machian village, “The adamant behaviour of the government and politicians to go ahead with the industrial park at Mattewara is forcing us to protest. We are also considering to start ‘chipko movement’ in our area and we have called for a meeting of representatives of all villages and environmentalists, which is scheduled for the next week. In the meeting, the next course of action will be decided.”“The stand of the industry and the government that no forest land will be used in the proposed industrial park at Mattewara is totally illogical. The entire belt of Mattewara region comprises villages, forests, flora and fauna and water bodies. Whether the project comes up at the forest land or any other land, the consequences will be the same. “The project will destroy the ecology of the area. The industry associations should show little concern for the environment and they should urge the government to shift this project to some other location as it will not only help save our precious area, but also solve the industry’s problem of not having adequate industrial land,” Bawa said.According to Advocate Jugrajit Singh of Machian village, “Locals of all villages stand united on the issue of the industrial park and no one in the entire area is in favour of this project. Any such project will be met with strong resistance from the villagers. Environmentalists, NGOs and people from all walks of life are supporting our cause. The government must respect public sentiments and stop pushing for this project as it is not in favour of anyone. It would be in the best interest of everyone that government comes up with some eco-tourism project here instead of the industrial project. This proposed project will only cause pollution and depletion of natural resources.” Not even single inch of forest land will be used: CMDuring a facebook live session, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh said that not even an inch of the forest land will be used for the development of the industrial park at Mattewara. “There is no question of destroying the Mattewara forest. Statements made by certain people suggesting that the forest would be destroyed are simply not true. The government has taken 955 acres of land of animal husbandry, horticulture department and gram panchayat. The acquired land does not include an inch of the 2,300 acres of the Mattewara Forest. The objective behind the planned industrial park is to create a vibrant industrial estate where people of Ludhiana and nearby areas can get good jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/will-start-chipko-movement-against-mattewara-project/articleshow/77155702.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Rebel Congress camp elated after high court order||JAIPUR: Following the high court order asking the speaker to maintain status quo on their petition challenging the notice under anti-defection law, the Sachin Pilot camp seems to be elated. Many MLAs in the Pilot camp, who were silent in the past few days, took to Twitter to register their happiness. Rebel MLA and former minister Vishvendra Singh tweeted, “Stay granted! Jai Veer Tejaji! Jai Maharaj Suraj Mal!”. Stay granted ! Jai Veer Tejaji ! Jai Maharaj Suraj Mal!— Vishvendra Singh Bharatpur (@vishvendrabtp) 1595570674000He also retweeted a tweet by another MLA Ramniwas Gawriya whom Singh addresses as his second son. “Har Kisi ka daman karna beshak tumhara pesha hai, tumhare daman ko sahana ab na hamara bas ka hai. Purkhon ke haq aur apmaan ka badla lekar jadugar ke daman ka anth Rajasthan ke Pilot ke netrutva mai yuva peedhi karegi.” (Suppressing everyone is of course your profession, to bear your oppression is no longer possible. Revenge for the rights and insults of the forefathers, suppression of the magician will be ended by the youth under the leadership of ‘Pilot of Rajasthan’) MLA Mukesh Bhakar tweeted, “Abhi ganimath hai sabr mera, abhi labalab bhara nahi hu, woh mujhko murda samajh raha hai, usse kaho mai mara nahi hu, woh keh raha hai ki kuch dino mai mita ke rakh dunga nasl teri, hai uski aadat dara raha hai, meri fitrat dara nahi hu.” (Right now patience is rewarding, I am not yet full. He thinks me dead, tell him I’m not dead. He says in a few days ‘I will eliminate your breed’, scaring is his habit, but I am not by nature afraid of him). अभी गनीमत है सब्र मेरा, अभी लबालब भरा नहीं हूँ,वो मुझको मुर्दा समझ रहा है, उसे कहो मैं मरा नहीं हूँवो कह रहा है… https://t.co/AaiGFvOzkw— Mukesh Bhakar (@MukeshBhakar_) 1595576077000Some of the MLAs in the Pilot camp also released a video refuting the charge of chief minister Gehlot that the MLAs were kept in captivity. The chief minister on Friday morning before going to the Governor alleged that many MLAs sent SOS that they wanted to return, but were kept under forceful confinement. The MLAs Murararilal Meena, Ved Prakash Solanki and Suresh Modi said the chief minister is spreading lies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/rebel-cong-camp-elated-after-high-court-order/articleshow/77163720.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Meerut||UP: Irked by ‘violent’ son, man hires goons and gets him killed||MEERUT: A man in Hapur district allegedly got his son, 20, killed after being fed up with his "lavish ways, consistent demands of money and violent behaviour". Rishabh Tomar, who lived in Ghaziabad’s Defence Colony, was found dead with his throat slit on the driving seat of his new car on Wednesday morning in Hapur’s Simbhaoli area. Police took just two days to crack the case. The father, Kamal Chand Tomar, and two criminals he had hired and paid Rs 2 lakh to get Rishabh killed have been arrested in Hapur. Kamal, who owns an automobile repair shop, said, “My son had lost his senses. He used to hurl abuses and even beat me and my wife for money. He once broke an arm of his mother. I took him to a doctor also and he was even under treatment. But, every now and then he would demand money. Our lives had become hell. I was left with no choice.” Hapur’s superintendent of police (SP) Sanjeev Suman said, “Kamal Chand paid Rs 2lakh to his neighbour, Kamal Pal, to kill Rishabh. Pal hired his friends Pramod, who already knew Rishabh well. They took Rishabh to Simbhaoli on some pretext and they consumed liquor. Then they killed Risabh.” The SP said that he got suspicious about Kamal’s role soon after the murder. “We got suspicious at the very moment when Rishabh’s parents came and told us about the murder. They were not bothered much and even asked us not to conduct a post-mortem examination on the body. They were also not keen on filing an FIR. A detailed investigation revealed the plot. We have recovered Rs 1.3lakh from the three youths.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/irked-by-violent-son-man-hires-goons-and-gets-him-killed/articleshow/77155722.cms||Sandeep Rai
July 25, 2020||Vijayawada||Amount to be spent on setting up hospital infra||Amaravati: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has said the government is ready to release an additional Rs 1,000 crore over the next six months to tackle Covid-19. He said the amount should be utilised to step up infrastructure in hospitals and also for patient care services. The CM also directed taking over another 54 hospitals for Covid-19 treatment, taking the total number of Covid-19 care institutions to 134. The chief minister reviewed Covid-19 containment measures with senior officials at the camp office on Friday. He also instructed officials to procure expensive drugs such as Remdesivir and Tocilizumab for providing best treatment to critical patients. When the officials said that each dose of expensive drugs might cost around Rs 35,000, the chief minister asked them to forget about expenditure while providing treatment. “I want that the highest quality of treatment be provided to patients in all Covid-19 hospitals at any cost. Keep stocks of expensive drugs too to provide services to the critical patients,” said Jagan. He directed officials to focus on reducing mortality rate among positive patients. He asked the finance department to clear bills pertaining to the health department without any delay. The CM said close to Rs 5 crore per day is being spent exclusively for the conduct of tests and Rs 1.5 crore for providing food and other facilities to patients in the Covid care centres. The chief minister gave the green signal for recruitment of more specialist doctors and paramedical staff on a war footing. He said there should not be any dearth of human resources in the Covid-19 hosptials in the next six months. The officials said three out of five designated Covid-19 state hospitals have started operations to add 2,380 beds to the existing capacity for critical care services. They said another two hospitals would also be ready in the next few days. Officials said taking over 54 more hospitals for Covid-19 care services would take the total number of hospitals available for Covid-19 treatment to 138. About 39,051 beds are available in Covid-19 hospitals, they said, adding that about 4,300 ICU beds, 17,380 non-ICU beds with oxygen and 17,371 non-ICU beds are available in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/amount-to-be-spent-on-setting-up-hospital-infra/articleshow/77157503.cms||Samdani MN
July 25, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM urges Rajnath Singh for upgradation of 3 airstrips||DEHRADUN: In view of Uttarakhand’s strategic location — the state shares a 650-kilometre-long international border with China and Nepal — chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat recently spoke to Union defence minister Rajnath Singh and sought better air connectivity for the Himalayan state. During the discussion, CM Rawat requested for four “quality” airstrips in the state. He requested that the three existng airstrips — in Pithoragarh, Uttarkashi, and Chamoli districts — be upgraded and a new one should be constructed in Almora. In the past, Chinese intrusion has been reported at Barahoti in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand and recently, Nepal has claimed areas of Pithoragarh district as its own. “Uttarakhand is strategically crucial and it is extremely important to have a good road and air connectivity in the state. After coming to office, our party has laid focus on the issue,” CM Rawat said while adding that “the Centre too has provided us a good team of Border Roads Organisation and we have extended full cooperation. The obstacles on Lipulekh Road were removed by us and it helped BRO make a good road in the area. Similarly, an outstanding road has been made by the BRO on the Niti Valley route.” The CM added that a good air connectivity is also important for the state. He informed that upgradation works were ongoing at Uttarkashi and Chamoli airstrips and the fund has been released for the Pithoragarh airstrip extension. The CM has asked the Union defence minister for a new airstrip in Chaukhutia area of Almora district. “We are working on the existing airstrips and are optimistic of getting one more airstrip approved for the state,” the CM said. He also maintained that a Civil Aviation team and a DGCA unit will be coming to the state to inspect the Pantnagar airport to explore the possibilities of the facility being developed as an international airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-cm-urges-rajnath-singh-for-upgradation-of-3-airstrips/articleshow/77155761.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Guru Nanak Dev stadium not open for practice at least till first week of Aug||Ludhiana: In wake of rising number of Covid-19 cases across the district, Ludhiana sports department has decided not to resume athletic practice sessions at Guru Nanak Dev stadium till first week of August. The decision became inevitable as state sports department refused to allow the local coaches of the district sports department to reopen their regional coaching centres. There are 15 training centres in the district that have not been functional for the last four months, owing to the outbreak of Covid-19 and the enforcement of strict lockdown across the nation. After receiving instruction, local officials of the sports department held a meeting with local coaches and made them aware about the latest guidelines being issued by higher authorities of the state sports department and asked them to continue their training sessions online. Earlier, local sports department officials were planning to start the practice sessions at Guru Nanak Dev stadium for local athletes, following the completion of its maintenance work. District sports officer Ravinder Singh said, “According to the new instructions received from the higher authorities of state sports department, local coaches are not opening any other local coaches centres in the district till first week of August. Local coaches are focussing more on online training sessions.We are also not opening the Guru Nanak Dev stadium for any morning training sessions because large number of Covid-19 cases are being reported in the city in the last few days, which are posing threat to local players as well coaches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/guru-nanak-dev-stadium-not-open-for-practice-at-least-till-first-week-of-aug/articleshow/77160145.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
July 25, 2020||Kolhapur||Covid cases continue to rise in W Maha||Kolhapur: As many as 369 cases were reported in Kolhapur district on Friday, the highest number of cases ever reported in a single day since the outbreak of Covid-19. 11 patients succumbed to the infection—again the highest mortality count in a single day. The Covid-19 tally in the district has reached 3,651, of which 2,395 are active cases. As many as 127 new cases were recorded from 70 localities in Solapur city on Friday. Of the 4,305 positive patients in the city, 1,481 are active patients undergoing treatment in various hospitals. As many as 108 people tested positive for Covid-19 and six people succumbed to the infection in the rural parts of Solapur district on Friday. Of the 2,529 patients reported from the rural areas of the district, 1,621 are active cases. The death toll stood at 63 till Friday night. Satara district registered 92 fresh cases, taking the tally of positive patients to 2,852. Of this, 1,213 are active cases. Meanwhile, the death toll of Satara district breached the 100-mark with three more people succumbing to the infection on Friday. The death toll now stands at 101. Sangli district reported 71 cases and two deaths. The total cases in district has reached 1,355 and the death toll 44.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/covid-cases-continue-to-rise-in-w-maha/articleshow/77155767.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Rural Ganjam shows dist’s urban centres how to tackle virus spread||Bhubaneswar: The urban centres in Ganjam seem to be the most affected by novel coronavirus compared to the district’s rural areas. While 62 per cent of the urban areas are affected by the virus, it is only 14 per cent in villages. As per official data, as many as 174 of the 280 wards in 18 urban local bodies (ULB), including Berhampur Municipal Corporation (BeMC), have reported positive cases. However, as many as 2,753 of the 3,195 villages in 22 blocks are free of infection, indicating the fact that rural areas have done well in containing the spread of the virus. The figures suggest that around 86 per cent of the villages are free of infection despite the fact that around 80 per cent of over 3 lakh migrants who have returned to Ganjam have their homes in rural areas. “Low case load in the rural areas is a result of successful management of the temporary medical camps, which were used to accommodate migrants who had returned from various areas. Our sarpanches have done a commendable job in ensuring quarantine of almost all returnees. There were some issues in the urban areas, because of which the numbers there are quite high,” Ganjam district collector Vijay Amruta Kulange said. In urban areas, barring a few local bodies like Gopalpur, Kodala, Ganjam and Polasara, more than 50 per cent wards of the remaining ULBs have reported positive cases. In BeMC, the largest commercial hub in southern Odisha, Covid-19 cases have been reported from all the 40 wards. While only 9 per cent wards in Gopalpur NAC have positive cases, other NACs with low case loads are Kodala (15 per cent), Ganjam (33 per cent) and Polasara (37 per cent). A senior government official, overseeing the Covid-19 management in the district for the last four months, said one has to understand the social structure and accept the reality behind the surge in cases. “The clumsy and overcrowded housing pattern and markets in the urban areas of Ganjam suits the virus spread. Initially, there were some lacunae by the administration in ensuring social distancing, which is also a reason behind the rise in cases,” said the official. Of the 7,634 cases reported in the district, most have come from urban areas. The district has 3,076 active cases as on Friday. Sunil Kota, a senior health expert from Ganjam said, “Most of the popular markets, especially in Berhampur, the commercial capital of the region, receive thousands of people every day, which could be a reason behind the surge of cases. Also, people initially did not adhere to social distancing and wear masks, which might have helped in spread of virus.” Jayant Panda, a senior doctor of the SCB Medical College, who is also the technical consultant to the state government said, “Rural people are more disciplined in terms of adhering to social distancing norms and taking precautions than urban population. This is the reason behind the spread of virus in urban areas.” EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/rural-ganjam-shows-dists-urban-centres-how-to-tackle-virus-spread/articleshow/77157508.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Sarpanch on the job to fight nCov infection||Bhubaneswar: Rasmita Kumari Jena (26), the sarpanch of Mathura panchayat in Ganjam district, has been continuously working to help people during the pandemic. She not only assists officials in conducting door-to-door survey but also manages quarantine centres and other Covid-19 related activities in her area. There are around 10 villages with 10,000 population in this panchayat under Khallikote block. Hundreds of people from these villages migrate to other states in search of jobs. “I get up at around 5.30 am and prepare breakfast for my family members that includes my four-year-old son before moving out on work. My husband also helps me sometimes. The government has set up a quarantine centre at Mathura high school. Around 30 people are housed there right now. We prepare tea and breakfast for them in the morning,” said Jena. She has engaged cooks at the quarantine centre. Jena along with some officials check the taste and quality of the food everyday. “Apart from lunch and dinner, we serve tea and biscuits in the evening. I return home with my husband at night,” she said,adding that her schedule has been such since March 23. “My family members take care of my child. Four months have already passed. Positivity and peer support will help us to fight this battle,” said the sarpanch. She said people of her panchayat support her in the campaign. “Only three people of our panchayat have tested positive for Covid-19 since March 23. We have successfully quarantined around 800 people in four months. Our panchayat has reported the three cases in the last three days,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/sarpanch-on-the-job-to-fight-ncov-infection/articleshow/77157483.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
July 25, 2020||Nagpur||NMC to cut q-term from 14 days to 7; starts 10-day system||NAGPUR: With steep rise in Covid-19 cases, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has started discharging people from institutional quarantine after 10 days, with plans to reduce it to seven days, from the earlier norm of 14 days. The zilla parishad (ZP) has also started admitting asymptomatic patients in its Covid Care Centres (CCC) in 12 of the 13 tehsils. The civic body has also directed 10 private hospitals to be ready to admit corona positive patients in the next two days. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi and chief medical officer Dr Yogendra Savai revised the quarantine guidelines in a meeting on Friday. NMC sources told TOI, people who have completed 10 days in institutional quarantine centres, and having no symptoms, were discharged on Friday. This system will now continue. NMC used to quarantine and test high-risk contacts of positive patients immediately after admission. Second test was done on 14th day and they were discharged if they tested negative. “Now, people will be discharged without testing on 11th day, just like the system for positive patients in Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCHs). NMC medical staff will check only oxygen level and temperature. NMC ordered Rapid Antigen Kits in bulk. People will be tested on 7th day at quarantine centres using these, and discharged if they test negative,” sources said. The decision is a fallout of surge in cases, with entire families and other high-risk contacts requiring quarantine after each positive patient. Also, the civic body is facing a severe shortage of staff for opening new quarantine centres. For the first time, Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) has reportedly exhausted all beds in isolation wards. Out of total 500 beds, 330 were for patients with mild severe symptoms and 170 in ICU. As on Friday, 360 patients were admitted in GMCH. At IGGMCH, 264 patients were admitted till filing of this report against total capacity of 548. Here, 152 are in ICU. NMC sources said GMCH sent back 15 positive patients on Thursday citing lack of space and all had to be admitted in quarantine centre. “Many who tested positive on Thursday were admitted in isolation wards on Friday. Some 222 tested positive on Friday, of which a majority are yet to be admitted,” sources said. AIIMS has already exhausted its capacity of 50 patients in the last few days. MLA Hostel CCC has also exhausted capacity as 369 were admitted as on Friday. Also, over 50 patients were admitted in new CCC opened at Shalinitai Meghe Hospital at Hingna. It is reportedly taking one-two days for positive patients to get admission in isolation wards since the last two days. Also, GMCH, IGGMCH and AIIMS continue to face rise in non-Covid cases. Therefore, as per instructions of divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar, ZP has started CCCs at headquarters of 12 of the 13 tehsils for asymptomatic patients. CCC at Bhiwapur is ready but not started as this tehsil is yet to register any case. Also, the civic body on Friday sent letters to 10 private hospitals directing them to prepare to admit Covid-19 patients. “Prepare and submit report that hospital is ready for novel corona patients within 24 hours. Positive patients will be admitted after 48 hours,” the letter said. Mundhe had on April 23 issued a notification declaring 12 private hospitals with over 100 beds as DCH, and asked them to be ready by April 27. But GMCH, IGGMCH and AIIMS managed all patients till sudden rise in cases recently. The number of cases in the district increased to 3,687 on Friday of which 1,310 are active cases. 2,182 cases have been registered in 24 days of July whereas 1,505 in 112 days between March 11 and June 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-to-cut-q-term-from-14-days-to-7-starts-10-day-system/articleshow/77159272.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 25, 2020||Chandigarh||Civic hospital gets ventilator-equipped ambulance, more expected soon||Ludhiana: The state health department on Friday handed over the first ventilator-equipped ambulance to civil hospital authorities for ferrying the high-risk patients to other better equipped hospitals. Till now, people who cannot afford private ones have been struggling to avail the benefit of ventilator-equipped ambulances. The privately owned ventilator-equipped ambulances charge anything between Rs 10,000 and Rs 15,000. A senior official said, “In view of rising number of Covid-19 cases, district health department felt the need for ventilator-equipped ambulances for ferrying the high-risk patients to different health centres in the district. We raised the demand before the state health department which finally approved the long-pending demand and delivered state of the art ventilator-equipped ambulance.” Saikat Mukharji, state coordinator of 108 ambulance service, said “The ambulance will cater to the needs of the poor patients who cannot afford the cost of privately-run ambulance.” According to Mukharji, 30 ambulances are allocated to Ludhiana district for managing the transportation services of emergency patients. “But after the outbreak of Covid-19 in the district, we decided to include 10 ambulances with ventilators specifically for Covid-19 patients in that 30”, told Mukharji to TOI. Meanwhile, a member of a local non governmental organisation, Samvedna, which is already running a ventilator-equipped ambulance for the poor and needy patients, has also decided to add one more ventilator-equipped ambulance to deal with the rising demand. Jajpreet Singh, manager of Samvedna Sewa Trust, said, “We already run several ambulances free of cost to help the poor. We also distributed 25,000 masks to local administration and are planning to add another ventilator-equipped ambulance in the next few days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/civic-hospital-gets-ventilator-equipped-ambulance-more-expected-soon/articleshow/77160144.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
July 25, 2020||Kochi||24-hour ‘Red Button’ facility launched in Thrissur||THRISSUR: City police in association with Thrissur corporation have launched 24-hour ‘Red Button’ terminals in the limits of corporation and Shaktan Nagar. Local self-government minister A C Moideen inaugurated the facility at the city police control room on Thursday. Using the Red Button, an equipment that works on robotic technology, public can send alerts to police control room in case of any adversity. Public can also talk to the control room officials using the telephone fixed in the terminal. “The information provided through the terminal will be handed over to police patrolling vehicles. The patrolling vehicle will reach the terminal within minutes and assure assistance,” said a police officer. “The facility aims to provide protection to the public, especially women and kids. Anyone can use the facility without revealing their personal details. Public can also share details of crimes and other anti-social activities happening in the locality,” added the officer. “The terminals with 4k resolution cameras will help capture footages in 360-degree angle. The visuals captured will be send immediately to the nearby police station, patrolling vehicles and flying squad,” said the officer For the first time in India, robotic intelligence facility is used for law and order enforcement. RButton Technologies under Kerala Start-Up Mission has developed the technology and Thrissur corporation provided the assistance to fix the terminals inside the city. In the first phase, terminals were fixed in the corporation limits and Shaktan Nagar. In the next phase, terminals will come up in other parts of the district. Thrissur mayor Ajitha Jayarajan, city police commissioner R Aditya, Thrissur assistant commissioner V K Raju, Town east station house officer Lalkumar and control room inspector V Baburaj attended the inaugural function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/24-hour-red-button-facility-launched-in-thrissur/articleshow/77155808.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC to Twitter: Explain silence over Islamophobia on platform||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court on Friday made it clear that Twitter Inc must respond to the notices being issued by it and explain as to why it had remained silent when hate-mongers were using its space to spread hatred against Islam. Asserting that mere deletion of hate tweets would not suffice, the court said attributing the spread of coronavirus to the religion was unfair. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing a public interest litigation plea filed by advocate Khaja Aijazuddin, who brought to the notice of the court various hashtags such as #Islamiccoronavirusjihad, #Coronajihad, #Tablighijamat, #Nizamuddinidiots, #Tablighi Jamat Virus’, etc, purposefully created to spread hatred against Islam and Muslims. The bench had earlier issued notices to Twitter but there was no response. The court had also issued notices to the Union cabinet secretary along with the Union ministry of home affairs in the last hearing. Observing that they also did not file replies till now, the judges asked assistant solicitor general N Rajeswara Rao to ensure that they file their counters by the next hearing. Aijazuddin said the Hyderabad police swung into action and issued notices to Twitter. “They informed the social networking firm of the penal consequences that would follow. Twitter then responded and deleted the defamatory hashtags,” he said. Islamophobic tweets: Next hearing on August 20He further said, “But this is not sufficient. Twitter must explain as to why it allowed its space to be misused this way which has the potential to disturb communal harmony in the society.” At this point, the judges said they would pass an exparte order if the US-based company still chooses to remain silent. Following a request from the petitioner to allow him to send a notice to Twitter office in San Francisco through FedEx courier, the judges allowed him to issue a personal notice to the company. Appreciating the effort of the petitioner in bringing the issue to the notice of the court, Justice Vijaysen told him in a lighter vein, “Now, serve it a notice. Tweet now asking Twitter to respond.” The case will come up for hearing again on August 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-to-twitter-explain-silence-over-islamophobia-on-platform/articleshow/77159257.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
July 25, 2020||Goa||Greater need to guard India’s waters, must stop reliance on defence imports: Shripad Naik||PANAJI: Union minister of state for defence Shripad Naik said on Friday that in the current hostile geopolitical situation, there is a greater need to guard India’s coastline and territorial waters. Addressing senior naval officers, and shipyard and MSME representatives, Naik stressed on the need to reduce India’s reliance on defence imports.  He said that manufacturing for defence forces is a massive opportunity for local suppliers, as the Indian Navy itself has orders worth around $60 billion till 2020-30. “We need to be on our guard due to the current geopolitical scenario, as we remain surrounded by a hostile neighbourhood,” said Naik at the virtual meet organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry in collaboration with Goa Shipyard Limited.  “To counter the threats, India needs to keep its coastline and surrounding waters under constant surveillance. Proactive and preventive capabilities are essential,” the minister said. Naik said that modernisation of the armed forces and indigenisation has emerged as a focus area in recent months, but that the efforts would pay off only with industrial support from the private sector. “There is a need to consolidate the Indian maritime defence industry in the best possible way for the growth of the Indian maritime sector,” Naik said. “We should aspire to be a quality shipbuilding nation like Japan or Korea, which can be possible when Indian industry is equipped with in-house, state of the art technology at par with global benchmarks.” The Indian Navy’s assistant chief of material (modernisation) Rear Admiral S N Alamanda, shed light on the navy’s modernisation plans and future acquisitions, and urged private players to conduct research and develop equipment that is currently being procured from foreign companies. Alamanda said that as India’s shipbuilding industry matures, the country could become a hub for defence shipbuilding and exports to foreign countries. CII organised the buyer-seller virtual meet with a focus on original equipment manufacturers and vendors from the sectors dealing with component, turn-key contracts and sub-contract works, with an aim to create a strong supplier base to strengthen indigenous manufacturing. “We should focus more on R&D to develop AI, enable processes to cut costs and enable material savings. The segment is receiving a much-needed push,” said Naik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/greater-need-to-guard-indias-waters-must-stop-reliance-on-defence-imports-shripad/articleshow/77160159.cms||---
July 25, 2020||Chandigarh||BJP leaders protest outside PSPCL office against fixed charges on industrial connections||Ludhiana: District president of Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) Pushpinder Singal, along with three other office bearers of party, protested outside Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) for not waiving fixed charges on industrial connections and increasing the fixed charges on domestic connections. Keeping in view the guidelines regarding Covid-19 and imposition of Article 144 in the state, only four people sat on protest while other officer bearers and workers were supporting the protest online. A memorandum was also given to chief engineer. The district president said state government has once again stepped back from its announcements, which shows that government cares nothing about the problems of industrialists or general public. He said the government had gained appreciation by announcing waiver of fixed charges on medium supply and large supply industrial units from March 22 to May 22, but the power regulatory commission has cheated industrialists by announcing that fixed charges will be recovered in six instalments. He said the industrial units were kept closed due to government orders so it was the duty of the government to take care of these fixed charges. According to him, the domestic consumers too were imposed more fixed charges from June 1. The government has increased the fixed charges from Rs 45 to Rs 60 on consumers having power connections from 2 kilowatts to 7 kilowatts. Similarly, from 7 kilowatts to 50 kilowatts connections the fixed charges are revised from Rs 50 to Rs 75. Singal said the government should pay the fixed charge to powercom and the increased fixed charges on domestic connections should be rolled back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-leaders-protest-outside-pspcl-office-against-fixed-charges-on-industrial-connections/articleshow/77160148.cms||---
