July 26, 2020||Kochi||This transwoman, a biryani expert, isn’t ready to let hardships win||Those who have been taking Kochi’s Seaport-Airport road on working days in the past one month, must have often spotted a young transwoman. Braving the heat and rain, she stands on the roadside, selling biryani packets. Till a while ago, 29-year-old Sajana Shaji had enough requests coming in for her traditional biryani, wrapped in banana leaf, through Tik Tok. But when the platform was banned, she lost many customers, added to which were the fewer takers because of Covid-19. But Sajana wasn’t ready to give up. Sajana, who was also the first transwoman in Kochi to take a driving licence, ration card and voter’s ID, tells us, “I did try other social media platforms too to find customers, but it takes time to build a business. Earlier, I used to sell more than 200 packets daily. But now, I don’t make a profit, though the customer numbers are increasing slowly. I love cooking and this is a skill I use to survive, so I don’t want to give up yet. That’s why I am trying the new mode of roadside sales.” Sajana adds, “I make the kind of biryani that is the kind that used to be served at weddings, in the past. The delicious aroma sticks on to your hands. I cook with utmost care.” The young woman, who lives in Vazhakkala, says she gets up at 4 am, six days a week. “I do all the cooking myself. By 9 am, the biryani is ready. In about 1.5 hours, the packing is done and by 11.30 am, I reach the Seaport-Airport road. I spend about five hours on the road selling the packets,” she says. Now, with the help of a few other youngsters, she is also selling at the High Court Junction and certain spots in Kalamassery. A class 9 graduate who originally hails from Kottayam, Sajana says she left home around her Onam examination time of class 10. Life isn’t easy, even though her work gives her some independence. She says, “There are some auto-drivers and a few others who approach me with indecent requests. And it’s not easy trying to sell standing on the roadside, under the scorching sun and with speeding vehicles; there are many risks. However, I don’t want any of it to dampen my spirit. All I’m trying to do is earn my livelihood, decently.” Watch Transwoman Sajana Shaji sells biryani on Kochi roads||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/this-transwoman-a-biryani-expert-isnt-ready-to-let-hardships-win/articleshow/77167031.cms||Deepa Soman
July 26, 2020||India||Covid-19: High percentage of false negatives seeds suspicions about rapid antigen tests||NEW DELHI: A moderate to very high percentage of negative results in antigen tests for Covid-19 are turning out to be positive in RT-PCR testing, making states like Maharashtra treat initial positivity rates with increasing suspicion and prompting others like Tamil Nadu to rely exclusively on the real-time PCR test from the get-go. Data from two major civic laboratories in Mumbai shows that up to 65% of symptomatic patients who had tested negative for the novel coronavirus in antigen tests were later confirmed positive in RT-PCR testing. While this underscores the risk of false negatives in rapid antigen testing, Delhi has reported a significantly higher success rate than Maharashtra using the same method. Between June 18 and July 21, around 15% of symptomatic patients who had first tested negative were confirmed positive for the virus in the RT-PCR test. Read AlsoActive Covid-19 cases down to less than 10% in DelhiDelhi recorded 1,142 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, pushing the city’s case load to almost 1.3 lakh, while the death toll jumped to 3,806.According to the Union health ministry, over 3.6 lakh samples had been tested in Delhi during that period using the rapid antigen method. Of these, 6% were found positive for Covid-19. Of those that tested negative, 2,294 cases were symptomatic and re-tested using the RT-PCR method for confirmation. Around 15% of these patients were found positive for the virus. This divergence is the reason why Tamil Nadu, which tests nearly 50,000 people every day across 113 hospitals, relies on RT-PCR as its sole Covid-19 diagnostic tool. “We have adequate supply of RT-PCR kits and the facilities to run the test. So, we decided to stick to the most reliable test,” state health secretary J Radhakrishnan said. Dr P Umanath, managing director of the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation that procures drugs and equipment for all state-run hospitals, said antigen testing could actually end up delaying intervention because the incidence of false negatives was “too high”. Bengaluru, a late entrant into the Covid-19 hotspot map, started conducting rapid antigen tests on July 20, totalling a little over 8,500 samples till Friday. No analysis of the test results has been done so far, although there is a consensus among healthcare professionals that antigen testing outcomes cannot be treated as even a remotely correct indicator of the Covid spread. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news “Rapid antigen tests have a lower sensitivity compared to RT-PCR, but the trade-off is that you get the results within an hour. That’s why these tests are used mainly for screening purposes,” said a health official in Delhi. Delhi conducted 14,810 rapid antigen tests and 5,250 RT-PCR tests in 24 hours last Wednesday. In Hyderabad and other parts of Telangana, 60-70% of all Covid-19 testing is done using the rapid antigen method. Although Telangana has no official data yet on false negatives, health officials have estimated that 7% of these patients go on to test positive in the RT-PCR method. Watch Covid-19: High percentage of false negatives seeds suspicions about rapid antigen tests||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-high-percentage-of-false-negatives-seeds-suspicions-about-rapid-antigen-tests/articleshow/77176233.cms||---
July 26, 2020||India||With no food and money, Ghanaian footballers seek help from their President||PANAJI: With each passing day, Richard Hanson is getting frustrated in Dimapur. The Ghanaian had arrived in Nagaland early this year as coach-cum-player for Nagaland Rising Star Academy on a six-month contract. His plan was to prove himself and move elsewhere, but the coronavirus pandemic has turned his world upside down. “Good morning, Mr President. Please, we are footballers in India. We came for trials. I would like you to help us through your power to return. We can’t even pay our rent and even to eat is very difficult in this time of Covid-19. Please help us to return home. Thank you,” Richard tweeted in response to a post from the official account of Nana Akufo-Addo, President of Ghana. Richard wasn’t speaking only for himself. He is the voice of about 30-odd Ghanaian players who had arrived here with dreams of a career in football, but are now stuck with almost nothing. “It’s becoming increasingly difficult. I don’t have anything. No money and I have to survive by eating rice all the time,” Richard told TOI on Saturday. In Kolkata, Forson Kojo Obeng is counting the days when he will return home to his family. He had packed his bags and carried little money in the hope that he would, given a chance, impress a few clubs in India. He knocked on some doors, but before the door opened, Covid-19 had engulfed the nation. “We are three of us in a room here in Kolkata. Whatever little money we had brought from home is over. Now we cannot even afford to pay rent of Rs 9,500 and then we have to take care of our food too. We don’t know what to do,” said Forson. The Ghanaian footballers, most of them doing duty for lower-ranked clubs and who normally get paid on per-match basis while playing in non-recognised tournaments, had got in touch with the Consulate of Ghana. They were told that a flight is available but Rs $1200 (approx. Rs 90,000) per person was simply too much to pay. Besides, there were additional quarantine charges too. “We want to move out of India. Cases of coronavirus are on the rise. Our rent and eating is a big problem,” said Richard. For Stephen Kwazi Menza, getting home is now a matter of life and death. The Ghanaian defender was doing well with Thrissur-based Jaya Bakery in the lucrative Sevens circuit. He was paid Rs 3,000 per game, if his team won there would be a bonus of Rs 1000. But for the last four months, Menza is bed-ridden with what the team manager says is a “critical condition.” “I have informed his family but it’s important that he gets home. With international flights yet to resume, we are all in a fix,” said club manager Rafeeq P B. Since the 26-year-old defender has not played, Jaya Bakery is not obliged to pay. Yet, Rafeeq, other club officials and even the All Kerala Sevens Football Association have been digging deep into their pockets to pay the Rs 25,000 that is needed to tide over the crisis every month. Professional footballers have been helped by their respective clubs with lodging and boarding during the hour of crisis. However, those who landed here hoping to make the cut have been left to fend for themselves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/with-no-food-and-money-ghanaian-footballers-seek-help-from-their-president/articleshow/77176363.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
July 26, 2020||India||Another round of LAC troop talks to be held next week||NEW DELHI: The fifth round of corps commander-level talks between India and China will be held next week to take forward the stalled disengagement process at Pangong Tso and Gogra-Hot Springs as well as discuss the restoration of status quo in the strategically-located Depsang Plains region in eastern Ladakh. Sources said on Sunday that the rival commanders on the ground were in touch over the hotline to clarify matters over the stalled disengagement process before the next round of corps commanderlevel talks is held in the “second half” of next week. The north bank of Pangong Tso (Tso means lake) remains the main problem. PLA troops have so far only moved back from the face-off site at the ‘base’ of ‘Finger-4’ to ‘Finger-5’ (mountainous spurs), without also fully vacating the ridge-line that dominates the area. PLA has since early-May built scores of fortifications and gun positions after occupying the 8-km stretch from ‘Finger-4’ to ‘Finger-8’, where India says the LAC runs north to south, as was earlier reported by TOI. Army’s Northern Command chief Lt-General Y K Joshi, talking to TV channels on Sunday, said “all efforts” were under way to restore status quo, as it existed before mid-April along the line of actual control (LAC), and Indian troops would remain forward deployed till it was achieved. The “complex and intricate” process of disengagement, initiated after four rounds of military talks, would be verified by the local commanders to ensure its “veracity and correctness” on the ground, he said. Refusing to give a timeframe, Lt-Gen Joshi said, “I believe the negotiations and process of this engagement and commitment of both sides to adhere to the laid down methodology would dictate the timeline of the standoff.” He added, “There are certain factors, though, such as the country’s territorial integrity, that are not negotiable. While we are investing sincerely in this ongoing endeavour to bring about peace, we also remain prepared at all times for any eventuality.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/another-round-of-lac-troop-talks-to-be-held-next-week/articleshow/77176381.cms||---
July 26, 2020||India||Rajasthan: SC doesn’t leave much option to governor on assembly sessions||NEW DELHI: As Rajasthan Congress MLAs demand summoning of the state assembly, a reading of the Supreme Court’s rulings do not leave much scope for the governor to exercise his discretion once the state cabinet has recommended convening of a session. Questions whether the governor, in exercise of his powers under Article 174, could defy or delay advice of the Ashok Gehlot government are answered by the view that this can be done only when the government’s majority is in doubt. With Congress disinclined to engage in further legal battles after failing to gain any favourable decision either from the Rajasthan HC or the SC, the spotlight is on Raj Bhavan. Article 174 of the Constitution says, “The governor shall from time to time summon the House or each House of the legislature of the state to meet at such time and place as he thinks fit, but six months shall not intervene between its last sitting in one session and the date appointed for its first sitting in the next session.” Does this mean the governor has discretion to summon the House as per his assessment, disregarding the advice of the council of ministers headed by the CM? A five-judge bench of the SC in Nabam Rebia judgment (July 2016) scrutinised the provision in the draft constitution and its final version as Article 174 and ruled, “We are satisfied in concluding that the governor can summon, prorogue and dissolve the House only on the aid and advice of the council of ministers with CM as the head. And not on his own”. The bench said, “We are of the view that in ordinary circumstances during the period when the CM and his council of ministers enjoy the confidence of the majority of the House, the power vested with the governor must be exercised in consonance with the aid and advice of CM and his council of ministers.” In the above situation, he is precluded from taking an individual call on the issue at his own will, or in his own discretion. “In a situation where the governor has reasons to believe that CM and his council of ministers have lost the confidence of the House, it is open to the governor to require the CM and his council of ministers to prove their majority in the House, by a floor test. Only in a situation where the government in power on the holding of such a floor test is seen to have lost the confidence of the majority would it be open to the governor to exercise the powers vested with him under Article 174 at his own.” Does the Rajasthan governor think that Gehlot government has lost its majority and he is not bound by its advice to summon the House as advised? Even then, the governor has to instruct the CM to prove his majority on the floor of the House and there are numerous SC judgments which bar the governor from taking a decision in Raj Bhavan on whether a government enjoys the confidence of the House or not. The SC has repeatedly ruled that test of strength has to be on the floor of the House. Watch Rajasthan crisis: SC doesn’t leave much option to governor on assembly sessions||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajasthan-sc-doesnt-leave-much-option-to-governor-on-assembly-sessions/articleshow/77176393.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
July 26, 2020||India||Big number of Indian IS agents from Karnataka & Kerala: UN||NEW DELHI: A UN report on the global terror threat from Islamic State (ISIS) and al-Qaida has stated that al-Qaida in Indian Subcontinent comprises between 150 and 200 members from India, including a significant number from Karnataka and Kerala, besides persons from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Myanmar. It also states that the AQIS is reportedly planning attacks in the region. The 26th report of UN analytical support and sanctions monitoring team concerning ISIS, al-Qaida and associated individuals and entities, released on July 23, cites a member state’s account that IS Indian affiliate (Wilayah Hind), announced in May 2019, has “significant numbers of ISIL operatives in Kerala & Karnataka”. Sharing its assessment on the impact of the Covid-19 on terror activities of the ISIS and al-Qaida, the monitoring team said curbs imposed by member-states had limited freedom of movement and disrupted terrorist planning. “Restrictions on international travel significantly constrain terrorist mobility, networking and finance-related activity,” the UN report said. As per the report, AQIS is operating under the Taliban umbrella from Afghan provinces of Nimruz, Helmand and Kandahar. AQIS, it stated, is planning retaliatory strikes in the Indian subcontinent to avenge the death of its former leader. On Covid-related restrictions, it said, “The same restrictions have reduced the number of potential targets available globally. With public gatherings discouraged and venues closed, there are few targets available to terrorists looking to undertake ISIL-inspired attacks. This highlights the operational limitations of ISIL since it gave up its external operational capability. Member-states believe that the group has increased the urgency with which it is seeking to reconstitute that capability,” states thereport. Watch Big number of IS agents from Karnataka, Kerala: UN Report||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/big-number-of-is-agents-in-karnataka-kerala-un/articleshow/77176434.cms||---
July 26, 2020||India||In victory for India, Canada to not recognise Khalistan vote||NEW DELHI: In a significant victory for Indian diplomacy, the Justin Trudeau government stated this week that they would not recognise the Punjab 2020 Referendum event organised by Khalistani separatist group Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) scheduled for November. News agencies quoted Canadian foreign ministry saying that Canada respects India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity and would not recognise the Referendum 2020. SFJ had reached out to Trudeau earlier this year to “bless” the event. Trudeau, whose party and government relies heavily on Sikh support, has been reluctant to act against these groups. Even on the SFJ event, Canada had maintained an open mind. But in interactions at different levels, India has emphasised its red lines, distinguishing between outreach to the Sikh community and countenancing Sikh extremism. For some time, India has been lobbying with the Canadian government on the dangers associated with Khalistani groups in Canada, particularly SFJ. Intelligence agencies of both countries have been exchanging information more frequently than before. Ajay Bisaria, Indian envoy to Canada, has been busy. As former high commissioner to Pakistan, Bisaria led the Indian effort to explain to the Canadian government the links between Khalistani groups and Pakistan’s infamous ISI. Indian officials said, “We have given the Canadians details about the illegal activities by these Khalistani groups in India, Canada, and the US.” But it was the connections between SFJ and Pakistan that may have turned the tide. SFJ has been spamming Indian phone numbers for the past few weeks, focusing on Delhi, Punjab and J&K, regarding the ‘referendum’. Sikhs make up about 8% of Trudeau’s cabinet, and he has attended Khalistani rallies, including bringing along an exSikh extremist in his entourage to India in 2018. However, following the visit, a low point in ties, India and Canada signed an anti-terror cooperation pact.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-victory-for-india-canada-to-not-recognise-khalistan-vote/articleshow/77176441.cms||Indrani Bagchi
July 26, 2020||India||Covid infection among young due to genetic defects: Study||NEW DELHI: Why are some young people without any pre-existing medical condition getting severe Covid-19 infection? A new study shows it could be because of genetic defects or primary immunodeficiency that impacts the body’s ability to produce interferon — a critical element in fighting Covid-19. Interferons are proteins made and released by host cells in response to virus attack. A virus-infected cell releases interferons causing nearby cells to heighten their anti-viral defences. Findings of the study, published in the ‘Journal of American Medical Association’ (JA MA), show that in a case series, including four young men from two unrelated families with severe Covid-19, unique loss-offunction variants in X-chromosomal TLR7 were identified, with immunological defects in type I and II interferon production. All these patients required mechanical ventilation in ICU, and one of them died. Toll-like receptor 7 (TLR7) encodes proteins that play critical role in pathogen recognition and activation of innate immunity. Experts say the findings, though with limitations, need to be studied further and can be relevant in identifying the cause of Covid severity in young patients. “Such functional loss of gene-producing important protein which can help fight infections tells us to look for similar genes in young people having severe disease, and also will help us develop drugs,” says Dr Anoop Misra, Chairman, Fortis C-Doc. In India, while people in older age groups above 45 continue to be more at risk from Covid-19 in terms of fatalities, as many as 43% deaths have taken place in the relatively younger age bands of 30-44 and 45-59, according to latest health ministry data. The findings also assume significance because genetic mutations in individuals can be very difficult to predict. Doctors say a person may have such condition but it may get detected only when the gene is found not to be functioning against a particular condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-infection-among-young-due-to-genetic-defects-study/articleshow/77176445.cms||Sushmi Dey
July 26, 2020||India||Rajasthan: After governor queries, Ashok Gehlot says need session to discuss Covid||JAIPUR: Slapped with a list of six questions from the governor on why he wants the assembly convened at short notice, Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot on Saturday sent a revised cabinet proposal to Raj Bhavan for a special House session by next week to discuss the Covid-19 pandemic, take stock of the state’s finances and table some bills. The revised proposal to governor Kalraj Mishra capped a frenetic 24 hours for the CM, during which he presided over two cabinet meetings and a CLP discussion in between that ended with Gehlot saying Congress wouldn’t hesitate to take its fight to Rashtrapati Bhavan and the PM’s residence, if need be. A 15-member BJP delegation met governor Mishra with a request to take “appropriate action” against CM Gehlot for “provoking” people to gherao Raj Bhavan while allegedly remaining indifferent to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria said, “The method adopted to demand an assembly session was unfortunate. Staging a dharna at Raj Bhavan till the governor does not give in is immoral and unconstitutional.” Congress units staged demonstrations at all 33 district headquarters during the day, accusing BJP of attempting to topple an elected government through horse-trading of MLAs. At the CLP meeting held in the Jaipur hotel where Congress MLAs have been corralled since July 13, Gehlot said, “In a democracy, the key aspect is who has majority. When the majority is with us and we want to go to the floor of the House, it is beyond comprehension why we should be stopped (from asking for an assembly session) ...Our fight can be turning point in saving democracy in India.” AICC spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala was quoted as saying at the CLP meeting that the current crisis would be remembered for how “102 people” crushed the rebellion led by sacked deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot. Surjewala had been claiming all along that the Gehlot enjoyed the support of 109MLAs. Referring to the 19 dissident MLAs, AICC in-charge Avinash Pande said, “The party high command insisted that any colleague should be given the opportunity to openly speak up within the family. But unfortunately, they (the dissidents) have become a puppet in the hands of BJP. Now, I do not think they will be able to come back from where they are.” Watch Need session to discuss Covid pandemic, says Ashok Gehlot||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajasthan-after-governor-queries-ashok-gehlot-says-need-session-to-discuss-covid/articleshow/77176461.cms||Bhanu Pratap Singh
July 26, 2020||India||Nepal envoy: We don’t cultivate ties with a country at expense of another||We do not cultivate relations with one country at the expense of relations with another. In today’s interconnected world, engagements are not a zerosum game. So, the insinuation about Nepal acting under other countries’ pressure is totally baseless and does not hold ground,” Nilamber Acharya, Nepal’s ambassador to India, told TOI when asked if China had a role to play in the flaring up of the old Kalapani issue. The Kalapani issue “is an irritant that needs to be resolved soon...The question of boundary is strongly associated with people’s emotions. First, it is our responsibility that we address the irritant of bilateral relations in a timely and appropriate manner and, secondly, we should ensure that a particular issue does not bulge out to spoil the wider spectrum of neighbourly relations,” Acharya said in an email interview. Acharya, who has served as Nepal’s law and justice minister and also as envoy to Sri Lanka, said, “Nepal has been consistently emphasising on resolution of the outstanding boundary issue through friendly talks and, in fact, as recently as in December last year, Kathmandu approached New Delhi to set up dates for a meeting of foreign secretaries mandated to talk on this issue.” But the date could not be fixed and the issue remained, he said. Acharya said a major segment of Nepal-India boundary alignment has been agreed and strip maps have been jointly prepared. “In this context, resolution of the small remaining portions would not be difficult if we were pre pared to tackle the issue. Nepal’s claim over Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura is known to the Indian side. These areas lie east of Kali river and hence belong to Nepal as per the Treaty of Sugauli. Majority of our boundary alignment is settled. Let’s find settlement on the remaining two small segments and declare complete resolution of the Nepal-India boundary. When that happens, a longstanding irritant of Nepal-India bilateral relations would be left behind once and for all,” he said. On India and Nepal’s traditional ‘roti-beti’ ties and the impact the border dispute would have on them, the ambassador said, “Nepal-India relations are not confined to one particular issue or particular area. Scope and depth of these relations are immense and the traditional cultural proximity as well as the adherence to the sacrosanct principles of sovereign equality, mutual respect and mutual benefit provide solid foundation to these relations.” Reacting to PM Oli’s recent remarks on Ayodhya, where he had claimed that the real birthplace of Lord Ram was in Nepal, Acharya said, “Our foreign ministry has clarified that the Prime Minister was simply stating the importance of further study and research on the vast cultural geography represented by the Ramayana. His remarks, made at a programme organised to mark the birth anniversary of the poet Bhanubhakta Acharya, who had translated the Ramayana into Nepali language, were not linked to any political subject. There is no need to engage in the game of exaggeration.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nepal-envoy-we-dont-cultivate-ties-with-a-country-at-expense-of-another/articleshow/77176464.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh hails Canada’s rejection of SFJ’s drive||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has welcomed Canada’s decision not to recognise the results of the “Referendum 2020” being organised by pro-Khalistan group Sikhs for Justice (SFJ). He said he hopes that other countries would also follow Canada’s example and reject the secessionist ‘Referendum 2020’, which the SFJ is promoting to divide India on communal lines. Amarinder was reacting to a media report quoting a spokesperson of the foreign ministry of Canada, who said, “Canada respects the sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity of India, and the government of Canada will not recognise the referendum.” He said the categorical stand taken by the Justin Trudeau government on the issue is exemplary and other nations and governments should also come out openly against SFJ, which has been banned by India as a terrorist organisation and whose founder Gurpatwant Singh Pannu has been declared a terrorist for actively promoting Pakistan-backed terror activities on the Indian soil. Amarinder said failure to openly oppose the separatist SFJ could set a dangerous precedent for any country, as it could be seen as a case of covert support to an organisation that is freely propagating secessionist activities. It is in the interest of global peace and security to reject forces that are bent on spreading terror, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/capt-hails-canadas-rejection-of-sfjs-drive/articleshow/77175849.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Pappu Yadav meets kin of Covid victims||BETTIAH: Jan Adhikar Party chief Pappu Yadav stirred political pot by visiting families of two Covid-infected deceased people, including BJP Bettiah City chief Kanhaiya Gupta, on Saturday. Pappu handed over Rs 50,000 to Gupta’s son and promised another Rs 1 lakh for his sister’s wedding. The JAP leader alleged that facilities to treat Covid patients at the Government Medical College at Bettiah are pathetic. “People are dying due to lack of treatment,” he said. After paying his condolences to the bereaved BJP leader’s family, Yadav took a potshot to ridicule the BJP leadership. “It is shameful that a party worker who died of Covid is paid tributes through videoconferencing,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pappu-meets-kin-of-covid-victims/articleshow/77172665.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
July 26, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM established standard of governance: RCP Singh||PATNA: JD (U) national general secretary (organization) R C P Singh on Saturday said Nitish Kumar was the first chief minister (CM) to have established a “standard of governance” in the state. Addressing the party’s ‘virtual sammelan’ for Bachhwara, Teghra (both in Begusarai district), Warisnagar and Morwa (both in Samastipur district) constituencies, Singh pointed out that soon after coming into power in 2005, Nitish Kumar had begun making a concentrated attack on the three ‘Cs’ — crime, corruption and communalism. “Before 2005, criminals used to roam freely on the streets and corruption had become a trend. In those days, it was a common practice to create tension among the people of two communities in the name of religion and caste. But Nitish put a brake on the three ‘Cs’ and implemented the policy of development with justice for the overall growth of all sections of the society,” Singh, who is also a Rajya Sabha MP, said. Singh asserted that the JD (U) would go to the polls with “great pride under the leadership of Nitish” for the fourth consecutive year. “There is no doubt that the people of Bihar will give him (Nitish) one more chance to rule the state. However, we want to ensure that our victory margin in the forthcoming polls is more than the previous ones,” he added. State information and public relations minister Neeraj Kumar, transport minister Santosh Kumar Nirala, JD (U) Jehanabad MP Chandeshwar Prasad Chandravanshi, Yuva JD (U) state president Abhay Kushwaha, party spokesperson Anjum Ara and media cell president Amardeep also addressed the ‘virtual sammelan’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rcp-nitish-established-standard-of-governance/articleshow/77172566.cms||Madan Kumar
July 26, 2020||Surat||Infected family physicians to get exclusive treatment in city hospitals||SURAT: With nearly 22 private doctors being infected with Covid-19, the Family Physicians Association of Surat (FPAS) has come forward to provide exclusive treatment facility to these medicos and their family members in the private hospitals if they contract the infection. FPAS office bearers said family physicians are the first point of contact for the patients. If the doctors or their immediate family members are infected, they should get exclusive treatment to ensure speedy recovery and return to the frontline duty. Right from reserving beds in the hospitals to providing 24x7 nursing staff and psychological support to the families, the association will be doing everything to save the lives of the doctors. While the majority of the 22 infected doctors are in home isolation, others are hospitalized. FPAS took the decision after the death of senior physician Dr Dilip Modi, who was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at a private hospital, on July 15. FPAS president Dr RC Jain told TOI: “We are deeply shocked with the death of Dr Modi. So, we took a decision to provide exclusive treatment to the doctors by reserving beds in the hospital, providing 24x7 nursing staff and psychological support to the family members.” Dr Jain added, “FPAS will bear the expenses for providing 24X7 nursing staff to the doctors and their family members admitted in the hospitals.” President of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Dr Chandresh Jardosh said, “This is the first time in Gujarat that the family physician association has come forward to help the doctors infected with Covid-19. Except for the hospitalisation charges, the association will bear all the charges including nursing staff for the doctors, hiring counsellors for the family members etc.” According to Dr Jain, the FPAS has demanded that the state government provide Rs 50 lakh compensation to the family physicians dying of Covid-19 infection. All the physicians are working as frontline corona warriors. Dr Jayant Shah, a family physician at Ghod Dod Road told TOI: “On an average, we are seeing about 40 patients a day, out of which about 15 have Covid-like symptoms. Though we are taking utmost precautions in our clinics, we are vulnerable to the infection. It is a welcome step by the FPAS that they will take care of the physicians getting infected for Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/infected-family-physicians-to-get-exclusive-treatment-in-city-hospitals/articleshow/77174135.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Surat||Four arrested for inciting police through social media groups||Surat: Four accused in five separate offences registered in each district of south Gujarat were arrested by the police on Friday. The accused have been alleged of inciting police personnel to form union and start a movement through social media demanding increase in grade pay, fixed job hours and permanency in jobs. Police arrested Kapil Desai, media coordinator of state unit of Youth Congress, Nirav Chaudhary, besides an SRP constable, along with two unemployed youths, Kalpesh Chaudhary and Rajesh Vadher. They were booked under various sections of Indian Penal Code including 120(b) (criminal conspiracy), 505 (statements conducing to public mischief, any person may be induced to commit an offence against the state). The accused have been booked under Disaster Management Act and The Police (Incitement to Disaffection) Act as well. Investigation so far revealed that the accused have formed groups on Telegram application and also included 33,000 members. They added various police personnel in the groups without taking their consent. “The accused have added mobile numbers of around 500 police personnel in this group and made them members without these cops’ knowledge. Cops do not open Telegram frequently and were unaware that they have been made members of the group,” IGP Surat range, Rajkumar Pandian told TOI. Earlier, an inquiry was ordered by Shivanand Jha, DGP, Gujarat, against all police personnel who were found to be members of these groups. “During inquiry we found that these cops from south Gujarat did not join the group by themselves but their numbers were added without their consent. These cops informed their seniors about these social media groups hence we registered offences based on their complaints,” added Pandian. Police so far found that Desai got some photographs clicked of common people, not associated with the police department, holding banners with demands including grade pay increase, fixed job hours and others for police personnel. Later he posted these photos in social media claiming them as protest by family members of police personnel. Meanwhile, Nirav was unhappy with his job in SRP and was facing financial crisis and family disputes. “Out of frustration he seems to have joined the group and included others in the group. He shared material to incite cops. He tried to delete it later after DGP’s orders but he did not know how to do it,” said police. Kalpesh and Rajesh both are active social media users and earn from generating hits on their social media pages. They have joined these groups, added members and posted fake material to incite the members, police investigation revealed. ...ends||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/four-arrested-for-inciting-police-through-social-media-groups/articleshow/77174176.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: 123 arrested from Bidhannagar civic area for flouting rules||KOLKATA: Old habits die hard. After attaining a successful lockdown last Thursday, which led to only 26 prosecutions in the entire Bidhannagar commissionerate area, the number multiplied during Saturday’s lockdown. There were 123 arrests, most of them from areas like Baguiati, Kestopur and Lake Town, and several persons were booked for hanging out on the road or playing cards. These were the very areas from where complaints of rule violation had been rampant during the first phase of lockdown and are also the pockets that have contributed the most number of Covid cases in the entire Bidhannagar subdivision till date. Out of the 1,589 total cases in Bidhannagar, areas on both sides of VIP Road, like Baguiati, Kestopur and Lake Town, and the Duttabad locality contribute to more than 60%. “By Saturday noon, 57 people had been arrested. Out of them, 35 were picked up from Baguiati and Kestopur areas. There were people roaming the alleys, playing cards in groups by the road side and others needlessly walking outside without masks,” said an officer. According to cops, 24 bikes and seven cars were also seized for lockdown violation. Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation is reeling under a Covid wave with over a thousand new cases being reported this month so far. Till June 30, there were only 480 cases in entire civic area. Exactly 100 new cases were reported last Wednesday, followed by 122 new cases the next day. On Saturday, however, the numbers came down significantly to just seven. There are 843 active cases in the Bidhannagar municipal area as of July 25 and 38 deaths till date. Ruing the rise in Covid cases in certain densely populated pockets, a senior civic official said, “It is unfortunate that there still seems to be some lack of awareness.” Meanwhile, a new locality in Sukantanagar, R Block S-473/2, 450/457 and Q-428, bordering Salt Lake in Sector III, has been included in the revised containment zone list brought out on Friday while two existing containment zones — one in FD Block and another in BE Block in Salt Lake — were removed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/123-arrested-from-bidhannagar-civic-area-for-flouting-rules/articleshow/77174640.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
July 26, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Test 40,000 samples a day, says Tejashwi Prasad Yadav||PATNA: Leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Saturday said the government should take steps to test 40,000 samples per day to contain spread of Covid-19 and bring down positivity rate. Tejashwi also lashed out at the state government over its handling of floods in north Bihar. “Floods and coronavirus have destroyed Bihar and people are helpless. Still those in power are only interested in contesting elections. They are least bothered about problems being faced by people,” Tejashwi said in a live session on a social media platform. Tejashwi said from June onwards, recovery rate started declining in the state and fatality rate increased. “When minimum daily test requirement was 10,000, Bihar barely managed to conduct 3,000 tests. Today, when the 40,000 samples should be tested, the number stands at 10,000. The government is not ramping up testing to hide positive cases,” he alleged. He said CM Nitish Kumar should have done at least an aerial survey of the flood-affected north Bihar district. “He is least concerned about people, but has time to go to Uttar Pradesh on August 5 and hold a virtual rally on August 7,” Tejashwi said. However, JD(U) state spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan said Tejahswi was spreading lies. “Health infrastructure has improved in the state in the past 15 years. Covid-19 is a pandemic. The health department is trying its best to contain the spread of the virus. We are already working on testing 20,000 samples in a day,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/test-40000-samples-a-day-says-tejashwi/articleshow/77172641.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 26, 2020||Patna||Covid +ve man kills self in Patna, second suicide in 24 hours||PATNA: Within 24 hours of a 21-year-old Covid-19 patient committing suicide at AIIMS-Patna, a 35-year-old man from Patna City, who had tested positive on July 16, allegedly hanged himself at his home on Saturday morning. The deceased, Ravi Kumar, was found hanging from a ceiling fan at his Tathagat Nagar house under Malsalami police station area around 9.30am. The body could not be retrieved for a few hours as the policemen responding to the scene did not have PPE kits. “None of us had entered inside residence as we don’t have PPE kits,” said Malsalami police station SHO Sudama Kumar Singh, adding, they were for experts from NMCH to handle the body. Patna City SDPO Manish Kumar said those handling bodies at NMCH will take away the body for post-mortem and proper disposal as per Covid-19 protocols. “Prima facie it appears that the man committed suicide due to depression after testing positive for Covid-19. Police are yet to quiz the family members but have got some details from the neighbours,” he further said, adding, “Police will lodge a case of unnatural death in connection with the incident for further investigation.” The SDPO clarified that so far there is no indication that the man committed suicide after failing to get admission in a hospital for treatment. The deceased was a vegetable wholesaler with his shop at Anta ghat near Gandhi Maidan. “He had kept his shop closed since lockdown in March,” a source said. According to sources, the deceased had attended the last rites of his brother-in-law, who had died of heart attack, a fortnight ago. “A few people in his and his in-laws’ family became ill after attending the last rites after which they all underwent Covid-19 tests. He turned out to be positive while everyone else tested negative,” another source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-ve-man-kills-self-in-patna-2nd-suicide-in-24-hours/articleshow/77172327.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 26, 2020||Patna||Bihar: All-party meet to be held on July 31||PATNA: State assembly speaker Vijay Choudhary on Saturday said an all-party meeting will be convened on July 31 to discuss issues pertaining to the proper conduct of the session of both Houses at the new venue Gyan Bhawan. “Leaders of various political parties have been invited to the meeting to seek their opinion. Things such as how to conduct the session keeping the new location and social distancing norms in mind and also the period of the session will be discussed at the all-party meet,” he added. “While the session of the assembly will be held at Gyan Bhawan on the second floor of the spacious building, the session of the legislative council will be held in the conference hall on the first floor. As per schedule, the session will commence on August 3 and conclude on August 6,” speaker Choudhary further said. The four-day monsoon session between August 6-9 was moved to Gyan Bhawan on the Samrat Ashok International Convention Centre premises by governor Phagu Chauhan on Friday after a request from the assembly speaker, who had written to the governor informing him that due to the social distancing norms in place, the session cannot be held in the central hall of the legislature’s premises. The assembly has at present 241 legislators out of the total strength of 243. Similarly, the legislative council currently has 54 members against total strength of 75. “The seats in the legislative council are lying vacant as elections couldn’t be held due to the Covid-19 pandemic and a few of its members also died of coronovirus,” a source in the secretariat said. The speaker said he had earlier written to the state government that it would not be possible to hold the assembly session in the Central Hall, which doesn’t have enough space to accommodate the members with proper seating arrangements in the changed scenario requiring social distancing. Gyan Bhawan, which was inaugurated by CM Nitish Kumar in 2017, has enough space along with entry and exit points to accommodate the legislators while following social distancing norms. The second floor of the building has a seating capacity of 800 people. In March this year, the Budget session had come to an end before time due to the Covid-19 outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/all-party-meet-to-be-held-on-july-31/articleshow/77172877.cms||Ramashankar
July 26, 2020||Surat||Fort wall of Bharuch’s historic Begum Wadi damaged||Bharuch/Surat: A portion of fort wall that acted as a support to Bharuch’s famous heritage building Begum Wadi partially collapsed early on Friday morning.Located in Furja area of the old city, the 40-feet high wall collapsed due to incessant rains that the town witnessed on Thursday and Friday.Begum Wadi is a 18th century building constructed by a Parsi merchant Mirza Moazziz who had named it after his daughter. It is one of the spacious Parsi building which with its terraces and gardens offers a wonderful view of Narmada river.The fort wall constructed in 1791 AD by Siddhraj Jaysinh, one of the famous rulers of the Solanki dynasty, is considered to be one of the oldest structures of the dynasty.In February 2019, Bharuch’s then collector Ravi Arora had taken an initiative to restore some of the old and heritage structures of Bharuch city including the partially damaged fort wall.After restoration, it had turned into a beautiful spot overlooking Narmada. But after portion of the fort wall damaged, future of ‘Begum Wadi’ too has become uncertain.Being a private property, government has its limitation when it comes to its restoration.“Ancient Bharuch is losing its glory as several heritage structures are not being restored. Tower of Bharuch which was pride of the city collapsed in 2002 but never got reconstructed or restored. Similarly, the first flood of Nathu Thobhan’s ‘dharamshala’ in Dandia Bazar area collapsed last year,” said Pillooben Jinwala, a member of Parsi community and Bharuch Citizen Council (BCC).“Last year, the district administration, Bharuch Nagarpalika and BCC had taken the initiative to bring back the old glory of Bharuch by restoring some of the buildings. But many buildings are under control of archaeology department which is rarely proactive. The state government needs to intervene as Bharuch is historically a very important town,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/fort-wall-of-bharuchs-historic-begum-wadi-damaged/articleshow/77174143.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Surat||Surat suspends pvt, GSRTC bus services for 10 days from Monday||Surat: Spike in Covid-19 cases in the city and district has forced the suspension of bus services, both private luxury buses and of Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation (GSRTC), to and from Surat for 10 days starting from July 27. However, smaller vehicles including private cars and taxis besides transportation of goods will continue as usual, said officials.In a notification issued on Saturday, the state transport commissioner’s office stated that operation of bus services both incoming and outgoing have been suspended owing to worsening pandemic situation in the city and district. Official sources in the divisional office of the GSRTC stated that about 1,200 buses operated from the Central Bus Stand (CBS) will stop services from Monday. The GSRTC has been operating a total of 468 daily trips including 92 trips to Saurashtra region, 152 trips to Ahmedabad and North Gujarat destinations and about 224 trips to Godhra, Vadodara, Bharuch, Nadiad, Valsad etc. There are about 732 local trips per day covering the entire Surat district. Sanjay Joshi, divisional controller of GSRTC told TOI, “The GSRTC bus services have been suspended to and from Surat for 10 days. About 1,200 buses will stop plying from Monday. The decision has been taken to contain spread of coronavirus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-suspends-pvt-gsrtc-bus-services-for-10-days-from-monday/articleshow/77174195.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Patna||Major rivers still flow above danger mark in Bihar||DARBHANGA/SITAMARHI/BAGAHA/KHAGARIA: A week on, major rivers continue to inundate large swatches of land in north Bihar districts. In Darbhanga, a chopper of Indian Airforce arrived at the local airbase on Saturday and was pressed into operation to airdrop ration packets in severely affected areas. DM Thyagrajan S M was present in the chopper during the food-dropping exercise. In a single sortie, 200 packets were dropped at Sughrain village, 250 packets at Tilkeshwar under Kusheshwar Asthan, 300 packets at Bagdiha village and 300 packets at Chhakar village under Keoti block. Darbhanga sadar block has become severely affected. Heavy waterlogging was also seen at Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) on Saturday. The floodwaters entered administrative building, medicine and gynaecology departments of the hospital. Reduction in intensity of rainfall in the last 24 hours gave some respite to people in Sitamarhi district on Saturday. All the major rivers, such as Bagmati, Lalbakeya Jhim, Hardi, Marar, Rato, Manushamara, Adhawara group and Lakhadei were, however, flowing above danger marks at several places. Sonbarsa Parihar, Bathanaha, Dumra, Choraut, Bhokhara, Riga, Suppi, Belsand, Runnisaidpur and Bajpatti blocks remain affected by floods. Vehicular movement remained stalled on Sitamarhi-Sursand, Sitamarhi-Parihar, Sitamarhi- Sheohar, Sitamarhi-Suppi, Singrahia-Baduri and Lagma-Bhasepur roads after floodwaters overtopped the roads at several places. DM Abhilasha Kumari Sharma said constant vigil was being kept on major embankments. In West Champaran, around 50,000 people are affected by floodwaters of Gandak and other hilly rivers in Bhitaha, Madhubani, Thakaraha, Yogapatti, Nautan, Bairia, Chanpatia, Majhaulia, Gaunaha, Ramnagar, Bagaha-1, Bagaha-2, Lauria and Mainatard blocks. Lilawati Devi, mukhiya of Shrinagar panchayat under Thakaraha block, said teh area has become an island and most families have shifted to Patazirwa in Bairia block. “Those who dared to stay at their homes with their domestic cattle have been suffering from cold, fever and foot ulcer,” she said. In Khagaria district, the flood situation continued to remain grim. The floodwaters of Kosi and Bagmati rivers spread to more areas on Saturday. The floodwaters of Bagmati have entered Rohiyar, Sarsawa, Buchha, Thutthi Mohanpur, Chautham, Madhya Borne and Poorvi Borne panchayats under Chautham block. Khagaria DM Alok Ranjan Ghosh said at least 88 villages under 27 panchayats have been affected by the current wave of floods. “Altogether 40 boats have been pressed into service for communication and distribution of relief materials. Two companies of State Disaster Response Force are carrying out rescue operations,” the DM added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/major-rivers-still-flow-above-danger-mark/articleshow/77172469.cms||Tirthraj Kushwaha
July 26, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Tribal widow tied to a pole and branded witch rescued||SURAT: Branding her as a witch, villagers tied a 36-year-old widow to a pole near her residence in a village near Valod of Tapi district till she was rescued by 181 Abhayam Helpline on Friday. The woman alleged that she had been subjected to torture by her neighbours for quite some time. On Friday, they thrashed her, tied her to a pole with a rope and were planning to call a witch doctor, but an alert resident’s timely call to Abhayam Helpline cut the atrocity short. Abhayam staff rescued and shifted the semi-conscious woman to a hospital for treatment. “The woman was partially unconscious after being thrashed mercilessly and kept tied to the pole for long. She was admitted in a nearby hospital,” said a helpline official. The officials informed that the woman who got married around 15 years ago, came to live with her mother after losing her husband six years ago. Since then, the neighbours derided her labelling her as a witch who “killed” her husband. “They used to harass her, forcing her to leave the village. The hapless woman continued to suffer in silence as she had no place elsewhere to go or seek help. The atrocities peaked on Friday when some alert villager informed 181,” said the official, adding that they have also informed the police. “We have initiated the process to register an offence. The woman is reluctant to lodge an offence but considering the heinous crime police went to meet the woman and started process to register offence,” said a police officer at Valod police station. The Abhayam Helpline officials also informed the neighbours on the spot about the crime they have committed in categorizing someone as witch and thrashing her. “We tried to explain to the villagers that witch and other such things are superstitions. They were made to understand that harassing anyone is a crime,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/tribal-widow-branded-witch-tied-to-pole-rescued/articleshow/77174257.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
July 26, 2020||Patna||LJP chief seeks probe into Covid patient’s ‘disappearance’||PATNA: Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief Chirag Paswan has written a fresh letter to chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar and sought a probe into the “disappearance” of a Covid-19 patient of Jamui from the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) in Patna since July 6. In his letter, Chirag pointed out that Ranjit Kumar, a native of Sheikhpura town, which falls under the Jamui parliamentary constituency, had been undergoing cancer treatment in Mumbai for the last six months. He was declared Covid positive on June 25 after a test conducted at the Mahavir Cancer Institute in Phulwarisharif and kept at an isolation centre in Sheikhpura on June 29. Later he was referred to the NMCH, but when his family reached the hospital to meet him on July 6, Ranjit could not be found. Chirag also said the NMCH authorities had not informed the patient’s family about his “disappearance”. Ranjit’s wife Anita Kumari told TOI over the phone on Saturday that she went to the NMCH again on July 13 to search for her husband. She tried lodging an FIR at a police station in the state capital, but “the cops were not ready” to record her statement. After the Sheikhpura police also “refused” to register her complaint, she approached the local MP. Chirag, who represents the Jamui constituency in the Lok Sabha, has also sent a copy of the letter to health minister Mangal Pandey, director general of police, district magistrates of Patna and Sheikhpura, civil surgeon of Sheikhpura and NMCH superintendent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ljp-chief-seeks-probe-into-covid-patients-disappearance/articleshow/77172717.cms||Madan Kumar
July 26, 2020||Dehradun||TOI Impact: Makeshift bridge from Yamuna removed||Dehradun: A makeshift bridge on Yamuna, constructed within 500 metres from the permanent bridge in Haripur, has now been removed by the miners on the instructions of local administration. On Saturday, the exhume pipes used for the construction of the makeshift bridge were being removed. The bridge was being constructed by miners allegedly in violation of the guidelines by the Union ministry of environment, forest, and climate change on mining. The move comes days after TOI reported that activists have been demanding a probe against miners involved in the illegal construction of the makeshift bridge in Yamuna. The activists have been constantly bringing the illegal works to the notice of the chief minister and the departments concerned through social media and through the Central Pollution Control Board. However, officials have said that the construction of the makeshift bridge was being done in tandem with the law and with due permission from the administration. “Its removal establishes the fact that people within the department were involved in illegal mining. We are happy that the makeshift bridge is being removed after the matter was highlighted by TOI,” said Bhim Singh Rawat, a member of Yamuna Nadi Mitra Mandli (which has been raising the issue of illegal mining). The activists though continue to demand a probe into the matter to identify the culprit officials involved in such illegal works. “We hope that the exhume pipes are not left behind in the river. If these pipes are not removed, these mining mafias will again start the construction of the bridge for illegal purposes after the monsoon concludes,” added Rawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/toi-impact-makeshift-bridge-from-yamuna-removed/articleshow/77173751.cms||Shivani Azad
July 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Kendrapada villagers live in fear as river inches closer home||Kendrapada: The lives of the people living in riverside villages in Kendrapada’s Rajkanika block are at stake with the Baitarani river eating into large tracts of land over the decades, particularly during the rainy season. “During every election, politicians promise us a stone-packed river embankment but forget about it once the hustings are over,” said Ashok Mallick, a resident of Bania. Baidyanath Behera, a farmer of Bandhamala village, said in the last 4 to 5 years, the river has devoured nearly two acres of agricultural land. “If corrective steps are not taken now, the entire village will vanish in a decade,” he said. The river has consumed large tracts of land in Jayakunda, Bajapur, Bania, Pandorokoli, Jhadamala, Katana, Bramashsani, Jhadamala, Bandhamala, Baradia and Upulei villages in the past three decades, leading to displacement of people. “Twenty years ago, the river was far away but now it is just few yards from my house. We have lost our farmland and more than 200 people have lost their homes. In 2010, the river devoured the Tarini temple and 15 years ago, the village school was gobbled up by the river,” said Harish Chandra Samal of Jayakund village. As recently as last month, the river flooded a hut in Bandhamala village. “I have lost two acres of land in the last 20 years. Last month, my hut started shaking at night. We rushed out in fear. In the morning, we found the remains of our thatched house in the river,” said Banamali Das of Bandhamala. In the last 30 years, Jagannath Behera (70) of Baradia has shifted houses four times to save himself from the marching river. But two months back, Jagannath was forced to leave his ancestral village after the river devoured his house. “I am forced to live with my daughter, whose husband is away working in Gujarat, after I lost my land and house to the Baitarani,” said Sabita Behera (70) of Jayakunda village. Baitarani is closing in on Katana gram panchayat but little is being done to contain it. “Ten years ago, the authorities stone-packed some river embankments but soon the stones were washed away due to poor quality of work,” said Nirakar Sethi, the sarpanch of Katana gram panchayat. Admitting to the problem, additional district magistrate (Kendrapada) Basant Kumar Rout, said the authorities have completed stone-packing to protect some of the riverside villages. “The administration will soon repair all the river embankments,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/kendrapada-villagers-live-in-fear-as-river-inches-closer-home/articleshow/77173752.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Vadodara||Life term for VMC clerk who killed wife, daughter in 2017||Vadodara: A clerk of Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) was sentenced to life imprisonment on Friday for killing his wife and daughter in October 2017. The court of additional sessions judge G D Pasi also fined accused Ragesh Raj (48) Rs 10,000 for his crime. According to details of the case, Raj, a clerk at ward 9 office of VMC, had stabbed his wife Daksha (42) on October 23, 2017 morning. Prior to the incident, the couple had been having verbal altercations for quite some time as Daksha wanted to meet her parents on the occasion of ‘Bhai Bij’. On the fateful day, the couple again had heated arguments following which Raj stabbed Daksha. When their 21-year-old daughter Mrunali intervened, Raj stabbed her as well. Hearing the screams, their two other children Parthvi and son Revant rushed to their help, Raj attacked them too, but they escaped with minor injuries. After committing the crime, Raj had surrendered before the police. Later, during the trial, he refuted the charges of murder against him. “The complainant and key witnesses were accused’s daughter and son so there were no possibilities of them making up a story. There were forensic and other evidences too, which proved that Raj had murdered his wife and daughter, and these were upheld by the court,” said additional public prosecutor D J Nalierwala. The court while convicting Raj also observed that instead of moving on over petty domestic quarrels, he kept a rift in his mind and committed an offence like a double murder. “No matter how serious differences between a couple are there, no person has a right to take away another person’s right,” the court observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/life-term-for-vmc-clerk-who-killed-wife-daughter-in-2017/articleshow/77172769.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Surat||SGCCI to hold summit on HR mgmt||Surat: The Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) will be organizing the first of its kind five-day-long global virtual conference on human resources management ‘HRM Summit-2020’ starting from August 3.SGCCI president Ketan Desai told TOI: “This is the first of its kind virtual conference on human resources being organized in a joint cooperation with the Impact Global organization in India. About 90 experts from India and around the world will be participating in the virtual summit and delivering their lectures on the HR related topics.”Desai added: “In eight decades of the SGCCI’s inception, this is the first international virtual conference. The global pandemic has brought the world closer on the virtual platform and we are the first chamber in the country to have organised a series of webinars starting from the lockdown period.”According to Desai, John Mattone, the personal coach of Steve Jobs of Apple, who is the world renowned top executive coach in intelligence leadership and authority, will be the keynote speaker at the virtual summit. Mrunal Shukla, programme and events head of the SGCCI said, “Some of the key topics to be covered in the conference include, ‘strategic HR and the future of work’, ‘global HR trends and practical’, ‘Leadership, organization, culture and effectiveness’ and ‘strategic workforce planning’.”Shukla said that the virtual conference would have about six virtual workshops, four breakout summits and over 25 online exhibition booths during the five days long event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sgcci-to-hold-summit-on-hr-mgmt/articleshow/77174096.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Surat||With 195 mm in 12 hours, Umarpada fills 50% of yearly rainfall quota||Surat: Parts of South Gujarat received heavy rainfall in the last 12 hours on Saturday 6am to 6pm with Umarpada of Surat district getting pounded heavily with 195 mm followed by Vaghai of Dang district with 101 mm.With incessant rain battering the Surat district for the past few days, Umarpada has already filled more than 50 percent of its average annual rainfall quota. According to sources, the South Gujarat region received about 38 percent of its average annual rainfall so far. According to the flood control room officials, Ahwa in Dang district received 30 mm and Subir received 20 mm rainfall during the same period.Parts of Bharuch district also received good rainfall on Saturday. Jambusar received 72 mm, while Netrang taluka of Bharuch district received 90 mm rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/with-195-mm-in-12-hours-umarpada-fills-50-of-yearly-rainfall-quota/articleshow/77174274.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Patna||Patna: Two private medical colleges to treat Covid patients||PATNA: Two private college and hospitals in state – Netaji Subhas Medical College and Hospital (NSMCH)-Bihta and Narayan Medical College and Hospital-Dehri – have been given permission by the state government to treat Covid patients. In fact, the NSMCH started admitting Covid patients on Saturday. A 100-bed isolation ward and ICU wards have been set up at NSMCH with ventilator facility. A dedicated medical team for treatment of Covid patients has also been pressed into service. Aditya Shekhar, administrative officer of NSMCH, said four Covid positive patients were admitted to the hospital on Saturday. One of them – a 75- year-old man from Bihta – died after admission. “The man was suffering from heart ailments and lung problems. The hospital will dispose of the body as per the protocol,” he said. Krishna Murarui, director in-charge of NSMCH, said, “The medical teams are working round-the-clock to treat the patients and there is no shortage of ventilators and oxygen at the hospital. All the required medicines and even a blood bank are available at the hospital.” Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, who inspected the facilities at NSMCH on Saturday, said the permission to admit Covid patients at two private college and hospitals was given on July 21. “These are partial Covid hospitals. The hospital in Dehri will start admitting patients from Monday onwards,” he said. Meanwhile, 10 private hospitals in Patna have started admitting Covid patients. These hospitals are Paras HMRI Hospital, Ruban Memorial Hospital, Atlantis Hospital, Pushpanjali Hospital, Medizone Hospital, Sri Murlidhar Memorial Hospital-Barh, Big Apollo Spectra Hospital, KP Sinha Memorial Superspecialty Hospital, Sri Raj Trust Hospital and Medipark Hospital. These private hospitals had been earlier asked to keep 20-25% beds reserved for Covid patients by creating the isolation wards. Patna DM Kumar Ravi, who held a virtual meeting with officials of private hospitals on Friday, asked them to admit only symptomatic Covid patients and refer the asymptomatic patients to isolation centres if they don’t have adequate facilities at home. Ravi told this newspaper that private hospitals are facing some internal issues as far as availability of medical staff is concerned. “We have asked the hospitals to send us the list of medical staff and doctors who are skipping duty. If the allegations of dereliction of duty are found true, action will be taken against them under the relevant sections of Epidemic Diseases Act,” he said. The DM added the hospitals have also been asked to treat emergency patients instead of referring them to government hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-private-medical-college-and-hospitals-to-treat-covid-patients/articleshow/77172355.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 26, 2020||Patna||Centre to Bihar: Ramp up testing with focus on containment zones||PATNA: The Union ministry of health and family welfare has asked Bihar and eight other states with high Covid caseloads to ramp up testing with special focus on containment zones. Instructions in this regard were issued during a virtual meeting convened by Union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba with chief secretaries and health secretaries of nine states on Friday. A statement issued by the Centre late on Friday evening said the nine states are driving the present spurt in active cases in the country. “Union government advises Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, UP, Bihar, Odisha, West Bengal, Assam and Jharkhand to urgently ramp up Covid-19 testing, strictly follow containment plan and augment health infrastructure for effective clinical management,” the Union health ministry tweeted on Friday night. As per a press statement issued by the Union health ministry and released by Press Information Bureau (PIB), state-specific strategy was reviewed with the officials of these states in the meeting. Factors leading to increase in coronavirus cases were also discussed. As per information shared by the Union health ministry, Gauba stressed on the need for prompt and proper delineation of containment zones, intensive contact tracing and house-to-house survey within containment zones to find out positive cases. “It was reiterated that sustained and aggressive testing was crucial for early identification of cases and prevention of spread of the virus,” read a part of the press statement issued by the Union health ministry. The nine states were asked to focus on availability of health infrastructure, quality care, proper patient management and effective ambulance management with zero refusal rate. Gauba stressed on the need to keep fatality rate low and asked the states to do the mapping of high-risk population, especially elderly people with comorbidities. Union ministry of health and family welfare further tweeted, “The attention of the states was drawn to the fact that early detection and timely clinical management is the key to contain the spread of Covid-19.” Last week, a three-member central team headed by joint secretary of health and family welfare Lav Agarwal had visited Bihar to take stock of Covid-19 situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/centre-to-bihar-ramp-up-testing-with-focus-on-containment-zones/articleshow/77172394.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 26, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Man kills neighbour to avenge wife’s murder, surrenders||PATNA: A 30-year-old daily wager killed his neighbour, who had allegedly murdered his wife on Friday evening, and surrendered before police with the weapon used in the crime. The incident took place at Sadma village under the Sadar police station area in Supaul district. According to police, one Pawan Sada (26) killed his neighbour, Pawan Devi, after an altercation over a trivial issue. Enraged at the killing of his wife, Lakshman Sada, attacked the accused with a sharp-edged weapon, leading to his death, in full public view. However, instead of running away, he waited for police to arrive and take him into custody. He also handed over the blood-stained weapon to the cops. Supaul Sadar police station SHO Dinanath Mandal told this newspaper that Lakshman was produced before the local court on Saturday and remanded in 14-days’ judicial custody. “Lakshman was working in a field when a fight broke out between his wife, Pawan, and his neighbour, Sada. She was attacked with a hard substance and died instantly. When Lakshman got to know about the incident, he rushed to the spot and avenged his wife’s murder,” the SHO said. He added, “We have arrested the accused and seized the weapon used in the crime. The investigating officer will submit the chargesheet in the court soon.” During investigation, it came to light that the local panchayat had intervened into the matter when a fight broke out between the two neighbours about 10 days ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-kills-neighbour-to-avenge-wifes-murder-surrenders/articleshow/77172612.cms||Ramashankar
July 26, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Jumbos’ duel, Gandak fury keep VTR wardens on toes||BETTIAH: With the Gandak gushing furiously into India through the barrage at Valmikinagar, floodwaters swirling through its course have also been marauding the jungles of the Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR) in West Champaran district. “About 60% of the Madanpur (forest) range has been inundated,” VTR deputy director-cum-DFO Gaurav Ojha told this newspaper, adding his team is on alert as wild animals and timber logs are known to be swept in from Nepal along with uprooted timber drifts. However, VTR officials had to grapple an in-house problem on Friday when Manikantha, one of the four tuskers brought from Karnataka to patrol the forests, got injured in a duel with Dron, a larger and heavier elephant. The two tuskers engaged in a duel not far from Triveni, confluence of the Narayani (Gandak), Sonaha and Tamsa, where the famous ‘Gaj-Grahyudh’ (elephant-crocodile duel) is said to have originated in folklore. That mythological tussle in the river is believed to have been concluded in Saran’s Harihar-Kshetra near Hajipur’s Konhara ghat, close to where the Gandak meets the Ganga, at the intervention of Lord Vishnu, the preserver. That duel was inconclusive and had ended in a ‘tie’ as the question ‘Kaun Haara’— name of the ghat on the Gandak in Vaishali — hung suspended. Friday’s real time duel, this time between two domesticated tuckers, was broken off by attending wardens though the smaller Manikantha sustained injuries. “Manikantha has been brought back to its pen at Kauleshwar and his wounds on the trunk, stomach and tusks are being treated,” range officer Mahesh Prasad said. Wardens had taken all four of VTR’s elephants — Drone, Manikantha, Balaji and Raja — to pasture on the higher grasslands near Jata Shankar, when the two among them got into a duel, DFO Gaurav Ojha said. “Even as we are on constant watch to rescue wild animals that get washed down from upstream Narayani from Nepal’s Chitwan park as rhinos too have in past years come downstream into VTR, we are particularly on a lookout to rescue smaller animals that cannot withstand strong river currents,” he said, adding VTR wardens have succeeded in rescuing 26 hog deer from the diara areas of the Gandak in neighbouring East Champaran. “The rescued hog deer have all been released in the Jata Shankar grasslands (of VTR),” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jumbos-duel-gandak-fury-keep-vtr-wardens-on-toes/articleshow/77172932.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
July 26, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Caught unawares by flight cancellation, flyers wait outside airport terminal||KOLKATA: Two planes flew in and out of Kolkata on Saturday, but there was no passenger on board. One was a non-scheduled flight that came from Kunming with 400 cartons of fabric and electronic goods, the other was a scheduled Blue Dart flight that had courier parcels in its hold. Cargo flights were the only ones that operated following the cancellation of all 50 passenger flights on Saturday. The scenario will be similar twice every week with the civil aviation ministry complying with the state’s call for a complete lockdown. However, the airport wasn’t without passengers. A number of people were booked on flights scheduled to fly out of Kolkata on Saturday spent the day and night sitting outside the terminal and occasionally running in search of food and water and calling up airlines’ customer care to inquire about rescheduled flights. “I was aware of the lockdown in Bengal and that is why I had started from my home in Katihar on Friday to reach the city before the lockdown began even though my flight to Bengaluru was on Saturday evening. But I had no clue that flights were suspended too. I got a text from the airline late on Friday night and I saw it even later, when I was just an hour away from Kolkata on an interstate bus. On reaching the airport around 4am, I tried to check in at a hotel. When that did not happen, I was forced to sit on the floor outside the airport for the entire day. The airlines have provided me with a ticket for Sunday morning,” said Md Touqir, a teacher at a Bengaluru school. Also at the airport was a group of friends whose journey home to Silchar for the first time in two years was stalled because of the flight suspension. They had to spend two nights sleeping on the road outside the airport. “We had taken a late-evening flight from Bengaluru and reached the airport around 11pm. We had thought of spending the night at the airport and then taking the Saturday morning flight to Silchar. But then we learnt that all flights had been cancelled. We ran to the SpiceJet counter that rescheduled us on Sunday’s flight. But we had no place to go in the mean time. The CISF asked us to leave the airport and cops asked us to sleep in a corner,” said Kamrul Haq, who is an electrician in a Bengaluru firm. The decision to suspend flights in Kolkata on lockdown days came after the state requested the civil aviation ministry to restrict flights on Saturday and Wednesday, the two scheduled total lockdown days, and the ones that will follow. The state has said it will announce the two lockdown days on the first working day of every week. “Back in Bengaluru, we have been allotted a maximum of 15 days’ work per month. Hence, I thought I’d visit my family as I have to join work on the third week of next month. I didn’t know about the lockdown in Bengal. No food was available on the airport premises and we were advised to not step out to the main road to avoid being prosecuted for violating protocol. Finally, cops helped us get food from their canteen,” said Rehan Uddin, who works as a security guard in a Bengaluru firm. Around 42 flights were scheduled to take off from Kolkata next Wednesday. But with no flights in operation due to the lockdown, airport authorities heightened the sanitisation and clean-up activities inside the terminal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/caught-unawares-by-flight-cancellation-flyers-wait-outside-airport-terminal/articleshow/77174644.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
July 26, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Sherghati, Tekari get special Covid care centres||GAYA: In view of the surging cases of coronavirus, special Covid care centres have been set up at Sherghati and Tekari, two of the four subdivisional headquarters in Gaya district. The Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College and Hospital (ANMMCH) falls under the administrative jurisdiction of Gaya sadar subdivision. According to Gaya district magistrate (DM) Abhishek Singh, the Covid care centres will provide 24X7 medical assistance to the symptomatic patients. The Sherghati facility has 75 beds and the Tekari centre has 44. “Besides, an institutional isolation facility with 50 beds is being developed at the indoor stadium located on the premises of Gandhi Maidan. More beds will be added later,” the DM told this newspaper. The number of active corona cases crossed the 800-mark in Gaya on Saturday. Meanwhile, as soon as news surfaced that ventilators acquired for the proposed Trauma centre were not being used, the ANMMCH authorities seemed to go in damage control mode. “The unused ventilators are being installed. Laying of oxygen pipeline for the purpose has begun and is likely to be completed in 10 days,” hospital superintendent Dr Harichand Hari said and added, “Once the ventilators are installed, the capacity of the level III ward will go up from the existing nine beds to 25.” Those, who need ventilators, are kept in the level III ward. CO dies due to corona: The death of Dilip Kumar, circle officer (CO) of Gaya town block, has shocked many in the administrative circles. The CO was actively engaged in Covid-related field duty three-four days ago. After developing symptoms, Dilip was first admitted to the ANMMCH and later shifted to the All India Institute Of Medical Sciences in Patna where he breathed his last on Friday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sherghati-tekari-get-special-covid-care-centres/articleshow/77172736.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Bamu to set up virology department||AURANGABAD: Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) has decided to set up a separate department for virology. A proposal to this effect will be submitted to the state government soon, an official release said on Saturday. “The field of Virology is regaining huge attention during the current pandemic. There lies tremendous scope for research and project activities in this field. Bamu still does not have a dedicated department for virology and the same will be set up shortly,” Bamu public relations officer Sanjay Shinde said. He said the proposal to the state government will detail the required manpower and funding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/bamu-to-set-up-virology-department/articleshow/77173748.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Surat||Violating home isolation can invite FIR, warns Surat civic body||SURAT: People who have been asked to stay home quarantined will face legal action if they are caught venturing out of their houses, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has warned. The decision has been taken in wake of the Covid-19 situation spiralling out of hand in the city and residents giving social distancing a go-by. “People advised home isolation should stay indoors for 14 days. FIR will be lodged against those caught venturing out. In many cases, patients are discharged early and are asked to stay in isolation for 14 days and they should strictly follow this protocol,’‘ Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner, told TOI. “They are likely to spread infection and put others at risk,” Pani added. Over the last 10 days or so, the number of Covid-19 cases are on the rise in Rander and Athwa zones. People should avoid going to these areas and people coming from these areas should not be asked to come to work at your place because these are hotspot areas and people coming from these areas might be infected,’‘ Pani added. Talking about plasma therapy, Pani said that it has given encouraging results in 162 patients till date. In Rajkot, if Covdi-19 positive adviced home isolation violates rules he or she is sent to the covid care centers. “There is provision of FIR and we had filed four in the initial stages, but thereafter no incidents of violation has been reported in Rajkot,” said Rajkot municipal commissioner Udit Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/violating-home-isolation-can-invite-fir-warns-smc/articleshow/77174056.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Kolkata||Fifth Kolkata cop dies of Covid-19; HQ wants barracks protected||KOLKATA: The city police lost its fifth cop — constable Krishnakanta Burman — to Covid late on Friday. The 50-year-old who was posted at Hastings police station has become the second policeman from the south division to die of the viral infection. All the others, including OC Abhigyan Mukherjee who passed away on Friday morning, were from the traffic department. According to Lalbazar, Burman was originally from Cooch Behar and was staying at the Hastings police barracks. He had developed Covid symptoms and was admitted to a hospital at Mullickbazar. When his condition worsened a couple of days ago, he was shifted to a hospital off EM Bypass, where he passed away. Kolkata Police has expressed condolences on their social media handles.  Commissioner Anuj Sharma took to Twitter on Saturday, asking citizens to help cops maintain social distancing. He asked people to wear masks and cooperate with cops. The incident has again led the senior Lalbazar officers to ask OCs and ACPs to ensure that the barracks located next to police stations are protected. Besides regular sanitization, it has been asked that no non-resident cop should enter the barracks unless absolutely necessary. “We have carried out large-scale swab tests of policemen at Hastings police station besides ensuring that those who had contact him are quarantined,” said DCP (south) Meeraz Khalid. An order issued barely a fortnight ago has been revised and all cops have been asked to follow the rules. At present, there are 719 Covid cases in Kolkata Police. About 650 cops have recovered. Sharma had wanted to know the possible reasons for the outbreak in a select few police stations. “He reminded us that the barracks have to be taken care of since it’s where the Covid warriors stay. Lalbazar has allocated a separate budget for barracks. The fact that many family members of cops have also been diagnosed with Covid is keeping us a bit worried,” said an officer. Lalbazar has asked all police stations to concentrate on and implement access control, thermal screening, wearing of masks, social distancing and proper hygiene, along with partitioned zones for outsiders and dedicated changing rooms. Some cops also said they were saddened by the reaction from a section of netizens who used the cops’ social media platforms to mock some of the departed Covid warriors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/5th-city-cop-dies-of-cov-hq-wants-barracks-protected/articleshow/77174649.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Panel suggests urgent repair of garbage plant machinery||CHANDIGARH: A committee formed to assess the condition of the city’s lone garbage processing plant and make suggestions for improving its functioning has come up with several recommendations, including urgent repair of its machinery. The municipal corporation (MC) is currently running the plant after taking over from Jai Prakash Associates (JP) Limited over a month back. In its report, the civic body-constituted six-member panel has suggested that the quality of output of the compost manufacturing plant be tested by experts from the Punjab Agriculture University, Ludhiana. The committee also felt that a separate account should be opened for the garbage processing plant for better monitoring of various expenditures. “Around 25,000 metric tons of legacy waste is currently lying at the plant, which needs to be shifted to the dumping ground. As a large quantity of compost and RDF (refuse-derived fuel) is also stocked at the plant, hindering the garbage processing work due to paucity of space, these need to be sold off soon,” the report said. Until the plant becomes self-sustainable, the office and other miscellaneous expenses should be borne by the civic body, the panel suggested. After being approved by the mayor and senior officers of the corporation, the report will be tabled in the general house meeting for discussion and approval by the members. Upon their nod, the recommendations will be implemented.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/panel-suggests-urgent-repair-of-garbage-plant-machinery/articleshow/77174599.cms||Deepak Yadav
July 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Curfew on, but illegal miners own the night||MOHALI: At a time when people are not allowed to move out of their homes and cops have all the time to catch miscreants, miners are brazenly digging up the earth illegally, highlighting the police-politician-criminal nexus. Anti-mining crusaders of Khizrabad, Derabassi and Mullanpur have alleged Illegal mining is rampant during nights, when the entire district is under curfew. Bhag Singh of Abhipur, Sher Mohammad Khan of Khizrabad and Sardara Singh from Handesra (Derabassi) who were provided security cover for objecting to illegal mining, said the orders of a crackdown on illegal miners are just an eyewash as politicians themselves are the backbone of illegal mining after sunset. Bhag Singh, Sher Mohammad and Sardar Singh said, “We have been fighting to save our environment from the clutches of illegal miners, but the activity is backed by politicians. They issue statements to curb illegal mining during the day but favour them at night. We have been attacked and threatened for raising our voices against illegal miners.” “At night, can hear the roar of engines of tipper trucks and tractor trolleys carrying illegally mined earth, but there is no one to spot them even when the lockdown is enforced.” They said the extent of illegal mining in Derabassi can be gauged from the fact that land around the power transmission poles has been dug up to such an extent that the transformer stands at a height of 55 foot from the dug-up ground level. Bhag Singh, Sher Mohammad and Sardar Singh alleged political aides of leaders are facilitating illegal mining in the district. “What is the meaning of the orders, when their own people are indulged in illegal mining. They are making a fortune out of the environment loss,” they alleged. In one year, the depth of craters has increased by 10 foot and stand 40 foot deep. Illegal mining is going on unabated in Khizrabad, Mullanpur, Parol, Majri, Abhipur, Lubhangarh, Tiur, Mianpur Changran, Kubaheri, Gochar, Kansala, Bahalpur Tiprian and Kharar areas of Mohali. It is not just the Kandi area covering Mullanpur, Khizrabad, Parol, Majri and Kharar marred with illegal mining, the menace is widely spread in Derabassi, Lalru and Zirakpur too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/curfew-on-but-illegal-miners-own-the-night/articleshow/77174602.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
July 26, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: 10 months after girl’s death, dad kills youth||BAGEPALLI: Ten months after his 17-year-old daughter killed herself, a man from Chikkaballpura took revenge and stabbed a youth 17 times, holding him responsible for her death. Venkateshappa, who runs a small business, has been arrested. The attack took place at Yagavamuddalakane village of Bagepalli taluk on Friday night. Harish, a painter, was returning to his village from Bengaluru when he was hacked to death by Venkateshappa and Ganesh, a labourer. Both are from the same village. Sources said Harish had befriended Venkateshappa’s daughter a year ago. He was reportedly enraged as the latter would often roam around their residence. After Venkateshappa complained to police about this, Harish was warned and let off. Two months later, the girl consumed poison at home and died. Venkateshappa blamed Harish for her death . Around 9pm on Friday, Harish was returning home on a two-wheeler when the accused reportedly tied a rope on the road and waited for him. As he stopped on seeing the rope, the duo attacked him with a knife. An angry Venkateshappa stabbed him, leading to his death.  There was tension in the village after the murder when Harish’s relatives ransacked Venkateshappa’s house and set it on fire. Police rushed to the spot and brought the situat ion under control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/10-months-after-girls-death-dad-kills-youth/articleshow/77178107.cms||Ranganath Krishnaswamy
July 26, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: 10 months after girl’s death, dad kills youth||BAGEPALLI: Ten months after his 17-year-old daughter killed herself, a man from Chikkaballpura took revenge and stabbed a youth 17 times, holding him responsible for her death. Venkateshappa, who runs a small business, has been arrested. The attack took place at Yagavamuddalakane village of Bagepalli taluk on Friday night. Harish, a painter, was returning to his village from Bengaluru when he was hacked to death by Venkateshappa and Ganesh, a labourer. Both are from the same village. Sources said Harish had befriended Venkateshappa’s daughter a year ago. He was reportedly enraged as the latter would often roam around their residence. After Venkateshappa complained to police about this, Harish was warned and let off. Two months later, the girl consumed poison at home and died. Venkateshappa blamed Harish for her death . Around 9pm on Friday, Harish was returning home on a two-wheeler when the accused reportedly tied a rope on the road and waited for him. As he stopped on seeing the rope, the duo attacked him with a knife. An angry Venkateshappa stabbed him, leading to his death.  There was tension in the village after the murder when Harish’s relatives ransacked Venkateshappa’s house and set it on fire. Police rushed to the spot and brought the situat ion under control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/10-months-after-girls-death-dad-kills-youth/articleshow/77178109.cms||Ranganath Krishnaswamy
July 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: 10 months after girl’s death, dad kills youth||BAGEPALLI: Ten months after his 17-year-old daughter killed herself, a man from Chikkaballpura took revenge and stabbed a youth 17 times, holding him responsible for her death. Venkateshappa, who runs a small business, has been arrested. The attack took place at Yagavamuddalakane village of Bagepalli taluk on Friday night. Harish, a painter, was returning to his village from Bengaluru when he was hacked to death by Venkateshappa and Ganesh, a labourer. Both are from the same village. Sources said Harish had befriended Venkateshappa’s daughter a year ago. He was reportedly enraged as the latter would often roam around their residence. After Venkateshappa complained to police about this, Harish was warned and let off. Two months later, the girl consumed poison at home and died. Venkateshappa blamed Harish for her death . Around 9pm on Friday, Harish was returning home on a two-wheeler when the accused reportedly tied a rope on the road and waited for him. As he stopped on seeing the rope, the duo attacked him with a knife. An angry Venkateshappa stabbed him, leading to his death.  There was tension in the village after the murder when Harish’s relatives ransacked Venkateshappa’s house and set it on fire. Police rushed to the spot and brought the situat ion under control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/10-months-after-girls-death-dad-kills-youth/articleshow/77174604.cms||Ranganath Krishnaswamy
July 26, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: 10 months after girl’s death, dad kills youth||BAGEPALLI: Ten months after his 17-year-old daughter killed herself, a man from Chikkaballpura took revenge and stabbed a youth 17 times, holding him responsible for her death. Venkateshappa, who runs a small business, has been arrested. The attack took place at Yagavamuddalakane village of Bagepalli taluk on Friday night. Harish, a painter, was returning to his village from Bengaluru when he was hacked to death by Venkateshappa and Ganesh, a labourer. Both are from the same village. Sources said Harish had befriended Venkateshappa’s daughter a year ago. He was reportedly enraged as the latter would often roam around their residence. After Venkateshappa complained to police about this, Harish was warned and let off. Two months later, the girl consumed poison at home and died. Venkateshappa blamed Harish for her death . Around 9pm on Friday, Harish was returning home on a two-wheeler when the accused reportedly tied a rope on the road and waited for him. As he stopped on seeing the rope, the duo attacked him with a knife. An angry Venkateshappa stabbed him, leading to his death.  There was tension in the village after the murder when Harish’s relatives ransacked Venkateshappa’s house and set it on fire. Police rushed to the spot and brought the situat ion under control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/10-months-after-girls-death-dad-kills-youth/articleshow/77178110.cms||Ranganath Krishnaswamy
July 26, 2020||Shimla||Transferred, staffer moves Himachal Pradesh HC, gets FIR||SHIMLA: The Himachal Pradesh high court has ordered an FIR against a state government employee, who had approached it against his transfer, and directed authorities to ensure the staffer completed his tenure in the new place of posting at Bharmaur in Chamba district. The court observed that the employee was using his clout to remain posted in one place and, despite his earlier petition being rejected, he managed to get himself transferred back to Karsog after having been remained in Shimla for a brief period and had been serving at Karsog division since August 23, 2014. Vide an order dated July 11 last year, the employee was ordered to be transferred to Bharmaur division. The division bench of Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and Justice Jyotsna Rewal Dua, in a recent judgment, said it appeared the petitioner had not learnt his lessons well despite strictures passed against him by the court in an earlier writ petition, CWP No1678 of 2013 titled John Gupta vs State of HP and others, decided on April 29, 2013. It said like in the present case also, the petitioner assailed his transfer order and court after, which came down heavily upon the petitioner, vide its order dated April 29, 2013 for remaining at a place of his choice. Court said petitioner John Gupta, a senior assistant who was under transfer from Karsog to Bharmaur, remained posted outside Karsog only from April 1, 2013, to August 22, 2014, and then again got himself posted at Karsog. “This clearly establishes the clout being exercised by the petitioner. Our conclusion is fortified from the fact that even after rejection of CWP No 1678 of 2013 the petitioner still managed to get himself transferred back to Karsog after having been remained in Shimla for a brief period and is serving at Karsog division for the last about six years from 23.08.2014 and was then vide order dated 11.07.2019 ordered to be transferred to Bharmour division,” court added. HPPWD engineer-in-chief had then ordered to retain John Gupta in HPPWD Karsog division up to April 30, 2020, till the academic session of his children. “The official shall join his duties in HPPWD Bharmour division after expiry of the said period,” order added. During the course of hearing, advocate general on instructions from the department informed the court that speaking order by way of memorandum that was prepared was never put up before the competent authority by the then superintendent grade-I, who retired in May this year and, resultantly, the petitioner continued to serve at Karsog till date, even though he could have at best be retained at Karsog upto April 2020. Court said in such circumstances, it cannot be oblivious to the fact that since the speaking order (memorandum) pertained only to the petitioner, therefore, it could be possible that the petitioner alongwith concerned superintendent could be responsible for concealing the memorandum. “However, we cannot jump to any conclusion and would leave it to the investigation to be conducted by directing the respondents to lodge an FIR against the petitioner and concerned superintendent with police station, Shimla,” it added.The court said it was fit for a criminal case to be lodged against the petitioner as also then superintendent grade-I .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/transferred-staffer-moves-hc-gets-fir/articleshow/77175848.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Gurupriya bridges divide in ‘swabhiman anchal’||Koraput: Exactly two years ago on July 26, 2018, the long-standing dream of the residents of Malkangiri’s cut-off area was fulfilled when chief minister Naveen Patnaik inaugurated a bridge over the Gurupriya river. It connected more than 20,000 people across 151 villages (Balimela reservoir) under the Chitrakonda block to the mainland in Malkangiri district. With the efforts of the district administration, development has reached the remotest corners of the area. The region that was once identified as the cut-off area is now known as swabhiman anchal. Officials said all-round development of the region was conceptualised under the socio-economic transformation and upliftment (SETU) programme, launched soon after the inauguration of the 910-metre-long bridge. “The Gurupriya bridge has facilitated the construction of several kilometres of roads inside swabhiman anchal. Bus and ambulance services have been introduced in the area,” collector (Malkangiri) Manish Agarwal said, adding that the administration has dug more than 250 tube-wells, electrified villages and strengthened the primary education system and healthcare in the area on a priority basis. MBBS doctors have been posted at Jodambo and Janbai primary health centres. Mobile health units are being deployed to provide better healthcare. “We plan to construct a teachers’ residential complex inside the anchal to ensure that the academic activities are not hit,” the collector said. While several projects under the MGNREGA are on in full swing, the release of more than one crore fish fingerlings into the Balimela reservoir has strengthened the tribal economy of the region. “Turmeric cultivation is being promoted in the area. It has also been decided to convert Malkangiri into a hub of turmeric production,”Agarwal added. The region, which was once considered as a liberated zone of the Maoists, is now witnessing both development and security enhancement. While Janbai, Bodopoda, Jantapai, Hantalguda and Jodambo have got one BSF company each for anti-Maoist operations in the area, a police station was inaugurated by Odisha DGP Abhay at Jodambo last month. “The swabhiman anchal is our focus area and all security-related measures have been taken to ensure that the people residing in the area have access to all socio-economic facilities,” DIG (south-western range) Shafeen Ahamed K said. Surrounded by the Balimela reservoir on three sides and Andhra Pradesh on the fourth, the swabhimaan anchal was ruled by the Maoists once. Boats were the only mode of communication to the place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/gurupriya-bridges-divide-in-swabhiman-anchal/articleshow/77173765.cms||Satyanarayan Pattnaik
July 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rajasthan jail for 2 blasts accused||Ahmedabad: The special court hearing the serial blasts case gave permission earlier this week to two accused persons for their shifting to a Rajasthan prison. The order came even as the trial has entered its last round 12 years after 56 persons had lost their lives in the terror strike on July 26, 2008. Designated judge A R Patel permitted shifting of Mohammed Saif Shaikh and Saifur Rehman Ansari to a jail in Rajasthan after a chief judicial magistrate in Jaipur issued a production warrant for the two in connection with an offence registered against them in Jaipur. The Ahmedabad court granted permission because their statements had been already recorded under provisions of Section 313 of the CrPC. After recording of further statements of all 78 accused persons, the court will start hearing final arguments in this case. The serial blasts case is the only case in which trial is taking place in courtroom with special permission from the high court looking at the time-bound trial ordered by the Supreme Court. In this case, all the accused persons are behind bars, including those who were arrested later, except two persons. Naved Qadri was granted temporary bail in July 2018 on health grounds and the court has extended his bail period. The second accused to have come out of prison in this case was Ayaz Saiyed, who was released on regular bail by the Gujarat high court last month. This happened after Saiyed turned approver in the case. As many as 19 bombs had rocked the city of Ahmedabad on July 26 killing 56 persons and as many as 200 others sustained injuries. The hospitals – Civil Hospital and L G Hospital – were also targeted. Thirty-seven persons lost their lives in a single blast that took place outside the trauma centre in the Civil Hospital. An outfit called Indian Mujahideen claimed responsibility for the terror strike. The city police cracked the case and detained Zahid Shaikh a few days later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rajasthan-jail-for-2-blasts-accused/articleshow/77174620.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Lawyer stabbed to death, brother held||AURANGABAD: A 53-year-old lawyer on Friday morning was allegedly stabbed to death by his elder brother over a monetary dispute at the deceased's residence in Garkheda area. Jawahar Nagar police nabbed the accused within four hours of the incident coming to light. The deceased has been identified as Suryaprakash Ramnath Thakur, a resident of B-wing Paritosh Vihar, Ashoknagar of Garkheda area in the city and the accused has been identified as Vedprakash (58), a resident of Paithan. As per the preliminary information, the accused reached his brother’s house at around 8.30 am, and sought Rs 2 lakh from him against his share in a plot jointly owned by some of the family members. While a heated argument began, the victim’s wife Asha (32) stepped out of the house to get milk to prepare tea. Minutes later, Asha, who is a nurse, heard cries and rushed to the flat to find that Suryaprakash was stabbed and Vedrprakash had fled the scene. After the incident was brought to the notice of the police, detection branch PSI Bharat Pachole reached the spot and rushed the injured to a private hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries. Soon, the police team gathered evidence like footages from the cameras installed in the apartment. The accused was nabbed from Paithan in the afternoon. Jawahar Nagar inspector Santosh Patil said based on the complaint lodged by the deceased’s wife, an offence has been registered against the accused and he will be produced before the court on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/lawyer-stabbed-to-death-brother-held/articleshow/77173764.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Rape accused weds survivor, granted bail||Cuttack: The Orissa high court has granted bail to a rape accused in view of the submission that he and the victim, who is a major now, have got married. A single-judge bench of justice B P Routray heard the bail application filed by the accused in connection with cases registered against him under the IPC and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, on video on Friday. The petitioner was initially taken in custody after his arrest on February 13 in connection with a special POCSO court registered at Handapa police station and consequently pending in the special POCSO court in Angul. On June 2, another single-judge bench had ordered the release of the petitioner on interim bail for 30 days after his counsel submitted that the victim was a major by age and both of them were ready to marry each other. On Friday, the petitioner’s counsel filed on his behalf an affidavit that stated that during the period of his interim bail he had married the woman and she is now residing as the wife of the petitioner in his house. Considering the affidavit, justice Routray directed the release of the petitioner on bail in the case on terms and conditions fixed by the trial court. The petitioner — Gyanaranjan Behera — who was on interim bail had surrendered and was in custody since July 6, the affidavit said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/rape-accused-weds-survivor-granted-bail/articleshow/77173759.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
July 26, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Mid-day meal scheme not in a mess’||Chandigarh: Punjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla dismissed the report on foodgrains and amount for cooking cost not being provided to mid-day meal scheme beneficiary school children in the state as false. Singla said on Saturday that the Punjab government distributed foodgrains up to June 30 and cooking cost up to May 31 among 15.79 lakh beneficiary students in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Union ministry of human resource development after the sudden imposition of Covid-19 lockdown. The school education minister said the cooking cost amounting to Rs 37.26 crore has also been released. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mid-day-meal-scheme-not-in-a-mess/articleshow/77175867.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Covaxin human trial 2nd phase at PGIMS from today||Rohtak: A week after human trial of Covaxin — the country’s foremost vaccine candidate for Covid-19 — started at Rohtak’s Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), it got approval from Data Safety Monitoring Board to start the second phase of the trial from Saturday. The board studied the reports of all people who underwent trial and after satisfaction with the progress, permission was given to initiate the second phase, said Dr Savita Verma, who is also the principal investigator of the study. Covaxin was given to volunteers in Rohtak on July 17 and after it showed no adverse impact the second phase of the trial was given the go-ahead.  Dr Verma said till date PGIMS Rohtak has administered covaxin to 26 subjects. Covaxin has been developed by the Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical firm Bharat Biotech in collaboration with National Institute of Virology (NIV) and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). In the second phase, they would conduct trials on more number of subjects upon finding their samples as per criteria but the number is not fixed. PGIMS pharmacology department professor Ramesh Verma said in the second phase of trial-1, Covaxin would be given to 30 more new subjects and their second dose would follow after two weeks. The effect of the vaccine are being assessed for two things — generation of antibodies after administration of the vaccine and any adverse reaction caused by it, said the professor. “All the subjects at PGIMS Rohtak who voluntarily came forward are in the pink of their health and fine,” Dr Verma said, adding that doctors were calling all the people part of the trial twice in the day and inquiring about their health. On how long it would take to prove the efficacy of the vaccine, Dr Verma said blood samples of the trial subjects would be taken after 28 days to assess how many antibodies they had developed against the coronavirus. “If the antibodies are produced in good numbers, it would prove that the vaccine is doing its job perfectly. The first part ie it does not have any side effect is also proved with no adverse effect reported so far on the subjects,” the two professors added. Rohtak has 150 volunteers who want to take part in the trial for the vaccine. “In the screening process, the volunteers who are healthy and do n’t have chronic illness or diabetes like diseases would be given a chance to be part of the trial process,” they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covaxin-human-trial-2nd-phase-at-pgims-from-today/articleshow/77175880.cms||Sat Singh
July 26, 2020||Dehradun||Physical endurance, knowledge of Mandarin must in manning Indo-China border: ITBP Academy chief||Mussoorie: What does it take to be part of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), India’s border patrol organization manning numerous high-altitude outposts along 3,488 km of Indo-China Border from Karakoram Pass in Ladakh to Jachep La in Arunachal Pradesh? Not only high physical endurance and proficiency in mountain warfare, but also a basic knowledge of Mandarin, which is a key skill for the officers and jawans of ITBP, revealed PS Papta, director of ITBP Academy, Mussoorie. Speaking to TOI on Saturday, Papta said, “Mandarin has always been an important part of the foundation course curriculum. Our officers as well as jawans are imparted a basic knowledge of Mandarin, which enables them to understand and effectively respond to the Chinese.” According to Papta, ITBP personnel at the academy were being taught Mandarin for the last four years, but the fact came to light only after the Galwan Valley face-off. “We have an in-house faculty to teach Mandarin. The academy has also developed specific booklets in Hindi and English for the purpose,” Papta said. The academy director added that Tibetan is also taught at the academy. Papta said that considering the harsh terrain ITBP personnel operate in, physical endurance has always been a key component of training at the academy. “Apart from foundational courses, we organize special ones on a regular basis even for senior officers, focusing on physical fitness and endurance,” he said. He added that the ITBP was well prepared to deal with any Chinese offensive along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). “We are doing whatever is needed to execute the guidelines of the Government of India. In fact, we are dealing with the Chinese almost every day,” Papta said. ITBP was formed in 1962 to ensure security along the Indo-Tibetan border. The academy at Mussoorie was set up more than 10 years later, in 1978, to train the officers and jawans of the force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/physical-endurance-knowledge-of-mandarin-must-in-manning-indo-china-border-itbp-academy-chief/articleshow/77173775.cms||Anmol Jain
July 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Sound doctrine must for strong Army||As India celebrates the 21st Kargil Vijay Diwas in Western Ladakh today, the Army’s eyes will be focused on the confrontation in Eastern Ladakh. Questions, similar to those raised during the Kargil War, are being heard on our intelligence capability, foreign policy choices, and military preparedness. At present, these issues could be kept aside, and space given to the government and the Army to handle the ongoing stand-off, but a subsequent postmortem is also necessary. This future review should be a holistic assessment of the complete national security architecture, including our military capability. We tend to equate military capability with pure numbers of men and equipment, and each decision by the Ministry of Defence to procure some piece of military hardware is hailed as a game-changer. Equipment is essential, but the military capability is much more than adding guns, ships, and aircraft. A RAND Corporation report title ‘Measuring Military Capability’ states, “A country may provide its military with generous budgets and large cadres of manpower, but if the military’s doctrine is misguided, the training ineffective, the leadership unschooled, or the organization inappropriate, military capability will suffer.” It is now accepted that given the state of the Indian economy, the defence budget will not see any massive infusion of funds. This comes at a time when our borders are extremely volatile and unlikely to see an improvement soon. The situation dictates that we take a hard look at how we can bring in operational efficiencies by changes in our doctrine and organisational structures, and by a realistic assessment of the capabilities required to fight our wars. There is an urgent need for a joint warfighting doctrine that synergises the capabilities of the three services. There is a lot of discussions these days about how the Indian Navy could be utilised to put pressure on China in the Indian Ocean as a counter to what is happening in Ladakh. Former Navy Chief, Admiral Arun Prakash, has correctly called this a “viable strategy”, but to be completely effective, it has to have the weight of serious tri-service discussions behind it. The joint doctrine must also cover a whole range of conflict scenarios. Our focus is currently on all out wars, as witnessed by the Army’s “cold start doctrine”. This envisages rapid and massive offensives into Pakistan to achieve victory in a short, swift war. Similarly, a full-scale mobilisation of the Indian Army precedes any conflict on our northern borders. This is an all-or-nothing approach to military operations. In fact, a major war between the nuclear-armed countries in South Asia is the least likely possibility. The military must be prepared for various scenarios — selective cross-border strikes, limited conflict, and military coercion. Apart from well thought out battle plans to deal with all contingencies, this preparation will also trigger an intellectual discussion on crucial issues like escalation control as well as escalation dominance. It is also vital that the political leadership show greater involvement in the preparation of the military doctrine. Ultimately, the application of military power is for the achievement of a political objective. Giving a free hand to the military is fine at the tactical level, but the overall strategy must have the stamp of the country’s leader. The need for joint warfighting organisational structures is an escapable requirement but stands mired in inter-service differences. These differences should be narrowed. The establishment of ‘Theatre Commands’ must be done on priority and as part of a comprehensive plan backed by all three services. The tendency to announce proposals in the media, before they have even been debated within the service headquarters, will only harden positions and make restructuring difficult. We could also consider integrating the Eastern Naval Command and the Andaman and Nicobar Command into one command. The current arrangement of the Eastern Naval Command under the Navy Chief and the Andaman and Nicobar Command administered by the Chief of Defence Staff will adversely impact integrated naval operations in the South-East Indian Ocean. Our excessive focus on the number of Army divisions, fighter squadrons, and navy ships will need to be replaced by capabilities that maximise our geographical advantage and neutralise China’s superiority in specific areas. The Navy needs to enhance its maritime domain awareness in the Indian Ocean, coupled with long range precision strike capability by air and naval assets. The Air Force should acquire systems for stand-off attacks against strategic targets in Tibet through manned and unmanned aerial systems and enhance its ground air defence to protect strategic assets from ballistic and cruise missile attacks. The Army must transform into a leaner and more agile force capable of rapid application in the mountains along our Northern borders. Additional tactical helicopter lift will enable the swift relocation of troops and obviate the need to have large standing forces all along the border. The weaknesses in our intelligence and surveillance along the border with China have been exposed and should be urgently addressed. Finally, significant capability has to be built up in electronic warfare, cyber, and space, where the Chinese have an overwhelming advantage. These are areas that transcend single-service responsibility and have escaped our attention but will be battle winning factors in future wars. The suggested improvements in capability are by no means a comprehensive list, which could be drawn up after a more detailed assessment. Winston Churchill famously said, “Never let a good crisis go to waste.” Facing both financial stress and an assertive China, military leadership must swiftly move to undertake wide ranging reforms. (The writer is former Army Commander, Northern Command )||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sound-doctrine-must-for-strong-army/articleshow/77175881.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 17-year-old girl hangs self at home||HYDERABAD: A 17-year-old girl hanged herself at her Chaderghat home on Saturday upset over her family’s refusal to accept her relationship with a boy. The girl was doing household work and got into a relationship with a boy from Talab Katta three years ago. Chaderghat SI Chandra Sekhar Reddy said she took the extreme step when her parents were away. Recently, her parents found out about her affair, police said and the girl went into a depression. “Even though the boy is from the same community, the family did not accept the relationship as he is jobless. Her parents were totally against the relationship and kept a close eye on her,” the SI said. The girl was a school dropout. No suicide note was found. A suspicious death case was registered and the body was handed over to the family after conducting an autopsy at Osmania General Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/17-year-old-girl-hangs-self-at-home/articleshow/77175882.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Kanpur||Kidnapper seeks ransom in Kanpur Dehat, audio clip goes viral||Kanpur: In an audio clip related to the kidnapping of a man from Bhognipur area of Kanpur Dehat that has gone viral on social media on Saturday, the kidnapper could be heard calling the man’s cousin and telling him to arrange a ransom of Rs 20 lakh ‘in five days’ otherwise his brother would be killed. The kidnapped man is one Brijesh, who works at National Dharamkanta in Chaura area under the limits of Bhognipur Kotwali police station of the district. He was kidnapped on July 17, and subsequently a case was registered under relevant sections of IPC in this regard. According to police, Brijesh, a resident of Chaura village of Bhognipur had gone missing while he had gone to perform duty at a Dharamkanta located at Kanpur-Jhansi highway on July 17 night. “As per the man’s cousin Sarvesh, when Brijesh did not return home on July 17, he went to Dharamkanta the next day to inquire about his whereabouts, but in vain,” police said. Sarvesh thereafter tried to contact Brijesh on his mobile phone, but the call was answered by some one else who sought Rs 20 lakh as ransom from him within five days for the safe release of Brijesh,” said police further. Sarvesh thereafter informed the police when the person who had received call said he would call them again after five days. Inspector Bhognipur Kotwali Dharmendra Singh said, “A case of kidnapping has been registered following a complaint. We have shared the details of this man with other police stations. So far, he has not been traced. All efforts are being made to trace him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kidnapper-seeks-ransom-in-kanpur-dehat-audio-clip-goes-viral/articleshow/77175196.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Grandpa elopes with teen, Gujarat high court orders FIR||AHMEDABAD: An FIR has been filed against Shovanji Thakor, a man with grandchildren, who has eloped with a teenage girl from a village in Siddhpur taluka. The FIR was filed on Thursday, following the Gujarat high court’s direction to Patan police. The Kakoshi police station filed a complaint against Thakor for the abduction of the girl. The girl’s family had filed a habeas corpus petition stating that Thakor has grandchildren and despite their complaint about the abduction and their fear of sexual abuse, police were not taking any action. Police had not even registered an FIR, said the petitioners’ advocate Kishore Prajapati. After the HC ordered Patan police to bring the girl before it, cops launched a search operation. However, they could not find her and the Patan SP (superintendent of police) informed the judges that Thakor might have taken the girl to Rajasthan. The SP said that Thakor was not using his cellphone and was not in contact with his parents, wife, or children. The SP informed the court that several police teams have been dispatched to trace the girl, but the search has become difficult due to the pandemic. He requested the court to grant two more weeks and said that a deputy superintendent of police is investigating the case and the efforts will yield results. The family had moved the HC last month after their efforts to lodge an FIR against Thakor failed. They complained before the HC that the girl had disappeared on June 2, but police were taking the matter casually though the family feared for her life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/grandpa-elopes-with-teen-hc-orders-fir/articleshow/77174643.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Dehradun||Not priests but Congress is opposing Char Dham Yatra: Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat||DEHRADUN: Responding to queries regarding the Char Dham Yatra, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Saturday said that those protesting the yatra are not priests but Congress members. “I know them very well. I recognise them by their faces and have known them for the past 20 years. Priests are not opposing the Char Dham Yatra but it is only a bunch of Congress members,” said the CM. In the weekly review meeting with the district magistrates to take stock of Covid-19 situation, CM Rawat asked the officials to take extra precaution and step up monitoring at industrial units “without disturbing their functioning”. Recently, many Covid-19 positive cases were found in an industrial unit of Haridwar. He called for proper and thorough surveillance to keep track of any suspect case and those under quarantine. In the wake of frequent rumours regarding the lockdown, the CM also instructed state officials to take strict action against those spreading false news. In the last few days, a rumour regarding another lockdown had been floating in the state. “I have asked the authorities to act tough in such matters and at the same time have directed the state machinery to immediately issue a clarification on such issues so that the people are not misled,” added CM Rawat. He did not fail to mention that there have been instances when people have given wrong information and inputs during their visit to Uttarakhand. “There is also an example of a person who ran away from a quarantine centre. Therefore, we have decided to increase surveillance and take strict measures on people who were trying to enter the state by serving false information,” said the CM. In the same breath, he laid thrust on the need to increase the number of Covid-19 testing each day and also directed authorities to ensure oxygen cylinders with each bed of hospital reserved for Covid-19 patients. “We need to increase the testing capacity and not be worried by an increase in the number of patients. The recovery rate of the state is good and they are being given the due medical attention,” he added. Meanwhile, Amit Negi, secretary of health, said that special attention should be paid to manpower present and required for the control of Covid-19. All the district magistrates should maintain a plan of two months for the necessary materials, said the senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/not-priests-but-congress-is-opposing-char-dham-yatra-cm/articleshow/77173801.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 26, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Women recced spots, made ransom calls in twin cases||LUCKNOW: Be it the abduction and murder of a lab technician in Kanpur or kidnapping of the eight-year-old son of a gutka trader in Gonda, the criminals used women in their plan to hoodwink cops. In the Kanpur case, a woman, Preeti, posed as the wife of one of the criminals to take a house on rent where they held lab technician Sanjeet Yadav hostage. Preeti also conducted the recce of Sanjeet and interacted with neighbours and landlord to avoid suspicion. In the Gonda incident, Chhavi Pandey, wife of main accused Suraj Pandey, made the Rs 4crore ransom call to the family and threatened to kill the boy if they did not pay the money. “During interrogation, Chhavi disclosed that they had planned to chop the boy’s body and dump it in the river,” said an officer in the crime branch privy to the probe. According to investigators, the arrested men have disclosed that the kidnapping was plotted by Chhavi. An 84-second audio clip of Chhavi had also gone viral in which she is heard purportedly demanding ransom from the family. Chhavi told cops that she came to know during lockdown that gutka trader Harikumar Gupta had a lot of money and was also planning to construct a complex in Kernalganj. Chhavi asked her brother-in-law Raja Pandey to visit Gupta’s shop and purchase bidi/paan masala. Later, Chhavi instigated her husband Suraj to take help from his friends, Deepu Kashyap and Umesh Yadav, to execute the boy’s kidnapping. “Raja told us that on Chhavi’s insistence they roped in Kashyap and Yadav and promised them half of ransom amount,” the officer said. While scanning CCTV footage, police found that Chhavi started reconnaissance of Gupta’s house from July 15. On the fateful day, Chhavi only made a call from SIM cards issued in the name of Suraj’s acquaintance. In the audio clip, Chhavi is heard as saying: “If you are not able to hear properly then tell me. Your son has been kidnapped. Arrange Rs 4 crore, I will again call you by the evening and you will reply only in ‘yes’ or ‘no’.” She also cites Vikas Dubey episode and adds that police will not be able to help them so it would be futile to approach them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/women-recced-spots-made-ransom-calls-in-twin-cases/articleshow/77175892.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Lucknow||Help me surrender: Vikas Dubey’s SOS to neta in viral chats||KANPUR: In the viral video saga since the Bikru bloodbath claimed lives of eight policemen, another WhatsApp call recording along with chats surfaced on Saturday where gangster Vikas Dubey is purportedly heard pleading with a politician to arrange his surrender while on the run. Though TOI cannot claim authenticity of the call recordings, if true, this could perhaps be the first proof of the don’s unholy nexus with politicians and his bid to muster support and aid when in deep distress. In the WhatsApp chat, Dubey seeks Rs 20 lakh loan from the politician and also wanted him to arranging his surrender. He also requests for four pairs of black trousers, coat and shoes of his size, allegedly exposing his close proximity with netas for even innocuous needs. The don promises to gift the politico land in Kanpur and vows to pay him double interest on the loan and is assured all help in return. In the WhatsApp call, Dubey is heard enquiring from the politician about his Thane conduit, Guddan Trivedi. “He (Vikas) was repeatedly asking about Guddan’s whereabouts and saying his number was not working,” said an investigator. Dubey’s aide Guddan alias Arvind Trivedi was arrested from Thane in Maharashtra. “The gangster also took name of some Sachin Awasthi, a relative of the politician. The caller says they have reached Gwalior, are safe and planning to surrender in court by Monday or Tuesday,” he said. The gangster says he is inquiring about Guddan because he is the admin of a Facebook page which is drawing too much interest on social media, he added. At one point, when the politician asks about whereabouts of Vikas, the caller says it’s like he is talking to him only. In a sensational audio clip that surfaced on July 21, Dubey was heard threatening and abusing police while chatting with a police constable of Chaubeypur police station. The gangster in 1.16-minute audio clip recorded an hour before the Bikru ambush, is heard constantly hurling expletives at cops and saying, “I will do something very big that will be remembered forever, even if I have to run or remain in jail the whole life.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/help-me-surrender-dons-sos-to-neta-in-viral-chats/articleshow/77175900.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 26, 2020||Pune||Pune: Three new hospitals, at Rs 100 crore each, to be operational in 14 days||PUNE: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said on Saturday Pune would soon get three makeshift hospitals to ease the region’s shortage of Covid-19 beds. The hospitals — each with 800 beds (600 with oxygen and 200 with ventilators) — will be similar to the huge unit at Mumbai's Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC). Pawar said the units, which will be operational within a fortnight, will add 2,400 beds in Pune district in phases. The three hospitals are expected to cost Rs 300 crore. The minister said the state will bear 50% of this cost while the remaining amount will be borne by local authorities. “Each unit will require nearly Rs 100 crore. The state government has agreed to bear half the expenses. The PMC, the PCMC and the PMRDA will take care of the other half,” Pawar told TOI. The local administration has proposed several sites for the temporary hospitals. But an Expression of Interest (EoI) has been floated by the PMRDA for a unit at Balewadi. The other two are likely to come up at Vimannagar and another location in the main Pune city area. Officer on Special Duty (OSD) to the Pune Divisional Commissioner’s office, Saurabh Rao, told TOI that the three units have been approved “in principle” by the high-powered committee for Pune. He said a technical team has been shown several locations and one site within PMC limits — on the grounds of the College of Engineering, Pune — may be taken up depending on requirements. “The committee has cleared my proposal, which emphasised the need for the jumbo facilities. Since it's the monsoon season, the structures have to be erected at a site which will not pose problems later on,” Rao said. He reiterated that setting aside more space for Covid-19 patients at government and private hospitals can ease the current shortage of beds. On Saturday, the number of vacant beds in the district stood at 3,956. Of these, there were 55 ICU units. But within PMC limits, the virtual dashboard set by the divisional commissioner's office, showed just five vacant beds. Rao said the administration was in talks with private hospitals to take over more non-Covid beds. He added that the administration may even turn entire hospitals into all-Covid units to ease the shortage in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/3-new-hosps-at-rs-100cr-each-to-be-operational-in-14-days/articleshow/77175901.cms||Nisha Nambiar
July 26, 2020||Varanasi||Chargesheets issued to ACMO, health, RTO officials for laxities||Varanasi: Taking action on various laxities being reported in Covid-19 management and poor contact tracing, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma issued a 13-point chargesheet to additional CMO and Integrated Data Surveillance Project (IDSP) in-charge Dr S S Kanojia and many other officials of health and regional transport department. The DM issued chargesheet to Kanojia for poor contact tracing of Covid-19 positive cases, inadequate sampling, lab test report not having proper details of patients, laxity in releasing figures of cases, number of deaths and not ensuring screening as per prescribed guidelines. Varanasi ranks among 10 lowest districts in contact tracing. In the chargesheet issued on July 23, Kanojia has been charged for delaying recruitment of lab technicians and laxity in sharing information with authorities in case of a 48-year-old positive patient of Prahladghat, who died. Explanation has also been sought from assistant regional transport officers Arun Kumar Rai and Ajay Kumar Rai for failing to arrange ambulances from private institutions for transportation of Covid-19 patients as per requirements. Chief medical superintendent of DDU district hospital, a Level-2 facility for Covid-19 patients, Dr V Shukla has been asked to explain for not taking action on damaged sewerage due to which patients cannot be admitted to 10-bed private ward. Additional CMO and nodal officer for Covid-19 facilities Dr A K Maurya and superintendent of primary health centre Misirpur Dr O P Shukla were asked to explain why food, drinking water and other facilities were not arranged for Covid-19 patients as per prescribed norms at St Mary’s Hospital’s L-1 facility in Korauta. Explanation was also sought from ACMO Dr A K Gupta for overlooking the directives of streamlining the arrangements at Covid-19 hospitals, where many lapses had been detected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/chargesheets-issued-to-acmo-health-rto-officials-for-laxities/articleshow/77175058.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Allahabad||ACMO beats Covid, dies of failing lungs||Prayagraj: Former district nodal officer for Covid-19 ward and additional chief medical officer Dr Ganesh Prasad, who had recently recovered from novel coronavirus, died due to other health complications at a private hospital in Prayagaraj on Saturday. Prasad had tested positive for Covid-19 on June 17 and was admitted in the Swaroop Rani Nehru Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/acmo-beats-covid-dies-of-failing-lungs/articleshow/77175180.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 1 missing as car gets swept away in stream||HYDERABAD: A woman was feared drowned, while her husband and his friend managed to survive after their car got swept away in the gushing waters of a stream at Kalugotla village in Jogulamba-Gadwal district in the wee hours of Saturday. The couple— Shiva Shankar Reddy and Sindhu Reddy— and their friend Pasha were on their way to Hyderabad from Bengaluru when the tragedy occurred near Kalugotla. Sindhu Reddy, 26, is feared drowned, while Shiva Shankar Reddy, a software engineer in the Garden City, and Pasha suffered injuries in the mishap. Gadwal police said efforts were still on to search for the missing woman. Around 9pm on Friday, the trio left Bengaluru to attend housewarming ceremony of Shankar’s sister in Hyderabad. Till they reached Kurnool at 4am, Shankar was behind the wheel. Later, Pasha took over. “Perhaps to avoid a toll plaza, they took a detour through a village and got ón to a causeway. Due to the heavy rain on Friday night, a local stream was in spate in the morning. Sensing danger, Shankar Reddy disembarked from the car and helped his wife get off the vehicle. Due to the strong current, the car with Pasha still in the driver’s seat got swept way. The car hit the couple before it got carried away by the surging waters. Due to the impact, the couple fell to a side of the causeway,” Gadwal DSP Yadagiri told STOI. After struggling for 15 minutes, Shankar managed to get out of the water and approached villagers seeking help. After travelling around 800 meters, the car got stuck in trees. Villagers rescued Pasha. However, Sindhu has been missing since the mishap, police said. “Pasha was lucky to survive as the stream joins Tungabhadra river at a short distance,” the DSP said. Officials fear Sindhu might have got washed away into the river. On either side of the causeway, there were agriculture fields, but due to overflowing stromwater, they got submerged, making it difficult for people to navigate on the causeway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1-missing-as-car-gets-swept-away-in-stream/articleshow/77175905.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Kanpur||WhatsApp call, chat revealDubey’s links with politicians||Kanpur: More details of gangster Vikas Dubey’s links with politicians and his efforts to muster support and assistance while being on the run came to fore when a recording of a WhatsApp call and chat surfaced and went viral on social media on Saturday. In WhatsApp chat, Dubey seeks help from a politician for a Rs 20 lakh loan and arranging his surrender. He also asks for four pair of black trousers and coat and shoes of his size. He also asks him to meet one Haji, saying the latter will help certainly. The don promises some land in Kanpur to the politician and vows to pay him double interest on loan and is assured all help by the politician. In the WhatsApp call, the caller said too be Vikas is heard inquiring about Guddan Trivedi from the politician. “He (Vikas) was repeatedly inquiring about Guddan and saying his number is not working,” said an investigator. Dubey’s aide Guddan alias Arvind Trivedi was arrested from Thane in Maharashtra. “The gangster also took name of some Sachin Awasthi, a relative of the politician. The caller says they have reached Gwalior, are safe and planning to surrender in court by Monday or Tuesday,” he said. The gangster says he is inquiring about Guddan because he is the admin of a Facebook page which is drawing too much interest on social media, he added. At one point, when the politician asks about the whereabouts of Vikas, the caller says it’s like he is talking to him only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/whatsapp-call-chat-revealdubeys-links-with-politicians/articleshow/77175239.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 26, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: Tea shop owner serves kadha, claims it boosts immunity against Covid-19||VARANASI: A tea shop at Jagambandi locality of the city, which was shut during the lockdown, has reopened in a new avatar. It is now serving ayurvedic kadha instead of tea, and the owner of the shop claims that kadha would enhance the immunity of the policemen of Dashashwamedh police station. Shop owner Vijay Kumar has become a centre of attraction for selling herbal kadha amid the pandemic. When asked about what made him think of serving kadha amid the lockdown, he said, “About three-and-a-half months back, when the country was under complete lockdown, I was advised by the inspector of Dashashwamedh police station, Siddharth Mishra, to prepare kadha for the policemen of his station. His advice made sense to me and I decided to follow it,” said Vijay. Vijay claims that the herbal mixture increases people’s immunity against the coronavirus. “I use as many as 15 kinds of ayurvedic herbs and ingredients to prepare kadha,” he said. Vijay charges Rs 10 for a kulhar (earthen cup) of kadha. “It is the regular consumption of kadha from this shop that prevented all policemen of our station from contracting coronavirus. So many policemen tested positive during the duty, but not a single one from Dashashwamedh police station was infected. This is because of drinking kadha,” claimed a police personnel who was drinking the ayurvedic liquid at Vijay’s shop on Saturday. “It is good for health particularly when a pandemic has ravaged the country,” said Sanjay Chaurasiya, a customer at Vijay’s shop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/tea-shop-owner-serves-kadha-to-cops-claims-it-boosts-immunity-against-covid-19/articleshow/77175042.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Pune||Care hub in PCMC limits took just three weeks to boost capacity||PUNE: In just three weeks, DY Patil Medical College, Hospital and Research Centre, has emerged as the largest non-public Covid Care Hospital in PCMC limits. Further, according to Yashraj Patil, treasurer of the hospital, it can quickly ramp-up to provide at least half of the 2,000 beds to the city's fight against the virus. Work on extra floor has already begun. Till end of June 2020, the hospital was mainly catering to only non-covid patients from neighboring PCMC-run YCM Hospital apart from its own patients, as the civic hospital was converted to a dedicated Covid-Care Hospital. Soon enough, the load on 750-bed YCM Hospital has increased with the city's active patient count at nearly 6,000. So PCMC has added 19 private or trust hospitals with nearly 1250 beds as of date. DY Patil Hospital itself has about 300 beds, of which over 225 are occupied. A proposal by PCMC to get more beds added at the facility is under works. The challenge, according to Patil and hospital's head of respiratory department, Madhusudan Barathwal, during the transition was to quickly motivate the doctors and paramedic staff to work at the Covid Care unit. A total of about 100 staff have been detailed for this purpose, who work for a week and then go on a seven-day quarantine and return to the Covid-19 ward on the fourth floor facility only after 14-days. "Luckily, we have a lot of young doctors and they were ready once we assured that they will be taken care of," Patil added. The hospital is looking to become the face of city's fight against Covid-19 virus, according to Bhagyashree Patil, vice chairperson, DY Patil Vidyapeeth Society. She said that the hospital will cater to both Covid-19 and non Covid-19 patients. Over time, the hospital has become a choice for patients from the economically disadvantaged class to avail of advanced treatments. Almost all government schemes like Mahatma Phule Jeevandayee Arogya Yojana or the Rajiv Gandhi Health Scheme are availed of at the hospital in large numbers. However, according to Yashraj Patil, the hospital will need support from PCMC so that it can keep the cost of treatment reasonable but also not run into losses. PCMC Commissioner Shravan Hardikar said that the old memorandum to understanding ran out and a new one, aligning hospital's legitimate interests, has almost been finalised. Patil said that the hospital will definitely not charge more than what the government has prescribed for the different bed categories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/care-hub-in-pcmc-limits-took-just-3-weeks-to-boost-capacity/articleshow/77175904.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
July 26, 2020||Pune||Pune: Focus on oxygen support in rural areas||PUNE: All five sub-divisional hospitals (SDHs) and 19 rural hospitals (RHs) will soon have about 1,600 oxygen-supported beds to treat Covid-19 patients from the non-urban parts of the district. District collector Naval Kishore Ram told TOI on Saturday that the work on oxygen pipelines in these units is in its final stages. “Some of the hospitals have already received the supply. The rest will get it soon,” he said. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer of the zilla parishad, said, “One patient needs at least seven litres of oxygen every hour. So far, we have managed to treat patients in time as our mortality rate is less than 2%. This rate will improve once we get these oxygen beds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/focus-on-oxygen-support-in-rural-areas/articleshow/77175918.cms||Sandip Dighe
July 26, 2020||Kolhapur||13 succumb to infection in Kolhapur, 4 in Sangli district||KOLHAPUR: As many as 406 fresh Covid-19 cases were registered in Kolhapur district on Saturday, taking the total number of patients to 4,057. The district also reported 13 Covid-related casualties, taking the toll to 112. Kolhapur municipal corporation chief Mallinath Kalshetti said that housing societies and office-bearers of residential colonies must ensure that any person arriving from outside is home-quarantined. In addition, Kalshetti also suggested home treatment for asymptomatic patients under the guidance of local doctors. However, the doctor must provide patient details to the local civic officials, Kalshetti said. He said home treatment will be allowed only for those having row houses and separate flats. Also, those having nuclear families will only be allowed to undergo home treatment. Kalshetti said over 150 housing societies have signed up for co-ordination for Covid management. Sangli registers 95 cases, 4 deaths Sangli district on Saturday reported 95 Covid-19 cases and four deaths, taking the total number of patients to 1,545. The death toll of the district stands at 48. Meanwhile, the Indiranagar area of the city was completely sealed after 25 cases were reported on Friday. However, local residents opposed to the idea of sealing the area completely. They demanded that there must be some provision made for them to buy essentials. However, their demand was not met. The angry residents then demolished the barricades and removed the iron grills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/13-succumb-to-infection-in-kolhapur-4-in-sangli-district/articleshow/77174678.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Kolhapur||62-year-old dies waiting for hospital bed, CPR capacity full||KOLHAPUR: A 62-year-old man from Gandhinagar with Covid-19 symptoms died while waiting for a hospital bed on Friday. His swab report came back positive on Saturday. His relatives, on the condition of anonymity, said they had been to the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje (CPR) hospital on Thursday, where they were told the patient could not be admitted due to non-availability of beds. They were instead asked to go to Seva hospital, another government facility. By the time they reached there, Seva hospital too was fully occupied. Early on Friday morning, as the family scrambled to find a hospital with vacant beds and which would admit the man, he died in the ambulance. His relatives said the 62-year-old man had developed a cough on Wednesday. “Suspecting that he might have contracted the virus, we took him to the CPR hospital on Thursday afternoon. We waited for four hours and then we were told that there is no bed availability. In the meantime, a throat swab was collected. The doctors there referred us to the Seva hospital, which also did not have beds,” the relative, who is now in quarantine, told TOI. Four months into the Covid-19 pandemic, the relative rued that there is no information available about the vacancies of the beds in Kolhapur city and district. “He died while we were searching for a bed in private hospitals. The pulse rate was dropping continuously before he died at around 3 am on Friday,” the relative said. CPR hospital dean Arti Ghorpade said, “It is true that the CPR hospital has no beds left. In the past week, we have increased the number of beds from 250 to 378. Of these, 75 are beds for critical patients. We have been told to regularly provide details of the vacant beds so that the relatives can be informed.” Health officials said that relatives rush patients to CPR hospital since it gives the treatment free or at minimal cost. However, with the steady rise in Covid-19 patients in Kolhapur over the past two weeks, the government facilities are falling short. Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti said, "We are facing a shortage of beds in public hospitals. New private hospitals are being acquired. We are appointing the officers to coordinate among each other and keep updating themselves regarding the availability of the beds in private hospitals." A senior official said the policy to allow home treatment of asymptomatic cases could be adopted, considering the situation at the hospitals. Also, the more quarantine centres with isolation beds will be opened up. 48-bed dormitory at Railway Station lying unused Kalshetti has ordered that the possibility of starting a Covid care centre for asymptomatic patients at the 48-bed dormitory at railway station and at the abandoned ESI Hospital near the government circuit house is being explored.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/62-year-old-dies-waiting-for-hospital-bed-cpr-capacity-full/articleshow/77174657.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Private hospitals plan to isolate Covid care||KOCHI: As the state government keeps looking up to private hospitals to treat the increasing number of Covid patients, several private hospitals are now searching for unused facilities, within the campus or in the vicinity, to keep their non-Covid care detached and the staff safe. Private hospitals are converting vacant facilities such as colleges, hostels, Ayurveda treatment centres and even turning to adjacent hotels to be turned into Covid centres or First-Line Treatment Centres (FLTCs). The facilities will be manned by doctors and nurses from the private hospitals and walk-in patients as well as Covid patients referred from the government hospitals will be admitted. The move should augur well for the private hospitals in the state as due to the stigma attached to Covid, private hospitals that admit a positive patient sees a 50% drop in non-Covid patients. “The building will be under the hospital and managed by the hospital staff. While in the main hospital the non-Covid patients will be treated, in the new facility Covid patients will be treated," said Kerala Private Hospital Association president Hussain Koya Thangal. MES medical college in Malappuram has converted its Arts college classrooms into an 80-bedded Covid hospital with 17 ICU beds, while in Kasaragod, the private hospitals have come together to convert a nursing college into a Covid hospital, with staff posted from the hospitals in the vicinity. NIMS medicity hospital at Thiruvananthapuram is in the process of converting their Ayurveda treatment centre into a 35-bed Covid hospital with 3 ICU beds. "The government hospitals are now fully functioning as Covid hospitals and we have to cater to non-Covid patients too. Also, we don't want our doctors and other staff to be infected and quarantined en masse. We have to take care of our healthcare workers," said Dr Hamid Fazal Ghafoor, medical superintendent, MES medical college, Malappuram. Incidentally, though 70% of healthcare is provided by private hospitals and the majority of doctors and nurses are in the private sector, so far just about 48 private hospitals have agreed to treat Covid patients and have kept separate facilities for the same. In districts where Covid cases are surging, the district administration is already in talks with private hospitals to start taking Covid patients. Besides sharing guidelines on infection control and precautions, the government has also sensitised private hospital medical superintendents about Covid management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pvt-hosps-plan-to-isolate-covid-care/articleshow/77173836.cms||Preetu Nair
July 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Covid situation worsens in Kasaragod district||KOZHIKODE: Covid-19 spread in Kasaragod district worsened with 43 people who attended a marriage function at Chenkala panchayat on July 17 turning positive. They were found to have contracted the disease in the tests conducted in the past few days. Following this, district collector D Sajith Babu has asked all the people who had attended the marriage to go on quarantine. He said those who show the symptoms of Covid-19 should contact the nearby public health centre. The collector also directed the police to register a case against those who arranged the marriage violating Covid-19 regulations. Prohibitory orders have been imposed at areas coming under Manjeshwaram, Kasaragod, Kumbala, Hosdurg and Nileshwaram police station limits. Public transport facilities, including autorickshaws and taxi cars, have been banned in the areas. There are six Covid clusters in Kasaragod, the largest being the Kasaragod market. Meanwhile, Kozhikode district is gearing up to meet the increasing threat of Covid-19 spread in the coming days. A meeting chaired by minister A K Saseendran estimated that if the spread progresses in the same proportion, there will be patients between 3,000 and 4,000 in the district. The minister said efforts were being made to contain the spread and arrange the facilities if the virus spread. The health department is making arrangements to make available oxygen kits and ventilators. MLA funds will be utilized to purchase 23 ventilators. The Beach General Hospital will be converted into a dedicated Covid-19 hospital within two days. Discussions are going with the private hospitals to avail their facilities, the minister said. Rashida, daughter of Ruquiya who died of Covid-19 on Friday, died on Saturday morning. Health authorities said more tests need to be conducted to confirm Covid-19 infection. A 62-year-old pneumonia patient who died in Wayanad while being brought from Bengaluru to her hometown of Thalassery in a mobile ICU on Saturday tested positive for Covid-19 in the test conducted after her death. Thalassery native Laila died at Sulthan Bathery taluk hospital where she was taken to after she developed complications during the journey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/covid-situation-worsens-in-kasaragod-dist/articleshow/77177332.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Covid situation worsens in Kasaragod district||KOZHIKODE: Covid-19 spread in Kasaragod district worsened with 43 people who attended a marriage function at Chenkala panchayat on July 17 turning positive. They were found to have contracted the disease in the tests conducted in the past few days. Following this, district collector D Sajith Babu has asked all the people who had attended the marriage to go on quarantine. He said those who show the symptoms of Covid-19 should contact the nearby public health centre. The collector also directed the police to register a case against those who arranged the marriage violating Covid-19 regulations. Prohibitory orders have been imposed at areas coming under Manjeshwaram, Kasaragod, Kumbala, Hosdurg and Nileshwaram police station limits. Public transport facilities, including autorickshaws and taxi cars, have been banned in the areas. There are six Covid clusters in Kasaragod, the largest being the Kasaragod market. Meanwhile, Kozhikode district is gearing up to meet the increasing threat of Covid-19 spread in the coming days. A meeting chaired by minister A K Saseendran estimated that if the spread progresses in the same proportion, there will be patients between 3,000 and 4,000 in the district. The minister said efforts were being made to contain the spread and arrange the facilities if the virus spread. The health department is making arrangements to make available oxygen kits and ventilators. MLA funds will be utilized to purchase 23 ventilators. The Beach General Hospital will be converted into a dedicated Covid-19 hospital within two days. Discussions are going with the private hospitals to avail their facilities, the minister said. Rashida, daughter of Ruquiya who died of Covid-19 on Friday, died on Saturday morning. Health authorities said more tests need to be conducted to confirm Covid-19 infection. A 62-year-old pneumonia patient who died in Wayanad while being brought from Bengaluru to her hometown of Thalassery in a mobile ICU on Saturday tested positive for Covid-19 in the test conducted after her death. Thalassery native Laila died at Sulthan Bathery taluk hospital where she was taken to after she developed complications during the journey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/covid-situation-worsens-in-kasaragod-dist/articleshow/77173842.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Private hospitals plan to isolate Covid care||KOCHI: As the state government keeps looking up to private hospitals to treat the increasing number of Covid patients, several private hospitals are now searching for unused facilities, within the campus or in the vicinity, to keep their non-Covid care detached and the staff safe. Private hospitals are converting vacant facilities such as colleges, hostels, Ayurveda treatment centres and even turning to adjacent hotels to be turned into Covid centres or First-Line Treatment Centres (FLTCs). The facilities will be manned by doctors and nurses from the private hospitals and walk-in patients as well as Covid patients referred from the government hospitals will be admitted. The move should augur well for the private hospitals in the state as due to the stigma attached to Covid, private hospitals that admit a positive patient sees a 50% drop in non-Covid patients. “The building will be under the hospital and managed by the hospital staff. While in the main hospital the non-Covid patients will be treated, in the new facility Covid patients will be treated," said Kerala Private Hospital Association president Hussain Koya Thangal. MES medical college in Malappuram has converted its Arts college classrooms into an 80-bedded Covid hospital with 17 ICU beds, while in Kasaragod, the private hospitals have come together to convert a nursing college into a Covid hospital, with staff posted from the hospitals in the vicinity. NIMS medicity hospital at Thiruvananthapuram is in the process of converting their Ayurveda treatment centre into a 35-bed Covid hospital with 3 ICU beds. "The government hospitals are now fully functioning as Covid hospitals and we have to cater to non-Covid patients too. Also, we don't want our doctors and other staff to be infected and quarantined en masse. We have to take care of our healthcare workers," said Dr Hamid Fazal Ghafoor, medical superintendent, MES medical college, Malappuram. Incidentally, though 70% of healthcare is provided by private hospitals and the majority of doctors and nurses are in the private sector, so far just about 48 private hospitals have agreed to treat Covid patients and have kept separate facilities for the same. In districts where Covid cases are surging, the district administration is already in talks with private hospitals to start taking Covid patients. Besides sharing guidelines on infection control and precautions, the government has also sensitised private hospital medical superintendents about Covid management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/pvt-hosps-plan-to-isolate-covid-care/articleshow/77177211.cms||Preetu Nair
July 26, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Covid situation worsens in Kasaragod district||KOZHIKODE: Covid-19 spread in Kasaragod district worsened with 43 people who attended a marriage function at Chenkala panchayat on July 17 turning positive. They were found to have contracted the disease in the tests conducted in the past few days. Following this, district collector D Sajith Babu has asked all the people who had attended the marriage to go on quarantine. He said those who show the symptoms of Covid-19 should contact the nearby public health centre. The collector also directed the police to register a case against those who arranged the marriage violating Covid-19 regulations. Prohibitory orders have been imposed at areas coming under Manjeshwaram, Kasaragod, Kumbala, Hosdurg and Nileshwaram police station limits. Public transport facilities, including autorickshaws and taxi cars, have been banned in the areas. There are six Covid clusters in Kasaragod, the largest being the Kasaragod market. Meanwhile, Kozhikode district is gearing up to meet the increasing threat of Covid-19 spread in the coming days. A meeting chaired by minister A K Saseendran estimated that if the spread progresses in the same proportion, there will be patients between 3,000 and 4,000 in the district. The minister said efforts were being made to contain the spread and arrange the facilities if the virus spread. The health department is making arrangements to make available oxygen kits and ventilators. MLA funds will be utilized to purchase 23 ventilators. The Beach General Hospital will be converted into a dedicated Covid-19 hospital within two days. Discussions are going with the private hospitals to avail their facilities, the minister said. Rashida, daughter of Ruquiya who died of Covid-19 on Friday, died on Saturday morning. Health authorities said more tests need to be conducted to confirm Covid-19 infection. A 62-year-old pneumonia patient who died in Wayanad while being brought from Bengaluru to her hometown of Thalassery in a mobile ICU on Saturday tested positive for Covid-19 in the test conducted after her death. Thalassery native Laila died at Sulthan Bathery taluk hospital where she was taken to after she developed complications during the journey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/covid-situation-worsens-in-kasaragod-dist/articleshow/77177331.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Jaipur||In Jodhpur dist, school is at doorsteps of students||Jodhpur: Parents and students of six government schools under Panchayat Elementary Education Office (Berdon ka Bas) in Osian sub-division of Jodhpur are delighted to see teachers of the schools knocking at their doors.Unlike a custom every session called ‘praveshotsav’ to increase the enrolments; these teachers are coming with hand-written study material and books for the students so that their studies do not suffer during the pandemic era.Christened as ‘school chale ghar ki aur’ (schools at your doorstep), teachers of these schools have been going door-to-door distributing self-prepared study material and books to the students and collecting old books. These teachers distribute the material from Monday to Friday, while Saturday is designated for checking of the homework and preparing the fresh set of study material to be distributed next week.A brainchild of Devi Bijani, principal of the senior secondary school of Bedon ka Bas, the plan was initially conceived for her school only, but later in a meeting of PEEO, headmasters of three upper primary and two primary schools also evinced interest to join the mission. “The idea was triggered by the limitations of the students of government schools in rural areas to access online education. They do not have the required resources for online education, in absence of which, they were set to suffer,” said Bijani, asking they do not have chappals to wear, how could they be expected to access online education. “Hence, we decided to go to them and provide them all support until the schools were opened,” she said.The staff of these schools is going to the houses of students from classes 1 to 8 with the study material and books, while the parents and students from classes 9 to 12 are being asked to collect the same from the school. According to a senior English teacher Om Prakash, almost all the 265 students have been covered under this mission, which has received a tremendous response from the parents and students. He said the move has also brought in positive results as new enrolments have been increasing seeing the devotion of the teachers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/in-jodhpur-dist-school-is-at-doorsteps-of-students/articleshow/77175932.cms||Ajay Parmar
July 26, 2020||Varanasi||CM Yogi to visit Kashi, Ballia today||Varanasi: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will review the Covid-19 arrangements of Varanasi division at a meeting with the officials at Banaras Hindu University on Sunday afternoon. Yogi will arrive Varanasi after holding Azamgarh division’s meet at Ballia. The divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal on Saturday confirmed that the CM will reach the city at 3 pm and during his 90 minutes stay here he will hold review meeting on Covid-19. With the confirmation of CM’s proposed visit the commissioner along with district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma, SSP Amit Pathak and other officials reached BHU and inspected the helipad apart from seeing the arrangements for the review meeting. Earlier, CM’s chopper will land at a school campus in Basanatpur area in Ballia district at 11.20 am. The CM will visit collectorate campus to hold review meeting on Covid-19 in, which officials from Azamgarh and Mau will also take part. Before leaving for Varanasi the CM will also meet the delegations of nursing home association and local branch of Indian Medical Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-yogi-to-visit-kashi-ballia-today/articleshow/77175064.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Private hospitals plan to isolate Covid care||KOCHI: As the state government keeps looking up to private hospitals to treat the increasing number of Covid patients, several private hospitals are now searching for unused facilities, within the campus or in the vicinity, to keep their non-Covid care detached and the staff safe. Private hospitals are converting vacant facilities such as colleges, hostels, Ayurveda treatment centres and even turning to adjacent hotels to be turned into Covid centres or First-Line Treatment Centres (FLTCs). The facilities will be manned by doctors and nurses from the private hospitals and walk-in patients as well as Covid patients referred from the government hospitals will be admitted. The move should augur well for the private hospitals in the state as due to the stigma attached to Covid, private hospitals that admit a positive patient sees a 50% drop in non-Covid patients. “The building will be under the hospital and managed by the hospital staff. While in the main hospital the non-Covid patients will be treated, in the new facility Covid patients will be treated," said Kerala Private Hospital Association president Hussain Koya Thangal. MES medical college in Malappuram has converted its Arts college classrooms into an 80-bedded Covid hospital with 17 ICU beds, while in Kasaragod, the private hospitals have come together to convert a nursing college into a Covid hospital, with staff posted from the hospitals in the vicinity. NIMS medicity hospital at Thiruvananthapuram is in the process of converting their Ayurveda treatment centre into a 35-bed Covid hospital with 3 ICU beds. "The government hospitals are now fully functioning as Covid hospitals and we have to cater to non-Covid patients too. Also, we don't want our doctors and other staff to be infected and quarantined en masse. We have to take care of our healthcare workers," said Dr Hamid Fazal Ghafoor, medical superintendent, MES medical college, Malappuram. Incidentally, though 70% of healthcare is provided by private hospitals and the majority of doctors and nurses are in the private sector, so far just about 48 private hospitals have agreed to treat Covid patients and have kept separate facilities for the same. In districts where Covid cases are surging, the district administration is already in talks with private hospitals to start taking Covid patients. Besides sharing guidelines on infection control and precautions, the government has also sensitised private hospital medical superintendents about Covid management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/pvt-hosps-plan-to-isolate-covid-care/articleshow/77177212.cms||Preetu Nair
July 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Promised job, 21-year-old forced into sex trade; racket busted||AHMEDABAD: Vatva GIDC police on Friday rescued a 21-year-old girl who was pushed into sex racket by a woman named Suman Qureshi and one Sonu Qureshi. The girl was promised a job in Ahmedabad but was forced to work as sex worker by the duo, said a police official. City police control room had received a message from the victim from a hotel in Vatva GIDC area. The cops have detained Sonu but Suman Qureshi is on the run. The accused have been sent for Covid-19 test before their arrest. Inspector D R Gohil of Vatva GIDC police station said that while they were on patrolling duty on Friday night, they received the message from the girl who was kept in captivity and pushed into sex racket. However, the phone was immediately switched off. “We finally found the girl from one of the hotels in our area. The hotel owner told us that as the girl made a call, a woman and a man fled from there. We rescued the girl and brought her to the police station,” said Gohil. Later, police nabbed Sonu Qureshi from Khokhra. As the girl did not understand Hindi properly, the cops took help of a translator for her Assamese language. Police have invoked stringent sections of 365, 366, 376 and Immoral Trafficking Act against the couple who had brought the girl from Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sex-racket-woman-rescued/articleshow/77174697.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Teacher who did Covid survey dies without treatment||BENGALURU: Delay in admitting patients and arranging ventilators continue to claim lives in the state capital. On Saturday morning, a 50-year-old corona warrior, who conducted door-to-door health surveys for BBMP, died after she could not get prompt treatment. At least three hospitals insisted on a Covid-19 test report instead of providing medical attention to Dilnaz Begum, her family alleged. The report confirming coronavirus infection arrived a few hours after she had passed away. Dilnaz, a resident of DJ Halli, worked in a government Urdu school in the locality. Since May 7, she had been carrying out door-to-door surveys in the ward to identify people with influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). She is thought to have contracted the virus during the work.  “My mother was a part of health surveys. Recently, she developed fever. On Friday morning, she complained of breathing difficulty. We took her to at least three hospitals, but they refused to admit her, saying we should first get the Covid test report or that they didn’t have spare ventilators,” said her son, Ifrar Ahmed, who works in a private firm. “She was tired, so we brought her home. We managed to get oxygen support.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/teacher-who-did-virus-survey-dies-without-treatment/articleshow/77176367.cms||Kiran Parashar
July 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Over 1,700 relatives of cops quarantined, 86 turn positive in Karnataka||BENGALURU: An increasing number of frontline workers and their family members are being quarantined or testing positive. A total of 1,704 relatives of police personnel across the state — contacts of 1,986 infected personnel — have been quarantined so far as per the latest police records. Eighty-six of these contacts have also tested positive. The good news is that 862 of the 1,704 have been discharged and gone back to their families. The number of Covid-positive cops crossed 2,000 on Saturday. Udupi district had the highest number of police kin in quarantine (350), while Dharwad had the lowest (4). No family members of infected personnel were shifted to quarantine facilities in 13 of the 36 police districts due to various reasons. Owing to the rising cases in the force, several police personnel are staying in hotels and sharing accommodations with colleagues, not wanting to put their families at risk. An assistant commissioner of police from the west division in Bengaluru said he has sent his aged parents to his hometown Tumakuru, while staying in a hotel room near Vijayanagar. “I don’t want to put my wife or schoolgoing daughter at risk. Everyday, I speak with them over the phone. I have not met them for the past 35 days,” he said. A constable in the south division said he’s living with a batchmate and has sent his pregnant wife to her parents’ house in North Karnataka. “We have been working continuously since March and may get infected any time. Thousands of constables across the state are staying away from their families,” he said. Women police officials said they too fear mingling with family members, minor children in particular. “Many of us have small children. When we return home, they come near us. Unlike our male colleagues, we can’t distance ourselves from our families and live separately. Though we are working women, we have responsibilities at home as well,” said a woman assistant sub-inspector working in the east division. Over all, 5,300 police personnel in the state have been quarantined till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/over-1700-relatives-of-cops-quarantined-86-turn-positive-in-karnataka/articleshow/77176369.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
July 26, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Special accommodation facility for truck drivers||KOZHIKODE: Wayanad district administration has decided to open special accommodation and rest centres exclusively for truck drivers who return with goods from other states. The decision was taken at a meeting of district authorities with representatives of truck owners’ association. The centres will be available for those who don't have enough facility at their homes for house quarantine. The local body institutions in Kalpetta, Sulthan Bathery and Mananthavady have been asked to set up such centres which will have parking facility, bathrooms and facility for emergency medical aid. The authorities would make arrangements to provide essential items to the drivers. Also, stickers which will have details of drivers and areas where the truck driver had stayed will be affixed on the vehicles. District collector Adeela Abdulla said that the rest centres for truck drivers were being started considering the spurt in Covid-19 cases in other states and to curb truck drivers from mingling with the public. Meanwhile, plasma convalescent therapy began at the plasma bank at the district hospital at Mananthavady. A Covid-19 patient hailing from Thondernad who was under treatment at the hospital was administered plasma extracted from the blood of a patient who had recovered from the disease. District medical officer Dr R Renuka said that the health condition of the patient improved after the plasma therapy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/special-accommodation-facility-for-truck-drivers/articleshow/77173835.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Special accommodation facility for truck drivers||KOZHIKODE: Wayanad district administration has decided to open special accommodation and rest centres exclusively for truck drivers who return with goods from other states. The decision was taken at a meeting of district authorities with representatives of truck owners’ association. The centres will be available for those who don't have enough facility at their homes for house quarantine. The local body institutions in Kalpetta, Sulthan Bathery and Mananthavady have been asked to set up such centres which will have parking facility, bathrooms and facility for emergency medical aid. The authorities would make arrangements to provide essential items to the drivers. Also, stickers which will have details of drivers and areas where the truck driver had stayed will be affixed on the vehicles. District collector Adeela Abdulla said that the rest centres for truck drivers were being started considering the spurt in Covid-19 cases in other states and to curb truck drivers from mingling with the public. Meanwhile, plasma convalescent therapy began at the plasma bank at the district hospital at Mananthavady. A Covid-19 patient hailing from Thondernad who was under treatment at the hospital was administered plasma extracted from the blood of a patient who had recovered from the disease. District medical officer Dr R Renuka said that the health condition of the patient improved after the plasma therapy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/special-accommodation-facility-for-truck-drivers/articleshow/77177349.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Special accommodation facility for truck drivers||KOZHIKODE: Wayanad district administration has decided to open special accommodation and rest centres exclusively for truck drivers who return with goods from other states. The decision was taken at a meeting of district authorities with representatives of truck owners’ association. The centres will be available for those who don't have enough facility at their homes for house quarantine. The local body institutions in Kalpetta, Sulthan Bathery and Mananthavady have been asked to set up such centres which will have parking facility, bathrooms and facility for emergency medical aid. The authorities would make arrangements to provide essential items to the drivers. Also, stickers which will have details of drivers and areas where the truck driver had stayed will be affixed on the vehicles. District collector Adeela Abdulla said that the rest centres for truck drivers were being started considering the spurt in Covid-19 cases in other states and to curb truck drivers from mingling with the public. Meanwhile, plasma convalescent therapy began at the plasma bank at the district hospital at Mananthavady. A Covid-19 patient hailing from Thondernad who was under treatment at the hospital was administered plasma extracted from the blood of a patient who had recovered from the disease. District medical officer Dr R Renuka said that the health condition of the patient improved after the plasma therapy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/special-accommodation-facility-for-truck-drivers/articleshow/77177350.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Land sold to celebs in dispute||HYDERABAD: A Hyderabad-based builder raked up an old multi-crore land deal, on Saturday, while accusing a construction firm of illegally selling property to celebrities — including a popular cricketer and south Indian movie stars — in 2008. Sudheer Reddy, a former employee of Aditya Homes Pvt Limited, alleged that his ex-firm sold land, falling under the Full Tank Level (FTL) of Raviryal Lake, in Maheswaram, to ‘A’ listers for 1 crore per acre. The market value was between 5 lakh and 10 lakh at that time, he alleged. Sudheer Reddy claimed that the deals with brokered by his brother-in-law, Kota Reddy, the chairman of the company.. “In 2008, the cricketer was sold six acres and the sale deed was drawn up on the name of his wife,” he said sharing a copy of it with STOI. “The same year, the two actresses were also sold an acre each. He sold over 20 such properties,” said Sudheer Reddy claiming he decided to revive the case now since Kota Reddy recently accused him of theft. “The FTL land was purchased from farmers for less price and sold as regular plots,” he added. All allegations were denied by Kota Reddy who however maintained that celebrities did buy plots 12 years ago. “I did not personally sell plots to any celebrity; even I purchased plots in the same land in 2008. All of us purchased land from farmers. If it was a dubious deal, why hasn’t any celebrity lodged a police complaint yet?” he said. On the FTL issue, Kota said as per HMDA master plan, land purchased by him and celebrities falls under multiple use zone and as per irrigation records, falls under FTL. Kalinga Rao, circle inspector of Banjara Hills PS said, “No one has lodged a complaint with us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/land-sold-to-celebs-in-dispute/articleshow/77174668.cms||Nabinder Bommala
July 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Isolation homes not new to Rangareddy||HYDERABAD: While social distancing, home quarantine and working from home have become the new normal during the pandemic, Rangareddy’s Saireddyguda village set the tone for quarantine several decades ago when the deadly plague struck the region. Elders recall that some of the remote villages like Saireddyguda had houses which served as isolation homes for patients ravaged by the plague in those days. These houses were constructed away from the villages and importantly close to a well, they aver. Venkata Ramireddy, a farmer-cum-businessman from Saireddyguda in Kandukur mandal, not far from Hyderabad, says his elders had constructed such houses during the plague outbreak. “My family built a small house away from the house they had in the centre of the village. The small house though dilapidated is still standing. A small colony has come up around it. There were four to five such temporary isolation homes in the village to serve the patients,” he recalled. Ramireddy said people were quarantined in these isolation homes to stop the spread of the virus back then. “Many people have settled in the city and some stayed back in the village,” he said. Saireddyguda has a population of 2,000 now . According to Congress kisan cell national vice-chairman M Kodanda Reddy, many of such homes have bitten the dust because of the real estate boom in the last two decades. “While doing cultivation in some areas of Rangareddy, we stumble upon tools and other paraphrenalia used at that time by those doing quarantine in these isolation homes,” he told S TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/isolation-homes-not-new-to-rangareddy/articleshow/77174670.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 26, 2020||Raipur||MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan tests positive for Covid-19, admitted to hospital||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has tested positive for Covid-19 – the first CM to be infected by the virus. He has been admitted to a private hospital. Chouhan, 61, disclosed it in a tweet just after noon on Saturday: “I had symptoms of Covid-19. My test report came back positive. I appeal to all my colleagues and all those who came in contact with me to get themselves tested for coronavirus. My close contacts have moved into quarantine.” Chouhan tweeted, “I am following all Covid-19 guidelines. I will quarantine myself following medical advice… I appeal to the people of my state to be careful. The slightest of carelessness invites coronavirus infection. I made every effort to avoid Covid-19 but people meet me for various reasons.” Two days ago, his cabinet colleague Arvind Bhadoria had tested positive for Covid-19 just hours after attending a cabinet meeting chaired by the CM. Bhadoria and Chouhan were also together at the last rites of Governor Lalji Tandon in Lucknow, which was attended by defence minister Rajnath Singh and UP Governor and MP acting Governor Anandiben Patel. BJP state chief VD Sharma, who was at the same event and had travelled with Bhadoria has tested negative. Chouhan has been admitted to Chirayu Medical College in Bhopal, said home minister Narottam Mishra. “As the CM tweeted, he took all protective measures to avoid infection. His medical update will be available on Thursday evening,” he said. The CM’s health is ‘absolutely stable’, Chirayu medical college director Dr Ajay Goenka said in the evening. “His health parameters are stable. He only has Covid-19 and his medical condition, sugar levels and oxygen saturation arenormal,” said Dr Goenka. “Line of treatment is not defined in Covid-19. It is novel coronavirus, and unpredictable. As we speak, the patient’s condition is stable,” he added. Former CM Kamal Nath wished him a quick recovery, and tweeted: “I pray to God that he gets well soon.” BJP Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia tweeted: “I hope you recover quickly and get back to serving the people of Madhya Pradesh.” A number of people who came in contact with Chouhan are now expected to get tested for Covid-19. Sources say he has had one-on-one meetings with 17 cabinet ministers in the last couple of days. All nine ministers from Indore-Ujjain division have quarantined themselves. The CM said he would continue working despite his illness. “I have been reviewing the status of Corona infection every evening since March 25. I will try to review coronavirus through video conferencing as much as possible now.” Chouhan tweeted that in his absence, four ministers would supervise the battle against Covid-19 – Narottam Mishra, Bhupendra Singh (urban development), Vishwas Sarang (medical education) Prabhuram Choudhary (health). Congress veteran Digvijaya Singh wished him a quick recovery and tweeted: “I am sorry to hear that you are infected with coronavirus. I pray that God helps you recover quickly. You should have observed social distancing but you didn’t. Do take care of yourself.” Earlier in the day, AIIMS-Bhopal authorities were updated of the CM’s medical condition and spoke with additional chief secretary, health, Mohammed Suleman ahead of Chouhan’s admission to the private hospital. A government statement said Chouhan has been admitted to Chirayu so that other patients don’t face any difficulty, pointing out that patients suffering from other illnesses are at Gandhi Medical College and AIIMS. “If required we are there for support,” said AIIMS-Bhopal director Dr Sarman Singh. Sources say a senior official had sought information about possibility of VVIPs seeking treatment for Covid-19 at various Bhopal hospitals, and a dossier of private hospital beds was prepared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/raipur/shivraj-tests-positive-for-covid-19-admitted-to-hosp/articleshow/77172494.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Welspun to invest Rs 2,000 crore in Telangana by financial year 2021-22||HYDERABAD: Welspun Flooring Limited, the integrated flooring vertical of US$ 2.7 billion Welspun Group, is investing Rs 2,000 crore in Telangana by financial year 2021-22 with plans to set up an advanced textiles facility in addition to the flooring facility at Chandanvelly in Shabad mandal, Rangareddy. While the company has invested 1,100 crore in setting up the 200-acre hard and soft flooring facility to manufacture stone polymer composite Click-N-Lock tiles, carpet tiles, broadloom wall to wall carpets and artificial grass, it plans to invest another 200 crore in expanding this to 40 million sq ft per annum (msftpa) from the existing 10 msftpa capacity. It is also setting up an advanced textiles plant at an investment of 400 crore to manufacture protective fabrics and health and hygiene wipes, over next 12 to 18 months. The flooring facility, which employs close to 1,600 people, was inaugurated on Saturday by Telangana industries & IT minister KT Rama Rao, who also laid the foundation stone for the technical textiles plant that is coming up adjacent to the flooring facility. Terming the Welspun facility as a stepping stone for unlocking Telangana’s growth prospects, KTR said the government was looking forward to the firm creating a mini-Welspun city in Telangana. KTR said efforts are underway by government to set up a bigger industrial park spread over 3,600 acres near Shabad. Pointing out that this is the largest investment the company has made outside Gujarat, Welspun Group chairman BK Goenka said its emerging flooring business is poised to benefit from synergies with Welspun Group’s existing businesses and large customer base, creating a strong domestic and global growth opportunity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/welspun-to-invest-2k-cr-in-t-by-fy22/articleshow/77174676.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19: Telangana dispatches medicines en masse to arrest critical cases count||HYDERABAD: Anticipating a further surge in Covid-19 cases in rural areas of Telangana over the next few weeks, the state health department has now changed its strategy, with the hope of preventing patients from slipping into a critical stage. While on the one hand, it has decided to start immediate treatment of patients walking in to primary health centres with flu-like symptoms and is also geared up to begin door-to-door search of patients, on the other hand it has also dispatched crores of tablets — of 54 different types — to the districts. Officials from the department said, medicines worth 5 crore have been rushed to districts already, to last for a month and treat one lakh patients. More medicines are being procured. Explaining the system further, officials said, once a patient is identified, he/she will be put on immediate medication without waiting for Covid-19 tests. Since management of these cases is mostly done through use of antibiotics, multi-vitamins, Remdesivir and Fabiflu, these are among the tablets that have been sent to the districts. Also, lakhs of Dolocet tablets have been sent to government hospitals including area hospitals, community health centres, primary health centres and dispensaries so that the they are available in sufficient quantities across every village. Medicines for other chronic diseases like high blood pressure and diabetes have also been dispatched. “We are shifting the whole strategy from focussing on GHMC limits by testing-treating- tracking to identifying cases in rural areas and treating them at the earliest. The idea is to bring down the number of complicated cases by initiating treatment without wasting any time,” said state public health director, Dr G Srinivas Rao. Health minister Eatala Rajender is also set to visit three districts — Karimnagar, Nizamabad and Medak —on Sunday to take stock of the situation. These districts have seen large number of cases in the last few days. The health department has already sounded an alert on a further surge in cases, especially in districts, over the next four to six weeks. “Although antigen testing kits too have been rushed to districts, we intend not to wait for tests, to begin treatment. If the infection progresses, it results in lung damage and at that stage ventilator facility is required. We barely have 450 ventilators in the entire state for Covid-19 treatment, majority of which are in Hyderabad. Therefore, we want to bring down critical cases as far as possible, to be able to keep the number of deaths low,” said a source from the health department.  No bulletin on Saturday: Health authorities on Saturday decided not to release the daily Covid-19 bulletin at the eleventh hour. An official statement from the director of public health said the bulletin’s format was being changed and will be released on Sunday morning. The Telangana high court has been asking for a more detailed bulletin from the government during its various hearings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-dispatches-meds-en-masse-to-arrest-critical-cases-count/articleshow/77174689.cms||Amrita Didyala
July 26, 2020||Hyderabad||TSCHE may adopt blended learning||HYDERABAD: Even as the Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) awaits clear guidelines from the University Grants Commission (UGC) on commencement of the new academic year, it is learnt that the state is most likely to adopt blended learning — online and physical — as a mode of instruction for degree courses. As per UGC guidelines for technical courses, classes must commence by October 1. However, considering the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in Telangana, officials are skeptical on the commencement of physical classes any time soon. “We had elaborate discussions on adopting blended learning...However, all that depends on the situation in October. If the situation continues to be the same then we may have to adopt complete online learning,” said TSCHE chairman Papi Reddy. While many autonomous colleges in the city have already started making efforts by tying up with agencies to conduct virtual classes, other private degree college managements have raised concerns over the transition. “Almost 90% colleges do not have the infrastructure to switch to online learning. Unlike autonomous colleges that charge tuition fees of 40,000 per annum, other private degree colleges charge anywhere between 4,000 to 10,000 per annum. With low fee structure, conducting online classes for degree courses is not viable for degree colleges,” said G Nagaiah, president, Telangana Degree Colleges Managements Association. According to officials, there are 1,090 degree colleges in Telangana of which 750 are located in rural areas. TSCHE is also planning to conclude the common entrance tests (CETs) by August-end and commence admissions for degree courses simultaneously. It is likely to issue the notification for degree admission services over the next few days once CET dates are finalised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tsche-may-adopt-blended-learning/articleshow/77174693.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Over 2.62 lakh challans for violation of Covid-19 norms||JAIPUR: Under the Rajasthan Epidemic Disease Ordinance, more than 2.62 lakh people have been issued challans so far and a total fine of Rs 4.13 crore has been collected for non-compliance of Covid norms. DGP Bhupendra Singh said that 7,315 persons have been arrested so far by registering 3,502 FIRs for violating prohibitory orders and quarantine norms.  According to the data provided by the police department, 1.11 lakh people have been issued challans for not wearing masks in public places, 8,800 people have been issued challans for selling goods to those who were not wearing masks and 1.41 lakh people were issued challans for not maintaining safe physical distance.  “Action has been taken against people for spitting, consuming alcohol, gutkha and tobacco in public places,” said a statement issued by the police department.  Under the Motor Vehicles Act, challans were issued to over 6.28 lakh vehicles and 1.51 lakh vehicles were seized. Over Rs 10.81 crore fine has been collected so far, read the statement. Singh also informed that 22,312 persons were arrested in the state for disruption of law and order. So far, 218 cases have been registered for misuse of social media and prosecution has been started against 300 anti-social elements and 227 have been arrested.  Under the Essential Commodities Act, 95 shopkeepers were arrested, 139 cases were filed and 42 were chargesheeted for indulging in black-marketing during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-2-62l-challans-for-violation-of-covid-norms/articleshow/77175949.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Navy training undergoes a sea change||KOCHI: As Covid-19 has affected the training of personnel in Indian Navy, the Southern Naval Command (SNC) Kochi, the sole training command of the Navy, has made alterations in its training methods and schedules to keep its activities running. In order to avoid interruption in training, which could lead to a shortfall of human resources in the force and difficulty in filling the new vacancies, the Navy has taken several measures, including cancellation of 30-day leave of trainees, extending training time till evening, adhering to online education, etc. However, the incoming of foreign navy personnel for training, which plays a major role in the bilateral relations between India and other countries, has been stopped and new batches will be admitted only by mid-August, that too only if the situation is conducive. Only those foreign navy personnel, who have reached before the lockdown, are undergoing training now and many of them have returned. Rear Admiral Antony George, Chief Staff Officer (Training), SNC, told TOI that the training activities came to a standstill only for less than two weeks in the initial phase of the lockdown and the Navy could restart the training by adhering to Covid-19 protocol. Also, a new training course for battlefield nursing assistants to train non-medical personnel to work as force multipliers in the fight against Covid-19 has also been started by the SNC. “Training schedules and course commencement dates have got amended and schedules got staggered. But we cannot shut the actions as training activities will have a ripple effect demanding continuous process of people getting trained and passed out to meet the operational requirements. These courses include that of fresher’s and also those necessary for promotion. It was challenging to restructure the patterns to continue training but we have been successful so far,” George said. All movements of trainees between training establishments situated in various states are done with the help of naval ships and Air Force planes. Even if road transport is opted between short distant centres, all supplies, including meals, are provided to avoid stops in between. Course material are also shared through Navy’s intranet to minimise travel. “Talks are on with Railways to add exclusive compartments for trainees in passenger trains to avoid contact between them and civilian passengers. Cancelling leave has two aims – to prevent the trainees’ risk of infection and to avoid losing training days for their quarantine days once they return. At present, around 10,000 trainees, including around 250 foreign navy personnel, are under the SNC,” the officer said. In the diving school, swimming pools are now exclusively for divers and are closed for other personnel. Also, unique diving sets, including fins, oxygen masks and suits are provided to each trainee and are instructed not to interchange. Social distancing is followed in all indoor and outdoor sessions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/navy-training-undergoes-a-sea-change/articleshow/77178554.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Kozhikode||Navy training undergoes a sea change||KOCHI: As Covid-19 has affected the training of personnel in Indian Navy, the Southern Naval Command (SNC) Kochi, the sole training command of the Navy, has made alterations in its training methods and schedules to keep its activities running. In order to avoid interruption in training, which could lead to a shortfall of human resources in the force and difficulty in filling the new vacancies, the Navy has taken several measures, including cancellation of 30-day leave of trainees, extending training time till evening, adhering to online education, etc. However, the incoming of foreign navy personnel for training, which plays a major role in the bilateral relations between India and other countries, has been stopped and new batches will be admitted only by mid-August, that too only if the situation is conducive. Only those foreign navy personnel, who have reached before the lockdown, are undergoing training now and many of them have returned. Rear Admiral Antony George, Chief Staff Officer (Training), SNC, told TOI that the training activities came to a standstill only for less than two weeks in the initial phase of the lockdown and the Navy could restart the training by adhering to Covid-19 protocol. Also, a new training course for battlefield nursing assistants to train non-medical personnel to work as force multipliers in the fight against Covid-19 has also been started by the SNC. “Training schedules and course commencement dates have got amended and schedules got staggered. But we cannot shut the actions as training activities will have a ripple effect demanding continuous process of people getting trained and passed out to meet the operational requirements. These courses include that of fresher’s and also those necessary for promotion. It was challenging to restructure the patterns to continue training but we have been successful so far,” George said. All movements of trainees between training establishments situated in various states are done with the help of naval ships and Air Force planes. Even if road transport is opted between short distant centres, all supplies, including meals, are provided to avoid stops in between. Course material are also shared through Navy’s intranet to minimise travel. “Talks are on with Railways to add exclusive compartments for trainees in passenger trains to avoid contact between them and civilian passengers. Cancelling leave has two aims – to prevent the trainees’ risk of infection and to avoid losing training days for their quarantine days once they return. At present, around 10,000 trainees, including around 250 foreign navy personnel, are under the SNC,” the officer said. In the diving school, swimming pools are now exclusively for divers and are closed for other personnel. Also, unique diving sets, including fins, oxygen masks and suits are provided to each trainee and are instructed not to interchange. Social distancing is followed in all indoor and outdoor sessions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/navy-training-undergoes-a-sea-change/articleshow/77178553.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara registers 121 cases, 2 deaths||KOLHAPUR: Satara district has registered 121 fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths since late Friday. Of the total number of new cases, Karad tehsil has reported 51 cases. With this, the district’s Covid count has reached 2,973, of which, 1,267 are currently active. The district has reported 103 casualties so far. District civil surgeon Dr. Amol Gadikar, in a communication, said that a 52-year-old man from Mharul village of Mahabaleshwar tehsil and a 68-year-old man from Wai succumbed to the Covid infection on Saturday. In addition, the swab report of a suspected Covid patient is awaited. Karad tehsil recorded more than 50 Covid cases on a single day. While 11 new cases were found in Karad town, positive patients were also found in surrounding villages like Shamgaon, Malkapur, Atke and Kalwade. Saidapur registered six new coronavirus cases while Karvi reported nine. Kalgaon also witnessed five new patients. Khandala tehsil reported 14 cases with nine of them from Shirval. Jawli tehsil, too, recorded ten cases, of which, six are from Dapwade and four from Saygaon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-registers-121-cases-2-deaths/articleshow/77174699.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Nurses stage protest, seek better safety gear||VIJAYAWADA: Nurses at Tenali government hospital staged a protest on Saturday demanding better safety gear to deal with Covid-19 patients. The nurses alleged that they have been working in “dangerous circumstances”. Head nurse Lakshmi said, “The hospital is full of Covid-19 patients but we do not even have proper drinking water facility. Often some of the patients are found roaming around the hospital looking for drinking water,” she claimed. Lakshmi further said, the skewed patient-staff ratio is affecting service. “We are not even being provided with enough gloves and sanitizers. We are having to buy our gloves and sanitizers” she alleged. Added to this there are not enough number of washrooms in the hospital, said the nurses. “We have been working with one set of kit throughout the day. Many of us are not even using the washroom as we do not have a change of PPEs. The problem is worse for those who are on their periods” said Lakshmi. Pointing out that they are not only serving patients but having to do extra duty, the protesting nurses alleged that they are doing the work of lab technician and pharmacist as well as their positions have been vacant for a while. “Many of us have already contracted the virus and this cannot go on like this. We are asking for basic things like a room for nurses, proper safety kits, washrooms and drinking water” Laxmi said. One of the nurses complained that although they have earlier brought the issues to the notice of higher authorities, little has changed. She, moreover, claimed that those who raise their voices are often harassed and their duties are changed abruptly. The nurses resumed work after the hospital superintendent Dr Samath Kumari assured them all their problems will be addressed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/nurses-stage-protest-seek-better-safety-gear/articleshow/77173846.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Kochi||Navy training undergoes a sea change||KOCHI: As Covid-19 has affected the training of personnel in Indian Navy, the Southern Naval Command (SNC) Kochi, the sole training command of the Navy, has made alterations in its training methods and schedules to keep its activities running. In order to avoid interruption in training, which could lead to a shortfall of human resources in the force and difficulty in filling the new vacancies, the Navy has taken several measures, including cancellation of 30-day leave of trainees, extending training time till evening, adhering to online education, etc. However, the incoming of foreign navy personnel for training, which plays a major role in the bilateral relations between India and other countries, has been stopped and new batches will be admitted only by mid-August, that too only if the situation is conducive. Only those foreign navy personnel, who have reached before the lockdown, are undergoing training now and many of them have returned. Rear Admiral Antony George, Chief Staff Officer (Training), SNC, told TOI that the training activities came to a standstill only for less than two weeks in the initial phase of the lockdown and the Navy could restart the training by adhering to Covid-19 protocol. Also, a new training course for battlefield nursing assistants to train non-medical personnel to work as force multipliers in the fight against Covid-19 has also been started by the SNC. “Training schedules and course commencement dates have got amended and schedules got staggered. But we cannot shut the actions as training activities will have a ripple effect demanding continuous process of people getting trained and passed out to meet the operational requirements. These courses include that of fresher’s and also those necessary for promotion. It was challenging to restructure the patterns to continue training but we have been successful so far,” George said. All movements of trainees between training establishments situated in various states are done with the help of naval ships and Air Force planes. Even if road transport is opted between short distant centres, all supplies, including meals, are provided to avoid stops in between. Course material are also shared through Navy’s intranet to minimise travel. “Talks are on with Railways to add exclusive compartments for trainees in passenger trains to avoid contact between them and civilian passengers. Cancelling leave has two aims – to prevent the trainees’ risk of infection and to avoid losing training days for their quarantine days once they return. At present, around 10,000 trainees, including around 250 foreign navy personnel, are under the SNC,” the officer said. In the diving school, swimming pools are now exclusively for divers and are closed for other personnel. Also, unique diving sets, including fins, oxygen masks and suits are provided to each trainee and are instructed not to interchange. Social distancing is followed in all indoor and outdoor sessions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/navy-training-undergoes-a-sea-change/articleshow/77173847.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Pune||Civic body to act against unauthorized vendors, stalls||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is set to intensify action at locations that have unauthorized vegetable vendors and roadside stalls. The steps are being planned to ensure a crowd does not gather at these stalls as lockdown restrictions are lifted. Recently, citizens had informed officials of the civic body about overcrowding at some spots on Sinhagad road, Market Yard, Satara road and the area near Mahatma Phule Market. Teams have been set up to keep a vigil at these locations. Only authorized stalls are permitted to operate on designated roads, the officials said. In its latest order, the PMC has permitted vegetable markets and farmers’ markets to be set up at designated locations so that essential commodities are available to residents in the area. Madhav Jagtap, head of PMC’s anti encroachment department, said, “Action will be intensified against unauthorized vendors. Our teams will monitor roads that are still kept free as a precautionary measure. We also want authorized vendors to open their shops only at designated places. People can approach the department to register grievances about illegal vendors and crowding,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-to-act-against-unauthorized-vendors-stalls/articleshow/77175939.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Covid-19: Kolhapur city now worst hit in district||KOLHAPUR: Kolhapur city now has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the district. A majority of these cases are being reported from residential apartments. On Saturday afternoon, Kolhapur city had 677 Covid-19 cases, surpassing the textile town of Ichalkaranji, which has 672 cases. While Ichalkaranji continues to report the highest number of deaths, Kolhapur city has reported half as many. Till the beginning of July, Kolhapur city had very few Covid-19 cases despite a large number of people returning from the red zone areas during the lockdown. However, in the past two weeks, the spike has been sharp and mainly due to local transmission. Several hotspots have developed within the city such as Kasba Bawda’s Line Bazaar area, Kadamwadi and some parts of the trading centre in Gandhinagar, which is under the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation’s jurisdiction. The death rate of the district is 2.70% while the Kolhapur city’s Covid death rate at 2.71%. So far, the KMC has completed four rounds of the door-to-door survey to find people with possible Covid-19 infection. The officials claim that negligence by the citizens is a major reason for the rising cases. The Kolhapur city is currently under a total lockdown of seven days, which ends on Sunday. Authorities expect the cases to reduce four to six days after the end of the lockdown. Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti said, “We have increased the number of staff on the ground to trace contacts. We had taken swift action after Covid-19 cases started being reported in the city. We are going to hire more doctors and nursing staff. The orders to acquire 27 private hospitals have been issued and six officials have been given the task of the coordination to ensure that the citizens do not face the issue of non-availability of the beds.” Kalshetti said that from the start, more attention was given on the slum areas, for which separate teams were sent on the ground and mobile clinic van was launched to find suspected cases. So far, there has not been a major spike in the slum areas. The cases are coming from the colonies and apartments where the index patients are mostly those who have returned from the red zone areas such as Mumbai and Pune. Also, many cases have their origin of contraction traced to hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-city-now-worst-hit-in-district/articleshow/77174709.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Pune||Pune municipal corporation seeks staff from other departments for coronavirus work||PUNE: Rapid rise in Covid-19 cases and infection among civic staffers have prompted the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to seek manpower from other government departments and district administration for Covid-related work. “We have written letters to various government departments and also to the district administration seeking their support. Many government departments are not still directly involved in Covid-related work. The deployment of officers and staffers from these offices can help strengthen ongoing mitigation measures,” a senior PMC official confirmed. Sources in the civic administration said Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited had already offered to deploy over 4,000 staffers for the Covid work in the city. Besides, the civic body has sourced many staffers attached to other departments like water supply, road development, education, building permission and electrical in the Covid-related work. The head of these departments are managing the Covid responsibilities while the engineers, clerks and other staffers are working in various capacities at the civic wards for containment measures. Earlier this week, 12 civic health staffers had tested positive for coronavirus and currently under quarantine. “The chances of getting the infection cannot be ruled out as many frontline staffers are out on the field almost for eight hours in a day,” a civic official said. The civic body has promised Suraksha Kavach (insurance) of up to Rs 1 crore for the death of a staffer due to Covid-19, 100% reimbursement of medical bills, special leave with 14-day home quarantine for positive staffers. For the contractual workers, treatment of Covid is free of cost and they will get paid leave. “About 168 employees have been discharged so far after treatment and completion of quarantine period,” Shivaji Daundkar, head of PMC’s labour department, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-seeks-staff-from-other-depts-for-coronavirus-work/articleshow/77175950.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Drop in Solapur rural’s Covid-19 mortality rate||KOLHAPUR: Solapur district collector Milind Shambharkar said the Covid-19 mortality rate of the Solapur rural, which was the highest in Maharashtra few days, has dropped from 10% in last month to 6% at present. Solapur municipal commissioner P Shivshankar also said the death rate in Solapur city has come down to 5% from 20%. He said the number of casualties due to the infection has come down in the past few days Speaking a special drive of rapid antigen test on Friday, which was also attended by Shivshankar, Shambharkar said the number of Covid-19 cases has been increasing in the past few days as the administration was conducting large scale rapid antigen test to identify Covid patients. P Shivshankar observed of the total people taking the anitgen tests, 5% to 7% are testing positive. Meanwhile Solapur city reported 96 new Covid patients on Saturday evening, including 60 men and 36 woman, taking the total number of cases to 4,401. The city also registered four Covid deaths, taking the death toll to 342. According to the official communication, three deceased were above the of 70 years while one was 36-year-old. In Solapur city, prabhag 24 has the highest number of cases – 265 patients and prabhag 11 has the lowest number of cases – 71 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/drop-in-solapur-rurals-covid-19-mortality-rate/articleshow/77174732.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Two arrested in suicide case||KOLHAPUR: Panchgani police have arrested two people in connection with the suicide of Prashant Shinde, a resident of Panchgani. Police said that they have registered offences against six people, of which, four are on the run. The arrested suspects have been identified as Aditya Parkhe and Shankar Kamble. They were arrested following a complaint lodged by Shinde’s son. He told police that his father was being harassed and threatened by a few people over financial transaction. Following the threats, the victim had committed suicide by consuming poison. According to the complaint, Shinde had taken money from some private money lenders, including Kambale. The complainant also told police that his deceased father was duped by a financial company from whom he had sought a loan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/2-arrested-in-suicide-case/articleshow/77174718.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Goa||‘Why delay in issuing circular for teachers?’||Panaji: Goa Forward Party (GFP) on Saturday welcomed the directorate of education’s circular permitting teaching and non-teaching staff to work from home till July 31. However, the party questioned the state’s delay in adopting the Centre’s guidelines and asked if the circular was issued only because Covid-19 cases were detected in the school where a top BJP politician’s wife works. GFP vice-president Durgadas Kamat said that the pressure put by the opposition had finally borne fruit. “Finally. Order regarding work from home for teaching and non-teaching staff has been issued after relentless follow-up by Goa Forward Party,” said Kamat. Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) has permitted teachers to continue working from home, but the state disregarded the guidelines and directed teaching and non-teaching staff to report to work. GFP had then said that chief minister Pramod Sawant, chief secretary Parimal Rai and education director Vandana Rao will be responsible if more staff get infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/why-delay-in-issuing-circular-for-teachers/articleshow/77175964.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Allahabad||Covid patient dies by suicide in hosp||Prayagraj. A 28-year-old man, who had tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to the SRN hospital, died by suicide on Friday. According to reports, the patient was a resident of Fatehpur. He reportedly slashed his wrist and succumbed to his injury in the Covid ICU of the hospital on Friday afternoon. Around the same time, an elderly woman who had also tested positive for Covid-19 died at the SRN hospital. The man was admitted to the Hospital on July 21 in ward number ten. He was suffering from a kidney ailment and was undergoing dialysis at the hospital. He is said to have gone to the bathroom on Friday morning where he died by suicide. After noticing that the patient had been gone for an unusually long period of time, other patients and hospital staff opened the bathroom door and found the man lying in a pool of blood. He was rushed to Covid ICU where he died around 3pm. “The man cut his wrist in the bathroom on Friday morning and was admitted to the Covid ICU where he died in the afternoon”, said nodal officer of SRN Hospital’s corona ward Dr Sujit Verma Principal of MLN Medical College Dr SP Singh said, “The patient was suffering from a kidney ailment. We tried to save him by giving blood but unfortunately he died.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/covid-patient-dies-by-suicide-in-hosp/articleshow/77175127.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt appoints administrator for Sabarmati varsity||Ahmedabad: The state education department has decided to appoint a senior government official as administrator for Sabarmati University (formerly known as Calorx Teachers’ University) to look into irregularities. The decision has been taken after a four-member committee set up by the government, found that the university was illegally awarding PhD and MPhil degrees to candidates. M Nagarajan, director of higher education has been appointed as the administrator of the varsity. “We have received several complaints in the past about malpractices being carried out at the varsity in handing out PhD and MPhil degrees as a result we have decided to appoint an administrator. While on paper the university is run by Calorx group, we are trying to ascertain who the real management trustees are,” said Anju Sharma, principal secretary, higher and technical education. Nagarajan will look into the various financial irregularities, especially selling of degrees to PhD and MPhil candidates. A probe committee was set up last year after the education department received complaints alleging that degrees were sold in exchange for money. According to the report submitted by the committee recently, PhD students were being admitted without entrance test. Other irregularities include awarding PhDs in less than three years, passing off internal guides as external guides, giving degrees out of turn for MPhil candidates and even ‘selling’ doctoral degrees to students from other states, said sources. The investigation team’s report states that the university authorities had attempted to obtain the status of a private university from Sikkim government by giving false and misleading information. The promoters, whose names were submitted to the Sikkim government, upon investigation, turned out to be those of the registrar and principal of the college. The government has in the past received complaints that the university has issued nearly 1,500 PhDs and 800-odd MPhil degrees to students outside Gujarat, in a very short period of time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-appoints-administrator-for-sabarmati-varsity/articleshow/77174741.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Drunk kills friend, tries to burn body||MANGALURU: A person, who murdered his best friend in a drunken brawl, later tried to burn the body in his backyard in Punchalakadu, Kaup, Udupi district. The incident took place on Friday evening and the accused has been arrested, said police. The victim is Hemanth Poojary, 45, a resident of Yermal and the accused is Albert D’Souza, 55, a resident of Punchalakadu. While the accused is a driver, the victim was unemployed. Police said the duo were close friends and used to drink together. On Friday afternoon, both got drunk after visiting a bar in Kaup and they came to Albert’s house. Albert is a bachelor and stayed alone. After reaching home, both quarrelled over a petty issue. In the melee, police said Albert hit Hemanth’s head with a log and he died instantly. To hide the crime, Albert took the body to the backyard and tried to burn it using wood. However, locals who saw billowing smoke grew suspicious and informed police in the evening. Police doused the fire after visiting the spot. Several parts of the body were charred and have been sent for post-mortem. Before police arrived, Albert had fled and was arrested on Saturday morning. Shirva police are investigating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/drunk-kills-friend-tries-to-burn-body/articleshow/77175929.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Jaipur||Barmer, Jaisalmer intensify fight against the pandemic||Jaisalmer: Looking at the increasing cases of coronavirus infection in Barmer and Jaisalmer districts, both district administrations have taken various preventive measures. Meanwhile, nine BSF jawans were tested during the battalion shuffling in Barmer.In Jaisalmer district, nine teams have been deployed to implement the guidelines and to spread awareness. Similarly, at the borders of Jaisalmer district adjoining the hotspots Barmer, Jodhpur and Bikaner, check posts have made to conduct thermal screening of the people coming from these districts and if required, take samples, for which additional teams have been deployed. On Friday, a special team including UIT secretary Anurag Bhargav, additional SP Rakesh Bairwa and municipal council Fateh Singh Meeha among other officers visited Jaisalmer city and started the awareness campaign and took action against those flouting rules. Similarly to stop coronavirus infection in Barmer district, a special awareness campaign has been launched in which the awareness message is being carried to the general public through sweet boxes. The increasing coronavirus cases in Jaisalmer is making the general public worried due to which district collector Ashish Modi and SP Dr Ajay Singh held a press conference to assure the people to not be scared of the virus. They said, in Jaisalmer community spread is not taking place. All the cases have a travel history and have come into contact with infected persons. He said the district administration and health department are alert. Samples of people coming from other places are being taken. The number of samples collected has been increased due to which the cases are increasing. Till June, total 14,000 samples were taken while from July 1 to July 23, about 9,000 samples have been taken and till now, more than 23,000 samples have been taken. The rate of corona infection in Jaisalmer is 0.07%, which means there has been one case on every 750 people. Nine teams have been made for urban and rural areas. Municipal council in urban area and development officers in rural areas, among others are working to implement the Covid guidelines on a war footing. Action is being taken against those who are not wearing masks and not following social distancing. He has appealed to the general public to follow the guidelines so as to fight the infection. SP Dr Singh said there is no need to be scared of the virus, but prevention has to be done. He said police will take strict action against people not wearing masks and will penalise them. He said check posts have been set up at the borders of Jodhpur, Bikaner and Barmer adjoining Jaisalmer district. People coming from these districts will be checked and police will take contact history, phone number and other details from the migrants.He said they will get forms filled up for people coming from hotspots like Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Surat, Bangalore and will carry out the medical screening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/barmer-jaisalmer-intensify-fight-against-the-pandemic/articleshow/77175965.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra home minister presents 85-year-old social media star Rs 1 lakh & sari after video goes viral||PUNE: State home minister Anil Deshmukh presented 85-year-old Shantabai Pawar (85) with a sum of Rs 1 lakh and a sari on Saturday after a video of her performing by the roadside to make ends meet went viral on social media recently. Deshmukh visited Pawar at her residence in Hadapsar on Saturday afternoon and felicitated her in the presence of police commissioner K Venkatesham and joint police commissioner Ravindra Shisve. Hadapsar MLA Chetan Tupe and NCP spokesperson Pradeep Deshmukh also accompanyied the home minister. “I specifically travelled to Hadapsar to meet her. She is a senior citizen and is working hard to fend for her family. I met her granddaughter and asked her to take care of Shantabai. She should not be going out to work in such a situation,” he said. “Our local political workers will look after her,” the minister assured. After visiting her, Deshmukh said, “The Bharosa cell of the Pune police has provided timely help to over 15,000 senior citizens in the last few months.” The city’s residents showered Pawar with appreciation and help, in the form of food grains and other edibles. An overwhelmed Pawar admitted that she was very happy after the home minister visited her. Deshmukh also held a closed-door meeting with top officials from the Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and rural police units. A senior police officer told TOI that Deshmukh took stock of the Covid-19 spread in Pune city and district. During the meeting, Deshmukh encouraged police officers to use digital technology to keep tabs on criminals and miscreants. He praised the efforts of the Pune police for using the ExTra (Tracking of Externees) application, which is used to keep track of externed criminals. Watch 85-year-old roadside performer receives Rs 1 lakh and saree after video went viral||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/home-minister-presents-85-year-old-social-media-star-rs-1l-sari-after-video-goes-viral/articleshow/77175959.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Goa||Civic bodies to get SOP on handling Covid-19 cases isolated at home||PANAJI: With the government permitting home isolation for asymptomatic cases, the directorate of municipal administration (DMA) has issued instructions and guidelines for urban local bodies on how to handle garbage and monitor asymptomatic Covid-19 patients who are being treated at home. The DMA has also issued instructions for training of solid waste management teams as more and more asymptomatic patients are expected to be isolated at home. “Instructions have been issued plus training is also being done. Most of the municipal bodies are putting in place protocols to handle such patients,” said a government official. While at present very few Covid-19 patients have been allowed to remain at home, the number is expected to increase in the coming days. Authorities will coordinate and ensure that a list of all the Covid-19 patients isolated at home is shared with the respective urban local bodies on a daily basis. Corporation of the City of Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said that officially he has not received the standard operating protocols for asymptomatic patients, but had heard that some instructions have been issued. Madkaikar said that he would be writing a letter to the directorate of health services with a request that civic bodies should be kept in the loop before permission is given for people to be isolated at home. “The main thing is that any person being isolated at home should have individual toilets. If the person is using community toilets then it defeats the purpose,” said Madkaikar. He said that a Covid-19 patient was detected on July 19, but the health department submitted the report a day later. “It is very shocking how the health department cannot inform the corporator concerned or the CCP on the same day,” said Madkaikar. He said that even the locals in that ward did not know about the person who tested Covid-19 positive. “It is a request to the health department to inform us on the very same day so that we can prevent the virus from spreading,” the mayor said. On Wednesday, chief minister Pramod Sawant had said that Covid patients can opt for home quarantine themselves if they desire by applying online for permission for the same from the deputy collector concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/civic-bodies-to-get-sop-on-handling-covid-19-cases-isolated-at-home/articleshow/77175954.cms||Newton Sequeira
July 26, 2020||Mangaluru||Covid-19: 400 test positive on coast, 8 fatalities in Dakshina Kannada||MANGALURU/UDUPI: Covid-19 cases continued to surge in Dakshina Kannada(DK) and Udupi with the two districts recording 400 out of 5,027 positive cases that Karnataka reported on Saturday. While Dakshina Kannada contributed to 218 of the cases, Udupi reported 188 fresh cases. The Covid-19 related deaths continued unabated in DK with the district administration reporting eight more fatalities on Saturday. The fresh cases meant that DK fortified its number two position in the state after Bengaluru Urban with 4,612 positive cases while the total positive cases in Udupi stood at 3,218. The total number of Covid and non-Covid related deaths in DK inched closer to the dubious 100 mark with 99 deaths so far, including 97 categorised as Covid and Covid-related and two due to non-Covid reasons. Backing efforts of the district administration in handling the pandemic, district minister Kota Shrinivas Poojari said it is rather unfortunate that people with high co-morbidities in the last stage of their lives are being referred for treatment in the district that is a tertiary care centre. “This is a situation that the district authorities, despite the best of medical facilities, is finding difficult to handle,” Kota said, adding medical experts are doing their best to save lives. A total 87 of the 218 cases in DK were categorised as people suffering from influenza-like illness (ILI), and the source of how 70 people contracted the disease is being traced, 46 are primary contacts of infected patients, and 15 are diagnosed as suffering from severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). Seven of the eight victims who died on Thursday and Friday are residents of Mangaluru, and the eighth one, a 53-year-old woman, is from Manjeshwar, said deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh. The discharge of 140 patients during the day meant active cases in DK now stands at 2,370 and total patients discharged thus far is 2,127. Udupi on the other hand has 1,199 active cases with 2,008 patients discharged thus far, including 79 patients on Saturday. In all, 539 patients are in home quarantine, Udupi DC G Jagadeesha said. The respective district administrations reminded the people that the Sunday lockdown will be in force on July 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/400-test-ve-on-coast-8-fatalities-in-dk/articleshow/77173854.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 26, 2020||Jaipur||Coronavirus may deal a fatal blow to tongas in Jaipur||JAIPUR: For the tonga-wallahs of Jaipur, who were already fighting a lost battle for existence, the coronavirus pandemic has turned out to be the last straw. There were nine tongas in Jaipur, that served as a tourist attraction at Albert Hall. Due to the adverse impact on tourism, five of the tonga owners have sold their horses and the remaining are also planning to do the same. Chuttan Khan, a 67-year-old tonga-wallah sold his horse for Rs 60,000 last month. “I can either feed the horse or myself. Around Rs 250 is required to feed grass to the horse every day. Since the pandemic, I haven’t earned even Rs 100 from this tonga. What was I supposed to do?” said Khan. Noor Mohammad, another tonga driver, said that he borrowed money on Thursday to feed his horse. “I haven’t got any customers in last two weeks. People are scared to go for a ride due to coronavirus. I am fourth generation from my family in this business but I have kept my children away from it. Already, the business was low and from public transport, we became mere tourist attraction. I don’t think we can bear the pandemic. If I get a good price, I won’t mind selling my horse too,” he said. Around 20 years back, there used to be 4,000 tongas in Jaipur. With development in transportation, mini buses, electric rickshaws, the craze for the tongas faded away and their numbers came down. “That was a different era,” recalled Lallu Teli, another tonga driver. “There used to be a licence office at Jaleb Chowk in Walled City. We were given licences, fitness certificates, badges. All the tongas were supposed to be pink in colour symbolizing the Pink City. We used to take customers to Bagru, Chomu and Sanganer for Rs 100 in those times. Most of us are left in the profession because we don’t know anything else to do, but till when?” asked Lallu. Tonga owners used to rent out their horses for weddings and cultural festivals as well. Due to the pandemic, there is high probability of the wedding industry and tourism not reviving for another six months. Maintaining the horses, repairing of tongas will be difficult without any earnings. Thus, it doesn’t seem like a sweeping statement to say that the pandemic may wipe out the existence of tongas from the Pink City.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/virus-may-deal-a-fatal-blow-to-tongas-in-city/articleshow/77175957.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Quarantine centres for disabled, old beggars soon||JAIPUR: The social justice and empowerment department has started the process of identifying quarantine centres in the city for the old-disabled beggars, who will be shifted to the homes run by Apna Ghar in Bharatpur as a part of the state government’s beggar-free Jaipur initiative. As per the reports submitted by the police department and the district collectorate to the social justice department, 1,162 beggars have been identified in Jaipur city for rehabilitation following a survey. “We have requested Nagar Nigam to identify the buildings for quarantining them in a group of 4-5 people. Before shifting them to the rehabilitation centres, they will be kept in quarantine centres for 14 days,” said a senior official in the social justice and empowerment department. The phase-wise rehabilitation will start with disabled-old people followed by women and children. “The housing board has given us a community centre for temporary use in Mansarovar. But, since it is an old building, it will take at least a month’s time to renovate that,” said an official. The Gehlot-led state government had announced in its 2019-20 budget that Jaipur would be made beggar-free. The officials were asked to identify old school buildings, which are no longer in use or other vacant government buildings, for temporary rehabilitation of the beggars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/quarantine-centres-for-disabled-old-beggars-soon/articleshow/77175983.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Collection of plasma stepped up in AP||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state health department has requested patients who have recovered from Covid-19 to come forward and donate their plasma. Special chief secretary, medical and health department, Dr KS Jawahar Reddy said the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has given its approval to collect convalescent plasma at Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences, Tirupati and Government General Hospital (GGH), Kurnool, for utilisation in emergencies. “The state government also applied to the ICMR to conduct plasma trials at GGH in Guntur and Vijayawada. Convalescent plasma could shorten the duration of Covid-19 illness as it would improve immunity. Plasma will be collected only as per guidelines of the ICMR. We request all 43,000 patients, declared cured as of Saturday, to come forward for plasma donation. Plasma collection can, in fact, save the lives of Covid-19 patients in intensive care units,” said the special chief secretary. Dr Reddy said plasma will not be collected from children, the elderly and those with comorbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/collection-of-plasma-stepped-up/articleshow/77178745.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Amaravati||Collection of plasma stepped up in AP||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state health department has requested patients who have recovered from Covid-19 to come forward and donate their plasma. Special chief secretary, medical and health department, Dr KS Jawahar Reddy said the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has given its approval to collect convalescent plasma at Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences, Tirupati and Government General Hospital (GGH), Kurnool, for utilisation in emergencies. “The state government also applied to the ICMR to conduct plasma trials at GGH in Guntur and Vijayawada. Convalescent plasma could shorten the duration of Covid-19 illness as it would improve immunity. Plasma will be collected only as per guidelines of the ICMR. We request all 43,000 patients, declared cured as of Saturday, to come forward for plasma donation. Plasma collection can, in fact, save the lives of Covid-19 patients in intensive care units,” said the special chief secretary. Dr Reddy said plasma will not be collected from children, the elderly and those with comorbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/collection-of-plasma-stepped-up/articleshow/77178744.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Varanasi||Padrauna youth shifts factory back home from Faridabad||Gorakhpur: It’s not only migrant labourers, factories too are getting shifted back to smaller towns from metro cities. A garment factory, established five years ago in Faridabad by a young entrepreneur from the region, has been shifted to Kushinagar’s Padrauna. It will create job opportunity for 55 people, who specialize in dress designing and stitching, as the entrepreneur is all set to launch the products in the market before Holi. Ravishankar Tiwari of Narayanpur village at Paniyahwa Road, around 24 km from the Kushinagar city, had established a garment production unit five years ago in Faridabad. His turnover was around Rs 1 crore before the nationwide lockdown, but after the clampdown, he had to close the factory as migrant labourers working in his unit had shifted to their hometowns. Faced with uncertainties, Tiwari decided it was time to shift base. “It was a major decision of my life. But reposing faith in God, I decided to shift my production unit to my hometown Kushinagar after discussing the matter with my workers who wholeheartedly supported my decision,” Tiwari told TOI on Saturday. “I have brought most of the machines back from Faridabad on trucks. The factory is being set up on my farming land near Paniyahwa Road,” said Tiwari. “ I am determined to start the factory during Diwali, and will launch the finished products in the market before Holi. We make jeans, pant-shirts, lower, etc., which have a huge demand even in small towns,” said Tiwari. “The GST number will be the same and only the address of the production unit will be changed,” he added. Tiwari said though his production base was in NCR, most of his products were sold in East UP istricts. “I think I’ll be in profit. I have already brought a big generator from Faridabad. Here, power expenses are much less compared to NCR besides expenditure on rent will also be saved. It will be a win-win situation for me and my labourers, who will be given residential accommodation on the factory premises itself.” “I will continue ordering fabric, thread, buttons, etc., from Delhi and Gujarat. In Faridabad, stitching was done on 55 machines and I have already brought back 35 machines. Earlier, we were selling 20,000 pieces of garments per month but in Padrouna, I aim to sell 35,000 pieces. My firm is already registered with Flipkart and Amazon and I am selling my products there also,” Tiwari said while explaining the logistics of his business operations. “In Faridabad, I had six experts working for the unit who all are residents of East UP and Bihar. Initially, 55 people will get jobs in Kushinagar unit. I will be able to provide more jobs once the production and the market picks up,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/padrauna-youth-shifts-factory-back-home-from-faridabad/articleshow/77175099.cms||Arjumand Bano
July 26, 2020||Goa||Faleiro calls for virtual House meet||Panaji: Congress MLA and former chief minister Luizinho Faleiro has asked speaker Rajesh Patnekar to, “think out of the box” and call for a virtual assembly session. In a letter to Patnekar Faleiro said that restricting the monsoon assembly session to a single day is unprecedented. “The ensuing session is also slated to discuss the budget which is now a difficult proposition since the session is restricted to just a single day,” said Faleiro. Faleiro said that though the circumstances created by the Covid-19 pandemic are grave and serious, a virtual assembly session would help legislators discuss the budget, the proposed amendment bills and other issues at length. This, said Faleiro, would do justice to the role as a legislators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/faleiro-calls-for-virtual-house-meet/articleshow/77175987.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur lab technician's murder: ‘My wish to tie rakhi on dead brother’s hand’||KANPUR: Sister of Sanjeet Yadav, who was killed by his kidnappers, has expressed the wish of tying rakhi on the body of her brother to mark the upcoming festival of Rakshabandhan. Sanjeet’s body was disposed of in the Pandu river by the kidnappers and is yet to be found. “It’s my humble request to the police, who could not fullfill their promise to bring my brother back alive, to at least fish out Sanjeet’s body so that I could tie rakhi on his hand for the last time,” Ruchi said while talking to the reporters here on Saturday. Ruchi broke down and alleged that during investigation, one of the police officers had made a disparaging remark against her, using crude language saying that she had conspired her brother’s kidnapping. The remark, has shocked family members, relatives and locals of the area. Anand, a city-based lawyer, who stays in the vicinity, told TOI that these remarks demonstrated the “unlawful behaviour” of the police. “If they behaved like this before a common man, people would soon lose faith in police system,” he said. Meanwhile, a group of eunuchs also visited the family of Sanjeet here on Saturday and assured all support. The eunuch group met the deceased’s family for 30 minutes in the afternoon and condemned the incident and also assured all support to the family of the victim. After meeting with the family, eunuch Sonam targeted the police and said, “The way in which the crime against our brother happened is very sad. crime is at a peak during the present government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/sanjeet-murder-sister-wishes-to-tie-rakhi-on-dead-brothers-wrist/articleshow/77175258.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 26, 2020||Allahabad||Probe if tribal girls forced into immoral activities: HC||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court has directed the district magistrate as well as the chairman, District Legal Services Authority, Chitrakoot, to inquire into the incident of minor tribal girls, who are working in illegal mines, allegedly being forced into immoral activities against meagre wages. Dr. Abhishek Atrey, a practicing advocate at Supreme Court, had sent an e-mail addressed to the Chief Justice of the high court. The same was treated as a petition for writ in public interest. Hearing the PIL, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Saumitra Dayal Singh directed both the DM, Chitrakoot and as well as chairman, District Legal Services Authority, Chitrakoot to submit their separate reports by July 28. The court also directed the registry of this court to send a notice of the petition to the DM, Chitrakoot and chairman, District Legal Services Authority of Chitrakoot by fax within two days and fixed July 28 as the next date of hearing of the case. In the email, it was stated citing media reports that in Chitrakoot district, minor girls have been forced to enter immoral activities against meagre wages. In addition to it, serious allegations were levelled pertaining to violation of Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act, 1986. As per some media reports, minor girls from poor tribal families are forced to work in illegal mines of Chitrakoot district for survival, but the contractors and middlemen do not pay their wages easily. These girls are forced to trade off their bodies in exchange for their meagre wages. Passing the above directives, the court observed, “Having considered the material available on record, we deem it appropriate to direct the district magistrate, Chitrakoot and the chairman, District Legal Services Authority, Chitrakoot to inquire into the entire matter as referred in the report given by some media groups.” The court passed this order on July 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/probe-if-tribal-girls-forced-into-immoral-activities-hc/articleshow/77175124.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
July 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Gachibowli deafening, Hyderabad’s noise pollution levels hit roof||HYDERABAD: Listed as a ‘sensitize zone’ in official records, the upscale Gachibowli area of Hyderabad recorded noise levels of 78.1 decibel (dB) during the night, last month — 95% higher than the permissible limit of 40dB. Even day time levels here were 39% above the normal 50dB allowed during these hours, show data available with the Telangana State Pollution Control Board (TSPCB). The TSPCB records reveal many residential and commercial pockets of Hyderabad saw their noise pollution numbers cross the 70dB mark — where prolonged exposure can lead to loss of hearing — during May and June. Among them were Paradise circle and Abids that registered 71.9dB (at night) and 71.1dB (during the day), in June. Jubilee Hills too came close to the dangerously high figure as it recorded an average noise level of 68.4dB during the day in May. Even the Zoo Park area touched 68.2dB (at night) last month. Among the 11 areas where monitoring stations have been placed across the city, data from all except the industrial areas were found to be above permissible limits — which ranges from 40-65dB. For industrial areas it is 70-75dB. A key reasons for this is residential areas also becoming hubs for commercial activity, said Dasari Prasad, a TSPCB scientist. “The demarcation laid down between residential and commercial spaces is slowly fading. This is one of the main reasons we are witnessing high noise levels even in residential areas. The increased commercial activity, coupled with vehicular traffic, use of electric appliances like lawn mowers, grinders and other machinery has resulting in more noise pollution,” he said. Doctors too add a word of caution. Speaking to STOI, Dr KV Ravi Kishore, senior ENT surgeon, Deccan Hospital said that exposure to sound over 70dB for eight hours can cause hearing loss. This is because regular exposure to noise can damage hair cells in the inner ear or cochlea. “The initial symptom is ringing sound in the ears (tinnitus) which could progress to noise-induced hearing loss. Increased noise levels can cause sleep disturbances, heart problems and behaviour problems,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gachibowli-deafening-hyds-noise-pollution-levels-hit-roof/articleshow/77175997.cms||Uttara Varma
July 26, 2020||Pune||47 more succumb to Covid-19 in Pune, tally nears 67,000||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Saturday added 2,891 Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 66,965. Besides, 47 more patients succumbed to the infection in the last 24 hours, pushing the region’s toll up to 1,672. Of the fresh cases, 1,479 were recorded in Pune municipal limits, 1,041 in Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits and 371 in the rural and Cantonment areas together. The number of patients has now increased above 43,000 in PMC limits and 15,000 in PCMC limits. The total tally for rural and Cantonment areas stands at 7,876. In PMC limits, 693 patients were discharged on Saturday after they were declared cured. With this, the number of patients discharged in the municipal areas has increased to 27,348. “The number of critical patients surged to 673 by Saturday evening. The active cases also increased to 18,494 in the last 24 hours,” a civic official said. The PMC conducted 6,090 tests on Saturday, including rapid antigen tests. Among the deceased, the youngest patient to succumb to the infection in the last 24 hours was a 36-year-old man from the Market Yard area, while the eldest was an 86-year-old man from Mangalwar Peth. The other deceased included a 75-year-old woman from Phursungi, a 76-year-old woman from the Mhatre bridge area, a 53-year-old man from Sinhagad Road, a 49-year-old woman from Hadapsar, a 67-year-old woman from Kharadi, a 44-year-old woman from Ambegaon Budruk, a 71-year-old man from Kothrud, a 64-year-old man from Wadgaon Budruk, an 80-year-old man from the Navi Peth area, a 78-year-old woman from Koregaon Park and a 60-year-old man from Vadgaonsheri. The patients who died at the Sassoon General Hospital and other government-run hospitals included a 58-year-old man from Phursungi, an 85-year-old man from Kasba Peth, a 48-year-old woman from Aundh Road, a 55-year-old man from Kothrud, a 75-year-old man from Dhankawdi, a 60-year-old man from Katraj, a 62-year-old woman from Khadki, a 63-year-old man from Khadki and a 75-year-old man from Guruwar Peth. In this month so far, as many as 44,536 people have tested positive in PMR, while 909 people have succumbed to the contagion at various hospitals in the region. As for the discharged, a total of 27,566 people have been cured in PMR this month so far. Health officials have urged people to wear masks while venturing out and also maintain social distance. “As lockdown is lifted and normalcy returns to civic areas, people need to be extra cautious and abide by the social distancing norms to keep the contagion at bay,” a civic official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/47-more-succumb-to-ncov-in-city-tally-nears-67000/articleshow/77175968.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Collection of plasma stepped up in AP||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state health department has requested patients who have recovered from Covid-19 to come forward and donate their plasma. Special chief secretary, medical and health department, Dr KS Jawahar Reddy said the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has given its approval to collect convalescent plasma at Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences, Tirupati and Government General Hospital (GGH), Kurnool, for utilisation in emergencies. “The state government also applied to the ICMR to conduct plasma trials at GGH in Guntur and Vijayawada. Convalescent plasma could shorten the duration of Covid-19 illness as it would improve immunity. Plasma will be collected only as per guidelines of the ICMR. We request all 43,000 patients, declared cured as of Saturday, to come forward for plasma donation. Plasma collection can, in fact, save the lives of Covid-19 patients in intensive care units,” said the special chief secretary. Dr Reddy said plasma will not be collected from children, the elderly and those with comorbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/collection-of-plasma-stepped-up/articleshow/77173866.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Jaipur||Fresh Covid-19 surge in Alwar, 313 infections in just 12 hours||JAIPUR: From rallies to performances by folk artistes, the health department is leaving no stone unturned to create awareness among people in Alwar about containing the spread of Covid-19. Being one of the 10-worst affected Covid-19 districts in the state, Alwar is witnessing a fresh onslaught as in just 12 hours (till morning), 313 new infections were reported. More than 350 asymptomatic people have been kept in home isolation, while 103 others with symptoms are undergoing treatment at four different Covid-care centres. Concerned over the sudden spike in cases in Alwar, the health department has sent its officials to the affected district to take immediate remedial measures. However, close proximity with Delhi and some parts of Haryana, Alwar is at higher risk of becoming an epicentre for Covid-19. A health department official said that a large number of people daily visits Delhi and Gurgaon for work and in the evening they return. Also, Bhiwadi town of Alwar, which is an industrial hub, has also emerged as a place, which is at higher risk of spread of Covid-19. “The sudden spike in Covid-19 cases is due to several reasons, including closeness to Delhi and Haryana and a lot of labour work in industries in Bhiwadi. The frequent movement of people has also contributed to sudden jump in cases,” said Dr Chhabil Kumar, deputy chief medical health officer, Alwar. Exclusive directions have been issued to industries to take extra precautions. They have been asked to conduct daily screening of all the labourers and workers at the entrance of the industry without being careless. The spike in new infections is also the result of extensive Covid-19 testing of contact persons of positive cases. The health authorities have stepped up testing of people, who were in contact with the Covid-19 positive cases. Mobile sampling teams are also at work to conduct random sampling. The focus of the health authorities is also on testing those with influenza-like illness symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fresh-covid-surge-in-alwar-313-infections-in-just-12-hours/articleshow/77176001.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Pune||Pune: Theft, stalking complaints trigger safety concerns at Covid facilities||PUNE/PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Concerns have been raised over the safety and security of coronavirus suspects and patients lodged at makeshift Covid care centres and quarantine facilities in the wake of the recent incidents of theft and stalking. These makeshift facilities are mostly hostels, hotels, schools and lodges, among others, acquired on a temporary basis. Times ViewThe administration should take all the possible steps to ensure safety of Covid-19 patients, especially women, at the quarantine centres. All Covid care hubs should be under the vigil of CCTV cameras. The recent incidents of stalking and theft at the quarantine centres call for deployment of more women police personnel at the isolation centres 24x7, especially at the care hubs where the number of women patients is on the higher side.Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar told TOI, “We’ve taken action against the persons who breached the security. If any citizen or patient comes across lacunae in security, they should contact the civic administration. The problem will be addressed immediately.” Deputy commissioner of police (Zone V) Suhas Bawache said police personnel were deployed for maintaining vigil at the entrance of the Covid Care Centres (CCCs) and quarantine facilities. “The PMC has deployed guards too. Police deployment helps in preventing patients from escaping the facility and in controlling unruly situations,” Bawache said. On July 19 and 22, complaints of theft and stalking were registered by the patients or their family members staying at these facilities. Additional commissioner of police (crime) Ashok Morale said the local police had already asked the civic authorities to install CCTV cameras at these centres. “Patients too have been told not to carry valuables to these centres. We have used the P4 system (Police, Private, Public Participation in Security) to sensitise guards deployed at these facilities,” Morale said. At the Gondhalenagar facility in Hadapsar, PMC corporator Yogesh Sasane said health officials and staffers were often finding themselves at the receiving end of unruly behaviour by patients or their kin. “This reflects in incidents like people throwing food at the staffers and damaging properties,” Sasane said. In Pimpri Chinchwad, deputy commissioner of police Sudhir Hiremath told TOI, “Round-the-clock security has been provided to the CCCs and quarantine facilities in Balewadi, Moshi and elsewhere. At one of these centres, there was a demand for posting more women police persons as there were more women patients. We have done that.” Health activists said the fear of contracting the infection, besides hygiene issues, also played on the minds of those engaged in security duties. “There are some CCCs where sanitation is the main concern. Security lapses are often encountered during night time,” health activist Sanjay Dabhade said. When contacted, Sanjeev Wavare, assistant medical officer of health, PMC, said, “We have strengthened our CCTV surveillance and security at the CCCs across the city.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/theft-stalking-complaints-trigger-safety-concerns-at-covid-facilities/articleshow/77175991.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||LDF ploy to divert attention: Oommen Chandy||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s verbal attack on opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala is a ploy by the LDF to divert public attention from corruption and loss of face after the gold smuggling case, said former chief minister Oommen Chandy. He said that Chennithala has always propagated secular ideology of the Congress since his student days and he doesn’t need a certificate from CPM. Chandy said that the Congress is the only organization that has been taking a solid stand against BJP consistently. He said that the ruling front’s dislike towards Chennithala is understandable as he had brought out several corruptions in the government including Sprinklr scam, irregularities in Bevco and e-mobility programme. He said that people will also realize the CM’s tactic of mocking the opposition leader in news conferences to escape legitimate questions. On Friday, Balakrishnan had said that Chennithala has become the darling of the BJP and he is taking up all things against the LDF government that the BJP wants. Meanwhile, KPCC will embark on a ‘Speak-up for democracy’ campaign from Sunday, against BJP’s move to destabilise democracy using horse-trading and misuse of power. KPCC general secretary KP Anil Kumar said that KPCC office bearers, MPs, MLAs, DCC office-bearers and other leaders will use the social media to speak against BJP’s tactics to sabotage Congress governments, the latest one being the one in Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ldf-ploy-to-divert-attention-chandy/articleshow/77179378.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Kochi||LDF ploy to divert attention: Oommen Chandy||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s verbal attack on opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala is a ploy by the LDF to divert public attention from corruption and loss of face after the gold smuggling case, said former chief minister Oommen Chandy. He said that Chennithala has always propagated secular ideology of the Congress since his student days and he doesn’t need a certificate from CPM. Chandy said that the Congress is the only organization that has been taking a solid stand against BJP consistently. He said that the ruling front’s dislike towards Chennithala is understandable as he had brought out several corruptions in the government including Sprinklr scam, irregularities in Bevco and e-mobility programme. He said that people will also realize the CM’s tactic of mocking the opposition leader in news conferences to escape legitimate questions. On Friday, Balakrishnan had said that Chennithala has become the darling of the BJP and he is taking up all things against the LDF government that the BJP wants. Meanwhile, KPCC will embark on a ‘Speak-up for democracy’ campaign from Sunday, against BJP’s move to destabilise democracy using horse-trading and misuse of power. KPCC general secretary KP Anil Kumar said that KPCC office bearers, MPs, MLAs, DCC office-bearers and other leaders will use the social media to speak against BJP’s tactics to sabotage Congress governments, the latest one being the one in Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ldf-ploy-to-divert-attention-chandy/articleshow/77173862.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Kozhikode||LDF ploy to divert attention: Oommen Chandy||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s verbal attack on opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala is a ploy by the LDF to divert public attention from corruption and loss of face after the gold smuggling case, said former chief minister Oommen Chandy. He said that Chennithala has always propagated secular ideology of the Congress since his student days and he doesn’t need a certificate from CPM. Chandy said that the Congress is the only organization that has been taking a solid stand against BJP consistently. He said that the ruling front’s dislike towards Chennithala is understandable as he had brought out several corruptions in the government including Sprinklr scam, irregularities in Bevco and e-mobility programme. He said that people will also realize the CM’s tactic of mocking the opposition leader in news conferences to escape legitimate questions. On Friday, Balakrishnan had said that Chennithala has become the darling of the BJP and he is taking up all things against the LDF government that the BJP wants. Meanwhile, KPCC will embark on a ‘Speak-up for democracy’ campaign from Sunday, against BJP’s move to destabilise democracy using horse-trading and misuse of power. KPCC general secretary KP Anil Kumar said that KPCC office bearers, MPs, MLAs, DCC office-bearers and other leaders will use the social media to speak against BJP’s tactics to sabotage Congress governments, the latest one being the one in Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/ldf-ploy-to-divert-attention-chandy/articleshow/77179377.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19 hygiene triggers 15% rise in water use in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: During the summer, which was right in the middle of the Covid-19 lockdown, Ahmedabad’s municipal water consumption hovered at about 1,398 million litres a day (MLD). Despite the mass exodus of 2.6 lakh migrant workers and suspension of operations in 4.75 lakh commercial properties in the city, the water demand didn’t drop. Closed schools and 680 industrial units failed to make a dent on the amount of municipal water consumed in the city. Civic body officials believe the reason is the routine of extra hygiene necessitated by the Covid-19 pandemic. Amdavadis are taking baths and washing hands more often now. Rashmi Shah, the chairman of AMC’s water supply committee, says the overall municipal water consumption has gone up by 15%, if commercial and industrial sources are accounted for. Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) officials claim that nearly 35% of the 691 slum and chawl clusters were nearly empty during March, April and May. But even then, the city’s water consumption didn’t go down. Shah said, “We have noticed that an average Amdavadi is bathing at least twice a day. The overall consumption of municipal water has not come down from 1,398 MLD, which is the peak consumption during summer. During monsoon, residential consumption usually sees a slump of 10 per cent, which did not happen this time.” Water department officials say that a new water production plant is being set up to raise water availability by 300 MLD by Diwali. “We expect water consumption to rise by 1.2 times by December this year because of stringent hygiene practices adopted by people, even in the slums. Meeting the demand will be a challenge. But water is central to maintaining hygiene during the Covid pandemic,” said an official. Sources in AMC claim that since groundwater extraction is high in western, northern and southern parts of the city, the overall bulk of sewage outflow is much higher than municipal water consumed. A senior AMC officer said the Pirana sewage treatment plant was working at full capacity treating 180 MLD of sewage every day even in late March and doing so till date. “We usually receive 20 to 30 MLD of sewage from illegal factory connections. But during lockdown, even when these units were shut, our STP was running at full capacity,” the officer said. “No drop in water demand despite industries remaining closed indicates household consumption increased in the eastern part of the city,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-hygiene-triggers-15-rise-in-water-use-in-abad/articleshow/77174746.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
July 26, 2020||Goa||Goa: Opposition mulls adjournment to discuss outbreak||PANAJI: With six individuals losing their lives to Covid-19 in a single day, the opposition questioned the state government’s haste in pushing through an irrelevant budget at the one-day assembly session scheduled for Monday. The opposition is likely to move an adjournment motion in the state assembly, said Goa Forward Party (GFP) vice-president Durgadas Kamat. Opposition leader Digambar Kamat and GFP president Vijai Sardesai took to social media to express their displeasure with the government. Sardesai said that after the death of a 14-year-old girl, the chief minister could no long give the excuse of Co-morbidities. “With the death toll rising and a 14-year-old losing her life, will the BJP government still go ahead, suspending all rules, and pass the budget and conduct business without discussion during the one day assembly session?” asked Kamat. “The state government’s present attitude indicates that the pandemic and people’s suffering is the last priority for the BJP-led government.” GFP said that the state government appeared ill-equipped to deal with the pandemic. “Increasing number of positive cases and huge pendency of tested reports, and the Goa government will suspend all rules and pass a record-breaking business on Monday’s one day assembly session without discussion on Covid-19 situation in Goa and the opposition must remain quiet?” said Sardesai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/opposition-mulls-adjournment-to-discuss-outbreak/articleshow/77176004.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Goa||Mapusa civic chief, 2 councillors in quarantine after man who met them tests +ve||Saligao: The chairperson of Mapusa Municipal Council (MMC), Ryan Braganza, has home quarantined himself after a resident from the micro containment area at Ganganagar in Mapusa who met him in his cabin was found to be Covid positive. Two councillors, Sudhir Kandolkar and Swapnil Shirodkar, who were also present in Braganza’s cabin during the patient’s visit, have also quarantined themselves at their residences. The patient had also interacted with some staff members, said sources. Braganza said he änd the other councillors had undergone the swab tests and were awaiting the results. “I am confident that our results will be negative as we wearing masks and also maintaining social distance,” the MMC chief said. “We took a decision to home quarantine ourselves till our test results are out as we didn’t want to put the municipal staff at risk,” said Kandolkar. As a precaution, the municipal building was sanitised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mapusa-civic-chief-2-councillors-in-quarantine-after-man-who-met-them-tests-ve/articleshow/77176006.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Health department okays tests for outpatients at private hospitals||JAIPUR: Giving a boost to Covid-19 testing, the health department has allowed private hospitals and laboratories which have NABL accreditation and Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) permission, to take the samples from outpatient (OPD) department. It has allowed sampling at OPD with a rider that the clinical institutions should have a separate space for collecting the samples. On June 20, the health department had issued directions to all the private hospitals restricting them to collect the samples from OPD and it had directed the hospitals to conduct Covid-19 test only after admitting the patients. Two separate directions have been issued for symptomatic and asymptomatic cases. For symptomatic cases, the state government has directed the hospitals to admit the patients and then take the samples. The sample of asymptomatic patients can be taken from OPD and the person has to remain in home isolation and the information should be given to the health department. Private hospitals and nursing homes society (PHNHS) had written to the health department raising concern about the decision taken on June 20 on disallowing Covid test at OPD setting and making admission mandatory for it. “We requested the state government to review the orders issued on June 20 and withdraw it in interest of the people and health care workers,” said Dr Vijay Kapoor, secretary PHNHS. The state government had learnt that at OPD in some private hospitals, the patients are forced to get Covid-19 test done. Besides, if a patient gets tested for Covid-19 at OPD or at private hospitals, it becomes difficult for the health authorities to locate the patient as government for conducting activities at patient’s residence for preventing spread of the virus. The Centre has already issued directions to state government on April 28, mentioning that doctors should not insist patients to get Covid-19 test done at OPD of private hospitals before treating them. Moreover, ICMR guidelines also clarified that only symptomatic patients and those who were in close contact with Covid-19 patients should get tested for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/health-dept-okays-tests-for-outpatients-at-pvt-hosps/articleshow/77176005.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Vadodara||Sati-Pati cult comes into focus again||Vadodara: The arrest of Babita Kachhap from Jaldada village in Santrampur taluka of Mahisagar district has once again brought to focus the Sati-Pati cult in the state. The cult stays aloof from the government and administration and its staunch followers do not even hold government identity cards or ration cards. The cult has its root in south Gujarat, but has some following in pockets of central Gujarat too. It had made its presence felt about a year back in July 2019 when its members tried to take control of some forest land in Godhra taluka of Panchmahal district by fencing it. When the forest officials reached the spot, a ruckus took place and some officials were injured. An offence was registered and over 70 persons from central as well as south Gujarat were arrested. While boards of the cult can be seen on some houses in the tribal heartland of the state, the incident near Godhra was the first of its kind in the central Gujarat. Sources said that the attempt to take over the land had its root in the fact that the Sati-Pati cult believes that natural resources including land were their right and were handed over to them by Queen Victoria before independence. The group does not believe in the present system of governance. The activity of the cult in the region has been known and under the radar of the police as well as intelligence officials. Tribal activist Praful Vasava, who founded the Indigenous Army of India, said that the group has some pre-independence documents, and hence believes that they are the real owners of the country. Vasava also said that it was wrong to connect the Pathalgadi movement with Naxalism. “The present government in Jharkhand has even dropped cases regarding Pathalgadi movement. The ATS must come up with more details and clarity,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/sati-pati-cult-comes-into-focus-again/articleshow/77172982.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Kanpur||Preetinder Singh new SSP of Kanpur Nagar||Kanpur:The state government on Saturday transferred SSP Dinesh Kumar P to Jhansi. According to a statement issued by the government, Preetinder Singh has been made the new deputy inspector general/senior superintendent of police of Kanpur. He was earlier the DIG Aligarh range. Dinesh Kumar P has been posted as Jhansi SSP, the release said. Transfer of SSP Dinesh Kumar P comes amid kidnapping and killing of a 28-year-old lab technician Sanjeet Yadav in which role of the police has also come under cloud. The victim’s family alleged that kidnappers had escaped with a ransom of Rs 30 lakh in the presence of police. A probe has also been ordered in this regard. On July 23 five accused Gyanendra, Kuldeep, Neelu, Ramji, Preeti were arrested by the police. Two among them, Kuldeep and Ramji were Sanjeet’s friends and had earlier worked with him at other lab. They had confessed of killing Sanjeet and later dumping his body in Pandu river on June 27. They said that they had taken a room on rent at Ratan Lal Nagar to keep the captive. Searches with the help of PAC divers are still underway in Pandu river to fish out the body of Sanjeet, police said. Earlier on Friday, 11 police personnel including an IPS officer were suspended in the kidnapping case. SP South Aparna Gupta, DSP Manoj Gupta, former inspector in charge of Barra Ranjeet Rai, outpost in charge Rajesh Kumar, sub-inspector Yogendra Pratap Singh and six constables were suspended on negligence charge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/preetinder-singh-new-ssp-of-kanpur-nagar/articleshow/77175293.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Paddy farming in full swing despite govt regulations in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Despite the state government making efforts to discourage paddy cultivation on a large-scale, farmers have taken up the cultivation of the staple in a big way in the beginning of ‘vaanakalam’ (monsoon) crop season. The state government has come out with a new regulated cropping pattern policy as part of which it suggests farmers the variety of crops to be grown. The objective is to ensure that farmers get remunerative prices for their agricultural produce and do not incur losses. However, as on date, the sowing operations for paddy crops have exceeded last year’s sown area. For example, paddy sowing was taken up in only 6,000 acres by mid-July last year in Nizamabad district, but it has crossed two lakh acres this rainy season. In a majority of the districts, paddy sowing operations have exceeded last year’s sown area for the corresponding period between June 1 and July 15. Officials said good rains with excess rainfall in 22 districts and normal rainfall in 10 other districts resulted in sowing operations being in full swing. Officials said paddy is a water-intensive crop. Good rains have also recharged groundwater levels and the availability of water from irrigation projects among other factors encouraged farmers to go for paddy in the beginning of the vaanakalam crop season. “It’s a long way to go for the sowing operations to be completed. The target is to restrict paddy cultivation to about 40 lakh acres during this season (vaanakalam). As on July 15, paddy sowing was taken up in 6.42 lakh acres only, although it is much higher than 1.66 lakh acres, which is last year’s sown area for corresponding period,” an official said. “By the end of sowing operations, a clear picture would emerge on paddy cultivation taken up in the extent of land in the state,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/paddy-farming-in-full-swing-despite-govt-regulations/articleshow/77174783.cms||Roushan Ali
July 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Uncertainty over future leads to rise in depression among youth||VISAKHAPATNAM: Last month, Saikiran (name changed) was forced to cut short his medical education in Philippines and return to his home in Andhra Pradesh. Such was the fear of an uncertain future, amid the pandemic, that the 21-year-old slipped into depression. He ultimately called up an online counselling service to calm his nerves. In the last three months, this service spearheaded by the Andhra University’s department of psychology has received over 3,500 calls from harrowed students and their parents — suffering from psychological breakdowns — from across India. Many among them shared a similar story: their ambition to secure a foreign degree being shattered because of the Covid-19 outbreak. There were also distressed family members of teenagers with eating and sleeping disorders. “In the backdrop of the pandemic, research shows that there is sense of loss stemming from absence of routine, loss of interaction with friends, freedom and opportunities, which vary in degree as per the age and class,” said M V R Raju, senior professor, department of psychology (AU), explaining the reason for the high number of calls. Apart from AP and Telangana, these calls came from Mumbai, Chandigarh and cities in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu. Most of them concerned young adults between 13 and 22 years, from urban pockets. Many students studying abroad also called from quarantine centres, after landing in India, research said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/uncertainty-over-future-leads-to-rise-in-depression-among-youth/articleshow/77173904.cms||Sulogna Mehta
July 26, 2020||Goa||Kin, maid of Pilerne patient test positive||Saligao: Five family members and the maid of the Covid positive man from Pilerne who had attended his child’s christening have also contracted the virus. Those infected include the man’s wife, their three children, maid and a relative, said Dr Roshan Nazareth, health officer of the Candolim primary health centre (PHC). On Monday, after the man from Saulem who is employed as a supervior at Madkai industrial estate tested positive, the PHC collected samples of around 29 people and sent them for testing. Except for the six family members, all others, including the parish priest of St John the Baptist Church, were negative. It may be recalled that Pilerne saw its first case after a woman from the village, who working at the Ponda primary health centre, tested positive on July 8. Pilerne sarpanch Sandeep Bandodkar said the panchayat had sanitised the ward and also distributed immunity boosting medicines to residents in the area. “The ayurvedic medicines will be distributed to the entire village in the coming week,” said Bandodkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kin-maid-of-pilerne-patient-test-positive/articleshow/77176007.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Nagpur||Whisker seizure exposes tiger poaching in TATR||Chandrapur: The seizure of whiskers has exposed yet another tiger poaching case inside the Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR). Park rangers on Saturday exhumed the remains of the poached tiger to which the seized whiskers belong from a farm adjacent to the core boundary of the tiger reserve. Foresters on Thursday had trapped accused Narendra Chaudhari and Manoj Shende, residents of buffer villages Mudholi and Bhamdheli, at Padmapur gate when they carrying tiger whiskers to Chandrapur. During interrogation, the duo revealed the names of two more accused identified as Subhash Pendalwar and Kailash Dadmal, both from Mudholi village. During the forest custody remand, the four accused confessed to tiger poaching in a farm near Mudholi village. They named farmer Bandu Shrirame who had fenced his farm with electric wires that killed the tiger. RFO, Moharli (buffer) range, Raghvendra Mun claimed that poaching was carried out way back in August or September last year. The five-year-old tiger died of electrocution at the farm fence. Accused Shrirame, with the help of neighbour Kailash Dadmal, also a farmer, dug a hole and buried the tiger carcass. However, Dadmal had removed all the nails and whiskers from the carcass of the electrocuted tiger out of sheer greed, which led to exposure of the case, said Mun. Main accused Shrirame is still on the run. Accused Pendalwar took the whiskers of the tiger from Dadmal assuring him of good money from their sale. After TATR officials got a whiff of the plan, they lured the accused with a fake customer and summoned them to Chandrapur. Pendalwar sent 12 whiskers with the accused duo (Choudhri and Shende) for the ‘customer’ but the latter were trapped at the Padmapur gate. There were around 40 whiskers with Pendalwar, but he set the remaining ones on fire after getting a hint of the arrest of his two accomplices. “We have exhumed the remains of the poached tiger, including the bones, skull and canines. We have also seized all the 18 nails removed from the carcass by the accused,” said Mun. This is second case of poaching exposed in the Tadoba buffer zone this year. Earlier, a case of poisoning of a tiger family, including a tigress and two cubs, had come to the fore in the second week of June. A gang of illegal liquor sellers from Kondegaon having their brewery in Tadoba forest had poisoned the entire tiger family to eliminate the threat to their illegal business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/whisker-seizure-exposes-tiger-poaching-in-tatr/articleshow/77176011.cms||Mazhar Ali
July 26, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Home-cooked meals help women earn extra bucks||JAIPUR: While people have distanced themselves from restaurants and eateries and have renewed interest in home-cooked food, several homemakers have taken this as an opportunity to develop small businesses. Many of them have launched take-away joints from their kitchens selling everything from sizzlers to pizzas and from paranthas to paneer tikkas. A number of women said they were tired of the negtivity prevailing because of Covid and decided to launch takeaways to get off the fear. Manju Gulati (52) had always loved mouth-watering delicacies to her family during lockdown at her Malviya Nagar house. Over the years, she also received appreciation for her culinary skills from her near and dear ones. This served as the trigger of starting a home kitchen. “Everyday we were getting up, counting Covid figures and were into either believing or laughing off things related to the virus. So to detach myself, I started home kitchen. I am not delivering food and it’s a takeaway,” Manju told TOI. A number of women in Malviya Nagar, Jagatpura, Sodala, Mahesh Nagar, Vaishali Nagar and Khatipura have started such takeaways. Aishwarya Raj Mertiya (21) may be young but she’s a pro when it comes to cooking. “I do everything on my own — from collecting ingredients, baking cakes and delivering it to my clients. I think lockdown came as blessing in disguise for me. I always wanted to start something on my own and did that,” Aishwarya, who lives at Sirsi Road, said. “I keep myself busy which also negates the fear and thoughts of Covid. But I am taking full precautions,” she added. Homemaker Pranita Pawar of Jagatpura always loved making cakes. “I was into preparing cakes and baking was always close to me. However, during lockdown I realized that even if people were away from restaurants and dhabas, they had craving for various kinds of food. So, I started a home kitchen. With the help of my husband, we deliver cakes up to Malviya Nagar. Also, I have been giving discounts to Covid warriors including police and doctors,” said Pawar. Many such women maintained that it had also given them a chance to contribute to family budget. “If it helps my family with some extra bucks, what is wrong in that?” said Vandana Bhatt, a woman from Sodala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/home-cooked-meals-help-women-earn-extra-bucks/articleshow/77176008.cms||Ashish Mehta
July 26, 2020||Mysuru||Covid-19: Mysuru reports 10 fresh deaths||MUSURU: Mysuru’s Covid death tally crossed the 100-mark with 8 fresh deaths on Saturday. A total of 107 people have died so far making it the second district in Karnataka to report the highest deaths after Bengaluru. Dakshina Kannada is third in the list with 97 deaths. A total of 187 tested positive. According to DC Abhiram G Sankar, 104 are contacts, 20 had ILI symptoms, seven are SARI cases, and 26 infected people had travel history. About 30 were asymptomatic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mys-reports-10-fresh-deaths/articleshow/77173899.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Goa||CCP mayor seeks more info from health dept||Panaji: City mayor Uday Madkaikar has appealed to the directorate of health services to immediately update the CCP about positive cases in Panaji so that sanitization and testing could be carried out. “The number of Covid-19 cases in Goa has been on the rise and it has trickled into Panaji as well. It is imperative that the CCP is kept in the loop,” Madkaikar said. Last week, following positive cases at St Inez bandh, about 300 people from the vicinity were tested at the Goa college of pharmacy and spaces were sanitized. There are ten cases in the fish market building, some at St Inez bandh besides some in other residential areas. Wards across the city are being sanitized and those who had come in contact with the patients are being tested, Madkaikar said. “If we are able to act swiftly, only then the people of Panaji will be relieved. We are answerable for the health and well-being of the residents. We therefore want even locals to inform us if there are any positive cases in their neighbourhood,” he added. He also appealed to patients who don’t have access to individual toilets and depend on public toilets to be responsible.  “People that are being home-quarantined may not always have a toilet at home. The ward councilor must be informed about the same so that we can avert any issues of toilets being shared between patients and the rest of the public,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ccp-mayor-seeks-more-info-from-health-dept/articleshow/77176012.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Pregnant woman travels 10 hours, crosses stream to reach hospital in Telangana||HYDERABAD: A pregnant woman in Gundala mandal was forced to undertake a multi-modal travel for 10 hours over 100 km to reach a hospital, due to the absence of basic public amenities at her village and local PHC. The travails of Nunavath Mamatha of Narasapuram village started when she first had to wade through a stream in spate before getting a 108 vehicle. After reaching the Primary Health Centre, she was referred to the Illendu government hospital for better treatment. Video: Pregnant woman travels 10 hrs, over 100km to reach hospital https://t.co/kvnAp8sNE5— TOI Hyderabad (@TOIHyderabad) 1595737169000From Gunadala, Mamatha was taken in an ambulance to Illendu. The hospital did not admit her and referred her to the Kothagudem district hospital. The family insisted that she goes to Mahbubabad government hospital. The hospital authorities at Illendu said they would be able to provide an ambulance only to Kothagudem as they were referring her to that hospital. “So, we hired an auto and travelled to a private hospital in Narsampet from where we were advised to go to GKM Hospital, Warangal. Because of a complication, they had done a scanning for my daughter,” Mamatha’s father Ramesh told TOI from the Gutta Kindi Hospital, a government healthcare centre in Warangal. Bhadradri Kothagudem district collector MV Reddy told TOI that he has ordered an enquiry into why the pregnant woman had to wade through the stream. “I had issued instructions that pregnant women and people with ailments should be helped to reach the hospital in advance without delays,” he said. According to officials, the temporary bridge on the stream had collapsed, forcing Mamatha to walk through it. “We have plans to construct a permanent bridge. Until then, we are also thinking of alternatives,” the collector said. Watch Pregnant woman crosses stream as road access got damaged due to rain in Telangana||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pregnant-woman-travels-10hrs-crosses-stream-to-reach-hosp/articleshow/77174794.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 26, 2020||Hyderabad||TDR: Win-win for govt, land owners and builders in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: With land being sold at a premium in the city, builders and developers prefer to buy transferrable development rights (TDR) from property owners to add additional built-up area. TDR worth over Rs 250 crore, including Rs 150 crore in the past one year, has been sold in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits in the past five years. A property owner gets TDR, which is certain amount of additional built-up area, in lieu of area surrendered for public purpose. The extra built-up area could be either utilised by the land owner or transferred to others for a price. GHMC officials said there has been a huge demand for TDR in the city as it would be a win-win situation for government, property owners and builders. Government need not pay cash compensation to property owners for taking over their properties, while property owners get 400% value of their property. If it is cash compensation, they would be entitled for only 200% compensation, which is generally paid on registration value. Finally, developers need not pay land cost, if they buy TDR, they could get additional built-up area at much cheaper rate from property owners. “For the benefit of land owners and developers (purchasers), a TDR bank website has been created on the directions of MAUD minister KT Rama Rao. Telangana is the second state after Maharashtra in terms of utilising TDR certificates for property developments. Niti Aayog is also studying the Telangana model for replicating it in other major cities in the country,” GHMC chief city planner S Devender Reddy told STOI. He said earlier Telangana used to give 200% TDR, but the municipal minister issued orders enhancing it to 400% for the benefit of property owners. Officials sources said while developers were selling the developed properties between Rs 5,000 and Rs 7,000 per square foot (sft), the land owners were getting about Rs 1,000 to Rs 2,000 per sft depending on the site and location. GHMC and HMDA had issue TDR certificates to property owners who lose their property in land (property) acquisition for road widening. This TDR is 400% than their property for sites affected under master plan roads and 200% for sites affected under conservation and greenery development such as lakes development, nala shores. TDR is in the form of additional built up area, which can be utilised by land owners or they could sell or issue it to others anywhere irrespective of jurisdiction of the civic body. For instance, for 100 square yards plot area, 900 sq ft additional built-up area is allowed apart from their normal eligibility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tdr-win-win-for-govt-land-owners-and-builders/articleshow/77176033.cms||Koride Mahesh
July 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops foil Maoists’ bandh call||Hyderabad: A bandh call given by Communist Party of India (Maoist) demanding the release of writer Varavara Rao, Delhi University professor Sai Baba and 13 others, who are lodged in different jails, was foiled by Telangana police. The cops ensured all shops and establishments were kept open in tribal areas across Telangana. Bhadradri-Kothagudem police said that on Friday night, Maoists had set a villager’s tractor ablaze at Paidigudem village besides digging a road to disturb transport movement. Meanwhile, the district police arrested one Somaiah, who is a resident of Chhattisgarh, for allegedly being a sympathizer of Maoist party. Somaiah is accused of arranging logistics like food, shelter and other needs to Maoist cadre. He was caught as he was found moving under suspicious circumstances. Ever since Maoists gave a bandh call few days ago, police have intensified combing across tribal areas besides doing vehicle checking. Kothagudem police on Saturday sharpened the criticism against Maoists by saying that there have been differences among them over the sharing of extorted money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-foil-maoists-bandh-call/articleshow/77174822.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Goa||Low-key Vasco Saptah from today||Vasco: The annual Lord Damodar Saptah in Vasco will begin with the installation of a shreefal (coconut) on Sunday afternoon. However, the 121st Saptah will not be celebrated on a grand scale this year due to the ongoing pandemic. Only 10 members, including few from the Joshi family, will be present in the Lord Damodar temple to install the shreefal. Tight police security has been deployed to keep away devotees from entering the temple. The road in front of the temple on Swatantra Path will be closed for vehicles from Sunday morning to Monday afternoon. The Saptah committee has asked the bhajani groups to record their bhajans, which will be continuously played for 24 hours inside the temple without loudspeakers. The rituals in the temple will be screened on the cable channels and devotees have been asked to take the blessing of Lord Damodar on their TVs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/low-key-vasco-saptah-from-today/articleshow/77176021.cms||Ruvina Khan
July 26, 2020||Bareilly||Offer prayers at home on Eid, says Shafiqur Rehman Barq||BAREILLY: Samajwadi Party (SP) MP from Sambhal Shafiqur Rehman Barq, who had earlier wanted Muslims to be allowed to offer community prayers in mosques on Eid-ul-Adha, has now asked the public to offer prayers from their homes. Barq had submitted a memorandum to Sambhal district magistrate on Monday saying that Muslims be allowed to offer community prayers in mosques which he claimed "will help eliminate Covid-19". However, Barq on Friday appealed to people to follow the guidelines of the government during the festival. He said, “As the cases of coronavirus are rising, people should offer namaz from their homes. They should sacrifice their animals inside their houses and no prohibited animal should be sacrificed.” “I had earlier asked authorities to allow community prayer with social distancing at mosques so that we can pray for the end of Covid-19. I had also asked that there should not be any restriction on the sacrifice of animals. The government has now accepted our demand on sacrifice, but the government has not permitted community prayers in mosques and Eidgah,” said Barq. Explaining on why he asked people to offer prayers from home, Barq said, “As there is no Covid-19 vaccine yet, I had said the vaccine is in hands of God and if we pray together on Eid-ul-Adha, God will listen to our prayers and will help in getting rid of this virus. However, the UP government has now issued guidelines and allowed only five people inside mosques. I do not wish to cause chaos within the community. I request people to offer prayers from their homes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/offer-prayers-at-home-on-eid-says-sp-mp-barq/articleshow/77172628.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
July 26, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Biomedical waste dumped in open in Vandalur again||CHENNAI: At a time when hospitals and homes are generating huge amounts of bio-medical waste, a social activist has highlighted repeated indiscriminate dumping of waste such as syringes, medicine bottles and similar products at a vacant spot in Vandalur. This is the same location where bio-medical waste was found dumped many times in the last six months. Activist V Pughalvendan told TOI that he visited the spot near Manivakkam lake in Vandalur off Outer Ring Road on Saturday morning. “The waste was found hidden amid the bushes. Earlier, the person dumping would not make any efforts to conceal it. There is a lot of dust that has gathered over the waste, which means that it could have been dumped many days ago,” Pughalvendan said.  TOI forwarded the photographs to Vasudevan, the district environmental engineer of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB). “I shall conduct a spot inspection tomorrow and take action immediately,” he said. However, he did not specify what action could be taken against the perpetrators. Pughalvendan had earlier highlighted such dumping in January and February. In fact, he had conducted an investigation of his own and found bills dumped with the bio-medical waste, which had led him to a pharmacy nearby. “It was clear that a small hospital near the pharmacy had procured these medicines. It is likely that they are responsible for dumping this waste,” he said. All evidence had been submitted to the authorities along with a detailed complaint, Pughalvendan said, however little seems to have changed on the ground. “We have little hope now,” he said. According to officials in civic bodies, including Greater Chennai Corporation, bio-medical waste is to be collected separately and incinerated. Smaller civic bodies like Avadi corporation and Tambaram municipality have engaged contractors to collect such waste. However, sources in the waste management industry say waste management for other smaller municipalities is a big headache, which is why one can routinely find waste dumped at deserted locations in Chennai’s periphery, especially on vacant lands along highways. At present, waste like gloves and masks are collected by GCC in separate yellow bags and incinerated in their facility on the outskirts of the city. However, there have been complaints of such waste dumped with regular garbage as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/biomedical-waste-dumped-in-open-in-vandalur-again/articleshow/77174803.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
July 26, 2020||Chennai||Missing bus commute, duo create miniatures||CHENNAI: A love of commuting, particularly by government buses, has led to members of TNSTC Enthusiasts, a Facebook group, to make scale models of the vehicles they love. “We used to review buses, especially when new ones were launched and post it on our YouTube channel,” says Santhapriyan Kamaraj, a mechanical engineer, who founded the group in August 2017. But when the lockdown set in and everybody was confined indoors, the group found the number of YouTube and FB subscribers dwindling. “We thought of making videos talking about the technical specification of buses but it didn’t work since it’s a niche topic,” says Santhapriyan, currently in Salem.  That’s when they came across people in Kerala making miniatures of KSRTC buses. So, he and his Chennai-based friend Vijay Narayanan began working on the models from the first week of June. “Work from home stressful, so creating the models is a way to relax,” says Santhapriyan. For Vijay, who started on a new job recently, it has been a way to channel his passion for buses. Both use foam board to make the buses, which are made to scale. “The material is easily available in hardware shops, and 1sqft costs 25,” says Vijay. Since Santhapriyan is WFH, he took 20 days to create his model of the new blue TNSTC mofussil bus. Vijay has made a 2007 blue MTC bus, a white 2019 SETC MG leera, and a red MTC bus. “We stick to 43cm length, 11cm width and 12cm height for all the normal buses but the sleeper is lengthier, so it’s 48cm,” says Santhapriyan, adding that they use acrylic paint and also print stickers to paste it on the models. “With the batteries, each bus weighs 500g. We use the small ball bearings from roller skates so the buses roll on the road.”  Vijay, who takes 12 days to create a model, says it has all the features a real bus has – seats, fire extinguishers, doors that open and close, LED lights etc. “We also make videos of how we make the models and upload it. Within two days of making a model, we release the promo video,” says Vijay, adding that the response has been encouraging. “And we will continue creating more models.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/missing-bus-commute-duo-create-miniatures/articleshow/77174811.cms||Priya Menon
July 26, 2020||Vijayawada||More than 5k Covid-19 cases in Krishna district||VIJAYAWADA: With 407 new Covid-19 cases, Krishna district surpassed the 5,000 mark on Saturday. The total number of cases in the district is 5,248 of which 1,188 patients are currently undergoing treatment and 3,921 patients have been discharged. A total of 139 deaths have been reported in the district so far. In Vijayawada city, nearly 850 Covid-19 cases have been reported in the last five days. The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) is currently focussed on the 11 high-risk containment zones in the city where nearly 600 cases have surfaced only within the last four days. The city’s civic authority has imposed a ban on sale of meat and fish in the city for one week starting Friday. Barricades have been put up in these areas to restrict movement. Satyanarayana Puram, Chuttugunta, Patamata, Krishna Lanka, Bhavanipuram, Chittinagar and Moghalrajapuram are among the areas which have seen a steep rise in Covid-19 cases. Health wing officials have focussed their attention on urban slums and hilly terrains in the city. Door-to-door surveys have begun and officials have appealed to the public to not gather in groups. On Saturday, residents of Patamata and Darsipeta areas faced trouble as officials put up barricades in those areas overnight. Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz and VMC commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh examined the situation on Saturday and asked officials to strictly implement containment rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/more-than-5k-covid-19-cases-in-krishna-dist/articleshow/77173951.cms||Venu Lanka
July 26, 2020||World||Turkey and Greece exchange harsh words over Hagia Sophia prayers||ISTANBUL: Turkey and Greece exchanged harsh words on Saturday over the conversion of Istanbul's Hagia Sophia into a mosque, a day after Islamic prayers were held at the ancient site for the first time in nine decades. President Tayyip Erdogan, who attended Friday's ceremony that sealed his ambition to restore Muslim worship at Hagia Sophia, did not name Greece but said critics of the move were simply against Muslims and Turkey. Greek criticism of the move has been especially scathing, underlining tense ties between Greece and Turkey. Hagia Sophia was previously a museum and most Greeks view it as central to their Orthodox Christian religion: church bells tolled in mourning across Greece on Friday. "We see that the targets of those countries who have made so much noise in recent days are not Hagia Sophia or the eastern Mediterranean," Erdogan said in a televised speech. "(Their targets) are the presence itself of the Turkish nation and Muslims in this region," he said. In a statement earlier on Saturday, the Turkish foreign ministry spokesman said "Greece showed once again its enmity towards Islam and Turkey with the excuse of reacting to Hagia Sophia Mosque being opened to prayers". He strongly condemned hostile statements by the Greek government and parliament members and Turkish flag-burning in the Greek city of Thessaloniki. The Greek foreign ministry responded with its own statement, saying "the international community of the 21st century is stunned to observe the religious and nationalist fanatic ramblings of today's Turkey." On Friday, Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis called Turkey a "troublemaker", and the conversion of the site an "affront to civilisation of the 21st century". Greece and Turkey disagree on a range of issues from airspace to maritime zones in the eastern Mediterranean and ethnically split Cyprus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/middle-east/turkey-and-greece-exchange-harsh-words-over-hagia-sophia-prayers/articleshow/77176477.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Bareilly||Covid positive prisoner escapes hospital in Pilibhit, police teams formed to trace him||PILIBHIT: A prisoner, who tested positive for novel coronavirus (Covid-19) at a temporary jail, escaped from L1 facility at the State LH Ayurvedic College, where he was undergoing treatment since July 17. According to officials, the prisoner escaped the Covid-19 ward on Friday night by scaling a 4-foot-high boundary wall of the hospital. Notably, the accused was able to give the slip to the health staff and the police guarding the hospital, despite six CCTV cameras installed on the L1 facility premises. The man, identified as Naresh Kumar, was lodged in a temporary jail on July 13 on charges of kidnapping. After having contracted the disease at the jail, he was shifted to the hospital. Kumar is from Pilibhit's Kharagpur village under Bisalpur Kotwali police station. Two police teams have been formed to trace Kumar and a probe has been ordered to investigate the incident. Acknowledging a lapse from both the police and the hospital staff, superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav said Pilibhit sadar circle officer Pramod Yadav will probe matter. “Two police teams, including one each of Pilibhit and Bisalpur Kotwali police stations, have been constituted to trace Kumar. Technically and morally, the police carry responsibility for prisoner’s escape, but the health department should have kept him in a separate room for the purpose of security,” the SP said. Meanwhile, additional chief medical officer Dr Harpal Singh, passed the buck on to the police, saying, “Medical personnel could not be held liable for the incident as they we are only concerned with providing treatment to the patients.” SHO Shrikant Dwividi said the prisoner has been booked under section 224 (escape or attempt to escape from any custody in which a person is lawfully detained for any offence) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/covid-positive-prisoner-escapes-hospital-in-pilibhit-police-teams-formed-to-trace-him/articleshow/77172648.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong: Restore OGH heritage structures||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Saturday demanded the state government preserve the heritage building of Osmania General Hospital and construct a modern world-class building on the adjacent six acres of open land. “Osmania Hospital is one of the biggest treatment facilities in Telangana, catering to eight lakh out-patients and 60,000 in-patients every year in addition to being a teaching facility. A new building should be constructed on OGH premises without touching the heritage building,” Uttam, who is also Nalgonda MP, said after visiting the hospital on Saturday He demanded that the state should rope in heritage conservation experts to restore the OGH heritage block. “When the more than 400-year-old Qutb Shahi Tombs could be restored, why is it not possible to restore the 95-year-old OGH building?” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-restore-ogh-heritage-structures/articleshow/77174830.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Bareilly||In a first, mills to pay 85% sale value of cane byproducts to clear farmers’ dues||PILIBHIT: In a first, state sugarcane administration has decided that 85% of the sale value of byproducts of sugarcane -- molasses, bagasese, press-mud and ethanol -- derived by sugar mills will be tagged for cane price payment. Till now, the tagging policy was applicable only to sugar stocks. Principal secretary, sugarcane and sugar industry, UP government, Sanjay R. Bhoosreddy said the modified tagging system will help speed up clearance of cane price arrears. Industry sources revealed that 92 mills in the private sector, 24 cooperative and three mills of UP Sugar Mill Corporation presently owe farmers around Rs 13,000 crore as cane dues. “The sugar mills which have established their own distillery units to utilize the mother unit’s byproducts for producing alcohol will have to pay 85% of the value of molasses and bagasse from the accounts of respective distillery units for writing off the cane price arrears,” he said. “In addition, 30% of the sale value of ethanol produced from C-grade molasses, 55% produced from B-heavy molasses and 80% produced directly from sugarcane juice will be used for repaying the cane price dues," Bhoosreddy said. For execution of this exercise, an ‘escrow account’ had been opened in all sugar mills in the state which will jointly be operated by the mill management and the district cane officer concerned he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/in-a-first-mills-to-pay-85-sale-value-of-cane-byproducts-to-clear-farmers-dues/articleshow/77170753.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: Iconic Town Hall en route to regain lost glory||VISAKHAPATNAM: At the end of the narrow, winding lane off Old Main Town Road stands the century-old Town Hall, the epicentre of the freedom struggle in the Port City. Now, following efforts from the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC), conservationists and heritage lovers in the city have embarked upon a journey to restore the iconic colonial-era monument and the adjacent old Municipality Building. The buildings will be turned into a cultural and heritage complex showcasing the city’s history and host concerts and other events. “The restoration work is almost 85 per cent complete and the buildings are expected to be ready by November or December. We will then start the landscaping work. Post-completion, the compound can be used as a cultural complex,” N Sravani, project in-charge of Savani Heritage, who is overseeing the restoration work, told STOI. The history of the Town Hall dates back to 1904. A major meeting point for freedom fighters and social activists, the Town Hall soon became the focal point of the freedom struggle here. Mahatma Gandhi visited it in 1929. The building has also hosted C Rajagopalachari, Rabindranath Tagore, Sir CV Raman and Dr S Radhakrishnan. Music legends such as MS Subbulakshmi, Dwaram Venkataswamy Naidu and M Balamuralikrishna have performed here. “The building has a history of its own. From Durga Puja to musical concerts, Vizagities used to use this building for all purposes,” said Sohan Hatangadi, a long-time resident of the city. In May 2019, the GVMC took up restoration work on the building under the Smart City Mission. After a tendering process, work was allotted to the Mumbai-based Savani Heritage Conservation Private Limited. While the Town Hall will be restored and renovated at a cost of Rs 3 crore, a sum of Rs 5 crore has been allotted for the adjacent old Municipality building. “The process of conserving and restoring the heritage structure is a challenging task, as we worked on an existing structure instead of building something new. Most importantly, we have actually restored 80 per cent of the originally-used materials, such as Mangalore tiles,” added Sravani. Once restored, the GVMC plans to utilise the space to showcase the city’s history through photographs and documentaries. The iconic stage in the Town Hall may be used to host cultural events. “The final blueprint of the project is yet to be worked out but it is good to see that the civic body and the citizens of the city have come forward to take the initiative of restoring such an old and historical building,” said Jayshree Hatangadi, a city-based heritage enthusiast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/iconic-town-hall-en-route-to-regain-lost-glory/articleshow/77173965.cms||Arpit Basu
July 26, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Cancel Rayalaseema LI scheme tender’||Hyderabad: Congress has urged Union jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to issue directions to the AP government to cancel the Rayalaseema lift irrigation scheme works estimated to cost Rs 3,278 crore. In a letter to the minister on Saturday, AICC secretary and former MLA Ch Vamshi Chand Reddy said AP was violating the norms of river water sharing agreement and the AP State Reorganisation Act by inviting tenders for pumping and utilising water from Srisailam Right Main Canal through Rayalaseema LI scheme. By issuing the tender notice to draw 3 tmc water daily, the AP government had not only violated the Reorganisation Act but also violated KRMB’s directive, he added. The AICC secretary requested the union minister to ensure that AP adheres to the regulations, and also see that the tender is cancelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cancel-rayalaseema-li-scheme-tender/articleshow/77174857.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Indore||Covid-19 cases in Khargone up 150% since start of July||Indore/Khargone: With 22 new Covid-19 cases, Khargone district’s tally of positive patients crossed the 600 mark. According to Indore division bulletin of the day, Khargone, which has emerged as second worst-affected district under Nimar region after Indore, reported over 100 per cent rise in tally this month so far. On June 30, Khargone had around 275 cases and by July 25, the district had reported a total of 617 cases. Speedily spreading Covid-19 has raised worries for officials as well as locals. Commercial tax commissioner Raghvendra Singh, who has been given charge of Khargone, Khandwa and Burhanpur, is frequently visiting the district and keeping a close watch on the situation. Singh on Saturday visited Khandwa and took stock of containment zones and quarantine facilities there. During this, Khandwa and Dhar reported six new cases each. Indore district has so far reported 6709 cases including 303 deaths. Amidst a rise in spread, administration has for now dropped the idea to enforce lockdown for next few days. Barwani district reported 28 cases while Jhabua, Alirajpur and Burhanpur district reported six, three and one new cases respectively. Under Malwa region, Ujjain district reported 23 new cases while all remaining six districts reported cases in single digit. As per the division bulletin of the day, Dewas (4), Shajapur (5), Ratlam (9), Mandsaur (5), Neemuch (3) and Agar district reported six new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/covid-19-cases-in-khargone-up-150-since-start-of-july/articleshow/77174848.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Nagpur||‘Consumer has truly become king with the new act’||The new Consumer Protection Act (2019) came into effect on July 20. Avinash Prabhune, who spent 17 years moving district forum, state and national commissions exercising the old act as an activist, now adjudicates disputes working as a member of the Additional District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (previously ‘forum’) in Nagpur. In this interview, the commission member — who gave up his 33-year-long career as an assistant engineer with state utility Mahagenco — talks about the act and its benefits. Excerpts: Q.What are the major reforms in the new act? A. Consumer has become king in actual terms with the much-awaited, powerful Consumer Protection Act, 2019. The old Consumer Protection Act (1986) has provided significant relief to consumers in the last 34 years. However, the new act is as an extended, polished version of the old one. It has addressed various shortcomings and systemic requirements due to change in circumstances noticed during enforcement of the old act. As compared to 31 sections in the old one, the new act has widened the scope with 107 sections, with the roots/base of its earlier version. All citizens — from birth to death — irrespective of their social, economical and educational status, are ‘consumers’ as they buy goods and avail services. Therefore, every citizen must be adequately informed about the Consumer Protection Act as well as the Right to Information Act. The utility of both these acts is akin to the importance of two hands in our body. If a party fails to comply with directions, the fine amount has been increased to a minimum of Rs25,000 and a maximum of Rs1 lakh, apart from imprisonment ranging from one month to three years. Sellers and service providers used to find out loopholes in the old act to skip liability for online transactions. The new act has plugged many of these loopholes. Q. Can you highlight some significant features of the new act? A. The creation of Central Consumer Protection Authority (CCPA), Consumer Dispute Redressal through Mediation (CDRTM), and widening the scope of the act by including e-commerce, direct selling, unfair contract, product liability of the manufacturer, and product seller and service provider are some key features. Increase in pecuniary jurisdiction of the district, state and national commissions is advantageous. Changes in provision of territorial jurisdiction for filing complaints and stringent provisions against non-compliance of the order will help a lot. Serious punishments for food adulteration, punishment for manufacturing for sale or storing, selling, distributing or importing products containing adulterants gives more teeth to the authority. Q. What would be the role of CCPA and CDRTM functions? A. They will regulate matters relating to violation of consumer rights and unfair trade practicesand false or misleading advertisements affecting public and consumers. CCPA will promote, protect and enforce the rights of consumers as a class. CCPA has been empowered to carry out search and seizure, issue directions to recall goods, and impose penalties against false and misleading advertisements. CDRTM will help in resolving consumer disputes at the earliest stage of litigation, giving speedy and economical relief to consumers. These two remedies will help cut pendency. Q. What about pecuniary jurisdictions? A. District commission will now decide claims for goods or services worth up to Rs1 croreinstead of Rs20 lakhs, state commission up to Rs10 crores, and national commission for above Rs10 crores. It was need of the present situation in view of the increased valuations at district level and metro cities. Consumers will be able to file complaints at the district level itselfwithout going to state or national commission, New Delhi. Q. Territorial jurisdiction for filing complaints is a relief. A. Yes, consumers can now file complaints at their place of residence or workplace. As per the old act, consumers had to file complaint where cause of action arose wholly or partly, or the place where the other party’s office was located. So a city consumer who bought a defective product in Delhi was required to file a complaint there if the opposing party had no office at Nagpur. With the new provision, consumer can file the complaint in Nagpur. Q. Will this new act help expedite cases and the entire process? A. Definitely. Class action complaints can be lodged with CCPA or with the commissions. A consumer has two available remedies for class actions, therefore, filing of many complaints for the same dispute can be resolved in one complaint for the entire class of consumers. The new act will help expedite cases in view of the increase in pecuniary jurisdiction, as it will reduce burden on state and national commissions. Q. Many aggrieved consumers are not inclined to avail the benefit because of hurdles and long-drawn process. Does the act change this? A. There are no hurdles in pursuing a complaint. In fact, consumer awareness and participation is quite less. Adequate provisions for increasing consumer awareness are already available and it can be achieved through consumer protection council and various consumer organizations. Consumers must increase their awareness, use consumer-friendly provisions of the act and participate in-person before the commission for getting speedy and economical justice. There may be some delay in disposal of complaints in big cities due to more number of cases but situation at other districts may be different. I have seen that consumer always gets justice in his favour from the commission in properly submitted matters having merits. By the grace of God, I am fortunate to have seen the utility of the act from both sides of the fence. Q. Does it safeguard sellers and service providers from false or fabricated cases? A. Provision regarding punishing consumers for frivolous or vexatious cases was there in the old act, but it is not evident in new one. Sellers and service providers are already in a strong position and capable of protecting their interests. Q. What about vacancies of judicial and non judicial staff? A. The state government is taking care of it and recruitments are being held from time to time. Q. The provision of having a mandatory woman judge has also been removed in the act. A. But the rules have provision for a woman member, while the president can also be a woman. If the president is a woman, then the other two members can be men. Out of three members, one has to be a woman. An all-women commission is also possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/consumer-has-truly-become-king-with-the-new-act/articleshow/77176124.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 26, 2020||Patna||Record spike with Covid 2,803 cases in Bihar||PATNA: Bihar on Saturday recorded its highest single-day peak in Covid-19 cases with 2,803 people testing positive for the virus, surpassing all its previous records and taking the total count to 36,314. Saturday's tally is nearly a thousand more than the second highest single-day peak, which was registered on Friday when 1,820 people had tested positive for the coronavirus. With 11 deaths officially reported, the toll has now reached 232. Among the deceased was a 75-year-old Raja Bazar resident who died at the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital. So far, 24,520 people have recovered and active cases stand at 11,560 in Bihar. The highest number of coronavirus cases were registered in Patna on Saturday where 544 people tested positive. With 3,693 recoveries and 36 deaths so far, active cases in Patna district stand at 2,165. Other districts which reported large number of cases are Nalanda (225), Katihar (177), Bhagalpur (149), Gaya (140), Vaishali (124), Purnea (120), Bhojpur (117), Begusarai (113), East Champaran (100) and Samastipur (77). As per information shared by the health department, 1,688 people have recovered in the past 24 hours, taking the recovery rate to 67.52%. In the same time period, 12,461 samples have been tested. The department reported three deaths from Munger, two deaths each from Araria and Samastipur and one death each from Bhagalpur, Nalanda, West Champaran and Rohtas. As per the information shared by the NMCH epidemiologist-cum-nodal officer (reporting cell), Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, seven deaths were registered, however, the coronavirus reports of three of the deceased were awaited. Among the deceased were a 20-year-old woman from Jehanabad who died of cardiac arrest, a 35-year-old man from Ara who was diabetic, a 53-year-old man from Bhojpur with a history of asthma and diabetes and a 75-year-old Raja Bazar resident who was diabetic. A 52-year-old man from Gulzarbagh locality also died at the NMCH, however, his Covid-19 report is awaited. Dr Mukul further informed that 30 patients were in ICU and 114 on oxygen. AIIMS-Patna reported three deaths, including a 21-year-old boy who committed suicide on Friday evening. Other deceased include a 55-year-old Athmal Gola resident of Patna and a 57-year-old man from Bhojpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/record-spike-with-covid-2803-cases-in-bihar/articleshow/77173229.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 26, 2020||Kozhikode||Palathayi sexual abuse case: Demand for IG’s ouster gets louder||KOZHIKODE: Activists and writers have called for observing a state-wide fast in houses on Sunday, demanding the expulsion of inspector-general of police (crime branch) S Sreejith from the team probing the Palathayi sexual abuse case. The call was issued after an audio clip of a telephonic conversation, purportedly of Sreejith—the probe team supervisor—divulging the details of the case to a youth, circulated on social media. Personalities, including K Satchidanandan, B Rajeevan, Sara Joseph and B R P Bhaskar, also urged the people to mail the photographs of them fasting to the chief minister. “The girl won’t get justice if Sreejith remains as the supervisory officer. He had violated Pocso norms and divulged the details of the case to the public in a phone call. Our main demand is to suspend Sreejith,” said activist Sreeja Neyyattinkara. She added that Remya Haridas, MP, V M Sudheeran and M N Karassery, too, have expressed support to the cause. Meanwhile, women police officers have taken over the further investigation of the case in which a 10-year-old girl was allegedly molested by a local BJP leader. Kasaragod police chief Shilpa D and DSP (narcotics), Kannur Reshma Ramesh have joined the team. The additional sessions court, Thalassery, had ordered further investigation into the case after the prosecution filed a chargesheet excluding relevant sections of Pocso Act. The crime branch had said they were continuing with the investigation to assess scientific evidence against the accused Kunyil Padmarajan. The allegation was that Padmarajan, also a schoolteacher, sexually abused the girl and threatened to kill her if she divulged the incident to anyone. The girl was his student in the school. There was a hue and cry over the delay in filing the chargesheet and the absence of Pocso Act when it was finally filed. The girl’s mother had expressed lack of trust in the crime branch investigation team. Meanwhile, a war of words has started between SDPI and CPM over the issue. CPM’s Kannur former district secretary P Jayarajan alleged that the intervention of SDPI workers has weakened the case. Jayarajan said the girl's statement in court differed from what she told police and Childline. He said the statement weakened the case, and alleged a Sangh Parivar and SDPI nexus behind different statements. SDPI retorted that Jayarajan’s was a feeble attempt to defend his party after the truth was exposed. The police were forced to act when the public launched agitations, SDPI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/demand-for-igs-ouster-gets-louder/articleshow/77173989.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Vadodara||Finally, some relief for Covid-19 positive SSG resident doctors||Vadodara: Resident doctors of state-run SSG Hospital finally are getting some relief. TOI had recently highlighted how the resident doctors, backbone of Central Gujarat’s biggest government hospital were struggling for accommodation even as these warriors on the frontline in the battle against Covid-19 were getting infected. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) has finally made an arrangement with a private hotel which since Friday has started providing accommodation to resident doctors who test positive of Covid-19. “In Ahmedabad, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) had made arrangements with two luxurious hotels for stay of residents since quite some time. Unlike, Ahmedabad, the facility in Vadodara is not so good but at least an effort has been made to address our grievances,” said a resident doctor. “It took so many months for the hospital administration and the civic body to realize that they need to resolve problems faced by resident doctors,” said the junior doctor, adding that nearly 13 residents were shifted to the private hotel on Friday. Earlier, after several representations, the hospital administration had made an arrangement with a private player but the facility was located on the outskirts of the city and the residents were asked to make their own travel arrangements. Health of resident doctors has become a concern as those doctors who were sent on deputation to Ahmedabad civil hospital had tested positive. Since, last week, even those resident doctors who are involved in non-Covid duties have started testing positive. So far, 30-odd residents and consultants have tested positive. While there is some relief to residents who have tested positive, the workload of all residents has increased. Since last week, these doctors are not given one-week quarantine period which was earlier provided to them after they handled Covid-19 duties for a week. “Whether you have worked with Covid-19 ICU, ward or OPD, there is no rest period. Apart from rest that is required after handling such strenuous job, the rationale behind asking residents to undergo quarantine for seven days was to ensure that he or she as a possible carrier does not spread the infection to other non-Covid patients. There is no written directive from state government but residents are now not allowed to undergo quarantine,” said a senior doctor. Meanwhile, the GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri has also sought additional resident doctors from SSG to manage the flow of coronavirus patients which is increasing with each passing day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/finally-some-relief-for-covid-19-positive-ssg-resident-doctors/articleshow/77173021.cms||Prashant Rupera
July 26, 2020||Delhi||Two flyovers in NE Delhi almost ready, to cut travel time by 30 minutes||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal visited the Shastri Park flyover construction site on Friday to review the progress of the project. Scheduled to be completed by October 2020, the flyover is nearing completion and the straight, unlooped section will be inaugurated next month. Kejriwal said that the construction of the flyover at Shastri Park and Seelampur would ease the difficulties of commuters in these areas. “The construction of both the Shastri Park flyover and the Seelampur flyover has been nearly completed. The straight portion will be inaugurated in August and the loops will take a month and a half more to be completed,” he said. “The sanctioned cost of the projects was Rs 303 crore, but we are hoping to finish it for Rs 250 crore. The project got a little delayed because of the Covid restrictions, else it would have been completed by now.” The Shastri Park junction flyover is planned to be 700 metres long and will be a two-way flyover. Each of the carriageways is around 10.5 metres wide. The flyover will eventually have two loops, one for vehicles coming from Khajuri Chowk and going towards Kashmere Gate, the second for traffic coming from Gandhi Nagar and turning towards Shahdara. The project is expected to reduce travel time between the interstate bus terminal at Kashmere Gate and Shahdara by five minutes-seven minutes. PWD had initially planned to erect two flyovers — one at Seelampur and another at Shastri Park — but after considering the bottlenecks impeding traffic flow on the entire stretch, a third flyover at the Dharampura junction was added to the Rs 350-crore project. The construction of the first two flyovers began in April 2019. The one at the Shastri Park junction is 700 metres long and has six lanes, three on either side of the central verge. The officials said that these will render the passage from ISBT Kashmere Gate to Dilshad Garden signal free and cut travel time between the two points from the current 40 minutes to a mere 15 minutes. The second flyover at the Seelampur junction is 1.3-km long and is double-laned. Delhi government officials said that the budget for the flyovers was cleared by the state cabinet in July 2017. The Unified Traffic and Transportation Infrastructure (Planning and Engineering) Centre, or UTTIPEC, the regulatory body for transport infrastructure in Delhi, had approved the project a month earlier in June 2017. An official expressed optimism that these flyovers would boost the road infrastructure in east Delhi, and once operational, would make the stretch between ISBT Kashmere Gate and the Uttar Pradesh border free of traffic signals. PWD will also upgrade the existing roads by widening the underpasses there by three metres. The Seelampur Chowk will be expanded and provided with a signal-free left turn and U-turn to decongest the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/two-flyovers-in-ne-delhi-almost-ready-to-cut-travel-time-by-30-mins/articleshow/77176079.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Patna||Floods hit 10 lakh people, IAF choppers join relief operations in Bihar||PATNA: Three helicopters of Indian Air Force (IAF) joined relief operations in flood-affected areas in three districts in north Bihar even as the number of affected people crossed 10 lakh-mark on Saturday. Swollen Gandak breached its embankment at three more places in Gopalganj district on Saturday. As per daily flood bulletin of water resources department (WRD), fresh breaches were reported at two places in Saran embankment of the Gandak at Chiuntaha village and Sonvaliya village under Baikunthpur block in Gopalganj district. WRD engineers said breaches were 60-70feet wide. IAF begins relief work by dropping relief and food materials in inaccessible areas of Darbhanga, East Champaran, Ma… https://t.co/IQL61G0vGP— TOI Patna (@TOIPatna) 1595743088000Meanwhile, railways suspended train movement between Sugauli and Narkatiaganj under Samastipur division on Friday night after floodwaters crossed the danger level at a rail bridge. Train movement was also suspended on Darbhanga-Samastipur section of Samastipur division after floodwaters touched a railway bridge on Friday. Several pairs of long-distance mail and express trains were diverted due to disruption of rail traffic. Meanwhile, CM Nitish Kumar announced on Saturday that the state government will give gratuitous relief of Rs 6,000 to each flood-affected family through direct benefit transfer. Water resources department minister attributed the breaches and the consequent floods in north Bihar to heavy discharge in Gandak and Bagmati rivers. “The discharge in Gandak from Nepal has been up to 5.36 lakh cusecs, highest in last 35 years. This led to pressure on the embankments at many places, though most withstood the floodwaters. For instance, there was seepage from 1km stretch of Gandak embankment at Revaghat in Saran district on Friday night, but it was restored by the flood-fighting team,” Jha told TOI. Principal secretary of disaster management department Pratyaya Amrit said three IAF helicopters were requisitioned by the state government for relief operations. “Two choppers were pressed into service for distribution of food packets in Gopalganj and Darbhanga districts. The third chopper will be used in East Champaran,” he added. “Even as more than 10 lakh people have been affected by floods, we have ensured that rescue and relief operations are carried out with precautions keeping in mind the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. The daily flood bulletin issued by WRD issued on Saturday evening stated that most rivers flowing in north Bihar showed either receding or static trend, though they were flowing above danger level at many places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/3-iaf-choppers-join-relief-operations-as-10-lakh-hit-by-floods/articleshow/77173137.cms||Kumod Verma
July 26, 2020||Delhi||Give and Tech: Teachers too learn the ABC of online classes||NEW DELHI: Online classes are not only new for schoolchildren. Even for their teachers, these present new challenges. Beside just corralling in family members to help in preparing and recording videos, they are also attending webinars to update themselves about new technologies so remote learning can be productive for their students.  Dealing with new tech can be daunting for teachers, for unlike their students, they are often set in their ways and have a Luddite unwillingness to immerse themselves in devices and software. “I am not good with technology,” admitted Shefali Arya, 42, who has taught home science for 19 years. “But I had to make a swift transition.” She had her first taste of Covid-forced remote education when she had to hold a cooking class with her students of DAV School, Pushpanjali Enclave, Pitampura. She was elated afterwards. “I made my son hold the phone and we together filmed me cooking. It wasn’t too difficult to share the video with my students,” she beamed.  This often elevating experience, however, comes with industry. Almost all teachers are putting in more hours then in school. A relative of a GD Goenka School teacher disclosed, “Her screen time starts at 7am and goes on till 1am. The classes are of a maximum duration of three hours, but she has to work on that day’s and the following day’s classes, preparing online study materials, marking assignments, even calling up parents of absentee students.” The extra work put in by teachers makes the online classes interesting for students. Saumya Taneja, who teaches social science at Springdales School, Pusa Road, talked of how challenging it was initially to shift to a new teaching platform. “But now I am not only using PowerPoint presentations, but also employing software for quizzes and educational games. I would not have taken these up in regular teaching. So, you see, I have evolved as a teacher,” said Taneja. Many have gladly embraced the offerings of the modern connected world. Ghazala Siddiqui, an English teacher at Jamia Millia Islamia Secondary School, has her own YouTube channel on which she uploads materials for students to refer to. Physics teacher Mayank Dugar of Ahlcon International School, Mayur Vihar, said he made use of online quizzes and websites like Quizlet to teach his Class IX wards. “I attended several webinars to comprehend the use of new tools and websites,” he said. Dugar said some teachers he knows went out of their way to procure new equipment to make the teaching experience smoother for themselves and their students. He himself upgraded his bandwidth plan to ensure that the streaming of his videos would be flawless.  While teachers at The Indian School too have discovered innovative websites and incorporated them in their lesson preparations, Sukhmeen Cheema, acting principal of The Foundation School, said, “Teachers have risen to the occasion and despite the time burden, have employed unique and innovative teaching methods, using websites like Nearpod, SWAY and Padlit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/give-and-tech-teachers-too-learn-the-abc-of-online-classes/articleshow/77176090.cms||Shradha Chettri
July 26, 2020||Gurgaon||Delhi: JNU student booked for ‘promoting hatred’||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has booked a Jawaharlal Nehru University student for allegedly promoting hatred after he posted some tweets against the Indian army. The student, identified as Sajid Bin Sayed, is the president of a student’s group of Campus Front of India. Sayed deleted his tweets after they went viral. Additional DCP (southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh said that the FIR was registered under sections 153 (A) (Vilification or attacks upon the religion, race, place of birth, residence, language etc of any particular group) and 504 (intent to provoke breach of peace) of the IPC against Sayed on July 8 at the Kapashera police station in southwest Delhi.  The cops registered the FIR on the complaint of one Tajnder Yadav, who also enclosed screen shots of the tweets along with his complaint. Yadav said that he had lodged the complaint with the police after he found that Sayed had been using his handle to spread “false propaganda”.  In one of the tweets, Sayed wrote that the “Indian Military execute system genocide of Kashmiris which is devised by RSS. The BJP govt should stop their territorial greed and be ready to accept Kashmiris' right to self-determination guaranteed by the UN. It's high time to intervene in the issue by international bodies. #Kashmir”. Police said that this was not the first time that Sayed had put out such inflammatory tweets. On July 12, Sayed accused the government of plotting an “ethnic cleansing” in Kashmir. The cops will be approaching Twitter to gain access to the server from which the posts originated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/jnu-student-booked-for-promoting-hatred/articleshow/77176095.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Indore||Covid norms make it a safe Nag Panchami for snakes||Indore: This Nag Panchami, forest department officials did not spot any snake charmer, who on this occasion every year, catch cobras and torture them by force-feeding. Precautionary measures against Covid-19 including lockdown on weekends in some districts of Indore-Ujjain division seems to have helped in yielding such results, which otherwise could not be achieved despite intensive drives down the years. According to senior officials at forest department, on Nag Panchami, instead of worshiping snakes as per Hindu tradition, they are forcefully fed milk and other fluids, which act as potential toxins resulting in their death. “We had sounded alert and had asked the staff to keep a vigil on snake charmers as they move around with the reptiles and torture them for money,” Ujjain DFO Dr Kiren Bisen told TOI. She added that surprisingly, no snake charmer was spotted with serpents in their sacks and credit can be given to various precautions and restrictions enforced due to Covid-19 spread. Indore DFO Sanjay Phuljhade said that on Nag Panchami, snake charmers can be seen in towns and villages of Madhya Pradesh displaying snakes in their baskets with all types of snakes such as pythons, rat snakes, and cobras mingled together. To keep a watch on them, Indore forest department had formed four teams. “During my tenure in Betul, Khandwa, Seoni and Mandla, we used to rescue around 30-40 snakes on this day. The most common is Cobra, which is placed under schedule-I or II of Wildlife Protection Act,” he said adding that this year Covid-19 measures helped in saving hundreds of snakes. Dhar DFO Shankarlal Uike said lockdown on Saturday along with public awareness to maintain social-distancing and taking other precautions have helped in saving snakes on this Nag Panchami as the department did not spot any snake charmer. “Old myths die hard. Despite making many efforts and generating public awareness, feeding snakes milk, putting vermilion and making other offerings, which actually torture and cause serious health issue to snakes, are still in practice,” he said adding that however this year, no such practice was reported. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/covid-norms-make-it-a-safe-nag-panchami-for-snakes/articleshow/77174862.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Medics urge state to ramp up OGH||Hyderabad: A representation requesting for immediate construction of new buildings for Osmania General Hospital was submitted to state health minister Eatala Rajender by members of the Indian Medical Association, Osmania Alumni association, and Telangana Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes association. The medics have urged the state for a facility as per international standards for those in need. The presentation was made by Dr Ravindra Reddy, chairman of Telangana State Medical Council, Dr GR Lingamurthy and Dr Ratnam from TNHNA and Dr Sanjeev Singh Yadav, secretary of IMA Telangana. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/medics-urge-state-to-ramp-up-ogh/articleshow/77174868.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Indore||MP: Nagchandreshwar temple puja done sans devotees||UJJAIN: Doors of Nagchandreshwar temple in Ujjain were opened on Saturday for traditional prayers on the occasion of Nag Panchami, but entry of devotees to the sanctum sanctorum was restricted due to Covid-19 pandemic. Nagchandreshwar temple – situated on the rising tower of Mahakaleshwar temple — is opened for prayers for 24 hours once in a year on Nag Panchami. The celebrations started at midnight with the opening of doors and a special puja was offered by Shri Panchayati Mahanirmani Akhara Mahant Vineetgiri Maharaj. Prayers were also offered by additional SP Rupesh Dwivedi and Mahakal temple administrator SS Rawat. The Lord Nagchandreshwar temple hosts an 11th-century idol of Lord Shiva sitting on the throne of a snake with seven wide hooded heads. The temple was constructed by Parmar King Bhoj in 1050 AD.  The images from the sanctorum were telecast live on local television channels and Mahakaleshwar temple website. The devotees were however allowed to offer prayers at Mahakal temple after registering themselves online. Later during the day, district collector Asheesh Singh performed traditional prayers at Nagchandreshwar temple as part of the offerings from local government. Divisional commissioner Anand Sharma, inspector general of police Rakesh Gupta and SP Manoj Singh were also present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/nagchandreshwar-temple-puja-done-sans-devotees/articleshow/77174867.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Vacate hostels or pay fine, St Stephen’s College tells students||NEW DELHI: Amid the prevailing pandemic situation, St Stephen’s College has asked its hostel students to vacate their rooms. The college, in a notice issued on July 25, has stated that students who will not remove their belongings from the rooms will be charged a fine of Rs 100 per day from August 7 till when the college reopens. Several faculty members and students have opposed this “diktat” as many students are unable to travel to Delhi because of the Covid-19 crisis. Students have expressed their “shock” over the notice. The principal, however, said that the college needs vacant rooms to make them ready for the new session, which is unlikely to happen before October. “The least we expected was a financial burden on students. It is unnecessary as the college isn’t opening anytime soon and the admission process is still going on. There is nobody on the campus and no mess service is going on. So there is no logistical rationale behind this Rs 100 fine,” said a hostel resident. Another student added that “the new rate of Rs 100 per day will translate to around Rs 3,000 per month for keeping our belongings in our own rooms. This is more than double the amount of the room rent charge, which is Rs 1,400 per month.” A faculty member said that the charge “defeats the spirit of the student’s movement that currently demands a waiver of semester fees.” “Why should students pay rent when they have not been here? Before they left, they were not asked to clear out their belongings. Now, they want them to come back during a raging pandemic just to clear out their belongings, which is unjustified,” the teacher added. Speaking to TOI, the principal of the college, John Varghese said that “the colleges closed in March and this is July. We need to be ready for the next session and certain things need to be done, such as maintenance and repair. Several communications have been sent to them and it is about time they come back to take away their belongings as a new year is beginning and a new set of students will come. Residents’ admission happens each year and they have to apply for it every time.” The principal maintained that the lockdown has been lifted and they will be charging students only from August 7. Earlier on June 23, a notice by the dean (residence) had asked the St Stephen’s students to “vacate their rooms and remove their belongings from college residence within five days beginning from Monday, June 29.” Students’ Union Society had then written a letter to the principal stating that it was difficult for most resident junior members to travel to Delhi. “Since the cases of Covid-19 are on an alarming rise in Delhi, most guardians of the junior members are afraid to send their children back to vacate their rooms. Also, since travel guidelines are still restricted, it will be difficult to vacate rooms and transport all belongings back home,” the letter read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/vacate-hostels-or-pay-fine-st-stephens-tells-students/articleshow/77176121.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
July 26, 2020||Kochi||Academic autonomy for 3 private engineering colleges in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: University Grants Commission (UGC), with the concurrence of state government, decided to grant autonomous status to three private engineering colleges in the state. The colleges — Saintgits College of Engineering, Kottayam, Rajagiri School of Engineering, Kochi and Mar Baselios College of Engineering and Technology, Thiruvananthapuram— have managed to claim autonomous status, braving several odds. Though political dogma had been stifling LDF government from agreeing to the demand for academic autonomy for private engineering colleges, it was forced to support it since UGC’s revised guidelines has almost silenced state governments in matters such as autonomy. The colleges, , all run by Christian managements, had approached UGC shortly after it announced the 2018 regulations without the backing of the state government or the technological university they are affiliated to. But the 2018 UGC regulations emphatically clarified that no institutions, if they satisfy the quality criteria, can be denied academic autonomy even if it meant UGC bestowing the same to such institutions without the endorsement of the states concerned. According to UGC guidelines, engineering colleges having NAAC accreditation with A grade can seek academic autonomy, provided they also have NBA accreditation with score above 675 for at least three engineering departments. In case the government and university refuse to nominate representatives in the five-member inspection team in which there would be UGC nominees, or fail to raise, within in one month, specific objections against granting autonomy to higher education institutions after expert assessment, the consent would be deemed as given. Eventually, with little options left, the state higher education department had deigned to nominate a government representative to the committee early this year after an expert committee set by the government too had recommended against making any fuss over the academic autonomy. Following the UGC decision, which the state government was informed on July 15, 2020, the state higher education department has asked APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University to take further steps for preparing a framework that would give autonomous institutions the powers guaranteed by UGC. According to sources, more than half a dozen engineering colleges in the state are currently eligible to seek academic autonomy and several among them were about to approach UGC. However, certain government engineering colleges, though eligible for academic autonomy are said to have expressed no interest in pursuing academic autonomy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/academic-autonomy-for-3-private-engineering-colleges-in-kerala/articleshow/77178629.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Bareilly||Tele-medicine facility for Bareilly dist jail inmates launched||BAREILLY: Inmates of Bareilly district jail can now consult doctors at King George's Medical University (KGMU) in Lucknow through video-conferencing. A tele-medicine facility was launched on Saturday. Jail's medical personnel have been provided a tablet phone and a smart TV to enable them to consult with the experts of KGMU through video-conferencing. The KGMU doctors will be able to virtually examine the patients with the support of jail medical staff. The facility will reduce frequent trips of ill inmates to hospitals outside and help jail doctors to get a second opinion. There are nearly 2,800 inmates lodged in Bareilly district jail. Prior to the lockdown, jail administration used to send more than 10 inmates a day for treatment to outside facilities. Jail superintendent Vijay Vikram Singh told TOI, “This is the second such centre in UP district jails. The first one started in Lucknow district jail. We are expecting this trial to be quite successful as every inmate with even minor medical issues will be able to get advice from KGMU experts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/tele-medicine-facility-for-bareilly-dist-jail-inmates-launched/articleshow/77172732.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 26, 2020||Thane||Action against Thane hospital for overcharging||THANE: Thane municipal corporation on Saturday withdrew classification of Horizon Prime hospital as a dedicated Covid-19 hospital and suspended its operating licence for a month following allegations of overcharging. “It cannot admit new patients but existing ones will continue to be treated as per ICMR protocols. Two officials will monitor the situation till then,” said deputy municipal commissioner Sandeep Malvi. Officials said overcharging was usually in the guise of PPE and service charges. The management allegedly failed to respond to civic audit objections, officials said. “An audit team analysed 797 bills of patients treated till July 12 and found overcharging in 56 bills totalling more than Rs 6 lakh. We issued notices on July 20 seeking response a within two days which they ignored,” an officer said. Dr Hrishikesh Vaidya, medical director at the hospital, said, “The action is harsh and disheartening, when we have been consistently giving services for three months for the well-being of patients. We will appeal before the civic chief,” he said. He attributed the action to miscommunication with the civic administration, adding that the management responded to the notice. Horizon Prime hospital was classified to treat comorbid Covid positive patients on April 2 by the civic body and was directed to levy charges as per government rates. A civic panel of auditors found 15 private hospitals indulging in overcharging of patients. “We checked 845 bills, of which, nearly 45% (386) overcharged . We had given show-cause notices to the hospitals. So far, 26 patients have been refunded excess money. Horizon refunded over Rs46,000 to 24 patients, and Rs13,000 was refunded to two patients by another hospital,” said a civic official. Meanwhile, Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) which recently formed a flying squad issued notices to three hospitals and recovered more than Rs 3 lakh from one which charged excessively a patient’s relative who died during treatment. Vinay Kulkarni, who heads the squad, said, “We recently received complaints from relatives of a Covid patient who died during treatment saying the hospital charged Rs 4.8 lakh. We verified and found the hospital had charged an excess amount of Rs 3,36,000 from the patient’s relative.” The team also received complaints against two other hospitals and notices have been issued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/action-against-thane-hosp-for-overcharging/articleshow/77174969.cms||Manoj Badgeri
July 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Academic autonomy for 3 private engineering colleges in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: University Grants Commission (UGC), with the concurrence of state government, decided to grant autonomous status to three private engineering colleges in the state. The colleges — Saintgits College of Engineering, Kottayam, Rajagiri School of Engineering, Kochi and Mar Baselios College of Engineering and Technology, Thiruvananthapuram— have managed to claim autonomous status, braving several odds. Though political dogma had been stifling LDF government from agreeing to the demand for academic autonomy for private engineering colleges, it was forced to support it since UGC’s revised guidelines has almost silenced state governments in matters such as autonomy. The colleges, , all run by Christian managements, had approached UGC shortly after it announced the 2018 regulations without the backing of the state government or the technological university they are affiliated to. But the 2018 UGC regulations emphatically clarified that no institutions, if they satisfy the quality criteria, can be denied academic autonomy even if it meant UGC bestowing the same to such institutions without the endorsement of the states concerned. According to UGC guidelines, engineering colleges having NAAC accreditation with A grade can seek academic autonomy, provided they also have NBA accreditation with score above 675 for at least three engineering departments. In case the government and university refuse to nominate representatives in the five-member inspection team in which there would be UGC nominees, or fail to raise, within in one month, specific objections against granting autonomy to higher education institutions after expert assessment, the consent would be deemed as given. Eventually, with little options left, the state higher education department had deigned to nominate a government representative to the committee early this year after an expert committee set by the government too had recommended against making any fuss over the academic autonomy. Following the UGC decision, which the state government was informed on July 15, 2020, the state higher education department has asked APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University to take further steps for preparing a framework that would give autonomous institutions the powers guaranteed by UGC. According to sources, more than half a dozen engineering colleges in the state are currently eligible to seek academic autonomy and several among them were about to approach UGC. However, certain government engineering colleges, though eligible for academic autonomy are said to have expressed no interest in pursuing academic autonomy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/academic-autonomy-for-3-private-engineering-colleges-in-kerala/articleshow/77173999.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Kozhikode||Academic autonomy for 3 private engineering colleges in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: University Grants Commission (UGC), with the concurrence of state government, decided to grant autonomous status to three private engineering colleges in the state. The colleges — Saintgits College of Engineering, Kottayam, Rajagiri School of Engineering, Kochi and Mar Baselios College of Engineering and Technology, Thiruvananthapuram— have managed to claim autonomous status, braving several odds. Though political dogma had been stifling LDF government from agreeing to the demand for academic autonomy for private engineering colleges, it was forced to support it since UGC’s revised guidelines has almost silenced state governments in matters such as autonomy. The colleges, , all run by Christian managements, had approached UGC shortly after it announced the 2018 regulations without the backing of the state government or the technological university they are affiliated to. But the 2018 UGC regulations emphatically clarified that no institutions, if they satisfy the quality criteria, can be denied academic autonomy even if it meant UGC bestowing the same to such institutions without the endorsement of the states concerned. According to UGC guidelines, engineering colleges having NAAC accreditation with A grade can seek academic autonomy, provided they also have NBA accreditation with score above 675 for at least three engineering departments. In case the government and university refuse to nominate representatives in the five-member inspection team in which there would be UGC nominees, or fail to raise, within in one month, specific objections against granting autonomy to higher education institutions after expert assessment, the consent would be deemed as given. Eventually, with little options left, the state higher education department had deigned to nominate a government representative to the committee early this year after an expert committee set by the government too had recommended against making any fuss over the academic autonomy. Following the UGC decision, which the state government was informed on July 15, 2020, the state higher education department has asked APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University to take further steps for preparing a framework that would give autonomous institutions the powers guaranteed by UGC. According to sources, more than half a dozen engineering colleges in the state are currently eligible to seek academic autonomy and several among them were about to approach UGC. However, certain government engineering colleges, though eligible for academic autonomy are said to have expressed no interest in pursuing academic autonomy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/academic-autonomy-for-3-private-engineering-colleges-in-kerala/articleshow/77178628.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Application deadline for Polycet extended||Hyderabad: The Telangana State Board of Technical Education and Training extended the last date for submission of polytechnic common entrance test (Polycet) application up to July 30. According to a press release issued by the board, candidates keen to apply for Polycet-2020 can pay Rs 300 and apply for examination, date of which is yet to be finalised by the Telangana State Council of Higher Education. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/application-deadline-for-polycet-extended/articleshow/77174891.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Bhopal||Lockdown hits pockets of rakhi sellers in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Ramesh Lal (name changed on request), a 45-year-old man who earns his living by hemming and stitching saree falls in Lal Ghati area, had thought of making ends meet by selling rakhis this season as the three-month lockdown had put an end to his business, and his family is now on the verge of starvation. Borrowing money from friends, he purchased a stock of rakhis in the hope of earning some money during the festive season. The 10-day lockdown has not only dashed all his hopes of earning bare minimum to feed his family, it has also put him under debt when he has already been unable to pay his house and shop rent. This is the story of many small vendors in the city who were hoping to do some business before Rakshabandhan after the dry-spell of lockdown that had made things difficult for them. Depending upon their capacity, many vendors purchased stocks of rakhis, ranging from simple ones to the fanciest, for the festival but it has become dead-stock now, adding to their woes. Hariom Khatik, member of the Bittan Market Vyapari Sangh said, vendors purchased stocks of the colourful rakhis worth Rs 10,000 to Rs 50,000, depending on their own financial condition. Some had borrowed money from friends while others went to landlords and private investors for funds. Ajay Agarwal, chairperson of New Market Vyapari Sangh said, "Rakhi market is seasonal and not many permanent vendors set shops on the occasion. It is mostly local vendors who set up shops on the streets. But many permanent shopkeepers do buy new stock of saris, suits, jewellery etc. as these are purchased by people as gift items. The stock of rakhis has now turned into dead-stock as the rakhis get discoloured and go out of fashion by next year."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/lockdown-hits-pockets-of-rakhi-sellers/articleshow/77174893.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Lucknow||UP: ‘Wrap up remaining 50% work of Purvanchal e-way soon’||LUCKNOW: Chief executive officer of Uttar Pradesh Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) Awanish Awasthi held a review meeting of the Purvanchal Expressway on Saturday. He told the project developers that the remaining 50% work of the expressway should be completed at the earliest. Soon after returning from Ayodhya, where Awasthi had accompanied chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Awasthi called a video meeting with the project developers to review the remaining work. He expressed satisfaction over the completion of 50% work on the Purvanchal Expressway. The expressway is the dream project of the chief minister, who is also personally monitoring the pace of work and wants it to be completed at the earliest. Awasthi, who is also additional chief secretary, home, information and religious affairs, had convened the meeting late in the evening. “There is no shortage of funds and the developers will get full support in completion of the project,” said Awasthi at the meeting. He also said that during the construction work, social distancing norms and Covid-19 protocol should be followed strictly. The UPEIDA CEO informed that the work for Bundelkhand Expressway was also in full swing and nearly 10% of the work had been completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/wrap-up-remaining-50-work-of-purvanchal-e-way-soon/articleshow/77176143.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Chennai||Overflowing sewage unending problem for Pallavaram residents||CHENNAI: Pallavaram municipality near Chennai has a functional underground drainage system, but residents of areas under it continue to struggle with sewage overflowing on to roads and into homes. M S Vaidhyanathan of New Colony said almost every week, there was a block in the manhole forcing sewage into storm water drains. “This enters houses as well on First Main Road and First Cross Street among others. During the lockdown, we are extremely worried as it is not just risky but may spread other diseases as well. Most storm water drains are also choked with garbage dumped into them,” he said. Vaidhyanathan, who has complained to the engineers concerned and the municipal commissioner, said the problem had persisted for the last two years and had become very frequent in the last two months. “Earlier, once in six months we would get it cleared. Now, we need to get it done every week,” he said. V Santhanam, an activist from the area, said Metrowater had laid underground drainage pipes in 2016-17 and handed over the maintenance responsibility to the municipality. “Since it is not done properly, sewage is overflowing on to roads and into homes. Especially on the eastern side of Chromepet, many pipes have burst and sewage is seeping into houses. The municipality is unable to maintain it. Many of us still have septic tanks as we don’t trust the work of the municipality,” he said. C Mathivanan, commissioner of the municipality, said several pipes were damaged due to construction work on Thoraipakkam-Pallavaram Radial Road. “A huge pipe burst near a bus stand and we had to rectify it. During the pandemic, it is difficult to get pipes repaired. The municipality sends sewage through pipes to the Perungudi treatment plant. We have pumping stations at seven locations. Blockages in the storm water drain network are a main issue. We will resolve it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/overflowing-sewage-unending-problem-for-pallavaram-residents/articleshow/77174901.cms||Komal Gautham
July 26, 2020||Trichy||Professionals to replace sick staff in Trichy med college lab||Trichy: After frontline health workers started getting infected with Covid-19, the health department has started looking for alternative arrangements including recruiting qualified hands to run the show. KAP Viswanatham Government Medical College has started searching for qualified people to involve them in Covid-19 testing. Dean of KAPVGMC attached to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy Dr K Vanitha expressed its willingness to recruit qualified professionals with bachelors or master’s degrees in microbiology or biotechnology for joining the team in its Covid-19 lab on a provisional basis. “If candidates with microbiology or biotechnology degree come forward to work with us on a provisional basis, it would be of great help. Such candidates can be given training on Covid-19 testing,” Vanitha told ToI. She also stated that they can take some candidates and train them on Covid-19 testing to substitute the infected staff. As of now, a microbiologist, two lab technicians and a data entry operator at the lab tested positive for Covid-19. Being the only government laboratory in the district, it has the capacity to test 1,200 samples per day. However, a senior doctor in the college said that it would be ideal to run 800 testing on a day given the existing infrastructure such as real time-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) machines and RNA extractor machine. It may be noted that the turnaround time (TAT) for releasing the Covid-19 testing also got longer as the number of samples being collected on a daily basis crossed 1,300. Since it took nearly four days to declare the results, the district administration had cleared the backlog by testing around 1,600 samples at a private laboratory. Trichy collector S Sivarasu had also revealed a plan of increasing the testing capacity to 1,500. With one RT-PCR machine malfunctioning recently, the lab managed to run the show with three such machines. On Friday, National Research Centre for Banana (NRCB), Trichy gave them an RT-PCR machine for Covid-19 testing. “We have four RT-PCR machines. The number of machines may be increased soon,” said the dean.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/professionals-to-replace-sick-staff-in-trichy-med-college-lab/articleshow/77176149.cms||Gokul Rajendran
July 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19 safety key device launched||Hyderabad: A ‘Labcube Covid safety key’ device, which detects and prevents direct contact with Covid-19 infected surfaces, developed by a Hyderabad based startup Labcube company, was launched by Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy on Friday. The device, made of special grade brass, is meant for use in public places to detect infected surfaces. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-safety-key-device-launched/articleshow/77174918.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Trichy||Law college student found dead in his room||Trichy: A law student in Trichy was found dead with his face covered with a polythene bag tied with a nylon rope at his room in Mannarpuram in the city on Friday. The deceased has been identified as B Siddhant Singh, 24, a third year LLB student of Tamil Nadu National Law University (TNNLU) at Navalur Kottapattu on Dindigul road on the outskirts of Trichy. He was a native of Chandigarh in Punjab. He took a house for rent on the second floor of a building in Nadu Street at Mannarpuram in June after the closure of the college hostel due to Covid-19. A foul smell was emanating from his room in the afternoon on Friday, following which a tenant on the ground floor informed police. A police team from Cantonment crime police led by inspector Balaji visited the spot. His room was locked from inside. Police broke open the door and found the decomposed body of Siddhant Singh with his face covered in a polythene cover of an e-commerce company with a nylon rope tied around his neck. Police took the decomposed body to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH). Police assumed that the death could have occurred at least three days ago. TNNLU PRO K Veerasamy lodged a complaint with police. The preliminary enquiry revealed that he was unable to return to his native place due to the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/law-college-student-found-dead-in-his-room/articleshow/77176150.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress will expose atrocities on Dalits, says Uttam Reddy||HYDERABAD: Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Saturday called upon the party leaders and cadre to participate in ‘Chalo Mallaram’ programme being organised by the Scheduled Caste wing of the TPCC on July 26. The programme is being organised to protest against the atrocities against Dalits under TRS government. A Dalit youth, Revuli Raja, was brutally murdered in Mallaram in Malhar mandal of Bhupalapally district. Uttam said this was not isolated incidents as atrocities have been perpetrated on several Dalits in the last 6 years. “The Congress will expose the atrocities on Dalits in TRS rule,” he said, and demanded protection and justice for the victims and their families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-will-expose-atrocities-on-dalits/articleshow/77174925.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Vadodara||Not able to use it, man steals father’s car in Vadodara||VADODARA: A man living in Akota stole his father’s car, which was rented out to a relative, so that he could use it. Sadique Sheikh along with two friends , Jalalluddin Sheikh and Imran Sheikh, were arrested on Friday by JP Road police for the crime. According to police, the trio stole Sadique’s father’s car from Tandalja in the wee hours of July 18 after the relative, who had taken the car on rent, had asked his employee to keep the car with him for a day for some work. Police said that the son was miffed with his father as despite having their own car he was not able to use it. “He had even planned to sell the car as he was in need of money,” said a police official. Cops cracked the case using the footages of CCTV cameras in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/not-able-to-use-it-man-steals-fathers-car/articleshow/77173072.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Bhopal||MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan stand-ins for corona review a mix of work and political balance||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who was admitted to hospital after testing positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, has put four ministers in charge of the daily Corona review, a responsibility he has handled since March 25. The chosen ones -- home minister Narottam Mishra, urban development and administration minister Bhupendra Singh, medical education minister Vishwas Sarang and health minister Prabhu Ram Choudhary – suggest not only an attempt to get key departments involved, but also to strike political balance. Mishra, who holds number two position in the Chouhan government, used to be part of Chouhan’s Corona review meets as he was health minister till the July 2 cabinet expansion. Bhupendra Singh holds the important charge of urban administration -- the department which governs all municipal bodies and is not only responsible for sanitation but also handles supply of fruits and vegetables during lockdown. Sarang is medical education minister, which is also key as it has control over all medical colleges and monitors quarantine and treatment facilities. To add to it, he was earlier Bhopal gas tragedy relief minister, a portfolio which he holds now as well. Gas victims are particularly vulnerable to the virus and make up a high percentage of Covid deaths in Bhopal. Choudhary, as health minister, holds the most important department in the fight against Coronavirus. It is well known in the state cabinet that Bhupendra Singh and Sarang are Chouhan loyalists. Choudhary is a Scindia man, and had quit Congress to join BJP in June. He has been health minister for barely 12 days as portfolios were allocated on July 13. He was school education minister in the earlier Nath administration. CM tweeted he would try to take part in the Corona review meet through video conferencing, but in his absence the four ministers will handle the responsibility. Senior officials said the CM may not be able to attend the review meet on a few occasions due to health issues, but he would monitor the situation daily and will take briefings on the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cms-stand-ins-for-corona-review-a-mix-of-work-political-balance/articleshow/77174927.cms||Ankur Sirothia
July 26, 2020||Trichy||Two minors sexually abused in Trichy, Pudukottai||TRICHY: Two child sexual abuse cases were reported in Trichy and Pudukottai on Friday and Saturday. The all-women police station (AWPS), Pudukottai arrested Aravindan, 20, of Malligai Natham area in Pudukottai district on charges of sexually assaulting a seven-year-old girl of the same area. Her parents are daily wage labourers. After the couple went for work on Friday, the youth entered the house and sexually assaulted her. When her parents returned, they came to know about the incident. They reported the issue with the Gandharvakottai police. Police forwarded the case to AWPS, Pudukottai. AWPS inspector Kavitha said that preliminary inquiry revealed that Aravindan, who is also a relative of the girl, had committed the crime and was booked under four sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. She said that the accused was arrested. In another incident, a 17-year old girl became pregnant after she was raped by a 23-year-old man on the promise of marrying her. AWPS registered a case against S Vijay Subramani of Anthoniyar Kovil Street in Airport under POCSO on charges of impregnating a minor. Inquiry revealed that Subramani had come to her house with a proposal to marry the girl. But, her mother turned down his proposal. On July 23, the girl eloped with him and she was traced to Manapparai. On her return, she told her mother that Subramani raped her at his house on February 14 on the promise of marrying her, resulting in her pregnancy. Police arrested Subramani. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/2-minors-sexually-abused-in-trichy-pudukottai/articleshow/77176179.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Trichy||Corpn workers bat for lockdown in Trichy||Trichy: There is a strong opinion among frontline workers as well as officials of Trichy corporation that there should be a complete lockdown in the city at least for a week as it was done in Chennai. This comes close on the heels of Indian Medical Association (IMA) Trichy branch batting for it for at least two weeks to contain the spread of Covid-19. Employees of the civic body said the lockdown will help ramp up fever screening besides giving some breathing space for the exhausted staff. They have been into contact tracing, containment zone formation and disinfection drives for four months now. Their demand stems from the fact that the city has witnessed a 115% surge in active Covid-19 cases in a week. From 381 active cases on July 17, the number went up to 510 on July 20, and further surged to 818 on July 24. “We will get some respite through the lockdown if imposed. Most of us are physically and psychologically exhausted due to the Covid-19 routine,” an officer with Trichy corporation said. Citing the Chennai model of lockdown coupled with rampant testing, officials said that lockdown in Trichy will pave the way for enhanced fever surveillance. A section of residents also feels that it will help them curtail movement of people from hotspots to safer zones. “People must refrain from venturing out for unwanted reasons. Frequent handwash and mandatory wearing of face masks only will help us contain the cases,” an epidemiologist told TOI. Except for distributing Kabasura Kudineer, immunity boosters and isolating the Covid-19 hotspots, the civic body has no other plans to contain the fresh cases from surfacing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/corpn-workers-bat-for-lockdown-in-trichy/articleshow/77176155.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 26, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Seven jail inmates, 22 healthcare workers of private hospital test +ve for Covid-19||DEHRADUN: Seven jail inmates and 22 healthcare workers of a private hospital were among the 244 new Covid-19 positive cases reported from Uttarakhand on Saturday. One person also passed away at Doon hospital, which took the toll to 63. Dehradun's chief medical officer (CMO) Dr BC Ramola informed that a jail inmate from Suddhowala, who was brought to AIIMS Rishikesh earlier this week after he complained of heartache, has tested Covid-19 positive. “We then tested over 70 jail inmates on Saturday and seven among them were also found to be positive,” said Dr Ramola, who added that 72 new cases have surfaced in the state capital on Saturday, among which 22 were healthcare workers of a private hospital. “The private hospital, whose 10 workers have tested positive on Friday and 22 on Saturday, will not be sealed and be allowed to treat patients after sanitisation,” said Dr Ramola. Also, 11 districts among 13 have reported Covid cases on Saturday. Haridwar reported 61 fresh cases, followed by 30 from Nainital and 23 from Udham Singh Nagar. Pithoragarh also reported 18 new cases on Saturday while 12 cases were reported from Uttarkashi. Champawat reported nine new cases while Almora and Pauri reported six each. Tehri reported four new cases followed by three in Bageshwar. Abhishek Tripathi from the 'Covid-19 war room' informed that a 70-year-old woman who had tested positive for the virus, last week, died during treatment at the Government Doon Medical College on Saturday. “The cause of her death has been described as Type 1 Respiratory Failure, as per the death summary provided by the hospital,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/7-jail-inmates-22-healthcare-workers-of-pvt-hospital-test-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/77172804.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 26, 2020||Bhopal||Chouhan 5th person in CM secretariat to test positive||Bhopal: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan was the fifth person in his office to have tested Covid-19 positive ever since the Coronavirus outbreak in the state since March this year. Earlier, four corona positive cases were reported from the CM secretariat.CM secretariat is located on the fifth floor of Vallabh Bhawan II. In all, some 20 employees have tested positive so far in the Vallabh Bhawan II building which houses CM’s office, besides other important government offices.On July 1, a peon of an official in CM secretariat tested corona positive while between July 13 and July 14 two personal assistants of one of the OSDs to CM were found corona positive.Before chief minister Shivraj SIngh Chouhan tested corona positive on Saturday, another employee in the CM secretariat tested positive, aking the total number of corona positives found on Saturday to two including CM Chouhan. The total number of corona positives found in all three Vallabh Bhavan buildings including I, II and III are now 26. Of them, two employees have lost lives due to corona so far. The state secretariat is divided into three interlinked buildings. Old building is called as Vallabh Bhavan I, while the new buildings are called as Vallabh Bhavan II and Vallabh Bhavan III. Office of urban administration and development department and home department of which an employee died were in Vallabh Bhavan II. The departments in which corona positives have been found in all three Vallabh Bhavan buildings are commercial taxes department, urban administration department, energy department, CM secretariat, health department, finance department, law department, medical education, home department, transport department, forest department and panchayat department. Of them, 20 are from VB II building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/chouhan-5th-person-in-cm-secretariat-to-test-positive/articleshow/77174945.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Kochi||Western with Carnatic twist cheers up Big B||KOCHI: A couple of contagious carnatic pop fusion tracks accompanied by Ukulele riffs uploaded on her social media pages had transformed Arya Dhayal into a viral music sensation in less than three weeks. But a generous praise by actor Amitabh Bachchan on Saturday catapulted the student of music to celeb status. “My music partner and dear friend sent me this .. I do not know who this is but I can just say “girl you are a very special talent .. God bless you .. keep up the good work .. you have brightened my day in the hospital like never before ..” wrote Bachchan on his numbered social media posts on Twitter and Facebook. Bachchan Sr is currently under treatment at Nanavati Hospital in Mumbai after testing positive for Covid-19. T 3605 - My music partner and dear friend sent me this .. I do not know who this is but I can just say “You are a v… https://t.co/KU4KPbTkuL— Amitabh Bachchan (@SrBachchan) 1595655743000“Mixing Karnatak [Carnatic] and Western pop is not an easy task .. but she has done it with such finesse and aplomb .. there is no compromise on either style .. simply amazing!!,” Bachchan wrote while sharing the video of Dhayal singing a remixed version of Ed Sheeran’s chart-busting pop single ‘Shape of You’. “I was pleasantly surprised when I came to know he shared the Ed Sheeran version. I thought it would be the remix of ‘Believer’ by Imagine Dragons,” says Dhayal, a 24-year-old from Kannur who shot into limelight in 2016 after a poem ‘Sakhavu’ (comrade) she sang and uploaded on Facebook became viral. Her version of ‘Believer’ with Thodi raga thrown in as a starter ends with a Kathakali padam from Nalacharitham. The song garnered 2.3 lakh views on Instagram in just three weeks. Dhayal, who also holds a postgraduate degree in statistics, says she had been training herself to be a singer for the past 20 years. “I had bought an Ukulele recently and these songs happened while experimenting with it,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/western-with-carnatic-twist-cheers-up-big-b/articleshow/77174089.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Two brain-dead minors give new lease of life to 5||CHANDIGARH: Five terminally ill patients got a lease of life at PGI after a heart and four kidneys were transplanted from a 10-year-old girl and 11-year-old boy, who were declared brain death at PGI. Two kidneys were transplanted and heart was donated by the 10-year-old girl. The deceased girl had a fatal fall from height on July 14 at her home. After initial treatment at the GMCH, Sector 32, she was shifted to PGI the same day. Battling for life for over a week, she succumbed and was declared brain dead on July 24. This is the 6th heart transplant that has been conducted in PGI till date. The heart recipient is a 13-year-old boy. Prof Jagat Ram, director, PGI, said, “Covid-19 cases are increasing and therefore, introducing those waiting to receive an organ in the Covid-19 crisis as well as conducting transplants is ridden with multiple challenges.” Prof Ashish Sharma, head, department of renal transplant surgery, PGI, who led the procedure for the transplant of four kidneys back to back, said, “Special precautions were taken to proceed with the transplant. The deceased donor as well as both recipients were tested and confirmed Covid-19 negative. Fortunately, all four kidneys of both the donors in the recipients have started to function well. The recipients were grateful to the donor families as all four were on dialysis for more than 3 years.” Earlier on July 22, the family of 11-year-old Amandeep from Chikha villagein Rupnagar district, displayed the rare courage of organ donation of his deceased son, who was admitted to PGI on July 16 with intracranial bleed. His condition kept worsening and finally Amandeep was declared brain dead on July 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-brain-dead-minors-give-new-lease-of-life-to-5/articleshow/77174053.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh receives 3 bids for Kishangarh STP project||CHANDIGARH: The engineering department of the Chandigarh administration has received three bids, including one from a Delhi firm, in response to the tender floated for the Rs 19-crore project to construct a seventh sewage treatment plant (STP) in Kishangarh village. According to sources, technical evaluation of the bids will be completed in a couple of days, after which financial bids will be opened. The process to award the contract to the successful bidder is likely to take a couple of weeks. The successful bidder will not only set up the STP, but will also bear its operation and maintenance (O&M) cost for the next 11 years. The STP has been planned with the 2 BOD (bio-chemical oxygen demand) level specifications having latest filters and related machinery for best cleaning of the sewage. As the cleaned sewage water will go to Sukhna Lake to fill it during the summer season as per requirement, it will be crucial for the authorities to employ the best technology. When not required in the lake, the water is proposed to be used as tertiary treated (TT) water for non-potable purposes. The said STP will have a capacity of 2 MLD and it will take all the sewage of Kishangarh village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-receives-3-bids-for-kishangarh-stp-project/articleshow/77174054.cms||Deepak Yadav
July 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Banks in Mohali told to beef up security||By: Piyush Sarna MOHALI: Amid rising cases of ATM thefts and robbery in the Mohali district, the police officials have now written a letter to all private as well as government banks in the district to level up their security measures and take all precautions to avoid such circumstances. The police have asked the bank officials to make sure that there is a security guard outside each ATM and if keeping a security guard is not feasible for them, they should at least install proper CCTVs with proper backup or live feed so even if the miscreants decamp with DVR or destroy the CCTV camera, the feed is still secure which will further help the police officials in investigation. The police have also asked them to install a proper install system. In the recently held robbery, in which miscreants decamped with Rs 8.48 lakh cash in Gharuan, the alarm of the ATM didn’t ring. Superintendent of police, investigation, Harmandeep Singh Hans,said, “Each bank should install a panic button which will help them prevent robberies and thefts. Also, each station house officer (SHO) of the district has been directed to make sure that each bank and ATM complies with rules and regulations for safety.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/banks-told-to-beef-up-security/articleshow/77174058.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Dehradun||Dues of Rs 50 lakh ‘not cleared’ by state, Haridwar hospital turns away patients under Atal Ayushman||Dehradun: After complaints that a private hospital in Haridwar was turning away patients under the Atal Ayushman Uttarakhand Yojana because it said that the state government had held back over Rs 50 lakh in dues, the health department, dismissing the hospital’s claim, issued it a warning and has now asked the hospital to start admitting patients registered with the scheme again. On June 30, Akash Saini from Roorkee tried to get his 70-year-old grandmother Moorti Devi admitted to the hospital. But she was “denied admission,” he said in a complaint to the Uttarakhand Human Rights Commission on July 20. He was told that the hospital was not taking in any patient under the Atal Ayushman Uttarakhand Yojana, citing unpaid dues of over Rs 50 lakh from the state government. “I tried to approach local health department officials in Haridwar. But no one paid heed to my complaint. So I had to take it to the commission,” said Saini. Additional health secretary Arunendra Singh Chauhan told TOI that after the health department came to know of the matter, it got in touch with the hospital. “They admitted that they had refused to take in the patient. The hospital has been warned. No hospital enlisted with us under the Atal Ayushman scheme can deny treatment to patients. We clear dues every seven days when a patient is from Uttarakhand and within two weeks at the most if it’s someone from outside the state. The dues the hospital spoke of were those we had rejected,” Singh said. Health department sources said a few other cases of hospitals refusing admission or charging more money had been reported and are being investigated. A representative of the hospital meanwhile said he does not want to comment because discussions with the health department are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dues-of-rs-50-lakh-not-cleared-by-state-haridwar-hospital-turns-away-patients-under-atal-ayushman/articleshow/77172814.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 26, 2020||Bhopal||716 new cases as Corona count nears 27,000 in MP||Bhopal: With 716 new people testing positive for Covid-19 on Friday, the tally of positive cases in the state rose to 26,926. Besides, eight casualties were also reported, says the state health bulletin. Of which, four deaths were reported in Bhopal district and one death each in Indore, Ujjain, Jabalpur, and Chhatarpur districts. So far, 13,333 new cases have been reported in the state since July 1. Thus on an average, more than 500 positive cases are being reported everyday in July. Alarmingly, while fresh cases were reported from 47 out of the 52 districts, deaths were also reported from six districts on Saturday. Total 799 deaths have been reported in the state, of which 227 deaths have been reported in the month of July alone. As per the state health bulletin, the highest 153 new positive cases were reported in Indore district on Saturday. In 16 of these 47 districts that reported fresh cases on Saturday, new cases were reported in double figures. On the brighter side, 622 people have recovered and were discharged from hospitals. The total number of patients who have recovered from the disease reached 18,488. Thus the recovery rate slipped to 68.6%. It was more than 76% on July 1. A total of 2,980 localities across 52 districts have been declared as containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/716-new-cases-as-corona-count-nears-27000-in-mp/articleshow/77174960.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Dehradun||Loudspeaker ban to remain as U’khand HC judge differs with chief justice, matter to now go to third judge||Nainital: An application on use of loudspeakers in religious institutions has left a division bench of the Uttarakhand high court divided. While a judgement by Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan modified a 2018 order and allowed loudspeakers with sound level of 60 decibels in religious places, his partner judge, Justice Lokpal Singh, has registered his difference with the chief justice. This means the ban on loudspeakers above 5dB(A) continues to remain in place in the state and the matter will now be referred to a third judge. On Thursday, it was reported that the division bench of Chief Justice Ranganathan and Justice Lok Pal Singh had modified a judgment on loudspeakers issued in 2018 while calling it an “accidental error”. In June 2018, a division bench of Justice Rajiv Sharma and Justice Lok Pal Singh had set 5dB(A) as the noise limit for loudspeakers in religious institutions. While 0dB(A) level is the threshold for hearing, a 10dB(A) level is roughly equal to the sound of human breathing. The modified order allowed the use of loudspeakers whose sound level ranged to 60 dB(A). However, it emerged on Friday that the order was only by the chief justice while Justice Lok Pal Singh has actually rejected the plea seeking the modification. The application was filed before the HC on behalf of the Jama Masjid of Bazpur area in US Nagar district. On his part, Justice Lok Pal Singh mentioned several reasons for the rejection of the application, including locus standi of the applicant and casting aspersions on the court. During one of the hearings, T A Khan, the counsel appearing for the applicant had remarked that if the member of the division bench — referring to Justice Lok Pal Singh — is not inclined to grant relief, the application should be dismissed. At this, the judge had objected and said that the statement was contemptuous and “the application is liable to be rejected on this ground alone”. In his judgment, Singh also argued that when the applicant had approached the high court earlier this year, the bench of Chief Justice Ranganathan and Justice R C Khulbe had opined that a modification application should be filed in the matter. The applicant had moved the present application based on the advice of the bench of which the chief justice was a part. Singh also cited an apex court order which held that no person should adjudicate a dispute which he or she has dealt with in any capacity. “In such a situation, Hon’ble Chief Justice should not have constituted the present bench comprising himself on the principle of natural justice i.e. no person shall be a judge in his own cause,” said Justice Singh in his judgment. The matter will now be referred to a third judge after instructions from the chief justice. “In view of the divergence of opinion between both the judges, let the matter be referred to a third judge after obtaining orders of the chief justice,” read the court order on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/loudspeaker-ban-to-remain-as-ukhand-hc-judge-differs-with-chief-justice-matter-to-now-go-to-third-judge/articleshow/77172821.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Nagpur||Record 13 Covid-19 cases recorded in Wardha district||Wardha: The district recorded 13 Covid-19 positive patients, its highest singe-day spike so far, on Saturday. Of the 13 patients, eight are from Arvi and five from Sahur village of Ashti tehsil. The day also saw 10 patients getting discharged from the hospitals after recovery. In Sahur village, five cases were detected with rapid antigen tests. They include two male (48 and 30) and three female (38, 11 and 9). Patients from Arvi include four female (24, 27, 47 and 58) and four male (64, 39, 50 and 22).Patients from Arvi, Kakada village of Karanja tehsil and Wardha were discharged. They were admitted to Covid Care Centre as their areas have been declared containment zones. They will be allowed to go home once restrictions are lifted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/record-13-covid-19-cases-recorded-in-wardha-district/articleshow/77176193.cms||Balwant Dhage
July 26, 2020||Thane||Photos: Container falls 40 ft from bridge in Thane, driver killed||THANE: A loaded container mounted on a truck slid off its trolley and crashed 40feet from Majiwada bridge, and the driver was flung off from the cabin and died with the impact after he slammed the brakes while manoeuvring a curve at 2.45am on the Mumbai-bound arm. Thane traffic police and regional disaster management cell (RDMC) officials said the 25-year-old driver was allegedly speeding and probably lost control of the vehicle. “Nearby residents heard a loud sound and rescue teams found the container with pharma materials lying on the road. The driver was few metres ahead with severe head injuries. The truck and its trolley were standing still at the curve on the bridge,” said RDMC chief Santosh Kadam. Traffic police said they had to deploy two huge cranes to remove the container. “We suspect the driver was alone and was over-speeding. It was headed towards Nashik. The stretch is mishap-prone,” a traffic cop said. Kapurbawdi police station senior inspector V Deshmukh said an accidental death case was registered. Meanwhile, in two incidents, a loaded concrete mixer overturned at a sharp curve near Gaimukh on Saturday morning, spilling concrete on the road while a car later rammed into the divider a short distance away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/container-falls-40-ft-from-bridge-in-thane-driver-killed/articleshow/77175044.cms||Manoj Badgeri
July 26, 2020||Trichy||30 SBI staff test Covid-19 positive in Trichy||TRICHY: Thirty employees of the State Bank of India (SBI) administrative office on McDonalds Road in Trichy tested positive for Covid-19, while a senior manager succumbed to the disease, the first casualty among bank employees in the district. Employees claimed that there were at least 38 positive cases in the campus. Senior bankers and Trichy Corporation acknowledged that banking sector employees are gradually contracting Covid-19 in several parts of the city. An official working in the campus said that a mass screening was conducted for about 80 employees on July 22. While the results that came out the next day revealed that 38 employees, including temporary messengers had tested positive, the bank management maintained that only 30 were positive. A 58-year-old assistant general manager (AGM) who had comorbidities succumbed at a private hospital on Friday evening. Although people with chronic illness were entitled to avail relaxations, SBI sources said that the deceased manager reported for work since he was unit head. “We had a significant number of customers, including pensioners visiting the branch, to withdraw money. There were several loan inquiries in the last week,” an SBI employee under home quarantine said. The campus was closed on Friday after the employees tested positive. “SBI campus has to be disinfected. Will request the district administration to keep the campus closed for three consecutive days till Wednesday,” V Sathyanarayanan, lead district bank manager told TOI. However, a senior official said that it would reopen on Monday as fumigation was carried out. Around 300 employees are working in the campus of which at least 10% tested positive. “We have followed all the safety measures. One AGM in the branch died of Covid-19 as he had pre-existing diseases,” a senior manager with SBI Trichy told TOI. Trichy Corporation officials assured to trace the contacts including the customers who visited the bank last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/30-sbi-staff-test-positive-in-trichy/articleshow/77176194.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 26, 2020||Kochi||Officials struggle to contain virus spread in Aluva, Chellanam clusters||KOCHI: The number of Covid positive cases continues to rise in many parts of Ernakulam, outside the known clusters aggravating the fear of community transmission. Though the health department and district administration managed to contain the spread in some clusters like Ernakulam Market and Chellanam, they strain every nerve to contain the same in Aluva area. The old age home at Thrikkakara, where 43 positive cases have been reported till Firday, officials fear, could be hotbed of more cases. The source of infection of all the first cases in all these places are still unknown. But health officials say that the source might be from a market or harbour, where people gather in large numbers. The first positive case in Ernakulam Market was reported on June 27. The administration closed the whole market area three days later after two more people tested positive. The strict containment lasted for 20 days, preventing the spreading of infection in Ernakulam Market. While in Aluva area, where the administration is still struggling to contain the infection, Covid-19 spreads to more areas outside the containment zones. “In Ernakulam Market, the first case was reported in a staff of a wholesale shop, not in a retail shop, where more people come in contact with the trader. Besides, many staff in the market reside in and around the market. More importantly, no cases reported among headload workers and autorickshaw drivers in Ernakulam market. This helped prevent the spread of infection to more areas. But the case is different in Aluva, where the infection was first reported among autorickshaw drivers, headload workers, tea shop owner and retail trader, who mingle with hundreds of people every day. Those working in the Aluva market are from other neighbouring local bodies and they travel every morning to the market. A positive case in Athirappilly is connected to Aluva. Besides, the neighbouring local bodies are thickly populated furthering the infection,” says a district health official. While in Chellanam, he said the social, physical and mental health played a part in spreading as well as preventing the fatality. “Wards 15, 16 and 17 were severely affected when the cases started to report in the first week of July. Realizing the social situation, we closed the whole panchayat and now the number of cases is coming down. Fishermen are physically and mentally strong as they venture into turbulent sea every time. Their social life contributed to spreading the infection. But their physical and mental strength saved them from fatalities. There is an 85-year-old man, family member of the first case, who is still under treatment. But he is not sick. Their diet, which mostly contains fish, also helped Chellanam natives to stay fit at this trying time. It is the mobility and difficulty in maintaining social distancing, which contributed to the spread of infection in Aluva area and Chellanam,” he says. Though the cases reporting from clusters in Chellanam and Aluva region comprising Keezhmad are coming down, more sporadic cases are reported from every nook and corner of the district. In view of this, health experts call for more testing, in which Ernakulam lags badly behind Thiruvananthapuram. “Not even one per cent of people in clusters are tested in Ernakulam. In Ponnani, which is under triple lockdown, around 15,000 people were tested. New Delhi managed to control the infection through mass testing, isolation and control. The state government wants to show less number of cases being reported from Kerala,” says a health expert in Ernakulam. IMA officials say there is community spread in the district. “We have to accept the fact of community spread. At least 5,000 tests should be conducted in the district per day,” says IMA-Ernakulam chapter president Dr Junaid Rahman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/officials-struggle-to-contain-virus-spread-in-aluva-chellanam-clusters/articleshow/77174123.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Trichy||Containment norms relaxed in Big Bazaar St despite more cases||Trichy: After completing 14 days, Trichy City Corporation on Friday relaxed the containment norms in Big Bazaar Street zone that covered three corporation wards. Despite the containment measures, the area recorded 24 fresh Covid-19 positive cases in the past five days. But the urban local body, which credited the containment plan for successfully preventing the disease spread to other parts, was keen on relaxing the restrictions. On July 10, the corporation established a large containment zone covering ward number 16, 17 and 18 in Srirangam as the area reported more than 150 Covid-19 positive cases. More than 30 entry points and exits were barricaded, but residents used the gaps between the barricades to violate the containment norms. The people in the area have been pressurizing the civic body to relax the restrictions. “Containing only a few wards made the local people yearn for relaxations as the rest of the city had no such restrictions,” G Krishna, a resident of Big Bazaar Street, said. The adherence to the containment practices in the early days also faded away, pushing the civic body to relax the restrictions. The relaxation has come at a time when the city is witnessing a sharp surge in fresh positive cases in the past one week. White Betel Street, Kalla Street, Thayalkara Street, Jaffer Shah Street and Diamond Bazaar Street covered under the containment zone continue to report 1-3 positive cases per day in the last five days. While it is mandatory for the civic body to extend the containment if positive cases were reported, such measures were not initiated in the area though Big Bazaar Street recorded 24 cases in the last five days. As the norms were relaxed, huge crowds back began to appear in the hotspot on Saturday. “The positive cases reported in the containment area in the past few days were that of family contacts. The containment measure was helpful, if we had not contained the hotspot, more cases would have surfaced,” Trichy Corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said. The civic body said that the containment practice prevented the outsiders from frequenting the hotspot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/containment-norms-relaxed-in-big-bazaar-st-despite-more-cases/articleshow/77176203.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 26, 2020||Bareilly||In a first, mills to pay 85% sale value of cane byproducts to clear farmers’ dues||Pilibhit: In a first, state sugarcane administration has decided that 85% of the sale value of byproducts of sugarcane -- molasses, bagasese, press-mud and ethanol -- derived by sugar mills will be tagged for cane price payment. Till now, the tagging policy was applicable only to sugar stocks. Principal secretary, sugarcane and sugar industry, UP government, Sanjay R. Bhoosreddy said the modified tagging system will help speed up clearance of cane price arrears. Industry sources revealed that 92 mills in the private sector, 24 cooperative and three mills of UP Sugar Mill Corporation presently owe farmers around Rs 13,000 crore as cane dues. “The sugar mills which have established their own distillery units to utilize the mother unit’s byproducts for producing alcohol will have to pay 85% of the value of molasses and bagasse from the accounts of respective distillery units for writing off the cane price arrears,” he said. “In addition, 30% of the sale value of ethanol produced from C-grade molasses, 55% produced from B-heavy molasses and 80% produced directly from sugarcane juice will be used for repaying the cane price dues," Bhoosreddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/in-a-first-mills-to-pay-85-sale-value-of-cane-byproducts-to-clear-farmers-dues/articleshow/77169976.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Lucknow||UP records 3,000 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, Covid tally hits 63,000||LUCKNOW: The Covid-19 tally for UP crossed the 63,000-mark on Saturday with a record 2,984 new cases in the past 24 hours. A look at the details revealed that 35% of the cases belonged to just five districts: Lucknow (429), Ballia (174), Kanpur (171), Varanasi (164) and Ghaziabad (101). Additional chief secretary Panchyati Raj and rural development Manoj Kumar Singh said: “Alarmed over the situation, the CM has instructed senior officials including chief secretary RK Tiwari and additional chief secretary health Amit Mohan to take stock of the situation in several high-burden districts like Kanpur, Jhansi, Prayagraj and Gorakhpur.” The official bulletin also revealed that big cities including Gorakhpur (93), Gautam Budh Nagar (85), Prayagraj (82), Meerut (49), Jhansi (47), Bareilly (36) and Agra (18) added another 13.7% of the cases. Several districts including Azamgarh, Jaunpur and Barabanki recorded spikes with 74, 61 and 59 entries. The state also recorded the death of 39 people due to the pandemic infection in the past 24 hours which took the total Covid-19 deaths to 1,387. Five deaths each were recorded in Kanpur Nagar and Varanasi. Four persons died in Gorakhpur while two deaths each were reported in Prayagraj, Bareilly, Firozabad and Sultanpur. Districts of Balrampur, Bahraich, Bhadohi, Rae Bareli, Pilibhit, Mau, Kannauj, Etawah, Rampur, Sant Kabir Nagar, Hardoi, Sambhal, Bulandshahr, Moradabad, Jhansi and Lucknow recorded one death each. Officials also informed that 2,191 people had been discharged from different hospitals taking the total number of recoveries to 39,930. Singh also said that extensive cleanliness drives were underway in the state every weekend to ensure that vector-borne diseases stay under control. He also said that the CM had instructed officials to prepare a proposal for procurement of advanced life support ambulances to ensure that people in need do not suffer. He also said that the CM reiterated that efforts must be made to undertake 1 lakh tests per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/3k-infected-on-sat-covid-tally-hits-63k/articleshow/77176202.cms||Shailvee Sharda
July 26, 2020||Bhopal||After tablets & drinks, immunity-booster sarees enter the fray||Bhopal: Covid season has definitely made immunity the buzz word. After health supplements, vitamin tablets and kadhas to boost immunity during the pandemic, the latest entrants in the field are immunity-booster sarees. Yes, MP Handicraft and Handloom Development Corporation has now come up with sarees treated with traditional herbs and spices to boost skin’s immunity. Called Ayurvastra- a garment that ensures better health and long life, it was popular in ancient times, claimed officials and added that concerns over health issues led the corporation to adopt this ancient technique to promote immunity along with fashion. Corporation conducted two months’ trial before finally going ahead with the immunity-booster apparel. Officials said Chanderi immunity-booster sarees have been introduced initially and the next in line are Bagh print sarees. Treatment of a saree with herbs takes more than two days’ time. Herbs and spices used for making immunity-booster clothes include cinnamon, cardamom, ginger, clove, nutmeg, turmeric etc. In this process, herbs and spices are traditionally crushed using iron, mortar and hands as experts believe that grinding spices in machines destroys their benefits. The spices are later tied in a cloth and left soaked in water for 48 hours so that water absorbs all the medicinal properties. This water with medicinal values is boiled in a furnace and the bag of spices is also kept in the pot.Then the clothes are treated for an hour with its steam before they are packed in airtight bags to retain freshness. Officials said immunity-booster sarees keep bacteria at bay even after four to five washes. The treated clothes increase skin’s capacity to fight viruses. MP handicrafts and handloom commissioner Rajeev Sharma said, “Such clothes are needed at present times. We have introduced this ancient immunity-booster technique in sarees for now, but will bring it in other range of garments as well. The treatment of clothes using herbs and spices increases its cost by 10 per cent to 20 per cent, but most of the sarees are under Rs 5,000. The sarees are already available at Mrignayani store in the state capital,” he said, adding that gradually it would be made available in more stores. MP Handicraft and Handloom Development Corporation has 29 showrooms named Mrignayani in Mumbai, Bangalore, Noida, Chennai, Goa, Jaipur and Ahmedabad, apart from the state capital. Its showrooms in metropolitan cities also offer handmade customised sarees with silver wires and gold coating. At least 13,000 handicraft units are working in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/after-tablets-drinks-immunity-booster-sarees-enter-the-fray/articleshow/77175052.cms||Ankur Sirothia
July 26, 2020||Goa||DoE asks schools to consider online admissions to Class XI||Panaji: With the Class X state board results scheduled to be declared on July 28, the directorate of education (DoE) has asked higher secondary schools to consider carrying out the admission process online as much as possible. Director Santosh Amonkar said that when the admissions cannot take place online, it should be ensured that social distancing and other norms are followed . Nearly, 20,000 students are awaiting their results for the Class X exam of the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education. “As you all are aware the results of Secondary School Certificate Examination conducted by Goa Board are expected to be announced on July 28 and, soon after the students receive their marksheets, there will be a rush for admission to various higher secondary schools,” Amonkar said in the circular. The instructions have been issued to all government and aided higher secondary schools in Goa. “All the heads of higher secondary schools under the jurisdiction of the directorate are hereby informed to explore the possibility of an online admission process as far as possible to avoid the students visiting the schools. Wherever not possible, alternative arrangements as usual may be made following all the guidelines issued in view of Covid-19 pandemic,” Amonkar said. Considering that in 2019 the pass percentage at the Goa Board Class X exam was over 92%, most of these 20,000 students will qualify for admissions to Class XI. This will lead to rush at higher secondary schools if admissions take place physically as usual. Besides students from the Goa Board, another 1000-odd students, who clear Class X from the central boards like CICSE and CBSE, also join state board schools at the higher secondary level. After the declaration of the Class XII results by Goa Board, the directorate of higher education (DHE) had kept the admission process to first year on hold for around 15 days. The admissions took place only after DHE put in place a centralized admission system, through which admissions were possible online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/doe-asks-schools-to-consider-online-admissions-to-class-xi/articleshow/77175060.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Trichy||Better chance for state board students to join central institutions||Trichy: There is a better chance of state board students getting into central institutions this year as they just need to clear Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) irrespective of the marks they have scored in Class XII board exams. Till now, students needed to score 75% marks in the board exams to get admission even if they cleared JEE. According to the announcement of human resource development ministry, students need only a passing certificate from the Class XII board exam to join centrally funded institutions like National Institute of Technology. Due to the revised syllabus and new question paper pattern, the number of students getting distinction in science stream has drastically come down this year. Every year, around 10,000 students appear for JEE from the state and this year, more than 3,000 students from government schools were given coaching for cracking JEE. “Many candidates from government schools will have an opportunity this year if they manage to clear JEE main,” said V Sanjeev from IGNITTE, a teaching club of NIT Trichy which trains students. Last year, G Jansi, a disabled candidate from Tamil medium government school in Perambalur district, managed to clear JEE. She even secured a seat in NIT Trichy, one of the top-ranked technical institutions in the country. However, she lost the opportunity for not securing 65% marks in her state board examination (Disabled and SC, ST candidates need to score at least 65% in boards) Sanjeev said that many bright students have not secured over 80-90% in class XII board examination this year though they are capable of it. Hence, this relaxation will be a morale booster for them. NIT Trichy director Mini Shaji Thomas told TOI that this is a one-time relaxation because of the Covid-19 situation so that everybody gets an opportunity. The move will help some who are genuinely affected. “It may also help those who are not affected and that we cannot help as we are trying to help everyone,” she said. JEE main exam was already held once in January and it will be held again in September. Based on the performance in these tests, admission will be made to centrally funded technical institutions other than IIT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/better-chance-for-state-board-students-to-join-central-institutions/articleshow/77176207.cms||Sampath Kumar
July 26, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand govt looking into proposal to use gold ash preparation for Covid immunity||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand Ayurved University has proposed that Swarnaprash, an Ayurvedic preparation with gold ash, should be administered to children to “boost immunity against Covid-19”. Ayush secretary Dilip Jawalkar said the proposal is being evaluated by the department.The state has more than 25 lakh children younger than 14 years. Dr Mayank Srivastava, assistant professor at the Uttarakhand Ayurved University’s paediatric wing.said that the university had studied the effects of Swarnaprash on the growth, development and immunity of children. He added that the Swarnaprash preparation has been used since ancient times as an immunity-booster for children, and research conducted by the university has also testified to its efficacy. He said that from time to time, Swarnaprash camps have been held in the past for children by the university. “We have also sent a proposal regarding Swarnaprash administration to children to the Rashtriya Ayurveda Vidyapeeth, which advises the Ayush ministry,” said Srivastava. Regarding the cost of the preparation, he said, “Because of the threat of Covid-19, the most reasonable approach to administer this is to give daily dosage of a quarter of a milligram over a month. The cost of one dose would be between Rs 25 and 35, which comes to about Rs 750 to Rs 1,000 a month.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-govt-looking-into-proposal-to-use-gold-ash-preparation-for-covid-immunity/articleshow/77172864.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 26, 2020||Bhopal||MP board class 12 results will be out tomorrow||Bhopal: The Madhya Pradesh Board Of Secondary Education (MPBSE) will declare the class 12 results on July 27 at 3 pm. After the declaration of CBSE and ISC class 12 results, students of MP board are getting impatient over results as they have to provide their marksheets and scores before seeking admission to different colleges. The MP board counselling helplines are flooded with calls with each counsellor attending over 100 calls per day from students panicking over class 12 results. The helpline received 1,30,000 calls in four months (April to July 25). “After the declaration of the result by CBSE, students of MP Board are worried that if the result of class 12 is delayed, it may create problems in admission,” said, Hemant Sharma, director Vighyan Kendra, MPBSE. Board’s 18 counsellors, spread in three shifts, are getting around 1,800 to 2,000 calls per day on an average. Many students who could not appear for the remaining class 12 exams are also calling helplines to know the dates of special exams. Sharma said, “The board had decided to conduct special exams for students who were quarantined, found Covid-19 positive or had any positive case in their family, to minimise the risk of infection for other students. They are now asking about the dates of their exams.” He further said, “Only MP board had conducted the exams for remaining subjects, while all other state boards had cancelled the remaining exams, or had finished them in March itself. This has caused a delay in declaration of results as after the exams, the copies had to be properly evaluated, which took some time. Only after the announcement of results, dates for supplementary exams and special exams will be declared.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-board-class-12-results-will-be-out-tomorrow/articleshow/77175062.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Trichy||Villagers allege scam in PMAY housing scheme, file plaint||Tiruvarur: Residents of Thalayamangalam village near Mannargudi in Tiruvarur district have lodged complaints with the police alleging misappropriation of funds to construct houses under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana scheme. According to the police, 22 residents of Thalayamangalam, including C Arumugam, 60, have lodged separate complaints with the police station. In the complaints, they have said that they came to know that as per government records, houses and toilets were ‘constructed’ on their patta land under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana scheme. However, houses or toilets have not been constructed on their lands. Addressing reporters about the complaints on Saturday, Tiruvarur DMK MLA Poondi Kalaivanan urged the government to appoint a senior IAS officer to inquire into the embezzlement in the name of constructing houses and toilets. “The misappropriation took place between 2016-19. Without constructing 142 houses, the money has been swindled. Only 31 houses have been constructed in the village, that too only for AIADMK members. The entire money has been swindled without the knowledge of beneficiaries those who applied under the scheme,” he alleged. Kalaivanan also alleged that money has also been swindled in the name of coronavirus. “As per Covid-19 protocol, it is mandatory to isolate symptomatic people for at least 7 days. However, authorities in Tiruvarur send back them within 3 days. However, it is said that they are preparing records stating that they stayed for 7 days. That should also be inquired into it. We are planning to move the court in this regard,” he added. Meanwhile, official sources said that district collector T Anand has ordered for an inquiry to probe the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/villagers-allege-scam-in-pmay-housing-scheme-file-plaint/articleshow/77176210.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Kochi||Covid in Kochi: Demand for more quarantine centres||KOCHI: Reporting of 14 positive cases from Fort Kochi on Saturday highlights the need for ensuring effective quarantine facilities in West Kochi region. Of the 14 cases, 13 are reported out of contact from Fort Kochi area and one case is a Kumbalangi resident who returned from Dubai. On Thursday, nine cases were reported from the region. Moreover, the administration had declared Nampyapuram division of Kochi corporation as a containment zone. The councillors from the region have been raising the demand for effective institutionalized quarantine facilities to contain community spread. “If people are sent to home quarantine, it will increase the risk of community spread. It is a region where families live in single rooms and tiny houses. In case authorities fail to provide institutionalized quarantine facilities, it will expose more people to the deadly virus,” said corporation former councillor K M Rahim. The people’s representatives from West Kochi have been raising the issue and the risk of children getting exposed to the virus. As the houses are too small, children share the same space with the parents or relatives who are under home quarantine. “Children and pregnant women are at risk. Kochi corporation should intervene in the issue and provide better quarantine facilities,” said Kalvathy division Zeenath Rasheed. Meanwhile, corporation officials stated that as the number of people residing in these areas are comparatively high, it has become difficult for them to provide institutionalized quarantine facility for all. Corporation secretary Rahul R Pillai said: “We attend all emergency cases, and quarantine facilities are provided to those who are in need.” About the demand from the councillors, he said: “The matter will be brought to the attention of the district collector. The local body is monitoring the situation in West Kochi.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/demand-for-more-quarantine-centres/articleshow/77174162.cms||Greeshma Gopal Giri
July 26, 2020||Madurai||Ancient site claimed to be nearly 2,500 years old found near Usilampatti||Madurai: An ancient burial site, which could be a contemporary to the Keeladi civilization, has been found in Ulaipatti village near Usilampatti in Madurai, where different types of burials have been in practice. Archaeological officer for Thirumalai Naicker Mahal, K Sakthivel, said a few educationists including professors at the Gandhigram Rural Institute, P Murugesan, and assistant professor of history at the Manonmaniam Sundaranar University, Chenraya Perumal stumbled upon this site and brought it to his notice. The site is on the western side of Ulaipatti inside the forest area. “There are all types of burial symbols like urns, cists, cairn circles and menhirs. We explored just a small portion of it but it many extend to over 10km,” Sakthivel said, adding that they had all signs to show that it could date back to about 2,500 years. Some of the burial urns have been vandalized by locals maybe in search of treasure, but some of them are surrounded by cairn circles of huge boulders, which would have required about five to six men to carry each boulder, he said. The menhirs found here are about three feet high, but there are sites where they are over 12ft tall, he said. Cists are made of four stone slabs, interlocked and placed under ground and the urn is placed within it and closed with the fifth slab. “We also noticed small dumps of iron, which may be indicative of an iron industry having functioned in the vicinity,” Sakthivel said. Early man had learnt the art of extracting iron from laterite stones which are rich in iron. Since these stones were not found here, they may have obtained it from black sand that used to get washed down from the streams, he said. Murugesan said there is evidence that a civilized society inhabited this region and this should be brought out to the world. “We hope excavations are taken up here also,” he said. Interestingly, the Telugu-speaking Rajakambalathar community in the village still follows some of these ancient burial practices. People from the community collect a bone each from the head, hip and leg of the cremated body, bring it to a site near a 15th century temple “Malaikoil”, which has four pillars and a roof, and bury it in a pit and place a small stone above it, like a menhir. Priest of that temple, Chelladurai says that this practice is called “oppukkal”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ancient-site-claimed-to-be-nearly-2500-years-old-found-near-usilampatti/articleshow/77176406.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Mumbai||25 ambulances donated to mark Maharashtra CM’s birthday||MUMBAI: In response to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s appeal on organising social and healthcare activities to mark his birthday on Monday, his colleague, Anil Parab and Shiv Sena MP Arvind Sawant jointly donated 25 ambulances to Shiv Sena. Patients in Mumbai are finding it difficult to get an ambulance to take patients to hospital during Covid-19. Thackeray appreciated the initiative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/25-ambulances-donated-to-mark-cms-birthday/articleshow/77175103.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Trichy||Thanjavur sees at least 100 cases a day now||Thanjavur: The district has been witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases on a daily basis and is second to Trichy, with 3,289 cases, in the central region with 1,892 cases. Thanjavur has been daily recording an mean average of 100 cases daily since Monday, of which most of the cases were from Kumbakonam, particularly from Darasuram vegetable market. More number of cases have been emerging as tracing has been increased in the district. According to the district collector, around 2,000 testing has been conducted in the district. Collector M Govinda Rao said that so far 11,958 people have been tested for fever in 180 camps. As the number of cases in Thanjavur, Kumbakonam and Pattukottai were more when compared to other areas in the district, infrastructure has been improved accordingly. “People across the district are being keenly monitored by special committees to make them adhere to social distancing and wearing masks in such a way to combat Covid-19 effectively. On this line, 26,000 people have been slapped a fine of Rs 100 each for not wearing masks,” he added. Next to Kumbakonam, a considerable number of cases have been emerging from Pattukottai and Athirampattinam. The collector visited the fever camps in the two areas and the Covid-19 centre established in the newly built slum clearance board building, on Saturday. Meanwhile, the primary health centre in Kabisthalam was closed after two staff nurses tested positive. The two nurses had attended a pregnant woman for delivery who tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/thanjavur-sees-at-least-100-cases-a-day-now/articleshow/77176211.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
July 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Jockeying for co-opted posts begins||Hyderabad: With notifications being issued by the municipalities and municipal corporations for filling up co-opted member posts, MLAs and ministers are now under pressure to accommodate their supporters, local leaders and those who could not be accommodated in the recent municipal elections. Those who held a post of mayor, deputy mayor, sarpanch, upa sarpanch or ward member for five years are eligible to be elected for co-opted member. Similarly, an advocate who served as municipal standing counsel, for three years and a retired gazetted officer, both central and state governments, can also be a co-opted member. “Those who could not be given tickets in municipal elections are now queuing before MLAs and mounting pressures to accommodate them. On an average, there are 40 to 50 aspirants in a civic body,” a TRS state leader said. Some persons are even approaching district ministers for getting the posts. As there is a great demand and consensus on the co-opted members, the ruling MLAs are reportedly asking to delay in giving notifications. “If notification is issued already, the election would be postponed by not attending the council meeting for election. The election can be postponed twice due to lack of quorum,” a mayor of the corporation said. The co-opted members are other than the elected members in every civic body who are generally nominated. While four members in municipalities, five members have to be elected in municipal corporations. Generally, co-opted members have to be elected within 60 days of municipal elections. Due to Covid-19 pandemic, the municipal administration could not announce co-option elections. Director of municipal administration N Satyanarayana has issued a circular to all the municipalities for completion of co-opted members election process. However, the commissioners have been asked to take a call on the local conditions before giving notifications. Of the 141 urban local bodies, separare notifications have been issued in 76 municipalities by the respective municipal commissioners. Generally, co-opted members have to be elected within 60 days of municipal elections||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jockeying-for-co-opted-posts-begins/articleshow/77175069.cms||Koride Mahesh
July 26, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Now, election in schools goes online||KOCHI: After admissions and online classes, city schools have now taken school elections, investiture and oath taking ceremonies too online. Participants, including guests of honour, interacted with students through video conferencing and the new council members took oath by sitting in their houses. These ceremonies are usually conducted at the school with mandatory participation of all students. However, as uncertainty looms over reopening of schools, authorities decided to conduct them online. They said it was essential to keep students engaged with routine school activities and doing them online was the only option. Global Public School, Thiruvaniyur, invested responsibilities in 63 members of its student council in an online ceremony. Chief guest Dr Asha Vijayan (medical superintendent, Muvattupuzha government hospital) addressed the newly-selected council members in a live interactive session. Following this, school principal Sreekumar Kartha delivered his speech thereby investing the students with their respective responsibilities. “Our society is grappling with the pandemic imposed restrictions but we have to keep going. The online investiture ceremony is an illustration of how a challenge can be turned into an opportunity,” said Kartha. Assisi Vidyanikethan Public School, Kakkanad, too conducted the election of its student council online. “A free and fair election was conducted online and the new designates were inducted into the cabinet. The event was marked by the office-bearers taking oath. These activities play a decisive role in keeping in mind the spirit of healthy competition and fairness. The ceremony was aired on Google Meet platform,” said Suma Paul, principal of Assisi. The schools under Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan Kochi Kendra will conduct the investiture soon. Toc H Public School, Vyttilla, have already designated the student leaders and their oath-taking will be conducted via online meeting. “The only academic activity happening now is online learning. It will be monotonous for students if they are kept away from the routine activities like division of students into houses and their competition in various activities. The council nurtures the leadership and organising skills. Though the virtual conduct is not effective, it is important to have them conducted,” said Juby Paul, principal, Toc H Public School.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/now-election-in-schools-goes-online/articleshow/77174165.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
July 26, 2020||Madurai||Over 10K fined for no masks in Madurai, tea shops see big crowd||Madurai: The Madurai city police have caught 10,427 people for not wearing facemask, the highest among various departments monitoring in the district. They have collected a fine of Rs 17.2 lakh till Friday. The rural police has caught 8,317 people and collected a fine of Rs 151 lakh. So far, 43,433 people have been caught for violating the mask rule and fined Rs 67.1 lakh in the district. Flying squads consisting of officials from various departments formed by Madurai district administration, Madurai corporation, municipality officials, town panchayats and village panchayat are also levying fine for mask violation. Madurai city police officials said that not wearing a mask is viewed as a serious offence and offenders are levied a fine of Rs 200. Police teams on rounds have been asked to keep an eye on the public including traders. The fine amount is also levied against those who have pulled their masks down to the chin, say officials. A senior official said that they have been receiving a good number of complaints against people not wearing masks through the city police WhatsApp number. It is ensured that the violators are taken to task, he said. However, people complain that adequate check is not being done at tea and coffee stalls, where a large number of people gather without following social distancing norms. People chat for long even after finishing their cup of hot beverage, posing risk to others. Stall owners are helpless as they would tend to pick up a quarrel with them. S Kaliaperumal, a resident of Chinna Chokkikulam said “People come together and smoke, have a cup of tea and chat on roadsides. It does not look like a restriction imposed due to Covid-19 pandemic is still in place. It is fine if they are not scared, but they pose risk to others,” he said. An official from Madurai corporation said that an instruction will be given to health teams for intensive monitoring at the tea and coffee shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/over-10k-fined-for-no-masks-in-madurai-tea-shops-see-big-crowd/articleshow/77176407.cms||V Devanathan
July 26, 2020||Madurai||Guard chased away by armed robber||Madurai: A security person hired by residents of Mahal Panthadi in the city was chased away by a sickle wielding thief on Saturday. The residents had appointed the security guard a few days ago after the locality witnessed a spurt in bike theft cases in the last one month. The CCTV footage available with the residents association shows that the thief chasing away Velmurugan, the security guard, at around 6.15am despite vehicle movements on the nearby road. “All the streets in the area has been brought under CCTV surveillance and the footage is promptly maintained. Whenever, there is a requirement it is handed over to the police concerned,” they said. Mahal Panthadi Residents Welfare Association secretary R Rathinakumar said that at least six bike thefts have taken place in and around their locality. Only two of them have been reported to the local police station and one of them has been recovered. Thieves mostly operate between 3am and 5am, he said. “There were a couple of chain snatching attempts too in the last one month. Women in particular are scared by the incidents. In order to check frequent crime incidents, we roped in a security through a security service company. But thieves do loot undeterred by his presence,” he said. The residents from the locality have urged the city police to increase police rounds during the night. They said that they have reported the latest incident to the South Gate police. A sub-inspector of police visited the area and conducted an inquiry. Meanwhile, they have appealed higher officials to concentrate more in their locality. City police commissioner Prem Anand Sinha assured of increasing vigilance in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/guard-chased-away-by-armed-robber/articleshow/77176410.cms||V Devanathan
July 26, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: At Dakshineswar, temple panel opts for safety over tradition||KOLKATA: Forced to choose between a 165-year-old tradition and safety, Dakhineswar temple authorities have selected the latter. The coronavirus scare has brought a change in the tradition and customs of the temple. The Ma Bhabatarini mandir at Dakshineswar shut down in March due to a nationwide lockdown has reopened with a striking change — PPE-clad priests performing pujas in the sanctum sanctorum. TimesViewPopular culture has to address the concerns of the age and adapt to its needs. This is what we are seeing in various places of worship. We must keep in mind that any place, where there are mass congregations, is high-risk and must behave accordingly.Author Sanjib Chattopadhyay felt Ramakrishna Paramahansa, Dakshineswar’s most celebrated priest, may have reacted differently to it. “I can’t accept that the priests have to remain in constant fear while performing the pujas in the sanctum sanctorum. How will the devotees react? Ramakrishna Paramahansa, the 19th century Bengal renaissance personality was also a priest who made the Kali temple famous, but with a difference. When he was appointed as a priest he would offer the puja in the simplest form. Clad in a loincloth he would spend hours at the temple but was not interested in performing pujas based on rituals only. People from all walks of life could go to him and talk at length to quench their thirst for spirituality. Now priests are looking like men from the outer world. Visitors to the temple will get frightened even to approach them for pujas,” Chattopadhyay said. However, Chattopadhyay said he was not averse to devotees taking basic safety measures before entering the temple. Kushal Chowdhury, the trustee and the secretary of the temple committee made it clear that the committee decided to make it mandatory for the priests to wear PPE just to safeguard the health of the visitors as well as the priests. “We have arranged for three-layer safety measures for the visitors and our employees. The last layer of such safety measures happens to be the sanctum sanctorum. Here we have been compelled to ask the priests to wear PPE as they are coming in close contact with the devotees every day,” Chowdhury said. In 1855, Ramkumar Chattopadhyay, the elder brother of Gadadhar Chattopadhyay (Ramakrishna Paramhansa) was appointed as the priest of the newly built Dakshineswar Kali temple by Rani Rashmoni. Kaushik Gupta, a north Kolkata resident and a businessman who has been a regular to the temple won’t mind going through sanitization channels or cover his face with a mask and stand in the queue following social-distancing norms. But Gupta said he was feeling uncomfortable at the sight of PPE-clad priests. “The scene is really disturbing my mind. The sanctum sanctorum is a place where no outsider is allowed. Then why is the priest made to wear PPE?” he asked. But, Soumili Chatterjee, a south Kolkata resident and a government official who frequently visits the temple felt the temple committee was the best judge to determine the kind of safety measures required for visitors. “If a priest wears PPE, why should I object?” Chatterjee asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/at-dakshineswar-temple-panel-opts-for-safety-over-tradition/articleshow/77175120.cms||Saikat Ray
July 26, 2020||Kolkata||In locked-down city, speeding bizman injures cops on Bypass||Kolkata: A car speeding down EM Bypass, with a police vehicle in hot pursuit on lockdown Saturday, hit two policemen while attempting to flee a traffic check-point. One of the cops suffered a fracture. The 32-year-old businessman at the wheel was arrested and two other occupants in the car — a man and a woman — were detained. The short-yet-dramatic chase between the Science City crossing and Uttar Panchannagram lasted less than a couple of minutes, but people were shaken by the reckless manner in which 32-year-old Raunak Agarwal drove the car to evade the cops. The incident took place around 10.30am on Saturday at Uttar Panchannagram, a few hundred metres from Ambedkar bridge. According to police, the orange hatchback was first flagged down at the EM Bypass-Park Circus intersection near Science City as part of the intensified checks on vehicles out on a day of complete lockdown. But the car swerved around the guard rails and sped towards the Ambedkar bridge. Tanmoy Das, a constable from the Tiljala traffic guard, along with three civic volunteers, including Babai Mullick, was on duty at the Uttar Panchannagram crossing. Das said cops at the Science City crossing had alerted him about the car on walkie talkie. “We rushed to draw the guard rails across the road so that the car could be stopped. We could see the orange car at a distance behind four-five other vehicles,” Das said. While the other vehicles slowed down and stopped on seeing the cops trying to cordon off the road, Agarwal reportedly suddenly stopped his vehicle and attempted to reverse. But with vehicles rushing in from behind, he apparently realized it would be difficult. Seeing a police vehicle drawing up behind him, Agarwal shifted gears and accelerated forward. Seeing the car hurtle towards the road barriers, Mallick tried to roll the guard rail across while Das tried to flag the car down. But Agarwal reportedly did not stop. He ran over Das’s foot and brushed past Mullick, flinging him to one side. But with more guard rails in front, the car was caught in a maze and Agarwal had no option but to stop. Residents of the area rushed in, pulled Agarwal out and reportedly gave him a thrashing, while some even smashed his cars windows. The three were then taken to the police station, while Das was taken to Ruby Hospital. Agarwal, who owns a manufacturing unit and is into export, lives on Sarat Bose Road. His family denied he was at fault. Instead, they claimed, Agarwal had left home on receiving calls from two friends, who wanted to be dropped home. “He had not gone out for a spin. He is a law-abiding citizen. The cops at the naka were unusually harsh on him and they allowed him to be manhandled and his car damaged. This happened even after he stopped the car and apologized,” the family said in a statement issued on Saturday evening. DC (southeast) Debasmita Das said multiple sections of the IPC and Disaster Management Act had been slapped on Agarwal. “It was a case of disobeying lockdown, driving in a rash and negligent manner, deterring a public servant from carrying out his duty and voluntarily causing hurt,” said Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-locked-down-city-speeding-bizman-injures-cops-on-bypass/articleshow/77175131.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 26, 2020||Madurai||33 dead, 2,079 +ve in south TN; 637 cases in central dists||Madurai/Trichy: The 10 southern districts of the state reported 33 deaths on Saturday taking the toll to 510, with a death rate of 1.28%. Meanwhile, the total deaths in Madurai touched 202, making it the third district in the state – after Chennai (1,989) and Chengalpattu (222) – with a death rate of 2.10%, which is close to Chennai’s 2.12%. Meanwhile, the central region of the state recorded 637 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the tally to 9,922 in the eight districts on Saturday, which include 3,753 active cases. According to the state bulletin, eight Covid-19 deaths were recorded in the region. While Trichy district recorded six deaths at private hospitals, two patients of Pudukottai died at government medical college hospital between July 18 and July 24. Virudhunagar (52) on Saturday became the third district in the southern region to cross 50 deaths after Madurai and Ramanathapuram (55). The district however has a death rate of 0.93%, which is the lowest among the three. Tuticorin, despite a total of 5,291 cases that is the third highest in the region, has the lowest death rate of 0.53% with just 28 deaths. Tenkasi with 10 deaths has the lowest number of deaths in the region.The 33 deaths on Saturday includes nine each in Madurai and Virudhunagar, three each in Dindigul and Theni, two each in Kanyakumari, Ramanathapuram and Tirunelveli and one each in Sivagangai, Tenkasi and Tuticorin districts. An 18-year-old girl from Tuticorin suffering from Neuromyelitis Optica and under Immunosuppressants who had died on Thursday is the youngest Covid-19 death reported in the region on Saturday. A 50-year-old man from Virudhunagar with decompensated liver disease, oesophageal varices who was admitted to the Government Rajaji Hospital, Madurai, on Tuesday died on Friday. The other deaths in the region include three men aged 40, 45 and 48, who died in Virudhunagar and Kanyakumari districts.The 2,079 fresh Covid-19 positive cases registered in the region are the highest single day spike till date. It equals the same number of cases recorded on Thursday. The region has recorded more than 2,000 cases a day for the third consecutive day. The region now has a total of 39,667 cases including 24,859 people who were discharged and 14,298 active cases. Three districts recorded more than 300 cases on Saturday with Virudhunagar (376) continuing to record the highest in the region, followed by Tuticorin (317) and Madurai (301). Kanyakumari (269), Theni (235) and Tirunelveli (212) had recorded more than 200 cases. Tenkasi (1,607) has the lowest number of cases in the south, followed by Sivagangai (1,991).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/33-dead-2079-ve-in-south-tn-637-cases-in-central-dists/articleshow/77176411.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Madurai||Stress-filled life for teachers at virtual classes||Madurai: While the world is raring to go back to regular work, it is the teachers who seem to be yearning for it more as lockdown and online classes have taken a toll on their mental health. Everything from dress code to their pronunciation have been coming for scrutiny not to speak about managing the students or juggling work and home affairs. Says Anisha Christin G B, principal of a primary school in Chennai who is currently working from home in Tirunelveli, ``We are conducting classes in three shifts for the children which end by 1 pm. Thereafter, we have to prepare for the next day’s work. I love to walk about and be interactive with the students, but I miss that sitting at one place,’’ she said. They have 40-minute sessions with breaks in between, but holding the attention of small children continuously during online classes is a challenge. “We even conducted a talent show last week, which provided the much-needed respite. It was good to see the children doing their best to showcase their skills,’’ she said. G Prabavathy, teacher at a private school in Madurai, says they are forced to juggle their household chores and classes which is very stressful. “I finish cooking breakfast and lunch early in the morning like on normal school days, but my classes go on till 3 pm. My children start demanding that I feed them at 1 pm, it is tough and gives me a lot of mental stress,’’ she said. “We are instructed to be in sari during the classes and sometimes the administrators log on these classes and monitor us without our knowledge,” said T Thangam, a teacher from Sivaganga. “The other major problem is that parents sit by students and continue to find fault with us, even our pronunciations,” said K Subburaj, a teacher of a private school in Madurai. “This in turn leads to the heads of the institutions admonishing us and that adds to our troubles,’’ he said. Psychologist Dr Rani Chakkaravarthy said she has had about three teachers calling her asking her for stress management. “They tell me that they were the masters of their classes at school, but now in the virtual world, everybody from parents to principals are always in the class making it extra stressful.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/stress-filled-life-for-teachers-at-virtual-classes/articleshow/77176412.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Kochi||Save my village, writes Chellanam boy in moving letter to President||KOCHI “Before the honourable President of India, Ram Nath Kovind... Fear has forced me to write this letter. No one is there to protect my village of Chellanam. Since, I can remember, my parents used to leave our home, at least twice a year, to protect ourselves from the rough waves that lashed our village. This year too we tried to move to a relative’s house when the sea turned rough, but the pandemic has made that difficult now.” These words are written by a school boy from Chellanam Bazar area with the hope that his village will finally get some help. The villagers of Chellanam had knocked on almost all doors over the past several years, seeking respite from the sea that encroached their homes each year. Their only hope is Rashtrapati Bhavan. Apart from photo-ops by politicians and empty promises from bureaucrats, no real action to safeguard the villagers was ever executed, said villagers. And now, the coastal village is one of the worst-affected places amid the pandemic. Edgar Sebastian, who has just started attending online classes for Class X, wrote the above-mentioned letter. “Our community was discussing how we had contacted every office, from Union government to local panchayat in vain as there was no effective action. That is when somebody joked only the President remains to be contacted. So, we thought, why not write him a letter. I then prepared one in Malayalam, scanned it and sent it to him,” he said. The letter said that 400 houses in Chellanam were damaged this year when water entered their homes. “Six houses collapsed; appliances and my books were soaked in sea water and monsoon has only begun in Kerala. Am not sure we will be here when we get a response to the letter. I think India’s coastline is part of its border and I believe that the President is duty-bound to protect our coastline, which is why we seek your intervention in constructing a proper seawall and breakwaters so that our village would finally be safe,” he wrote in the letter. The boy also attached the images of destruction at Chellanam in his email to the President.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/save-my-village-writes-chellanam-boy-in-moving-letter-to-president/articleshow/77174184.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19 worries steer demand for used vehicles in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: While registration of new vehicles in the city is slowly picking up, the demand for pre-owned cars and two-wheelers is seeing an uptick. Online used-vehicle dealers say queries for smaller and cheaper cars have increased as many commuters want to avoid public transport due to coronavirus concerns. Gajendra Jangid, co-founder, CARS24, said: “The demand for used cars in Bengaluru has grown 81% since pre-Covid times.” According to CARS24, cars like Maruti Swift, Volkswagen Polo, Hyundai i10, Honda City and Hyundai i20 are most sought-after vehicles. “Around 45% of sold are in the price band of Rs 2 lakh to Rs 5 lakh,” he added. Bengaluru has seen a 50% rise in demand for used vehicles, followed by Delhi (35%), Hyderabad (10%) and Pune (5%), according to Niraj Singh, founder of pre-owned car platform Spinny. He said: “Most queries are from first-time buyers who earlier relied on public transport or shared cabs. Given the cash crunch, demand has swiftly shifted to used cars in the Rs 4 lakh-Rs 6 lakh segment. The maximum demand is for cars such as Honda Amaze, Hyundai i10 and Maruti Swift,” he said. Kengeri resident Anand T, who plans to purchase a used car, said: “I never thought of buying a car because of Metro connectivity and didn’t want to drive in traffic. I’d book an Ola or Uber from home and then take a Metro from Mysuru Road station to reach the CBD. But Metro is not operational and taking cabs or BMTC buses is risky because of the pandemic. Traffic is also less now. I cannot afford to buy a new car now so I am checking used car websites as well as second-hand dealers for a good deal on a small car.” Sandeep Aggarwal, founder, Droom, said: “The demand has grown by over 200%. Covid-19 has caused a massive shift in consumer mindset with public transport or ridesharing no longer considered safe. More people are turning to ownership many prefer used vehicles.” Umesh Hora, CEO, CarDekho Group (used-cars business), said: “While many cannot afford to buy new cars, they see two-wheelers and used cars as low-cost options. The demand for pre-owned cars in in Bengaluru is up by 15%.” “Bengaluru witnessed a 90% increase in demand for second-hand cars and 93% rise in interest for pre-owned two-wheelers in June as compared to May,” said Vineet Sehgal, CMO, Quikr. Most used-car websites offer end-to-end contactless service through online vehicle research, doorstep test drive and delivery, online documentation and digital payment, apart from offering warranty and service, hassle-free transfer of ownership and facilitating easy financing options. Many selling carsUmesh Hora said many people who had bought new cars are finding it difficult to pay EMIs due to financial distress. “Such customers sell in the used-car market. Also, many who preferred public transport in the pre-Covid era are slowly moving to personal mobility, selling their small cars for bigger ones that can be used by the family,” he said. However, Sehgal said: “The new normal of working from home has led to minimal usage of cars for a few consumers which could be one reason for selling them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-worries-drive-up-demand-for-used-vehicles/articleshow/77174413.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
July 26, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Deputy jailer colluded with eight inmates to supply drugs, phones in prison, say cops||GURUGRAM: The irony will not be lost on anyone at Bhondsi jail. Dharmabir Chautala, who till last week went around telling inmates that he was slated to become the next jail superintendent, will now be sharing a cell with some of them. On Saturday, the deputy jail superintendent, who was arrested for smuggling drugs and SIM cards to inmates, was remanded in judicial custody. Chautala, who made hefty money selling smartphones and SIM cards to inmates at Bhondsi, will not have a phone to himself. Like other prisoners, he can talk to family members only during the designated visiting hours. He may also have to work in the same manufacturing unit that he headed as the deputy jailer. Chautala was caught red-handed receiving a 250 gram packet of drugs and 11 SIM cards from a peddler in his quarters on Wednesday night. Sources said he had admitted before investigators that he would supply phones, drugs and SIM cards to inmates of Bhondsi jail against a price. On Saturday, a second round of checks yielded four more cellphones from the possession of prisoners. In the past two days, 16 phones have been recovered in total. Two separate FIRs have been registered at Bhondsi police station in this regard.The IMEI numbers of all the phones, which are used by law enforcement agencies to track a device, were found to have been erased. Sources said the SIM cards inserted in these phones had been procured with fake documents from some tribal areas of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. “The phones and SIM cards have been sent to the forensic lab for testing,” said an officer associated with the investigation of the case. He added that police were trying to find the details of numbers that had been dialled from these phones. Police have agreed that the easy access to phones inside the jail posed a challenge in prevention of crime. Many criminals operate their gangs from inside the prison — even murders are believed to have been planned via calls from there. Officers said Chautala was in touch with at least eight prisoners who would act as middlemen for supplying drugs and phones inside the jail. One of them was Goldy, who was arrested along with the deputy jailer on Wednesday. It was Goldy who would procure the phones, SIM cards and drugs and bring them to Chautala. Goldy was lodged in Bhondsi jail in connection with a murder in 2008 and came in contact with Chautala during his stay there. He came out of jail after being acquitted in the case and soon struck a deal with the deputy jailer for the supply of phones and drugs. Police said they were trying to find out if more officers of the jail are involved in the drug supply racket. “On Saturday, a few more mobile phones were recovered from inmates of Bhondsi jail. A further investigation is on to find out if more people are involved,” ACP (crime) Preet Pal Sangwan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/dy-jailer-colluded-with-8-inmates-to-supply-drugs-phones-in-prison-cops/articleshow/77176232.cms||Bagish Jha
July 26, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Relatives refuse to receive body of 70-year-old farmer allegedly tortured||TENKASI: Three days after the death of a 70-year-old farmer of Vaagaikulam near Kadayam, his relatives have refused to receive his body alleging he was tortured. Political parties and dalit organisations have joined them in demanding justice for the deceased Anaikkarai Muthu by arresting the forest department personnel who they claim are responsible for the death. Though chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had announced Rs 10 lakh compensation and government job for a relative on Saturday evening, they were yet to be pacified. The farmer who grew brinjal on his 2.5 acres land had allegedly electrified his fence with direct power supply to protect the crops from wild animals. Picked up for questioning by forest department personnel in Kadayam range late on July 22, he was rushed to a nearby primary health centre after he complained of chest pain shortly after midnight. He was referred to the Tenkasi government hospital but he died enroute around 1.30 am. This triggered protest and a couple of dalit outfits and Alangulam MLA Poongothai Aladi Aruna staged a protest along with the family of the man. His children also accused the forest personnel of torturing him. The protesters demanded Rs 50 lakh compensation, government job for the kin and murder charge against the forest personnel. Tenkasi district police registered a case under section 176(1A) of CrPC. Ambasamudram judicial magistrate J Karthikeyan began the judicial inquest and autopsy was performed by a team of doctors at the Tirunelveli MCH on Thursday. The entire process was videographed and the viscera report is expected in a couple of weeks. The magistrate conducted the inquest with the forest department personnel accused of torturing the farmer. Tenkasi SP G Suguna Singh told TOI that the magistrate report is expected in two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/relatives-refuse-to-receive-body-of-70-year-old-farmer-allegedly-tortured/articleshow/77176415.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Kozhikode||Cheaper ventilators in the testing phase||KOCHI: A consortium of three startups, one of them helmed by arthouse actor and producer Prakash Bare, has prototyped two cost-effective ventilator designs that are readying to enter validation and testing phase. The consortium, Indventr plans to manufacture the devices in India and make them available in price ranges below Rs 8,000 and Rs 75,000. "The ventilator designs are the result of long-distance collaboration by Kochi-based Sinergia Media Labs, with expertise in IoT, mobile and cloud software, Chennai-based Ionic3DP, which is into 3D printing and robotics and the artificial intelligence startup Aruvii, based in Singapore," says Bare, director, Sinergia and a film and theatre actor known for his roles in more than 20 films including Ivan Megharoopan and Oraalpokkam  A known technologist, Bare holds an MTech in Microelectronics from IIT-Kanpur and has experience in chip designing and acted as a coordinator for the project. Another key member was Prahlad Vadakkepat, associate professor at the National University of Singapore, who specializes in frugal innovations. To raise funds for the project, Indventr also launched a crowdfunding initiative in the website, Shareyourfortune.org. “While the low-priced version, Indventr-100 is an ambu bag-based respirator, based on MIT design, that offers multiple ventilation schemes under mandatory and spontaneous modes, Indventr-200 follows a pneumatic blower-based design and is feature rich,” says Sinergia Media Labs CEO Derrick Sebastian. “One key challenge we faced was that the teams were all working remotely because of the pandemic. While our software team was in Kochi, the mechanical team was in Chennai and one of the main contributors was in Singapore. There were also resource persons in the US and Bengaluru. But we could mount a virtual working environment with the help of technology,” says Sebastian. “Some of the technologies that we have developed while designing them are patentable,” said Vadakkeppatt. Bare says they took up the project as part of social responsibility. “The main reason behind hefty ICU bills are the pricey ventilators, which have been monopolized by a few companies in the west. Much of the cost is incurred from valves and sensors that come from China. These can be easily manufactured in India at a much lower cost,” says Bare. Once they get certification from ICMR and proper clinical trials are held, Indventr intends to move into production as an US-based pharma company and a national-level PSU have shown interest in the project. “But a worrying thing is that India doesn’t have an ecosystem to test these products apart from validation by agencies like ICMR. In the long run this is going to be a challenge,” Bare said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/cheaper-ventilators-in-the-testing-phase/articleshow/77178754.cms||Binu Karunakaran
July 26, 2020||Lucknow||‘Deepotsav’ to mark temple construction||AYODHYA: The temple town of Ayodhya and banks of Saryu will be illuminated with thousands of ‘diyas’ or earthen lamps amid round-the-clock chanting from Ramayana for three days to mark the beginning of the construction of the Ram temple on August 5, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi lays the foundation stone. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath who did a whirlwind tour of Ayodhya on Saturday to hammer out minutest details of ‘bhoomi pujan’ and the security blueprint, reiterated strict enforcement of Covid protocols and cleanliness while calling for a “deepotsav in the temple town to celebrate the historic day”. While offering prayers at Ramjanmabhoomi, the chief minister placed idols of Laxman, Bharat and Shatrughan on new ‘asans’ alongside Ram Lalla and told seers and district officials that “we have to follow pandemic protocols while ensuring the grandeur of the occasion. We have to make this auspicious hour reach every corner of the country and make Ayodhya the pride of India and the world. There will be ‘deepotsav’ at every house and temple on nights of August 3, 4 and 5.” Cleanliness should be the first condition and this is an opportunity for Ayodhya to set an example through self-discipline, he added. After meeting members of the temple trust and local administration, the chief minister held a meeting with seers at Karsewak Puram to finalise rituals for seamless conduct of ‘bhoomi pujan’. Talking to TOI, Triloki Nath Pandey, decree holder of Ram Janambhoomi said, “The chief minister said, the auspicious occasion has arrived after a struggle of five centuries. The nation is celebrating and we should cherish this moment by welcoming the PM.” He also offered prayers at Hanumangarhi temple in Ayodhya and inspected carved stones at the VHP workshop. Talking to TOI, BJP MLA from Ayodhya, Ved Prakash Gupta, said, “Diwali will be celebrated in Ayodhya for three days, culminating in the bhoomi pujan. The town will be decorated like a bride to mark this historic event. At least 11,000 diyas would be lit on the banks of Saryu and every house and temple will be illuminated.” Siya Kishori Saran, Mahant of Sat Guru Sadan said, “People must cooperate by keeping the town clean so that the world knows we are celebrating Diwali.” Mahant Suresh Das of Digambar Akhara also echoed similar sentiment and said, “The temple is going to be constructed after 500 years and every house must light diyas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/deepotsav-to-mark-temple-construction/articleshow/77176222.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
July 26, 2020||Madurai||Textile unit +ve cases touch 145 in Kovilpatti||Tuticorin: The number of employees of a private textile unit in Kovilpatti who tested positive has touched 145. Samples were collected from 1,056 employees so far. “There are no more samples awaiting results. The unit that has been closed for three days from Thursday to carry out disinfection measures till Saturday and will resume operations from Monday.” district collector Sandeep Nanduri said. The infections among the employees of the mill started two weeks ago after two engineers with a travel history tested positive. Six of their contacts tested positive and further expanding the test resulted in 13.7% of the employees testing positive. Tense moments prevailed in Kovilpatti on Saturday as vehicles carrying workers to the Sattur unit of the same textile unit were stopped by a couple of activists for nearly three hours. They accused the industry of taking employees from the temporarily closed unit to another unit run by the same parent company at Sattur in neighbouring Virudhunagar district. Tahsildar Manikandan and revenue officials then checked the vehicles one after the other at the Thottilovanpatti check-post for any violations before they were allowed to proceed. Nanduri said there was no violation as the employees working in both the units are different. “All those who tested positive are asymptomatic and are under isolation at home or in the Covid care centres,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/textile-unit-ve-cases-touch-145-in-kovilpatti/articleshow/77176416.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Vadodara||92 new cases, death toll rises to 74||Vadodara: New Covid-19 cases registered in the city and district made yet another peak with 92 persons testing positive since Friday evening. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) also declared two persons dead due to Covid-19 being the primary cause of death. The new cases were detected from 602 tests conducted since Friday evening. With the fresh cases, the total number of Covid-19 cases detected since the pandemic began reached 4,102. Also, 74 persons have been confirmed dead due to Covid-19 by VMC even as several others either died due to comorbidities and the death audit reports of some others are awaited. As many as 45 persons were discharged from different hospitals or home quarantine in the city. With these, the total number of discharged patients reached 3,233. This leaves 795 patients in different hospitals of the city. Those admitted in hospitals include 41 on BIPAP machines or ventilators and 139 on oxygen support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/92-new-cases-death-toll-rises-to-74/articleshow/77173401.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Chickpet traders fume as only some shops allowed to reopen||BENGALURU: A large section of traders with establishments in and around Chickpet wholesale market is miffed with the BBMP for not issuing an official order allowing the entire area to reopen for business despite the lockdown having been lifted. Only some shops have been given permission to resume operations, which insiders claim is a “political game.” Arjun Jain, dealer of industrial components, arrived at his shop on SP Road post lockdown, after the authorities verbally stated businesses in the city can function. “But much to my shock, most roads in the market were closed and police prevented us from opening our shops demanding a formal BBMP order. It was very disappointing as most traders were hoping to resume operations since we have been under lock and key since June 25,” lamented Jain, joint secretary of Bengaluru Electronics Dealers Association of SP Road, which has over 1,200 active members. The Chickpet market stretching from Town Hall to Mysore Bank Circle with hundreds of shops operating from bylanes is the oldest and the largest wholesale market in Bengaluru. The traders supply a variety of goods to other parts of Karnataka and states like Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Maharashtra. According to industry sources, the market has a daily turnover of Rs 100 crore. But a series of lockdowns has pushed most traders into heavy losses. After the nationwide lockdown, which kept traders away from business till May 3, BBMP issued an order to close the market on June 24 citing surge in Covid cases and possibility of virus spread in the commercial hub. “It is unfortunate that the authorities have left us in the lurch without spelling out clear directions. Attempts by most of our union members to meet top BBMP officials to discuss the reopening have been futile. Initially, they said we could open shops on Friday, but now we hear it’s been stretched to Monday,” rued Anil Talreja, a representative of Karnataka Hardware and Allied Merchants Association, who runs an establishment on SJP Road. Much to the anger of many traders, shops on Avenue Road, BVK Iyengar Road and Chickpet Main Road were thrown open for business on Wednesday afternoon when the Bengaluru lockdown was lifted. “These shops fall under the Bengaluru Central constituency and their proprietors managed to get them open with the help of MP PC Mohan. But the rest of the market, which mainly falls under Bengaluru South, is shut,” said a trader on condition of anonymity. With senior BBMP officials didn’t want to comment on the matter, Palike sources on the field claimed talks on an alternative scheme of opening a set of shops on one day and another on the next day have been held. They said an official order from the BBMP commissioner is expected on Monday, adding that maintaining social distancing in the area is a major problem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/chickpet-traders-fume-as-only-some-shops-allowed-to-reopen/articleshow/77174544.cms||Petlee Peter
July 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Cheaper ventilators in the testing phase||KOCHI: A consortium of three startups, one of them helmed by arthouse actor and producer Prakash Bare, has prototyped two cost-effective ventilator designs that are readying to enter validation and testing phase. The consortium, Indventr plans to manufacture the devices in India and make them available in price ranges below Rs 8,000 and Rs 75,000. "The ventilator designs are the result of long-distance collaboration by Kochi-based Sinergia Media Labs, with expertise in IoT, mobile and cloud software, Chennai-based Ionic3DP, which is into 3D printing and robotics and the artificial intelligence startup Aruvii, based in Singapore," says Bare, director, Sinergia and a film and theatre actor known for his roles in more than 20 films including Ivan Megharoopan and Oraalpokkam  A known technologist, Bare holds an MTech in Microelectronics from IIT-Kanpur and has experience in chip designing and acted as a coordinator for the project. Another key member was Prahlad Vadakkepat, associate professor at the National University of Singapore, who specializes in frugal innovations. To raise funds for the project, Indventr also launched a crowdfunding initiative in the website, Shareyourfortune.org. “While the low-priced version, Indventr-100 is an ambu bag-based respirator, based on MIT design, that offers multiple ventilation schemes under mandatory and spontaneous modes, Indventr-200 follows a pneumatic blower-based design and is feature rich,” says Sinergia Media Labs CEO Derrick Sebastian. “One key challenge we faced was that the teams were all working remotely because of the pandemic. While our software team was in Kochi, the mechanical team was in Chennai and one of the main contributors was in Singapore. There were also resource persons in the US and Bengaluru. But we could mount a virtual working environment with the help of technology,” says Sebastian. “Some of the technologies that we have developed while designing them are patentable,” said Vadakkeppatt. Bare says they took up the project as part of social responsibility. “The main reason behind hefty ICU bills are the pricey ventilators, which have been monopolized by a few companies in the west. Much of the cost is incurred from valves and sensors that come from China. These can be easily manufactured in India at a much lower cost,” says Bare. Once they get certification from ICMR and proper clinical trials are held, Indventr intends to move into production as an US-based pharma company and a national-level PSU have shown interest in the project. “But a worrying thing is that India doesn’t have an ecosystem to test these products apart from validation by agencies like ICMR. In the long run this is going to be a challenge,” Bare said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cheaper-ventilators-in-the-testing-phase/articleshow/77178756.cms||Binu Karunakaran
July 26, 2020||Kolkata||Ambulance demands Rs 9k for 6km ride||Kolkata: An ambulance allegedly demanded Rs 9,000 for ferrying two Covid-positive children from the Institute of Child Health (ICH) in Park Circus to Medical College and Hospital (MCH) on College Street—barely 6km apart—early on Saturday. The patients were refused after their families failed to pay the exorbitant sum. Later, they hired another ambulance, that too, for Rs 4,500, with help from an ICH doctor, who paid half the amount. Aged 11 years and nine months, the two kids had tested positive and their parents were advised to shift them to MCH. The two sets of parents sought help from the ICH authorities, who arranged for an ambulance around 1am. “The parents decided to share the vehicle but they were shocked when they heard the charge. The ambulance drove away as the driver realized the parents would not be able to pay,” said ICH director Apurba Ghosh. The hospital arranged for another ambulance, which demanded Rs 4,500. This time, a doctor contributed Rs 2,000 when one of the parents said they didn’t have that much money. “We have an arrangement with two private ambulances who carry patients when necessary. But they have refused to operate ever since the pandemic started. Now, patients must depend on private ambulances, which have been charging hefty amounts which is unfair. The state should stop this,” said Ghosh. The children were finally taken to MCH around 2am. Another family alleged they were charged Rs 9,200 for ferrying their Covid patient from a private hospital in Salt Lake to MCH on Saturday. The ambulance allegedly charged Rs 8,000 for the trip and Rs 1,200 for PPE. The family claimed they had tried calling on the state helpline but to no avail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ambulance-demands-rs-9k-for-6km-ride/articleshow/77175175.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Apartment turns spare rooms into CCCs for those with mild illness||BENGALURU: An apartment complex in Akshaynagar (Bommanahalli zone) has set up two Covid Care Centres on its premises to house patients with mild symptoms and residents awaiting test reports. With a spurt in coronavirus cases and people panicking over shortage of hospital beds, such facilities will prove beneficial, say residents of DLF Westend Heights. Established as per RWA guidelines and government protocol, the centres are equipped with oxygen cylinders, PPE kits and other emergency equipment. They have six beds, which have been donated by residents, and patients can stay there free of cost. The bed capacity is likely to be ramped up to 12. Kartikeya Khanna, secretary of the apartment’s executive committee, said they’ve used spare rooms to set up the CCCs, which are almost like mini hospitals. A health committee comprising 13-14 members and in-house doctors will tend to patients on a rotational basis, he said. Khanna said the doctors will assess if a patient can stay in the CCC. “Those who avail the facility must not have any co-morbidity and will be closely monitored by the doctors. They will be allocated medical files as is done in hospitals,” added Khanna. The CCCs have been registered on the BBMP website. Dr Rashmi Vasanth, head of the health committee, had told TOI earlier that they had organised a conference of 15 in-house doctors to discuss inputs on hospitalisation procedures and ways to handle the situation if a resident tests positive. Khanna said a BBMP official had visited the complex and was impressed with the facility. They expect a visit from Captain Manivannan (zonal in-charge of Bommanahalli) as well. “Our support staff and members have worked day and night to set up the CCCs. We hope the facility will serve as an example for other RWAs,” he added. The association plans to procure 20 pulse oximeters, which can be used by residents, domestic helps and support staff across the 19 towers of the complex. The cost of the CCCs will be borne by the entire community. “It will be minimal,” said Khanna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/apartment-turns-spare-rooms-into-cccs-for-those-with-mild-illness/articleshow/77174566.cms||Farheen Hussain
July 26, 2020||Kochi||Cheaper ventilators in the testing phase||KOCHI: A consortium of three startups, one of them helmed by arthouse actor and producer Prakash Bare, has prototyped two cost-effective ventilator designs that are readying to enter validation and testing phase. The consortium, Indventr plans to manufacture the devices in India and make them available in price ranges below Rs 8,000 and Rs 75,000. "The ventilator designs are the result of long-distance collaboration by Kochi-based Sinergia Media Labs, with expertise in IoT, mobile and cloud software, Chennai-based Ionic3DP, which is into 3D printing and robotics and the artificial intelligence startup Aruvii, based in Singapore," says Bare, director, Sinergia and a film and theatre actor known for his roles in more than 20 films including Ivan Megharoopan and Oraalpokkam  A known technologist, Bare holds an MTech in Microelectronics from IIT-Kanpur and has experience in chip designing and acted as a coordinator for the project. Another key member was Prahlad Vadakkepat, associate professor at the National University of Singapore, who specializes in frugal innovations. To raise funds for the project, Indventr also launched a crowdfunding initiative in the website, Shareyourfortune.org. “While the low-priced version, Indventr-100 is an ambu bag-based respirator, based on MIT design, that offers multiple ventilation schemes under mandatory and spontaneous modes, Indventr-200 follows a pneumatic blower-based design and is feature rich,” says Sinergia Media Labs CEO Derrick Sebastian. “One key challenge we faced was that the teams were all working remotely because of the pandemic. While our software team was in Kochi, the mechanical team was in Chennai and one of the main contributors was in Singapore. There were also resource persons in the US and Bengaluru. But we could mount a virtual working environment with the help of technology,” says Sebastian. “Some of the technologies that we have developed while designing them are patentable,” said Vadakkeppatt. Bare says they took up the project as part of social responsibility. “The main reason behind hefty ICU bills are the pricey ventilators, which have been monopolized by a few companies in the west. Much of the cost is incurred from valves and sensors that come from China. These can be easily manufactured in India at a much lower cost,” says Bare. Once they get certification from ICMR and proper clinical trials are held, Indventr intends to move into production as an US-based pharma company and a national-level PSU have shown interest in the project. “But a worrying thing is that India doesn’t have an ecosystem to test these products apart from validation by agencies like ICMR. In the long run this is going to be a challenge,” Bare said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cheaper-ventilators-in-the-testing-phase/articleshow/77174213.cms||Binu Karunakaran
July 26, 2020||Madurai||Three arrested for faking as commercial tax officials in Madurai||MADURAI: The Madurai district police have arrested three people, who in the guise of commercial tax officials, tried to extort money from a trader near Karuppayurani on the outskirts of the city. The accused have been identified as P Muthu, 60, of Virattipathu, S Ashokan, 62, of Anaiyur and K Santhanam, 58, of Melathoppu in Sellur. The trio approached T Kesavaraj, 55, a ghee dealer in Yagappa Nagar, on Friday. They introduced themselves as officials of various ranks in the commercial taxes department and wanted to check the firm’s accounts. Following this, the accused tried to extort money claiming that he was not maintaining accounts in the prescribed format. Kesavaraj, who was suspicious of their activities, insisted them to show their identity cards. However, the accused allegedly grew nervous, stepped back and did not show their IDs. Kesavaraj later followed the three without their knowledge and managed to catch them with the help of other traders. They were arrested by a team from the Karuppayurani police station and booked under sections 170 (pretends to be a public servant) and 417 (punishment for cheating) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/three-arrested-for-faking-as-commercial-taxes-officials/articleshow/77176417.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Madurai||2 fishermen drown in two days||Kanyakumari: The death of two fishermen at the entrance of the Thengapattanam fishing harbor in the last few days has triggered protest by the fishermen on Saturday urging the government to desilt the approach to the harbour and to reconstruct breakwater at the entrance to ensure that waves are not formed. On Thursday evening, fisherman S Antony, 68, of Mulloorthurai village and his son were returning to the harbour at around 5.30 pm after a day-long fishing when their catamaran was tossed by the waves in the Arabian Sea at the entrance of the harbour that were two to five meters high. Fishermen launched a search for the missing but he could not be traced. Antony’s son, however, reached safety. Meanwhile, on Friday, a fibre boat with five fishermen was tossed by the waves. “Fishermen Shibu, Justin, George, Ouseph and Johnpaul were injured and the boat was damaged. Shibu, 25, was injured and his friends tried to hold him, but in vain,” said P Dickson of Meenavar Orunginaipu Sangam (MOS).  His friends watched him drown from the breakwater on either side of the harbour’s entrance. “The men were tired after a long day in the rough sea and could not swim back to safety under such conditions,” MOS general secretary Anto Lenin said. Search for the bodies continued on Saturday as well. Meanwhile, on Saturday, various fishermen bodies including South Asian Fishermen Fraternity (SAFF) staged a protest demanding the desilting of the harbour for a stretch of nearly 500 meters and for a depth of three meters as the sand deposits are reason for the formation of waves. SAFF general secretary Churchil said that the wrong design of the breakwater is the reason for sand being deposited at the entrance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/2-fishermen-drown-in-two-days/articleshow/77176418.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Dehradun||Three dead as car falls into Kosi in Nainital||Nainital: Two persons of a family and their driver died late on Friday night as the car they were travelling in fell into Kosi river in Nainital. According to the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) team, which reached the spot around midnight, the accident took place on the Bhowali-Bageshwar highway at around 10:30 pm when the car skidded off the road and fell at least 150-metre-deep into Kosi near Nainital’s Suyalbari area. While two of the bodies were recovered during the night, the third one was fished out in the morning. The three victims, all residents of Haldwani, were travelling to Kanda in Bageshwar. They have been identified as Dheeraj Singh (30), Prakash Singh (62), and driver Mohan Singh (58). The SDRF officials said that the families of the deceased were informed and the bodies were sent for postmortem. “The SDRF got the information that a car had fallen into the river. A team from the Khairna base rushed to the spot. When the team reached the spot, it saw the vehicle was in the river and the bodies of Dheeraj and Mohan were found in the vehicle during the night time. The third victim could not be located immediately. The search operation resumed on Saturday morning when the body of Prakash Singh was found around 20 metres away from the car. The body was stuck between the rocks,” said an official statement from the SDRF. According to local officials who were present on the spot, the three deceased had gone to attend a funeral in Ranibagh and were on their way back to Haldwani when the accident took place. “Some other family members were following the car (in which the victims were on-board) in another vehicle. They informed the police and the SDRF about the accident after which the rescue operation began,” the SDRF official said. The official added that the bodies were carried from the spot to Nainital for postmortem examination. Following the examination, the bodies will be handed over to the respective families soon. “The postmortem is underway and the bodies will be handed over to the families as soon as the official formalities are complete,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/three-dead-as-car-falls-into-kosi-in-nainital/articleshow/77172995.cms||Prashant Jha
July 26, 2020||Nagpur||OF unions, govt talks over strike on July 28||Nagpur: Ordnance factory unions and government have finally decided to negotiate a way out of strike threat by the former over move to corporatize the factories. The three recognized unions will hold a meeting on July 28 with secretary (defence production). The unions willmeet among themselves on Sunday to decide their stance for the meeting and then again on July 28 after meeting with the secretary to decide future course of action. The workers’ representatives have been given a choice to attend the meeting through video conferencing or come personally at the ministry’s office in south block, Delhi. Mukesh Singh, general secretary of Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh (BPMS), said the unions had earlier refused to take part in the proceedings of the high level official committee (HLOC) formed to work out corporatization of the ordnance factory board (OFB). This was because the unions have already rejected the idea of corporatization completely. “We are ready to discuss any topic other than corporatization. On these grounds, we have agreed to meet the secretary (defence production),” said Singh. Officials of the Ordnance Factory Board will also be present in the meet. Singh said his union will be asking the government to give the factories five years to revamp their functioning. The government has already invited proposals for appointing a consultant for corporatization process. Other unions in the factory are All India Defence Workers Federation (AIDWF) and Indian National Defence Workers’ Federation (INDEF).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/of-unions-govt-talks-over-strike-on-july-28/articleshow/77170066.cms||Shishir Arya
July 26, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Farmer suicides among topics taken off Standard XII syllabus||Workers’ movement, farmer suicides and unemployment were some topics removed from sociology syllabus of class XII, while in others, most activity-based learning topics have to be done at home or marked self-study. These changes in textbooks of the state board were declared by State Council of Education Research and Training, that had announced a 25% cut in syllabus for students of class I-XII. The changes were uploaded on www.maa.ac.in on Saturday and were only for 2020-21 as schools are shut due to Covid-19 and teachers will get less time to teach once they reopen. Students will have to do only 60% practicals too. The announcement was made by school education minister Varsha Gaikwad on twitter. SCERT director Dinkar Patil said keeping fundamentals of the syllabus intact, 25% has been cut from 22 subjects in classes I-VII, 20 subjects in classes IX-X and 59 in classes XI and XII. Time-consuming, higher difficulty level, self-learning, gives more information and for extra reading are reasons given. In many subjects, the ‘Do You Know’ and other boxes have been marked for self-study. Prachi Sathe, former chief coordinator of textbooks committee, that was responsible for the books, called the process unscientific. “They have not mentioned the reason for deletion in many topics. In other cases, they have said, ‘This topic is time-consuming and the difficulty level is a bit high” and given it for self-learning. If educationists tell students the difficulty level is high, and then tell them to learn it, what will be the result? In English, they have omitted a lesson and taken writing skills but the writing skill is based on the lesson. The entire thing should have been taken out. English is more than grammar,” said Sathe, adding that textbooks were prepared with a spiral conceptual mapping and by breaking the chain, students will find it hard to cope with in successive classes. Questions were raised on the 25% reduction claim too. A subject expert said, “In some subjects, they deleted entire chapters, while in others, they hardly culled 7-8 pages from a 112-page book. How is this uniform 25%? The reduction was done by few members and many of the study group were kept in the dark. They should have asked us for suggestions on email.” Varsha Sarode, a senior member of the subject committees for history, political science, civics and sociology, said taking out an entire chapter was not possible in social studies subjects as one chapter is generally a build-up on the previous chapter. “Hence, we have taken out only boxes, or few sub-topics from books, so that the essence of the books remains. Even these are not exempted but students should self-study them,” said Sarode. SCERT officials said the revision was done by Balbharati. The revision committee, said officials at Balbharati, consisted of subject committee chairman, subject committee members and academic officer. But the study group was not involved. “Complete autonomy was given to the committee. I will look at claims made,” a senior Balbharati official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/farmer-suicides-among-topics-taken-off-std-xii-syllabus/articleshow/77175252.cms||Ardhra Nair
July 26, 2020||Kolkata||Cops stop migrants’ bus but help them with food for the day||Kolkata: A bus carrying 29 migrant workers from Goa to their village in South 24 Parganas was stopped by the Baguiati traffic guard on VIP Road early on Saturday, as lockdown had already started by then. But the good Samaritan cops did not leave the helpless passengers to fend for themselves. Instead, they arranged for their breakfast, lunch and dinner before allowing the bus to restart its journey after the lockdown ended at 10pm. The workers said they had started from Goa five days ago and had no clue about the lockdown here. Realizing it was a genuine problem, police decided to take care of them. “We had no money with us. We are thankful to the cops,” said Sanjay Singh, one of the labourers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-stop-migrants-bus-but-help-them-with-food-for-the-day/articleshow/77175191.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Martyr’s kin get promised Rs 29 lakh grant||HYDERABAD: Hours after the Telangana government handed over 711 square yard plot to the family of Col Santosh Babu apart from appointing his widow, Santoshi, as deputy collector, the state has released Rs 29 lakh to the family of Mohd Feroz Khan, who had died fighting Pakistani troops seven years ago. The general administration department (GAD) on July 23 issued a GO releasing the enhanced grant to Nasreen Khan, the widow of Mohd Feroz Khan. The government has asked the Hyderabad collector to draw and disburse the amount. Lance Naik Feroz Khan of Madras Regiment, who lived in Salaheen Colony of Nawab Saheb Kunta in Old City, was killed in Pakistan's shelling across the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch district of Jammu & Kashmir on October 15, 2013. The then united Andhra Pradesh government had given Rs 5 lakh. After formation of Telangana, the ruling TRS government gave his family 200 sq yard residential plot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/martyrs-kin-get-promised-rs-29-lakh-grant/articleshow/77175187.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Two months after Cyclone Amphan, agricultural land under salt water||KOLKATA: Government agencies and NGOs have, to a large extent, succeeded in their mission to restore normalcy in the Sunderbans after Cyclone Amphan wreaked havoc on the islands. When vast swathes of farmlands in the Sunderbans were inundated by sea water that breached the embankments during Amphan two months ago, residents were faced with two problems — shortage of drinking water and agricultural crisis. For government agencies and NGOs that embarked on the ‘restoration mission’, water needed to be dried out of ponds before fresh rainwater could be harvested. Also, salt-resistant seeds needed to be distributed among farmers. Only a couple of tubewells could draw fresh water and everyone flocked to them. “In some villages, the queues to draw drinking water from the few remaining wells stretched beyond 1km,” said a forester. “Aila’s impact was spread across Sunderbans, but Amphan’s worst devastation was limited to its trail in Samshernagar, Hingalgunge, Sandeshkhali in North 24 Parganas and Namkhana, Kultoli and Sagar in South,” said Sourav Mukherjee of Kolkata Society for Cultural Heritage (KSCH), which did extensive work for re-sustaining Sunderbans post Amphan. “We were running out of time, because monsoon is very important for reviving the freshwater sources. In Kultoli, we kept de-watering the tanks so that they got filled up with rainwater. If monsoon recedes before de-watering, any scope of washing Sunderbans off the salinity will be a far-fetched idea. The people of Sunderbans could starve and the biodiversity will be under tremendous stress,” said Raja Chatterjee of the Junglees. “Fortunately, with the help of villagers, we could restore 3,857 ponds, which are getting filled up fast with rainwater,” said Rangeet Mitra, a livelihood expert with KSCH. It sourced salt-resistant rice seeds from Bidhan Chandra Krishi Viswavidyalay, Ramakrishna Mission and a few traders in Burrabazar. “We eventually managed to distribute five tonnes of seeds among 35,800 farmers,” said Mukherjee, who was happy to connect the farmers with Sufal Bangla agri-marketing department outlets for selling their produce. The NGOs and government agencies also found that the first line of defence in Sundarbans — the mangrove forests — was completely eroded. “The most flexible and highly adaptable trees will bend but never break in the face of the fiercest of cyclones. But human activities have eroded its defences to allow cyclones to play havoc,” said a senior South 24 Parganas district official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-months-after-amphan-agri-land-under-salt-water/articleshow/77175174.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
July 26, 2020||Lucknow||Kargil’s ‘unsung’ hero who evacuated hundreds of bravehearts while fighting||LUCKNOW: During the summer of 1999 (May-July), when Indian Army soldiers were facing enemy bullets while securing borders on the frontline in the Kargil war, some unsung heroes were also risking their lives by not only engaging with the enemy but also evacuating the injured soldiers and bodies of the bravehearts martyred in the line of duty so that they could be laid to rest with full honours. One such hero from Lucknow is Col GPS Kaushik who led several successful operations resulting in the evacuation of more than 1,500 soldiers—both injured and martyred. Col Kaushik commanded a helicopter unit when Kargil war broke out. While doing aerial recce atop Kargil ridges, it was revealed that Pakistani infiltrators were lodged on almost all the ridge lines on remote Kargil-Drass-Batalik sectors. “We had to locate exact enemy positions, destroy them directing artillery fire, and rescue our injured soldiers as fast as possible. On May 9, when the Pakistani Army began heavy shelling, we began deployment and redeployment of troops, dropping them right opposite to the enemy lines, destroy their positions, aerial missions were carried throughout the day,” he said. “The evacuation of the casualties was the most challenging task for us. Injured soldiers along with martyrs were carried to field hospitals. We did this with fearless disregard to enemy small arms and artillery fire, landing and taking off from makeshift helipads,” he added. “On June 16, I had landed at Drass to give certain codes and radio frequencies to artillery command post. The post was directly under observation from an enemy position. No sooner had the helicopter landed than it was engaged with heavy bombardment. It carried on for 45 minutes, with shells bursting 1 metre from our bunker. We almost thought that we would not survive. Fortunately, in a small break during the shelling, we dashed to the helicopter, restarted it and were able to take off,” he said. Kaushik, who retired in 2011, said, “I am very much eager to kiss the sky again. I only know how to fly.” His brother, Squadron Leader SPS Kaushik also served in the Kargil war where his task was to augment special forces and paratroopers. The Army Aviation Corps, formed in 1986, was awarded two Vir Chakras, one Yudh Seva Medal, three Sena Medals (gallantry) and one Sena Medal (distinguished) for its exceptional role in the war. Read this story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kargils-unsung-hero-who-evacuated-hundreds-of-bravehearts-while-fighting/articleshow/77176246.cms||Aditi Singh
July 26, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Two held with Rs 2.5 crore Yaba drugs||KOLKATA: The Special task force of Kolkata Police has arrested two Murshidabad residents Farukh Sk (29) and Ismail SK (40) and recovered around 5.5 kg of Yaba drugs or amphetamines, worth Rs 2.5 crore. The raid, said DC (STF) Aparajita Rai, took place in West Port area on Friday. The drugs were planned to be sent to Bangladesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-held-with-rs-2-5cr-yaba-drugs/articleshow/77175198.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Madurai||Commerce courses most sought after in Madurai||Madurai: As arts and science colleges in Madurai are getting flooded with applications for UG courses, commerce has become the most sought after among the applicants. “Despite making our application process completely online, so far we have received 25,000 applications which is more than what we received in the whole of last year. The most demand in our college was for commerce, followed by computer science, then science courses and English Literature,” said Dr D Pandiaraja, principal, Thiagarajar College of Arts and Science. He also said that there was good demand for two new courses BCom (Business process services) and BSc Computer Science (Cognitive systems), after tying up with Tata Consultancy Services (TCS). “There is tough competition for BCom courses as commerce group students have done well in the board exams compared to science group. I have scored only average marks so I’m anxious about getting a seat in a top college. I have applied to several colleges for many commerce courses in each,” said Kavitha N, a resident of Anna Nagar. Principal of The American College, Davamani M Christober said that there has been tough competition for commerce courses, followed by BA English and other BSc courses. “We also saw good demand for microbiology and food science. Perhaps considering the Covid-19 pandemic, there is more demand for Mmcrobiology course,” he said. Among women’s colleges, the Lady Doak College has received 10,000 applications online in one week. “The number of applications is comparatively less. Earlier, many students were applying for various courses even if they were not eligible. This time, we developed a system by which students can only apply for courses they are eligible for,” said Christianna Singh, principal, Lady Doak College. The principal added that the college started merit-based counselling process only on Friday. “BA English is on high demand,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/commerce-courses-most-sought-after-in-madurai/articleshow/77176420.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
July 26, 2020||Gurgaon||Delhi-Gurugram: Plan for three RRTS stations back on drawing board||GURUGRAM: After losing three crucial months due to the lockdown, work on the Delhi-Gurugram-SNB Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) corridor is finally catching pace. The pre-construction phase of the project has already begun at multiple locations in the city to finalise the detailed structural design so that no time is lost in beginning the construction of the RRTS post the project sanction, said the National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC). NCRTC, the nodal agency implementing RRTS, has started a detailed designing of three RRTS stations of the Delhi-Gurugram-SNB RRTS corridor. Work on multiple preliminary stages of the RRTS such as project office setup, road widening, geo-technical investigation, shifting of utilities among others have already begun in areas such as Udyog Vihar, Atul Kataria Chowk, IFFCO Chowk, Dharuhera, among others. To save time, NCRTC is focusing on completing most of the pre-construction activities for the corridor so that the civil construction of the corridor can start immediately. It has appointed L&T Infra as the Detailed Design Consultant (DDC) for civil, architectural, and other design-related works for an elevated viaduct between IDPL complex Ramp to Rajiv Chowk Ramp and the three elevated stations in the city — Udyog Vihar, Sector 17, Rajiv Chowk. Sudhir Kumar Sharma, chief PRO of NCRTC, said, “We did lose around three months due to the lockdown. In May, once lockdown was eased, we began the work but now the project is catching momentum. Just like the Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut corridor, we are expediting pre-construction work on Delhi-Gurugram-SNB segment. Once this phase is completed, there’ll be a proof-check of the design. We are also working out supervision and quality-check mechanisms." With simultaneous development of the Dwarka expressway, the RRTS will not only ease traffic woes in the city but will also bring down accidents, experts feel. Prakhar Sahay, former joint secretary of the Dwarka expressway welfare association, said, “RRTS is a very important for the city. At two important intersections of the Dwarka expressway, RRTS is connected. One is at the beginning of Package 1 and other at the end of Package 4 at cloverleaf. While the Centre is working hard to provide good connectivity, the same enthusiasm lacks in state governments when it comes to Metro.” The 107-km long Delhi-Gurugram-SNB corridor will be elevated for about 72km (11 stations), the remaining 35km (five stations) will be underground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/plan-for-3-rrts-stns-back-on-drawing-board/articleshow/77176241.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
July 26, 2020||Goa||Govt removes minor minerals’ ops from ambit of TCP Act||Panaji: The Goa government has decided to restart the process of accepting applications for conducting minor mineral activities in the state. It will also introduce a legislation to exclude the role of the town and country planning (TCP) department from activities pertaining to minor minerals. The issue of simplifying the process of granting permission for operations involving laterite, sand, murrum and other minor minerals was discussed at a meeting chaired by chief minister Pramod Sawant on Saturday. “Minor minerals have been removed from the ambit of TCP Act,” Sawant said in a tweet after the meeting. Henceforth, no NOC from the TCP department will be required. The chief minister said streamlining the procedure will help curb illegal extraction/transportation of such minerals and added that stakeholders should apply to the directorate of mines and geology. Several applications have been pending approval over the past few years before the DMG, spurring illegal operations. The government will begin by processing new applications for laterite and basalt quarrying activities. A senior official said the state now expects to draw at least Rs 1 crore as revenue. Regarding sand mining, the government is in favour of allowing traditional sand extraction. This will however, be all decided after the NGT passes its order or the NIO releases its study report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-removes-minor-minerals-ops-from-ambit-of-tcp-act/articleshow/77176264.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Madurai||Career counselling yet to find many takers||Madurai: Even as uncertainty during the pandemic has kept students and parents on their toes, only a few are seeking professional guidance for shaping their careers. This, career counsellors say, is not because of lack of awareness about counselling but a hesitation to seek professional help for choosing careers. “More than the time one spends in schools, more years of life are spent in the career one chooses. We are increasingly finding many who are dissatisfied and unhappy in their jobs. They don’t realise that it can affect their other aspects of life like family, relationships and personal health,” said A Arthi, a counsellor at Maansi counselling centre. Counsellors feel that Covid-19 had limited the choice of colleges for students who completed Class XII and hence proper career guidance is required for them to make informed decisions “Enquiries have slowed down, but we are expecting things to pick up. All career counsellors use psychometric tests as the basis for a student’s career guidance. This test has elements of aptitude, interest and personality tests. So, based on these parameters, we come up with a suitable list of career options that may be suitable for the student. Apart from these, by considering the socio-economic background of students, career options could be more refined,” said Ashish Bhati, founder, Allegiance Educare Private Limited, which has career counselling centres across India, including in Madurai. Right now, most counselling centres are reaching out via phone and online means. The counsellors further said that more than affordability and access to facilities, many families, especially in tier 2 and tier 3 cities, are often not very receptive towards counselling. Most counselling centres charged only nominal fees of Rs 1,000-2,000 a session and have suitable packages as well. “We are here to merely guide students to make informed decisions and provide a third person perspective” added Arthi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/career-counselling-yet-to-find-many-takers/articleshow/77176422.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
July 26, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: MUHS defers final year MBBS UG exams||Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) has decided to defer final year undergraduate MBBS summer 2020 exams till further orders. The varsity had earlier deferred UG exams of other streams. MUHS controller of exams Ajit Pathak told medical colleges about the exams that were scheduled from August 4. University officials said the exams were cancelled given Covid-19. Lockdowns are being reimposed in many districts. State medical education minister Amit Deshmukh had directed the varsity to defer UG exams. MUHS sources said 641 students were to appear for the exams. Had they appeared and passed, they would have taken up internship in government and civic hospitals in the state, which would have increased doctors treating Covid-19 patients. The university decided to conduct postgraduate medical exams from August 17, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/muhs-defers-final-year-mbbs-ug-exams/articleshow/77175245.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
July 26, 2020||Lucknow||Eyes on the sky, this ‘Kargil girl’ scripted history in 1999 war zone||LUCKNOW: ‘Keep your feet on the ground, your eyes on the sky’ was the quote that Flight Lieutenant Gunjan Saxena, India’s first female Air Force pilot to enter into Kargil war zone in 1999, swore by. Born in an Army family in UP, she had only one dream while growing up –to spread her wings and fly. Her father is from Badaun and mother from Etawah. As a child, Gunjan moved from one place to another as per the posting of her father who, after retirement, settled in Lucknow where she prepared for services and was commissioned in the Indian Air Force in 1996. As India celebrates the victory in Kargil war on July 26, TOI spoke to Gunjan’s father, Lt Col AK Saxena, who has temporarily moved with his wife to Varanasi where Gunjan is currently living with her husband, a serving army officer, and daughter. While her story has been inspiring to many young women, it will soon be available for the world as a film which will be released on OTT platform. Gunjan was commissioned to the Indian Air Force at a time when not many women joined the clan. “In May 1999, she informed us that she is being deployed in Udhampur and will not be able to keep in touch for some time. We later realised that Gunjan is at the forefront. We never felt perturbed as she was doing her duty,” recalls Lt Col Saxena. While completing her graduation from Hansraj College in Delhi, Gunjan joined the National Cadet Corps and Delhi Flying Club at Safdurjang. During her training, she performed recce and sorties for Drass (Jammu & Kashmir) and knew the ins and outs of the region. Gunjan was 24 when was deployed for operations during Kargil War. Along with her co-pilot, Flight Lt Srividya Rajan, she operated the Cheetah helicopter at heights close to 18,000ft to carry troops and material to frontlines and evacuate soldiers. Landing on makeshift helipads, Saxena deftly manoeuvred the helicopter in difficult weather and amidst fire, but perfectly completed 10 sorties and became part of a successful operation. “During the operation, Gunjan narrowly escaped a missile attack. At the time of war, my son and her elder brother, Lt Col Anshuman Saxena was Aide-de-Camps of then General Commanding Officer. His job was to check that helicopters land safely during evacuation. During one such occasion, the enemy targeted the helicopter with a missile. Anshuman, who could make out the direction of missile through the sound it made in the sky, immediately pulled Gunjan out of the way. The missile landed very close,” he says. Gunjan’s service ended seven years after Kargil War. Read this story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/eyes-on-the-sky-this-kargil-girl-scripted-history-in-1999-war-zone/articleshow/77176257.cms||Aditi Singh
July 26, 2020||Madurai||Madurai’s Covid-19 death rate second highest in Tamil Nadu||MADURAI: The Covid-19 death toll in Madurai district crossed 200 on Saturday, making it the district with the third highest number of deaths in Tamil Nadu after Chennai (1,989) and Chengalpattu (222). The death rate in Madurai is at 2.1%, which is only behind Chennai’s 2.1% in the state. This is despite the recent reconciliation of 444 Covid-19 deaths to Chennai’s tally. As of Saturday, there have been as many as 202 Covid-19 deaths in the district, including 101 at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) and 98 in various private hospitals. The remaining three deaths comprised one at railway hospital in Madurai and two at hospitals in other districts. “Covid-19 is a deadly disease. In any hospital, despite best efforts by doctors, there are going to be deaths. We are monitoring all parameters and trying to improve,” said Dr K Senthil, head of treatment protocol committee at GRH. Hospital authorities said that all latest globally approved drugs and treatments like Remdesivir, Tocilizumab and high-flow nasal oxygen therapy (HFNO) have been made available to treat severe cases. Out of the 202 Covid-19 deaths in Madurai, 181 had co-morbid conditions like diabetes and hypertension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurais-death-rate-second-highest-in-tn/articleshow/77176421.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
July 26, 2020||Kochi||Child welfare council sets up temporary care home in Thiruvananthapuram||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: As Covid-19 cases rise unpredictably, Kerala state council for child welfare in association with women and child development department has arranged a temporary care home for children in Thiruvananthapuram. The care home is in addition to the child-care centre at its headquarters at Thycaud. The new facility, which can house more than 50 kids, is arranged at a hostel building in LMS compound. Children up to the age of 17 years will be accommodated in the building. The service of ayah and nurses are provided by the child welfare council. The facility was started considering the possibility of children being left alone when both parents have to be admitted for Covid-19 treatment. “Children are admitted to the centre based on the direction from the child welfare committee. And recently, a few children were admitted to the child-care centre at Thycaud. Due to safety reasons, a separate quarantine facility is arranged for these kids. But, it will not be sufficient if more children are admitted. Hence, the temporary care home was arranged in consultation with women and child development department authorities. Food and treatment will be arranged from the centre at Thycaud,” said Shiju Khan J S, chairman of child welfare council. There are 75 kids at the centre at Thycaud. Covid protocol is followed at the centre as per the directions of the health department. The staff are provided PPE kits while visiting the quarantine facility. “The ayahs and nurses are working selflessly for the children. Some of the ayahs at the centre did not go home for more than a month to take care of the children. The Covid test for children will be conducted by the health department,” Khan said. The child welfare council, which runs anganwadis and institutions in other districts, had earlier proposed to convert the centres as isolation facilities for patients under treatment for Covid. These institutions will be converted to accommodation facilities for children based on demand. The council has also started a district-level monitoring cell for helping kids suffering from depression or stress due to lockdown. Children who need counselling may contact Thanal, an initiative of the child welfare council, at toll-free number 1517.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/child-welfare-council-sets-up-temporary-care-home-in-tvm/articleshow/77173006.cms||Anasooya.S
July 26, 2020||Kochi||Move to pool staff for FLTCs may hamper non-Covid care||KOCHI: Without laying to rest apprehensions that setting up more Covid first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) and hospitals would paralyze non-Covid treatment in the state, the government has issued guidelines for pooling more health services staff to battle the pandemic. State and district-level committees, which are to be floated, will be in charge of pooling and management, including procurement of manpower from the private sector. Last week, TOI had reported how the government's plan to increase Covid treatment facilities without recruiting more healthcare staff will hamper non-Covid care in the government sector. Providing adequate manpower to FLTCs will be the responsibility of the district-level committees. “The committees will pool healthcare staff for Covid-19 treatment and prevention. They will also form teams to man FLTCs,” said an official with the health department. The team leader should be a medical officer while the co-leader can be either an Ayush medical officer or a dental surgeon. Each team will also comprise a staff nurse, lab technician, pharmacist and attendant. According to the government guidelines, staff, including doctors, with family health centres where evening outpatient wings have been scrapped in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak will initially be pooled. Then, staff from community health centres (CHCs) that have more than three doctors and fewer patients in the outpatient department will be identified. Once this process in completed, collectors will withdraw staff from other non-Covid hospitals in their respective districts. This will be followed by specialists from non-Covid hospitals to man the centres. Each district-level committee, led by the collector, will then proceed to identify doctors and staff of Ayush hospitals. The staff thus pooled must be deployed at Covid centres on a rotational basis so as to ensure that they are well rested, to avoid fatigue and exhaustion. The guidelines further empower collectors to procure healthcare staff from private hospitals. However, doctors with the health department are of the view that the move will lead to the collapse of Covid and non-Covid treatment in the state. “The government, which is supposed to recruit more healthcare personnel, including doctors, is not doing anything in this regard. As of now, the government is offering a monthly salary of just Rs 40,000 to an MBBS doctor recruited on a stopgap basis. Moreover, around Rs 5,000 is deducted as part of the salary deferment policy of the government. So, many youngsters are not ready to join government service, even on a temporary basis,” said G S Vijayakrishan, general secretary of Kerala Government Medical Officers’ Association (KGMOA). “Government should offer better pay and start recruiting more MBBS doctors and PG students. Of the around 74,000 registered medical practitioners in the state, less than 10,000 are with government service. The government should also take urgent measures to recruit more doctors and staff from the private sector,” Vijayakrishnan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/move-to-pool-staff-for-fltcs-may-hamper-non-covid-care/articleshow/77173011.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
July 26, 2020||Nashik||Trimbakeshwar Shravan pheri banned||Nashik: The annual circumambulation (pheri) of the Trimbakeshwar temple during the month of Shravan has been banned by the local administration this year. The administration held a meeting with the tehsildar, municipal council officials and elected representatives late on Friday evening and decided not to allow any person to circumambulate the temple to stop the spread Covid-19 infection. Each circumambulation covers a distance of nearly 15 km The state government has already banned religious functions until further notice. Though walking as a personal exercise has been allowed as part of the Covid-19 health advisory, it does not apply to the Shravan Somwar pheri. This is because there is no guarantee that the people will not come in groups and contribute to the spread of Covid-19. According to sub-district officer Tejas Chavhan, the police and the tehsildar have been directed to take all the precautionary and prohibitory measures to ensure that people do not turn up at Trimbakeshwar on Monday, July 27 (the first Monday of Shravan month). In the month of Shravan, pilgrims from across the state and the country come to the Trimbakeshwar temple. On every Monday of the month, there is usually a huge gathering of people who circumambulate the temple. People, including priests in the town, have been told to inform people who get in touch with them for various rituals that none of the services will be allowed until further orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/trimbakeshwar-shravan-pheri-banned/articleshow/77042754.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 26, 2020||Madurai||Schools ‘unofficially’ begin Class XI admissions||Madurai: Many private and government-aided schools in Madurai district have begun admissions and online classes unofficially for Class XI, even as students are waiting for their Class X marks. The students were allotted groups for Class XI based on their half-yearly and quarterly marks. “We have submitted the half-yearly, quarterly marks and attendance for calculation of Class X marks. Most students often continue in the same school so we are letting them move ahead with their studies,” said the principal of private matriculation school. The schools also said that textbooks have been provided and the only thing that is preventing them from officially starting admissions is the announcement of results for Class X students. “We have allotted groups for Class XI based on marks in quarterly, half-yearly and revision exams. Those who had scored 400 and above were allotted science group,” said a headmaster from a government-aided school. In some cases, the schools are also considering a student’s choice of group, based on recommendation by parents and teachers. Though these admissions are ‘unofficial’, online classes have already started. Madurai district chief educational officer (CEO), R Swaminathan was unavailable for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/schools-unofficially-begin-class-xi-admissions/articleshow/77176423.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
July 26, 2020||Madurai||Nurses on consolidated pay seek regularisation, hike in salaries||Madurai: Nurses recruited by the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Recruitment Board (TNMRB) for a consolidated pay have demanded an increase in salary stating that they are getting paid less than regular staff nurses, for the same amount of work. The nurses, posted as Covid-19 frontline workers in various government hospitals and primary health centres (PHCs) also demanded the regularisation of their services. “While regular staff nurses are getting paid Rs 45,000, we are getting only Rs 15,000. But, we all do the same work. In this pandemic time, we are risking ours and family’s safety by coming out to work for long hours. Our families are also suffering from financial distress. At least now, the government should consider our demands,” said G Vimala* (name changed), a nurse from Madurai district. The nurses further said that many of them have been working for five years but their services are yet to be regularised. “When we joined, we were promised that we would be given permanent position in two years when vacancies arise. However, we are merely being shrugged off saying there are no vacancies. When healthcare workers around the world are being recognised as heroes, we still have to fight for our rights,” said another nurse, N Kamala*. The nurses also said there has been no increase in their salaries over the years. “The apathy of the government is disheartening. Even earlier, we had to fight tooth and nail, go to court and protest. A few of the nurses got their services regularised. After that, there has been no response from the government,” added Kamala. They said that with priority on serving the public, they are unable to even raise their voice in protest. “We hope to get recognition and justice for our dedicated service to the public,” said Vimala. Meanwhile, a higher official from the department of health and family welfare said that regularisation of nurses is occurring as per seniority and vacancies arising after retirement of existing staff, or based on promotion. “It must be noted that 60% are regular staff and 40% are contractual staff. There is always a possibility that not everyone can be regularised quickly. Every year, in a short time, 600-1,000 contractual staff are regularised. The government is trying to incentivise the work done during Covid-19 pandemic. Proposals are in the pipeline and will be considered,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/nurses-on-consolidated-pay-seek-regularisation-hike-in-salaries/articleshow/77176424.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
July 26, 2020||Goa||After flak, Goa govt rethink on municipal elections||PANAJI: Months after the Pramod Sawant-led government had to beat a hasty retreat from trying to push ahead with zilla parishad polls, the state government again found itself in an uncomfortable situation after having proposed municipal council polls on October 18 and had to issue a statement late on Saturday night that it was re-evaluating it. “The decision about municipal council elections in the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic is yet to be taken,” the government said in a statement issued at 11.15pm. State election commissioner RK Srivastava had told reporters on Thursday that the government proposed to hold polls to 11 municipal councils on October 18 as the tenure of these councils ends in November. Sources said the government changed its stance on the issue after the opposition announced its intention to put the government on the mat during Monday’s assembly session amid widespread criticism from public over its lack of sensitivity towards fighting the disease. In the statement, the government said that it had accorded approval to the state election commission to hold the general election to municipal councils on October 18 by its letter dated January 7, much before the onset of the pandemic. “Presently, the government is re-evaluating the recommendation/approval in light of the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the state,” the statement read. All opposition parties castigated the government for planning to go ahead with the polls. Goa Forward Party president Vijai Sardesai had slammed the government, calling its plan “cruel joke as the Covid situation is worsening day-by-day in the state”. “The government is suffering from election fever,” he said. “All they can think about is elections, and not the suffering of the people due to the pandemic.” Aam Aadmi Party convener Elvis Gomes said the government had yet again put its own interests above the health of the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-facing-flak-state-now-says-relooking-at-municipal-council-polls/articleshow/77176251.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Your power bill may go up if SDMC okays electricity tax hikes tomorrow||NEW DELHI: Power bills for lakhs of south Delhi households may become costlier in coming months if South Delhi Municipal Corporation gives its go-ahead to a proposal to increase electricity tax. Facing an acute financial crunch, SDMC wants to increase the electricity tax from the existing rate of 5% of the billing amount to 6%. The commissioner and the standing committee have already cleared the proposal and a final decision will be taken by the House on Monday. The electricity tax is collected by the distribution companies on behalf of municipal corporations. The commissioner’s proposal argues that financial assistance and grants of the civic body have drastically reduced from 2018-19 onwards and they are not even able to meet their normal expenditure. A senior south corporation official said that the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act authorises the corporation to levy tax on consumption, sale and supply of electricity within the jurisdiction areas. It is estimated that around 60 lakh people live in four administrative zones of the south corporation—South, West, Central and Najafgarh. Another SDMC official added that the hike in electricity tax was recommended by the 5th Delhi Finance Commission report.  “The Urban development department had constituted 5th Delhi Finance Commission in 2016. The commission in its report has recommended for enhancement of rate of electricity tax from the current level of five % to six%. Delhi government has decided to continue with the present arrangement,” the proposal reads. If a consumer gets a bill of Rs 2,000, he/she is currently paying an electricity tax of Rs 100. If the proposal is cleared, they will have to pay Rs 120, explained the official. Apart from the power bill hike proposal, the House will also take a decision on property tax hike on commercial properties, professional tax and way leave charges. All these proposals, if approved, are likely to increase burden on the pockets of Delhites. The cash-strapped civic body is planning to levy professional taxes on self-employed professionals, such as doctors, lawyers, etc. “Professionals earning less than Rs 20,000 a month will be kept out of the ambit of the new tax. If the move is cleared, others will have to shell out Rs 150-200 per month. The new tax is likely to bring Rs 50 crore revenue for the municipal corporation,” said an official. TOI had earlier reported about SDMC’s plans to impose way leave charges and to increase property tax on commercial properties, which would impact road cutting agencies and commercial properties, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/your-power-bill-may-go-up-if-sdmc-okays-electricity-tax-hikes-tomorrow/articleshow/77176276.cms||Paras Singh
July 26, 2020||Goa||Covid-19 vaccine given to 11 as human trials begin in Goa||PANAJI: Eleven volunteers were administered doses of Bharat Biotech’s indigenously-developed Covaxin at Redkar hospital in North Goa on Saturday. While the vaccination of 11 male volunteers was completed by 3.15pm, the remaining 39 will receive their doses on Monday and Tuesday. It will mark the conclusion of phase-1, said Dr Dhananjay Lad, director of Crome clinical research pvt ltd, the agency in charge of the trials. He said they didn’t encounter any problem with the vaccinations. “None of the volunteers showed any adverse reaction,” he said. “All of them were sent home two hours after the dose was injected.” Bhavesh Zambaulikar, 40, was the first to receive the dose at 10am. The 39 who will receive their doses on Monday and Tuesday include five women. The youngest woman is 23 and the youngest male is 21. Phase-2 of the process, which involves screening 100 participants, will start on Monday simultaneously with phase-1, Lad said. It will be completed by Wednesday, and those whose reports are normal will be called for their doses. “We need to complete the vaccination of participants by Friday,” he said. After this is completed, the next step will involve calling the participants to check antibodies in their system. The analysis will be done on the 14th day after the dose was injected, and accordingly, the efficacy of the vaccine will be examined. Lad said the whole exercse will be completed before August 14, and that around 500 volunteers showed interest in participating in the trial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/human-trials-for-covid-vaccine-begins-in-goa-11-receive-39-more-to-get-tomorrow/articleshow/77176253.cms||Bindiya Chari
July 26, 2020||Nagpur||Covid care centres to open in pvt hotels for asymptomatic patients||Nagpur: With surge in Covid-19 positive patients in the district, divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar has given permission for starting Covid Care Centre (CCC) in private hotels in the city. Patients willing to pay can opt for CCC in private hotels while those who want to avail free of cost treatment will be admitted to Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC)-run CCCs.Kumar, who held a meeting with owners of private hotels on Saturday, said over 85% positive patients are asymptomatic and can be treated at CCC. “Approval has been given for CCCs at private hotels as some patients might want to stay there during treatment period,” he said.He added CCC in private hotels will be linked to a private hospital. “Nurses and doctors will be made available by the private hospital. After medical teams from GMCH and IGGMCH declare patients as asymptomatic, they will be given choice. “One private hotel is likely to start CCC soon,” he said adding that the rate there has been fixed at Rs2,500 per patient per day, which includes all facilities like bed, food, check-up etc. According to Kumar, more private hotels are interested but they have quoted high rates. “The hotels have been asked to reduce the charges. Rates will differ with category of private hotels but we will finalize them in best interest of patients,” he said.Earlier on Kumar’s initiative, private hotels had been roped in as quarantine centre for high-risk contacts of positive patients and international travellers. Four private hotels in the city are providing the service with charges.Kumar and municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe are exploring options to develop sufficient number of CCCs to reduce load on GMCH, IGGMCH and AIIMS that have been treating Covid-19 positive patients since March. These hospitals are also attending to increased number of non-Covid patients.After MLA Hostel, the NMC has converted Shalinitai Meghe Hospital into CCC, besides 3-4 quarantine centres.A record 222 persons had tested positive on Friday. Sources in NMC said there was delay in admitting patients to isolation wards at GMCH, AIIMS or CCCs at MLA Hostel and Shalinitai Meghe Hospital that have exhausted their capacity. Similar delay was reported on previous two days as well. On Saturday, 150 persons tested positive, increasing the district’s tally to 3,837. The district had registered 1,505 cases in 112 days between March 11 and June 30. Of the total cases, 2,332 (60.77%) have been recorded in 25 days of July while 1,369 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-care-centres-to-open-in-pvt-hotels-for-asymptomatic-patients/articleshow/77174293.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 26, 2020||Rajkot||Three murder accused nabbed after six months||Rajkot: Three absconding accused in the Thebchada village murder case in Rajkot taluka were nabbed on Saturday.Police said the accused, Popat Vadher (63), Keshu Vadher (49) and Chana Vadher (60) were part of a 19-member gang which had allegedly hacked to death Lakhdhirsinh Jadeja (57) and injured his cousins Harendrasinh Jadeja (50) and Balwantsinh Jadeja (50) on January 29. The accused led by Chhagan Koli and his brother Magan Koli had attacked the victims with swords, scythes, axes and iron pipes. Police have already arrested 16 accused in the case. “We received a tip-off about the accused trio visiting their residences in Thebchada, following which we raided their houses and nabbed them,” said Balbhadrasinh Jadeja, assistant sub-inspector with Rajkot detection of crime branch. “At present, we have detained the trio. We will officially arrest them once they undergo Covid-19 test,” he added. The murder was the result of a land dispute between the families of Lakhdhirsinh Jadeja and Chhagan Koli. On the fateful day on January 29, when the Jadejas had gone to take the possession of the land, as per Supreme Court’s order, they were accompanied by 10-odd cops from Aji Dam police station. In the presence of the policemen, the members of the Koli family attacked Lakhdhirsinh Jadeja, Harendrasinh Jadeja and Balwantsinh Jadeja. The Jadejas had alleged that the land was encroached upon by the Kolis. Both the families had moved the court. In 2016, the Supreme Court (SC) gave its ruling that the possession of the land be handed over to the Jadejas. The Kolis bought three months from the SC, saying that they needed the time to reap the standing crop. However, for the next 10 months, the Kolis did not vacate the land. The Jadejas approached the SC again with an application. This time, the SC issued orders to the Rajkot collector and Rajkot police to ensure possession of the land to the Jadejas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-murder-accused-nabbed-after-six-months/articleshow/77174298.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Kolkata||zee durga puja 25/07/20||Kolkata: Several big ticket Durga Pujas in the city have already started chalking out their plans for the festival this year which will be celebrated with several restrictions in the wake of the spread of the novel coronavirus this year.Last week, the government indicated that the biggest festival in the state will be celebrated this year, but the organisers will have to follow several guidelines to prevent the pandals from getting crowded. Bhowanipore 75 Palli in its 56th year will be curtailing the budget by almost 70%. “It is going to be a simple affair for us this year,” said Subir Das, general secretary. “We will also be following all the safety guidelines proposed by the government. A final plan will be chalked out after an online meeting with our members on Sunday.”At the iconic Mohammad Ali Park puja, too, the royal touch will be missing. “Last year we organised the Puja in the fire station adjacent to Mohammad Ali Park due to a reservoir collapse. This year due to the pandemic our Puja will be very low key. We have already applied for permission,” said Ashok Ojha, joint secretary of Puja committee. Subrata Mukherjee, a senior politician and chief patron of Ekdalia Evergreen, popular for its simple theme and old-world charm said almost all the Durga Pujas will be simple this year. “In the past few years the festival had grown a lot both in stature and appeal. But due to the pandemic even we at Ekdalia Evergreen will be keeping it simple so that people do get the festive feel, but it does not help in transmission of the virus,” said a member at the Ekdalia Evergreen Puja Committee. Activities have picked up in Kumartuli, the abode of idol makers in north Kolkata. Several smaller community Puja organisers and those in residential complexes have already placed their orders in the past one week after the state government indicated the festival will be celebrated with several restrictions. “I can only say it’s the blessings of Durga herself that we are able to do some work this year. It’s not only about livelihood but also about tradition. Till the beginning of this month we had reconciled to the fact that there won’t be any Durga Puja this year due to the pandemic,” said Gouranga Pal, an idol maker at Kumartuli. Several residential complexes and blocks in New Town have decided to just stick to the basics this year. “We are organising Durga Puja because we do not want to break the tradition, but people are really scared of the rapid spread of Covid-19. We do not know what the situation would be like in October,” said Kaushik Sengupta, a resident of CB Block in Action Area 1 of New Town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/zee-durga-puja-25/07/20/articleshow/77175263.cms||Zeeshan Javed
July 26, 2020||Goa||14-year-old, 5 others die of Covid-19 in Goa’s highest one-day count||PANAJI: The state recorded its highest single-day Covid-19 death count on Saturday after six persons succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 35. Among the fatalities was the youngest so far to have died of the virus in Goa — a 14-year-old girl from Khariwada, Vasco, who suffered from acute nephritis. A class IX student, the girl was admitted to Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, and died within a few hours of hospitalisation. “She was in very bad shape when brought to us,” a senior doctor said. “We tried our best to save her.” Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC) councillor Lavina D’Souza said that the girl was taken to the Chicalim sub-district hospital on Wednesday after she complained of pain in the stomach. “From there, she was transferred to GMC, and she died at 8.30am,” she said. Her last rites were conducted at the Maimollem kabrastan in Vasco. The other five deaths reported on Saturday were all at the ESI-Covid hospital in Margao. Early in the morning, an 80-year-old man from Chorao, who suffered from myocardial infarction and had a history of chest infection, died. A doctor said that he was transferred to the Covid hospital two days ago from GMC. Two more patients died in the morning — a 65-year-old woman from Vasco and an 80-year-old man from Sakhali — both of whom had underlying health conditions. Then, two more Covid deaths were reported in the evening. A 53-year-old man from Zuarinagar and a 54-year-old man from New Vaddem succumbed to the virus. One of them, a doctor said, was taken to the Covid hospital from the MPT Covid care centre, and he suffered from obesity and other comorbidities. Meanwhile, for the second consecutive day, recoveries exceeded the number of new cases detected. A total of 182 patients were declared cured and sent home, while 146 new cases were reported. The state’s active Covid-19 case count stands at 1,606. The highest number of new cases was reported at the Cortalim primary health centre, with 38 new infections. Other areas that reported a rise in cases are Porvorim, Margao, Balli, Curchorem, Panaji, Sanguem, Cortalim and Navelim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/14-yr-old-5-others-die-of-covid-in-goas-highest-one-day-count/articleshow/77176262.cms||Bindiya Chari
July 26, 2020||Nagpur||Airport earnings dip to nearly 10% of average before pandemic||Nagpur: Covid has brought down the income of Nagpur airport to nearly 10% of the daily average it clocked before the pandemic struck. Sources in Mihan India Limited (MIL), the state government agency which is managing the operations, said these days the arrivals and departures clubbed are at 900 persons in a day. In the normal times it used to be around 3,000 on an average. As against 36 flights earlier, it has come down to eight flights connecting to only three stations, said the sources. Currently, Nagpur has air connectivity to Delhi, Mumbai and Pune. Earlier, there were flights to Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Ahmedabad also apart from two international flights to Doha in Qatar and Sharjah in UAE, said the source. ”Even as the exact calculations need to be made, the earnings have easily dipped to 9% to 10% of the earlier levels,” said a senior official in MIL. Domestic flights had resumed at the Nagpur airport from May 25. There were flights connecting to Ahmedabad, Chennai, Kolkata, Bengaluru and Goa too, which have been eventually withdrawn due to lack of enough load. The airport had shut down on March 24 after the pandemic broke out. Traffic had thinned even before that, though there was a rush on the last day. The traffic remains to be low after the operations restarted amid strict Covid protocol. In between, the MIL had also cancelled the contract with GMR for airport development. Fresh bids will be called now. The tender was cancelled on the grounds that what GMR offered as a share in the revenue after taking over the airport was less than what MIL had earned as it managed the affairs on its own.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/airport-earnings-dip-to-nearly-10-of-average-before-pandemic/articleshow/77175325.cms||Shishir Arya
July 26, 2020||Kochi||App offers genome-based wellness care||KOCHI: As the spread of Covid-19 pandemic increases the demand for wellness solutions to fight comorbidities and lifestyle diseases, a Malayali health-tech entrepreneur has come up with an advanced AI-based mobile app, claimed to be the first-of-its-kind in the country, to offer personalized lifestyle modification recommendations to customers based on their genetic requirements. Sajeev Nair, founder and chairman of Vieroots Wellness Solutions Pvt Ltd, through their app named Eplimo (short for epigenetic lifestyle modifications), offers direct-to-consumer genetic predisposition tests to identify proneness to various deadly diseases, tolerance to various foods, responsiveness to various medicines, etc. and provide personalized solutions with the help of certified wellness practitioners. “Approx. 70% Covid-19 deaths were found to be due to comorbidity; means the patient has been under the treatment for diseases like diabetes, cancer, cardiovascular disease, hypertension, autoimmune diseases etc. As more than 90% of the lifestyle diseases are genetic in nature, one would be able to find out the lifestyle diseases for which one has higher risk by doing a genetic predisposition test. Our Viegenome test, conducted in association with leading genetics testing laboratory, Gene Tech Hyderabad, covers around 230 such health conditions and spots with precision, in which all diseases one has higher risk,” said Nair, who has over 15 years of experience in wellness tech industry. One’s gene is decoded and it is compared to the genetic standards of a healthy human body of respective age that is already available in the genetic data repository. “Eplimo provides a complete lifestyle modification plan based on one’s genetics and metabolic conditions, thus allowing him to prevent the onset of the disease and age healthy. It is for the first time that genome-based wellness care is introduced in India,” he said The app, which can be used by only registered customers, is designed to be a complete health companion. It will enable to digitize and store complete health data of a user and is compatible with smart wearable devices. Through the app, one can connect with wellness practitioners and fitness trainers within 5km distance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/app-offers-genome-based-wellness-care/articleshow/77177396.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
July 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Almost 80% of new Covid cases daily are infection through contact||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The daily tally of Covid cases once again crossed the 1,000-mark with 1,103 new cases -- a new single-day high -- being reported on Saturday, a day after it dipped to 885. Among the new cases, 877 were contact cases, of which the source of contact in 72 cases is unknown. More than the rising number of positive cases, it is the percentage of contact cases each day that has set the alarm bells ringing – it was 80.8% on July 22 (839 contact cases out of 1038 +ve cases), 79.4% on July 23 (856 contact cases out of 1078 +ve cases), 85% on July 24 (753 contact cases out of 885 +ve cases) and 79.5% on July 25 (877 contact cases out of 1103 +ve cases). The contact cases on Saturday include 21 health workers — 11 from Thiruvananthapuram, four from Pathanamthitta, two each from Kollam and Alappuzha and one each from Kottayam and Ernakulam, 8 KSC employees, 3 KFC employees, 2 KLF employees, 3 DSC jawans and 2 BSF jawans. In the last 24 hours, 22,013 samples were tested and the number has been above 20,000 for the last four days. Around 6.5 lakh samples have been tested so far. The number of recoveries continues to improve with 1,049 recoveries on Saturday, taking the total number of recoveries to 8,613 but sceptics say that the number is bloated due to the prevalence of antigen tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/almost-80-of-new-cases-daily-are-infection-through-contact/articleshow/77174279.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Almost 80% of new Covid cases daily are infection through contact||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The daily tally of Covid cases once again crossed the 1,000-mark with 1,103 new cases -- a new single-day high -- being reported on Saturday, a day after it dipped to 885. Among the new cases, 877 were contact cases, of which the source of contact in 72 cases is unknown. More than the rising number of positive cases, it is the percentage of contact cases each day that has set the alarm bells ringing – it was 80.8% on July 22 (839 contact cases out of 1038 +ve cases), 79.4% on July 23 (856 contact cases out of 1078 +ve cases), 85% on July 24 (753 contact cases out of 885 +ve cases) and 79.5% on July 25 (877 contact cases out of 1103 +ve cases). The contact cases on Saturday include 21 health workers — 11 from Thiruvananthapuram, four from Pathanamthitta, two each from Kollam and Alappuzha and one each from Kottayam and Ernakulam, 8 KSC employees, 3 KFC employees, 2 KLF employees, 3 DSC jawans and 2 BSF jawans. In the last 24 hours, 22,013 samples were tested and the number has been above 20,000 for the last four days. Around 6.5 lakh samples have been tested so far. The number of recoveries continues to improve with 1,049 recoveries on Saturday, taking the total number of recoveries to 8,613 but sceptics say that the number is bloated due to the prevalence of antigen tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/almost-80-of-new-cases-daily-are-infection-through-contact/articleshow/77177178.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Almost 80% of new Covid cases daily are infection through contact||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The daily tally of Covid cases once again crossed the 1,000-mark with 1,103 new cases -- a new single-day high -- being reported on Saturday, a day after it dipped to 885. Among the new cases, 877 were contact cases, of which the source of contact in 72 cases is unknown. More than the rising number of positive cases, it is the percentage of contact cases each day that has set the alarm bells ringing – it was 80.8% on July 22 (839 contact cases out of 1038 +ve cases), 79.4% on July 23 (856 contact cases out of 1078 +ve cases), 85% on July 24 (753 contact cases out of 885 +ve cases) and 79.5% on July 25 (877 contact cases out of 1103 +ve cases). The contact cases on Saturday include 21 health workers — 11 from Thiruvananthapuram, four from Pathanamthitta, two each from Kollam and Alappuzha and one each from Kottayam and Ernakulam, 8 KSC employees, 3 KFC employees, 2 KLF employees, 3 DSC jawans and 2 BSF jawans. In the last 24 hours, 22,013 samples were tested and the number has been above 20,000 for the last four days. Around 6.5 lakh samples have been tested so far. The number of recoveries continues to improve with 1,049 recoveries on Saturday, taking the total number of recoveries to 8,613 but sceptics say that the number is bloated due to the prevalence of antigen tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/almost-80-of-new-cases-daily-are-infection-through-contact/articleshow/77177019.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||App offers genome-based wellness care||KOCHI: As the spread of Covid-19 pandemic increases the demand for wellness solutions to fight comorbidities and lifestyle diseases, a Malayali health-tech entrepreneur has come up with an advanced AI-based mobile app, claimed to be the first-of-its-kind in the country, to offer personalized lifestyle modification recommendations to customers based on their genetic requirements. Sajeev Nair, founder and chairman of Vieroots Wellness Solutions Pvt Ltd, through their app named Eplimo (short for epigenetic lifestyle modifications), offers direct-to-consumer genetic predisposition tests to identify proneness to various deadly diseases, tolerance to various foods, responsiveness to various medicines, etc. and provide personalized solutions with the help of certified wellness practitioners. “Approx. 70% Covid-19 deaths were found to be due to comorbidity; means the patient has been under the treatment for diseases like diabetes, cancer, cardiovascular disease, hypertension, autoimmune diseases etc. As more than 90% of the lifestyle diseases are genetic in nature, one would be able to find out the lifestyle diseases for which one has higher risk by doing a genetic predisposition test. Our Viegenome test, conducted in association with leading genetics testing laboratory, Gene Tech Hyderabad, covers around 230 such health conditions and spots with precision, in which all diseases one has higher risk,” said Nair, who has over 15 years of experience in wellness tech industry. One’s gene is decoded and it is compared to the genetic standards of a healthy human body of respective age that is already available in the genetic data repository. “Eplimo provides a complete lifestyle modification plan based on one’s genetics and metabolic conditions, thus allowing him to prevent the onset of the disease and age healthy. It is for the first time that genome-based wellness care is introduced in India,” he said The app, which can be used by only registered customers, is designed to be a complete health companion. It will enable to digitize and store complete health data of a user and is compatible with smart wearable devices. Through the app, one can connect with wellness practitioners and fitness trainers within 5km distance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/app-offers-genome-based-wellness-care/articleshow/77173057.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
July 26, 2020||Kozhikode||App offers genome-based wellness care||KOCHI: As the spread of Covid-19 pandemic increases the demand for wellness solutions to fight comorbidities and lifestyle diseases, a Malayali health-tech entrepreneur has come up with an advanced AI-based mobile app, claimed to be the first-of-its-kind in the country, to offer personalized lifestyle modification recommendations to customers based on their genetic requirements. Sajeev Nair, founder and chairman of Vieroots Wellness Solutions Pvt Ltd, through their app named Eplimo (short for epigenetic lifestyle modifications), offers direct-to-consumer genetic predisposition tests to identify proneness to various deadly diseases, tolerance to various foods, responsiveness to various medicines, etc. and provide personalized solutions with the help of certified wellness practitioners. “Approx. 70% Covid-19 deaths were found to be due to comorbidity; means the patient has been under the treatment for diseases like diabetes, cancer, cardiovascular disease, hypertension, autoimmune diseases etc. As more than 90% of the lifestyle diseases are genetic in nature, one would be able to find out the lifestyle diseases for which one has higher risk by doing a genetic predisposition test. Our Viegenome test, conducted in association with leading genetics testing laboratory, Gene Tech Hyderabad, covers around 230 such health conditions and spots with precision, in which all diseases one has higher risk,” said Nair, who has over 15 years of experience in wellness tech industry. One’s gene is decoded and it is compared to the genetic standards of a healthy human body of respective age that is already available in the genetic data repository. “Eplimo provides a complete lifestyle modification plan based on one’s genetics and metabolic conditions, thus allowing him to prevent the onset of the disease and age healthy. It is for the first time that genome-based wellness care is introduced in India,” he said The app, which can be used by only registered customers, is designed to be a complete health companion. It will enable to digitize and store complete health data of a user and is compatible with smart wearable devices. Through the app, one can connect with wellness practitioners and fitness trainers within 5km distance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/app-offers-genome-based-wellness-care/articleshow/77177395.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
July 26, 2020||Vadodara||No closure for 5 female Great Indian Bustards after lone male bird went missing 2 years ago||AHMEDABAD: Indian law provides that a missing person can be declared dead seven years after his disappearance. However, with no such law guiding the land of the jungle, the five Great Indian Bustard (GIB) females staring at extinction with their lone male mate going missing two years ago may not get a closure anytime soon. The GIBs are known as the heaviest birds. The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) has categorised GIB as “critically endangered” in July 2013. Closer home, the Kutch Great Indian Bustard Sanctuary, also known as Lala–Parjan Sanctuary, located in Naliya had a peak of 58 birds in early 2000 which has dwindled to just 6 in 2019 The big blow came when the only male GIB went missing in September 2018. A major manhunt was launched to trace the missing male but all efforts have gone in vain. Devesh Gadhvi, deputy director of The Corbett Foundation and a member of the Bustard Specialist Group of IUCN, says, “After being sighted last in September 2018, the male bird has done a disappearing act. In the past there have been reports of GIB sighting in Velavadar, which is 350 km form the Bustard Sanctuary in Kutch, triggering a debate over its possible migration. But sans any tagging, it is not possible to conclude it for a fact.” Experts are intensely debating the possibility of death of the male GIB, citing that even if the bird migrates, it is known to come back to its place of origin once a year. “With Gujarat’s male GIB, this has not happened,” said an expert choosing not to go official with the speculation. Forest officials while rejecting the possibility of it being killed by wild animals say the only possibility is that the male got fried by high tension power lines in the sanctuary and carcass was disposed to claim it has gone missing. Future seems tense for the five female GIBs without mating. Hopes of help from Rajasthan’s GIB Captive Breeding Centre have currently dashed as WII experts, who are part of the breeding initiative, say it is yet to commence operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/no-closure-for-5-female-gibs-after-lone-male-bird-went-missing-2-years-ago/articleshow/77172036.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
July 26, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||A war veteran raring to go again||Major Prince Jose had left the Army after suffering 75% disability in the Kargil war 21 years ago. The explosion of an artillery shell of the enemy had thrown him some 300ft downhill from an ice wall at Sando Top in Drass sector, while on a mission to cut the enemy lines of maintenance. “Freedom comes at some cost. And there are people who have given their lives for our tomorrows,” Jose says. He had suffered head injuries in the fall but continued to lead one more assault on Zulu Top. A native of Kottayam, Major Prince is an alumnus of Sainik School, Kazhakootam. “Given a chance, I am ready to serve in the Army again. I will be glad if my children choose the same path,” he says. 'Freedom comes at a cost'“Freedom comes at some cost. And there are people who have given their lives for our tomorrows,” says now-retired Major Prince Jose. Twenty-one years ago, when the Kargil War broke out, a team comprising Major Prince was entrusted with a mission to cut the enemy lines of maintenance. The soldiers faced their first resistance at Sando Top in Drass sector. They had to scale an ice wall. “While preparing for the climb, we had a brief sighting of around 30 enemy soldiers climbing towards Sando Top from the glacier. We screamed for artillery support and the artillery poured fire,” says Major Prince. Almost near the top of the ice wall, an artillery shell of the enemy landed amidst the team. The explosion threw him off the slope and he landed around 300 feet downhill, injuring his head. Still, he continued with the operation and went on to lead one more assault on Zulu Top and took command of the high outpost. The fall had left Major Jose with 75% disability and he had to leave the Army after a service of 14 years. As the country observes the 21st anniversary of its triumph in Kargil War on July 26, the soldiers who took part in the conflict have come a long way but given a chance, many of them are willing to be on the frontline again. A Kottayam native, Major Prince is an alumnus of Sainik School, Kazhakootam. After completing graduation from S B College, Changanassery in BSc physics, he joined the Army. In the Army, he found a mentor in Captain Paul Bastine, an infantryman in the Jat regiment, who specialized in deep-sea diving. A member of the 9 Para (SF), an elite unit of special forces, Captain Paul died while carrying out an underwater feat. The incident led Prince to join special forces unit. “I was deployed for various counter intelligence operations at Kashmir, before the Kargil war began,” says Major Prince. Major Prince now works at a private firm in Bahrain. His family, including his wife and two children are in Kochi. “Given a chance I am ready to serve in the army again. I would be glad if my children decide to choose the same path,” says Major Prince.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/a-war-veteran-raring-to-go-again/articleshow/77174281.cms||Anasooya.S
July 26, 2020||Kochi||A war veteran raring to go again||Major Prince Jose had left the Army after suffering 75% disability in the Kargil war 21 years ago. The explosion of an artillery shell of the enemy had thrown him some 300ft downhill from an ice wall at Sando Top in Drass sector, while on a mission to cut the enemy lines of maintenance. “Freedom comes at some cost. And there are people who have given their lives for our tomorrows,” Jose says. He had suffered head injuries in the fall but continued to lead one more assault on Zulu Top. A native of Kottayam, Major Prince is an alumnus of Sainik School, Kazhakootam. “Given a chance, I am ready to serve in the Army again. I will be glad if my children choose the same path,” he says. 'Freedom comes at a cost'“Freedom comes at some cost. And there are people who have given their lives for our tomorrows,” says now-retired Major Prince Jose. Twenty-one years ago, when the Kargil War broke out, a team comprising Major Prince was entrusted with a mission to cut the enemy lines of maintenance. The soldiers faced their first resistance at Sando Top in Drass sector. They had to scale an ice wall. “While preparing for the climb, we had a brief sighting of around 30 enemy soldiers climbing towards Sando Top from the glacier. We screamed for artillery support and the artillery poured fire,” says Major Prince. Almost near the top of the ice wall, an artillery shell of the enemy landed amidst the team. The explosion threw him off the slope and he landed around 300 feet downhill, injuring his head. Still, he continued with the operation and went on to lead one more assault on Zulu Top and took command of the high outpost. The fall had left Major Jose with 75% disability and he had to leave the Army after a service of 14 years. As the country observes the 21st anniversary of its triumph in Kargil War on July 26, the soldiers who took part in the conflict have come a long way but given a chance, many of them are willing to be on the frontline again. A Kottayam native, Major Prince is an alumnus of Sainik School, Kazhakootam. After completing graduation from S B College, Changanassery in BSc physics, he joined the Army. In the Army, he found a mentor in Captain Paul Bastine, an infantryman in the Jat regiment, who specialized in deep-sea diving. A member of the 9 Para (SF), an elite unit of special forces, Captain Paul died while carrying out an underwater feat. The incident led Prince to join special forces unit. “I was deployed for various counter intelligence operations at Kashmir, before the Kargil war began,” says Major Prince. Major Prince now works at a private firm in Bahrain. His family, including his wife and two children are in Kochi. “Given a chance I am ready to serve in the army again. I would be glad if my children decide to choose the same path,” says Major Prince.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/a-war-veteran-raring-to-go-again/articleshow/77177169.cms||Anasooya.S
July 26, 2020||Kozhikode||A war veteran raring to go again||Major Prince Jose had left the Army after suffering 75% disability in the Kargil war 21 years ago. The explosion of an artillery shell of the enemy had thrown him some 300ft downhill from an ice wall at Sando Top in Drass sector, while on a mission to cut the enemy lines of maintenance. “Freedom comes at some cost. And there are people who have given their lives for our tomorrows,” Jose says. He had suffered head injuries in the fall but continued to lead one more assault on Zulu Top. A native of Kottayam, Major Prince is an alumnus of Sainik School, Kazhakootam. “Given a chance, I am ready to serve in the Army again. I will be glad if my children choose the same path,” he says. 'Freedom comes at a cost'“Freedom comes at some cost. And there are people who have given their lives for our tomorrows,” says now-retired Major Prince Jose. Twenty-one years ago, when the Kargil War broke out, a team comprising Major Prince was entrusted with a mission to cut the enemy lines of maintenance. The soldiers faced their first resistance at Sando Top in Drass sector. They had to scale an ice wall. “While preparing for the climb, we had a brief sighting of around 30 enemy soldiers climbing towards Sando Top from the glacier. We screamed for artillery support and the artillery poured fire,” says Major Prince. Almost near the top of the ice wall, an artillery shell of the enemy landed amidst the team. The explosion threw him off the slope and he landed around 300 feet downhill, injuring his head. Still, he continued with the operation and went on to lead one more assault on Zulu Top and took command of the high outpost. The fall had left Major Jose with 75% disability and he had to leave the Army after a service of 14 years. As the country observes the 21st anniversary of its triumph in Kargil War on July 26, the soldiers who took part in the conflict have come a long way but given a chance, many of them are willing to be on the frontline again. A Kottayam native, Major Prince is an alumnus of Sainik School, Kazhakootam. After completing graduation from S B College, Changanassery in BSc physics, he joined the Army. In the Army, he found a mentor in Captain Paul Bastine, an infantryman in the Jat regiment, who specialized in deep-sea diving. A member of the 9 Para (SF), an elite unit of special forces, Captain Paul died while carrying out an underwater feat. The incident led Prince to join special forces unit. “I was deployed for various counter intelligence operations at Kashmir, before the Kargil war began,” says Major Prince. Major Prince now works at a private firm in Bahrain. His family, including his wife and two children are in Kochi. “Given a chance I am ready to serve in the army again. I would be glad if my children decide to choose the same path,” says Major Prince.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/a-war-veteran-raring-to-go-again/articleshow/77177168.cms||Anasooya.S
July 26, 2020||Nagpur||State board reduces Std I-XII syllabus by 25%||Nagpur: The state education department has reduced the syllabus for Std I-XII by 25% to absorb the time lost due to Covid-19 pandemic. TOI was the first to report about the syllabus reduction plan. Earlier, CBSE had reduced its syllabus by 30%.The syllabus is applicable to all state board affiliated schools and junior colleges. Varsha Gaikwad, minister for school education, issued a public statement on Saturday afternoon confirming the development. “Due to the pandemic, schools are closed but our campaign to keep ‘education open’ is going on. At the government level, we have approved the syllabus reduction plan from Std I-XII due to the lockdown and pandemic,” said Gaikwad.TOI had reported on July 10 about the Maharashtra State Council for Educational Research and Training (MSCERT) preparing a plan for syllabus reduction. Since 2017, the responsibility for designing the syllabus has been shifted to MSCERT. Earlier, the state’s education board would oversee the changes.Zafar Khan, founder-president of School Headmasters Charitable Association, said the reduction should have been more. “Reduction should have been more than 30% because our students are those who will have more study time as compared to other boards. State board students also come from financially weaker sections and online classes are not an option for them. Syllabus can be completed only when physical classes start,” said Khan.Ashnarayan Tiwari, principal of Adarsh Vidya Mandhir (Gandhibagh), said the reduction is not at expected level. “We were looking at reduction of close to 35%. Forget about online classes for now and look at the time we are losing. Entire month of July is gone and junior classes won’t be able to start till September. So when half the academic year is lost, it would have been wiser to reduce syllabus by a higher percentage,” said Tiwari.He added that the reduction must be from later chapters. “The earlier chapters have been touched upon last year in many schools, so it will be easier to grasp concepts,” said Tiwari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-board-reduces-std-i-xii-syllabus-by-25/articleshow/77174304.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 26, 2020||Goa||Goa: Finally, teachers get to work from home, but till July 31||PANAJI: Complying with the MHRD’s directives, nearly twenty days later the directorate of education (DoE) finally issued a circular allowing teaching and non-teaching staff in Goa’s schools to work from home “as far as possible” up to July 31. The circular states that primary to the higher secondary school level employees “should not be called to school unnecessarily”. Director Santosh Amonkar, however, said that schools should get teachers to provide detailed information about the online classes they have conducted from June 4 till date and the syllabus they have completed by this mode so far. The circular also sets guidelines for conducting online classes stating that “online classes shall not be for more than two hours in a day” and that no online sessions should be held for primary students. “In case of primary section learning as far as practicable should be activity based and worksheet and supplementary material shall be sent via parents,” the circular reads. TOI had reported on July 10 that the DoE was violating the July 6 directives of the MHRD calling teachers to school premises for work, ignoring the ‘work from home’ orders of the Centre issued for teachers’ safety during the pandemic. Last week, teachers had sought an appointment with the governor to request for implementation of the MHRD orders in Goa as Covid-19 cases continued to rise in the state. In the circular now issued on July 24, the education director said that while teachers are allowed to work from home, the school head must maintain the contact number of all teachers to be able to contact them “as and when need arises”. Teachers should be made to gather data on availability of gadgets, Android mobile phones and network coverage to students. The school heads should also obtain weekly plans through the online mode from the teachers, Amonkar said. Amonkar said that all government, aided and unaided schools, including special schools, have to submit all this information to the DoE. “Every institute shall form a monitoring committee for online-offline education comprising of the head of the institute, management member, school management committee, PTA member and additional district education inspector. Schools can also appoint an education expert on the committee.” Amonkar said the committee will supervise the online as well as offline educational work bi-monthly by collecting the response from parents and students. “Teachers are to make full use of the online teaching undergone by them through SCERT to prepare original videos, notes, feedback forms, questionnaires, assignments (this should cover all academic subjects, including physical education, art, craft and music),” the circular stated. The study material should be used to teach the topic asynchronously (offline) and synchronous session (online) or virtual meets should be used to solve difficulties on the topics which have been already dealt through videos, teachers have been told. “This shall help the students go through videos as and when and also number of time as required,” the circular stated. It also stated that teachers should collect information of ‘mentors’ or ‘volunteers’ in the neighbourhood who are ready to guide the students. “Head of institution shall submit lessons of subject teachers to the DoE through a Google sheet. Teachers should update themselves by undergoing asynchronous training through SCERT and other resources available online,” Amonkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/finally-teachers-get-to-work-from-home-but-till-july-31/articleshow/77176263.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Nagpur||Private hospitals seek hike in charges for Covid-19 services||Nagpur: The Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) local chapter and Vidarbha Hospitals Association (VHA) have sought a hike in charges for treating novel coronavirus positive patients. This comes a day after the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) directed 10 private hospitals to be ready in 48 hours to admit patients.Representatives of IMA and VHA met divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe and collector Ravindra Thakre on Saturday. As per NMC sources, none of the hospitals have submitted a plan.Kumar told TOI that four private hospitals are ready to start services with immediate effect. “I have asked the associations to submit their expected charges which will be sent to the state government. Currently, they have to begin services with the approved rates,” he said.In a press release, VHA said, “We will form a committee to suggest feasible and uniform slab rates on no profit, no loss basis that will be applicable across the state. Private hospitals in other cities are charging rates higher than that approved.”Sources in VHA said every private hospital stand incur a loss of Rs2-3 lakh per day if patients are treated at government-suggested rates.Kumar said private hospitals will not admit asymptomatic positive patients and will function as dedicated Covid health centres (DCHCs) for positive patients with moderate symptoms.Orange City Hospital and Research Centre said in a statement that it has have sought time till August to make arrangements “to which the authorities have graciously accepted”.The private hospitals are likely to treat both Covid and non-Covid patients by earmarking a separate wing as DCHC.A couple of days ago, Mundhe had made mandatory for private hospitals to test all Influenza Like Illness (ILI) patients for Covid-19. The IMA and VHA have asked Kumar to make arrangements for procurement of rapid antigen kits. Kumar said the administration will supply it to private hospitals which will charge Rs700 per test from patients.IN A NUTSHELLCharges approved by state government for Covid-19 services: Rs4,000/day | Isolation ward, Rs7,500/day | ICU, Rs9,000/day | ICU with ventilator. Includes tests, bed fees, consultation of doctors, nurses, food and also proceduresWhat private hospitals say: Will incur loss of Rs2-3 lakh per day if government-approved rates are applied. Private hospitals in other cities are charging above approved rates. Committee formed by IMA and VHA will decide rates and submit it to divisional commissioner. State to have final say||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/private-hospitals-seek-hike-in-charges-for-covid-19-services/articleshow/77174300.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 26, 2020||Bareilly||Three girls sustain injuries after wall collapses on them||BAREILLY: Three minor sisters were grievously injured and a goat died after a wall of their house collapsed on them in Oel area of Lakhimpur Kheri district on Saturday afternoon. The children were playing on the floor when the wall collapsed due to the heavy rain and the girls and the goat got buried under the debris. Their father Shivkumar rescued them with the help of locals and rushed them to a hospital, while the goat that remained buried under the debris died. The children — Aarti (15), Sangima (8) and Shivani (3) —are undergoing treatment at the district hospital in Lakhimpur city. SHO Kheri police station Fateh Singh said, “After getting information, the Oel police post in-charge rushed to the village and arranged for an ambulance to shift the children to the hospital. The house is in a dilapidated condition and needs urgent repair. District administration has been informed about the incident and the family is expected to get compensation under the state natural calamity scheme.” This is the third incident of wall-collapse in the district in the past one week. Earlier, a 10-year-old boy and a 60-year-old woman had died in separate incidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-girls-sustain-injuries-after-wall-collapses-on-them/articleshow/77173074.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 26, 2020||Lucknow||Amid Covid spike, govt shifts Lucknow CMO||Lucknow: As the spike in Covid-19 cases continued in the state capital with 429 new patients found on Saturday, the state government shifted Lucknow CMO Dr Narendra Agarwal. While Dr Rajendra Prasad Singh was made the new CMO, Dr Agarwal was directed to join Raj Narain Lokbandhu Associated Hospitals as senior consultant. The government order asked Dr Agarwal to take charge of the new position immediately and inform authorities. Dr Singh, who was chief medical superintendent (CMS) of the Bhao Rao Devras (BRD) Civil Hospital in Mahanagar, assumed the charge as the CMO in the afternoon. The reshuffle also saw Dr Ramesh Chandra, joint director in the health directorate, being posted as the new CMS of BRD Civil Hospital. Dr Madhu Saxena, director at health directorate, was made director of the SPM Civil Hospital after the incumbent Dr DS Negi was promoted to the post of Director General, Medical Health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/amid-covid-spike-govt-shifts-lucknow-cmo/articleshow/77176277.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Delhi||Super-specialty hospital opens with 450 beds in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The super-specialty hospital in Burari in north Delhi, which was planned over a decade ago, was thrown open to the public on Saturday. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal inaugurated the hospital via videoconferencing. The newly-built hospital will have a total of 700 beds, out of which 450 beds have been installed. “Around 125 beds will have oxygen supply available with them, and the capacity will be enhanced in the coming days,” said an official. The official added that more than 38 doctors have already been posted at the hospital and deployment of additional staff, including specialists, adequate nursing staff and paramedical staff, is in process. The hospital will have specialty departments in neurology, gynaecology, paediatrics and cardiology. It will also offer outpatient medical care for gynaecology, paediatrics and orthopaedics. According to senior health officials, the residents of north and northwest Delhi did not have a super specialty hospital in the region and they were forced to travel to Safdarjung Hospital or AIIMS for necessary treatment. With this hospital now preparing to receive patients, people from the area as well as those from other parts of the city can avail of good treatment. The hospital will be able to initially cater to around 1,000 patients daily. Government officials claimed that since 2015, Delhi government has always tried to give utmost priority to health and education. “Authorities fast-tracked the construction of the Burari hospital so that residents of the region did not have to face problems in accessing quality healthcare,” they added. “I visited the hospital a few days back to inspect all arrangements that were being made in the hospital. The opening of this hospital will add 450 more beds to the health infrastructure in Delhi,” CM Arvind Kejriwal said. Health minister Satyendar Jain was present on the spot and was joined through videoconferencing by the chief minister. Watch Delhi gets much awaited super-specialty hospital with 450 beds in Burari||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/super-specialty-hosp-opens-with-450-beds/articleshow/77176290.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Leopard enters storeroom, caged after three hours||RAJKOT: In a dramatic post-midnight operation, a leopard that had sneaked inside a house in a village near Una town was rescued by the team of forest department staff in the early hours of Saturday. The fully grown leopard, believed to be around four years old, had got inside the house Dadbhai Majariya of Gadhiya village, mostly in the evening time on Friday. The wild cat was holed up inside an empty room while the family members were sleeping in the adjoining room. At around midnight, the family heard the growls and immediately realized that it was a leopard. They immediately locked the door from outside and called up the forest department team. The rescuers first lowered a snare made from rope inside the room from the rooftop and kept a cage at the entrance of the door. They then tried to move the leopard towards the door and ultimately it walked into the cage. Gadhiya is located in the revenue area of Khambha taluka and technically in the Tulsishyam range of Gir (east) division. The entire operation lasted for around two-and-a-half hours and the leopard was rescued without tranquillizing it at around 3:40am. According to sources in the forest department, the leopard might have been in search of a prey and entered the store room thinking it was a passage. But after sometime it realized that there was a wall on the other side and could not move out. Talking to TOI, Anshuman Sharma, deputy conservator of forest, Gir east division said, “The rescuers first lowered a snare made from rope inside the room from the rooftop and kept a cage at the entrance of the door. They then tried to move the leopard towards the door and ultimately it walked into the cage after the hard work of two hours. We did not need to tranquillize it.” Gadhiya is a remote village adjoining a forest area and the movement of leopards and lions is common here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/leopard-enters-storeroom-caged-after-three-hours/articleshow/77174311.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Nagpur||Centre asks state to lift curbs on sandalwood||Nagpur: After a move, which according to experts, will weaken environment laws in its push for ease of doing business, the Centre wants Maharashtra to amend rules on easing felling, transport and local sale of sandalwood. In a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray last month, Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar has urged him to ease rules and direct state forest department to prepare a plan on promoting sandalwood value-added enterprises by extending admissible incentives and establishing sandalwood parks and units. Based on Javadekar’s letter, the state government has sought report from the forest department. “Sandalwood has significant economic value. We will study various aspects before submitting a report. Sandal needs a transit pass from forest department,” a top forest official said requesting anonymity. Sandalwood has been included in the Red List of Indian Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) as ‘vulnerable’. In Maharashtra, it is on the verge of extinction and a section of officials fear environment ministry move will prove disastrous for the tree species. The existing Acts as well as amended Bombay Forest Rules are sufficient to curb illicit felling and transport of sandalwood trees. “Amendment in existing rules in respect of sandalwood felling and transit will be misused by traders as in the past. This will also be against Supreme Court and high court rulings,” said a section of senior forest officials. Javadekar has requested Thackeray to promote sandalwood by establishing sandalwood knowledge parks/industrial estates etc under central and state’s industrial and micro, small & medium enterprises (MSME) policies. Officials said amendments in existing rules for establishment of sandalwood trade will invite judicial and administrative hurdles. Earlier, strictures have been passed by Supreme Court as well as Nagpur bench of Bombay high court in respect of sandalwood oil mills. “The government must consider the orders passed by the high court on a PIL in 2006. While making any amendment in rules in respect of transit and felling permission to sandalwood traders and farmers, the court had directed the state government to cancel licenses granted to sandalwood oil mills and probe illicit felling and survey sandalwood trees,” officials said. State wildlife board member Kishor Rithe said, “In an affidavit filed in the high court by Nature Conservation Association, Amravati (NCSA), the forest department itself has admitted that Maharashtra has sporadic presence of sandalwood trees. If relaxations are made, within a year the remaining sandalwood trees will also vanish.” “If at all the state wants to frame any policy, it should plant sandalwood trees first and talk about it 30 years later when these trees become ripe to extract oil,” said Rithe. The Supreme Court in TN Godavarman Thirumulpad vs Union of India case had directed state governments on February 13, 2012, to frame policy to save sandalwood trees. The court had also directed Maharashtra to immediately close down all unlicensed sandalwood oil factories. The apex court had also asked whether sandalwood is an endangered species and opined that sandalwood be declared as a specified plant in Schedule VI of Wildlife Protection Act (WPA), 1972. The apex court also said that time had come to think of legislation similar to the Endangered Species Act in the USA that protects both endangered and threatened species. The court left it to National Board for Wildlife (NWBL) for inclusion of sandalwood in Schedule VI of WPA 1972. Rithe added instead of easing rules, time has come to take some concrete steps to preserve the sandalwood trees at any cost. Any relaxation in these rules will certainly ensure misuse in the bordering areas of sandalwood producing states, he said. PRICELESS SANDALWOOD Indian sandalwood (Santalum album) is prized worldwide for its cosmetic, therapeutic and aesthetic values India was once leader in sandalwood production with 80% share of world’s sandalwood oil Now India produces only about 400 tonnes of sandalwood The gap in demand and supply is met from Africa, Australia and South East Asia Minister wants Maharashtra to amend rules to ease felling, transport and local sale of sandalwood||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/centre-asks-state-to-lift-curbs-on-sandalwood/articleshow/77175335.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 26, 2020||Jaipur||Man killed over a piece of chicken||Jaisalmer: A fight over a piece of chicken led to the death of a labourer in Jaisalmer. The incident, which took place on Wednesday, was reported to police on Friday. The cops then took less than 24 hours to arrest the killer from Barmer. It all started when four labourers were having chicken and got involved in a brawl over distribution of pieces. In a fit of rage, one of the labourers attacked his colleague with a spade killing him. SP Ajay Singh said the labourers — Kumpnath, Kailashnath, Purkhnath, Ramnath — had cooked chicken. While eating, Kumpnath and Kailashnath had a fight as Kumpnath took more pieces of chicken. This enraged Kumpnath who attacked Kailashnath with a spade and fled. Kailashnath’s brother Moolnath, a resident of Mokhab Khurd of Barmer district, in his police complaint said his brother was working with contractor Bhanwarnath along with Purkhnath and Ramnath at an army area at Revant Singh Ki Dhani in Jaisalmer. After work at night, they were sleeping inside the army area. Around 4am, Kumpnath attacked Kailashnath with a spade on his head. Ramnath and Purkhnath, who were sleeping with Kailashnath, woke up and on seeing them, Kumpnath also attacked Purknath before fleeing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-killed-over-a-piece-of-chicken/articleshow/77175296.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Nagpur||Covid spread under control in Akola, claims research veteran Dr Hatekar||Nagpur: Akola is one of the worst hit districts in Maharashtra with the highest number of Covid-19 deaths (108) in Vidarbha. Since the first case of the district registered on April 8, Akola has 2383 cases till July 24. The daily surge in Covid-19 cases and increasing deaths despite the stringent lockdown, medication and other measures in the district could be disappointing for the residents, but a statistical study by a well-known economist, professor Dr Neeraj Hatekar from Mumbai University, has claimed that the Akola Municipal Corporation is perhaps the first corporation in the state to have got the Covid-19 infections under control. A few days ago, Dr Hatekar, who has been tracking the Covid-19 pandemic since March, had claimed that the worst is over in Mumbai and added that the situation will be under control. His claim has proved quite right. Now, he has presented some statistical equations based on which he has claimed that the curve of covid-19 cases has bent well and truly in Akola. In the graph regarding the number of new cases occurring on a daily basis, the curve can be seen as bent in Akola. The growth rate of new cases has also been declining and is very close to nil. Apart from the log of cumulative cases, the number of new cases daily, and the growth rate, Dr Hatekar has studied Effective R – which is a new concept in the Covid-19 statistics.“We examine the daily effective reproduction number (effective R) in Akola Municipal Corporation. The daily effective R is the number of secondary infections caused by a primary infection on a given day. An effective R greater than 1 implies that the disease spread is increasing, while effective R < 1 implies that the disease spread is contracting,” said Dr Hatekar. The effective R of Akola was more than 4 in the month of May. “But now, as we can see from the graph, the daily effective R in Akola is so close to the one that it is statistically indistinguishable from 1. This means that the pandemic spread is not expanding,” claimed Dr Hatekar. Finally, the doubling period (the actual number of days it takes for the cases to go from X to 2X) has been increasing consistently in Akola and it’s now nearly 40 days. The consistent increase denotes consistent progress from a consistent policy.Akola’s resident deputy collector Sanjay Khadse said that the state government’s health department also shows Akola in the ‘large fall’ category in Covid-19 cases.“Last week, the Akola Municipal Corpoation’s daily growth rate was 1% while case doubling rate was 137.5. Cases are coming from rural Akola in large numbers these days as we are conducting more than 500 rapid antigen tests on a daily basis. But, as far as the municipal corporation area is concerned, our measures have been quite successful,” said Khadse. The only cause for concern for Akola is the case fatality rate which is more than 4%. “We have received fresh stock of injections to save severe and critical patients. The CFR will also come down in the next two three weeks,” Khadse added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-spread-under-control-in-akola-claims-research-veteran-dr-hatekar/articleshow/77174314.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 26, 2020||Nagpur||Two end life in separate incidents||Nagpur: A 35-year-old daily wager ended his life at his residence at Bhim Nagar on Friday. MIDC police said the deceased, Moreshwar Dhomne, was a roadside vendor and had a tiff with his wife. Angry over this, he allegedly hanged himself at his house. Police have registered a case of accidental death and are further probing the matter.In another incident, a 52-year-old man from Saraswati Nagar near Dhantoli police station, who had attempted to end his life, died on Friday night. Police said the deceased, Shankar Ankar (52), was an alcoholic and attempted to end his life by hanging himself on July 12. But Ankar’s family members foiled the attempt and rushed him to Mayo hospital. A case of accidental death has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-end-life-in-separate-incidents/articleshow/77174306.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur’s garbage pains persist amidst rains||JAIPUR: As the firm responsible for garbage collection and Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) have locked horns over the payment issue, residents in the state capital are facing huge inconvenience during the monsoon. It’s been more than three years that the garbage collection scheme was launched in the city. But residents are facing inconvenience as staff appointed by the private firm is not collecting garbage from the houses in the designated wards. Residents living in colonies on the outskirts are facing more difficulties as vehicles have not been collecting garbage for over a month. Marudhar Kanwar, a resident of Sidd Nagar says, “No vehicle has come since the past one month and heaps of garbage are collected in our colony. As monsoon is here, it will bring in diseases.” The garbage can be thus found littered in the neighbourhoods. However, according to the claims on paper, per day approximately 1,390 metric tonne garbage is lifted from the city. A former BJP councillor said, “The garbage is only lifted on papers and fake bills are produced to benefit the company. The company doesn’t have sufficient resources to collect garbage from entire wards.” The tussle between JMC and the firm also prevails over the payment issue. JMC claims the firm is not adhering to the norms laid by the corporation, while the firm has disrupted the daily garbage collection. Sources said, in many zones including the Walled City area, Vidyadhar Nagar, Sanganer, Moti Doongri, the JMC pays Rs 1,792 to the firm. Similarly, in Civil Lines and Mansarovar zones Rs 1,771 is paid. “The firm has produced Rs 304 crore bills, however, as per JMC estimation, JMC has to pay Rs 236 crore, out of which Rs 154 has been paid off,” said the source. As the garbage could not be lifted and transported to its designated landfill sites due to the tussle, residents in many areas are compelled to stay indoors due to the stench. Heaps of garbage can be spotted near Purani Basti, Brahmpuri, Nahri ka Naka, Shastri Nagar, Chandpol Bazaar, Johri Bazaar and Tripolia Bazaar. Ratan Kumar Jain, who lives near Chandpol says, “The government is wasting public money on hiring a firm. Still no facility is being provided.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/citys-garbage-pains-persist-amidst-rains/articleshow/77176280.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Jaipur||Man gets 20 years in jail for rape||Jaisalmer: A Pocso court in Jaisalmer on Saturday sentenced a man with 20 years of rigorous imprisonment and penalty of Rs 1 lakh for raping a minor. The judge, hearing the case, sentenced the accused in 11 months. Pocso court special judge Narendra Singh Malawat, sentenced Suresh Vishnoi, a resident of Lathi police station area, to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment under Section 366 and two months’ additional imprisonment and a penalty of Rs 10,000, three years RI under Section 354 (d) and penalty of Rs 3,000, for raping a 13-year-old. He sentenced him to additional one month simple imprisonment on not paying the penalty. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-gets-20-years-in-jail-for-rape/articleshow/77175316.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Goa||AA meetings move online amid Covid-19, keep members’ spirits buoyed||PANAJI: “Hi. I am Anthony and I am an alcoholic. I haven’t had a drink today,” says the first member at an Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) meeting. The other 20-odd members welcome him, kicking off the one-hour meeting that has moved online during Covid-19 times. The shift to the virtual world appears to have benefitted many alcoholics and their families who have been able to learn about the disease by joining in anonymously, without compromising on their social status. “They put in a name, mute their microphones and listen in. They get information about why people take to alcohol and identify with them. They don’t have to actively share and nobody asks them any questions. It’s a free fellowship right from one’s home,” chairman of the North Goa intergroup, George, says. The older, less tech-savvy members, however, continue to support one another via phone calls. Goa has 67 AA groups of which 50 are in South Goa. Prior to the lockdown, face-to-face meetings were regularly held in schools, church halls and at primary health care centres. A recent online meeting that revolved around the theme of ‘false pride’, gave members an opportunity to share experiences of having failed when they relied solely on themselves and their willpower to quit. Ralph, one of the younger members who is in his early twenties, was happy to tell the others that he had been clean for 65 days. Addicted to both alcohol and drugs, he was brought up by a maid after his parents split. By the age of 17, he had landed in rehab. “After my relapse, I’ve accepted that I can’t control myself. I’ve squandered my parents’ money. I’m fed up of it and want to stop,” he told the other members during the meeting. In fact, compared to pure alcoholics who would reach out to AA Goa a decade or two ago, several of the younger members are dual addicts like Ralph — addicted to both, alcohol and drugs. “We find that the newcomers started early and are also seeking help early. They only lack patience to stick around. It’s much easier for them to get in and out of the group when it’s online,” George says. Easy accessibility to online meetings has also prompted those in need to attend as many as they can. Paul, a member, said he tries to attend meetings in the mornings and evenings too, as he is always dependent on the group to remain sober. “It is the only ray of hope for me. Whenever I feel like taking a drink, I call up an AA member,” he says. For Jude, who has been sober for over a decade now, the virtual meetings prevent him from convincing himself that he requires a drink. He admits that although he is an adult, he has the emotional maturity of a 14-year-old and only needs a simple excuse to forget all that he has gone through and get back to his old ways. Women continue to be closet drinkers, with very few logging into the meetings online. “It was difficult for women to attend AA meetings in the past as members were predominantly male and it was difficult to identify with their experiences. For women, alcoholism is a problem that is yet to be addressed. Somehow, society says it’s OK for a man to be an alcoholic,” an AA member says. Whether online or offline, group therapy has proved effective in helping alcoholics stay away from the bottle when they listen to the experiences of others. They are also encouraged by those who have changed and are living purposeful lives today. “The biggest misconception is that alcoholism is a habit and that one can stop any time. Just like people with illnesses like cancer, an alcoholic too needs understanding and compassion. Everyone consumes sugar but only some will develop diabetes. It’s the same with alcohol,” George says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aa-meetings-move-online-amid-covid-keep-members-spirits-buoyed/articleshow/77176274.cms||Lisa Monteiro
July 26, 2020||Nagpur||Fear of Reds halts home studies for G’chiroli students||Nagpur: Neither the inevitable lockdown, nor the inhospitable terrain or dense jungles deterred the dedicated teachers of Gadchiroli’s Zilla Parishad (ZP) schools to reach out to their pupils. However, the fear of Naxalites made them unanimously decide not to visit villages. They will be confining themselves to their respective homes for a week from Monday due to Naxalites’ annual bandh call which starts from July 28.Locally known as “Naxal / shahid saptah” (Naxalite / Martyrs Week), this is the time when the Maoists prohibit movement in and out of villages. A teacher, who had been regularly visiting remote villages to teach children, said this is an order he cannot defy. “With Naxalites you really cannot take a chance. Though they all know we are teachers and have been regularly visiting villages, but there is no point in provoking them. So, for another seven days we will stay put and not venture out,” he said.TOI had reported on Saturday about how teachers are taking home studies of students by visiting their villages. This has been necessitated because of schools being closed due to the lockdown.These classes have been going on regularly since June last week, and had even progressed to regular classrooms when almost 300 schools reopened in July. But the schools were closed again to align with a central government order related to the lockdown.Another senior teacher said Naxalites have given advance notice to all about the movement restriction. “The village I visit is in a very remote area. On the way you hardly meet anyone, which will now come down to zero for a week. So unofficially, we all have been asked to stay at home and resume duty next week,” the teacher said.An education official told TOI that anyway schools are closed for the lockdown, and the village or home visit is something that’s beyond the call of duty. “It’s only a week that we will stop the activity for. So academically there won’t be any loss for students because we are still in revision mode. Situation is actually tensed in Bhamragarh right now, so our staff should not unknowingly become a trigger for any flashpoint,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fear-of-reds-halts-home-studies-for-gchiroli-students/articleshow/77174320.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 26, 2020||Goa||Snake-killings upset wildlife enthusiasts||Panaji: Photos of mangled carcasses of seven juvenile pythons by the roadside at Reis Magos on social media saddened animal lovers. A week earlier, wildlife enthusiasts and others were outraged over a youth’s killing of two rat snakes and dragging them on his two-wheeler. Incidence of road kills is quite significant, as with a large vehicle population and a long road network, it is difficult to avoid the mishaps. But some wildlifers said that people killing the reptiles willfully is not common. “In Goa, with reverence for life and life forms, tolerance for snakes among people is very high, specially in the last decade. This is due to a widespread snake rescuers network, which includes forest department, animal rescue squad and quick communication on mobile phones for rescues,” Nirmal Kulkarni, a herpetologist said. The stray incidents of killing may be mainly out of ignorance or, in a few cases, if it is unavoidable. “There are some who are unaware that the forest department can arrest them under the Wildlife Protection Act (WPA), 1972, for killing a snake,” Roland Martins of Goacan, a voluntary organisation, said. The organisation has petitioned the department to launch a special awareness campaign on snake protection and WPA. Martins said that they receive a large number of queries on snakes and wildlife. Access to mobile phones has helped identify snakes in a jiffy through photographs. “If they are non-poisonous, people let them go,” Kulkarni said. Goacan has suggested holding of a snake festival with various stakeholders to sensitise adults and children, as they are important for the ecosystem and biodiversity. While listing various measures, the group has also pointed out that the department should upload related information on its website and tie up with biodiversity management committees at the village level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/snake-killings-upset-wildlife-enthusiasts/articleshow/77176296.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Gurgaon||HC stays action on Sushant Lok RWA in extortion case||Gurgaon: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday stayed further action on an extortion FIR filed against members of Sushant Lok residents’ welfare association (RWA). The RWA and its members were booked for allegedly collecting entry tax from heavy vehicles entering the colony. The RWA was allegedly collecting Rs 3,500 from each vehicle entering the area with construction material for a house in the locality. A case was registered at Sushant Lok police station against the RWA members, based on a complaint filed on June 20 by Pratyaksh Rajput, the site in-charge of an under-construction house in Sushant Lok-1. He shot a video when he was asked to pay. He was informed that payment will have to be made for every entry of trucks with construction material. Rajpur complained to the local MCG councillor and with the intervention of MCG commissioner a case was registered. After this, the RWA members approached the high court challenging and appealed for quashing of the FIR. The RWA argued before the court that goods vehicles had started using the internal roads of the colony as thoroughfare leading to severe damage of the sewerage pipes, roads etc. The RWA claimed that the amount was imposed as a penalty for heavy vehicles (with over 10 tyres). Justice Manjari Nehru Kaul granted stay till further hearing on August 18. Sumit Bhatia, president of Sushant Lok RWA, said the FIR was a politically motivated move to harass innocent residents and some RWA members who are trying to control the wrong practices by builders. “The high court order further confirms that allegations framed under this FIR were baseless and have no ingredient of extortion as such rather for the protection of colony infrastructure, certain strict guidelines were issued for heavy vehicle entry. While the local police didn’t pay attention to the intention behind the case and blindly filed FIR,” said Bhatia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/hc-stays-action-on-sushant-lok-rwa-in-extortion-case/articleshow/77176291.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Jaipur||Jhalawar police crack Mishroli burglary case||Kota: Jhalawar police on Friday night cracked the eight-day old burglary case in Mishroli town of the district by arresting three people from a local tribal community. Jewellery and cash worth Rs 30 lakh were stolen from two houses on the night of July 16. Police recovered Rs 12.70 lakh cash and jewellery worth Rs 13 lakh from the accused, said a police official. One of the three accused is a wanted criminal of Khilchipur police station of Rajgarh district of Madhya Pradesh. The three accused were on Saturday produced before the court that remanded them in police custody for three days to recover the remaining loot. The three accused were identified as Lakhan Kanjar, 30, Rupa Kanjar, 45, and Rampal Kanjar, 30, all residents of Narayanpura Dera under Jhalawar Sadar police station, said Jhalawar SP Kiran Kang Sidhu. A police team led by ASP Rajesh Yadav, DSP Gopichand Meena and Sadar police station CI Sanjay Meena, on Friday night arrested three accused from Deoli Tiraha. The accused allegedly broke into the houses of Premchand Jain and Khiladilal Joshi in Mishroli town on the intervening night of July 16-17 and made away with cash and jewellery, the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jhalawar-police-crack-mishroli-burglary-case/articleshow/77175329.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Rajkot||17-year-old youth killed in accident||Rajkot: A 17-year-old youth was killed when the two-wheeler he was riding was rammed by a tanker from the rear on Saturday. Police said the incident occurred when the deceased, Darshan Parmar, was driving with his father Rajesh Parmar riding pillion. The duo were on their way to Madhapar Chowkadi. “When Darshan applied brakes to his two-wheeler, the tanker coming from behind, rammed it. Both the Darshan and his father were flung off the two-wheeler. Darshan’s head banged on the road and he was killed on the spot,” said police. Meanwhile, the police have launched a manhunt for the tanker driver who went absconding after the accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/17-year-old-youth-killed-in-accident/articleshow/77174344.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan Housing Board pins hope on coaching hub project to earn good revenue||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB) hopes to earn a revenue of Rs 416 crore from the ambitious Rs 231-crore coaching hub project proposed to be developed in Pratap Nagar. To streamline the coaching industry, the board has proposed that the hub centre will accommodate nearly 70,000 students. It will be developed on 68,000 square-metres in two phases. While phase-1 is likely to be completed in September 2022, phase-II will be developed by December 2023. The move to develop a dedicated coaching hub institute in the city has been welcomed by the industry as they had received a high court boot in past. Naveen Sharma, owner of a coaching institute said, “In the past, coaching institutes were harassed and accused of not following the safety norms. Now the government itself developing the space and renting or selling out to owners will be a relief.” Construction will be done on 40 % of the earmarked land and 60% land will remain open. As per the plan, there are eight education towers proposed in the project. Construction of five towers will be undertaken in phase-1 and the remaining three towers will be developed in phase-II. “Each building in the hub will be seven-storey with construction area of 1 lakh-square feet. “To avoid congestion, underground parking will be developed in each building,” he said. For students’ accommodation inside the hub, the RHB has proposed to develop four plots measuring 1,100 square metres. An auditorium with a seating capacity of 800 will also be developed. An RHB official said, “These institutes will be eco-friendly. It would have unique features including cycle track, food court and conference hall.” Officials claimed that the work was proposed to begin in July, however, the RHB is prepared before time. The encroachments from the area were also removed||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rhb-pins-hope-on-coaching-hub-project-to-earn-good-revenue/articleshow/77176285.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Agra||22 booked in Aligarh for violating govt orders and ‘offering prayer in mosque’||AGRA: Aligarh police on Friday booked 22 people on charges of violating prohibitory orders when they were found offering namaz in a group inside a mosque in Jawan area. The cleric of the mosque alleged that he was thrashed by the cops after being taken to the police station. The cleric claimed, “Police personnel reached the mosque on Friday and started abusing me, saying how dare I offer namaz in a group. They took me to Jawan police station where they beat me up.” Denying the allegations of the cleric, station house officer of Jawan police station Abhay Sharma told TOI that only an FIR was registered in the matter, but no one was arrested. A police patrol team was informed that a "gathering has been organised at the mosque" amid section 144 of CrPC (banning assembly of five persons or above) imposition in the area. They were booked under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease) and section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act at Jawan police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/22-booked-in-aligarh-for-violating-govt-orders-and-offering-prayer-in-mosque/articleshow/77175370.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Jaipur||Girl drowns in water tank||Kota: A 4-year-old girl, while playing on the premises of her maternal grandfather’s house in Sanakariya village under Gangdhar police station of Jhalawar district, fell into a water tank and drowned on Friday night. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/girl-drowns-in-water-tank/articleshow/77175323.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Puducherry||Puducherry holds legislative assembly under neem tree||PUDUCHERRY: For the first time in the history of the Union territory of Puducherry, a legislative assembly was convened in an open space under a neem tree. The assembly was held outside the main building as the assembly chamber was closed after being disinfected, after an MLA had tested positive for Covid. The Congress government must pass the budget in the assembly to meet the expenses from July 1 as the vote on account for Rs2,042 crore, which was passed in March to meet the expenses for three months, lapsed on June 30. The budget session, which commenced on July 20, was scheduled to resume at 10am on Saturday but was delayed after the chamber was disinfected and closed. The assembly secretariat initially decided to hold the budget session in the fourth floor of an adjoining new building but soon dropped the idea due to space constraints. Later, the secretariat decided to hold the session under the neem tree on the assembly premises. A shamiana was erected under the tree and temporary seating arrangements were made on the lines of the one in the assembly chamber. The session commenced at 1.30pm and the finance bill was passed following which speaker of the legislative assembly adjourned the House sine die. All India NR Congress (AINRC) MLA N S J Jayabal from Kadirgamam constituency had earlier tested positive for Covid-19. The first MLA in the Union territory to contract the infection, Jayabal, was admitted to a private medical college hospital. Jayabal had attended the ongoing budget session in the legislative assembly, which commenced on July 20. He attended the proceedings on July 20, 22 and 23. Chief minister V Narayanasamy, all five ministers and MLAs from the ruling and opposition parties participated in the assembly proceedings. All of them, assembly staff members and a section of mediapersons will undergo medical examinations for Covid-19 infection in batches from Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/pondy-holds-assembly-under-neem-tree/articleshow/77180070.cms||Bosco Dominique
July 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Puducherry holds legislative assembly under neem tree||PUDUCHERRY: For the first time in the history of the Union territory of Puducherry, a legislative assembly was convened in an open space under a neem tree. The assembly was held outside the main building as the assembly chamber was closed after being disinfected, after an MLA had tested positive for Covid. The Congress government must pass the budget in the assembly to meet the expenses from July 1 as the vote on account for Rs2,042 crore, which was passed in March to meet the expenses for three months, lapsed on June 30. The budget session, which commenced on July 20, was scheduled to resume at 10am on Saturday but was delayed after the chamber was disinfected and closed. The assembly secretariat initially decided to hold the budget session in the fourth floor of an adjoining new building but soon dropped the idea due to space constraints. Later, the secretariat decided to hold the session under the neem tree on the assembly premises. A shamiana was erected under the tree and temporary seating arrangements were made on the lines of the one in the assembly chamber. The session commenced at 1.30pm and the finance bill was passed following which speaker of the legislative assembly adjourned the House sine die. All India NR Congress (AINRC) MLA N S J Jayabal from Kadirgamam constituency had earlier tested positive for Covid-19. The first MLA in the Union territory to contract the infection, Jayabal, was admitted to a private medical college hospital. Jayabal had attended the ongoing budget session in the legislative assembly, which commenced on July 20. He attended the proceedings on July 20, 22 and 23. Chief minister V Narayanasamy, all five ministers and MLAs from the ruling and opposition parties participated in the assembly proceedings. All of them, assembly staff members and a section of mediapersons will undergo medical examinations for Covid-19 infection in batches from Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pondy-holds-assembly-under-neem-tree/articleshow/77175352.cms||Bosco Dominique
July 26, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: School goes online on Foundation Day||KOLKATA: Pandemic times are different, but they also bring people closer to each other. At other times when a school celebrated its Founder’s Day, perhaps only the present students, teachers and administration participated. But in times like this when a school is forced to celebrate online, its entire global community participates. This happened on Saturday, when St James’ School celebrated its 156th Founder’s Day. Alumni from across the world accepted the invitation and logged on. There was a shift in arrangements and a break of tradition, but that did not dampen the spirit of celebrations. For the past 155 years, the service was held at St James’ Church, but this year, the speakers spoke from different venues, which was converted into a video and streamed online following the timings of the previous years. Bishop Paritosh Canning spoke from St Paul’s Cathedral, principal of the school, T H Ireland, spoke from the school hall while the choir and teachers sang from their residences. At sharp 9am, when the live streaming happened, more than 3,000 students, alumni, past and present teachers and non-teaching staff watched the programme from across the world. Bishop Canning said the school made an indelible contribution to the city’s education scene for 155 years. He made references to online classes and various ways in which the school, parents and kids were handling the difficult times. “It was an emotional moment for many of us who are unable to participate in our school event at other times,” said Rishi Dhanuka from Singapore. Other city schools may also hold such celebrations online, like the La Martiniere schools that are turning 184 this September and St Thomas Schools that will turn 231 soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/school-goes-online-for-founders-day/articleshow/77175394.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
July 26, 2020||Jaipur||Schemes non-existent, 87,916 rural houses still incomplete||Jaipur: As per the data available with the rural development department, of the 4.87 lakh houses sanctioned under Indira Awas Yojana (IAY) from 2011-12 to 2015-16, building of 46,817 houses is yet to be completed and under CM-BPL houses scheme, of the 6.69 lakh houses sanctioned from 2011-12 to 2013-14, construction of 41,099 houses is still incomplete. While both the schemes are non-existent now, 13,239 houses under CM-BPL scheme and 14,287 houses under IAY are disputed. Appropriate action (even registering FIRs) will be taken against those beneficiaries who didn’t complete building their houses despite getting the sanctioned money, and also those who fled with the money without utilising the same to build houses. There are also some who used the money for other purposes (like repayment of bank loans), said an official. An order issued by ACS rural development and panchayati raj department Rajeshwar Singh directed the district collectors to complete building all the sanctioned houses under both the schemes by August 31. Under both the schemes, Rs 70,000 were allotted to each beneficiary to build houses. “Even though these two schemes are non-existent, building of houses under these schemes is incomplete even now. Both the schemes were discontinued about 5-7 years ago. FIR will be lodged against those who took the first instalment money and fled without building their houses. There are also some who took the second instalment of money and did not complete their houses. These beneficiaries will be motivated and pressurized to complete building houses. Some money has also been recovered from many defaulters,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/schemes-non-existent-87916-rural-houses-still-incomplete/articleshow/77175333.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Jaipur||Civil society groups urge Raj governor to hold special assembly session||Jaipur: The civil society groups have shot a letter to governor Kalraj Mishra urging him of holding a special session of the state assembly to clear the air over the status of the government on Saturday. The letter reads that they have sought advice from the constitutional experts to conclude that the governor is duty-bound to call a session on the advice of the state cabinet under Article 174. “If the governor feels that the government is in minority on the basis of facts, he/she can call the session for a floor test. He/she can neither refuse nor delay the assembly session if advised by the state cabinet,” reads the letter. If further reads the constitutional solution to the ongoing political crises is necessary for the state at a time when it is facing a pandemic. “The political stability and effective administration are required to emerge from the present situation. We hope the governor’s office will take the right decision as per the constitution,” reads the letter. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/civil-society-groups-urge-raj-governor-to-hold-special-assembly-session/articleshow/77176294.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: SCERT trims Class I-XII syllabus by 25%, experts term it unscientific||PUNE: The State Council of Education Research and Training on Saturday announced a 25% cut in the syllabus for students of Standard I to XII, strictly for the academic year 2020-21 as the schools are shut because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Workers’ movement, farmers’ suicides and unemployment are among the topics removed from the sociology textbook of Class XII. Most of the activity-based learning topics have been instructed to be done at home or marked as self-study. The changes were uploaded on www.maa.ac.in website on Saturday. Time-consuming, higher difficulty-level, self-learning, gives more information, for extra reading were the reasons given in front of the culled topics. Dinkar Patil, the director of the State Council of Education Research and Training (SCERT), said 25% syllabus had been cut from 22 subjects in classes I to VII, from 20 subjects in classes IX and X, and from 59 subjects in classes XI and XII, keeping the fundamentals of the syllabus intact. Prachi Sathe, the former chief coordinator of the textbooks committee, responsible for the books, called the culling process unscientific. Sathe said, “They have not mentioned the reason for deletion in many topics. In other cases, they have said ‘this topic is time-consuming, and the difficulty level is a bit high’, and given it for self-learning. If educationists themselves tell students that the difficulty level is high, and then ask them to learn, what will be the result?” Sathe said, “In English, they have omitted the lesson and taken the writing skills part. But the writing skill is based on the lesson. If they had to take out, the entire thing should have been taken out. English is much more than just grammar. All textbooks are prepared with a spiral conceptual mapping and by breaking this chain, students will find it hard to cope up in the successive class.” Questions have been raised on the 25% syllabus reduction claim, too. A subject expert, who did not wish to be named, said, “In some subjects, they have deleted entire chapters, while in others, they have hardly culled 7-8 pages from a 112-page book. How is this uniform 25% then? Moreover, this exercise of reduction was carried out by a few members and many members of the study group were kept in the dark. They should have at least asked us for suggestions on email.” Varsha Sarode, a senior member of the subject committees for history-political science-civics-sociology subjects said taking out an entire chapter was not possible in social studies subjects as a chapter is generally built on the previous chapter. “Hence, we have taken out only boxes, or very few subtopics from the books so that the essence of the books remains. Even these are not exempted but the students should self-study them,” said Sarode. State Council of Education Research and Training officials claimed that the revision of the syllabus was done by Balbharati. The revision committee, said officials at Balbharati, consisted of the subject committee chairman, subject committee members and academic officer. The study group was not involved in the revision, though. “Complete autonomy was given to the committee. The revision was supervised by the SCERT. We had only given some of our members for the purpose,” a senior official at Balbharati said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/scert-trims-class-i-xii-syllabus-by-25-experts-term-it-unscientific/articleshow/77175396.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: 5-year-old crushed under uncle’s car in Amreli district||RAJKOT: The joy of owning a new car has turned into a tragedy for Movaliya family in Amreli district. A five-year-old girl of the family died after accidentally being run over by the car driven by her uncle. The mishap occurred in Batvadevli village of Kukavav taluka of Amreli district on Friday. The victim girl succumbed to her injuries at Rajkot civil hospital on Saturday. According to police, the girl’s uncle Rippal Movaliya had purchased a second hand car. He was learning to drive the vehicle near his house when the mishap occurred. The Movaliya’s live in a joint family. The deceased girl’s father Nilesh told Rajkot police that his daughter Jinal was playing when his brother Rippal took the car in reverse and ran over the five-year-old girl. The girl who got severely injured due to the mishap was first taken to Jetpur from where she was referred to Rajkot civil hospital for further treatment. Rajkot police had registered the father’s complaint which has been forwarded to Vadiya police station in Amreli. Sources said cops will now formally register the FIR against the victim’s uncle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/five-yr-old-girl-run-over-by-car-her-uncle-had-just-bought/articleshow/77174400.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Agra||Agra police bust major sex racket, 12 arrested, city big-wigs booked||AGRA: In a major breakthrough against a widely prevalent sex racket in the city limits, Agra police busted a syndicate of private-owned farmhouse, guest house and hotels, who were running the network for several years. Police claimed some of the accused men are of high profile status, including a prominent politician. The politician, however, has dismissed it as an "attempt to frame him in a false case". According to police, FIR has been lodged by additional superintendent of police Saurabh Dixit, and the racket was being run at premier hotels, a guest house and a farmhouse of Sikandra police limits. After a raid at the politician’s farmhouse on Friday evening, police arrested 12 people, including three women of Kolkata. All were charged under the Immoral Trade (Prevention) Act, 1956 and Arms Act 1959. Police recovered some cash and country-made weapons after the raid. “During an investigation of alleged loot attempt which occurred on July 2 at Akbara Road, our team received an input on a sex racket being run in hotels and a farmhouse. A team led by ASP Saurabh Dixit then conducted a raid at a farmhouse and busted the syndicate,” Rohan Botre, the Agra city SP, said. “A total of 17 people have been booked, out of which a politician and other hotel owners and managers are on the run. But, they will be arrested soon. The modus operandi of the syndicate was that they would bring young women from Delhi, Kolkata or other places and run a sex racket on their commercial premises,” he added. Meanwhile, the politician told TOI, “Police are trying to frame me in a false case. None of the men or women involved in the sex racket were caught from my farmhouse, but were nabbed from a guest house.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-police-bust-major-sex-racket-12-arrested-city-big-wigs-booked/articleshow/77173120.cms||Arvind Chauhan
July 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rs 1,983 crore sanctioned to develop 3,623km rural roads||JAIPUR: ACS (PWD_ Veenu Gupta said the Centre had sanctioned Rs 1,983 crore for the development of 374 rural roads in Rajasthan as a part of the second batch under the third phase of Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY). As per the approval, Rs 1,937 crore will be spent on development of 3,623 km of roads and Rs 46 crore on 6 bridges. She said in the third phase of PMGSY, Rs 3,122 crore has been sanctioned for upgrading Rajasthan’s total roads covering 5,821 km. Moreover, with the cabinet’s decision to distribute Rs 1,000 each to 35 lakh poor families in view of the Covid situation and the food department opening the registration for distribution of ration to non-NFSA beneficiaries, the state government’s decision-making process appears to be slowly resuming amid the ongoing political crisis in the state. The social justice department has already transferred Rs 351 crore to the accounts of district collectors office and RISL account for distribution. While Rs 321 crore has been transferred to RISL for distribution of the money through DBT, the remaining Rs 30 crore has been transferred to the district collectors account. The food and civil supplies department had also issued an order to open the registration for distribution of the remaining foodgrains to the left out non-NFSA beneficiaries (belonging to 37 categories) in the state under Atmanirbhar Bharat scheme from Thursday. The registration will be done through e-mitra till August 3. However, a senior official in the rural development and panchayati raj department said, “The functioning of a department does get affected when there is no minister in-charge.” A large number of files pertaining to questions raised in the state assembly, transfer/postings and policy decisions are getting stacked up at the department in the absence of the minister.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-1983-crore-sanctioned-to-develop-3623-km-rural-roads/articleshow/77176295.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Bareilly||Police on hunt for man who impersonated as principal secretary of sugarcane dept||PILIBHIT: The police are on a search for an unidentified man who allegedly impersonated as the principal secretary of sugarcane and sugar industry and sought amazon gift vouchers from the district cane officer (DCO) Jitendra Kumar Mishra in Pilibhit. The fraudster put his demand by sending a letter to the DCO on his official email ID on Friday afternoon. The police action was taken into the matter following a written complaint filed by Mishra on Saturday. Mishra said he was informed by the DCOs of other districts who received similar mails regarding the gift coupons and they also took up the matter with police. SHO of Pilibhit Kotwali police station Shrikant Dwivedi said, “An FIR has been lodged against the fraudster under section 420 (cheating and dishonesty), 507 (criminal intimidation by anonymous communication) of the Indian Penal Code and section 66 F (committing or conspiring to commit cyber terrorism) of the Information Technology Act, 2000.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/police-on-hunt-for-man-who-impersonated-as-principal-secretary-of-sugarcane-dept/articleshow/77171220.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Delhi||Active Covid-19 cases down to less than 10% in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded 1,142 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, pushing the city’s case load to almost 1.3 lakh, while the death toll jumped to 3,806. Twenty-nine fatalities have been recorded in the last 24 hours, the state health department said. The total number of cases has climbed to 1,29,531. On June 20, the fresh cases count had dipped to 954, and went up the next day to 1,349. Since Tuesday, the fresh cases recorded have been in excess of 1,000. Read AlsoCovid-19: High percentage of false negatives seeds suspicions about rapid antigen testsNEW DELHI: A moderate to very high percentage of negative results in antigen tests for Covid-19 are turning out to be positive in RT-PCR testing, making states like Maharashtra treat initial positivity rates with increasing suspicion and prompting others like Tamil Nadu to rely exclusively on theActive cases in the capital have reduced to 12,657, which is 9.77% of the total number of cases reported till date. “Delhi has reached 8th position in terms of no of active cases. Situation was bad till a few days back. We were at 2nd position,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted. He, however, added there was no room for complacency. “Take precautions and stay safe,” Kejriwal wrote. Total 1.13 lakh Covid-19 patients have recovered from the disease, according to the latest data shared by the government. Of the 12,657 active cases, 7,339 (58%) are under home isolation, 904 (7%) are recuperating in Covid care centres and 137 (1%) are under isolation at Covid health centres. Total 3,135 (25%) patients are admitted in various hospitals. There are 15,475 beds for Covid -19 patients in various public and private hospitals across the state. Of them, the government said, 12340 (78%) are lying vacant.Kejriwal on Saturday said the two crore people of the city, his government and the Centre have together attained victory in controlling Covid-19 but the fight is not over yet. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Speaking virtually at the inauguration of 450-bed Delhi government hospital in Burari, he said Covid-related parameters have improved in Delhi in the last one month. “The two crore Delhi people, Delhi government and the Centre have together attained victory over corona but it would not be correct to say that the fight is over,” he said. The CM pointed out that in the past one month, cases of Covid-19 have gone down, deaths have reduced, recovery rate has increased and positivity ratio has lowered. “This is a result of the hard work of all the people. I want to congratulate all the doctors, nurses, paramedic staff, officials, and whoever has worked hard to achieve this goal,” he said. Watch Covid-19: Active cases down to less than 10% in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/active-cases-down-to-less-than-10-in-capital/articleshow/77176298.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Meerut||UP: Armed robbers break into poultry farmer, villagers retaliate; one shot dead||MUZAFFARNAGAR: A gang of armed robbers on Saturday broke into the poultry farm of one Ranjit Singh in Nangla Bujurg farm in Bhopa region of Muzaffarnagar only to be counter attacked by the owner’s son and villagers. A gunfight ensued and one robber was shot dead. Investigations are on to identify the robber. Police team rushed to the spot after getting the information to nab the culprits who managed to escape. Police have sent the body for postmortem and an investigation is on in the matter. Sources said a group of men tried to enter poultry farm of one Ranjit Singh but his son Guru Singh shouted for help and a gunfight ensued between villagers and the robbers in which one of the robbers was shot dead. Police have recovered a country-made pistol, a double-barrel gun, a bullet and a knife from the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/armed-robbers-break-into-poultry-farmervillagers-retaliate-one-shot-dead/articleshow/77175407.cms||Mohd Dilshad
July 26, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Med help arrives, from 2,000 km away in Thane||KOLKATA: A textile trader from Mumbai, who started disseminating information about the availability of Covid-19 drugs to residents of Thane, has also turned into the go-to person for many patients in Kolkata, 2026.5km away. Every day, Deep Shah receives hundreds of calls, many of them from Kolkata, seeking help to procure medicines for Covid-19 patients. His own helplessness in not being able to get a Covid medicine during the pandemic apparently inspired Shah to look out for others. “I was hunting for a medicine for my friend’s aunt and did not know any chemist or druggist at that time. Doctors had prescribed Remdesivir and it wasn’t available in any nearby pharmacy. As I desperately looked for the medicine, I wished I could turn to someone for guidance,” Shah said over phone. “Time is precious in this pandemic. If a patient gets medicines late, his/her chance of survival gets lower.” While visiting the hospital where the friend’s aunt was being treated, Shah came in touch with a few stockists and distributors, apart from some doctors who were ready to help those in need. “I composed a message on Whatsapp and urged people to contact me in case they were looking for medicines for people contracting the novel coronavirus,” he said. In a few days, he started receiving calls from strangers in Thane, asking for numbers and addresses of medicine distributors. Soon, he started getting SOSes from Mumbai and subsequently, districts of Maharashtra and Gujarat. “When I got a call from Bengal, I was surprised. But I decided to help anyway,” he said. Now, Shah said, he got around 70-80 calls from Bengal every day, many of them in the dead of night. “Once, a person from Bengal called me up, desperately looking for a source to procure medicines. Sitting in Mumbai, I could not do much for him that night. I feel there should be some group or any citizens’ initiative in Kolkata to help such people,” he said. Shah daily connects with stockists, distributors, doctors, manufacturers in Mumbai and keeps a tab on the availability of medicines, like Remdesivir and Tocilizumab. “Some stockists now even know me by name,” Shah said. Shah’s effort has not gone unnoticed. Bhanushali Samaj in Thane — an association of Jains — has joined hands with him. Chintan Chhaganlal Chandra, a member of the Samaj, who has volunteered to fight Covid-19, said, “I did not know him but got connected when we were looking for medicines. Ever since, we have been helping each other to provide information about medicines to whoever needs it.” Read this story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/med-help-arrives-from-2k-km-away-in-thane/articleshow/77175401.cms||Rohit Khanna
July 26, 2020||Jaipur||12,000HP locomotive carries out successful maiden run||Jaipur: North Western Railway (NWR) on Friday carried out the maiden trial run of WAG12B (12000 HP) locomotive on the electric route on Rewari-Ringas-Phulera section. The locomotive, manufactured under the ‘Make in India’ initiative, is specially designed for freight trains and has extra loading capacity and speed. NWR authorities said the locomotive attached with a good trains started from Rewari station and covered its journey up to Phulera. “It first reached at Patli station on Delhi section and later arrived at Rewari and further covered its journey via Ringas to Phulera,” said Abhay Sharma, chief public relations officer, NWR.  “It is powerful and is capable of high speed and is significant addition to the Indian Railways network. As we are aiming at increasing freight movement across the country including in our zone, this would be the best choice,” said a senior officer of NWR. This locomotive has just double loading power than WAG-9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/12000hp-locomotive-carries-out-successful-maiden-run/articleshow/77175365.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Safe, pocket-friendly masks by IIT-Kharagpur startup||KOLKATA: How sure are you of the level of protection that your mask offers? A startup incubated at IIT Kharagpur has designed a mask, that will not only bear the stamp of protection but is also pocket-friendly. It’s a washable, reusable, three-layered mask made of a non-woven material with a recommended porosity of 25-25 GSM to provide at least 80% protection, said researchers who designed it. At Rs 10 per mask, the institute hopes to reach out to schoolchildren and the underprivileged. “One can just soak the mask in soap water and use it multiple times,” said Satyabrata Ghosh, a research associate of the biotechnology department, who led the project at the startup, Anigiene Technical Textiles. “We will soon start using banana fibre, which are biodegradable. With millions of masks being discarded daily, this is important,” Ghosh explained. About 1 lakh masks are being produced a month now. But new machines are being installed to augment production. The startup is in the process to seek certification from Ahmedabad Textile Industry’s Research Association. For now, Kendriya Bhandar, a co-operative society by the Centre will stock them. “I am happy that researchers contributed to the country’s safety,” said IIT Kgp director V K Tewari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/safe-pocket-friendly-masks-by-iit-startup/articleshow/77175405.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
July 26, 2020||Bareilly||With families opposed to their marriage, love birds, both cousins, end their lives||BAREILLY: In what appears to be a “suicide pact”, love birds — cousins — gave up to the social norms and allegedly ended their lives by hanging. A 21-year-old boy was in a relationship with his 18-year-old cousin, but as their parents were opposed to their marriage, they “eloped” on Friday night only to be found hanging from a tree the next morning in Pankhakheda village of Madnapur block in Shahjahanpur. The bodies were sent for autopsy. Police said the couple —both college students — was in a relationship for the past few years, but since the boy was the son of the girl’s maternal uncle, both families were against their marriage. As the boy’s father was planning to marry his son off somewhere else, an argument ensued between them on Friday afternoon and the boy left home, said police, adding that when the family started looking for him, they came to know in the evening that the girl, too, was missing. Additional superintendent of police (city) Sanjay Kumar said, “Prima facie investigation suggests the couple ended their lives because their parents were against their marriage, as they are relatives. Besides, we have, so far, not come across anything suspicious that could suggest a foul play. We have recorded the statements of family members.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/with-families-opposed-to-their-marriage-love-birds-both-cousins-end-their-lives/articleshow/77173140.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 26, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Vehicle lifting gang busted, 2 arrested with 23 bikes, 2 four-wheelers||JAIPUR: Solving a case in which two unknown persons decamped with a vehicle on the pretext of a test ride, Kalwar police on Thursday busted the gang and seized 23 bikes and two jeeps from their possession. Police stated that the gang was mostly operating in Jaipur police district (West). DCP (West) Pradeep Mohan Sharma said, “Almost 12 days ago we got a complaint that two persons contacted one Harphool Singh, a native of Sundariyawas village under Kalwar police station area and wished to purchase his jeep. They requested for a test ride to which the owner of the vehicle agreed. And the accused decamped with the jeep.” While solving the mystery, police collected information and also got some inputs from technical surveillance. “We arrested two accused — Madan Kadva and Raju Gurjar — both residents of Mundiaramsar village in Bhankrota. They have confessed in the primary interrogation that they were into vehicle lifting from Kardhani, Sadar, Karni Vihar, Harmada, Kalwad, Jhotwara, Shastrinagar and Muhana police station areas of the city. They had even done similar crime at many villages of Jaipur Rural district. Two four-wheelers and 23 bikes have been seized from the possession of the accused,” said a senior officer. Police said they will also investigate if the gang directly approaches the buyers and later decamp with vehicles or they have also mastered in breaking the lock and lift the vehicle. “It appears that this is a new modus operandi as in lieu of test drive they flee with the vehicle. We are interrogating them to get finer details into the case,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/vehicle-lifting-gang-busted-2-arrested-with-23-bikes-2-four-wheelers/articleshow/77176297.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Agra||Former gram pradhan gored to death by cattle||Roop Kumar, former gram pradhan of Jagtupura village under Agra's Mansukhpura police limit, was gored to death by a stray cattle on Saturday. According to local villagers, the victim was fencing his farm field with barbed wire when he was attacked by cattle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/former-gram-pradhan-gored-to-death-by-cattle/articleshow/77173138.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Pune||Djembe takes 2 pals from Pune to Italy & Singapore||Almost always, they get the crowd in Pune, Mumbai, Goa, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad and elsewhere on their feet. Their mastery over djembe, an African drum, and the tabla, keyboard, guitar and the piano have won them plaudits in Italy and Singapore. Meet Kharadi residents Dinesh Patole and Nilesh Gaikwad, crowd pullers at corporate events and in social gatherings, who sleep, drink and breathe music. Till a few years ago, they used to wash cars at a garage near Alankar Talkies for a living. Both did not have the means to study much. While Patole has studied up to standard XII, Gaikwad discontinued after standard VIII. “Without music I would still be working in a garage,” Patole said. He first tasted success playing the djembe at an inter-college event. Patole could neither afford a djembe nor the tuition fees for drum lessons. He picked up the skills watching others play. Meanwhile, he started learning the tabla from a teacher at whose house he worked in lieu of his tuition fees. He started giving tuitions to children. Meanwhile, he started learning to play the guitar from a friend and started taking lessons in drums and tumba. One of his friends used to pay the fees for his drums' classes. "Slowly, I started playing different instruments, such as kanjira, keyboard and tasha. I can play 25 instruments,” he said. After working throughout the day in a garage, he practised in the evenings. Gaikwad, who used to work in the same garage, also started learning djembe and keyboard from Patole. One day, he uploaded a video of him playing on Facebook. "A singer from Pune contacted me and I started performing with him,” he said. At one show, Kapil Chhajed, a banker, spotted him. "He suggested that we should start a drum circle, called Dhunn, together.," said Patole. "Our journey started in 2018 with just 10 drums. We held our first show at Wadgaonsheri for underprivileged kids,” he said. Patole received an invite to participate in a campaign for The Junkyard Project of MTV. "I received a call from Fiddlecraft, a band, to perform for Kerala's Kappa TV." In 2019, they got an opportunity to perform at Taj, Mumbai. They also performed in Goa, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad, Bengaluru as well as in Pune. "We have done over 200 shows since 2018," said Chhajed. Last November, they were invited to share their experience at a TEDx talk at VIT College, Pune. During the lockdown, they performed virtual shows for some people in Italy and Singapore. Patole now has four persons in his group. "All of them could not continue their studies for want of money, but they had an ear for music. I have taught them to play various instruments. They now perform with us," he said. As for the future, they have decided to teach drums to underprivileged kids. "Once they are ready, we will take them on our tour and give them a platform to play," said Chhajed. Watch From washing cars to performing on stage: Success that is music to ears||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/djembe-takes-2-pals-from-pune-to-italy-singapore/articleshow/77175410.cms||Avijit Chatterjee
July 26, 2020||Pune||Helmetless biker dies after crash on Pune-Mumbai expressway||PUNE: A 30-year-old man on Friday died of head injuries from an accident on the Pune-Mumbai expressway on July 20. Police said the deceased, Arjun Dadu Gaikwad — a resident of Ozarde village — was not wearing a helmet and was riding on the wrong side of the expressway towards Urse, when his motorcycle skid. Gaikwad was employed as a warden at Urse toll plaza. Times ViewThe death of a biker after an accident on the Pune-Mumbai expressway yet again points to the scant regard for road rules. The victim trespassed into the speed corridor despite two-wheelers not being allowed to ply on it. His desperate act of riding on the wrong side of the expressway could have cost more lives had his two-wheeler crashed into some other vehicle. While motorists should act responsibly, the Highway Safety Patrol and other divisions of police should ensure that two-wheeler riders don’t infringe into the expressway, causing accidents and loss of lives.On Friday, the Talegaon Dabhade police registered a case under charges of rash and negligent driving. Two- and three-wheelers are banned on the expressway, but residents of villages along the high-speed corridor blatantly violate this rule. According to police, the villagers enter the expressway through gaps in the compound walls, railing and iron mesh separators. A senior Highway Safety Patrol officer said despite repeated action and appeals, local villagers continue to risk their and others’ lives by indulging in such rash actions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/helmetless-biker-dies-after-crash-on-expressway/articleshow/77175439.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu Covid-19 count tops 2 lakh, record 6,988 new cases in 24 hours||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid tally surged past two lakh on Saturday with fresh cases reported at just 12 short of 7,000, the highest so far, and 89 deaths pushing the toll to 3,409. The silver lining: Active cases in the state stood at 52,273, which accounts for 25% of the total cases compared to 42% on July 1. However, they have been increasing all week from 50,294 on July 19. While Chennai numbers may have stabilized, epidemiologists and virologists said poor disease surveillance and enforcement of safety measures such as mask wearing and social distancing in the districts have led to the surge in numbers. On Saturday, Chennai accounted for 19% of the fresh cases with 1,329 reported positive, while several districts such as Virudhunagar, Madurai, Tuticorin, Tirunelveli and Tuticorin have recorded a steady rise in cases over the week. With 3,649 new cases, the 11 districts in the north continue to reported the highest number of cases in the state at 3,647. Chennai’s three neighbours --Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur -- together reported 1,276 cases. Though their total positive cases have reduced from 24,546 on July 20 to 19,955 on Saturday, their active cases increased from 8,193 on Monday to 9,015 on Saturday. ‘Rise in cases in districts due to weak disease surveillance’North Tamil Nadu now has 30,247 active cases, including 13,923 in Chennai. Virologist Dr T Jacob John said while Chennai might have crossed the peak, the infection will continue to spread in rural areas and communities due to poor adherence to mask wearing and physical distancing. “The best way to slow down the spread is mask wearing. Government is only recommending mask wearing but is not enforcing it strictly. People still don’t understand that wearing it won’t just protect them but also their loved ones. Probably the chief minister could speak on television and tell people its importance,” he added. T Sundararaman, public health expert and former dean of the school of health systems studies, TISS, too said the rise in cases in the districts was due to weak disease surveillance and poor participation of the public in safety measures. “Every village should have started reporting fever clusters in the initial stage of the outbreak, so you could catch cases early and do contact tracing. Unfortunately, fever surveys and fever clinics are being done after it passed the boundary. But it is never too late. We have to get the entire strategy going but the point is people are not learning from the experiences in other places,” he added. After north TN, the 10 southern districts reported the most new cases at 2,079, including 376 in Virudhunagar, 317 in Tuticorin and 301 in Madurai. The region now has 14,298 active cases. Virudhunagar, which had less than 300 total cases on June 24, now has 2,357 active cases The eight districts in central region reported 637 cases followed by western region with 607. The two regions now have 3,753 and 3,676 active cases. Trichy, with 199 fresh cases, has 1,136 active cases and Coimbatore, with 270 new cases, has 1,373 active cases. Chennai reported 20 deaths followed by nine each in Madurai and Virudhunagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tn-virus-count-tops-2-lakh-record-6988-new-cases-in-24-hrs/articleshow/77176596.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Goa||Nagpanchami, a chord linking all to eternity||Keri: Nagpanchami is celebrated with diverse traditions and rituals in Goa. People worship idols of cobra made up of clay, kneaded flour and metal. However, in Mencurem village, a joint family worships cobra idol made up of clay drawn from ant-hills. In Goa, ant-hills which are locally known as Roin or Varul are considered sacred and sometimes worshipped in the forms of goddesses such as Santer, Bhumka and Mauli. In many areas of our country, ant-hill is considered as the symbolic representation of feminine power and the cobra as masculine power. Some believe that for procreation of snakes, ant-hill forms an important part. The Naik family of Madhlawada, Mencurem, worships the idol made up of ant-hill clay. Speaking to TOI, 65-year-old Jagannath Navaso Naik said, “Since generations, we have been following this tradition. A day before Nagpanchami, we collect the ant-hill clay and on the day of festival, we shape the idol. We don’t apply any paint to it.” Shubhada Chari, a folk researcher from Sal in Bicholim said, “Worshipping clay idols and offering seasonal flowers and leaves to it throw light on the eco-friendly traditions followed by the family.” In some parts of the state, there is a tradition of offering milk, flowers and applying sandal paste to the ant-hill on the festive day. They believe that cobra resides in the ant-hill and will bless their family. In Goa and Konkan, Bhairav and Ravalnath are the folk deities worshipped and believed to be linked to cobra. In southern India, cobra is considered as the child endowing deity and ant-hill is considered as the incarnation of goddess Renuka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nagpanchami-a-chord-linking-all-to-eternity/articleshow/77176313.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
July 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Editor arrested for revealing identity of minor rape survivor||Coimbatore: The rural police on Saturday arrested Ramesh of Velandipalayam, editor of vernacular daily Seithi Saaral, for revealing the identity of a minor rape survivor..On July 13, the Pollachi all-woman police registered a case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 against S Babu, 26, of Zamin Uthukuli near Pollachi for raping and impregnating a minor girl. He also faces five assault cases. Babu, who was married to the girl, was booked under Section 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage etc.,) of the Indian Penal Code, sections 5 (l), (j) (ii) read with 6 of the Pocso Act and Section 9 of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006. Police arrested him and remanded him in judicial custody.A news article published in Seithi Saaral on July 15 revealed the identity of the minor girl and her family.The girl’s father was granted permission by the district Mahila court to file a complaint against the editor of the daily and a case was registered against Ramesh under sections 23 (1) (no person shall make any report or present comments on any child from any form of media or studio or photographic facilities without having complete and authentic information, which may have the effect of lowering his reputation or infringing upon his privacy), 23 (4) (punishment for making a report on a child) and 74 ( no report in any newspaper, magazine, news-sheet or audio-visual media or other forms of communication regarding any inquiry or investigation or judicial procedure, shall disclose the name, address or school or any other particular, which may lead to the identification of a child in conflict with the law or a child in need of care and protection or a child victim or witness of a crime) of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act. Ramesh was arrested on Saturday. However, he was granted bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/editor-arrested-for-revealing-identity-of-minor-rape-survivor/articleshow/77175417.cms||A Subburaj
July 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Dug-up roads throw life out of gear in RS Puram||Coimbatore: RS Puram, one of the prime residential and commercial areas in the city, has become almost unliveable and unmotorable as the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation and the city corporation have dug up roads for laying electricity cables and water pipelines for the 24x7 water supply scheme, respectively.As a result, DB Road in the area, which connects residents in the western parts of the city easily to the central and northern parts, has now been narrowed down to less than 15ft wide from 40ft. While one side has been covered, the job wasn’t done properly.The bad condition of the roads has affected the business establishments in the locality. “There is a sharp drop in the number of customers,” says an employee of Ayyar and Co bakery. “It is mainly because there is no space to park vehicles. Even walking on the stretch isn’t easy.”The area boasts of three major footwear, clothes and bakery outlets. According to them, the business had begun dropping even before the lockdown. “They had dug up the road in front of our shops more than three months ago,” said a staffer of Metro Shoes. The civic body had dug a 10ft-deep pit outside the building complex to connect the feeder pipeline to the shops’ water pipeline.“Since we are not essential goods, people who think of shopping with us drop their plans when they realise the parking woes. During rain, we can’t even walk into our shops,” said an employee of Woodlands.As the roadside area that the civic body had earlier earmarked for parking has been dug up, a regular customer at Aroma Bakes said, vehicles were now parking on the middle of the road, causing traffic jam daily.The residents of Ramalingam Road, Mecricar Road, Sambandhan Road and Ramachandran Road say they could not even cross DB Road to reach Mettupalayam Road and the flyover. “The road is just 15ft wide now and workers have parked an earthmover there. Now, most of us drive all the way to TV Samy Road or Cowley Brown Road and then head to DB Road. Initially, they destroyed all the pocket roads. Now, they are damaging the main roads,” said K Radhakrishnan, a resident of Father Roundy Street.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dug-up-roads-throw-life-out-of-gear-in-rs-puram/articleshow/77175411.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Jaipur||BJP seeks action on Congress from governor Kalraj Mishra||JAIPUR: A day after Congress MLAs staged a protest inside Raj Bhavan, BJP on Saturday submitted a memorandum to governor Kalraj Mishra seeking appropriate action based on the Constitution. A team of 15 BJP leaders leader headed by state president Satish Poonia held a meeting with Mishra and handed over a three-point memorandum. Poonia compared Friday’s incident akin to terrorising the governor house, the highest constitutional authority in the state. “Ashok Gehlot provoked his MLAs and his party workers to surround the governor house. Along with expressing his inability to provide any protection in case people surround governor, which can be termed as a criminal offence, and those involved in it can be booked under the IPC Section 124,” Poonia told the governor. The second case raised by BJP was the attempt by the Congress to force the governor to hold a special assembly session. The official statement by the BJP reads that the manner in which Gehlot took a contingent of his MLAs to the governor house to exert pressure on him to take a constitutional decision is again an attempt to erode the constitutional set up of the country. BJP also sought action on the statewide protest by the Congress against the BJP, a clear violation of the central government guidelines related to the coronavirus. “Congress workers have violated all the guidelines like social distancing, not wearing face masks and assembling in more than required numbers while staging a protest in every district. The callousness of the Congress can cost dearly to the citizens in the state,” said Poonia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-seeks-action-on-cong-from-guv-mishra/articleshow/77176299.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: 23-year-old cries harassment outside mall||KOLKATA: A 23-year-old gay man has lodged a complaint with the Bidhannagar Police commissioner alleging that he had been tortured and harassed by cops in civil clothes outside City Centre II and was forced to spend a night at the Narayanpur police station last Monday. He also claimed that he was molested, beaten up and verbally abused throughout the night by the cops. Acting on the man’s complaint, police have started an inquiry. An officer, however, said that a few days ago, Narayanpur police had busted a sex racket involving women and cross-dressers. “The youth was stopped for questioning to find out if he was involved with the gang. I have no information of cops assaulting him,” he said. The youth alleged that on July 20, he was walking back home from a friend’s house around 9pm when he was stopped by a group of plainclothesmen near the shopping mall and started abusing him. “I am used to taunts from the society and thus, I resisted. This angered the men and one of them slapped me. Another held me by my hair and started pulling me towards his bike. I screamed for help and when people came rushing in, they said I was a thief,” said the final-year political science student. “The cops then called for a police car and took me to the police station where I was further abused,” he said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect hir privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/23-yr-old-cries-harassment-outside-mall/articleshow/77175413.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Puducherry||Tamil Nadu Covid-19 count tops 2 lakh, record 6,988 new cases in 24 hours||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid tally surged past two lakh on Saturday with fresh cases reported at just 12 short of 7,000, the highest so far, and 89 deaths pushing the toll to 3,409. The silver lining: Active cases in the state stood at 52,273, which accounts for 25% of the total cases compared to 42% on July 1. However, they have been increasing all week from 50,294 on July 19. While Chennai numbers may have stabilized, epidemiologists and virologists said poor disease surveillance and enforcement of safety measures such as mask wearing and social distancing in the districts have led to the surge in numbers. On Saturday, Chennai accounted for 19% of the fresh cases with 1,329 reported positive, while several districts such as Virudhunagar, Madurai, Tuticorin, Tirunelveli and Tuticorin have recorded a steady rise in cases over the week. With 3,649 new cases, the 11 districts in the north continue to reported the highest number of cases in the state at 3,647. Chennai’s three neighbours --Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur -- together reported 1,276 cases. Though their total positive cases have reduced from 24,546 on July 20 to 19,955 on Saturday, their active cases increased from 8,193 on Monday to 9,015 on Saturday. ‘Rise in cases in districts due to weak disease surveillance’North Tamil Nadu now has 30,247 active cases, including 13,923 in Chennai. Virologist Dr T Jacob John said while Chennai might have crossed the peak, the infection will continue to spread in rural areas and communities due to poor adherence to mask wearing and physical distancing. “The best way to slow down the spread is mask wearing. Government is only recommending mask wearing but is not enforcing it strictly. People still don’t understand that wearing it won’t just protect them but also their loved ones. Probably the chief minister could speak on television and tell people its importance,” he added. T Sundararaman, public health expert and former dean of the school of health systems studies, TISS, too said the rise in cases in the districts was due to weak disease surveillance and poor participation of the public in safety measures. “Every village should have started reporting fever clusters in the initial stage of the outbreak, so you could catch cases early and do contact tracing. Unfortunately, fever surveys and fever clinics are being done after it passed the boundary. But it is never too late. We have to get the entire strategy going but the point is people are not learning from the experiences in other places,” he added. After north TN, the 10 southern districts reported the most new cases at 2,079, including 376 in Virudhunagar, 317 in Tuticorin and 301 in Madurai. The region now has 14,298 active cases. Virudhunagar, which had less than 300 total cases on June 24, now has 2,357 active cases The eight districts in central region reported 637 cases followed by western region with 607. The two regions now have 3,753 and 3,676 active cases. Trichy, with 199 fresh cases, has 1,136 active cases and Coimbatore, with 270 new cases, has 1,373 active cases. Chennai reported 20 deaths followed by nine each in Madurai and Virudhunagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/tn-virus-count-tops-2-lakh-record-6988-new-cases-in-24-hrs/articleshow/77176592.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu Covid-19 count tops 2 lakh, record 6,988 new cases in 24 hours||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid tally surged past two lakh on Saturday with fresh cases reported at just 12 short of 7,000, the highest so far, and 89 deaths pushing the toll to 3,409. The silver lining: Active cases in the state stood at 52,273, which accounts for 25% of the total cases compared to 42% on July 1. However, they have been increasing all week from 50,294 on July 19. While Chennai numbers may have stabilized, epidemiologists and virologists said poor disease surveillance and enforcement of safety measures such as mask wearing and social distancing in the districts have led to the surge in numbers. On Saturday, Chennai accounted for 19% of the fresh cases with 1,329 reported positive, while several districts such as Virudhunagar, Madurai, Tuticorin, Tirunelveli and Tuticorin have recorded a steady rise in cases over the week. With 3,649 new cases, the 11 districts in the north continue to reported the highest number of cases in the state at 3,647. Chennai’s three neighbours --Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur -- together reported 1,276 cases. Though their total positive cases have reduced from 24,546 on July 20 to 19,955 on Saturday, their active cases increased from 8,193 on Monday to 9,015 on Saturday. ‘Rise in cases in districts due to weak disease surveillance’North Tamil Nadu now has 30,247 active cases, including 13,923 in Chennai. Virologist Dr T Jacob John said while Chennai might have crossed the peak, the infection will continue to spread in rural areas and communities due to poor adherence to mask wearing and physical distancing. “The best way to slow down the spread is mask wearing. Government is only recommending mask wearing but is not enforcing it strictly. People still don’t understand that wearing it won’t just protect them but also their loved ones. Probably the chief minister could speak on television and tell people its importance,” he added. T Sundararaman, public health expert and former dean of the school of health systems studies, TISS, too said the rise in cases in the districts was due to weak disease surveillance and poor participation of the public in safety measures. “Every village should have started reporting fever clusters in the initial stage of the outbreak, so you could catch cases early and do contact tracing. Unfortunately, fever surveys and fever clinics are being done after it passed the boundary. But it is never too late. We have to get the entire strategy going but the point is people are not learning from the experiences in other places,” he added. After north TN, the 10 southern districts reported the most new cases at 2,079, including 376 in Virudhunagar, 317 in Tuticorin and 301 in Madurai. The region now has 14,298 active cases. Virudhunagar, which had less than 300 total cases on June 24, now has 2,357 active cases The eight districts in central region reported 637 cases followed by western region with 607. The two regions now have 3,753 and 3,676 active cases. Trichy, with 199 fresh cases, has 1,136 active cases and Coimbatore, with 270 new cases, has 1,373 active cases. Chennai reported 20 deaths followed by nine each in Madurai and Virudhunagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tn-virus-count-tops-2-lakh-record-6988-new-cases-in-24-hrs/articleshow/77176593.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu Covid-19 count tops 2 lakh, record 6,988 new cases in 24 hours||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid tally surged past two lakh on Saturday with fresh cases reported at just 12 short of 7,000, the highest so far, and 89 deaths pushing the toll to 3,409. The silver lining: Active cases in the state stood at 52,273, which accounts for 25% of the total cases compared to 42% on July 1. However, they have been increasing all week from 50,294 on July 19. While Chennai numbers may have stabilized, epidemiologists and virologists said poor disease surveillance and enforcement of safety measures such as mask wearing and social distancing in the districts have led to the surge in numbers. On Saturday, Chennai accounted for 19% of the fresh cases with 1,329 reported positive, while several districts such as Virudhunagar, Madurai, Tuticorin, Tirunelveli and Tuticorin have recorded a steady rise in cases over the week. With 3,649 new cases, the 11 districts in the north continue to reported the highest number of cases in the state at 3,647. Chennai’s three neighbours --Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur -- together reported 1,276 cases. Though their total positive cases have reduced from 24,546 on July 20 to 19,955 on Saturday, their active cases increased from 8,193 on Monday to 9,015 on Saturday. ‘Rise in cases in districts due to weak disease surveillance’North Tamil Nadu now has 30,247 active cases, including 13,923 in Chennai. Virologist Dr T Jacob John said while Chennai might have crossed the peak, the infection will continue to spread in rural areas and communities due to poor adherence to mask wearing and physical distancing. “The best way to slow down the spread is mask wearing. Government is only recommending mask wearing but is not enforcing it strictly. People still don’t understand that wearing it won’t just protect them but also their loved ones. Probably the chief minister could speak on television and tell people its importance,” he added. T Sundararaman, public health expert and former dean of the school of health systems studies, TISS, too said the rise in cases in the districts was due to weak disease surveillance and poor participation of the public in safety measures. “Every village should have started reporting fever clusters in the initial stage of the outbreak, so you could catch cases early and do contact tracing. Unfortunately, fever surveys and fever clinics are being done after it passed the boundary. But it is never too late. We have to get the entire strategy going but the point is people are not learning from the experiences in other places,” he added. After north TN, the 10 southern districts reported the most new cases at 2,079, including 376 in Virudhunagar, 317 in Tuticorin and 301 in Madurai. The region now has 14,298 active cases. Virudhunagar, which had less than 300 total cases on June 24, now has 2,357 active cases The eight districts in central region reported 637 cases followed by western region with 607. The two regions now have 3,753 and 3,676 active cases. Trichy, with 199 fresh cases, has 1,136 active cases and Coimbatore, with 270 new cases, has 1,373 active cases. Chennai reported 20 deaths followed by nine each in Madurai and Virudhunagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tn-virus-count-tops-2-lakh-record-6988-new-cases-in-24-hrs/articleshow/77176594.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu Covid-19 count tops 2 lakh, record 6,988 new cases in 24 hours||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid tally surged past two lakh on Saturday with fresh cases reported at just 12 short of 7,000, the highest so far, and 89 deaths pushing the toll to 3,409. The silver lining: Active cases in the state stood at 52,273, which accounts for 25% of the total cases compared to 42% on July 1. However, they have been increasing all week from 50,294 on July 19. While Chennai numbers may have stabilized, epidemiologists and virologists said poor disease surveillance and enforcement of safety measures such as mask wearing and social distancing in the districts have led to the surge in numbers. On Saturday, Chennai accounted for 19% of the fresh cases with 1,329 reported positive, while several districts such as Virudhunagar, Madurai, Tuticorin, Tirunelveli and Tuticorin have recorded a steady rise in cases over the week. With 3,649 new cases, the 11 districts in the north continue to reported the highest number of cases in the state at 3,647. Chennai’s three neighbours --Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur -- together reported 1,276 cases. Though their total positive cases have reduced from 24,546 on July 20 to 19,955 on Saturday, their active cases increased from 8,193 on Monday to 9,015 on Saturday. ‘Rise in cases in districts due to weak disease surveillance’North Tamil Nadu now has 30,247 active cases, including 13,923 in Chennai. Virologist Dr T Jacob John said while Chennai might have crossed the peak, the infection will continue to spread in rural areas and communities due to poor adherence to mask wearing and physical distancing. “The best way to slow down the spread is mask wearing. Government is only recommending mask wearing but is not enforcing it strictly. People still don’t understand that wearing it won’t just protect them but also their loved ones. Probably the chief minister could speak on television and tell people its importance,” he added. T Sundararaman, public health expert and former dean of the school of health systems studies, TISS, too said the rise in cases in the districts was due to weak disease surveillance and poor participation of the public in safety measures. “Every village should have started reporting fever clusters in the initial stage of the outbreak, so you could catch cases early and do contact tracing. Unfortunately, fever surveys and fever clinics are being done after it passed the boundary. But it is never too late. We have to get the entire strategy going but the point is people are not learning from the experiences in other places,” he added. After north TN, the 10 southern districts reported the most new cases at 2,079, including 376 in Virudhunagar, 317 in Tuticorin and 301 in Madurai. The region now has 14,298 active cases. Virudhunagar, which had less than 300 total cases on June 24, now has 2,357 active cases The eight districts in central region reported 637 cases followed by western region with 607. The two regions now have 3,753 and 3,676 active cases. Trichy, with 199 fresh cases, has 1,136 active cases and Coimbatore, with 270 new cases, has 1,373 active cases. Chennai reported 20 deaths followed by nine each in Madurai and Virudhunagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-virus-count-tops-2-lakh-record-6988-new-cases-in-24-hrs/articleshow/77176595.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu Covid-19 count tops 2 lakh, record 6,988 new cases in 24 hours||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid tally surged past two lakh on Saturday with fresh cases reported at just 12 short of 7,000, the highest so far, and 89 deaths pushing the toll to 3,409. The silver lining: Active cases in the state stood at 52,273, which accounts for 25% of the total cases compared to 42% on July 1. However, they have been increasing all week from 50,294 on July 19. While Chennai numbers may have stabilized, epidemiologists and virologists said poor disease surveillance and enforcement of safety measures such as mask wearing and social distancing in the districts have led to the surge in numbers. On Saturday, Chennai accounted for 19% of the fresh cases with 1,329 reported positive, while several districts such as Virudhunagar, Madurai, Tuticorin, Tirunelveli and Tuticorin have recorded a steady rise in cases over the week. With 3,649 new cases, the 11 districts in the north continue to reported the highest number of cases in the state at 3,647. Chennai’s three neighbours --Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur -- together reported 1,276 cases. Though their total positive cases have reduced from 24,546 on July 20 to 19,955 on Saturday, their active cases increased from 8,193 on Monday to 9,015 on Saturday. ‘Rise in cases in districts due to weak disease surveillance’North Tamil Nadu now has 30,247 active cases, including 13,923 in Chennai. Virologist Dr T Jacob John said while Chennai might have crossed the peak, the infection will continue to spread in rural areas and communities due to poor adherence to mask wearing and physical distancing. “The best way to slow down the spread is mask wearing. Government is only recommending mask wearing but is not enforcing it strictly. People still don’t understand that wearing it won’t just protect them but also their loved ones. Probably the chief minister could speak on television and tell people its importance,” he added. T Sundararaman, public health expert and former dean of the school of health systems studies, TISS, too said the rise in cases in the districts was due to weak disease surveillance and poor participation of the public in safety measures. “Every village should have started reporting fever clusters in the initial stage of the outbreak, so you could catch cases early and do contact tracing. Unfortunately, fever surveys and fever clinics are being done after it passed the boundary. But it is never too late. We have to get the entire strategy going but the point is people are not learning from the experiences in other places,” he added. After north TN, the 10 southern districts reported the most new cases at 2,079, including 376 in Virudhunagar, 317 in Tuticorin and 301 in Madurai. The region now has 14,298 active cases. Virudhunagar, which had less than 300 total cases on June 24, now has 2,357 active cases The eight districts in central region reported 637 cases followed by western region with 607. The two regions now have 3,753 and 3,676 active cases. Trichy, with 199 fresh cases, has 1,136 active cases and Coimbatore, with 270 new cases, has 1,373 active cases. Chennai reported 20 deaths followed by nine each in Madurai and Virudhunagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tn-virus-count-tops-2-lakh-record-6988-new-cases-in-24-hrs/articleshow/77176597.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu Covid-19 count tops 2 lakh, record 6,988 new cases in 24 hours||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid tally surged past two lakh on Saturday with fresh cases reported at just 12 short of 7,000, the highest so far, and 89 deaths pushing the toll to 3,409. The silver lining: Active cases in the state stood at 52,273, which accounts for 25% of the total cases compared to 42% on July 1. However, they have been increasing all week from 50,294 on July 19. While Chennai numbers may have stabilized, epidemiologists and virologists said poor disease surveillance and enforcement of safety measures such as mask wearing and social distancing in the districts have led to the surge in numbers. On Saturday, Chennai accounted for 19% of the fresh cases with 1,329 reported positive, while several districts such as Virudhunagar, Madurai, Tuticorin, Tirunelveli and Tuticorin have recorded a steady rise in cases over the week. With 3,649 new cases, the 11 districts in the north continue to reported the highest number of cases in the state at 3,647. Chennai’s three neighbours --Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur -- together reported 1,276 cases. Though their total positive cases have reduced from 24,546 on July 20 to 19,955 on Saturday, their active cases increased from 8,193 on Monday to 9,015 on Saturday. ‘Rise in cases in districts due to weak disease surveillance’North Tamil Nadu now has 30,247 active cases, including 13,923 in Chennai. Virologist Dr T Jacob John said while Chennai might have crossed the peak, the infection will continue to spread in rural areas and communities due to poor adherence to mask wearing and physical distancing. “The best way to slow down the spread is mask wearing. Government is only recommending mask wearing but is not enforcing it strictly. People still don’t understand that wearing it won’t just protect them but also their loved ones. Probably the chief minister could speak on television and tell people its importance,” he added. T Sundararaman, public health expert and former dean of the school of health systems studies, TISS, too said the rise in cases in the districts was due to weak disease surveillance and poor participation of the public in safety measures. “Every village should have started reporting fever clusters in the initial stage of the outbreak, so you could catch cases early and do contact tracing. Unfortunately, fever surveys and fever clinics are being done after it passed the boundary. But it is never too late. We have to get the entire strategy going but the point is people are not learning from the experiences in other places,” he added. After north TN, the 10 southern districts reported the most new cases at 2,079, including 376 in Virudhunagar, 317 in Tuticorin and 301 in Madurai. The region now has 14,298 active cases. Virudhunagar, which had less than 300 total cases on June 24, now has 2,357 active cases The eight districts in central region reported 637 cases followed by western region with 607. The two regions now have 3,753 and 3,676 active cases. Trichy, with 199 fresh cases, has 1,136 active cases and Coimbatore, with 270 new cases, has 1,373 active cases. Chennai reported 20 deaths followed by nine each in Madurai and Virudhunagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-virus-count-tops-2-lakh-record-6988-new-cases-in-24-hrs/articleshow/77175424.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Man arrested for uploading child porn||Coimbatore: The rural police arrested a 48-year-old man on Saturday for uploading a child pornography video on his Facebook page. The arrested person was identified as C T Sunil Kumar, a native of Kerala. He was staying at Ambal Nagar at Malumichampatti and was working in a canteen on the airport premises. He was booked under Section 15 (i) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012 and Section 67 A and 67 B of the Information Technology Act, 2000. According to the Chettipalayam police, Kumar had uploaded the video on his Facebook page on May 2. The National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) had furnished the IP address to the rural police. He was remanded in judicial custody. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-arrested-for-uploading-child-porn/articleshow/77175429.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Lucknow||UP: STF, Gonda Police rescue kidnapped boy within 15 hours||LUCKNOW: The special task force (STF) and Gonda Police rescued an eight-year-old kidnapped son of a gutka trader within 15 hours in the Colonelganj area of the district on Saturday. Five persons, including a woman, were arrested following an encounter when criminals were trying to shift their location. The kidnappers had demanded a ransom of Rs 4 crore. The police also recovered the car which was used by the miscreants for abduction of Om. Ten teams had been formed to crack the case. Investigations into the kidnapping gained momentum when ADG (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar drove down to Gonda on Friday night to supervise the operation on ground. Kumar said that an informer had tipped off police that kidnappers were changing their location in Gonda itself. “Our teams immediately laid a trap near Bahadgram and spotted the kidnappers in a car,” he said. The driver of the car was asked to stop for checking but its occupants opened fire. In retaliation, the STF and Gonda police fired back during which two of the kidnappers — Umesh Yadav and Deepu Kashyap — sustained injuries while three others — Suraj Pandey, his brother Raj Pandey and his wife Chhavi Pandey — were arrested. Later, cops recovered the boy from the car and seized it along with a 0.32 bore pistol, two country made weapons and a mobile phone used in the crime. The abductors had demanded a ransom of Rs 4 crore after getting to know that the boy’s father was a big trader of gutka and bidi. They did not manhandle the boy in their captivity. Gonda superintendent of Police Raj Karan Nayyar told TOI that combing operation to nab other associates of the gang was under way. “We got leads from the CCTV footage which had captured the gang members and also the car. The location of the mobile numbers from where calls were made also helped us to zero in on them,” he said. Nayyar also said that barring Suraj Pandey, who had a theft case registered against his name, none of the other accused had any criminal record. “During interrogation, the five disclosed that they had heard from locals that Om’s father Harikumar Gupta had acquired property and was also planning to open a big shop in Colonelganj, where Raja Pandey also owned a small kiosk,” he said. The officer also said that police teams were still working on the case and trying to trace the person whose SIM card was used to make ransom calls to the trader. Meanwhile, soon after the workout and recovery of Om, the entire village of Gadi Bazaar erupted in joy. His father Harikumar was so overjoyed that he started crying in front of media persons and said that “Police were like God to me. All the officers kept in touch and also assured us not to worry,” he said. UP government has awarded the STF and the Gonda police Rs 1 lakh each for the successful recovery. As per the FIR was lodged by the boy’s uncle, Vinod Gupta, at Colonelganj police station, around 1.25 pm on Friday, two men came to their locality posing as health department workers from Delhi and that they were distributing face masks and sanitisers. They had asked the boy and his brother, who were with their grandmother, Vindeshwari, to come near their parked car and take the masks and sanitizers. The elder boy had walked away with the men and did not return. He was driven away by his kidnappers. Later in the evening, the family got calls from two different numbers for a ransom amount of Rs 4 crore. The CCTV footage which showed the boy being accompanied by captors in front of his house helped police identify the kidnappers and their vehicle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/stf-gonda-police-rescue-kidnapped-boy-within-15-hrs/articleshow/77176312.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
July 26, 2020||Chennai||N Viswanathan back as AIADMK Dindigul district secretary||CHENNAI: In a bid to strengthen the party ahead of the assembly polls, the ruling AIADMK on Saturday revamped its district units and brought on board ministers, MLAs, and veterans to run the party affairs. Former minister Natham R Viswanathan and his rival and forest minister Dindigul C Sreenivasan will head Dindigul East and West units respectively, while minister Vellamandi N Natarajan is Trichy city unit secretary. Former chief minister J Jayalalithaa had sacked Viswanathan from the post of Dindigul district secretary after he was defeated by DMK leader I Periasamy in 2016 polls. Viswanathan is one of the organising secretaries now. A statement jointly issued by party coordinator O Panneerselvam and joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami announced constitution of 29 new party district units, taking the tally to 67 in the party’s scheme of things. The most notable changes are made in Tiruvallur district, which has been split into five to accommodate minister P Benjamin, former ministers Madhavaram V Moorthy and B V Ramana, and MLAs, P Balaraman and V Alexander as heads. Minister K Pandiarajan and actor Vindya have been appointed propaganda wing deputy secretaries. In addition to existing five district units in Chennai, the leadership has created Chennai suburban district and made former Sholinganallur MLA K P Kandan its first secretary. Minister K C Veeramani has been made Tirupattur district secretary, and ministers C Ve Shanmugam and O S Manian will continue to be in charge of Villupuram and Nagapattinam. Coimbatore district. Minister S P Velumani will be secretary of Coimbatore (south). Former minister Agri S S Krishnamurthy has been appointed as Tiruvannamalai south district secretary in lieu of minister Sevoor S Ramachandran. Ramachandran has become organising secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/n-viswanathan-back-as-aiadmk-dindigul-dist-secy/articleshow/77174367.cms||Julie Mariappan
July 26, 2020||Raipur||Chhattisgarh: 40 cows gasp to death in locked room in Bilaspur village||RAIPUR: At least 40 cows suffocated to death and many are ailing after being locked up in a small room inside a dilapidated panchayat building that’s been turned into a makeshift gaushala in a Bilaspur village. The cows were packed so tight in the room that it was impossible to open the door on Saturday when people realized it had turned into a black hole. Part of a wall had to be pulled down to retrieve the carcasses and rescue the survivors. Shocking videos have emerged of the carcasses being pulled out of the hole in the wall by a tractor. Calling it an unfortunate incident, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said, “I have asked Bilaspur collector to take action against those responsible for the cow deaths. None of the culprits will be spared.” Initial probe indicates that the villagers and sarpanch had decided to keep the cattle in the enclosed room to prevent them from straying into the fields during crop season. The usual practice in monsoon in these parts is to keep all the cattle of the village at one place so that people can focus on transplanting paddy. An FIR has been registered but it doesn’t name anyone. The incident happened in Medhpar village, a small settlement of 1,100 people, barely 25km from Bilaspur. Villagers woke up to a horrible stench on Friday and realized it was coming from the abandoned panchayat building, where about 100 cows had been herded into. A few peeked in and were horrified to see one room full of carcasses. Police and administration were informed and a cavity dug in the wall to retrieve the carcasses. At least 40 cows had died and more than a dozen were ‘half-dead’ when rescued, say local sources. Vets and police and administrative officials have gone to the village. Bilaspur collector Saaransh Mittar has set up an investigation committee under the additional collector, joint director-veterinary services, deputy director-agriculture and a subdivisional officer. The report has to be submitted in three days. Autopsies on a few carcasses revealed that they had suffocated to death, say sources. “It appears to be a collective decision of cattle owners and the sarpanch to lock cows at a shelter as they might have damaged crops during rainy season. While the villagers are not saying much as of now, we are investigating how long the cows were kept there,” Bilaspur SP Prashant Agrawal told TOI. An FIR has been lodged under Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and Section 429 of IPC, the SP said adding that it “doesn’t seem to be an intentional act, though it could be carelessness”. Just four days ago, the state government had launched a first-of-its-kind scheme to procure cow dung at Rs 2 a kilo, turn it into vermicompost, and sell it for Rs 8 a kilo. Former CM Raman Singh alleged negligence by the administration. “As per my information, there was no water or straw for the cattle. Many of the cows that died were pregnant and very healthy. The workers under Gauthan and Roka-Cheka schemes are not well-trained, and the shelters built for Rs 25 lakh are dilapidated, without walls, shed or roof,” Singh said. Singh and leader of opposition Dharamlal Kaushik have demanded strict action against those responsible and compensation for cattle owners. The CM’s advisor Pradeep Sharma, who conceived the Gauthan Yojana, said, “Farmers and cattle owners are yet to sync with government’s welfare schemes for cows. As rice transplantation is going on in full swing now, they are focused on that. They can easily take cows to Gauthans during monsoon and sell cow dung.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/raipur/40-cows-gasp-to-death-in-locked-room-in-chhgarh-village/articleshow/77176302.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Bengaluru||Four crematoria in Bengaluru dedicated for Covid victims||BENGALURU Four electric crematoria in the city will be exclusively used for the last rites of Covid victims. The crematoria are located at Kengeri (Rajarajeshwari Nagar zone), Medi Agrahara (Yelahanka), Koodlu(Bommanahalli) and Panathur (Mahadevapura). BBMP issued a circular to this effect on Friday. With 2,000-plus Covid cases being reported on average in recent weeks, the city has seen over 800 deaths so far. The spike in fatalities (40-60 every day) has put additional pressure on crematoria. Videos of ambulances queuing up in front of Hebbal crematorium and drivers asking BBMP to streamline the system went viral on Friday.  The Palike had claimed that 11 crematoria, with two furnaces each, can handle up to 192 bodies per day and can easily cater to the city’s requirement. However, there has been opposition from residents regarding cremation of Covid victims at the facilities as most are located near thickly populated residential areas. Earlier this month, residents had staged a protest in JC Nagar over burial of a Covid victim at a burial ground nearby. Their main grouse was that BBMP personnel had discarded their PPE kits and gloves at the site and stray dogs had dragged the items outside, leading to panic as well as health concerns.  500 incentive for workers  In a related development, BBMP staff will receive Rs 500 as incentive for each Covid victim they cremate. The Palike has waived cremation charges of Rs 250 for Covid victims. The agency will also bear the cost of Rs 900 towards purchase of bamboo frames used for cremation and Rs 100 towards mud pots for collection of ash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/four-crematoria-in-city-dedicated-for-covid-victims/articleshow/77174370.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Centenarian, octogenarian women beat deadly Covid-19 virus in Andhra||TIRUPATI/VISAKHAPATNAM: A 101-year-old woman from Andhra Pradesh has joined the select band of centenarians who have beaten Covid-19 despite being among the most vulnerable to it. She was discharged from the Sri Venkateswara Medical Institute at Tirupati on Saturday. This makes her the oldest known patient to beat the pandemic in Andhra Pradesh. Palakuri Managamma was admitted to the isolation ward at SVIMS, one of the five state-level Covid hospitals, about 10 days ago after being diagnosed with the disease. Amid the growing number of Covid cases as well as deaths in Andhra Pradesh, the recovery of the centenarian comes as a glimmer of hope. SVIMS medical superintendent Dr R Ram said that many people lose hope once they come to know that they contracted the virus. “But the fight put up by Managamma was great and is an inspiration to others. While there is global panic over the pandemic, we are happy to see the 101-year-old recovering from the disease,” he said. While discharging the patient, the medical superintendent touched her feet of the woman to show respect. Meanwhile, an 86-year-old woman was cured of Covid-19 in Vizianagaram district on Saturday. Vizianagaram superintendent of police B Raja Kumari called on the octogenarian at her home after she was discharged from hospital. The patient, during her hospital stay at the Maharajah Institute of Medical Sciences, was helped by a woman constable, D Radhika, who also tested positive for the virus. Raja Kumari also appreciated the woman constable for her gesture. Radhika had fed the octogenarian and helped with her chores.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/centenarian-octogenarian-women-beat-deadly-covid-19-virus-in-andhra/articleshow/77174379.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Kin, villagers refuse burial of Covid-19 victim||VISAKHAPATNAM: In yet another inhuman incident this Covid-19 season, the body of a virus victim had to be kept in an ambulance for several hours after his relatives and villagers refused to hold funeral rites. The ambulance was taken to different places for the final rites, but it had to return after resistance from locals. Left with no alternative, officials finally selected an agricultural field for his last rites. The incident took place at Bathili village on Andhra-Odisha border in Srikakulam district. Police, revenue and health officials had to intervene to provide a decent funeral. Andhra Pradesh has witnessed several incidents where relatives and locals refused to allow burial or cremation in the regular graveyards. A 29-year-old man of Bathili village died due to Covid-19 at Kottur government hospital 30 kms away. He was the son of a retired government teacher. Srikakulam district collector J Nivas said “I have instructed Bhamini tahsildar to lodge a case against those who obstructed the final rites.” Bhamini tahsildar in-charge B Suresh said, “We will identify the people based on video footages and photos we took during our work.” Suresh said with the help of the Indian Red Cross Society from Srikakulam town the body was cremated as per the set protocols on Friday night. Red Cross Srikakulam chairman P Jaganmohana Rao said, “The man’s family and villagers refused to accept the body. Our team conducted the final rites.” Bathili sub-inspector MA Ahmed explained that it is the first Covid-19 death in the village, which already has one more active Covid-19 case. Covid-19 test was conducted on the body on Friday morning and it turned out to be positive, he added. Ahmed said the man died due to lack of timely medical care. “It seems he suffered from weakness for the last few days. The victim is believed to have got infected from a relative, who works at the health department at Pathapatnam in the district, during his recent visit to the former’s home,” the SI added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/kin-villagers-refuse-burial-of-covid-19-victim/articleshow/77174382.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
July 26, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP reports 7,813 +ve cases, toll rises to 985 with 52 deaths||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 7,813 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the cumulative tally to 88,761. The Covid-19 toll increased to 985 with 52 more people succumbing to the pandemic on Saturday. About 3,300 people cured were declared of Covid-19 and with this, there are currently 44,431 active cases in Andhra Pradesh with the cumulative discharges of 43,255 and 985 deaths. The state tested 53,681 samples on Saturday and detected 7,813 new cases. East Godavari, which emerged as the epicentre of the novel coronavirus outbreak in Andhra Pradesh in the last few weeks, contributed 1,324 new cases to cross the 12,000 mark. West Godavari reported 1,012 new cases, followed by Visakhapatnam 936, Kurnool 742, Anantapur 723 and Guntur 656. Kurnool became the second district in the state to cross Covid-19 milestone of 10,000 cases. Of the 52 deaths, nine are from Guntur, eight from West Godavari, six each from East Godavari. Krishna and Kurnool, five from Chittoor, four from Vizianagaram, three each from Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam, and one each from Nellore and Prakasam districts. The case positivity rate stood at about 5.5%, while the mortality rate remained at 1.11%. As per official statistics, only 5,429 cases were detected in the first five lakh tests for Covid-19, translating into a case positivity rate of 1.06 percent. The positivity had gone up to 2.6% for the second five lakh tests and an alarming 11.8 percent in the latest five lakh tests or by the time the state clocked the 15 lakh tests. While 13,268 cases were diagnosed in the second five lakh tests, nearly 62,161 people tested positive for the disease in the latest five lakh tests. The state so far tested 15.95 lakh samples, testing about 29,882 people per every million population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-reports-7813-ve-cases-toll-rises-to-985-with-52-deaths/articleshow/77174392.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Vijayawada||AP reports 7,813 +ve cases, toll rises to 985 with 52 deaths||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 7,813 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the cumulative tally to 88,761. The Covid-19 toll increased to 985 with 52 more people succumbing to the pandemic on Saturday. About 3,300 people cured were declared of Covid-19 and with this, there are currently 44,431 active cases in Andhra Pradesh with the cumulative discharges of 43,255 and 985 deaths. The state tested 53,681 samples on Saturday and detected 7,813 new cases. East Godavari, which emerged as the epicentre of the novel coronavirus outbreak in Andhra Pradesh in the last few weeks, contributed 1,324 new cases to cross the 12,000 mark. West Godavari reported 1,012 new cases, followed by Visakhapatnam 936, Kurnool 742, Anantapur 723 and Guntur 656. Kurnool became the second district in the state to cross Covid-19 milestone of 10,000 cases. Of the 52 deaths, nine are from Guntur, eight from West Godavari, six each from East Godavari. Krishna and Kurnool, five from Chittoor, four from Vizianagaram, three each from Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam, and one each from Nellore and Prakasam districts. The case positivity rate stood at about 5.5%, while the mortality rate remained at 1.11%. As per official statistics, only 5,429 cases were detected in the first five lakh tests for Covid-19, translating into a case positivity rate of 1.06 percent. The positivity had gone up to 2.6% for the second five lakh tests and an alarming 11.8 percent in the latest five lakh tests or by the time the state clocked the 15 lakh tests. While 13,268 cases were diagnosed in the second five lakh tests, nearly 62,161 people tested positive for the disease in the latest five lakh tests. The state so far tested 15.95 lakh samples, testing about 29,882 people per every million population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-reports-7813-ve-cases-toll-rises-to-985-with-52-deaths/articleshow/77178705.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Amaravati||AP reports 7,813 +ve cases, toll rises to 985 with 52 deaths||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 7,813 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the cumulative tally to 88,761. The Covid-19 toll increased to 985 with 52 more people succumbing to the pandemic on Saturday. About 3,300 people cured were declared of Covid-19 and with this, there are currently 44,431 active cases in Andhra Pradesh with the cumulative discharges of 43,255 and 985 deaths. The state tested 53,681 samples on Saturday and detected 7,813 new cases. East Godavari, which emerged as the epicentre of the novel coronavirus outbreak in Andhra Pradesh in the last few weeks, contributed 1,324 new cases to cross the 12,000 mark. West Godavari reported 1,012 new cases, followed by Visakhapatnam 936, Kurnool 742, Anantapur 723 and Guntur 656. Kurnool became the second district in the state to cross Covid-19 milestone of 10,000 cases. Of the 52 deaths, nine are from Guntur, eight from West Godavari, six each from East Godavari. Krishna and Kurnool, five from Chittoor, four from Vizianagaram, three each from Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam, and one each from Nellore and Prakasam districts. The case positivity rate stood at about 5.5%, while the mortality rate remained at 1.11%. As per official statistics, only 5,429 cases were detected in the first five lakh tests for Covid-19, translating into a case positivity rate of 1.06 percent. The positivity had gone up to 2.6% for the second five lakh tests and an alarming 11.8 percent in the latest five lakh tests or by the time the state clocked the 15 lakh tests. While 13,268 cases were diagnosed in the second five lakh tests, nearly 62,161 people tested positive for the disease in the latest five lakh tests. The state so far tested 15.95 lakh samples, testing about 29,882 people per every million population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-reports-7813-ve-cases-toll-rises-to-985-with-52-deaths/articleshow/77178703.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Noida||Fake call centre offering jobs busted in Noida, three held||GHAZIABAD: Probing a kidnapping case led the Ghaziabad police to the busting of a fake call centre that ran a job scam for over two years, promising people employment in exchange for money, on Friday evening. Three persons, including the mastermind, have been arrested. Police said the accused made the most of the lockdown, targeting a number of retrenched employees desperately looking for jobs. The call centre operated out of a house near Labour Chowk in Khoda Colony. The modus operandi was simple. “A website — www.data-entry.online — would draw people looking for jobs. The ‘call centre’ would then get in touch with these applicants by calling or mailing them, asking them to pay for services like registration, confirmed job interviews, and so on,” said Sandeep Singh, SHO of Khoda police station.  “The accused also used to source data of their potential targets from an online portal. And with all the data in hand, the accused would call up job seekers, and assure them of employment only if they register themselves on www.data-entry.online. The registration fee ranged from Rs 1,500 to Rs 15,000,” Singh said.  Once the registration process is complete, the accused would provide a WhatsApp number to their targets for further conversation. “Subsequently, the accused charged their targets up to Rs 2 lakh for fake telephonic job interviews and offer letters,” the SHO said. Once the payment was made, there would be complete silence. “They used to buy SIM cards using documents of their targets.” The accused have been identified as Ravi Chauhan, the mastermind, and his two accomplices — Pramod and Vikas, all residents of Noida. However, one more accused is on the run. One car, six mobile phones, calling sheets, several SIM cards, laptops and Rs 2,000 cash have been seized from their possession. Police suspect the accused had duped at least a 1,000 people in the past two years. “They made the most of the lockdown, duping at least 70 people of large sums just in the past four months. These are mostly retrenched employees. Probe revealed some of the accused bought land in Delhi-NCR from the ill-gotten money,” said another police officer. Watch How a Noida centre duped hundreds with fake job offers, interviews||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/fake-call-centre-offering-jobs-busted-in-noida-three-held/articleshow/77177281.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Ghaziabad||Fake call centre offering jobs busted in Noida, three held||GHAZIABAD: Probing a kidnapping case led the Ghaziabad police to the busting of a fake call centre that ran a job scam for over two years, promising people employment in exchange for money, on Friday evening. Three persons, including the mastermind, have been arrested. Police said the accused made the most of the lockdown, targeting a number of retrenched employees desperately looking for jobs. The call centre operated out of a house near Labour Chowk in Khoda Colony. The modus operandi was simple. “A website — www.data-entry.online — would draw people looking for jobs. The ‘call centre’ would then get in touch with these applicants by calling or mailing them, asking them to pay for services like registration, confirmed job interviews, and so on,” said Sandeep Singh, SHO of Khoda police station.  “The accused also used to source data of their potential targets from an online portal. And with all the data in hand, the accused would call up job seekers, and assure them of employment only if they register themselves on www.data-entry.online. The registration fee ranged from Rs 1,500 to Rs 15,000,” Singh said.  Once the registration process is complete, the accused would provide a WhatsApp number to their targets for further conversation. “Subsequently, the accused charged their targets up to Rs 2 lakh for fake telephonic job interviews and offer letters,” the SHO said. Once the payment was made, there would be complete silence. “They used to buy SIM cards using documents of their targets.” The accused have been identified as Ravi Chauhan, the mastermind, and his two accomplices — Pramod and Vikas, all residents of Noida. However, one more accused is on the run. One car, six mobile phones, calling sheets, several SIM cards, laptops and Rs 2,000 cash have been seized from their possession. Police suspect the accused had duped at least a 1,000 people in the past two years. “They made the most of the lockdown, duping at least 70 people of large sums just in the past four months. These are mostly retrenched employees. Probe revealed some of the accused bought land in Delhi-NCR from the ill-gotten money,” said another police officer. Watch How a Noida centre duped hundreds with fake job offers, interviews||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/fake-call-centre-offering-jobs-busted-in-noida-three-held/articleshow/77177283.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Delhi||Fake call centre offering jobs busted in Noida, three held||GHAZIABAD: Probing a kidnapping case led the Ghaziabad police to the busting of a fake call centre that ran a job scam for over two years, promising people employment in exchange for money, on Friday evening. Three persons, including the mastermind, have been arrested. Police said the accused made the most of the lockdown, targeting a number of retrenched employees desperately looking for jobs. The call centre operated out of a house near Labour Chowk in Khoda Colony. The modus operandi was simple. “A website — www.data-entry.online — would draw people looking for jobs. The ‘call centre’ would then get in touch with these applicants by calling or mailing them, asking them to pay for services like registration, confirmed job interviews, and so on,” said Sandeep Singh, SHO of Khoda police station.  “The accused also used to source data of their potential targets from an online portal. And with all the data in hand, the accused would call up job seekers, and assure them of employment only if they register themselves on www.data-entry.online. The registration fee ranged from Rs 1,500 to Rs 15,000,” Singh said.  Once the registration process is complete, the accused would provide a WhatsApp number to their targets for further conversation. “Subsequently, the accused charged their targets up to Rs 2 lakh for fake telephonic job interviews and offer letters,” the SHO said. Once the payment was made, there would be complete silence. “They used to buy SIM cards using documents of their targets.” The accused have been identified as Ravi Chauhan, the mastermind, and his two accomplices — Pramod and Vikas, all residents of Noida. However, one more accused is on the run. One car, six mobile phones, calling sheets, several SIM cards, laptops and Rs 2,000 cash have been seized from their possession. Police suspect the accused had duped at least a 1,000 people in the past two years. “They made the most of the lockdown, duping at least 70 people of large sums just in the past four months. These are mostly retrenched employees. Probe revealed some of the accused bought land in Delhi-NCR from the ill-gotten money,” said another police officer. Watch How a Noida centre duped hundreds with fake job offers, interviews||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fake-call-centre-offering-jobs-busted-in-noida-three-held/articleshow/77175430.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Delhi||Annual affair in Delhi: Kirari turns into a pond after showers||NEW DELHI: Hundreds of homes in outer Delhi’s Kirari get regularly inundated in knee-deep water during the monsoons. This year is no different and rainwater from the showers a couple of days back is yet to recede.  The Kirari ward is characterised by the poor drainage issue faced by a number of unauthorised colonies, which are in low lying areas and have no natural outflow. Jai Prakash, the mayor of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, visited the area on Saturday. “The entire ward is suffering from a waterlogging problem and the local MLA has not done anything to get the accumulated water cleared. I have spoken to local residents who tell me that for three months in a year, these lanes remain filled with water. Even a light spell of rain leads to the area being inundated,” the mayor added.  Prakash alleged that the area falls under the category where the state government needs to carry out work for laying down sewers, drainage lines and roads, but nothing has been done. “It feels as if we are not in the capital, but a flood affected village in a distant location,” the mayor remarked.  The local municipal office, Prakash said, has been ordered to carry out an anti-mosquito drive so that the stagnated water does not lead to an outbreak of diseases.  Kirari MLA Rituraj Govind said tender for laying drain network for 106 colonies has already been awarded. “First, the sewer and drainage line will be laid and then road work will be carried out. Work was supposed to start in April, but due to the lockdown the project had to be postponed,” he said. The project, Govind added, will now start in October as digging work cannot be carried out during the monsoons.  Civic body officials said the drains in the area have been constructed at elevated level by the irrigation and flood control department as a result the water does not recede easily. “We deploy pumps when a problem arises but the issue needs a permanent solution,” the civic official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/annual-affair-kirari-turns-into-a-pond-after-showers/articleshow/77175437.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Panchayat official suspended||Coimbatore: A village panchayat secretary in Tirupur was suspended on Friday for failing to remit the collected tax amount of Rs 10 lakh to the panchayat account.Kanchana, 45, of Sivanmalai near Kangeyam in Tirupur district, was appointed secretary of Paranjervali village panchayat one-and-a-half years ago. It was her responsibility to collect property tax and water tax from people in the village panchayat. She had failed to deposit the Rs 10 lakh tax to the panchayat account for more than a month. Kangeyam block development officer (BDO) Magudeswari, who inspected the village panchayat to verified tax details, found out the irregularity and suspended Kanchana on Friday.Kanchana had deposited the amount in the panchayat account two days ago, sources said. Further inquiry is on.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/panchayat-official-suspended/articleshow/77175449.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Jaipur||Pilot should have chosen AICC office rather than a hotel in BJP-ruled state: Khachariyawas||Jaipur: The Congress held a state-wide demonstration against the BJP for conspiring to topple the government on Saturday.In Jaipur, the protest held at Youth Congress Office was led by transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas. CM Ashok Gehlot son’s Vaibhav Gehlot, who rarely makes his appearance on the political front, in the protest told BJP that they may have succeeded in collapsing governments in other states, but can never succeed in Rajasthan.The minister, who is also district Congress president, warned that once these rebel MLAs siding with Sachin Pilot start visiting their constituencies, they will face black flags from the party workers. He said, “You (Pilot) have chosen the wrong path of destabilising an elected government. The Congress party has internal democracy in place and you should have chosen cabinet, CM house or All India Congress Committee party office in Delhi to raise your issues, but you chose a hotel in a BJP-ruled state.” Over 200 people attended the protest holding banners and posters.Once considered a close aide of Pilot, Khachariyawas clarified his relations with the former that when he was given the Lok Sabha ticket in 2005, he didn’t know much about Pilot. “In 2008, I was given the state assembly ticket directly by then Congress president Sonia Gandhi,” Khachariyawas said.Defending the Congress stand of raising slogans inside the governor house, the minister said, “CM Ashok Gehlot was pushed to the wall. He was denied the constitutional right of having a special assembly session. He went to the governor’s house with the MLAs just to express our demand.”However, clarifying Congress stand on staging slogans inside the governor’s house, Khachariyawas said that it is the moral and legal duty of the ruling Congress party to provide security and respect to the governor. “Our intention of heading to the governor’s house has not been taken in the right spirit. Congress has always followed non-violent and Gandhian way to register protest with the governor. The chief minister, his entire ministry and law enforcement agencies are committed to provide him security,” said the minister. Vaibhav said that BJP is leaving no stone unturned to topple the democratically elected government as they have done in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh, but they forget that this time they are dealing with a strong government in Rajasthan. All speakers minced no words in attacking BJP and the Pilot camp, but chose not to make any direct statement against governor Kalraj Mishra.In Chittorgarh, Congress leader Nagendra Singh Rathore held a protest at the Collectorate Circle. Congressmen are ready to march at governor’s house in Jaipur and president’s house in Delhi to press the demand for a session in the assembly, he said.Former Congress spokesperson in Ajmer, Muzaffar Bharti said this battle to save democracy has given a new lease of life in every Congressman who will stand by CM Ashok Gehlot and the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pilot-should-have-chosen-aicc-office-rather-than-a-hotel-in-bjp-ruled-state-khachariyawas/articleshow/77176314.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Kolkata||One-handed man kills friend in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A left-hand amputee rickshaw-puller reportedly murdered another rickshaw-puller early on Saturday around the time the statewide lockdown came into force. The incident was reported around 6am on the southern side of the Baghajatin flyover. Cops from the Patuli police station later rounded up the accused, Selim Haldar (35), who was allegedly often teased by the victim, Subhas Kumar Sharma alias Bihari (48), for his disability. According to the police, both Haldar and Sharma plied rickshaws in the Patuli area. Owing to the pandemic, Haldar had stopped returning to his home in Subhasgram, and had been putting up in a nearby temple, along with Sharma. Though they stayed at the same place, the two would often have arguments. A few days ago, Haldar claimed, he was assaulted by Sharma. On Friday night, the two decided to drink together on Baghajatin flyover. Towards morning, Sharma allegedly hit Haldar again. “This time, Haldar threatened to take revenge. But Sharma did not take him seriously and went off to sleep on top of the flyover. Haldar went to his rickshaw, and took out two concrete slabs that he kept. He returned to where Sharma was sleeping and hit his head with the slabs thrice, killing him,” said an officer from the south suburban division. “By the time locals found Sharma’s body, Haldar had fled.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/one-handed-man-kills-friend/articleshow/77175457.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 26, 2020||Coimbatore||40 new cases in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district recorded 40 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday. As many as 47 patients were discharged.So far, the district accounts for 661 cases. As many as 190 active cases are being treated at the government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor, Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and ESI hospital in Coimbatore.The new 40 cases, including 22 women, were reported from villages in Ooty and Coonoor taluks. While 17 cases are linked to the Oranalli wedding function cluster, six are contacts of a person working in a private hospital in Coimbatore. Five cases are pertaining to contacts of earlier positive cases with travel history, while two people tested positive after visiting Coimbatore.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/40-new-cases-in-nilgiris/articleshow/77175442.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Alert residents thwart gang’s burglary bid||Coimbatore: The Peelamedu police have increased vigil after a three-member gang tried to break into houses at Balaguru Garden on Saturday morning.The gang members, who had covered their faces using clothes, were caught on CCTV cameras, police sources said. “One of them was carrying an iron rod. They tried to break open doors of four houses, but had to flee after the inmates switched on lights,” a police officer said.The burglars had latched doors of three houses from outside. Two college students, who noticed the miscreants, contacted the police control room. By the time a police team reached the place, the burglars managed to escape.Assistant commissioner of police Somasundaram, inspector T Jothi and sub-inspector Gnanasekar visited the area and met the residents.The burglary attempt has left residents in shock, said president of the Balaguru Garden Resident Welfare Association C Venkidupathi. “As many as 300 families are staying in the area. We have decided to increase the number of CCTV cameras,” he told TOI.A police team has been deployed in the area, Somasundaram said. “We have strengthened beat patrolling and night patrolling. After a gang was caught on CCTV at Deepam Nagar at Irugur on Thursday, we have tightened security there also,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/alert-residents-thwart-gangs-burglary-bid/articleshow/77175467.cms||A Subburaj
July 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Foreign returnees stopped at border||Udhagamandalam: As many as eight people from the Nilgiris, who managed to return from foreign lands thanks to the Vande Bharat Mission, had a tough time entering their home state due to lack of coordination among officials of both the states.The people, from Sharjah and UAE, had landed at the Kozhikode International Airport in Kerala. They headed towards the Nilgiris as airport quarantine was not in practice in the neighbouring state. But authorities stopped them at the Nadugani check post in Gudalur taluk.While three people from Sharjah were stranded for 12 hours on Thursday, two returnees had to go through the ordeal on Friday. Their e-passes were declined, Gudalur DMK MLA M Thiravidamani said. “They had Aadhaar cards as local address proof.”Officials at the Kozhikode International Airport said they had stopped lifting samples from passengers and airport quarantine 10 days ago.E-pass is required to enter the state, Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya told TOI. “The process of airport quarantine and lifting swab samples from passengers coming from abroad are taken care by the state government. If landed in airports within the state, the collectors will be duly informed about the passengers. But problems arise when people land in other states where airport quarantine is not in force and the home state of the passengers is not informed. We would not know whether the people are really coming from abroad unless the documents are verified. A team headed by the Gudalur RDO has been deputed to sort out the issue and recommend e-pass,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/foreign-returnees-stopped-at-border/articleshow/77175460.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Teen drowns in pit at unfenced DJB site||NEW DELHI: An 18-year-old boy drowned in a water-filled pit near Sarita Vihar while he was trying to save his two friends who had allegedly fallen into the pit during the rain. The incident happened near the Okhla Tank area on Thursday. Police say that an inquiry is being conducted into how the youths managed to enter the area that houses a Delhi Jal Board (DJB) plant. The teenager, Mohammad Amir, had seen his friends calling for help and jumped in to save them. Family members said that eyewitnesses told them that Amir managed to help the two boys out of the pit. But while he was climbing out, a portion of the soft mud along the pit collapsed and fell on him due to which he drowned, they added. DCP (Southeast) RP Meena said that an FIR under sections of “causing death due to negligence” has been registered and a probe is on to establish the culpability. Police are waiting for an inquiry report from DJB on this. The cops are also looking for the two boys whom the teenager had purportedly saved. Police said that the pit in which the boy drowned is almost 30 feet deep and was under construction. Prima facie evidence does not suggest there were any barricades or warning signs nearby. According to Amir’s father Jamaal, the incident happened around 3.30pm when the teen went out to play with his friends. “Since I work as a tailor with a private garments company, I was not at home. A family member informed me that my son had drowned while trying to save two others,” said Jamal. The family has not ruled out the possibility of a foul play. “I don’t know why he had gone to the DJB site while it was raining,” wondered Jamaal. According to the family, the area where the pit is located is easily accessible to youths from the locality. “I want to know from DJB why the area was not guarded by fences, especially when it was filled up with rainwater during the monsoon,” Jamal asked. When contacted, a DJB spokesperson said: “On the day of the incident, a group of five-six boys, including the deceased, had trespassed into the premises. When the security guard deployed there tried to stop them, they got into an argument with him and jumped into the pool. We have brought up the issue of trespassing with the locals a number of times, but the children still climb over the wall and enter our premises. Since there is a construction work going within our guarded area, there were no additional barricades put up around the pit. We are cooperating with police on this.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/teen-drowns-in-pit-at-unfenced-djb-site/articleshow/77175484.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Biomedical waste disposal: Seven healthcare institutions get notices in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: In another move aimed at streamlining biomedical waste management, the Panipat regional office of Haryana State Pollution Control Board has served notices on seven healthcare agencies, including the Panipat chapter of Indian Red Cross Society and ESI hospital of Panipat. It is alleged that these healthcare centres and the blood bank have not made any arrangements for disposal of biomedical waste generated in their institutions. As a result, the regional officer (RO), Panipat initiated the proceedings. Consequent to the directions of the ministry of environment and forests, a policy was formulated for disposal of biomedical waste. All health centres except the seven institutions in question got themselves registered for this. Registration ended in March 2019. Sources said the proceedings began last May when the environment watchdog of the state put all healthcare institutions, private and government, on notice. “Many healthcare centres complied with the orders and submitted their replies. We did not get any response from these seven centres, hence we served them notices. We are regularly pursuing the case with them,’’ said Shailender Arora, RO, Panipat. He expressed hope of compliance failing which, he said, action would be taken in accordance with rules related to violations of Environment Protection Act. In the notices, District Red Cross Society, Panipat, ESI Hospital Panipat and other agencies have been asked to submit plans for disposal of biomedical and other hazardous waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/panipat-red-cross-society-esi-hospital-among-7-to-get-notices-over-biomedical-waste-disposal/articleshow/77175446.cms||Manvir Saini
July 26, 2020||Chandigarh||SAD to file police complaints against Dera follower Veerpal Kaur||Chandigarh: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) said Saturday that the party would register cases against Dera Sacha Sauda follower Veerpal Kaur across Punjab for hurting religious sentiments of Sikhs. This came a day after Kaur apologised to SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal for her claim on a television channel that Sirsa-based dera’s head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh had on May 13, 2007, worn the attire sent by Sukhbir. SAD spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema said that a few days ago Kaur had sprinkled salt on the wounds of the Sikh community by comparing a convicted rapist (dera head) with Sikh Guru. In a virtual press conference, Cheema also alleged Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar and cabinet minister Sukhjinder Randhawa were supporting Kaur. SAD objected to objectifying a convicted rapist as a true saint and only almighty God by Veerpal Kaur, he said and alleged that she had depicted the Dera head and Guru Gobind Singh as equals, which was blasphemous. He also said that the party had also taken strong objection to comparison of the actions of the Dera head with that of the first Sikh master – Guru Nanak Dev. “Our cadre will approach police stations across the state and register FIRs under section 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) against Veerpal Kaur,” said Cheema. The former minister said though Kaur had regretted her actions and even admitted that she did not have any evidence to buttress the claims that she had attributed to a former Punjab Police officer, she also indulged in more mischief simultaneously. “It seems Veerpal is part of a larger conspiracy. Immediately after she uttered lies aimed at harming the reputation of SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, the lies were picked up for propagation by Congress leaders Sunil Jakhar and Sukhjinder Randhawa,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-to-file-police-complaints-against-dera-follower-veerpal-kaur/articleshow/77175465.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Rajkot||Breach in Amreli’s Triveni Dam||Rajkot: Influx of water in Surajvadi River due to constant rain in the region caused a five feet breach in the Triveni Dam near Badhada in Amreli district on Saturday afternoon. According to the Amreli district administration officials, the dam provides water to 10 villages including Bhadada, Navu Bhadada, Shantinagar, Jabal and Abrahampara. “Due to the breach in the dam, Surajvadi River is flowing from bank to bank,” said Jabal village sarpanch Bhupendra Khuman. “I have alerted the flood control department of the Amreli district administration and the officials have promised me of quick action,” added Khuman. Since Friday night, Amreli district had reported heavy rains in Savarkundala, Rajula and Jafrabad talukas. Meanwhile, India Meteorological Department has predicted heavy to very heavy rains in Gir Somnath, Porbandar, Jamnagar, Porbandar, Morbi, Dwarka and Kutch districts in the next 48 hours. A cyclonic circulation over south Gujarat region would bring heavy to very heavy rains in the districts like Navsari, Valsad over the next few days, it alerted. The forecast further said that light thunderstorm accompanied by lightning and surface wind at 40 kmph is likely in all the districts of Saurashtra-Kutch regions as well as in Diu, Daman, and Dadra Nagar Haveli for the next two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/breach-in-amrelis-triveni-dam/articleshow/77174409.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Delhi||Landfill heights reduced, claim two more corporations in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Two days after a controversy broke out regarding the reduction in height of the Ghazipur landfill site in east Delhi, the other two municipal corporations stated that they too have managed to reduce the height of landfills at Okhla and Bhalswa by around 12 meters through bio-mining and trommeling. South Delhi Municipal Corporation and North Delhi Municipal Corporation claimed that around 7 lakh MT of legacy waste had been cleared by engaging 20 trommel machines taking the cumulative waste removed by three civic bodies in the capital to 8.3 lakh metric tons.  A senior north civic body engineer, overseeing the operations, said that 5.75 lakh MT of waste had been removed at the Bhalswa site. “We are way ahead of the other two corporations. A total of 17 trommeling machines have processed 5.75 lakh MT of waste till Friday, with 4,200 MT of garbage being removed from the landfill each day. Two thounsand tons of fresh garbage is dumped at the site daily,” the official added. North corporation claims to have lifted around 78,000 tons of combustible paper and plastic, which has been used in cement plants and waste to energy plant at Bawana. The trommeling and bio-mining machines at the landfill sites were ordered by NGT, which had taken suo motu cognisance of a TOI report — ‘Below mountain of trash lies poison lakes’.  Trommel machines are situated near the base of the site with the legacy waste being removed from the base of the mounds, and not from the peak point. SDMC, meanwhile, in its action taken report claimed that height reduction of 12.5 metres had been achieved in landfill portions where four machines are located. Officials clarified that the height reduction was not being measured from the peak point, but from the portion where excavation was being carried out.  SDMC said that they’d removed around 1.25 lakh tons of legacy waste. “Constraint due to the non-disposal of output, such as inert and other components, gives us less space for installation of additional trommel machines. The south civic body sends the inert material to Tajpur Pahari and Badarpur Eco Park.  While work has begun on full flow, it seems impossible that at the current pace, the two-year deadline set by NGT to clear the mounds would be met. Fresh garbage that continues to be dumped on the three sites is also stalling the progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/landfill-heights-reduced-claim-2-more-corporations/articleshow/77175447.cms||Paras Singh
July 26, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu computer science graduate earning Rs 600/day selling tea feeds 30 poor daily||MADURAI: Six-hundred rupees is all that he earns in a day selling tea crisscrossing Alanganallur in Madurai on his rickety bicycle, but that hasn’t stopped Tamilarasan, 23, from sharing his modest income with people less fortunate than himself as he prepares and carries food packets with him every day to share a meal with the poor and needy on the streets. “Whenever I come across people on the roadside, it reminds me of the days when I was pleading for food in tattered clothes. When I cook, I prepare extra food. I carry 10 more packets with me during every meal and hand it over to those in need with a water bottle,” he said. Tamilarasan, who lost his parents when he was just one-and-half-years-old, was raised at a home in Aruppukkottai. He passed out with a bachelor’s degree in computer science from a college in Dindigul district and went to Chennai in 2017 with the dream of landing a job. He tried getting the job of installing CCTVs as he was good at it. But after trying in malls, textile showrooms and hotels, he learned it the hard way that connections do count in getting jobs. One night, towards the end of 2017, his bag containing his certificates, a pair of dress and Rs 2,000 were stolen. Faced with starvation, he started looking for food in garbage bins and eventually begged for money. After spending three years in Chennai, he came back to Madurai to try his luck. ‘Made Rs 2,000 a day selling tea during lockdown’He made Madurai railway junction his home but was chased away when the Covid-19 lockdown came into force. He moved to Alanganallur with Rs 7,300 in his hand. He wanted to get a shelter first, but people were not ready to rent out a place to a stranger. “A local youth helped me by speaking to a house owner to get a room at Rs 1,300 monthly rent. I did not meet him before or after that. I was thinking for a whole week what to do in life before I decided to start selling tea. There are many tea shops in the area but all of them were closed due to the lockdown and I saw an opportunity,” he said. Tamilarasan said he made Rs 2,000 daily during the lockdown, but his earnings dropped to Rs 600 as tea shops are now open. He tried to get Rs 1.5 lakh loan through Prime Minister Employment Generation Program to start a computer centre to help customers pay bills and access government services. Although it was approved by the district industries centre, the loan was rejected by Canara Bank for lack of documents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-computer-science-graduate-earning-rs-600/day-selling-tea-feeds-30-poor-daily/articleshow/77175487.cms||V Devanathan
July 26, 2020||Faridabad||Haryana’s coronavirus count crosses 30,000-mark||CHANDIGARH: Haryana’s Covid-19 count on Saturday reached 30,538 cases with 389 deaths, as 783 new patients and seven new deaths were reported during the day. In all, 701 patients recovered from the virus, taking the total number of recoveries in the state to 23,654. With the recovery rate reaching 77.46%, Haryana has 6,495 active cases, which include 237 critical patients. Of them, 170 are on oxygen support and rest are on ventilator. The number of Covid-19 tests carried out in Haryana reached 5,36,323, taking the testing rate to 21,157 tests per million. Faridabad got the highest number of new cases, 198, and three deaths. The district’s total rose to 7,474 with 120 deaths. With 109 new recoveries, the number of recoveries in Faridabad rose to 5,782. There are 1,572 active patients. Rewari recorded the second hightest total during the day with 125 new patients, with which the district’s tally increased to 1,340. The district administration has started weekend restrictions by invoking prohibitory orders. Gurugram continued to head the tally with a total of 8,491 cases and 120 deaths. The district got 98 new patients and 128 recoveries. With this, the number of patients who have recovered in Gurugram reached 7,239. Palwal reported 56 new patients, while Sonipat and Panipat got 50 patients each. A death was also reported in Sonipat, where the overall total reached 2,718 cases with 31 deaths. Also, there were 48 new cases in Hisar, 34 in Mahindergarh, 27 in Ambala, 23 in Panchkula, 18 in Jhajjar, 15 in Rohtak, 11 in Jind, eight in Kurukshetra, six in Nuh, four each in Bhiwani, Fatehabad and Yamunanagar, three in Sirsa, and one in Kaithal. A death each was also reported in Ambala and Rohtak. The state government’s Covid-19 bulletin revealed that 73,590 persons have completed quarantine. Kurukshetra recorded a death too during the day, said district officials. However, the figure had not been added to the state tally when this report was filed. “A 79-year-old man of Layalpur Basti, Kurukshetra, died of Covid-19 at Alchemist Hospital, Panchkula, on Saturday. The patient was admitted there on July 16 and had a heart disease,” said civil surgeon Dr Sukhbir Singh. (Inputs from Kurukshetra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/haryanas-coronavirus-count-crosses-30k-mark/articleshow/77179999.cms||Manvir Saini
July 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana’s coronavirus count crosses 30,000-mark||CHANDIGARH: Haryana’s Covid-19 count on Saturday reached 30,538 cases with 389 deaths, as 783 new patients and seven new deaths were reported during the day. In all, 701 patients recovered from the virus, taking the total number of recoveries in the state to 23,654. With the recovery rate reaching 77.46%, Haryana has 6,495 active cases, which include 237 critical patients. Of them, 170 are on oxygen support and rest are on ventilator. The number of Covid-19 tests carried out in Haryana reached 5,36,323, taking the testing rate to 21,157 tests per million. Faridabad got the highest number of new cases, 198, and three deaths. The district’s total rose to 7,474 with 120 deaths. With 109 new recoveries, the number of recoveries in Faridabad rose to 5,782. There are 1,572 active patients. Rewari recorded the second hightest total during the day with 125 new patients, with which the district’s tally increased to 1,340. The district administration has started weekend restrictions by invoking prohibitory orders. Gurugram continued to head the tally with a total of 8,491 cases and 120 deaths. The district got 98 new patients and 128 recoveries. With this, the number of patients who have recovered in Gurugram reached 7,239. Palwal reported 56 new patients, while Sonipat and Panipat got 50 patients each. A death was also reported in Sonipat, where the overall total reached 2,718 cases with 31 deaths. Also, there were 48 new cases in Hisar, 34 in Mahindergarh, 27 in Ambala, 23 in Panchkula, 18 in Jhajjar, 15 in Rohtak, 11 in Jind, eight in Kurukshetra, six in Nuh, four each in Bhiwani, Fatehabad and Yamunanagar, three in Sirsa, and one in Kaithal. A death each was also reported in Ambala and Rohtak. The state government’s Covid-19 bulletin revealed that 73,590 persons have completed quarantine. Kurukshetra recorded a death too during the day, said district officials. However, the figure had not been added to the state tally when this report was filed. “A 79-year-old man of Layalpur Basti, Kurukshetra, died of Covid-19 at Alchemist Hospital, Panchkula, on Saturday. The patient was admitted there on July 16 and had a heart disease,” said civil surgeon Dr Sukhbir Singh. (Inputs from Kurukshetra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryanas-coronavirus-count-crosses-30k-mark/articleshow/77175505.cms||Manvir Saini
July 26, 2020||Chandigarh||NGT seeks report on illegal mining along Yamuna||Yamunanagar: In connection with an ongoing case related to illegal mining on the Yamuna, the principal bench of National Green Tribunal (NGT), New Delhi, asked the district administrations of Yamunanagar in Haryana and Shamli in Uttar Pradesh (UP) to submit factual and action taken reports on the issue within three months. The NGT was hearing a petition filed by Yamunanagar-based Kiral Pal Rana of Kanalsi village. He is the president of Yamuna Sewa Samiti. The tribunal took up the matter via videoconferencing on July 15. The NGT bench comprised chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel, judicial member Justice SP Wangdi, and expert members Satyawan Singh Garbyal and Nagin Nanda. In the hearing of the application 87/2020 to take measures against illegal mechanized in-stream riverbed mining on the banks of Yamuna near Gumthala north and south blocks in Yamunanagar district of Haryana and Nangla Rai village in Kairana block of Shamli district in Uttar Pradesh (UP), the NGT sought factual and action taken report against illegal mining by the joint committees of both states. “Before considering the matter further, let joint committees comprising CPCB (Central Pollution Control Board), Haryana State PCB and district magistrate (DM) of Yamunanagar with regard to the area in Haryana and CPCB, UP State PCB and district magistrate of Shamli with regard to the area in UP furnish a factual and action taken report in the matter within three months by email,” states the order passed by NGT on July 15, 2020. Following NGT directions, Yamunanagar DM Mukul Kumar on Friday held a meeting with officials concerned at his office to discuss the matter and take further action. The teams of district administration and HSPCB have started an investigation into illegal mining along the Yamuna. Kiran Pal said, “We filed the petition after the mining mafia exploited the Yamuna and its tributary Somb in our village. They left about 30-40-foot-deep pits in the riverbed. In the last few years, we have lost about four children of our village who drowned in these pits. They even mined cultivable, village land. We have been raising a voice against illegal mining for about eight years.” Kumar said, “The NGT has directed us to conduct site inspections and take action against any incidents of illegal mining on the Yamuna and report the factual position. A meeting of officials of irrigation and water resources department, mining department, and state pollution board was called at my office on Friday and the matter was discussed upon to take further action accordingly. To prevent mining, the administration has already constituted teams. The irrigation departments regularly check every week to ensure no illegal bunds are made on the Yamuna and the mining department also does similar checking. If anything comes to our notice, we take action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ngt-seeks-report-on-illegal-mining-along-yamuna/articleshow/77175483.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Lucknow||Moratorium on arrears of state staff & pensioners till Sept 30||Lucknow: Doing a balancing act between expenditure and revenue receipts, the Uttar Pradesh government on Saturday froze arrears of employees and pensioners till September 30, which marks the halfway fiscal mark. Additional chief secretary, finance, Sanjiv Mittal, issued the order, categorically stating that due to falling revenue receipts post-lockdown and to maintain cash balance, the government would extend the moratorium on payment of employee arrears from June 30 till September 20. There are nearly 18 lakh employees, including corporation and 10 lakh pensioners in the state. Also, no department can issue financial approval for major construction work or land acquisition till September 30 without prior consent of the finance department, states the order accessed by TOI. Also, no new project would be launched unless the financial health of the state improves. A spokesman of the department confirmed to TOI about remedial measures to maintain cash management. Declining revenue receipts have been a cause of concern since lockdown was clamped in March to check spread of coronavirus. Earlier, the finance department had clarified that tour and travels of state staff would be allowed in very rare circumstances, nobody can fly executive class and no extravagance would be allowed. The state government has already scrapped seven types of allowances to employees. In another decision to replenish state coffers through increased liquor sale, the excise department not only allowed liquor sale outside containment zones, but issued another order on Saturday stating that malls can sell foreign liquor. The cash management order was issued due to revenue shortage because of special circumstances arising out of lockdown for which additional funds were required to manage the pandemic and other essential work. In ordinary circumstances, administrative departments are empowered to issue financial sanctions for projects as per their budgetary allocations. An official clarified that payments to medical and health staff, salaries for police and government officials, teachers would be made regularly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/moratorium-on-arrears-of-state-staff-pensioners-till-sept-30/articleshow/77176319.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Jaipur||Minor girl accuses 10 teachers of gangrape in Alwar||ALWAR: A 13-year-old girl was gangraped allegedly by her teachers at a school in Narayanpur town under Thanagaji police station area of Alwar district. What is more shocking is that the accused teachers threatened the family to keep mum. According to police, the family of the rape survivor approached Thanagazi police station and registered a case stating that 10 teachers including the director of the school raped the girl. The family has also named three women teachers of putting pressure on the family not to lodge a case. Soon after lodging the case under appropriate sections of POCSO Act and IPC, SP Tejaswini Gautam reached the residence of the rape survivor. “I have directed my team to take action as soon as possible. The girl was also examined by a team of doctors and her statements will be recorded,” Gautam said. Police after registering the case handed over the investigation to ASP Shailendra Indolia. “We have registered a case against 10 teachers including the director of the school. A separate case against three women teachers have also bee lodged for putting pressure on the family,” said an officer. “The minor told the family that Balvir Singh, the director of the school, had raped her several times at school and at home. She alleged that other teachers including Satish Sharma, Prakash Saini, Kapil Saini, Bhavani Singh Shekhawat, Chitramal Saini, Neeraj, Puran Yadav, Yadram and driver Mukesh also raped her. The victim alleged that teachers Anita Shekhawat, Jyoti Jangid, Khamos Yadav remained silent despite knowing about it,” said a senior officer. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minor-girl-accuses-10-teachers-of-gangraping-her/articleshow/77176316.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Agra||Health dept to conduct Covid-19 testing at 28 centres||AGRA: Following orders of the state government to increase Covid-19 testing, the Agra district health department has established rapid antigen testing facility at 28 centres in the district. Around 10 testing facilities will operate at 10 different primary health centres (PHC) in the city areas and 18 community health centres (CHC) in rural areas. Tests will be conducted after screening of the symptomatic patient. According to the health department officials, result of the antigen test will come in around 20 minutes. It is a test on nasal swab samples that detects antigens (foreign substances that induce an immune response in the body) that are found on or within the novel coronavirus. It is a point-of-care test, performed outside the conventional laboratory setting, and is used to quickly obtain a diagnostic result. Chief medical officer of Agra district Dr RC Pandey said, “Anyone suffering from fever, problem in breathing or sore throat can come for Covid-19 screening at 10 PHCs in the city or any of the 18 CHCs in the district. Patients will be provided on the spot test report. Medicines will also be provided to the patients suffering common illness.” In city areas, Covid-19 testing will be done at PHC Vibhav Nagar, Bindhu Katra, Shahganj, Taajganj, Naraich, Jeevani Mandi, Ram Nagar, Nagla Padi and at two centres in Lohamandi locality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/health-dept-to-conduct-covid-19-testing-at-28-centres/articleshow/77173223.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana’s coronavirus count crosses 30,000-mark||CHANDIGARH: Haryana’s Covid-19 count on Saturday reached 30,538 cases with 389 deaths, as 783 new patients and seven new deaths were reported during the day. In all, 701 patients recovered from the virus, taking the total number of recoveries in the state to 23,654. With the recovery rate reaching 77.46%, Haryana has 6,495 active cases, which include 237 critical patients. Of them, 170 are on oxygen support and rest are on ventilator. The number of Covid-19 tests carried out in Haryana reached 5,36,323, taking the testing rate to 21,157 tests per million. Faridabad got the highest number of new cases, 198, and three deaths. The district’s total rose to 7,474 with 120 deaths. With 109 new recoveries, the number of recoveries in Faridabad rose to 5,782. There are 1,572 active patients. Rewari recorded the second hightest total during the day with 125 new patients, with which the district’s tally increased to 1,340. The district administration has started weekend restrictions by invoking prohibitory orders. Gurugram continued to head the tally with a total of 8,491 cases and 120 deaths. The district got 98 new patients and 128 recoveries. With this, the number of patients who have recovered in Gurugram reached 7,239. Palwal reported 56 new patients, while Sonipat and Panipat got 50 patients each. A death was also reported in Sonipat, where the overall total reached 2,718 cases with 31 deaths. Also, there were 48 new cases in Hisar, 34 in Mahindergarh, 27 in Ambala, 23 in Panchkula, 18 in Jhajjar, 15 in Rohtak, 11 in Jind, eight in Kurukshetra, six in Nuh, four each in Bhiwani, Fatehabad and Yamunanagar, three in Sirsa, and one in Kaithal. A death each was also reported in Ambala and Rohtak. The state government’s Covid-19 bulletin revealed that 73,590 persons have completed quarantine. Kurukshetra recorded a death too during the day, said district officials. However, the figure had not been added to the state tally when this report was filed. “A 79-year-old man of Layalpur Basti, Kurukshetra, died of Covid-19 at Alchemist Hospital, Panchkula, on Saturday. The patient was admitted there on July 16 and had a heart disease,” said civil surgeon Dr Sukhbir Singh. (Inputs from Kurukshetra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryanas-coronavirus-count-crosses-30k-mark/articleshow/77179997.cms||Manvir Saini
July 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Contagion helps sanitary workers earn respect||Coimbatore: Much to her pleasant surprise, 49-year-old Padma, a contract sanitary worker with Periyanaickenpalayam panchayat, has of late noticed a change in the attitude of people, who had hitherto not bothered to talk to her. Breaking the barrier, they have started appreciating her work. This is something she hadn’t earlier experienced in her 20 years as a sanitary worker. While her job portfolio remains the same as earlier – she pushes carts along with a co-worker through the streets of Periyanaickenpalayam, collecting garbage from residents at their door steps – the change in people’s attitude could be attributed to the Covid-19 pandemic.Padma says, “Dignity is what we expected from people all these years. Now, I think the society has started to treat us with dignity. It just makes me feel important.”She was one of the respondents of the rapid assessment survey that was carried out by the Tamil Nadu Urban Sanitation and Support Programme, a technical support unit of the state government on sanitation, in association with Praxis Institute for Participatory Practises, a non-government organization, in April to assess their economic condition and find out how they were being treated after the lockdown.As part of the survey, they had interviewed 20 sanitary workers in the two town panchayats of Periyanaickenpalayam and Narasimanaickenpalayam in the district and another 25 in Trichy.According to the survey, 82% of the sanitary workers have expressed confidence that the society would treat them with dignity after the pandemic.The workers have now realized their self-worth, which has further motivated them to do their work better, says Blessy Merlin Oviya, one of the survey coordinators.“During the survey, we found workers were worried about managing their expenses with the existing salary, if there is an increase in prices of essential commodities. Most of them had taken loans from micro financiers and are paying monthly interest on that,” she said. About 39 survey respondents were temporary workers, who earn just Rs 10,000 a month. The permanent workers, meanwhile, earn Rs 17,000 to Rs 20,000 monthly.“We are happy that the society has started to accept us. We also expect the government to increase our salary and provide us some benefits, as we are risking our lives and working during the pandemic,” says Padma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/contagion-helps-sanitary-workers-earn-respect/articleshow/77175486.cms||Nivedha Selvam
July 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Ukkadam fish market closed for violating Covid-19 norms||Coimbatore: City corporation commissioner J Sravan Kumar conducted a surprise inspection at the wholesale fish market at Lorrypet near Ukkadam in the early hours of Saturday and ordered the officials to close the market for violating the government norms to contain the Covid-19 spread. A corporation source, who didn’t want to be named, said, “A huge crowd had gathered in the market, throwing social distancing norms to wind. Some people were not wearing face masks. The corporation commissioner then directed officials to close the market.” Subsequently, the traders were asked to close the market immediately. “A decision on reopening the market is yet to be made,” the source said.The crowd, he said, might have gathered in large numbers because of the complete lockdown from 5pm on Saturday to 6am on Monday. HS Bawa, president, Coimbatore District Fish Traders’ Association, said, “From our side, we have been creating awareness on the importance of maintaining social distancing and wearing face masks among the people by way of public announcements and posters. We have also changed the market timings from 4am-12pm to 1am-7am based on the official direction to prevent crowding.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ukkadam-fish-market-closed-for-violating-covid-19-norms/articleshow/77175482.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Police charges Sharjeel Imam with sedition in CAA case||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has filed the first chargesheet against Sharjeel Imam, a PhD scholar at Jawaharlal Nehru University, who was booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for sedition and for allegedly promoting enmity among communities. He is alleged to have been seditious for asking people during the stir against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act to indulge in unlawful activities and block the chicken-neck Siliguri corridor in north Bengal to isolate north-east India from the rest of the country. Police have also sought the Union government’s permission to invoke Section 45 of UAPA in addition to Section 13 already invoked against Imam. Under Section 45, a court cannot take cognisance of any offence committed by the accused without the previous sanction of the central government. Police sources say that apart from Imam’s controversial speeches in Delhi and Aligarh, the Crime Branch had also retrieved two other videos of his oratory in Asansol and Chakhand Gaya in which he is alleged to have incited people to block roads and create disruption. In all four, the JNU student called for a chakka jam (road obstruction) on arterial roads to halt the supply of essentials goods and thus bring the government to its knees. The 600-page chargesheet states that Imam, in his speeches, defied the Constitution of India, calling it a “fascist” document. A forensics team has analysed the four videos and matched them with the voice samples collected from Imam, the chargesheet said, which also maintained that the anti-CAA protests that began in Jamia Millia Islamia and culminated in February’s riots in northeast Delhi was part of a bigger conspiracy hatched byJ Imam and his associates. Imam has been charged under IPC Section 124A (sedition), 153(A) (promoting enmity), 153 (assertion prejudicial to national integration, promoting enmity and hatred between communities), 505 (spreading rumours) and under Section 13 of UAPA. Imam, who is pursuing a doctoral degree in modern history from JNU, was arrested on January 28 from his village by Delhi Police’s Crime Branch team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-police-charges-sharjeel-with-sedition-in-caa-case/articleshow/77176320.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Impart judicial trainingto officials: HC to Telangana govt||HYDERABAD: Perplexed at the enormity of confusion and conflicting orders being passed by civil authorities who are also performing quasi-judicial roles as part of their duties, the Telangana high court has directed the state government to impart judicial training to officials. The officials are primarily from the departments of revenue, cooperative, labour and commercial taxes, who are entrusted with playing judicial role at times. The state government should act with a sense of urgency in the matter, said Justice K Lakshman while marking a copy of this judgment to the chief secretary. “This is essential for proper dispensation of justice in a manner established by law,” he said in his judgment pronounced after hearing a tussle between Vardhaman Mahila Cooperative Urban Bank and its employee A Vijaya Kumari. The dispute pertains to recovery of some amount from the salary of Vijaya Kumari who was charged with misusing Rs 11 lakh from the bank. An additional registrar from the cooperatives department who acted as an administrative member of the cooperative tribunal gave conflicting orders that led to several rounds of vexatious litigation. There were also allegations of changing dates on the docket orders, etc. Justice Lakshman concluded that this was happening because the officers performing the role of tribunals in their departments were not aware of the ways of justice dispensation. “They are forgetting the fact that they are pronouncing judicial orders that are amenable to judicial review by the judges of the high court,” he said. He also reminded the executive that judges right from the junior civil judges level get proper training at the judicial academis. The officials primarily from the departments of revenue, cooperative, labour and commercial taxes, are entrusted with playing judicial role at times||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/impart-judicial-trainingto-officials-hc-to-t-govt/articleshow/77175492.cms||M Sagar Kumar
July 26, 2020||Agra||UP: 784 water bodies revived in semi-arid Mathura, bring cheer to parched villages||AGRA: For years, Archana Devi would spend her morning walking several kilometres to fetch water. The family in Mathura’s Farah block had no piped water connection and the only pond in their area ran dry. Often, children would miss school to help their mother. But that was until this year. Now the pond in their block — the source of drinking water for 5,000-odd families in the area — is again replete with water. “There is no need to go looking for water any more. What we get in the pond is drinkable and fresh,” said Archana. The pond in Farah is among 784 natural water bodies in Mathura that have been rejuvenated under a Rs 6 crore project by the district administration. These also include ponds of religious importance like the Kamal Kund and the Narad Kund. The revival of water bodies in the semi-arid region has also improved the groundwater table and quenched the thirst of several parched blocks. A study by jal nigam (Agra division) conducted in January this year found successful groundwater recharge in Mathura. “Water level in certain areas has risen by 60 cm and the total dissolved solids (TDS) levels have gone down by an average of 84 ppm,” said the study. Chief development officer (CDO) Nitin Gaur told TOI that poor water quality due to industrial pollution from Delhi and the ever-increasing dependency on groundwater had led to depleted water table across the district. “While three blocks were declared ‘over exploited’, one block was found to be ‘critical’. We decided to rejuvenate the water bodies,” said Gaur, adding that where the ponds were close to the river, water channels were dug to fetch river water, while pumps were used at some places to fill up the ponds. Gaur said water bodies play an important role in maintaining and restoring the ecological balance. They act as sources of drinking water, recharge groundwater and control floods. Out of 2,015 ponds listed in the revenue records after Independence, 1,062 were identified and of these, 784 have been filled with water. Officials said the remaining ponds are either under litigation due to “illegal encroachment” by villagers or require more funds and efforts for rejuvenation due to their physiography.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/784-water-bodies-revived-in-semi-arid-mathura-bring-cheer-to-parched-villages/articleshow/77173220.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
July 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Positives in Covid antigen tests down from 6% to 0.7%||AHMEDABAD: Since the lockdown was lifted, the civic body has conducted two rounds of Covid antigen tests on people linked to essentials services, who come into contact with many people as part of their work. These include shopkeepers, bank employees, factory workers and vendors. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) now says that the Covid positivity rate among such people has come down from 6% in the first round of tests till June 30, to a mere 0.7% in the second round which began on July 1. Some 12,206 antigen tests were done in the first round and 24,422 in the second. Municipal officials say that the real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests which can determine viral load -- a major factor in higher rates of transmission of the virus – have not been done as part of active surveillance for several weeks. Antigen test kits can’t determine viral load in individuals. “The RT-PCR test kits are six times more expensive than antigen tests, but are provided to us by the state government via NIV. The AMC does not bear that cost. We conduct RT-PCR tests only when individuals come to hospitals, while private labs conduct these tests for a price. The antigen tests, using kits made in Germany or South Korea, are widely done by the AMC,” said a senior AMC official. The first round of surveillance of vendors was undertaken when the overall RT-PCR test positivity rate in the city was over 30%. “We started a second round from July 1, when the positivity rate had come down below 5% due to the integrated Covid management strategy,” added the AMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/positives-in-antigen-tests-down-from-6-to-0-7/articleshow/77175551.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Bhopal||Shivraj tests positive for Covid, admitted to hosp||Bhopal: Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has tested positive for Covid-19 – the first CM to be infected by the virus. He has been admitted to a private hospital. Chouhan, 61, disclosed it in a tweet just after noon on Saturday: “I had symptoms of Covid-19. My test report came back positive. I appeal to all my colleagues and all those who came in contact with me to get themselves tested for Coronavirus. My close contacts have moved into quarantine.” Chouhan tweeted, “I am following all Covid-19 guidelines. I will quarantine myself following medical advice… I appeal to the people of my state to be careful. The slightest of carelessness invites Coronavirus infection. I made every effort to avoid Covid-19 but people meet me for various reasons.” Two days ago, his cabinet colleague Arvind Bhadoria had tested positive for Covid-19 just hours after attending a cabinet meeting chaired by the CM. Bhadoria and Chouhan were also together at the last rites of Governor Lalji Tandon in Lucknow, which was attended by defence minister Rajnath Singh and UP Governor and MP acting Governor Anandiben Patel. BJP state chief VD Sharma, who was at the same event and had travelled with Bhadoria has tested negative. Chouhan has been admitted to Chirayu Medical College in Bhopal, said home minister Narottam Mishra. “As the CM tweeted, he took all protective measures to avoid infection. His medical update will be available on Thursday evening,” he said. The CM’s health is ‘absolutely stable’, Chirayu medical college director Dr Ajay Goenka said in the evening. “His health parameters are stable. He only has Covid-19 and his medical condition, sugar levels and oxygen saturation are normal,” said Dr Goenka. “Line of treatment is not defined in Covid-19. It is Novel Coronavirus, and unpredictable. As we speak, the patient’s condition is stable,” he added. Former CM Kamal Nath wished him a quick recovery, and tweeted: “I pray to God that he gets well soon.” BJP Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia tweeted: “I hope you recover quickly and get back to serving the people of Madhya Pradesh.” A number of people who came in contact with Chouhan are now expected to get tested for Covid-19. Sources say he has had one-on-one meetings with 17 cabinet ministers in the last couple of days. All nine ministers from Indore-Ujjain division have quarantined themselves. The CM said he would continue working despite his illness. “I have been reviewing the status of Corona infection every evening since March 25. I will try to review Coronavirus through video conferencing as much as possible now.” Chouhan tweeted that in his absence, four ministers would supervise the battle against Covid-19 – Narottam Mishra, Bhupendra Singh (urban development), Vishwas Sarang (medical education) Prabhuram Choudhary (health). Congress veteran Digvijaya Singh wished him a quick recovery and tweeted: “I am sorry to hear that you are infected with Coronavirus. I pray that God helps you recover quickly. You should have observed social distancing but you didn’t. Do take care of yourself.” Earlier in the day, AIIMS-Bhopal authorities were updated of the CM’s medical condition and spoke with additional chief secretary, health, Mohammed Suleman ahead of Chouhan’s admission to the private hospital. A government statement said Chouhan has been admitted to Chirayu so that other patients don’t face any difficulty, pointing out that patients suffering from other illnesses are at Gandhi Medical College and AIIMS. “If required we are there for support,” said AIIMS-Bhopal director Dr Sarman Singh. Sources say a senior official had sought information about possibility of VVIPs seeking treatment for Covid-19 at various Bhopal hospitals, and a dossier of private hospital beds was prepared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/shivraj-tests-positive-for-covid-admitted-to-hosp/articleshow/77175516.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid patients discharged early to free up more beds||Coimbatore: The hospitals and Covid care centres in the district have reduced the hospitalization duration for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients and those with mild symptoms in line with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)’s revised discharge policy to make beds available for patients who really need them.Now, asymptomatic patients are discharged as early as six days into their hospitalization that too without subjecting them for a second test for a negative certificate. Those with mild and moderate symptoms could be sent home 10 days after the onset of symptoms if they don’t have any symptoms.In April and May, even asymptomatic patients were hospitalized for at least 12 days. They had to take Covid-19 test for a negative certificate to get discharged.District collector K Rajamani, who was mildly symptomatic, was discharged on the sixth day of hospitalization last week. MLA Amman Arjunan was also discharged in a week. Sources said asymptomatic patients in Covid care centres too were sent home after seven days with an advice to remain in home quarantine for another 14 days. The asymptomatic and those with mild symptoms are also not made to undergo the test again for a negative certificate.While deputy director of public health Dr G Ramesh Kumar has been insisting on keeping all patients in the district in institutional quarantine for at least 10 days, officials say it is a conscious policy decision to reserve hospital beds, including those in private hospitals, for only those who really need them. “We now keep asymptomatic patients only for seven days to ensure new symptoms are not developing. This is the new ICMR protocol and guideline,” says Dr Murali, of PSG Hospitals, which is treating around 280 Covid-19 patients. They have allotted 520 beds for the purpose.The situation is similar in other districts too. In Trichy, the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital keeps patients with even cough and fever only for a maximum of seven days. In Madurai, all asymptomatic patients are discharged in a week. Chennai had begun discharging symptomatic patients in the risk age group after five days of hospitalization, when cases peaked in June.With Covid-19 cases surging in the district, public health officers say, this is the accepted way to use resources better. Dr P Kolandaisamy, former director of public health, said, “Across the world, when beds are likely to become short, people are even recommending complete home quarantine for asymptomatic patients. So, in five days, if the patient develops no symptoms, we can send them home, carefully monitor their quarantine and ask them to take care of their health.”If patients develop any symptoms while in home quarantine, they are asked to return to hospitals or inform the 1077 helpline immediately for guidance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-patients-discharged-early-to-free-up-more-beds/articleshow/77175514.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Industrialists seek to make e-pass process simple||Coimbatore: Industrialists in the city said they were unable to travel to other districts for business purposes as they were not being issued e-passes.Pointing out that they were issued e-passes through the district industries centre (DIC) for inter-district travel in the initial stages of the lockdown, they said that has stopped.Micro and small industrialists said they had to travel across the state for fitting machines, attending to problems and collecting payments. “Industrial units are making and selling several machines, including pumps and motors, which need fitting and maintenance. It is essential for us to travel to other districts,” said J James, district president, Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises. “While we are allowed to function, we are not allowed to travel for business purposes. This is as good as not allowing us to function,” he said.G Krithiha, an industrialist, expressed a similar view. “Recently, I got a call from a client in Erode, asking us to visit them for a post-sales service. I had to ask them to arrange people locally, as we couldn’t travel. Industries also can’t stop operations due to a faulty machine.”Presently, the e-pass procedure is complicated and it has to be approved by the administration officials of the destination district, she said. “Officials here would approve our e-pass requests. But officials in other districts won’t.”Industrialists had taken up the issue with the district administration officials and sought to issue e-passes through DIC while making the process simple. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/industrialists-seek-to-make-e-pass-process-simple/articleshow/77175502.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmers leave no stone unturned to make July 27 protest success||Bathinda: To make the big protest planned for July 27, to show the central government their displeasure at the three ordinances, farmers are leaving no stone unturned. Hundreds of activists of 13 farm organisations are out in the villages to mobilise farmers for the proposed tractor marches towards the homes of Shiromano Akali Dal (SAD)-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MPs and MLAs. The burning of effigies and dhol (drum beating) marches are being undertaken in villages ahead of the protest on Monday. They have rejected the assurances of SAD president Sukhbir Badal that he would take farmers to Union agriculture minister. To prove his support, farmers insisted Sukhbir must protest or hold morcha against ordinances. The farmers state that the ordinances are anti-farmer, as they fear that the regime of the minimum support price (MSP) will be taken away after the ordinances. Earlier, two farm organisations, BKU Rajewal and BKU Lakhowal, with am Aadmi Party held tractor marches on July 20 and another farm organisation kisan sangharsh committee held tractor protests on July 21. Apart from three ordinances, the farmers are also opposing the proposed electricity amendment bill and regular hike in petroleum prices. The farm organisations claimed that opposing these anti farmer ordinances is matter of survival for them. BKU Ugrahan general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri said, with the three amendments, generations of farmers will be affected. “The Union government is playing double game by making claims of doubling farm income but in reality, it wants to cause immense loss to farmers,” he added. Kirti kisan union vice-president Rajinder Singh said the Union government through these ordinances wants to abolish MSP regime, which will not be tolerated. Krantiokari kisan union convener Darshan Pal said. “We want these amendments to be withdrawn. The farmers also want the proposed electricity amendment bill to be withdrawn immediately and prices of diesel should be decreased.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-leave-no-stone-unturned-to-make-july-27-protest-success/articleshow/77175511.cms||Neel Kamal
July 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Discoms switch to digital mode for power complaints||NEW DELHI: This monsoon, you can report any disruptions in power supply with a missed call, WhatsApp message, SMS or mobile application. Power discoms have come up with several digital solutions for consumers to register their complaints swiftly and in a hassle-free manner. A spokesperson for Tata Power-DDL, which supplies electricity in north Delhi, said that the rainy season poses multiple challenges for uninterrupted power supply as the network can get damaged by heavy rains, strong winds or falling of trees on overhead power lines. “Such situations call for immediate action by the power utility staff for faster maintenance and restoration of supply in the least possible time. The key to this is the smart and swift No Power Supply registration process,” he said. Tata Power-DDL said it has strengthened its No Power Supply registration process, which now includes missed calls at 9619619124 through the registered mobile number, WhatsApp at 7303482071, through its mobile application TPDDL Connect, website and SMS Services. “This will make the registration process lightning fast,” he said. He added that these services involve no cost to the consumer. BSES Rajdhani Power Limited (BRPL) and BSES Yamuna Power Limited (BYPL) have also come up with several digital modes as part of their ‘monsoon action plan’ through which consumers can reach them immediately. BRPL and BYPL consumers can register their complaints through the BSES mobile application, through WhatsApp 9999919123 (BRPL) and 8745999808 (BYPL), apart from SMS on 5616107 (BRPL) and 5616108 (BYPL). Consumers can also contact the discoms at existing toll-free helplines – 19123 (BRPL), 19122 (BYPL) and 19124 (Tata Power-DDL). “The company has also been using its social media handles to create awareness about safety measures to be taken during monsoon season. We are urging consumers to use ISI marked wires and cables, install Earth-leakage circuit breaker to prevent shocks and report any unsafe situation to the company on 19124 helpline,” the Tata Power-DDL spokesperson said. A BSES spokesperson said that the discom has taken several active measures to minimise the accumulation of moisture in the grids and panels. “Our monsoon action plan has an integrated and proactive approach, which not only ensures safety, but also minimises the down time of power supply during the monsoon,” a BSES spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/discoms-switch-to-digital-mode-for-power-complaints/articleshow/77175628.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Lockdown-hit folk artists go live to keep tradition alive||Coimbatore: While they are unable to conduct live shows, folk artistes in the region are performing online for worldwide audience. The artists used to perform string puppetry, shadow puppetry and therukkoothu (folk theatre) in festivals held from the Tamil months of Thai to Aadi (mid-January to mid-August). They were waiting for the season to pick up in March, when the Covid-19 lockdown was imposed.To help them tide over the situation, Kalari Heritage and Charitable Trust, a Salem-based forum that archives folk art forms and supports artists, has been organising online performances. Since the lockdown, it has held five string puppetry and shadow puppetry performances such as Anuman Thoodhu, Seethai Kalyanam, Kovalan Sarithiram, Nalla Thangaal Sarithiram and Harichandra, and also uploaded the videos online.Founder of the forum M Harikrishnan said they were organising programmes by themselves and also in collaboration with other Tamil forums in Singapore, Canada and the US. “While other people might work from home, these artists have no other way. Instead of giving them funds or food, we are giving them opportunities and also pay them,” he said. “So far, we have engaged 70 artistes in Salem, Erode, and Namakkal — around 12 artistes per performance.”“At this time of crisis, when people are more prone to stress, art can be a support and can provide them with recreation. Also, only if language and art are practised continuously, we would connect with them and there can be growth in the field. Youngsters say they were not exposed to these art forms. We are recording performances and uploading them on YouTube, so everyone can watch them,” he said.The online performances are giving them opportunities amid the lockdown, the artists said. Earlier, they used to get around three performances per week. Now, the initiative ensures at least one performance and helps them manage their family.Speaking of the difference between performing live and virtually, N Raja from Omalur in Salem, who plays Mugaveenai, a wind instrument, for string and shadow puppetry performances, said he misses the excitement and instant appreciation of live performances. “But that wouldn’t stop us. This is art and we can perform anywhere,” the 41-year-old man, who has been performing for 3 decades, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/lockdown-hit-folk-artists-go-live-to-keep-tradition-alive/articleshow/77175491.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Chandigarh||HSPCB collects samples of effluents released into Western Jamuna Canal||Yamunanagar: Over the last three days, officials of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) visited and inspected spots where effluents are being discharged into the Western Jamuna Canal. The inspection was conducted on the directions of Yamunanagar district administration. On July 17, the irrigation and water resources department (IRWD) served final notice to four departments and warned them of registration of an FIR if they failed to stop discharge of sewerage and domestic effluents into the WJC from about 20 different spots. After this, HSPCB officials inspected the spots and collected samples of polluted water released into the WJC. The samples have been sent to a laboratory in Panchkula for examination. On Saturday, HSPCB regional officer of Yamunanagar, Nirmal Kashyap said they found 22 spots from where effluents are being released into the canal. “Out of 22, two spots have been identified from where water is being released into the WJC by the public health engineering department after treating it in its sewerage treatment plant. Apart from these, there are 20 spots where untreated water is being discharged directly into the WJC. Much of it is being contributed by the municipal corporation, Jagadhri-Yamunanagar,” Nirmal said. He also said the deputy commissioner is aware of the matter. “There is no doubt that Yamunanagar is polluting the surroundings and Yamuna river. The effluents released into the WJC are harmful to flora and fauna and also has adverse impact on human health,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hspcb-collects-samples-of-effluents-released-into-western-jamuna-canal/articleshow/77175495.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Three octogenarians in Latur recover from Covid-19||Aurangabad: “I had heard about this ‘Mahamari’ (pandemic) that was killing people like the plague in the old times. I never thought that the disease will affect me or my husband one day,” says a woman over 80-years-old with shaky voice. She is among the three octogenarians from Latur who have successfully recovered from Covid-19. The other two elderly persons are her husband and a relative who stays in the same neighbourhood. The woman and her husband, residents of Sham Nagar in Latur, had tested positive for Covid 19 on July 13. They were believed to have caught the infection from their relative and immediate neighbour who had tested positive on July 6.The 40-year old grandson of the elderly couple said his grandparents did not show any severe symptoms of Covid-19. “My grandfather had a cold and grandmother had body ache. At first, we did not worry much. However, when their neighbour tested positive, we sensed an emergency,” he said. After undergoing Covid-19 tests, the elderly couple confirmed positive for the contagion. The octogenarians were admitted to the state-run Covid care centre and responded well to treatment. While both the male patients were showing some weakness after recovery, the woman was by-and-large stable.Ajay Kalshetti from the social group Prabhuraj Foundation, said the recovery of the three veterans had boosted everyone’s morale. “We celebrated the return of the elderly couple on Friday. We should not panic if we get Covid-19 as the disease can be defeated with proper care,” said Kalshetti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/three-octogenarians-in-latur-recover-from-covid-19/articleshow/77173250.cms||Prasad Joshi
July 26, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab Covid death toll nears 300, Faridkot IG among 468 positive||CHANDIGARH: Punjab reported 468 new positive cases of Covid-19 and nine deaths due to the virus on Saturday, taking the state’s tally to 12,684 and the casualty count to 291. Faridkot range inspector general of police Kaustubh Sharma was also among those whose reports came positive for coronavirus infection. Four Covid-19 patients breathed their last in Ludhiana district and one each in Jalandhar, Ferozepur, Barnala, Amritsar and Ropar districts. Ludhiana reported the highest number of new cases, 155. It was followed by 55 cases in Amritsar, 40 in Patiala, 38 in Sangrur, 32 in Mohali, 29 in Jalandhar, 18 each in Barnala and Bathinda, 16 in Gurdaspur, and 10 each in Kapurthala, Faridkot, Fatehgarh Sahib and Ferozepur districts. Also, 201 patients recovered and were discharged from medical facilities. Of the total 468 new patients, 11 had a source of infection from outside Punjab, 13 were health care workers, 14 were police personnel and five jail inmates. Of the total 4,096 Covid-19 active cases in Punjab, Patiala is at the top with 764 cases, followed by Ludhiana (759), Jalandhar (704), Amritsar (305) and Sangrur (226). Amritsar district has recorded the highest number of 66 Covid deaths till now, followed by 54 in Ludhiana, 37 in Jalandhar and 23 in Sangrur, 20 in Patiala. IG Sharma had mild fever for two days and his report came positive on Saturday morning. Sharma had come in contact of a police official who tested positive. IG is being isolated at a hospital. Faridkot civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said the IG’s test was taken 15 days ago, when he had tested negative, but the test was taken yesterday again and he tested positive. “The health authorities have traced nearly 40 persons who came into contact of IG and they have been asked to go for home quarantine,” he said. Superintendent of police (investigation) Sukhdev Singh Virk and deputy superintendent of police Rachhpal Singh Dhindsa were among four police personnel who tested positive in Barnala. Apart from the two, a woman constable and a home guard jawan were also found infected. While the state government bulletin said 18 people tested positive in Bathinda, district civil surgeon Amrik Singh Sandhu there were 65 new cases, including 45 of labourers from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, who had returned to Punjab. They were seeking jobs in Guru Gobind Singh refinery and were living in labour colonies situated near the refinery. Earlier, 32 labourers had tested positive on July 23 from labour colonies around refinery, though none of them had entered refinery. (Inputs from Bathinda)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/punjab-covid-death-toll-nears-300-faridkot-ig-among-468-ve/articleshow/77180016.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Covid death toll nears 300, Faridkot IG among 468 positive||CHANDIGARH: Punjab reported 468 new positive cases of Covid-19 and nine deaths due to the virus on Saturday, taking the state’s tally to 12,684 and the casualty count to 291. Faridkot range inspector general of police Kaustubh Sharma was also among those whose reports came positive for coronavirus infection. Four Covid-19 patients breathed their last in Ludhiana district and one each in Jalandhar, Ferozepur, Barnala, Amritsar and Ropar districts. Ludhiana reported the highest number of new cases, 155. It was followed by 55 cases in Amritsar, 40 in Patiala, 38 in Sangrur, 32 in Mohali, 29 in Jalandhar, 18 each in Barnala and Bathinda, 16 in Gurdaspur, and 10 each in Kapurthala, Faridkot, Fatehgarh Sahib and Ferozepur districts. Also, 201 patients recovered and were discharged from medical facilities. Of the total 468 new patients, 11 had a source of infection from outside Punjab, 13 were health care workers, 14 were police personnel and five jail inmates. Of the total 4,096 Covid-19 active cases in Punjab, Patiala is at the top with 764 cases, followed by Ludhiana (759), Jalandhar (704), Amritsar (305) and Sangrur (226). Amritsar district has recorded the highest number of 66 Covid deaths till now, followed by 54 in Ludhiana, 37 in Jalandhar and 23 in Sangrur, 20 in Patiala. IG Sharma had mild fever for two days and his report came positive on Saturday morning. Sharma had come in contact of a police official who tested positive. IG is being isolated at a hospital. Faridkot civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said the IG’s test was taken 15 days ago, when he had tested negative, but the test was taken yesterday again and he tested positive. “The health authorities have traced nearly 40 persons who came into contact of IG and they have been asked to go for home quarantine,” he said. Superintendent of police (investigation) Sukhdev Singh Virk and deputy superintendent of police Rachhpal Singh Dhindsa were among four police personnel who tested positive in Barnala. Apart from the two, a woman constable and a home guard jawan were also found infected. While the state government bulletin said 18 people tested positive in Bathinda, district civil surgeon Amrik Singh Sandhu there were 65 new cases, including 45 of labourers from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, who had returned to Punjab. They were seeking jobs in Guru Gobind Singh refinery and were living in labour colonies situated near the refinery. Earlier, 32 labourers had tested positive on July 23 from labour colonies around refinery, though none of them had entered refinery. (Inputs from Bathinda)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-covid-death-toll-nears-300-faridkot-ig-among-468-ve/articleshow/77175536.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab Covid death toll nears 300, Faridkot IG among 468 positive||CHANDIGARH: Punjab reported 468 new positive cases of Covid-19 and nine deaths due to the virus on Saturday, taking the state’s tally to 12,684 and the casualty count to 291. Faridkot range inspector general of police Kaustubh Sharma was also among those whose reports came positive for coronavirus infection. Four Covid-19 patients breathed their last in Ludhiana district and one each in Jalandhar, Ferozepur, Barnala, Amritsar and Ropar districts. Ludhiana reported the highest number of new cases, 155. It was followed by 55 cases in Amritsar, 40 in Patiala, 38 in Sangrur, 32 in Mohali, 29 in Jalandhar, 18 each in Barnala and Bathinda, 16 in Gurdaspur, and 10 each in Kapurthala, Faridkot, Fatehgarh Sahib and Ferozepur districts. Also, 201 patients recovered and were discharged from medical facilities. Of the total 468 new patients, 11 had a source of infection from outside Punjab, 13 were health care workers, 14 were police personnel and five jail inmates. Of the total 4,096 Covid-19 active cases in Punjab, Patiala is at the top with 764 cases, followed by Ludhiana (759), Jalandhar (704), Amritsar (305) and Sangrur (226). Amritsar district has recorded the highest number of 66 Covid deaths till now, followed by 54 in Ludhiana, 37 in Jalandhar and 23 in Sangrur, 20 in Patiala. IG Sharma had mild fever for two days and his report came positive on Saturday morning. Sharma had come in contact of a police official who tested positive. IG is being isolated at a hospital. Faridkot civil surgeon Dr Rajinder Kumar said the IG’s test was taken 15 days ago, when he had tested negative, but the test was taken yesterday again and he tested positive. “The health authorities have traced nearly 40 persons who came into contact of IG and they have been asked to go for home quarantine,” he said. Superintendent of police (investigation) Sukhdev Singh Virk and deputy superintendent of police Rachhpal Singh Dhindsa were among four police personnel who tested positive in Barnala. Apart from the two, a woman constable and a home guard jawan were also found infected. While the state government bulletin said 18 people tested positive in Bathinda, district civil surgeon Amrik Singh Sandhu there were 65 new cases, including 45 of labourers from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, who had returned to Punjab. They were seeking jobs in Guru Gobind Singh refinery and were living in labour colonies situated near the refinery. Earlier, 32 labourers had tested positive on July 23 from labour colonies around refinery, though none of them had entered refinery. (Inputs from Bathinda)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/punjab-covid-death-toll-nears-300-faridkot-ig-among-468-ve/articleshow/77180015.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Hospitals should not charge patients for PPE kits: Maharashtra minister||AURANGABAD: State health minister Rajesh Tope said on Saturday that no hospital should make the patients (or their relatives) either pay for or purchase PPE kits and masks, as the district collectors have been asked to provide the supplies to the hospitals. Speaking to reporters in Aurangabad after a review meeting of the Covid-19 situation in the district that was attended by NCP chief Sharad Pawar and other officials, Tope warned of strict action against hospitals refusing admission to the patients or those charging bills beyond the ‘cap’ imposed by the state government. He also reiterated that government auditors will audit bills from private hospitals and counter-sign them before patients are asked to pay the amount. He said the state health department would soon sign a memorandum of understanding with the Pune-based National Institute of Virology (NIV) to carry out titration of the donated plasma, so that plasma therapy can be effectively carried out on Covid-19 patients in the state. Tope said that the tender for purchasing 500 ambulances in the state was in the final stage. In addition, he assured that funds from the Marathwada Statutory Development Board would be used to provide 60 ambulances to Aurangabad city. The high-power review committee appreciated Aurangabad’s improved Covid-19 doubling rate, which has now risen to 26 days. Tope praised the civic body’s efforts to carry out about 1 lakh Covid-19 tests. Addressing the issue of hiring required skilled manpower for the super-specialty set up at the Government Medical College and Hospital, Tope said the district collector has been given the authority to fill all the posts on the payscale as per National Health Mission, while in case of salary difference, the civic body has been asked to augment the difference. An amount of over Rs 20 crore has been allotted to the district collectors for purchasing Remdevisir injections for the needy patients. Tope announced that soon an administrative approval for setting up a 500-bed women and child hospital in the city would be done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hospitals-should-not-charge-patients-for-ppe-kits-tope/articleshow/77173300.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 26, 2020||Chandigarh||SAD asks Punjab CM to procure maize, pulses on MSP||CHANDIGARH: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has asked Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to make efforts to procure maize and pulses on minimum support price (MSP). SAD leader and former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra accused the Congress government of failing to come to the rescue of farmers in distress. He said the farmers, who had sown maize over 2.5 lakh hectares of land, were forced to sell the produce at distress rates. Chandumajra said the government could have ensured full returns for farmers had it purchased maize in the public distribution system (PDS) system. The shortfall in the price of maize would have been made up for by the Centre, for which it had already allocated Rs 14,000 crore this year, the Akali leader said. According to him, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh had already taken compensation for maize from the Centre but Punjab government failed to do so. Chandumajra also demanded a probe into alleged misuse of the Rs 550 crore subsidy given by the Centre to the state government for purchase of agricultural machinery for farmers. Instead of giving direct subsidy to farmers, the Punjab government bought agricultural machinery from private companies and then passed the equipment on to farmers, he alleged. The SAD leader alleged that the price of this agricultural machinery was inflated and officials as well as private companies shared the spoils with their political masters. Citing examples, Chandumajra said the straw management system, which was available for Rs 80,000 was purchased for Rs 1.05 lakh and Happy Seeders available for Rs 1.30 lakh were purchased for Rs 1.60 lakh. He also asked Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar why he was not asking his government to reduce state value added tax (VAT) on diesel by Rs 10 per litre to give much-needed relief to farmers. The SAD has already requested the Union government to reduce central excise on petroleum products and the state should also reduce state VAT on diesel and petrol immediately, said Chandumajra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-asks-punjab-cm-to-procure-maize-pulses-on-msp/articleshow/77175530.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Chandigarh||95 fresh cases push Himachal tally to 2,049||Shimla: As many as 95 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Himachal Pradesh on Saturday, taking the state’s tally for the virus to 2,049. Also, 22 patients recovered. By the evening, active cases stood at 848 and recovered cases at 1,173. Thirty-five new cases are from Solan district, 25 from Sirmaur, 15 from Mandi, seven from Chamba, six from Una, four from Kangra and one each from Shimla amd Hamirpur. Among patients who recovered, 21 are from Solan district, three from Chamba, and two each from Kullu and Una. Solan district has the highest number of cases, 507, of which 325 are active. Kangra district has the second highest number of cases, 389, of which 79 are active. Hamirpur district has the third highest number of cases, 293, of which 17 are active. Sirmaur has 216 positive cases, of which 169 are active, 40 have recovered and seven have migrated out of the state. In Una, there are 178 positive cases, of which 50 are active. Bilaspur has 68 cases, of which 17 are active. In Chamba, there are 93 positive cases, of which 24 are active and 68 have recovered. Kinnaur district has 41 cases, of which 17 are active and 24 have recovered. There are 24 cases from Kullu and four from Lahaul-Spiti. In Mandi, there are 101 positive cases, of which 60 are active. In Shimla, there are 125 positive cases, of which 67 are active, 55 have recovered and two patients have died. Travel rules changed The state government partially amended previous orders on inter-state movement. Now, students, candidates and their parents who need to travel to and from the state for competitive or selection examinations do not have to undergo quarantine if they enter or exit the state within 72 hours. The admit card issued by the examination authority would be a valid document and no separate registration would be required. During their visit to the state for examinations, they will be allowed to stay in local hotels or units registered with the HP Tourism Department. Officials said labour from outside the state will be brought to work sites by orchardists, agriculturists, contractors, project proponents or their contractors with the approval of the district administration. They will be quarantined in accordance with guidelines of the department of health and family welfare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/95-fresh-cases-push-himachal-tally-to-2049/articleshow/77175547.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Kargil hero saved with tocilizumab||Ahmedabad: Dinesh Kumar Purohit, a former soldier with Indian Army, supplied the arms, ammunition and ration to the frontline warriors during Kargil war in 1999. When he approached Civil Hospital with symptoms such as fever and dry cough, he tested Covid-19 positive. He got admitted to the 1200-bed hospital. Civil Hospital authorities said that his condition got critical and he was even administered tocilizumab injection to save his life. “The fight against Covid-19 is like that battleground. We all have to contribute to defeat the virus,” said Purohit on the occasion of 21st anniversary of Kargil conflict.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kargil-hero-saved-with-tocilizumab/articleshow/77175560.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Valparai to get two tourist attractions||Coimbatore: Construction of a botanical garden and a boat house in Valparai town of Coimbatore district is expected to be completed by December and the places will be open to the public in January 2021.Valparai municipal commissioner K Paunraj inspected boat house construction work on Saturday.Though Valparai is the only hill station in Coimbatore district, it did not have major tourist attractions. People, who visit the Valparai, usually have a look at the Sholaiyar dam and tea estates. The AIADMK mentioned in the manifesto that the government would set up a botanical garden and a boat house at Valparai to promote tourism. Municipal administration minister S P Velumani laid the foundation stone for the two projects in March 2019.The state government allotted Rs 5.47 crore to set up the botanical garden on 4.5 acres of land that belonged to the public works department (PWD). As of now, 50% of earth work was complete. The government allotted Rs 2.5 crore to construct the boat house on 4.25 acres of land near municipal inspection bungalow. A municipality official said that a channel from the Nadumalai river crosses the IB. “We plan to construct a check dam across the channel and the water in the channel will be diverted to the boat house. Already 50% of earth work for the boat house is complete,” the official said.“We plan to open the botanical garden and boat house in January 2021. Once it is opened for the public, we believe that it would attract many tourists to Valparai,” the official added.Udhagamandalam (Ooty) in the Nilgiris district has a botanical garden and boat house. The hill station attracts many tourists as it has many tourist spots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/valparai-to-get-two-tourist-attractions/articleshow/77175527.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Vegetable prices carry on with upward trend, rise by 20-30%||Ludhiana: With heavy rainfall causing havoc in Bihar and Maharashtra in the past few days prices of vegetables in the retail market of the city have gone up. Tomatoes, green peas and lemon continued to remain on the higher side of the price graph even in the last week of July. These are vegetables which are being mostly transported from several parts of Maharashtra and Bihar to city retails vegetable markets through road transportation for local consumers but after heavy rainfall damaged most of the crop grown in these states, the prices shot up by 20-30% in the past one month. Under these tough circumstances, the prices of ginger, garlic, broccoli and coriander further hit the pocket of the middle class families. Arjun Prasad, a vegetable vendor at the busiest vegetable markets of the city, said, “Due to flood-like situation in several districts of Bihar as well as Maharashtra, vegetables transported from these places are affected the most as the prices of tomato, green peas, lemon and coriander have gone of reach for middle class families. These are selling above Rs 70 per kg in most of retail markets of the city.” Apart from that, the festival season will soon start which will make it tougher for middle class families as the chances of further increase in prices of onion, capsicum, okra and cucumber.” Another vendor from Jalandhar bypass vegetable market Amit Kumar said, “At present, the prices of vegetables are not stable because this year most of the crops of Bihar, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh have been damaged due to heavy rainfall. Till the next crop is grown, which will be in winter, the vegetable market will continue to face the problem of high prices of vegetables.” He further said, “Another reason for the increase in the prices of vegetables was continuous hike in prices of petrol and diesel in the past several days which has made road transportation costlier. Besides, middlemen or agents are earning huge profits as they have started selling vegetables stored in the cold storage.” Meanwhile, residents, especially women who have to run the kitchen, are upset over the rising prices of the vegetables. Speaking on the issue, Anjali Verma said, “After ginger and garlic, now the prices of tomatoes have started disturbing the budget of middle class families as it has almost doubled now. There is no option but to leave onion in vegetable preparation or use it in small portions.” Another local household woman, Jaspreet Kaur, a resident of BRS Nagar, said, “On one side there is recession in the industrial and business sector after outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic and people are losing jobs, while on the other side this regular hike in vegetable prices is giving tough time to people.” “It has become a regular affair to see the prices of of vegetables go up as there is no check of government authorities on the working of people indulging in sale and purchase of vegetables. Our monthly budget is likely to get affected on this account,” Kaur added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/vegetable-prices-carry-on-with-upward-trend-rise-by-20-30/articleshow/77174452.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Locust swarm sighting keeps border villages on edge||Bathinda: Sighting of a locust swarm rattled villages near the Pakistan border in Fazilka district on Saturday. A small swarm was spotted near Santokh Singh Wala village in Jalalabad of Fazilka, after which farmers got ready to bang utensils to scare the pests. Agriculture department officials asked officials to be alert and made announcements on things to do if the swarm was seen. Farmers were relieved on finding out that the wind was blowing towards Pakistan. Locust swarms spotted in Fazilka district over the past six months have been tackled with sprays. “In the morning, we were alerted about a small swarm heading towards our village. Farmers went towards the fields but did not see any swarm. We were ready to bang utensils to scare the swarms,” said Santokh Singh Wala village farmer Gurmail Singh. Punjab agriculture department secretary Kahan Singh Pannu said, “We have information that a small swarm could fly towards Punjab villages from the direction of Pakistan or Rajasthan. We alerted our field staff, who will wait till late in the evening as the swarm settles over trees, green vegetation or crops at that time. If this happens, the swarms will be killed by sprays at night. It is hoped that they turned towards Pakistan.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/locust-swarm-sighting-keeps-border-villages-on-edge/articleshow/77175549.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Probe against Jamia Millia Islamia alumnus gets one more month||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court has extended the period of investigation by a month against Jamia alumni association president Shifa-Ur-Rehman, who was booked under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). Delhi Police’s Special Cell is investigating the case related to northeast Delhi violence in February. Rehman’s counsel Abhishek Singh opposed the extension plea saying that neither had he received a copy of police’s application nor did the jail authorities arrange a meeting with his client via videoconferencing despite court orders. Special public prosecutor Amit Prasad, however, contended that the application couldn’t be shared with the accused. “The contention of the counsel regarding providing a copy of the application and granting him time after meeting with his client, it is pertinent to mention that the contentions are meritless,” said additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana. Police told the court that Rehman, being the president of Alumni Association Of Jamia Millia Islamia, allegedly collected huge funds from “suspicious and unaccounted” sources. “Funds were received even from persons living outside India,” it alleged. While seeking the extension, police stated that the “co-conspirators” in the case were yet to be arrested. “Their apprehension is crucial in finding out the missing links of the larger conspiracy.... In the present case, several layers of conspiracy have surfaced and to unearth the deep-rooted plot, interrogation of the remaining accused is important to investigate the case from all possible angles,” the application added. Cops also said that they were searching for the other accused persons, but the lockdown had hindered their process. According to police, over 1,700 call detail records had been sought from the service providers which are under thorough examination. “The analysis of such huge technical record will take more time. The detailed analysis of that data is important for the purpose of filing a fair, effective and impartial chargesheet against the above named accused and his continued detention is needed to confront him with incriminating material so detected,” it said. Rehman, also a member of Jamia coordination committee, was booked for alleged involvement in the riots and was arrested by the Special Cell in April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/probe-against-jamia-alumnus-gets-1-more-mth/articleshow/77176322.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Lucknow||Premium liquor, beer to be sold in UP’s shopping malls from September||LUCKNOW: By September, premium liquor, beer and wines could finally be available in Uttar Pradesh’s shopping malls. Following a cabinet decision in May this year to allow sale of premium quality liquor and beer from shopping malls, the excise department has set the licence fee and the licensing process will begin from Monday. The annual licence fee for such shops has been fixed at Rs 12 lakh and it can be obtained by any individual, company, firm or society. An official said that the shops will have the facility to allow customers to purchase from within the shop but they will not be allowed to serve liquor on their premises. “The process for issuing licences will begin from July 27, which is Monday and will take about a month. For those who apply on Monday itself, licences would be issued by August 27 or thereabouts after clearing all formalities,” an official said. An official said that the trend of shopping from malls has increased rapidly over the past few years. Therefore, the government decided to allow liquor to be sold from shops in malls as well. “We are allowing imported foreign liquor, Indian scotch, all brands of brandy, gin and wine, vodka and rum worth more than Rs 700 and cans of beer worth Rs 160 or more to be sold from these shops. These shops will have the facility to allow customers to choose their desired brand of liquor directly. The shops will be fully air conditioned but will not be allowed to serve liquor on their premises,” he said. Under conditions laid down in the Uttar Pradesh Excise (Settlement of Licence for Premium Retail Vends of Foreign Liquor) Rules, 2020, the application will have to be made on FL-4-C forms for sale of sealed bottles. The licence applicant will have to declare the area of the shop and the section where liquor is sold will have to be placed in such a way that it can be sealed or locked up in the event of dry days, etc. The mall where the shop will be located should have a minimum plinth should have a minimum area of 10,000 sq feet while the shop should have a minimum area of 500 sq feet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/premium-liquor-beer-to-be-sold-in-ups-shopping-malls-from-sept/articleshow/77176323.cms||Neha Lalchandani
July 26, 2020||Rajkot||Four of family drown in water-filled pit at stone quarry||RAJKOT: Four persons including three cousins, drowned in the water-filled pit at a stone quarry in Dharampur locality of Khambhalia in Devbhoomi Dwarka district on Saturday. Police identified the deceased as Jaideep Nakum (10), Girish Nakum (12), Raj Nakum (15) and Bhanji Nakum (55). According to police, Jaideep, Girish and Raj, who are first cousins, had stepped into the water-filled pit for bathing. Soon after entering the water, they started drowning. None of them knew how to swim. Police said that their relative Bhanji was passing and saw the children drowning. “He (Bhanji) jumped into the water to save them. But he, too, drowned,” said an official from Khambhalia police station. Police further said that a team from the Khambhalia fire department fished out bodies from the water and sent them sent to the government hospital for postmortem. After postmortem, the bodies were handed over to the family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-of-family-drown-in-water-filled-pit-at-stone-quarry/articleshow/77174449.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Resources in place for rising cases’||CHANDIGARH: Punjab has already made 6,190 beds available at government as well as private hospitals in Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Patiala for Covid-19 patients. In addition, covid care centres have been set up in districts with capacity of 7,000 beds, which can be enhanced to 28,000, if needed. Punjab’s chief secretary Vini Mahajan said over Rs 300 crore had been spent by the state government on covid care and migrants across the state till date. The state government was well prepared to deal with increasing Covid-19 cases with adequate bed capacity, ventilators in hospitals, PPE kits, masks and testing kits. She urged people not to panic but to strictly adhere to the health and safety protocols, including social distancing, proper wearing of masks and washing hands frequently. Mahajan said senior officer of civil administrations had been deputed as nodal officers in all 22 districts with senior IAS officers Sumit Jarangal and Tanu Kashyap deputed as state nodal officers to oversee daily number of cases and to ensure availability of the requisite medical infrastructure well in time. The chief secretary said that the deputy commissioners had also been asked to liaison with private hospitals in respective districts to increase availability of dedicated beds for treatment of Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/resources-in-place-for-rising-cases/articleshow/77180040.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||State records 1,081 cases, 22 deaths in a day||Ahmedabad: In 24 hours ending 5pm on Saturday, Gujarat added 1,081 – another daily high – new cases, taking the cumulative tally to 54,712. The state also recorded deaths of 22 Covid-19 positive patients, taking the state death toll to 2,305. It was the state’s fifth consecutive day of 1,000-plus daily cases. The new cases include 276 from Surat, 180 from Ahmedabad, 94 from Vadodara and 65 from Rajkot. For Rajkot, it was the highest daily tally in July. With the update, Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot now have cumulative cases at 25,529, 11,373, 4,088 and 1,334. Vadodara district crossed 4,000 cumulative cases, becoming third district after Ahmedabad and Surat to cross the landmark. The 22 deaths in Gujarat include 11 from Surat, four from Ahmedabad, two from Vadodara and one each from Bhavnagar, Gandhinagar, Junagadh, Kutch and Rajkot. With the update, only two districts of Gujarat have reported zero deaths of Covid-19 patients and 14 districts less than 10 deaths. Gujarat recorded discharge of 782 patients in 24 hours, taking the total to 39,612. These include 170 from Ahmedabad, 167 from Surat, 51 from Rajkot, 45 from Vadodara and 45 from Banaskantha. With the update, the state now has 12,795 active patients, that forms 23.4% of cumulative cases. The share of deceased and discharged patients is now at 4.2% and 72.4%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-records-1081-cases-22-deaths-in-a-day/articleshow/77175684.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Bhopal||Lockdown returns in Bhopal: Day 1 passes smoothly as citizens stay home||BHOPAL: The state capital remained deserted on the first day of the 10-day lockdown that was imposed from Friday night. Police barricades were seen at all important movement points of the city. Shops and all commercial establishments remained closed, even banks remained closed for public and only 30% staff of banks were allowed, that too for official works. Though people were spotted on streets, it was less compared to normal days. The commuters were asked about the reasons for travel by police at the checkpoints that have been made in the city. Only those with genuine reasons were allowed to move. The entire New Market, all the malls, restaurants of the city remained closed. In the old city area also, locals mostly remained indoors. The conditions were such that police did not have to take strict action as people remained indoors on their own, said sources. In government offices, staffers were seen but the attendance was less, as only 30% of the people had come, following the instructions of the general administration department, which ordered presence of only 30% employees at the offices. All religious places that were opened on June 8, after the long lockdown of more than two months, remained closed on Saturday. Several utility services such as petrol pumps, postal services, ATMs, LPG delivery services, medical stores, Sanchi milk parlours, government ration shops, hospitals, industries, e-commerce-related activities have been kept out of the lockdown. People related to these services are not required to have any pass, but they will have to carry their identity cards. The vendors who are into supplying milk and newspaper from door to door have been kept free from this lockdown between 6.30 am and 9.30 am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/lockdown-returns-day-1-passes-smoothly-as-citizens-stay-home/articleshow/77175759.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Spare medical students from Covid-19 duty: IMA||Ahmedabad: Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Saturday wrote a letter to CM Vijay Rupani, urging the state government not to involve medical students in Covid-19 duty. ‘Some officers are arm-twisting the medical fraternity... The government would be responsible for any untoward incident involving the medical students,’ stated the letter. The letter cited notifications of the central government’s HRD ministry and state government to discontinue the educational work. ‘The central government’s health and family welfare department has issued a notification on June 16 not to involve medical students in duty. Even then, medical colleges are coercing the students into Covid-19 duty which can be detrimental for their mental and physical well-being,’ mentioned the letter. Experts said that Covid-19 duty has remained a bone of contention between the students and health machinery in the state. On the other hand, the hospitals said that the students form backbone of the public health system when regular strength of the doctors is not available. A senior hospital administrator said any government decision is binding on the medical colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/spare-medical-students-from-covid-19-duty-ima/articleshow/77175557.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Godman claims cure for corona, arrested||HYDERABAD: A 50-year-old self-styled godman was arrested by Cyberabad police on Saturday for cheating people stating he can cure them of coronavirus. The accused was identified as Mohammad Ismail, a resident of Marthanda Nagar in New Hafeezpet area. “A man suffering from fever went to him for treatment. He took Rs 40,000 from him stating he has cured him while he got infected from coronavirus,” said Miyapur Inspector, Venkatesh Shamala. The victim thought Ismail, might cheat more people like him and complained. The accused was letting over 30-35 people gather inside his hut without following any social distancing.  “So far, only a few came forward to lodge a case against the baba, however, police expect more complaints might reach the police station against him,” said ACP Miyapur, Krishna Prasad. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/godman-claims-cure-for-corona-arrested/articleshow/77175559.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Phishing fraud in Punjab linked to Covid’||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab Police cyber crime cell has warned people not to click on a URL message being circulated via SMS and WhatsApp claiming that free Covid-19 relief package of Rs 2,000 was being given by the government to each citizen. As per the Punjab bureau of investigation, these kinds of phishing attacks could permit cyber criminals to assume control of a person’s device by logging user’s keystrokes or access personal data and money related information, which could lead to emptying user’s bank account. The police have said any information in this regard or any other cyber crime can be shared with the state cyber crime investigation centre on email ID ssp.cyber-pb@nic.in to enable the department to take suitable legal action against such criminals. One such fake message being circulated in social media reads, “The government has finally approved and has started giving out free Rs 2,000 relief funds to each citizen. Below is how to claim and get yours credit instantly as I have just did now https://covid19-relieffund.com/. You can only claim and get credited once and it’s also limited so get your now instantly.” As per the Punjab Police, once anyone opens the page after clicking on the URL, it shows the congratulatory message - “Get free Rs 7,000 instantly to your bank account. Please complete the survey to avail free lockdown relief funds.” Then comes a question asking that are you a bona fide Indian citizen? After answering the questions, it is observed that the link actually contains a questionnaire asking about your several other details such like ‘How much can sustain you throughout their login? What will you use free Rs 7,000 for?’ After that one receives a congratulatory message of getting Rs 7,000. Thereafter, the person gets a link for sharing this message to other groups and contacts. The bureau has said, “If anyone comes across any such message, through any social media platform, do not forward it to others but delete it immediately. Clicking on such links poses high risks because it could be malware which could redirect you to other fraudulent sites which may lead to financial loss to the user.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/police-warn-public-about-phishing-fraud-linked-to-covid-19/articleshow/77175555.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Resources in place for rising cases’||CHANDIGARH: Punjab has already made 6,190 beds available at government as well as private hospitals in Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Patiala for Covid-19 patients. In addition, covid care centres have been set up in districts with capacity of 7,000 beds, which can be enhanced to 28,000, if needed. Punjab’s chief secretary Vini Mahajan said over Rs 300 crore had been spent by the state government on covid care and migrants across the state till date. The state government was well prepared to deal with increasing Covid-19 cases with adequate bed capacity, ventilators in hospitals, PPE kits, masks and testing kits. She urged people not to panic but to strictly adhere to the health and safety protocols, including social distancing, proper wearing of masks and washing hands frequently. Mahajan said senior officer of civil administrations had been deputed as nodal officers in all 22 districts with senior IAS officers Sumit Jarangal and Tanu Kashyap deputed as state nodal officers to oversee daily number of cases and to ensure availability of the requisite medical infrastructure well in time. The chief secretary said that the deputy commissioners had also been asked to liaison with private hospitals in respective districts to increase availability of dedicated beds for treatment of Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/resources-in-place-for-rising-cases/articleshow/77175558.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: 43 cartons, 12 bottles of illicit liquor seized, 3 held||LUDHIANA: In three different cases the anti-smuggling cell of Ludhiana commissionerate has seized 43 cartons and 12 bottles of illicit liquor on Friday. In one case, the accused liquor smugglers also tried to run over a police team at Sangowal bridge in an attempt to escape. In the incident three police personnel suffered injuries. Despite that, the police managed to nab the two accused as their car got stuck in the barricades installed by the police, while two of the accused managed to escape. In the Sangowal bridge incident, the arrested are Gagandeep Singh (40) and Jatin Kumar (22) of Guru Gobind Singh Nagar, Shimlapuri. The police also seized 40 cartons of illicit liquor from their possession. The accused who managed to escape are Mahinder Singh and his son Gocha. The police said that Mahinder was the kingpin of the gang and is facing trials in several cases of liquor smuggling. Sub-inspector Yashpal Sharma, incharge of anti-smuggling wing, said the police had set up a naka at Sangiowal bridge following a tip-off. The police signalled two cars coming from the Doraha side to stop for checking. But instead of stopping there the accused tried to run over the police. The SI added that constable Jatinder Singh and two other police personnel suffered minor injuries in this incident. The car of two of the accused got stuck in the barricades installed by the police, while two others managed to escape in the other car. A case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 353 (assault or criminal force for detering a public servant in discharge of his duty), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) and 427 (mischief causing damage) of the IPC has been lodged against the accused at police station, Dehlon. The said that in another case the team had arrested Yashpal of Chhawni Mohalla with 12 bottles of liquor. In the third case three cartons of illicit liquor were seized from a Swift Dzire near the old vegetable market of Daresi area, while the car occupants managed to escape.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/43-cartons-12-bottles-of-illicit-liquor-seized-3-held/articleshow/77174457.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh governor asks Chandigarh PGI to help||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh governor Bandaru Dattatraya wants Chandigarh-based PGIMER, the region’s premier health institute, to send a team to the hill state to study its Covid care centres, hold discussions with doctors and prepare a report on how to improve ways to contain and treat infections of the killer virus . Dattatraya held a videoconference with PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram on Saturday to discuss the situation in Himachal Pradesh and also sought suggestions on how to contain the pandemic. Dattatraya said tracing, testing and treatment were vital to curtailing transmission. He sought observations of the PGIMER on how Himachal Pradesh could combat Covid-19. Dr Ram, while giving a presentation about initiatives taken by PGIMER to fight coronavirus, said Himachal Pradesh had been doing good work in containing cases and recovery rate was also good. He said the PGIMER had started the facility of plasma and steroid therapy, and indigenous machines were being used to minimise contact with patients. He assured all help from the health institute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hp-guv-asks-chandigarh-pgi-to-help/articleshow/77175623.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Chandigarh||70,000 fake beneficiaries removed from social security list: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday claimed that the 70,000-odd beneficiaries removed from the ambit of social security were fraudulent cases, who were drawing benefits at the cost of genuine ones, and the Rs 162.35 crore that he has ordered to be recovered from them will now go towards raising the amount of financial assistance to the deserving beneficiaries. He said the Congress government has added 6 lakh genuine beneficiaries to the list since taking over the state’s reins while weeding out the ineligible ones, who were fraudulently getting social security benefits under the patronage of the erstwhile SAD-BJP government, said Amarinder. These things happen when political parties become selfish and indulge in wrongful acts to promote their own interests, he added. The total number of beneficiaries has gone up from 19 lakh to 25 lakh in the three-year period, he said during the weekly #AskCaptain Facebook Live session. Responding to a question from a Hoshiarpur resident, he said he is totally committed to transparency in selection of beneficiaries and his government would ensure that no eligible person is left out or deprived of his due share of social benefits. In Fazilka district, which includes Jalalabad assembly constituency of former deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal and Fazilka segment of the then social security minister Surjit Kumar Jyani, 2,452 ineligible beneficiaries were availing benefits to the extent of Rs 6.14 crore, said a spokesperson. In Amritsar district, the stronghold of the Majithia family, a total of 7,853 ineligible beneficiaries were found to be getting benefits fraudulently to the tune of Rs 19.95 crore, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/70k-fake-beneficiaries-removed-from-social-security-list-capt/articleshow/77175591.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Coimbatore||District logs 270 cases, may cross 4,000-mark before August 1||Coimbatore: The district recorded its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases on Saturday when 270 people tested positive for the virus, taking its tally to 3,237. The district has zoomed past Salem’s count of 2,845 and become table-topper in the western region that comprises eight districts. Officials now see the possibility of district logging 4,000 cases well before the projected date of August 1.The Covid-19 toll, meanwhile, touched 38 in the district, as the state included six more deaths in its bulletin. So far, 1,826 patients, including 167 who were discharged on Saturday, have recovered from the virus in the district, bringing down the number of active cases to 1,373. The recovery rate stands at 56.4%.Selvapuram cluster continued to swell with 29 new cases that were spread across Linga Chetti Street, Chetti Street, Ashok Nagar, Sarojini Nagar and Indira Nagar. Five people were tested positive from RS Puram, two from Telungupalayam, six of a family from Podanur, another six from Vadamadurai, seven from Singanallur and five from Gandhi Nagar in Vilankurichi. Peelamedu and Nanjundapuram also recorded new cases.According to officials, three staff members of Avinashilingam University have also tested positive for the virus.Among the six dead, four were in their 50s. One of them, a 51-year-old man who was brought to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) on July 22 with breathing difficulties, had no comorbidities. However, he died on Saturday. Among the remaining three in that age group, a 52-year-old man with diabetes died in CMCH two hours after hospitalization on Friday, a 55-year-old woman with blood pressure and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease died a day after admission in CMCH on Tuesday and a 57-year-old man with diabetes, heart problems and blood pressure, died in CMCH on Thursday, three hours after hospitalisation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/district-logs-270-cases-may-cross-4000-mark-before-august-1/articleshow/77175562.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||5 sanitation staff test positive||Ahmedabad: Five civic body staffers involved in door-to-door garbage collection tested Covid positive on Saturday. In all, 1,441 staffers of the solid waste department were tested. Harshad Solanki, the director of the AMC’s solid waste department, said that on Saturday the staff of the transfer station, drivers, and safai workers of the South Zone had been tested. Solanki said that it was now clear that the virus has not swept through the ranks of safai workers though they are involved in garbage collection. All the five who tested positive have been hospitalized. The drive to test the staff of temples continued on Saturday. Reports suggested that only one person tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/5-sanitation-staff-test-positive/articleshow/77175699.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Now, pay for parking at Bhadaur House, BRS Nagar market||Ludhiana: Those planning to go to Bhadaur House and BRS Nagar market will now have to shell out money for parking their vehicles as once again contractors have started collecting parking fee from Saturday onwards. These parking sites had been closed since the Covid-19 lockdown and even after unlocking, the parking contractors had not started taking fee as lesser people were coming and they had to incur more amount on the manpower deployed in the parking lots. However, Feroze Gandhi market and block-I market parking lots are still not managed by the contractors so civic officials have now recommended cancellation of the contracts to MC’s finance and contracts committee (F&CC). The civic body had allocated four parking sites in city earlier, out of which only multi-storey parking lot was functional, but while rest were free. The Model Town market has still notbeen taken because most of the tuition centres are located here and as of now those are closed, hence lesser footfall. The Feroze Gandhi market and block-I markets were handed over after the lockdown, but the contractors did not start work, citing loss in running the parking lots at existing rates. The market association members also highlighted the chaos in the market in the absence of parking contractor or MC employees. On Saturday when parking fee collection was again started in BRS Nagar and Bhadaur House parking lots the shopkeepers showed resentment saying it was not the right time to impose parking fee in the market as hardly a few visitors come to the market and if parking fee was be imposed then people would stop coming here. However, it could not create any impact on the contractors and parking fee is being charged now. Meanwhile, zonal commissioner Neeraj Jain said, “The lockdown was over in June and since then we had asked the contractors to make parking lots functional, but they did not start as per their convenience. However, we will collect money as per agreement from the day when we had allowed parking.” He said as far as Feroze Gandhi market and block-I parking lots were concerned, they had sent the case in F&CC for termination of contract as contractors had failed to pay instalment. He added that they would forfeit earnest money and security that was deposited initially.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/now-pay-for-parking-at-bhadaur-house-brs-nagar-market/articleshow/77174479.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Salem prison officials release husband instead of wife on bail||Salem: In what could be an embrassing blunder by Salem central prison officials, a murder accused was released mistakenly instead of his wife a few days ago. However, the accused was brought back and lodged in the prison again on Saturday.Ranjith Kumar, 30, of Vellalapatty near Yethapur in Salem district, his wife Pavithra, 26, and his friend Vijaya Kumar were arrested in connection with the murder of K Sadhasivam, 42, of the same village, that happened on June 23. All the three were lodged at the Salem central prison.Meanwhile, Pavithra filed a petition for bail at Madras high court on Wednesday and was granted bail on the same day. “Prison officials received the bail order to release Pavithra on the same night. However, officials mistakenly released Ranjith Kumar,” a prison official said. The officials realized the goof-up on Thursday after Pavithra’s family members approached officials with the bail order to release her. A team of officials went to Vellalapatty on Friday and brought Ranjith Kumar back to the prison. Later, Pavithra was released on bail. Prison superintendent T Tamilselvan, meanwhile, ordered a departmental inquiry into the incident. “Officials responsible for the incident will be punished,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/salem-prison-officials-release-husband-instead-of-wife-on-bail/articleshow/77175609.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Killer father of 5 children remanded in police custody||SAFIDON/JIND: Police produced the father, who allegedly killed all his five children on the advice of an occultist, in a local court on Saturday. The court sent him on three-day police remand. Police had arrested the accused Jumma (38), a native of Didwara village of Safidon sub division in Jind on Thursday late night. Police sources said the accused was changing his statement continuously about the killing of his five children — three girls and two sons — aged between nine months and 11 years. Meanwhile, shocked villagers said everyone supported him initially following the loss of his five children, without knowing about the brutal killings. According to them, when the accused’s two daughters went missing on July 15, several people from village and nearby areas worked tirelessly to search for them in the canal. Villagers said the accused later confessed in the panchayat that he killed his two daughters after giving them sleeping pills. He allegedly threw the bodies after midnight in the canal. Talking to TOI, assistant superintendent of police (ASP) Ajit Singh Shekhawat said the role of occultist and other persons yet to be ascertained. “We are investigating still and will soon disclose the facts,” added the ASP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/father-who-killed-his-5-children-sent-to-police-remand/articleshow/77175561.cms||Vijender Kumar
July 26, 2020||Ludhiana||MC, MLAs forget cleaning of interceptor sewage line||Ludhiana: The carelessness of the civic officials and even MLAs of respective constituencies will prove dearer to residents living in these areas as none of them has paid attention towards cleaning of an old interceptor sewage line passing through the heart of city. On Saturday, MLAs Rakesh Pandey from north, Surinder Dawar from central and Sanjay Talwar from east constituencies met the mayor, Balkar Sandhu, with this demand. Following this, the mayor has told the officials to prepare estimates for cleaning of this line but the cleaning will now take place in November when there is lesser water in the lines. This line passes through areas like Jalandhar bypass, Chand Cinema, Hukam Singh Road, Kalyan Nagar, Bajwa Nagar, Old Madhopuri, Harbanspura, Gaushala disposal, Baba Than Singh Chowk, Samrala Chowk, etc. and is 16km long. The cleaning of the sewage line will cost at least Rs 5 to Rs 6 crore. It was cleaned 10 years back. The MLAs claimed that it was not intentional that they forgot to take up the cleaning of this line with officials, but it was only by mistake. They claimed that the during rainy season the choking creates problems as this line is unable to take load of water. Even in routine days the sewage choking problem occurs. The mayor has asked the officials to get approval so that cleaning should take place at the first possible chance||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-mlas-forget-cleaning-of-interceptor-sewage-line/articleshow/77174491.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Nagpur||Two more deaths 4th day in a row||Yavatmal: Yavatmal recorded two more deaths on the fourth consecutive day taking the toll to 28. One was a 48-year-old man from Bhosa road while the other deceased was a 65-year-old man from ward No. 1 of Umarkhed Municipal area. The district recorded 10 new positive patients on Saturday, taking the total to 242. Six are men and four are women. 81 presumptive cases were admitted in the isolation ward of the GMC. 91 swab samples were sent to the GMC lab on Saturday. Meanwhile, the four tehsils — Yavatmal (city only), Ner, Darwha and Pandharkawda are reeling under curfew which would continue till July 31. In a press release, MSEDCL PRO Phulsingh Rathod informed that all the 13 employees attached to its Pusad office who were kept under home quarantine tested negative and were discharged on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-more-deaths-4th-day-in-a-row/articleshow/77170333.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Delhi||Sterilisation dips, south Delhi to see rise in stray dog count||NEW DELHI: With most sterilisation centres shut since the announcement of the Covid-19 lockdown, the stray dog situation in south Delhi is likely to worsen in coming months. A senior official of South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) said that out of the 14 centres under its jurisdiction, only the facility in Masoodpur near Vasant Kunj was operating. “It is handling five-six dogs every day,” he said. Before the city was hit by the pandemic, these centres were taking care of 3,500-3,600 dogs every month. Another official said that besides the fear of catching the novel coronavirus infection among dog-catching staffers, the poor financial condition of SDMC had hit the operations. “This was the first time that SDMC couldn’t release salaries of some staff members. We have a large amount due to the NGOs that carry out dog sterilisation while grants from Delhi government are unlikely to come,” he added. A senior veterinary department official said sterilisation was important during the two breeding cycles every year. “The June-August period in summer is key in managing stray population and progress made over several years can get affected. The other major phase is December-January,” he said. Some of the SDMC sterilisation centres are in Lajpat Nagar, Tughlaqabad, Tilangpur Kotla, Bijwasan, Mundela, Nangli and Masoodpur. Till March, 26 out of the 104 wards had completed the sterilisation targets while the rest had achieved only 50% of it. The corporation was targeting 80% sterilisation in all wards by 2022. According to a survey conducted by NGO Humane Society International in 2019, south Delhi alone has over 1.9 lakh strays. “The civic bodies have floated tenders several times but did not get any response. Since stray dogs are mobile, it is difficult to get an exact figure,” an official said. The last pan-Delhi survey was conducted by the erstwhile MCD in 2009 and the number of stray dogs was found to be over 5.6 lakh. “It must have increased now,” another official said, adding that a proposal for another dog census had been junked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sterilisation-dips-s-delhi-to-see-rise-in-stray-dog-count/articleshow/77176345.cms||Paras Singh
July 26, 2020||Rajkot||Facebook emoji triggers attack on factory owner||RAJKOT: An innocuous emoji on Facebook cost a factory owner dear after a group of 15-20 miscreants vandalized hisu unit at Virani Aghat Plot-29 on Bolbala Marg in Rajkot on Friday night. Police arrested eight persons for the crime. Complainant Pratik Topia told police that he had sent a clapping emoji to the Facebook post of his friend Mehul Patidar who had written, “Take care while coughing. Your lump may come out.” To this, one Jignesh Togadia posted abuses. On Friday, Topia obtained the number of Togadia and called him up, asking as to why he abused him on a public platform, while he hardly knew him. Togadia asked him to meet him in the evening. “In the evening, Togadia called up Topia, abused him again and asked about his whereabouts. When Topia said he was at his factory, Togadia said he was coming to attack him with his group of friends. Then a group of 15 to 20 assailants led by Togadia stormed the factory armed with scythes, swords, knives and iron pipes,” said an official from Bhaktinagar police station. In his complaint, Topia identified the accused as Togadia, Jasmin Pipalia, Mahendra Vachhani, Naimish Kakadia, Raju Vaghasia, Sanjay Ajani and Lalji Chovatia. As the assailants chased him, Topia got inside his cabin and locked himself up. “The accused then indulged in fisticuffs with Topia’s friends Keyur Patel, Hardik Patel and Parth Dhanani. Then Topia called us up. When we arrived at the spot, the accused started fleeing. However, we managed to catch hold of eight accused,” added the official. Meanwhile, the CCTV footage of the incident have gone viral on WhatsApp and social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/facebook-emoji-triggers-attack-on-factory-owner/articleshow/77174481.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali: ‘Overdoing hygiene may affect innate immunity’||CHANDIGARH: Why is it that while some people develop severe Covid infection, but some show only mild or no symptoms at all? Well, according to a study by an IISER Mohali scientist, published recently in an international journal, it has to do with the correlation between hygiene and innate immunity. The study explores whether it is possible that constant hand washing, taking antibiotics whenever one catches even minor infections and over-sanitising the environs make one prone to severe infection. Data from both World Health Organisation (WHO) and Johns Hopkins University show severe diseases are not very common in those who live in less hygienic conditions. The hygiene hypothesis was first given in the United Kingdom for asthma and later extended to autoimmune diseases, but not infectious diseases. The IISER study, however, mentioned this also applies to Covid-19, as innate immune responses are critical to fighting infections. “Washing hands regularly during contagious disease for a short span does not mean it will make one vulnerable to Covid due to hygiene. But, if it becomes a cultural habit, one can become susceptible to infections,” said an immunologist from PGI, prof Sunil Arora. He further said, “We eat golgappas without knowing the source of water. Unlike people in the West, we do not drink mineral water or are in an environment which has less dust/allergens. This exposes us to numerous microbes, which could activate our imune system. Gradually, our immune system is trained to handle most of these organisms, right from childhood. The hygiene hypothesis implies that our system is trained to handle even a new type of organism better than most people from countries where infection rate is less.” It is believed that developing countries as compared with developed ones have been exposed to numerous microbes. “We are born with Th2 (T helper) type response due to which asthma, allergies and respiratory diseases are higher. With bacterial infection, BCG vaccination and TB infection during childhood, Th2 response is converted to Th1, which is protective. These are also adverse factors for Covid-19 infection. In those who are in a hygienic environment, there is a late Th2 response and thus they are more prone to severe Covid-19,” said prof Meenu Singh, department of paediatrics, PGI, adding that hygiene hypothesis could be one of the reasons for lower death rate in Mumbai’s congested slum Dharavi. There are two types of immune response. One acts immediately after infection — innate immune response — and the other — adaptive immune system — in which there is production of antibodies which kill infected cells. When there is an infection, innate immune response is followed by adaptive immune response. Vaccination can also aid this process. If innate response is good, viral dose can be reduced. Study author prof Sharvan Sehrawat, department of biological sciences, IISER, said “The hygiene hypothesis has elucidated that those exposed to microbes constantly, their innate immune cells gets activated and they make type 1 interferons — cells that interfere with virus replication — and prevents severe infection or protect against subsequent infections.” The study concludes that though anyone can be susceptible to Covid-19, though the severity could depend on frequent exposure of individuals to natural environmental microbes and live attenuated vaccines against other viruses or bacteria that can stimulate innate immune receptors. They all help to reduce the clinical consequences of Covid-19 infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/overdoing-hygiene-may-affect-innate-immunity/articleshow/77175578.cms||Shimona Kanwar
July 26, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Now, you can wear your immunity booster||BHOPAL: Covid season has definitely made immunity the buzz word. After health supplements, vitamin tablets and kadhas to boost immunity during the pandemic, the latest entrants in the field are immunity- booster sarees. Yes, MP Handicraft and Handloom Development Corporation has now come up with sarees treated with traditional herbs and spices to boost skin’s immunity. Called Ayurvastra — a garment that ensures better health and long life, it was popular in ancient times, claimed officials, adding that concerns over health issues led the corporation to adopt this ancient technique to promote immunity along with fashion. The corporation conducted two months’ trial before going ahead with the immunity-booster apparel. Officials said Chanderi immunity-booster sarees have been introduced initially and the next in line are Bagh print sarees. Treatment of a saree with herbs takes more than two days’ time. Herbs and spices used for making immunity-booster clothes include cinnamon, cardamom, ginger, clove, nutmeg, turmeric etc. In this process, herbs and spices are traditionally crushed using iron, mortar and hands as experts believe that grinding spices in machines destroys their benefits. The spices are later tied in a cloth and left soaked in water for 48 hours so that water absorbs all the medicinal properties. This water with medicinal values is boiled in a furnace and the bag of spices is also kept in the pot.Then the clothes are treated for an hour with its steam before they are packed in airtight bags to retain freshness. Officials said immunity-booster sarees keep bacteria at bay even after four to five washes. The treated clothes increase skin’s capacity to fight viruses. MP handicrafts and handloom commissioner Rajeev Sharma said, “We have introduced this ancient immunity-booster technique in sarees for now, but will bring it in other range of garments as well. The treatment of clothes using herbs and spices increases its cost by 10-20%, but most sarees are priced under Rs 5,000. The sarees are already available at Mrignayani store in the state capital,” he said, adding that gradually it would be made available in more stores.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/now-you-can-wear-your-immunity-booster/articleshow/77175564.cms||Ankur Sirothia
July 26, 2020||Ghaziabad||49 allowed home recovery in Ghaziabad after evaluation||GHAZIABAD: The health department has allowed home isolation for 49 asymptomatic patients in the district. This is the first batch of patients who have been allowed home isolation after the UP government’s go ahead.  The health department has also constituted a 12-member rapid response team to keep tabs on the patients under home isolation. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that in the past two days, they received applications for home isolation from 28 asymptomatic patients and on Saturday, permission was granted to 21 more patients. In Sahibabad, 10 patients have been allowed home isolation, followed by eight each in Indirapuram and Kavinagar, seven each in Sihani Gate and Kotwali and areas four in Vijay Nagar. In Loni, two patients are under home isolation while one each are in Modinagar, Link Road and Bhojpur areas.  Pandey said, “Our team of doctors first gathers information of patients to assess the severity of infection under L1, L2 and L3 parameters. According to guidelines, only asymptomatic or L1 patients with no comorbidities are eligible for home isolation.” He added that when a patient places a request, the response team visits the house. “The room should be large enough and the patient should have an attendant round-the-clock,” he said, adding that it is mandatory for the patient to download the Aarogya Setu application. A patient’s daily health status is monitored by the team, which is then recorded on a centralised Google sheet during home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/49-allowed-home-recovery-in-gzb-after-evaluation/articleshow/77176329.cms||Abhijay Jha
July 26, 2020||Bhopal||Passengers suffer as autos, taxis vanish in Bhopal||BHOPAL: As the 10-day lockdown began in Bhopal on Saturday, passengers had a difficult time finding public transport at railway station and airport. Many people had to wait for long hours at Bhopal and Habibganj stations as auto and taxis were not available. Though autos and taxis are allowed to ply during the lockdown period.  A passenger Praneet Updhyay, who reached Bhopal station, had to wait for almost 2 hours to get an auto. “This is a very annoying situation. At least autos should have been available for passengers,” said Praneet. He was travelling with his wife and two daughters. Later, he called his brother to receive them. “My brother lives in New market and it took him around 2 hours to reach the station as everything was closed and people were not allowed to move,” said Upadhyay. Many passengers said that they were not aware of the lockdown. “I was shocked when I saw that the entire city is closed. I accept that it was my fault, but there should be arrangements for passengers,” said Akash Gour. He had to stay back at one of his friend’s place. Travellers were confused about availability of public transport at airport and railway station. Passengers claimed they had to face a lot many problems during the previous lockdown as the transport was not properly available. The district administration has mentioned in its lockdown guidelines that taxis and autos plying to and from airport and railway station can operate. Several travellers even cancelled their plans to visit other cities. “I was supposed to go to my sister’s place for Rakhi celebration. However, I had to cancel the plan as the entire Bhopal is under lockdown,” said Adarsh Shrivastava, a teacher in a private school. Another passenger Anil Verma said that his family had to suffer a lot during the earlier lockdown. “When there was a lockdown in the entire nation, my family had to stay at my relative’s family after coming back from Gwalior. Now, the administration is again saying that taxis and cabs will be available for passengers coming at the railway station,” said Verma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/passengers-suffer-as-autos-taxis-vanish/articleshow/77175569.cms||Ramendra Singh
July 26, 2020||Noida||25,000 fined in Noida for not wearing masks, spitting||GREATER NOIDA: Police in Noida have penalised more than 25,000 people for not wearing masks and spitting in public places ever since the lockdown was imposed in the third week of March — an average of around 420 violations a day. Data sourced from police has revealed that as many as 2,500 FIRs were registered for lockdown violations against 10,280 people, of whom 8,700 were arrested. “These cases were registered across 21 police stations in both Noida and Greater Noida under IPC Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant),” said Ranvijay Singh, the additional DCP (zone 1). Those arrested were released on a minimum personal bond of Rs 500, he added. The data also revealed that around Rs 28 lakh was collected as fines for not wearing masks or for spitting in public places. “On an average, we collected around Rs 42,000 every day,” he said. The fine for not wearing a mask in Noida is Rs 100 for a first-time offender and Rs 500 for subsequent offences. Apart from this, the traffic policemen have also penalised 1.5 lakh vehicles, including 1,277 two-wheelers, and collected Rs 76 lakh as penalties during the same period for violations of the Motor Vehicles Act. Singh said that the city police were working round-the-clock to ensure residents followed guidelines. “All police stations have been asked to make announcements regarding the guidelines every day,” he said. According to Singh, the police commissioner has given directions that 22 gazetted officers posted in the district should carry out checking drives in their areas,  “Since June 19, all ACPs, ADCPs and DCP-level officers have cumulatively patrolled 792 high-risk zones across the city. That’s an average of 27 areas every day,” he said. “The police are on their toes trying to keep the city safe. These efforts have certainly helped the district control the spread of the infection. We would appeal to residents to follow the state’s guidelines. It is the best way to fight the virus,” he added. Noida has among the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state. The district police has a 4,000-strong force, including two inspectors, 459 sub-inspectors, 972 head constables and 2,396 constables. So far, 28 policemen have tested positive for Covid-19 and one head constable attached with a court has died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/25k-fined-in-city-for-not-wearing-masks-spitting/articleshow/77176337.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Noida||Delhi: Happy that all students part of online teaching, says deputy CM Manish Sisodia||NEW DELHI: Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday interacted with teachers and parents to get their feedback on the teaching-learning activities for students of Delhi government schools. He also asked for suggestions to improve online education during his visit to two government schools and proposed holding of parent-teacher meetings (PTMs) in online mode. After visiting schools in Prashant Vihar and Pitampura, Sisodia tweeted: “What a joy to visit a school after so long! Very happy to learn that our teachers are connecting with all their students. From today I have started reviewing the online (or semi online) learning process in corona time (sic).” What a joy to visit a school after so long! Very happy to learn that our teachers are connecting with all their stu… https://t.co/z1p79Rckgy— Manish Sisodia (@msisodia) 1595663754000 The education minister also interacted with students and advised them to practise meditation. “Delhi government is making all efforts to ensure that every student gets the best facilities,” he said.  During the interaction with teachers, Sisodia said that “when the lockdown happened, we started online classes. At that time, everyone thought that online education was only for private school students. But officials of our education department and the teachers adopted innovative techniques to reach out to all children and engage with them.”  “This was the first time in the country that online education had been imparted in government schools at such a scale,” he added. Describing Delhi’s technology-enabled teaching-learning model as “semi-online,” Sisodia explained how students up to Class X are given worksheets every week through WhatsApp and those children whose parents do not have smartphones are invited to the school to collect the printout of the weekly worksheets. Nearly all children of Class XII are attending live online classes in twelve subjects, he said. “There was a time when access to education was based on religion and caste and later on financial status. It created a divide in the society. We bridged that by rebuilding our government schools with world-class facilities. A new divide should not be created among those who have access to digital devices and those who do not have,” the deputy CM added while explaining the rationale behind adopting the semi-online teaching model. Sisodia said that there is no vaccine for the loss of education. “If a student misses out on education, it will not only be a loss for that child or the family, but also the entire country.” Accepting that online classes are not a substitute for classrooms and are akin to “seeing the Kashmir valley in a film instead of going there,” he asserted it is important to keep the learning going. During the interaction with the minister, teachers of SKV Prashant Vihar said that 96% of their students were enrolled in the online classes and attempts being made to connect the remaining children. Teachers and parents described Happiness Classes as a fulfilling experience in the prevailing situation. One of the parents claimed that they got their child shifted from a private school to a government school for better facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/happy-that-all-students-part-of-online-teaching/articleshow/77176341.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Trichy||50% more students to review answer scripts this year||CHENNAI: Following poor scores in Class XII state board exams, science stream students are eager to see their evaluated answer scripts this year. Schools say the number of applications seeking copy of answer scripts will increase up to 50% this year. Already, many schools in the city witnessed more applications compared to the previous year. The number of students scoring above 570 out of 600 in Class XII science stream has come down drastically this year following the revised syllabus and new question paper pattern for higher secondary. Many students are eager to see their evaluated answer scripts before applying for revaluation. Hazel Shirley Sharon J, a student from Chennai, said she had applied for copies of her Chemistry and English answer sheets. She scored 87 and 88 in the two subjects respectively. "I feel I got four to five marks less in every subject. In maths, I expected 97, but got only 93. In Chemistry and English, my marks went below 90. I am confident I would get above 90 in these two subjects," she said. Another student Hananiah Shadrach has applied for a copy of Physics and Chemistry answer scripts. “I was expecting a centum in physics, but got 91 marks. In Chemistry, I was expecting 98 but scored 89. So, I wanted to see how the answer sheets were evaluated,” he said. He further said students have scored very low marks in English and language papers and many may apply for answer sheets in these subjects as well. M D Purushothoman, a postgraduate maths teacher from a city school, said scoring high marks is difficult in the new question paper pattern. “Students earlier used to get marks for steps even if the final answer was wrong in the 10 marks section, but the present question paper pattern do not have descriptive questions. Around 30% of the questions are application oriented, which makes scoring very difficult,” he said. City schools said many science group students have sought copy of answer scripts on the first two days. “More students want to apply for Physics and Mathematics this year. In general, students who have scored 10 to 15 less than what they had expected in Physics want to apply for revaluation. So, they are seeking the copy of answer sheets before applying for revaluation,” said R Rajkumar, headmaster, DRBCCC Higher Secondary School in Perambur. He said the number of students seeking copy of their answer sheets has increased by 15% compared to the previous year. “Science stream students are applying for answer sheets copy in large numbers. Students feel they deserve better in key subjects like Physics and Chemistry. So far, 50% more students have applied compared to the previous year. It will increase further in the coming days," said N Vijayan, senior principal, Zion Matriculation Higher Secondary School in Tamabaram. Most students feel they were deprived of five to 10 marks in key subjects. “The number of students applying for answer sheets almost doubled in our school,” said B Purushothaman, senior principal of Everwin Matriculation Higher Secondary School in Kolathur. Some schools say they have received requests for answer sheets for the first time. “Usually, our students don’t ask for revaluation. But, this year, more students are coming forward and seeking answer scripts in Maths and Physics,” said V Shanthi, headmistress of Vidyodaya Girls Higher Secondary School in T Nagar. Sources in the school education department said on the first day more than 10,000 applications for copy of answer sheets have been received.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/50-more-students-to-review-answer-scripts-this-year/articleshow/77175590.cms||A Ragu Raman
July 26, 2020||Chennai||Kitchen appliances move off shelves||CHENNAI: Managing online classes, work and household chores has become a task for Sharmila Shankar from Besant Nagar. “We cook and snack more often. Cutting vegetables, making juices is time consuming the old fashioned way. When retail opened up for non-essential items, we got a blender and juicer and it is much easier,” she said. Realising that the Covid-induced lockdown is not as temporary as it was thought to be and many opting not to get back their domestic help, people are cooking more often at home and upgrading their kitchen equipment to ease the process. Retailers see an increase in the demand for dishwashers, OTG and ovens. At Girias, dishwashers are out of stock. “The sale after lockdown was more than the number of dishwashers sold in the whole of 2019. OTG and microwaves are also seeing over a 60% jump in demand compared to last year’s numbers. The only problem is we are not stocked enough to cope with the sudden rise in demand because factories aren’t operating with the usual capacity," said managing director Nitesh Giria. B K Shankar, CEO of retail chain Viveks, says apart from dishwashers and ovens, smaller equipment like choppers and blenders are also being purchased and there is a doubling in demand. “There is a lot more chopping and cooking done. Working professionals won't have the time to use the usual knives and cook,” he said. Spending more on kitchen appliances has hurt the demand for other durables like air conditioners, refrigerators. Retailers are seeing a 50-60% drop in year-on-year demand. “It is mainly the fear of having service personnel at home for more than two hours that scares many,” said Shankar of Viveks. The precedence of other appliances of ACs is also being seen at Girias. “My AC is not as good as it used to be, but I decided to put off the purchase because we had to get a microwave, useful for reheating and fast cooking. With the number of ready to cook packets that we have been buying, we really needed the oven,” said Nivas P, an IT employee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/kitchen-appliances-move-off-shelves/articleshow/77176524.cms||Aparna Desikan
July 26, 2020||Chandigarh||75-yr-old woman lying to stay back in UK, says man claiming to be former son-in-law||Amritsar: A 75-year-old Sikh woman, who faces deportion from the UK for overstaying there and has gotten support from various quarters for her to be allowed to stay back, has been accused by a man claiming to be her former son-in-law of lying to gain sympathy. A petition on www.change.org, which appeals to the UK government to allow Smethwick resident Gurmit Kaur Sahota to stay back, has gotten support from 50,000 people online. In her petition, Sahota has stated she arrived in the UK in 2009 and settled In Smethwick. She has claimed that she has no family either in the UK or in India, and the Sikh community in Smethwick has adopted her. “Gurmit applied to stay back, but (her application) has been refused even though she has no family to return to in Punjab, India,” the petition reads. Jasbir Singh, who claims to be the former son-in-law, told TOI on Saturday that he could confirm Sahota, who lived in Nangal Majja village near Phagwara, has three brothers who live in the UK and own a business in Birmingham . He claimed that Sahota had three daughters and one son. He added he had knowledge of the circumstances of her arrival and stay in the UK. He said he had also written a letter to UK home secretary Priti Patel, informing her about what he knew about the overstayer. Jagdeesh Singh, a Punjabi community campaigner in the UK, said they were “naturally sympathetic” to Sahota’s plight as she was an elderly member of the community. “However, in any public campaign like this, full and correct information needs to be given. The information presented by Jasbir needs to be put before Gurmit and her campaigners, and clarified,” he said. He said they had seen a number of cases in such campaigns where facts had been “seriously misrepresented”. Jagdeesh, who has previously campaigned for all overstayers, clarified they did not oppose Gurmit. “However, the truth is being lost in a lot of cases which become public campaigns. That is a breach of public trust,” he said. Meanwhile, to impress upon the UK government that Gurmit is noble and kind-hearted, the petition says: “At a local Black Lives Matter protest, Gurmit was giving out fruit to protesters in solidarity with the cause. Gurmit is an asset and a kind auntie to Smethwick. We want her to stay here. Smethwick is home!”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/75-yr-old-woman-lying-to-stay-back-in-uk-says-man-claiming-to-be-former-son-in-law/articleshow/77175627.cms||Yudhvir Rana
July 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid duty: Medicos face exam challenge in August||Ahmedabad: With the annual exams for medical and paramedical courses set to begin in August, students say their careers will be at risk if they join the anti-Covid duty. Amid the rising number of coronavirus cases, the Gujarat government has taken the all-hands-on-deck approach by proposing to deploy students of all medical, dental, and paramedical courses in the mission to fight the pandemic. The state is facing an acute shortage of frontline medical teams. So the government plans to add an additional frontline taskforce of 1 lakh students who are in their first, second, third, and final years of undergraduate studies. In the case of medical courses, all students from first to final years are to take the exams. As for paramedical courses, only the final-year students have to take the exams. The state government is putting the lives of many bright medical and paramedical students at risk by assigning them Covid work, said a statement released by the All Gujarat Medicos Parents Association. The government had issued a notification on July 17 roping in the students. The notification had said that students of various courses including MBBS, BDS, physiotherapy, BSc nursing, BHMS, and BAMS will undergo a training programme before deployment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-duty-medicos-face-exam-challenge-in-august/articleshow/77175673.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Chandigarh||In weekly interaction, Punjab CM Amarinder Singh says govt schools won’t charge admission, tuition fee||CHANDIGARH: No admission, re-admission or tuition fee will be charged from students in Punjab’s government schools in the 2020-21 academic session on account of the Covid-19 crisis, said Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh. He said with regard to fee charged by private schools, the state government had already moved court. The CM also announced provisional admission in Class XI for the 31,000 Class X students in the open school system, who could not be promoted amid the corona crisis based on internal assessment, as no such assessment exists for them. To ensure that their future is not adversely affected, the state government has decided to allow them provisional admission in Class XI, but they will be required to take examinations once things normalise, he said. Amarinder made these announcements during the weekly edition of #AskCaptain. He also announced a cash prize of Rs 5,100 each to 335 students who have scored over 98% in Class XII. He pointed out that the 94.32% pass percentage in government schools is the highest-ever in the school board’s history. Referring to the unprecedented 13% increase in admission in government schools this year, the CM said this had become possible due to the various initiatives undertaken by his government to improve the school education system, including making smart schools, recruiting good teachers, hiring science teachers in border areas and steps to ensure attendance of students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-weekly-interaction-captain-says-govt-schools-wont-charge-admission-tuition-fee/articleshow/77175630.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Ludhiana||MC completes 1st round of chlorination of water in slums||Ludhiana: The civic body has provided 3.5 lakh chlorine tablets among councillors for distribution in the slum areas for chlorination of water to prevent water-borne diseases. While the first round has been completed, the second round will take begin after 15 to 20 days when officials feel the requirement. This move has been taken in view of water contamination in some areas. The civic officials every year carry out chlorination of water supply provided through tubewells, but chlorinators are not installed at all tubewells. Officials said chlorinators could be installed where a tubewell is installed in closed premises. Chlorination is a challenge in the slum areas as residents cannot afford to install purifiers. Dr Jasvir Kaur, medical officer of health wing, MC, said, “We have distributed chlorine tablets as per the demand of 95 councillors. More tablets have been distributed for outer wards as there was lesser requirement in inner wards.” She said as of now, almost 3.5 lakh chlorine tablets have been given away in first round. She said they will see if there will be requirement, they will go ahead with second round. Dr Jasvir Kaur said one chlorine tablet is recommended in 20 litres of water. Chlorination is mostly required during the monsoon season as there is high risk of contamination during these days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-completes-1st-round-of-chlorination-of-water-in-slums/articleshow/77174496.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Chennai||Ex-pilot brings home 22 Odisha workers stranded in Sri Lanka||CHENNAI: He has rescued Indians from war zones, reached out to people who lost their homes during floods with relief material as a pilot on a government mission. This time he is bringing back workers from Sri Lanka, using all his resources to help stranded people. “All it took was one call. We wasted no time and sent the flight to bring them back home,” said Vivek Shanbhag, managing director of Aries Enterprises, a charter flight company that ferries Indian seafarers between India and international seaports. Over the past two days, Vivek has helped evacuate 22 workers from Odisha stuck in Sri Lanka due to the pandemic for more than four months. With no work or money, the workers were desperately trying to get back home, but since international flights were restricted and unaffordable they were stuck in the foreign country. “They had no money and were struggling to arrange for food,” said Shanbhag. A few days ago, the men got in touch with the Indian High Commission in Colombo and the authorities there reached out to Shanbhag, who arranged for the transport from his own pocket. One group reached the city on Friday and the other on Saturday. The groups were kept under quarantine inside the campus of a private college for a day and later Shanbhag’s firm arranged for buses to take them back to their native in Odisha. Before leaving, the workers were given water bottles, dry ration, and other essential supplies. “This was possible because of the help from both governments,” said Shanbhag, a recently retired Air India pilot with 31 years of service. His firm of charter aircraft flies Indian seafarers to Colombo for change of crew. It has also been providing essentials supplies, medicines, crude oil and other goods to seafarers who have been living on the ships for nearly a year, since most international flights have been cancelled. Shanbhag has been flooded with calls for help from workers stuck elsewhere. “We might take up another operation soon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ex-pilot-brings-home-22-odisha-workers-stranded-in-sri-lanka/articleshow/77176525.cms||Aditi R
July 26, 2020||Amritsar||11 Afghan Sikhs, Hindus to arrive in India on Sunday||AMRITSAR: Eleven Sikhs and Hindus from Afghansitan, including sehajdhari Sikh Nidan Singh and minor girl Salmeet Kaur, are arriving in India on Sunday. This is believed to be the first batch of persecuted members of minority communities of Afghanistan arriving to India after ministry of external affairs had decided to facilitate the return, following abduction of Nidan and Salmeet and attack on a gurdwara in Kabul. Sources in Afghanistan informed that nearly a dozen Sikhs will be boarding a plane to India on Sunday to never return to Afghanistan. “We are living under the constant threat of fundamentalists and want a safe future, which we see only in India,” said sources. On July 18, 13-year-old Salmeet was allegedly lured by a Kabul boy to accompany him to his village in Panjshir valley. The girl had lost her father and uncle in a terrorist attack on Kabul’s Gurdwara Har Rai Sahib on April 25 in which 25 Sikh men died. The girl was, however, rescued by Afghan police after a maulvi refused to solemnise the marriage of a minor girl to the boy and informed the matter to the police. The girl was handed over to her family members on July 20. On June 22, Nidan was kidnapped from Gurdwara Talha Shaib in Chamkani district of Paktia province of Afghanistan. He was released on July 18 by his captor. It is believed that a deal was stuck for his release. On April 25, terrorists had gunned down 25 Sikhs while they were taking part in morning prayers at Gurdwara Har Rai Sahib in Kabul. Sources said a larger group of Afghani Hindus and Sikhs will be arriving in phases. President of Afghan Sikh Hindu Welfare Society Khajinder Singh confirmed that they had got 11 tickets booked for Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/11-afghan-sikhs-hindus-to-arrive-in-india-on-sunday/articleshow/77175632.cms||Yudhvir Rana
July 26, 2020||Nagpur||‘MSEDCL illegally issued average bills’||Nagpur: High Court lawyer Arun Agarwal has claimed that MSEDCL had illegally issued average bills in summer in order to reduce its losses. “There is no provision in the Electricity Supply Code (ESC) for issuing such bills,” he said while addressing a webinar on inflated power bills organized by Nagpur University Alumni Association. MSEDCL officials present in the webinar could not counter his argument. Agarwal further said that as per section 15.1.1 of the code, meter reading has to be taken once in two months in cities and towns. “MSEDCL took meter reading after three months. Here, too, it violated the law,” he added. The lawyer said that average bills were advance payments taken from customers. “As per section 15.6.3 of the ESC, the distribution licensee shall pay interest on the amount deposited by the consumer at a rate equivalent to the bank rate of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). MSEDCL has not paid any interest to consumers against the advance payments,” he added. The counsel further said that the summer of 2019 was far hotter than that of 2020 yet power consumption as per MSEDCL bills was more this year. “I have studied many cases where the discom has not given slab benefit to consumers,” added Agarwal. Power expert RB Goenka said that the bill amount was high because it pertained to three months and not one. “MSEDCL’s billing software is based on Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission’s (MERC’s). There can, however, be manual errors in some bills,” he added. Goenka further said that one of the reasons for MSEDCL’s high tariff was Mahagenco’s high cost of generation. “We have repeatedly urged the commission to not allow MSEDCL to buy Mahagenco power at cost plus basis but through competitive bidding. This will automatically bring down the tariff. The other reasons are higher internal expenditure, high cross subsidy, failure to reduce distribution losses etc,” said Goenka. Former MSEDCL director Anil Palamwar said that power tariff in Delhi was low because the Kejriwal government subsidized power for domestic consumers. “On the other hand, Maharashtra government levies electricity duty (ED) on us,” he added. Environmentalist Sudhir Paliwal in his introductory remarks elaborated how common people were suffering due to the high bills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/msedcl-illegally-issued-average-bills/articleshow/77175641.cms||Ashish Roy
July 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Vizag: Depleting mangroves in dire need of regeneration||VISAKHAPATNAM: Every year, June 26 is celebrated as ‘International Day for the Conservation of the Mangrove Ecosystem’ across the world. Sadly, there is nothing for Vizag to cheer about on this day. The city has lost almost all its mangroves species due to industrial and port activities on its coastline over the last few decades, and there seems no immediate revival in sight. There have been no efforts either to regenerate the port city’s depleted and destroyed mangroves. Mangrove patches used to be found in areas around the port and naval dockyard, extending up to Meghadrigedda reservoir and backside of the airport, but one can hardly spot those patches now, says S Ravi Kanth Reddy, founder president of Meecons, who has been campaigning for conservation of mangroves, along with other NGOs like Trendsetters, Green Climate and Green Guardians Society. “From RTI enquiry, we found there is no statistics available about the present extent of wetlands or mangroves in Vizag. Destruction of mangroves is a violation of CRZ rules of 1991 and 2011, and Wetlands Conservation and Management rules of 2010. Mangroves have been cleared over the decades due to industrialization, urban development projects, port trust activities and setting up of solar panels. Water supply to mangroves have been diverted. The damp patches in and around the mangrove bodies are polluted with industrial effluents,” says Ravi Kanth. Oindrila Bhattacharya, core member of ‘Extinction Rebellion’ and ‘Fridays for Future’ campaigns, said they had taken to the digital platform protest against mangroves destruction. “We have conducted street awareness programmes at various places of the city. Port officials told us they are not concerned with conservation of mangroves. They can use their land or give it away for industrial purpose. We were told to contact the forest department for replantation. Forest officials told us that mangroves land comes under the port trust and they cannot interfere without the permission of the state government or Visakhapatnam Port Trust,” she said. Speaking to TOI, Anantha Shankar, divisional forest officer of Visakhapatnam division, said he will talk to VPT authorities. “Unlike usual tree plantation, mangroves are highly sensitive species that require a specific kind of land and environment to grow. The mangroves in Vizag are outside forest land, mainly around port areas. We shall see what can be done,” said Shankar, who has earlier worked towards mangroves restoration and conservation in Krishna and Coringa forest reserves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/depleting-mangroves-in-dire-need-of-regeneration/articleshow/77173410.cms||Sulogna Mehta
July 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab sweet shops open on Rakhi eve||CHANDIGARH: Sweet shops in Punjab will be allowed to remain open on Sunday, August 2, in view of the Rakshabandhan festival. Shops are not permitted to open on Sundays due to weekend lockdown that is in place in the state, but the government had received many requests for exception during the festival. During his #AskCaptain session, chief minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday said his government had decided to accept the request for the convenience of the people. But social distancing and other norms would have to be followed by the shop owners, as well as the people,he said. To a question on movement of inter-state buses on Rakshabandhan day, he said there were no restrictions on such buses as far as Punjab was concerned but other states have might have imposed curbs. In response to a question regarding restriction of two persons in a seven-seater when all 52 seats in a bus were allowed to be filled up, Amarinder said economic viability had forced his government to decide to allow buses to ply with full capacity. But passenger traffic in buses is only 25-30% of the normal figure, he said, adding that he would ask the transport department to relook the restrictions for private vehicles depending on the vehicle size.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-sweet-shops-open-on-rakhi-eve/articleshow/77175638.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Chandigarh||Pbi University admission counselling to go online||Patiala: In view of the Covid-19 crisis and uncertainty over JEE Mains 2020 examination, Punjabi University, Patiala has decided to conduct online counselling and online admission process for different courses of the engineering department on the basis of Class XII marks. Authorities said the admission process will be initiated in the engineering departments of the varsity, including department of electronics and communication engineering, which has 180 seats; department of computer science and engineering with 200 seats; department of mechanical engineering with 180 seats and department of civil engineering with 180 seats. The last date to apply online is July 30. Tentative merit list will be displayed on August 2. The final allotment and waiting list will be put up on August 4. Candidates will be given three days from August 5 to August 7 to deposit the fee. Allotment from the waiting list and preference-based branch allocation will be announced online after the first round of counselling and admission. Candidates are advised to be in constant touch with the university admission related website: www.pupadmissions.ac.in. Authorities said the candidates will also be updated from time to time through SMS. “The excellent track record of department placements is a great inspiration and attraction to candidates as well as parents. The university has NAAC A grade, coveted 64th NIRF Rank and 1st EW Punjab State Rank. Response to the courses is encouraging,” said prof Manjit Singh Bhamrah, coordinator for B Tech admissions and prof Raman Maini, co-coordinator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pbi-university-admission-counselling-to-go-online/articleshow/77175654.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Ludhiana||Railways may use Civil Lines space of stn for screening of passengers||Ludhiana: In a attempt to overcome the issues of crowd management of migrant workers who are returning to the city in passenger trains, the railway authorities are planning to bring to use the space on Civil Lines side of the Ludhiana railway station for conducting their screening and verification of passengers before giving them permission to entry the city limits. This will help the railways to solve the issue of gathering of huge rush of passengers on one side of the station. With this, local railway officials will easily implement social distancing norm among passengers easily as earlier they were made to stand in long queues while waiting for turn to come up for medical screening process. Northern Railway authorities are of the view that if the ministry resumes long route trains in the next 15 days, then local railway officials will have to make the use of the vacant space near the Civil Lines to manage work of medical screening and verification of every single passenger returning to city. Apart from that the railway authorities have given directions to the local railway security force to coordinate with local ticket checking staff to ensure proper implementation of safety norms among passengers waiting for their train on the station premises. The ticket checking staff has been asked to share local passenger’s data with the district health department team for early management of the work of conducting medical screening of all passengers and ensure that no passengers leave the station without undergoing the medical test before entering the city limits. The railway has made all CCTVs cameras functional to keep check on the movement of passengers. Railway authorities have also asked the district health authorities to increase the number of health officials for conducting screening of large numbers of migrant workers because heavy rush of migrant labourers is likely to appear at the city railway station in the next few days as festival season is around the corner. Tarun Kumar, Ludhiana railway station director, said, “We are working on the development plan to make use of the vacant space near Civil Lines for medical screening of passengers returning to city in the next few days. The local railway authorities are waiting for railway ministry order on the resumption of several long route trains from second week of August.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/railways-may-use-civil-lines-space-of-stn-for-screening-of-passengers/articleshow/77174504.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Nagpur||5 Vid dists in top-10 for recovery rates in state||Nagpur: Gondia, Bhandara, Akola, Amravati and Chandrapur, five districts in Vidarbha, are among Maharashtra’s top 10 districts with highest recovery rate of Covid-19. Overall, Vidarbha’s recovery rate is higher than the state and national average so far. In district headquarters having municipal corporations, Akola has the best recovery rate in the state. Recovery rate figures released on July 25 show that Mumbai and Sindhudurg (Konkan region), Dhule and Jalgaon (Khandesh region), and Hingoli (Marathwada) are the other in five top-ten districts. Also, Gadchiroli, Yavatmal and Washim districts in Vidarbha are in top 15, which confirms that the overall recovery rate of Vidarbha is better. Gondia, with 91%, leads the state in recovery rate. In municipal corporations, Akola leads Maharashtra with 75.40% recovery. TOI has reported on July 25 that Akola, despite having high number of cases and Covid-19 deaths, has been quite successful in controlling the spread of infection. Akola district collector Jitendra Papalkar said that effective containment zones and aggressive testing was the reason behind these positive results. “Akola has conducted 18,166 tests till date. We are also conducting massive rapid antigen tests,” he said. Akola has 2,412 cases, and 1,980 of them have recovered till date. “Statistical research has proved that Covid-19 spread is under control in Akola. Especially, in municipal corporation area, we have done very effective containment. This experience will help us bring similar control in rural parts too,” said Papalkar, adding that the focus is now on controlling spread in rural parts of district. According to him, more rapid antigen tests will be conducted in rural area. “Our team of SDOs and tehsildars had a meeting today in which we decided to get ready to control Covid-19 in rural areas now. All above 60 years of age will be checked and swab samples of those with low oxygen levels will be collected immediately,” he said. In Gondia, which is leading Maharashtra in recovery rate at more than 90%, the key of success is institutional quarantine of returnees. Gondia has only 245 cases, and most of them are returnees who tested positive during their institutional quarantine period. Total 221 from Gondia have recovered and 3 patients died. Gondia was one of the districts in Maharashtra that remained in Covid-19 green zone for a long time. During this period, they got time to prepare. Till today, 8,179 swab tests have been conducted here by RT-PCR method while 1,211 samples have been tested through rapid antigen method. District collector Kadambari Balkawade has appealed to the people to come forward and test themselves in case they develop any symptoms. Maharashtra districts with top ten recovery rate (On July 25) District| recovery rate Gondia| 90.10% Bhandara| 85% Sindhudurg| 81% Akola| 75.5% Mumbai| 73.15% Amravati| 67.48% Jalgaon| 66.11% Hingoli|65.75% Chandrapur| 63% Dhule| 62% …. VIDARBHA DISTRICTS RECOVERY RATE (As on July 25) Gondia| 90.10% Bhandara| 85% Akola| 75.5% Amravati| 67.48% Chandrapur| 63% Gadchiroli|62.5% Yavatmal|62.4% Nagpur| 62.3% Buldhana| 62% Washim|59.2% Wardha|45%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/5-vid-dists-in-top-10-for-recovery-rates-in-state/articleshow/77196490.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 26, 2020||Chennai||It’s coding from home for school students||CHENNAI: As everything is going is going virtual Alwarpet-based Suganya M, mother of a 10-year-old has recently enrolled her son into coding classes to prepare him for the digital world. “Coding is something needed now more than ever. Covid has made us realise that digital skills are important. So far, the classes are fun, it also improves his logical thinking,” she said. The pandemic is seeing a need for all things online. Some parents want their kids to start early and are enrolling them in additional coding classes. Companies like White Hat Jr and Vedantu are seeing a rise in demand from school students. “Of our 70,000 students from Chennai, 30,000 have joined in the past 2-3 months,” said Sriram Iyer, head of student experience, Whitehat Jr. Parents feel that getting into coding early will give them the advantage. They are turning to online platforms that offer 1-on-1 sessions or classes in small groups. Vedantu’s live coding classes were recently launched and is offering 15,000 sessions a month. “Coding classes are doing well and parents want their children to keep themselves occupied and do something productive in the process,” said Vamsi Krishna, co-founder, Vedantu. Ankush Singla, co-founder of Coding Ninjas, says the connection with the existing curriculum has struck a chord with the students. “Coding doesn’t just prepare you for the jobs, but also lifts up reasoning and logical thinking. The trend we see is that, younger kids from Classes III to V take up block programming and those in Class VI and upwards learn python, HTML and javascript. There are takers for classes in small groups, so that the interaction happens too among peers and the learning is better,”he adds. Kids, too, seem to be interested in the prospect of creating apps and games. “It is fun to see that it is so easy to create our own apps. We are not only making use of the extra time at home, but the assignments are also interesting. I am learning block coding now, which is just learning logic and placing blocks of code in the appropriate places. It is easier for me to actually learn new languages once I learn how coding turns out,” said Shravan S, a student of Class VI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/its-coding-from-home-for-school-students/articleshow/77176527.cms||Aparna Desikan
July 26, 2020||Nashik||Reliance Foundation extends help||Nashik: Nita Ambani led Reliance Foundation has decided to donate raincoats, haversack bags, nebulizers, water purifiers and other things to the Nashik city police Confirming the developments, Nashik police commissioner Vishwas Nangre Patil told TOI that the city police is extremely happy as the Reliance Foundation has come forward to donate these materials. “In fact, the foundation has already sent us samples of the raincoats before they deliver 3,500 pieces. The raincoats will help our police personnel in the monsoon,” added Nagre Patil Nagre Patil and Anant Ambani, son of Nita Ambani, had a discussion and the latter expressed keenness to help the city police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/reliance-foundation-extends-help/articleshow/77173490.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Meerut||Man arrested for sharing fake video of Dalit man being flogged, assaulted in Bulandshahr||Meerut: Police on Saturday arrested a man for allegedly sharing a video on the social media platforms, claiming that Dalit a man is being flogged and assaulted by five to six men in Bulandshahr district. The fake video claimed that incident took place in Dhaturi village of Salempur area. Police officers clarified that the clip is not related to any incident in the area. The police have registered an FIR against him under section 153-A (promoting enmity between two different groups). “A video was made viral with a fake narrative with the intention to vitiate the atmosphere. It was most likely was done to gain some political mileage in the run up to panchayat elections,” Bulandshahr SSP Santosh Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-arrested-for-sharing-fake-video-of-dalit-man-being-flogged-assaulted-in-bulandshahr/articleshow/77173460.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Nagpur||Cops recover valuables worth Rs 16.5L from ‘Dr Mahajan’||Nagpur: Tehsil police have recovered valuables, including a sophisticated car and a two-wheeler, worth more than Rs16.5 lakh from the so-called ‘Dr Ashutosh Mahajan’ who allegedly duped several bullion traders in the city after having fled from Wani in Yavatmal. He is now in the custody of Tehsil police after being arrested on July 23. Three offences have already been registered against Mahajan while more are expected soon. Mahajan used to furnish fake cheques of a Wani-based bank to bullion traders against the purchase of gold and silver. Mahajan has also been booked by Wani police in an alleged rape case and also for cheating a woman from whom he had taken around Rs1.5 lakh. Only a graduate, ‘Dr Mahajan’ posed as either a medical practitioner or a scientist to create awe among his victims. In addition, the trickster’s modus operandi included using a car to reach the targeted jeweller’s shop. Well dressed and armed with good communication skills, Mahajan would strategically park his car in a manner visible to shopkeepers. He also claimed to have visited Dubai for some work. Senior inspector Jayesh Bhandarkar of Tehsil police station said Mahajan is the son of a cook who wanted to make it big in life but chose the wrong path. “We have recovered gold worth several lakhs and the figure could go up to crores. Many bullion traders are approaching us with complaints,” said Bhandarkar whose team of inspector Dileep Sagar, sub-inspector Swapnil Wagh, head constable Laxman Shende, constables Nazir Shaikh, Pravin Manapure and others were instrumental in tracing Mahajan who used to frequently change his location. It’s learnt that the police had procured the address of Mahajan’s native place in Wani from the bank whose fake cheques he had issued to many.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-recover-valuables-worth-rs-16-5l-from-dr-mahajan/articleshow/77175754.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Online classes back in self-financed schools||Ahmedabad: Mobile phones of parents were abuzz with messages from self-financed schools on Saturday about online classes resuming from Monday. This has ended the uncertainty for many students .In a notification dated July 16 and made available on Wednesday, the state education department had directed self-financed schools to not collect fees for the lockdown period till the schools re-open physically. The government has also directed schools not to hike fees for the academic year 2020-21. Schools which have already collected fees from parents will have to adjust them when the schools re-open physically. The decision has not gone down well with many schools and associations with the Federation of Self-Financed Schools, Gujarat challenging the government directive in Gujarat high court. Opposing the Gujarat government’s order the Association of Progressive Schools (AOPS) has decided to launch a #SaveOurSchools campaign on digital platforms. The campaign is aimed to create a voice of concern towards school education , they said a media statement. “We have received tremendous support from parents and other sections of the society,” said Manan Choksi, past president of AOPS. A large number of parents have shown their disagreement towards the government’s decision, Choksi said. “Buoyed by their support, we are launching a digital campaign #SaveOurSchools,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/online-classes-back-in-self-financed-schools/articleshow/77175679.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Nashik||Three undertrials escape from Jalgaon district jail||NASHIK: Three undertrials lodged in the Jalgaon district jail escaped from the prison premises on Saturday morning by threatening the guard with a firearm. One of their associates waited outside the jail entrance with a bike on which the trio escaped. The Jalgaon police said they have formed different teams and a manhunt has been launched across the district. Akbar Patil, police inspector of the Jilhapeth police station (the district jail falls under its jurisdiction) said the incident took place at 7.25 am. At the time, there was only one guard on duty at the gate. The undertrials had managed to source a firearm inside the prison. The trio beat up the lone guard, threatened him with the firearm and snatched the keys to the gate. Outside the prison, their accomplice was waiting with a motorcycle. As soon as the undertrials got out of the jail, they got on the bike and sped away. The criminals have been identified as Sagar Patil, Gaurav Patil, both from Amalner, and Sushil Ashok Magare of Pahur in Jamner taluka of Jalgaon. The police said Magare had earlier been expelled from the police force. He had committed a dacoity at a jewellery shop in Pune last year and was arrested in December 2019 by the local crime branch (LCB) of Jalgaon in December 2019. District guardian minister Gulabrao Patil visited the incident spot along with senior officers of the Jalgaon police. Patil said there was a need to relocate the jail give that there is a densely populated locality right behind it. Moreover, this jail, with a capacity of just 200 inmates, has close to 400 convicts and undertrials lodged in it. The number of security personnel and jail officials here is disproportionately small. The Jalgaon police have published the photographs of the three criminals and have appealed to the public to provide information about their (the criminals') whereabouts. The police said the three men have cases of attempt to murder and a case under the Arms Act against their names. Watch On cam: Three inmates escape from Jalgaon district jail||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/three-undertrials-escape-from-jalgaon-district-jail/articleshow/77173450.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 26, 2020||Chennai||Professionals may soon replace ill workers in Trichy Covid testing lab||TRICHY: After frontline health workers began getting infected with Covid-19, the health department has started looking for alternative arrangements including recruiting qualified hands to run the show. KAP Viswanatham Government Medical College (KAPVGMC) has started searching for qualified people to involve them in Covid-19 testing. Dean of KAPVGMC, attached to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Trichy, Dr K Vanitha expressed willingness to recruit qualified professionals with bachelors or master’s in microbiology or biotechnology for joining the team in its Covid-19 lab on a provisional basis. “If candidates with microbiology or biotechnology degree come forward to work with us on a provisional basis, it would be of great help. Such candidates can be given training on Covid-19 testing,” Vanitha told TOI. She also stated they can take some candidates and train them on Covid-19 testing to substitute the infected staff. As of now, a microbiologist, two lab technicians and a data entry operator at the lab tested positive for Covid-19. Being the only government laboratory in the district, it has the capacity to test 1,200 samples per day. However, a senior doctor in the college said it would be ideal to run 800 tests given the existing infrastructure such as real time-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) machines and RNA extractor machine. The turnaround time for releasing the Covid-19 testing also got longer as the number of samples collected on a daily basis crossed 1,300. Since it took nearly four days to declare the results, the district administration had cleared the backlog by testing around 1,600 samples at a private laboratory. Trichy collector S Sivarasu had also revealed a plan of increasing the testing capacity to 1,500. With one RT-PCR machine malfunctioning recently, the lab managed to run the show with three machines. On Friday, National Research Centre for Banana , Trichy gave them an RT-PCR machine. “We have four machines. The number of machines may be increased soon,” said the dean.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/professionals-may-soon-replace-ill-workers-in-trichy-covid-testing-lab/articleshow/77174515.cms||Gokul Rajendran
July 26, 2020||India||Need to remove fear of Covid to kickstart business: Arvind Kejriwal||Having brought about a remarkable turnaround in the Covid situation in the capital, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tells Alok K N Mishra, in a wide-ranging interview, how faced with a daunting task, his government never lost its nerve and sought cooperation from all quarters to evolve a Delhi model with increased testing and home isolation. Striking a conciliatory note with the Centre, he, however, expressed his reservations about the LG’s move to do away with Delhi govt’s panel of lawyers for the northeast riot cases and the abrupt transfer of Delhi’s director of educationThere has been a consistent turnaround in the Covid situation in Delhi and the positivity rate is dipping sharply. More and more testing, home isolation and increase in the number of beds have been the key factors we know. Since complacency is bound to set in, what strategy are you going to adopt now?• Two things are required to be done. First, no complacency should be allowed to set in. Corona is an unpredictable virus and its future behaviour is unknown. The only parallel is the 1918 Spanish Flu. It had three peaks, and the second peak was much worse. No one can predict the course of coronavirus. All that is being said is conjecture. That is why, we must take all precautions. We must wear masks and maintain social distancing. Some people have become less careful, and I wish to appeal through your newspaper to people to continue being careful and take all precautions. Attention has to be given to the economy too. People are losing jobs, businesses are getting affected. Distress among people is high. People should actively start participating in economic activities while taking all precautions. Tell us about the aggressive testing going on at the ground level. RWAs have been approached to give lists. One sero survey is over and more are going to take place. What is your strategy and objective?• Three kinds of tests are being done – antigen, RT-PCR and antibody tests. The antibody tests reveal whether a person has been exposed to Covid-19 infection in the past 15 days but does not tell you about those currently affected. Antigen tests reveal the status of current infection. These test are being conducted on a large scale in various nooks and corners of the city. The government is approaching citizens to get themselves tested. Like you said, RWAs are being approached and various centres have been opened. Public announcements are being made. For RT-PCR tests, it is the people who come to the government hospitals and flu clinics. A couple of newspapers were critical about the smaller number of RTPCR tests and a greater number of antigen tests. It is claimed that more false negatives are being reported in antigen tests. We are not exerting any control on anything and are trying to work up to the maximum capacity. Delhi has a maximum capacity of carrying out 10,000 to 11,000 RT-PCR test daily. With maximum efforts, up to 9,000 tests are done. Now that Covid cases are declining, fewer people are coming. Since the government approaches people – symptomatic or asymptomatic –for antigen tests, naturally more people test negative. RTPCR also has only 70% accuracy. Even our health minister first tested negative when subjected to RT-PCR. Are you contemplating closing the borders—like UP and Haryana did earlierbecause now the situation elsewhere threatens Delhi?• In principle, I am not in favour of closing borders. How long can you keep them closed? The sero survey report has shown that a quarter of Delhi’s population has antibodies. The survey was started on June 27 and deals with data up to June 10. The pandemic began in the country largely by the end of March. In three months, 25% got antibodies. From June 10 to now, it may have increased by around 8%. I do not know at what percentage herd immunity is achieved because experts have different estimates. But we can safely say that we are approaching herd immunity. In such a scenario, sealing the borders is not required. You were earlier apprehensive that people from outside will come to Delhi.• There was a reason for it. In the month of June, central government experts had come up with a formula. A portal had been set up and only the state governments had access to that. On feeding the data of the past 10 to 15 days, the portal would give you projections. It projected that by July 31, Delhi will have 5.5 lakh Covid-19 cases and 80,000 beds would be required. All hospitals of Delhi, including private, together had 50,000 beds. In case of 80,000 cases, there would have been a shortage of beds. That’s why I had said that for two months, all the hospitals of Delhi would be reserved for people living in Delhi. Now, we are ready to treat all of them if they come here. Delhi seemed to be more reluctant than other states in imposing a cap on testing and hospital charges and other states took the lead.• That difference was only of around a week. In the scenario of a pandemic, capping may have consequences. We treaded with caution. Three states – Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Maharashtra – had capped the prices before us. We studied their models and capped the price for testing and hospital beds. How do you explain the fact that people preferred private hospitals over government ones?• Yes, that’s correct and drew my attention as well. In the first week of June, I got details of occupancy of beds in Delhi hospitals. I saw that on one hand, 1,500 beds were vacant, but stories were being carried in the media about non-availability of beds. When I made enquiries, I learnt that there were 700 beds in private and 3,000 beds in government hospitals. Out of the 700 private beds, around 645 beds were occupied while 1,500 out of 3,000 government beds were vacant. It could also be because more people belonging to the upper strata of society were getting the infection. There are two factors behind this. The first is the 70-year-old mindset of government hospitals and schools being in a bad shape. Now Delhi government schools are very good, but the rich still prefer private schools. Secondly, there were those horror stories from LNJP. We worked on a war footing and took multiple steps. Deaths among suspected cases were very high at that time due to many people not getting beds. We reserved 40% beds in private hospitals. We wanted to take all stakeholders into confidence in whatever decision we took. Without the support of the hospitals, Covid management in Delhi would have collapsed. Reserving 40% beds added 5,000 beds. We then spoke to owners of hotels and 2,000 more beds were added. Why did Union home minister Amit Shah have to visit LNJP, a Delhi government hospital, when there were reports of patients being neglected? Did your government let Centre seize the initiative here?• It is everybody’s hospital and he is welcome to visit. The turnaround in Delhi was due to collective efforts. We realized that we cannot do it alone. We took everyone’s help, including that of the central government, private hospitals, hotels, banquets and NGOs. Due to collective efforts, the turnaround happened. The advice of experts from the Centre was also available to us. There has been a visible tussle between the Centre and Delhi government over claiming credit for the positive change in the situation. What has been the Centre’s contribution, if at all, do you think?• I have said that they can take all the credit, and we will take all the responsibility. They provided help, whenever we sought it. They gave us oxygen cylinders, PPE kits, testing kits. In June, we faced shortage of testing capacity. We sought help from the Centre and they provided rapid antigen testing kits to Delhi before all. The Delhi government did complain about the Centre’s interference, particularly in imposing new guidelines for home isolation.• Home isolation was very critical. It is unique not only in the country but in the world. No other country has this facility. We heard horror stories of how patients were lying on the road in Italy. All those getting infected were being taken to hospitals. The hospitals were full, leaving no space for serious patients. In case Delhi had reported 50,000 active cases, there would have been a severe shortage of beds. Home isolation removes a major burden from the health infrastructure. Secondly, it gives people comfort that they can get themselves treated at their home since no one wants to go to a quarantine centre. That fear discourages people from getting tested, and when they finally do, once their condition deteriorates, it is difficult to save their life. We made home isolation very comfortable. We hired a tele-calling company for regular tele-consultation. We have given oximeter to all patients. It helped many people and they supported it. What was it then that the LG found wrong?• Centre had a misconception about home isolation. According to a study, the central government believed that 45% deaths take place in the first 48 hours. So, they said home isolation is leading to more deaths. We gave them data showing that home isolation deaths are negligible. By that time, 15,000 patients had recovered from home isolation and only around 25 people had died. Only six deaths have taken place under home isolation between July 1 and 15. Had they not withdrawn the home isolation cancellation order, the turnaround in Delhi would not have been possible. At any stage during the unfolding of the epidemic, did you begin to worry about the enormous challenge facing your government?• We never said die…it was our principle. We never lost hope. Recently, the Karnataka health minister said “now only God can save us”. The day the government gives up, you can think what calamity would happen. The government cannot give up. You were very keen to resume economic activity and the unlocking has facilitated that, but recovery is yet to begin. There is a scenario of all-round gloom and doom. What do you think of this and what are your plans to kickstart economic activity?• The biggest plan is to remove the fear of Covid from the minds of people. As the Covid situation improves, migration towards Delhi has begun on a large scale. Workers are returning. As the situation improves and fear subsides, participation in economic activities will increase. Do you think the Centre mishandled the migrants crisis? Was it a good idea not to let them go home initially? Delhi government was attacked for taking the lead but later state governments took the same route?• The timing of the central government was very bad. Ultimately, they had to send them home, but by then the Covid situation had deteriorated. Those who returned now carried the infection to their villages. I think the Centre made some mistakes in its calculations. When the PM asks other states to implement the Delhi model, what do you think he means?• The Delhi model has three principles. Everyone has to realise that it requires collective efforts of governments, society and other stakeholders. Keeping politics aside for sometime is very important. Secondly, criticism should be taken positively. Reports about shortcomings would come from various sources. Several videos used to surface on social media about people facing problems. It is natural to feel angry. It would appear like an agenda driven by the Opposition. We noted down all negative points. LNJP Hospital is the biggest example. There were some shortcomings. It was battered by the media. It was the biggest villain of Covid in the first week of June. We improved each and everything with small but many interventions. CCTV cameras were installed. The same media after three weeks is praising LNJP as the best hospital in Delhi. Had we not taken the criticism positively, it would not have happened. One day at 11pm I saw a video on Twitter while I was going to sleep. A person was standing outside a private hospital with his ailing father. He was critical with a heart condition. A test had been done two days ago. After he tested positive, the hospital had asked him to take him to a Covid hospital. He did not know where to take his father. I called the person and made arrangements for him. We then launched the corona app to make the information reach more people. The third principle is never giving up. The Delhi model consists of home isolation, aggressive testing and isolation, creation of a large number of beds, and plasma therapy. Delhi government’s revenue has been hit very badly. How do you plan to generate the revenue you require for developing Delhi?• For the mainstream economy to be back on its feet again, vanishing of the Covid-19 fear among the people is needed. Mainstream activities have to be encouraged. I believe resumption of the Metro services will play a big role. We will be writing to the Centre to consider running of the Metro. Markets are open but are without customers. I know some restaurant owners who had to close their establishments after opening due to shortage of customers. The time has come for people to participate in the economy with adequate precautions. Do you think the Centre should have followed a uniform strategy to take on Covid and not left it to individual states to do as they please? Which are the states where, you think, the situation is particularly worrying? What did they do wrong?• It is not appropriate for me to find fault with the states. I think every state has a unique situation and I think every state government is doing a good job. The coronavirus is rapidly spreading throughout the country. In Delhi, we took everyone along. Similarly, the entire country will have to come together. Aggressive consultation and discussions are needed, creation of some platforms are needed. Everyone will have to work together. Some good work is being done in different states. Kerala had done good work initially. We should learn from one another and move ahead. Why do you think the Centre is so keen on having its own set of lawyers to argue in the northeast Delhi riots case?• It is unfortunate. The universal principle is that the investigative agency and prosecutors should be completely independent of each other. You have to ensure independent investigation and a fair trial. In Delhi, the police is under the Centre while the Delhi government has the power to appoint lawyers. For lower courts, the police wrote to us in June that we want a certain panel of lawyers. We said the police cannot decide on lawyers because then the prosecution would be prejudiced. That is not a good situation. Then LG said that the police lawyers should be approved by the government. We wrote on the file asking the LG if the lawyers appointed by the government don’t have the capability. The LG wrote back that was not an issue but nevertheless asked for the police lawyers to be appointed. What could be the motive?• There is some problem in intent. In the last two cases, the court stated that the police wants the investigation to be taken in a particular direction. Recently, the court said that they are taking the entire judiciary for a ride. If the courts have questioned the impartiality of the police, it is more important that the lawyers should be independent of the police. Do you think Delhi Police has conducted fair investigations?• The courts have raised questions on the investigations of the police from time to time. In such a scenario, appointment of independent lawyers is more important. They are using the extraordinary power that LG enjoys under the Constitution. The SC had stated that the extraordinary power should be used in the rarest of rare cases. Obviously, appointment of advocates cannot be a rarest of the rare case. Do you think there was a design behind the education director’s transfer out of Delhi soon after the board results were declared. The deputy CM has hinted at that.• I would not say there is a design because there is no evidence for that. I believe that no country can develop without its people getting quality education. Children in all the developed countries get quality education. Education is in a bad shape across the country. Delhi has given a ray of hope. A 98% result in government schools is unheard of. It has never happened in the past 70 years. So those who made it happen should be praised and consulted for improving education in the country rather than being sent to Andamans. What message are we sending? We are an elected government and should be consulted. Then people will stop making accusations that there is a design. How will the government work in such a situation? When the country is facing a huge economic crisis, do you think the Centre should go ahead with the Central Vista redevelopment project which entails a huge expenditure?• I feel that when the country is staring at a challenging revenue situation, it can be postponed and should be postponed. All the state governments are in financial distress and need funds. In Delhi, besides the Delhi government, the corporations too are in financial distress. In such a scenario, we have put several of our projects on hold. There won’t be any harm if the Central Vista project is postponed. Amidst the Covid headache, India has been facing a very serious challenge from China on its borders. Why do you think the country is facing this situation?• China has captured our land. The country and we are with the central government and the Army, but we want to get our land back. Nothing less is acceptable. Twenty of our soldiers were martyred. Any inability to get the land back would not be tolerated by the country and it would also be an insult to the martyrdom of our soldiers. Why has the situation come to this pass?• China has always backstabbed us while we have always extended the hand of friendship to China. In 1962, Jawaharlal Nehru considered China a very good friend and made efforts for friendship. Even then, China had backstabbed. For the past so many years we have been trying to befriend China. India should extend the hand of friendship while being cautious. We should be ready for every move of China. We should not be caught off guard. Will an economic boycott have any impact on that country’s approach to us?• Regardless of what action the government takes, people want out land back. The government is required to take all steps for this. Secondly, it is a big economic opportunity. India’s dependence in terms of imports from China is not healthy. Even our toys are coming from China. This is not good. It would be understandable if we were importing advanced technology from there. Instead, we are importing even goods for our daily needs which is affecting local production and jobs. I believe this is the opportunity when the central government should on a war footing create huge production facilities. A sector-wise list of our dependence should be prepared and industrialists should be invited. They should be given all facilities. It will end our dependence on China, create jobs and boost our economy. Is the unravelling of the main Opposition party, Congress, a threat to democracy? Who will challenge BJP in 2024? How do think the scenario is going to evolve?• Currently, there is a huge political vacuum at the national level. At a time when China is troubling us at the border and the coronavirus has spread in the country, both parties are fighting in Rajasthan. Who will protect the country from China and coronavirus? I am more bothered about the country. At this time, the central government and BJP should have taken the entire country together to fight coronavirus and deal with China. Instead, they are doing dirty politics and horse-trading of MLAs. Efforts for toppling the government are going on. This is wrong. There is a vacuum at the national level. The main Opposition party, Congress, is dead, and there seems to be no alternative to BJP. People are happy with neither the BJP, nor Congress. In such a scenario, an alternative will definitely emerge in the country in future. Only time will tell what that alternative would be. Are you positioning AAP for that role?• AAP is a small party. It will be presumptuous on my part to say that AAP will fill that gap at the national level. Our organization is very small. But people all over the country definitely respect AAP and love it. Due to the work done in electricity, water, health, education and now Covid management, people have hope in AAP and want it to rise up to that role. Only time will tell if AAP will be able to fill that vacuum. There is a clear distinction between Arvind Kejriwal of 2013 to 2015 and now as far as relations between Delhi and Centre are concerned. Earlier, it was a confrontational relationship. Now it is far more accommodating and less confrontational. Is that a reflection of you having given up on any immediate national ambition?Arvind Kejriwal is not important. Arvind Kejriwal does not have any national ambition. We never thought of contesting elections or forming a political party when we used to run an NGO. The entire country knows that we didn’t form a political party or contest elections out of choice but due to compulsions. The then Congress government did not accept our demands. The country is important. People are very powerful and they will give an alternative. Watch TOI Daily: Need to remove fear of Covid to kick start business, says Arvind Kejriwal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/need-to-remove-fear-of-covid-to-kickstart-business-arvind-kejriwal/articleshow/77176531.cms||Alok K N Mishra
July 26, 2020||Coimbatore||Chennai: Despite curbs, crowd swells at Kasimedu fishing harbour||CHENNAI: Kasimedu fishing harbour witnessed a huge crowd on Saturday, a day before the total lockdown, despite several restrictions being put in place. Officials said only wholesale vendors and small-time traders were allowed and that the crowd was better managed on Saturday than on previous days. “We had installed barricades on the wharf at equidistant intervals and megaphone-wielding police personnel were regulating the crowd. Only in the last hour, more people were allowed due to the total lockdown on Sunday,” said an official. Last Tuesday, fisheries minister D Jayakumar announced that sale of fish in Kasimedu fishing harbour will be restricted to five hours — from 3am to 8am. The area is off limits for general public and is meant only for vendors. Sources said sale began ahead of schedule, around 1am on Saturday, to facilitate more sales. “We have been consistently organizing meetings with the fishermen committee representatives to ensure that all vendors wear masks at all times and also that physical distancing is maintained. A token system is in place to allow entry into the market area and the market management committee is also at work already,” said a corporation official. Authorities said Saturdays will see large crowds at the market since it is shut on Sundays. But, officials said they expect the crowd will be streamlined even better in the coming days. According to the new rules introduced at Kasimedu, the number of boats allowed to go fishing on a given day too is restricted to 70 and the catch from only about 50 boats are allowed for sale. The remaining catch has to be sold the next day. Small- and medium-level fish vendors are allowed in four groups of 150 each and only after one group finishes purchase, the next is allowed, said officials. Apart from this, fishermen who use mechanised boat are not allowed to sell their catch in the area earmarked for country boats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/despite-curbs-crowd-swells-at-kasimedu-fishing-harbour/articleshow/77175677.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Kolkata||Local trains run after 4 months for long-distance passengers||By: Koushik Koley KOLKATA: Eastern Railway (ER) operated eight local (suburban) trains after a gap of four months on Saturday to help passengers who had arrived by five long-distance trains at Howrah to reach stations closer to their homes. There were no buses or taxis available at the station due to the statewide lockdown on Saturday. Though a few buses were provided at Howrah station during Thursday’s lockdown, the state government had announced on Friday evening that there would be no buses or other vehicles at Howrah station for passengers on Saturday to ensure lockdown protocol. Eastern Railway also announced the decision to cancel all trains departing from and arriving at Howrah on Wednesday, the next announced lockdown in Bengal. Railway officials claimed they could not cancel the five long-distance trains on Saturday as they had learnt about the state government's inability to provide transport late on Friday. “We received the communication about non-availability of buses at 7.30pm on Friday. While we immediately cancelled all day trains (that make round trips to locations like Patna, Bhubaneswar and the like), the special trains from Delhi and other places had already started and could not be stopped midway as this would have caused severe inconvenience to passengers. Finally, a decision was taken to operate local trains for those travelling to the suburbs. Four trains were run to Sealdah from Howrah via Bandel and Naihati and four more to Tarakeshwar. Some Kolkata-bound passengers travelled on the trains to Sealdah,” an official said. The state government maintained it had been made it clear that no public transport would be allowed to ply and air or rail passengers were not exempt from the lockdown. The last time that suburban trains for common people were run by the railways in Bengal was on March 24. Though some special EMU trains are run daily, they are for railway staff travelling to and from their homes in the suburbs. “Three long distance trains arrived in ER’s jurisdiction on Saturday. These included the special Rajdhani and Poorva Expresses. There was also a special train from Jodhpur that has the same timings as the Jodhpur Express. It was only after arrival of this train from Jodhpur that a decision was taken to run the local trains. South Eastern Railway (SER) also received the Falaknuma Express during the day,” the official added. Both ER and SER have now announced cancellation of all trains that were to reach Howrah on Wednesday, the next day of the lockdown. A similar announcement will be made once the date of the next lockdown is announced. Some officials have tried to reason with the state to allow passengers to at least use private vehicles on such days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/local-trains-run-after-4-months-for-long-distance-passengers/articleshow/77174511.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||CET fined Rs 50k over RTI query||Bhubaneswar: State information commissioner B K Mohapatra has directed the College of Engineering and Technology (CET) Bhubaneswar to pay Rs 50,000 as compensation for not furnishing information sought by an appellant under the Right to Information (RTI) Act. The commissioner passed this directive on July 16 while disposing of an appeal petition filed by Biswanandan Dash. Not only will the institution have to pay the compensation within a month, Mohapatra imposed penalty of Rs 25,000 on CET’s public information officer (PIO) for denying information under the RTI Act. CET principal P K Patra said he would go through the order. “As CET Bhubaneswar is a government college, I will inform the government about the order. The government will take action in this matter,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/cet-fined-rs-50k-over-rti-query/articleshow/77173504.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
July 26, 2020||Nashik||NCP chief, 3 ministers praise top cops in Nashik city & rural||Nashik: NCP chief Sharad Pawar, along with three state ministers, have lauded Nashik rural SP Arti Singh and police commissioner Vishwas Nangare-Patil for maintaining law and order in the entire district during the complete lockdown phase. Pawar had a special word of praise for Singh. He lauded her for constantly camping in Malegaon for two months when the pandemic was at its peak in the textile town. “I have received feedback stating that you have done a commendable job in Malegaon by leading from the front,” Pawar told Singh. The duo had made separate presentations on Friday during the Covid-19 review meeting at the district collectorate office. The presentations were related to the bandobast that was done to restrict people from stepping out of their homes, helping those in distress, providing food to the needy, etc. Besides Pawar, state health minister Rajesh Tope, Nashik guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal and state agriculture minister Dada Bhuse were also present during the meeting. Sources present in the deliberations said that Pawar and the ministers appreciated both the police chiefs for ensuring that there was no untoward incident during the prolonged lockdown in the district as section of people had become restless staying indoors for a long duration. Singh, in her presentation, pointed out how the rural police involved maulanas to appeal to people in the Muslim ghetto of Malegaon to stay indoors, convince the civic body to set up mobile toilets, engaged in distribution of food, masks, sanitizers, etc. among the locals. Nangare-Patil apprised the ministers about the police activities in the city and the help rendered to locals. While serving as frontline Covid warriors, about 120 personnel from Nashik rural police and 49 from city police contracted the contagion. Four police jawans, including three from rural police, succumbed to the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ncp-chief-3-ministers-praise-top-cops-in-nashik-city-rural/articleshow/77173502.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Heavy rains trigger flash floods in Kurnool||TIRUPATI: Heavy rains over the last two days triggered flash floods in several parts of Kurnool and Anantapur districts on Saturday. Streams and dams overflowed in several mandals of Kurnool district, causing anxious moments for people living downstream. A man, who was swept away by the gushing waters along the national highway near Rajapuram village in Gooty mandal of Anantapur district, was rescued by locals some two kilometres away from the spot. Besides Kurnool city, Pathikonda, Kowthalam, Tuggali, Alur, Veldurthi, Aspari, Yemmiganur, Devanakonda, Dhone and a few other mandals received heavy rains since Friday night. Irrigation department officials said the inflows into Handri Neeva project was 25,000 cusecs, while about 32,000 cusecs water was released from Gajuladinne project. The inflows into Handri Neeva is expected to go up to 50,000 cusecs if the rains continue. The project is capable os handling inflows up to 60,000 cusecs. The district administration has sounded an alert for all villages in the low-lying areas to remain cautious. Kurnool MLA Hafiz Khan along with district collector G Veerapandian and SP Kaginelli Fakeerappa inspected the flood situation at Johapuram village on Saturday. “Initiate all necessary measures to ensure the flood situation remains under control. People living in low-lying areas should be ready to move to safer places immediately if an alert is sounded,” the collector told officials. Heavy rains were also reported from several parts of Anantapur district. Cotton, chilly and groundnut crops in hundreds of acres of land were submerged in the flood waters. Vedavati river was in spate following heavy inflows. Traffic along the Guntakal-Bellary route near Donekal village in Vidapanakal mandal was stopped as the roads got submerged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/heavy-rains-trigger-flash-floods-in-kurnool/articleshow/77173499.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
July 26, 2020||Dehradun||Seers: Govt nod to give Rs 1cr to 13 akhadas each||Haridwar: The state government has agreed to provide financial assistance to 13 akhadas to create necessary amenities for their inmates and disciples who will visit Haridwar during the Kumbh. Sharing information with TOI, Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad president Swami Narendra Giri said that besides a grant of Rs 1 crore to each akhada, the government has also promised to award land to four of the akhadas. The Rs 1 crore grant will be utilised in constructing seers’ residence, dining hall, storeroom and toilets under supervision of an official appointed for the purpose by the government. Giri, who met CM Trivendra Singh Rawat in Dehradun, said, "The CM listened to us and assured that the government will do everything necessary for seers and akharas to ensure their cooperation in making the Kumbh Mela a success." A final decision will be taken keeping in mind the Covid-19 situation, he said. A meeting among officials of various akhadas with the CM has been scheduled for August 5 to discuss related issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/seers-govt-nod-to-give-rs-1cr-to-13-akhadas-each/articleshow/77173501.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
July 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||Help pours in for Nepalese student at IIM-A||Ahmedabad: Aashik Jayswal, a student from Nepal who has secured admission in PGP course at IIM Ahmedabad (IIM-A) in Food and Agri Business Management (PGP-FABM) received multiple calls of support on Saturday. TOI had reported on Friday that Jayswal, the son of a farmer, was finding it difficult to fund the course that has all-inclusive fees of Rs 24 lakh for two years.“I received multiple calls on Saturday to understand my problems and how they can help in institutional and individual capacity,” Jayswal told TOI. “One of the calls was from K S Cheema, a Nagpur-based businessman, who offered to provide me a loan without usual formalities, appreciating my stance that I did not want charity and instead loan or scholarship.”Jayswal added that he is in talks with several quarters to work out the terms and conditions. “But now I am hopeful that I would not have to worry at least for the first year,” he said, thanking all the benefactors.TOI had reported that Jayswal was hopeful of getting a bank loan for education soon after he got the admission letter from IIM-A, the top B-school in the country. However, due to his nationality, he couldn’t secure the loan from Indian banks. His family tried to get the loan from Nepal, but they did not have required collateral and thus the chances of getting a loan were bleak.The IIM-A community along with several other IIM and IIT alumni came to his support and assured him that he would get help and he should focus on the first semester of the course. The deadline to pay fees for the first semester is July 31. “I got several offers for crowdfunding but I was adamant – I have come so far on my merit and I would get loan or scholarship for my education,” said Jayswal, who wishes to go back to his roots and work for sustainable farming and education sector in future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/help-pours-in-for-nepalese-student-at-iim-a/articleshow/77175701.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Punjabi University will focus on rural students’||Patiala: In a bid to strengthen online teaching, Punjabi University, Patiala has established a Centre for E-Learning and Teaching Excellence. Now, authorities plan to reach students in rural areas. Varsity registrar Prof Yograj said, “We should be careful about students who don’t have the resources for online teaching. We should devise methods to reach them too. We are trying to come up with plans for this in the near future.” University authorities are still to decide whether teachers will conduct online classes from their homes or from the main campus, constituent colleges and neighbourhood campuses or affiliated colleges. Recently, the university issued a circular announcing that online classes will be held from August 1 but did not explain if teachers would teach from home or from the campus and colleges. While online classes imply teaching from home, the university will issue a notification on this soon, he said, adding, “The guidelines of the state government over Covid-19 cannot be ignored and social distancing norms will not be violated. A notification in this regard will be issued by Monday probably.” The university is conducting a two-day capacity online building programme to train faculty members in online teaching. On Saturday, vice-chancellor, Punjabi University Prof B S Ghuman inaugurated a two-day capacity building programme by the Centre to facilitate the learning and training of teachers for advance preparation for the upcoming academic session. Prof Ghuman said due to Covid-19, it is necessary to streamline online teaching activities. Deputy director Prof Vishal Goel coordinated the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjabi-university-will-focus-on-rural-students/articleshow/77175698.cms||Bharat Khanna
July 26, 2020||Kolkata||Cops’ night drive before lockdown saves the day||Kolkata: Lalbazar had hinted that it would start early on Saturday to ensure that all norms are adhered to on the second day of the bi-weekly total lockdown. However, they took many by surprise by launching the drive from 11pm on Friday itself. The very early start helped cops in establishing two things — that there was night curfew from 10pm to 5am, which was particularly important as lakhs had hit the streets on Friday trying to take advantage of the one-day break between two lockdowns. More importantly, the police tactic also gave out a signal that there would be no let-offs on Saturday. By the time the night rounds got over, 65 vehicles were prosecuted. In comparison, Thursday — the first day of total lockdown — saw 19 prosecutions. Till evening, 14 more vehicles were prosecuted on Saturday. Similarly, 174 FIRs on violation of disaster management norms were drawn up on Friday — a non-lockdown day — barely a few less than 256 registered on Thursday — a lockdown day. The no-nonsense approach was, thus, very much visible from 5.30am on Saturday. Despite it being a weekend, police ended up arresting 625 persons till 6pm on Saturday. Two cops got injured on EM Bypass in the morning while implementing the lockdown. On Thursday, these figures stood a littler over 800. As many as 368 were found to be either not wearing a mask or not wearing one properly. “This is a huge number given not more than 10% of vehicles were on the road,” said an officer. Since there were reports of people gathering in the bylanes of certain pockets on Thursday, drones started flying at Gariahat, Jorasanko and College Street by 8am on Saturday. Every vehicle that was stopped at nakas was checked and the driver’s name written down along with his telephone number if it was found that he was breaking the lockdown. In some cases, cops even clicked photographs of the vehicle. “The next time, if the driver makes the same mistake, we will have our records ready,” said an officer. Yet again on Saturday, the cops put special emphasis on the markets. A majority of the 56 markets that were chosen for a sanitization drive saw cop presence. Local police were asked to put out a status report every two hours. Such was the monitoring that even some milk booths saw cop presence in the morning. “Too many people use this as an excuse to come out,” said an officer at Gariahat. Even after the most elaborate arrangement, there were certain problem points on Saturday as well. At Ajanta Cinema slums in Behala, or the Narkeldanga slum or even in containment zones of Bhowanipore and Dover Lane, people were found trying to assemble in the bylanes. The cops had to chase them down multiple times before finally prosecuting them. There were some violations reported from Beadon Street in the north as well. KMC, too, worked according to a pre-decided plan, especially in the containment areas of Bhowanipore, Ballygunge, Behala, Phoolbagan and Maniktala. Besides a sanitization drive at the vulnerable markets and buildings in these zones and conducting regular swab tests at slums, housing complexes and apartment buildings, the challenge before the civic teams and cops lied in delivering essentials to senior citizens staying at high-rises in containment zones, conceded a KMC official associated with the covid-combat team. According to a KMC official, the civic body extended help through their medical officers in areas where senior citizens are suffering from mild Covid symptoms and thus need medical assistance. “Our medical officers talk to them on phone and listening to their complications before prescribing medicines. Sometimes, even we deliver medicines to their doorsteps,” said a KMC official. On Saturday, KMC also conducted sanitization drives at some of city’s slums as fresh cases are being reported from these areas. Besides, maximum stress was given on conducting swab tests. “Besides collecting swab from slums, we reached out to some standalone buildings for collecting samples from positive patients who have been placed in home quarantine,” said a KMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-night-drive-before-lockdown-saves-the-day/articleshow/77174505.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 26, 2020||Chennai||In lockdown, they got their hobbies to work||CHENNAI: For many of us, until the novel coronavirus locked us indoors, lost hobbies were like the horizon line — close enough to achingly remind you what you missed out on, and far enough to remain out of reach in the relentless humdrum of daily life. But, as the world rushed online when the lockdown began and people tried to find a sense of normalcy documenting day-to-day routines on social media, a few others decided to reconnect to lost interests in real time, and even make a few bucks in the process. While the rest of the city sleeps, home chef Smitha Kuttayya puts on a cheery outfit, sets up some warm lights, fixes her phone on to a tripod, and starts narrating stories in the dead of the night. Smitha had on-stage experience while younger, and taught oratorical skills at the British Council. The lockdown sparked in her a renewed interest in the power of the voice, which she pursued creating storytelling videos for children. As her voice reached far and wide, paid voiceover assignments for curriculum videos and stories poured in, turning it into a promising business plan as well. "It started as something I could squeeze in, in the middle of all the baking," says Smitha. "But I could have never imagined the purpose my voice would serve in the middle of a pandemic — it has taken stories to kids living in slums, and some with visual impairment," she says. "In some years, this could well become my retirement plan." Sixty-five year-old Geeta Venugopal is another city resident who witnessed her love for tailoring reach new heights during the lockdown, as she decided to put leftover handloom fabrics to use and create close to 300 masks, priced at `50 each. Geeta started stitching her own blouses while living in north India where her husband, an Army officer, was posted. It began as a necessity, as she couldn’t find the style and fit she was looking for. While the self-taught skills came handy in making flowy kaftans and dresses for her daughter, later in life, the pandemic opened up avenues like never before for beautiful kalamkari masks and doormats made out of old saris that Priya put up for sale on Facebook. "I have been a homemaker all my life, and spent whatever time I had on the sewing machine," says Geeta. "But now, I feel rejuvenated knowing that my work is reaching more people." At a time when several major industries have had to resort to downsizing and layoffs, hobby-turned home businesses are making way for an interesting new market to emerge, says Rinku Mecheri, chairperson of the FICCI Ladies’ Organisation’s Chennai chapter. "The lockdown has been a great period for home-based businesses on food, alternative lifestyle, wellness, content creation, and digital designing. The demand for home-based products has been high also owing to the risks of the pandemic, when people prefer to know the creator behind the wares," she says. This is something advertising professional and city-based single mom of young twins, Barkha Malpani, knows best. The 32-year-old, who lost her brand management job due to travel restrictions during the pandemic, started extensively blogging about the food she cooked at home, and in no time, found a following willing to pay for her gluten-free pizzas and salads. "I recently had my biggest order for `10,000 from a joint family," says Barkha, who found 60 customers in 20 days, and began selling subscription-based meal kits with soups, salads and health snacks. "It may start as just another distraction, but taking that first step can unfurl the real potential behind a hobby," says Sasirekha Stalinraj. The city fashion designer speaks from experience, as she has, in a matter of three months, grown from a studio owner in Anna Nagar to the neighbourhood’s best creator of mango cheesecakes. After work had come to a halt with weddings and parties getting cancelled, Sasirekha decided to spend her days scouting the internet for new recipes and cook as many of those as possible. But the mango cheesecake emerged the star of her gastronomical adventure, with friends of friends placing orders for birthday celebrations and small get-togethers, pushing her to start and deliver under the name ‘Happiness is homemade’. "I’ve never cooked professionally, and am still figuring out how to standardise the quantity, price and other specifics. But I have certainly found a hook," says Sasirekha, who earns `10,000 through deliveries. "Although my studio work is resuming slowly, it’s going to be a while before it takes off, and until then, this isn’t just getting in some revenue, but is also therapeutic. I look forward to those late afternoons and nights when I can put on some music, and go about baking at my own pace. I’m glad I took that first step."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/in-lockdown-they-got-their-hobbies-to-work/articleshow/77176533.cms||Saranya Chakrapani
July 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Protect widow’s land, SHRC to collector||Hyderabad: The Telangana State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has sought a report from the Suryapet collector on a Dalit widow’s petition alleging that some people plan to grab her land to utilise a portion of it as a burial ground at Akupamula village. A government land of three acres 30 guntas was allotted to Somapangu Muttama at Akupamula near Munagala after her husband, Somapangu Venkaiah, was killed in a political struggle in 1987. In a petition filed in the State Human Rights Commission, Somapangu Muttama, who lives in Repala village, complained that some persons with a mala fide intention planned to grab her land and wanted to utilise it for burial ground on the grounds that she did not belong to their village, Akupamula. Based on her petition, the State Human Rights Commission on Saturday directed the Suryapet collector to take necessary steps for protection of the land and submit a report within two weeks. The matter was posted to September 23. A government land of three acres 30 guntas was allotted to Somapangu Muttama at Akupamula after her husband, Somapangu Venkaiah, was killed in a political struggle||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/protect-widows-land-shrc-to-collector/articleshow/77175704.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Nashik||MUHS defers final-year MBBS UG exam||NASHIK: The Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) has decided to defer the final-year undergraduate MBBS summer 2020 examination till further orders. The varsity had earlier deferred UG exams of all other streams. MUHS controller of examinations Ajit Pathak has informed all medical colleges concerned about the state deferring the final-year MBBS UG exams, which were scheduled to begin from August 4. According to the university officials, the final-year MBBS UG exams were cancelled given the prevailing Covid-19 crisis in the state. In many districts, lockdowns are being re-imposed. Even state medical education minister Amit Deshmukh had directed the varsity to defer all UG exams. MUHS sources said around 641 students were expected to appear for the final-year MBBS UG exams. Had these students appeared for the exam and passed, they would have taken up their internship in hospitals managed by the government and civic bodies in the state, which would, in turn, have increased the number of doctors treating Covid-19 patients in these hospitals. “The university, as of now, has decided to conduct the postgraduate medical exams, which start from August 17,” added officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/muhs-defers-final-year-mbbs-ug-exam/articleshow/77173514.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Nashik||E-governance centres in all districts soon||Nashik: With the inauguration of the first e-governance centre at the Nashik district court, Justice D Y Chandrachud on Saturday said that more such centres will be feature in every district soon with supreme court’s e-committee releasing funds for the same. Citing that virtual courts were introduced during the lockdown period triggered, Justice Chandrachud, who is also the chairman of the supreme court’s e-committee, said that there was a huge technological divide given that the members of the bar and litigants not having access to technology. Thus, it was an obligation of the court to reach out to litigants and bar members and provide them the required access. “Our objective is to provide every kind of facility of e-governance within the judiciary and place it within the access of every litigant and every member of the bar,” said Justice Chandrachud at the digital inauguration of the e-governance centre. Among others who were present at the virtual inauguration of the e-governance centre were chief justice of Bombay high court Dipankar Datta, advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni and principal district and sessions judge Abhay Waghwase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/e-governance-centres-in-all-districts-soon/articleshow/77173536.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 26, 2020||Jaipur||After governor queries, Ashok Gehlot says need session to discuss Covid-19||JAIPUR: Slapped with a list of six questions from the governor on why he wants the assembly convened at short notice, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday sent a revised cabinet proposal to Raj Bhavan for a special House session by next week to discuss the Covid-19 pandemic, take stock of the state's finances and table some bills. The revised proposal to governor Kalraj Mishra capped a frenetic 24 hours for the CM, during which he presided over two cabinet meetings and a CLP discussion in between that ended with Gehlot saying Congress wouldn’t hesitate to take its fight to Rashtrapati Bhavan and the PM’s residence, if need be. A 15-member BJP delegation met governor Mishra with a request to take “appropriate action” against CM Gehlot for “provoking” people to gherao Raj Bhavan while allegedly remaining indifferent to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Leader of the opposition Gulab Chand Kataria said, “The method adopted to demand an assembly session was unfortunate. Staging a dharna at Raj Bhavan till the governor does not give in is immoral and unconstitutional.” Congress units staged demonstrations at all 33 district headquarters during the day, accusing BJP of attempting to topple an elected government through horse-trading of MLAs. The CLP meetingwas held in the city hotel where Congress MLAs have been corralled since July 13. At the CLP meeting held in the Jaipur hotel where Congress MLAs have been corralled since July 13, Gehlot said, “In a democracy, the key aspect is who has the majority. When the majority is with us and we want to go to the floor of the House, it is beyond comprehension why we should be stopped (from asking for an assembly session...Our fight can be the turning point in saving democracy in the country.” AICC spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala was quoted as saying at the CLP meeting that the current crisis would be remembered for how “102 people” crushed the rebellion led by sacked deputy CM Sachin Pilot. Surjewala had been claiming all along that the Gehlot enjoyed the support of 109 MLAs. Referring to the 19 dissident MLAs, AICC in-charge Avinash Pande said, “The party high command insisted that any colleague should be given the opportunity to openly speak up within the family. But unfortunately, they (the dissidents) have become a puppet in the hands of BJP. Now, I do not think they will be able to come back from where they are.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/after-guv-queries-gehlot-says-need-session-to-discuss-covid/articleshow/77176350.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 26, 2020||Delhi||Water colours: Nature makes a splash||Like an art restorer, monsoon has repainted Delhi’s green expanses in brighter hues. At Sunder Nursery and two biodiversity parks, TOI was enthralled by a rich mix of flora and fauna. The feel of the forests within the confines of the national capital served as a gentle reminder that life is beautiful Till only last month, the grass growing naturally around the Batashewala complex in Sunder Nursery was brown and dry. In the fortnight after the first monsoon rain in the capital, the landscape is lush with wild grass, bright purple petunias, small tridax daisies and field bindweed that attract insects and butterflies. After the rains since June end, Delhi’s green areas have undergone a complete change, waking up, as it were, from their slumber to bright life. Jyotsna Lall, director (programmes) at the Aga Khan Trust for Culture, said that while purists would argue for the lawn around Sunder Nursery’s monuments to be manicured, certain areas should be left to grow naturally. “Each step you take among the wild grasses, you will find some insect or another and flowers awaiting pollination,” Lall said, pointing to a bright hued blister beetle. “Till last month, this expanse was brown all around, but look at what the monsoon has done!” Like others of its kind, this blister beetle was the usual red and black and on lantana flowers. A few metres away a luminous purple passion flower bloomed, looking in its complexity like a beautiful rakhi. “Butterflies in particular love the flower of the passion fruit. The larvae feed on its leaves,” informed Lall, adding that each insect at this time of the year is either pollinating or seeking a mate. The 90-acre Sunder Nursery has areas that showcase Delhi’s different habitats, including geographical landscapes like kohi (ridge), bangar (alluvial expanse), khadar (riverine) and dabar (marsh). A wilderness zone across 20 acres, left untouched, brims with wild flora and fauna, and one can sometimes spot snakes, porcupines, even hares, there. When TOI took a walk in each micro-habitat recreated at the nursery, the presence of damselflies and dragonflies in large numbers was another indicator of a healthy environment. Lall pointed out that these were beneficial to humans because they consume mosquitos and their larvae. At the pond there, water striders could be seen walking magically on the surface of the water. A Siris tree stands testament to a synergistic nature, allowing moss, wild mushrooms and an anthill to thrive around it. While Sunder Nursery is a mix of both man-made and natural green area, Delhi Development Authority’s Yamuna Biodiversity Park in north Delhi is mostly a revived wild expanse. It is luxuriantly green at this time of the year, with various grasses growing as tall as human beings. The sound of crickets and the birds chirping give you a feel of a real forest. Faiyaz Khudsar, scientist in charge, pointed out reptiles, amphibians and insects to TOI along the sprawling trail. The black drongo, coppersmith barbet, white throated kingfisher and the green bee-eater were among the several species of birds spotted, in addition, of course to the easily spotted peacocks. “Most birds have hatchlings at the moment, and they actively fly around in search of prey. Reptiles are also common at this time of the year and we’ve already seen several snake species here,” said Khudsar. Amphibians, meanwhile, laze in the pond inside the park, where damselflies and dragonflies hover busily. “This is the best time of the year to capture and see a wide variety of insects and flowers,” added Khudsar. The green revival is almost identical in south Delhi’s Aravalli Biodiversity Park, which only contrasts with the Yamuna Biodiversity Park in being a rocky, Aravalli habitat. M Shah Hussain, scientist-in-charge at the park, says the biodiversity oasis was waiting for the monsoon rain to arrive before kickstarting a flurry of activities. The entire area is now densely verdant, and all fallen leaves decompose and add nutrients to the soil. “You have different trophic structures in the biodiversity park and each structure is thriving at this stage,” said Hussain. “The various grasses have grown tall, and there are new plants and flowers blooming everywhere. Newly hatched birds also have plenty of food in the form of insects, while there is plenty of vegetation material for grazing animals.” Lizards and snakes are particularly common to detect at this time of the year, he said, before adding with quite some delight, “We have also been sighting jackals very frequently these days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/water-colours-nature-makes-a-splash/articleshow/77187959.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
July 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Govt issues new guidelines for disposal of bodies||Bhubaneswar: The state government on Saturday allowed authorities to dispose of the bodies of Covid-19 confirmed/suspected cases as per the custom of the religion/sect of the deceased if the family members were not willing to take part in the cremation or burial. If the religion/sect of the deceased is not known, the authorities may follow either procedure (cremation or burial) for disposal of the body. State special relief commissioner PK Jena on Saturday issued detail guidelines for management of body of deceased Covid-19 patients. The guidelines have been issued based on the advisory issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW). According to the guidelines, if the family of the patient wishes to see the body at the time of removal from the isolation room or area, they would be allowed to do so with the application of the standard procedures. Bathing, kissing and hugging the body are, however, strictly prohibited. While disposing the body at the crematorium/ burial ground, the family members should be allowed to perform the last rites according to their religion/faith without touching the body, said Jena. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-issues-new-guidelines-for-disposal-of-bodies/articleshow/77173519.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Delhi||Count crosses 1.3 lakh with 1,075 fresh cases||NEW DELHI: The total number of positive cases in Delhi crossed the 1.3 lakh mark, with 1,075 fresh cases being recorded on Sunday. A total of 1,807 patients were discharged on Sunday. The city recorded 21 deaths due to Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, pushing the total fatality to 3,827. While the cumulative number of positive cases in Delhi till date is 1,30,606, the number of active cases is 11,904 or 9.1% of total cases. The number of patients who have recovered is 1,14,875. From a high of nearly 4,000 new cases being reported every day mid-June, the figure has come down to 1,000 to 2,000 cases in mid-July. On June 23, Delhi had reported its highest single-day spike, till date, at 3,947. A total of 5,032 RT-PCR tests were conducted on Sunday, apart from 12,501 rapid antigen tests. So far, the capital has conducted 9,46,777 tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/count-crosses-1-3l-with-1075-fresh-cases/articleshow/77187366.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan sees biggest 1-day jump with 1,120 new Covid-19 cases||JAIPUR: In a grim milestone, the state recorded the biggest single-day jump of 1,120 Covid-19 cases on Saturday with major contribution of 313 positive cases from Alwar. In the past six days (from July 19 to July 24), state reported more than 900 cases five times, but it however had not crossed the 1,000 mark. The highest single-day jump, before Saturday, was reported on July 21 with 983 cases. The state also breached the 35,000 mark with total count now at 35,298. Eleven deaths were also reported on Saturday taking state’s toll to 613. Among those 11 deaths, six were reported from Ajmer, taking its death tally to 34, one in Jhunjhunu making it the fifth fatality, three from Kota taking its casualties count to 33 and one from Nagaur, its 23rd fatality. Though Alwar reported highest number of new infections on Saturday, Jodhpur has been the hardest-hit district by far in terms of number of cases. However, in number of deaths, Jaipur is leading the chart with 179 fatalities. Jodhpur reported 271 new infections on Saturday taking its tally to 5,827, which is highest in the state. Active cases touched a new high of 9,379 cases in the state. Three districts in the state have more than 1,000 active cases: Jodhpur (1,708) followed by Alwar (1,574) and Jaipur (1,046). The state has something to cheer about as well. The number of people recovered from Covid-19 has crossed the 25,000 mark as it touched 25,306 with 759 more patients getting cured on Saturday. Districts which reported new cases are Alwar (313), Jodhpur (271), Jaipur (93), Kota (80), Ajmer (67), Barmer (56), Bhilwara (46), Pali (29), Bharatpur (29), Bikaner (27), Rajsamand (18), Banswara (16), Karauli (15), Bundi (12), Udaipur (10), Sawai Madhopur (6), Dholpur (5), Jhalawar (5), Jhunjhunu (5), Hanumangarh (4), Jalore (4), Dungarpur (3), Sriganganagar (2), Chittorgarh (2) and Dausa (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/raj-sees-biggest-1-day-jumpwith-1120-new-covid-cases/articleshow/77177304.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan sees biggest 1-day jump with 1,120 new Covid-19 cases||JAIPUR: In a grim milestone, the state recorded the biggest single-day jump of 1,120 Covid-19 cases on Saturday with major contribution of 313 positive cases from Alwar. In the past six days (from July 19 to July 24), state reported more than 900 cases five times, but it however had not crossed the 1,000 mark. The highest single-day jump, before Saturday, was reported on July 21 with 983 cases. The state also breached the 35,000 mark with total count now at 35,298. Eleven deaths were also reported on Saturday taking state’s toll to 613. Among those 11 deaths, six were reported from Ajmer, taking its death tally to 34, one in Jhunjhunu making it the fifth fatality, three from Kota taking its casualties count to 33 and one from Nagaur, its 23rd fatality. Though Alwar reported highest number of new infections on Saturday, Jodhpur has been the hardest-hit district by far in terms of number of cases. However, in number of deaths, Jaipur is leading the chart with 179 fatalities. Jodhpur reported 271 new infections on Saturday taking its tally to 5,827, which is highest in the state. Active cases touched a new high of 9,379 cases in the state. Three districts in the state have more than 1,000 active cases: Jodhpur (1,708) followed by Alwar (1,574) and Jaipur (1,046). The state has something to cheer about as well. The number of people recovered from Covid-19 has crossed the 25,000 mark as it touched 25,306 with 759 more patients getting cured on Saturday. Districts which reported new cases are Alwar (313), Jodhpur (271), Jaipur (93), Kota (80), Ajmer (67), Barmer (56), Bhilwara (46), Pali (29), Bharatpur (29), Bikaner (27), Rajsamand (18), Banswara (16), Karauli (15), Bundi (12), Udaipur (10), Sawai Madhopur (6), Dholpur (5), Jhalawar (5), Jhunjhunu (5), Hanumangarh (4), Jalore (4), Dungarpur (3), Sriganganagar (2), Chittorgarh (2) and Dausa (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/raj-sees-biggest-1-day-jumpwith-1120-new-covid-cases/articleshow/77177302.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan sees biggest 1-day jump with 1,120 new Covid-19 cases||JAIPUR: In a grim milestone, the state recorded the biggest single-day jump of 1,120 Covid-19 cases on Saturday with major contribution of 313 positive cases from Alwar. In the past six days (from July 19 to July 24), state reported more than 900 cases five times, but it however had not crossed the 1,000 mark. The highest single-day jump, before Saturday, was reported on July 21 with 983 cases. The state also breached the 35,000 mark with total count now at 35,298. Eleven deaths were also reported on Saturday taking state’s toll to 613. Among those 11 deaths, six were reported from Ajmer, taking its death tally to 34, one in Jhunjhunu making it the fifth fatality, three from Kota taking its casualties count to 33 and one from Nagaur, its 23rd fatality. Though Alwar reported highest number of new infections on Saturday, Jodhpur has been the hardest-hit district by far in terms of number of cases. However, in number of deaths, Jaipur is leading the chart with 179 fatalities. Jodhpur reported 271 new infections on Saturday taking its tally to 5,827, which is highest in the state. Active cases touched a new high of 9,379 cases in the state. Three districts in the state have more than 1,000 active cases: Jodhpur (1,708) followed by Alwar (1,574) and Jaipur (1,046). The state has something to cheer about as well. The number of people recovered from Covid-19 has crossed the 25,000 mark as it touched 25,306 with 759 more patients getting cured on Saturday. Districts which reported new cases are Alwar (313), Jodhpur (271), Jaipur (93), Kota (80), Ajmer (67), Barmer (56), Bhilwara (46), Pali (29), Bharatpur (29), Bikaner (27), Rajsamand (18), Banswara (16), Karauli (15), Bundi (12), Udaipur (10), Sawai Madhopur (6), Dholpur (5), Jhalawar (5), Jhunjhunu (5), Hanumangarh (4), Jalore (4), Dungarpur (3), Sriganganagar (2), Chittorgarh (2) and Dausa (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/raj-sees-biggest-1-day-jumpwith-1120-new-covid-cases/articleshow/77177303.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan sees biggest 1-day jump with 1,120 new Covid-19 cases||JAIPUR: In a grim milestone, the state recorded the biggest single-day jump of 1,120 Covid-19 cases on Saturday with major contribution of 313 positive cases from Alwar. In the past six days (from July 19 to July 24), state reported more than 900 cases five times, but it however had not crossed the 1,000 mark. The highest single-day jump, before Saturday, was reported on July 21 with 983 cases. The state also breached the 35,000 mark with total count now at 35,298. Eleven deaths were also reported on Saturday taking state’s toll to 613. Among those 11 deaths, six were reported from Ajmer, taking its death tally to 34, one in Jhunjhunu making it the fifth fatality, three from Kota taking its casualties count to 33 and one from Nagaur, its 23rd fatality. Though Alwar reported highest number of new infections on Saturday, Jodhpur has been the hardest-hit district by far in terms of number of cases. However, in number of deaths, Jaipur is leading the chart with 179 fatalities. Jodhpur reported 271 new infections on Saturday taking its tally to 5,827, which is highest in the state. Active cases touched a new high of 9,379 cases in the state. Three districts in the state have more than 1,000 active cases: Jodhpur (1,708) followed by Alwar (1,574) and Jaipur (1,046). The state has something to cheer about as well. The number of people recovered from Covid-19 has crossed the 25,000 mark as it touched 25,306 with 759 more patients getting cured on Saturday. Districts which reported new cases are Alwar (313), Jodhpur (271), Jaipur (93), Kota (80), Ajmer (67), Barmer (56), Bhilwara (46), Pali (29), Bharatpur (29), Bikaner (27), Rajsamand (18), Banswara (16), Karauli (15), Bundi (12), Udaipur (10), Sawai Madhopur (6), Dholpur (5), Jhalawar (5), Jhunjhunu (5), Hanumangarh (4), Jalore (4), Dungarpur (3), Sriganganagar (2), Chittorgarh (2) and Dausa (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-sees-biggest-1-day-jumpwith-1120-new-covid-cases/articleshow/77176383.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Wine shops get an hr to do accounts||Vijayawada: The government on Saturday issued orders to keep liquor shops open till 9 pm. However, sale of liquor would be closed at 8 pm. The one-hour extension has been given for finalisation of accounts, the order stated. The decision was taken following a request by the managing director of AP State Beverages Corporation Limited for extension of time to finalise accounts at the liquor outlets. The shops were facing technical issues as daily sales proceeds, reconciliation of stock and cash have to be done on the same day to be integrated with the CFMS. The government, in its earlier order on Sept 30 last year, had allowed wine shops to remain open till 8 pm. After the easing of lockdown norms, the operational hours were reduced to 7 pm, but no GO was issued in this regard and the shops continued to remain open till 8 pm as per the earlier order. Now, in its latest order, sale of liquor has been allowed till 8 pm, while the shops can stay open till 9 pm for accounting purpose. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/wine-shops-get-an-hr-to-do-accounts/articleshow/77173550.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 19 held for not maintaining social distance at arcade||HYDERABAD: An organiser and 18 others were taken into custody on Friday night by Task Force sleuths for allegedly running a gaming parlour in Musheerabad. Task Force sleuths said that the organiser, Syed Moinuddin, had been organizing video games by collecting money from the participants during the night. Officials said that it was a violation of lockdown rules as there was no physical distancing and some of them were not even wearing masks. The organiser was allegedly allowing gambling while playing these video games. Police seized Rs 9,555 cash, various gadgets and 5 television sets. All the 19 members were handed over to local Musheerabad police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/19-held-for-not-maintaining-social-distance-at-arcade/articleshow/77175749.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Solider provides aid to the poor in Nanded||AURANGABAD: Pravin Dewde, a solider associated with the engineering regiment of the Indian Army, is among the frontrunners in the race to help the needy and the poor in Nanded amid the ongoing pandemic. Dewde, who had arrived in Nanded on a leave on March 22, just before the first lockdown, has helped many people from the economically weaker sections of the society by offering ration kits and other essentials. “I could not sit at home in peace when the Covid-19 outbreak raised its ugly head. I created a formal group ‘Veer Sainik’ and sought help from friends and others to reach out to the poor and needy amid the current crisis. The response was overwhelming and we could reach to many disadvantaged families,” he said. Dewde, who has received formal appreciation letters from the Nanded district administration, has delivered over 2,500 ration kits at the doorstep of the needy and the poor. He has also supplied food, drinking water, fruits and masks among other items to the affected families. The ‘Veer Sainik’ group has also offered help to frontline workers such as policemen and doctors. “A solider cannot be off-duty. While we protect borders of the country to protect our countrymen, we are pitted against the same duty now while battling with the pandemic,” said Dewde.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/solider-provides-aid-to-the-poor-in-nanded/articleshow/77173543.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||OJEE adds online exam centres in five more cities||Bhubaneswar: The Odisha Joint Entrance Examination (OJEE) on Saturday added online exam centres in five cities — Angul, Baripada, Bargarh, Jeypore and Keonjhar. Sources said students usually travelled to big cities for the OJEE. This year, the OJEE authorities have decided to open online exam centres in more places to reduce the load on big centres and cut down on travel. “Students do not want to travel too much for exams. So we opened online exam centres in some other cities and towns. The number of computer-based test centres is now 15,” said an OJEE official. Students have already applied for the exam. If anyone wants to change or modify their choices, they can do it by July 31. “Candidates who have already completed the application process can also modify their choice of exam centres between July 24 and July 31,” said the notification. The detailed exam schedule will be notified depending on the situation after July. The OJEE is held every year for the purpose of holding a common entrance exam for admission to undergraduate/postgraduate professional courses including B.Tech, M.Tech, MBA, MCA, M.Pharm and B.Pharm in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/ojee-adds-online-exam-centres-in-five-more-cities/articleshow/77173574.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
July 26, 2020||Nashik||Nashik civil surgeon: DCH for critical cases||Nashik: The district civil surgeon would be calling a meeting of all medical officers of rural hospitals and hospitals under the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), and will be coordinating with the officials of Nashik zilla parishad health department to ensure that only critical patients get referred to the district covid hospital (DCH) given the shortage of beds there. Over the past month, all the beds at the DCH have remained occupied at most times. As a result, it had become a challenging task to accommodate the new critical patients. Jagdale said there were three categories in Covid patients – those with mild symptoms, those with moderate symptoms and those who in need of critical care. Only 10% or less need critical care and treatment at the DCH. Patients with mild or moderate symptoms can be treated at the Covid care centres (CCCs) or dedicated Covid health centres (DCHC).Jagdale said apart from calling a meeting through video conferencing, they would also address all doctors in the district through a common social media group. The medical officers of the CCCs and DCHCs will be told to ensure that only patients in need of critical care are sent to the DCH. Officials said often, when a person tests positive for coronavirus, the patient and relatives panic and seek to get admitted at the DCH. However, patients with mild or moderate symptoms can be cured only by medicines at the CCCs and DCHCs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-civil-surgeon-dch-for-critical-cases/articleshow/77173596.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 26, 2020||Mangaluru||Students log in for classes from hilltop tent in Mangaluru||MANGALURU: For 14 students and a lecturer from Perla in Shibaje village of Belthangady taluk, it is a daily hike of 1-3km to a nearby hilltop to access internet for online classes. The spot has turned into a campsite of sorts, with a temporary tent of tarpaulin and saree-screens. “Most of us carry mobile phones and power banks. We cannot carry laptops because there is no charging point,” says Soundarya Kairanda, a lecturer at Arasinamakki Government Junior College. From mid-June, the students have been trekking every day to make sure they don’t miss the online classes, she says. Students' tent made of tarpaulin and sareesDeepak Hebbar, a II PUC student, attends classes between 9am and 4pm, with a one-hour lunch break at noon when he rushes home. There are about 150 houses in the area, and around 100 students. Some students carry tiffin boxes as well. Skanda Prasad, an engineering student, has an online internship between 4pm and 6pm and it can get dark and scary in the evening. We also fear the movement of elephants and leopards here,” says Soundarya. M Deekshith Hebbar, an engineering student from Bengaluru, said: “Four of us, including Deepak and Deemanth in class 9, and Soundarya thought of putting up a tent in between trees so we could sit down for lessons. Now it is more like a study tent and people take turns based on their online class sessions. “When the place gets too crowded, we face network issues,” he says. Skanda says he comes to the tent as the BSNL landline connection at home snapped during asphalting of the road and was never restored. “There are students who sit with mobile phones on the roadside and even bus stands for online classes,” he says. Residents have been demanding a mobile tower for over a decade and had even petitioned the Prime Minister’s Office about four years ago. Watch E-education: Students attend online classes from hilltop in Mangaluru||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/students-log-in-for-classes-from-hilltop-tent-in-mluru/articleshow/77173522.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
July 26, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Mob attacks cops, revenue officials in Tikamgarh district||BHOPAL: A mob, mostly comprising women, attacked and chased away a team of police personnel and revenue officials who had gone to measure encroached land in a village in MP’s Tikamgarh district on Saturday. The land delimitation exercise was being carried out in Baldeogarh, about 30km from Tikamgarh district HQ and 300km from Bhopal. A revenue inspector (RI) and patwaris, escorted by armed policemen, went to measure government land, some of it under encroachment. As they began work, villagers started gathering. “For some time, things looked normal. But then, the villagers started shouting. There was commotion. Some of them rushed at us and started manhandling us. The cops tried to intervene but in vain,” said RI Kaushlendra Singh. Groups of women attacked cops, who had assault rifles slung across their shoulders. The policemen showed restraint and didn’t hit back. When the attackers pressed on, the policemen fled. Seeing things spin out of control, the RI picked up his equipment and started moving away. But the villagers chased him. “They wanted to kill our officer. They were screaming and chasing him. The RI and others had to run away,” said Chandrakanta Prasad Samari, president of Patwari association of Tikamgarh. SHO of Baldeogarh police station Baijnath Sharma said, “We have booked seven people and are trying to identify the others. More names will be added to the FIR. They have been booked under IPC for threatening to kill and obstructing government work.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mob-attacks-cops-revenue-officials-in-tikamgarh-dist/articleshow/77175714.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Chennai||Martial Arts go hands-free||CHENNAI: From a sport that relies on contact to a stay-at-home contactless activity, martial arts classes have seen a transformation in the past few months owing to the pandemic. With martial arts tournaments going virtual, masters and coaches have now begun to help students focus more on techniques, form, and appearance than on the actual sparring. "Opponents don’t meet on the mat anymore; they compete from their living rooms. And that has changed the way the tournaments are held," says Hariharan G, 27, a national taekwondo instructor and referee based in Chennai, who aims to train his students for the newly introduced virtual international taekwondo championships. It’s not the most powerful student who is winning now, but the one who has the most finesse. Virtual tournaments now focus on movements and techniques that are performed individually, rather than sparring with opponents. The participants of online tournaments are expected to submit short videos required under their category. Althaf Alan, general secretary of the referee commission, karate association of India, says, "A panel of judges determine the winners by grading each participant based on factors such as positioning, angle of each kick or punch, stance and perfection of movement." S Harish Prabakaran, 20, gold medallist at the international karate e-championship held on April 30, says, "It was nerve-wracking yet interesting" despite it being the first-ever competition where there was no one to cheer him. "Coming to a fight without the audience cheer was new and required more focus." Shivangi Biswas, a gold medallist at the Covid-19 international virtual taekwondo championship held in June, says e-tournaments are stressful. "As they replay our video during the panel judgement, we get to analyze our performance. Though it is not as interesting as physical tournaments, they help us perfect the sport," she says. However, the downside to the e-championships is the dependency on a camera for showcasing techniques. "We were disappointed as we could not participate in this year’s tournament due to a lack of proper equipment. A mistake in camera technique and usage can create a huge impact," says Hariharan. Relying on camera angles or a good cameraperson makes the tournament much more difficult, he adds. The introduction of online tournaments has driven martial arts trainers to focus more on the nuances of each technique during their online session, rather than on sparring or fighting. A taekwondo-based striking instructor at Four Pillar fight academy, Teynampet, Kartikeyan Sudha says, "With e-tournaments being more movement-centric, every technique has to be broken down and shown from different perspectives during the online sessions for the student to fully grasp what is being taught." He now implements games in his sessions to enhance speed, and to understand distance and timing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/martial-arts-go-hands-free/articleshow/77176534.cms||Harshitha Kumayaa
July 26, 2020||Meerut||UP: 784 waterbodies revived in semi-arid Mathura||AGRA: For years, Archana Devi would spend her morning walking several kilometres to fetch water. The family in Mathura’s Farah block had no piped water connection and the only pond in their area ran dry. Often, children would miss school to help their mother. But that was until this year.  Now the pond in their block — the source of drinking water for 5,000-odd families in the area — is again replete with water. “There is no need to go looking for water any more. What we get in the pond is drinkable and fresh,” said Archana. The pond in Farah is among 784 natural water bodies in Mathura that have been rejuvenated under a Rs 6 crore project by the district administration. These also include ponds of religious importance like the Kamal Kund and the Narad Kund. The revival of water bodies in the semi-arid region has also improved the groundwater table and quenched the thirst of several parched blocks. A study by jal nigam (Agra division) conducted in January this year found successful groundwater recharge in Mathura. “Water level in certain areas has risen by 60 cm and the total dissolved solids (TDS) levels have gone down by an average of 84 ppm,” said the study. Chief development officer (CDO) Nitin Gaur told TOI that poor water quality due to industrial pollution from Delhi and the ever-increasing dependency on groundwater had led to depleted water table across the district. “While three blocks were declared ‘over exploited’, one block was found to be ‘critical’. We decided to rejuvenate the water bodies,” said Gaur, adding that where the ponds were close to the river, water channels were dug to fetch river water, while pumps were used at some places to fill up the ponds. Gaur said water bodies play an important role in maintaining and restoring the ecological balance. They act as sources of drinking water, recharge groundwater and control floods. Out of 2,015 ponds listed in the revenue records after Independence, 1,062 were identified and of these, 784 have been filled with water. Officials said the remaining ponds are either under litigation due to “illegal encroachment” by villagers or require more funds and efforts for rejuvenation due to their physiography.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/784-waterbodies-revived-in-semi-arid-mathura/articleshow/77173583.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh sees rise in vigilance against ‘objectionable’ posts online||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh has seen a spurt in cases against people who post objectionable material on social media sites. Even those posting political posts against some leaders are also booked. As many 35 people, including a few government employees, have been booked for writing ‘objectionable’ material against the state government during the lockdown period. Cases were also registered against 49 people after a complaint was lodged by the high court register for allegedly posting negative comments against judges and some judgements. On June 23, AP crime investigation department sleuths arrested two political activists, C Krishna Rao from Nandigama and Nalanda Kishore Babu from Vizag, for posting and sharing “unverified and malicious news” against the state government on social media platforms such as Facebook and Twitter. A dedicated cybercrime wing within the CID has been taking action based on complaints from politicians, besides taking suo moto cognisance in some cases. The crackdown began with the controversial arrest of anaesthetist Dr Sudhakar at Narsipatnam on May 17. Sudhakar first posted a video claiming that there was a shortage of N95 masks in the hospital which resulted in his suspension. He then allegedly created a ruckus on the highway and was arrested by the police. Eventually, the AP high court ordered a CBI probe regarding the entire incident. Then on May 19, CID arrested a 66-year-old woman, identified as P Ranganayakamma, for raising 20 ‘objectionable’ questions against the government on the Vizag gas leak incident. After much condemnation, the CID went on to defend the action taken against her and issued a press release stating that she was spreading ‘misinformation’. “If this is her first offence, she is liable for imprisonment up to three years and a fine of Rs 5 lakh. If she repeats the offence, she would be sentenced to five years’ imprisonment, besides a fine of Rs 10 lakh,” the CID mentioned in its statement. Another man, Malladi Raghunath, too was booked as accused No 2 for sharing her views on Facebook. Civil liberties activists have criticised the crackdown on free speech. Speaking to TOI, K Ramakrishna, a civil liberties lawyer based in Guntur, said previously cops used to book cases under Section 66-A of the IT Act. “Now, they are relying on Section 505 (b) of IPC which means disturbing public tranquillity, creating disturbance, and increasing hatred against the state, public order distraction, and Section 120 (b) for criminal conspiracy,” he said. “Some sections are included based on the severity of the social media posts. However, if a person merely hints and uses no photos to criticise someone, then it is very difficult to prove anything. Officials should listen to all the voices including the ones that are dissenting in nature,” Ramakrishna added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/andhra-pradesh-sees-rise-in-vigilance-against-objectionable-posts-online/articleshow/77173627.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
July 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Call to test butchers for Covid ahead of Eid||AURANGABAD: Congress city district president Hisham Osmani has demanded mandatory testing of butchers for Covid-19 before Eid-ul-Zuha, which will be celebrated here on August 1. The demand was made during a meeting with civic body administrator Astik Kumar Pandey and district collector Uday Choudhari on Thursday. “We need to rise above vote-bank politics and understand the risks involved in the possibility of infection that may spread through butchers,” Osmani told TOI on Saturday. The Congressman requesting the authorities to direct the antigen testing teams to focus on butchers ahead of Eid, he said only those butchers who have tested negative for the contagion should be allowed to help in the slaughtering of animals. A senior official said the biggest limitation for the administration is that butchers are not organized workers. “This makes it difficult for us to track down each one of them and make them undergo testing.” Echoing his views, a civic official said that the municipal corporation has a list of only those butchers who have obtained license for shops. “However, there is no record of the total number of butchers. Generally, many people, professional and non-professional, don the garb of butchers during the Eid to make money,” added the official. During the three-day festival, a large number of animals are sacrificed and the meat is distributed among neighbours, relatives and the needy. Meanwhile, demand has been growing from the Muslim community in the city to give permission to a limited number of people to offer Eid prayers while maintaining social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/call-to-test-butchers-for-covid-ahead-of-eid/articleshow/77173612.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||BMC widens scope of rapid antigen tests, extends them to vulnerable workers||Bhubaneswar: To quickly filter people suffering from Covid-19 from those who are disease-free, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to conduct the rapid antigen test among those sections of the population that are more at risk of infection. Earlier, it was conducting these tests only in hospitals. From Saturday, around 400 antigen tests will be done on a daily basis on vulnerable people like vegetable, fish and meat vendors, factory workers, construction labourers, police and fire personnel, civic body staff and others likely to contract Covid-19 virus given the nature of their jobs. On Saturday, fish vendors of Unit-IV fish market were administered the rapid antigen test. The BMC had last week had sealed the Unit IV fish and meat markets — the city’s biggest — as four Covid cases had been detected there. The BMC is yet to disclose the results of the tests done on Saturday. BMC commissioner Prem Chandra Chaudhury said the 400 tests daily would help them know the extent of the spread of the infection among people engaged in group activities. “This will help us segregate infected people from non-infected ones. The biggest advantage of the test is that the results are obtained in a short time. This will stop the spread of the virus,” he told TOI. Earlier, the BMC had decided to use antigen tests in hospitals only for in-patients and for those admitted for the purpose of surgery. However, rising cases among the vulnerable groups prompted the BMC to increase the scope of rapid antigen testing in the city. The commissioner further added that the antigen test, which reports true positives, was going to be helpful in factories and in the construction sector since by the time the result of the RT-PCR tests come in, the chance of an infected person spreading the virus increases. “The antigen test result will help us make quick intervention. Construction workers work in close proximity with each other,” said an officer of BMC. In a video release, the commissioner said the Covid situation in the slums was not as grim as it was earlier. Four slums — Mahisakhal, Trinath basti, Sitapur basti and Ganapati basti — are currently under containment. “Against a total of 953 active cases in the city now, only 201 are from slums,” he said. On Saturday, the city reported 111 cases out of which 62 are from quarantine (home and institutional) and 49 are local cases. This takes the city’s Covid tally to 1,828. The number of recoveries was low on Saturday, only 29. The recovery rate now stands at 47 per cent. So far, the city has seen 863 recoveries and 11 deaths. The fresh cases reported on Saturday are isolated cases with the localities reporting one or two cases each. The patients, who were discharged on Saturday, are between the ages of three and 75 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bmc-widens-scope-of-rapid-antigen-tests-extends-them-to-vulnerable-workers/articleshow/77173632.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Nashik||CHOs to be roped in for treatment||Nashik: The district health department of Nashik Zilla Parishad has decided to rope in community health officers (CHOs) following the shortage of doctors to treat patients at the Covid facilities in the rural areas. Kapil Aher, the district health officer said there are 298 CHOs who would be roped in for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. The CHOs are usually BAMS (Bachelor of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery) and BUMS (Bachelor of Unani Medicine and Surgery ) medical practitioners who have proper training in treating patients. Aher said the number of Covid cases were rising across the rural areas and the shortage of doctors was being felt at the Covid facilities after every few days as they had to be relieved from the duty for couple of weeks. Auxiliary Nursing Midwifery (ANMs) and health workers at the sub-centres carried out the routine work in the absence of the CHOs. Aher said the CHOs will be roped in for seven days and will be called back after two or three weeks. The CHOs will be provided with all the necessary training to handle the treatment procedure at Covid facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/chos-to-be-roped-in-for-treatment/articleshow/77173634.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 26, 2020||Nagpur||Ops on to stop Naxals during martyrs’ week||Nagpur: Gadchiroli police are working on two basic inter-state border operation exercises to stop temporary movements and migrations of the Maoists from Telangana and Chhattisgarh to Maharashtra and back. Apart from reinforcing local dalams and formations for a show of strength, the Maoists also move across state borders to evade police operation. State security forces either jointly operate the inter-state borders during operations or conduct solo operations based on inputs. With the Maoists’ ‘Naxal saptah’ or martyrs’ week set to commence on July 28 like every year, the Gadchiroli-based security forces have started mounting pressure on the rebels to ensure their weeklong programme and related activities are foiled. It’s reliably learnt that the Gadchiroli-based dalams, depleted by surrenders and deaths of their key leadership, are being reinforced with manpower from other states, especially Bijapur from Chhattisgarh. According to a reliable source, Maoists seek reinforcement from other adjoining states for carrying out an ambush. They also summon reinforcement to conduct meetings in villages with large numbers to create a misleading impression of their existing strength. The Maoists focus on the weeklong period of ‘Naxal saptah’ to highlight the sacrifices of their comrades stating that they had laid down their lives for the causes of the tribal’s rights and liberate them from oppressions. The Maoists also try to make their presence felt by triggering sabotage activities. SP Shailesh Balkawade said inter-state border operations with the Telangana and Chhattisgarh states are on. “Apart from collaborative actions with other state parties, district police’s elite C-60 commandos also conduct operations in the core areas along the state borders. The state forces penetrate into each other’s border by two-four kilometres as a routine exercise during operations,” he said. Balkawade said operations are also conducted within the districts to push the dalams towards the border after flushing them out from their bases. He said the Maoists are not being allowed to easily get reinforcements and try to restrict them by numbers and strength so that they give up and surrender.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ops-on-to-stop-naxals-during-martyrs-week/articleshow/77175760.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||BMC adds 4 more rapid response teams to speed up contact tracing||Bhubaneswar: To reduce the time taken to trace contacts of Covid patients, the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) has set up four more Rapid Response Teams (RRTs). With this, the number of RRTs here has increased to 14. “Contact tracing of patients is taking more than 24 hours at present. More RRTs can bring down this time to under 24 hours,” a BMC official said. An RRT comprises medical professionals with specialization in community medicine, Ayush doctors, nurses and auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs). Each RRT team has four to five professionals and their job is both static and mobile. “The bulk of the day’s contact tracing is done by the RRTs. It takes time to trace the primary contacts of Covid patients. We had 10 RRTs and we added four so that contact tracing can be achieved in less than 24 hours,” said BMC commissioner Prem Chandra Chaudhury. When people coming from abroad or outside the state are placed under quarantine, the RRTs also have to visit them to see if they are adhering to Covid-19 protocol. During these visits, the RRTs check to see if they have broken quarantine rules and met people. If they have, the RRTs take the necessary phone numbers and addresses from them, said a BMC officer. The job of the RRTs begins from the time they get the data of Covid positive persons. “We were managing with 10 teams but things got difficult when the number of cases surged past the 100 mark. This caused the contact tracing exercise to slow down. To reduce the time needed for contact tracing, which actually helps us narrow down the number of Covid suspects, more manpower was required,” the commissioner added. The BMC officials said the RRTs also helped move Covid patients to hospitals. Also, there are instances of people in home isolation not adhering to the norms. In that case, the RRTs take the help of neighbours to keep an eye on the indisciplined persons. The RRTs also talk to the Resident Welfare Associations and slum committees on people in home quarantine, an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bmc-adds-4-more-rapid-response-teams-to-speed-up-contact-tracing/articleshow/77173657.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Nashik||Rain in dry parts of Nashik district||Nashik: The dry regions of Nashik district received good amount of rainfall on Friday, as a result of which kharif crops that were on the brink of wilting, got new lease of life. Many regions of the district, including Malegaon, Baglan, Chandwad and Niphad talukas, received rainfall, resulting in the rivulets and nullahs overflowing even as waterlogging was also observed in urban areas of the talukas. Malegaon received 61 mm rainfall, closely followed by Baglan taluka that received 57mm, Niphad received 29 and Chandwad received 28. Sinnar taluka received 10 mm rainfall while Deola received 12 mm. All these regions usually witness good amount of rainfall only in September and October. However, the rainfed regions, including Nashik, Igatpuri, Trimbak, Dindori, Peth and Surgana, received very less rainfall. The farmers in the regions are longing the characteristic rain this year. There has been no rainfall in July as against 130% of average monthly rainfall witnessed in June alone. Meanwhile, no damage to life and property has been reported so far though a large number of areas in urban places witnessed water logging on streets and open spaces. At some places, water even entered the houses of slum-dwellers. Crops like soybean, maize, tomato and onion got the all-important water for their survival. The rainfall played an important role in the current situation when sowing was carried out by farmers. “We hope that the rain continues for some time so that farmers reap the benefits of their laborious work in the fields,” said Sanket Kothule, a farmer from Niphad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rain-in-dry-parts-of-nashik-district/articleshow/77173658.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Nashik||WRD minister for tourism development in Igatpuri||Nashik: Water resources department (WRD) minister for state Jayant Patil said the government would invite private parties for tourism development in and around the waterbodies in Igatpuri to provide employment opportunities to the people here as well as bring economic development in the region. The water resources department has huge tracts of land which are lying vacant. Moreover, many private lands are available around the water bodies. “The state government is planning to encash on the waterfalls and the surrounding natural beauty by developing ropeways, boating facilities, wellness centres. The private parties will be given a chance to invest, earn and share revenue with the government as well as the locals,” said Patil who was speaking to officials and farmers during his visit to Nashik on Saturday. There are various ways of boosting tourism in and around Bhavali dam whose picturesque natural surroundings draw a large number of tourists from major cities like Pune and Mumbai especially during the weekends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/wrd-minister-for-tourism-development-in-igatpuri/articleshow/77173648.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 26, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC sets aside order on flats for Covid battle||MUMBAI: Bombay high court quashed and set aside an order of a Thane collector over requisitioning 84 flats in two buildings in Ambernath for a Covid-19 quarantine facility and directed him to take a fresh decision in two weeks taking into account that possession letters were issued to flat-buyers . A bench of Justices N M Jamdar and Abhay Ahuja this week observed that the “factual position’’ was not placed before the collector by municipal authorities that the flats were sold. HC directed, “What will be the consequences of creation of third-party rights in the flats upon requisition of the premises will have to be decided by the collector when the requisition order is passed’’ and said the order was based on “wrong premises’’. There were three petitions, including those by flat-buyers and the developer, before HC. They had challenged requisition of the premises in a 11-building layout. The petitions concerned buildings A1 and A2 in Prasadam Gruhasankul, phase 1. The collector had on June 25 requisitioned the flats for the battle against Covid. Petitioners Riddhi Agrawal and others, through lawyers Naushad Engineer and Anand Pai, said they were issued possession letters, so the flats cannot be treated as “lying vacant”, while a petition by Darshana Damle and others through their counsel, Sayad Nagamia, said they owned the plot where the buildings stand. The third petition by Sai Ashray Developers, argued by advocate Nilesh Gala, said they developed the building and Ambernath municipal council was informed on June 17 that the flats were sold, so it was not possible to give possession of the flats. The collector, referring to a municipal council request on June 23, passed the requisition order. Assistant government pleader P G Sawant said the council letter did not refer to the factual position. The flats are not occupied by patients but initial steps of setting up infrastructure had begun. HC ordered a status quo till a final decision is taken by the collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bombay-hc-sets-aside-order-on-flats-for-covid-battle/articleshow/77175061.cms||Swati Deshpande
July 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad police nab 4 cyber criminals from Bihar||AURANGABAD: The cybercrime branch of the Aurangabad city police has nabbed four men accused of withdrawing cash from ATM units without even the bank servers sensing or detecting the withdrawals. Cyber police were shocked to see the innovative device capable of temporarily making an ATM’s sensors defunct. The probe has revealed that the device was designed and created by these accused, who had not even completed HSC. The four accused have been identified as Surajsingh alias Bambam (27), Pikukumar Singh (22), Abhishek Singhvi (29) and Prakash Kumar Singh (28), all of them from the Nawada district of Bihar. They have been arrested and the local court has remanded them in five-day police custody. They had come to Aurangabad on July 9 with the intention to steal money using their device, but the complete lockdown that started on July 10 scuttled their initial plans. They could put their plan to action only on July 19. However, on July 21, the cyber police learnt about the movement of this gang and started tracking them, before nabbing them on Saturday. A total of 18 debit cards, virtual accounts, high-end laptop, eight mobile phones, 11 SIM cards, a skimming device and an innovative device, have been seized from the accused. Aurangabad commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad said, “This probably the most advanced technique of siphoning money from the ATM. Initial probe has revealed that the accused had committed similar crimes at 13 places in different states before coming to Aurangabad.” Cybercrime inspector Geeta Bagwade said a team comprising PSI Rahul Chavan and constables Mansur Shah and Sushant Shelke first received the tip-off about the movement of the accused in the city. The team soon started monitoring their activities. She said the accused, during the preliminary questioning, have revealed that using the skimmer, they would use debit cards and withdraw just Rs 500 from the targeted ATM. However, as soon as the slot for delivering the currency notes opened, they would insert the innovative device there, making the sensors defunct. “Taking advantage of the defunct sensors, the accused could put in their hand and take as much money they could without even the bank realizing it,” said inspector Bagwade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-police-nab-4-cybercriminals-from-bihar/articleshow/77173653.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 26, 2020||Vijayawada||Telugu netizens keep battle for Amaravati alive||VIJAYAWADA: Keeping up with the contigencies of the time, the Amaravati protesters are looking for ways to sustain the movement in the virtual world. Pro-Amaravati protesters have continued to post about the movement on various online platforms with the hashtag #SaveAmaravati. Twitter and Facebook are abuzz with thousands of posts with the hashtag #SaveAmaravati. The online campaign, which was started to show solidarity to Amaravati farmers, is slowly gaining in importance. Recntly, people from all over the world have begun posting on the Prime Minister’s Office’s Twitter handle about the two controversial bills proposed for trifurcation of the capital that have been sent for the governor’s assent. They have termed them unconstitutional and against the interest of the people. They have also appealed to the Prime Minister and President to intervene in the matter to save the lives of 29,000 farmers who gave away their lands for the capital city. Rajani Guduru from Mandadam, who works at a software company at Bengaluru, and had given her land for the capital, said they do not want to leave any stone unturned to save Amaravati. Speaking to TOI, Guduru said with the outbreak of Covid-19 many thought that the Amaravati movement will fizzle out. “But we are not ready to back down. We want to fight till the decision to trifurcate the capital is rolled back. Our online protests marking 200 day of the agitation received unprecedented support from all over the world. We want to continue the momentum by continuously knocking on the doors of the Union government till justice is done to the farmers” she said. One Twitter user ‘Rani Kondaveeti’ posted a picture of women holding placards which read save Amaravati. She tweeted “Amaravati is the only undisputed land acquisition project in the world history. Do not blame Amaravati”. Many people are posting similar pictures and videos along with the drafts of the two proposed bills and tagging the PMO and Rashtrapati Bhavan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/telugu-netizens-keep-battle-for-amaravati-alive/articleshow/77173682.cms||Srikanth Aluri
July 26, 2020||Dehradun||Revival of 4 water reservoirs at Kedarnath temple announced||Dehradun: Tourism minister Satpal Maharaj on Saturday announced that the rejuvenation of four water reservoirs at Kedarnath temple will start soon after the offset of monsoon. He also informed that a request has been made to the central tourism minister that the ‘Mahabharata circuit’ be put under the Pilgrimage Rejuvenation and Spiritual Augmentation Drive (PRASAD) scheme – a government of India’s scheme that focuses on identifying and developing pilgrimage sites across the country to enrich the religious tourism experience. Addressing the media, Maharaj informed that soon it will be possible to worship from the sacred Amrit Kund, which got destroyed after the 2013 tragedy and had also resulted in the loss of several lives. “The kunds at Kedarnath like Agni Kund (Amrit Kund), Hans Kund, Udta Kund, and Retas Kund have their own religious and cultural importance. They all were destroyed in the 2013 Kedarnath deluge. We had proposed the rejuvenation of these kunds earlier this year. However, Covid-19 pandemic outbreak and monsoon have halted the process. The works will resume as soon as the monsoon weakens,” the minister said. The minister also informed that the process of centralising the Institute of Hotel Management (IHM) in Dehradun is also underway. “I have also urged the Union tourism minister Prahlad Singh Patel to include the Mahabharata circuit under the Prasad scheme. This will boost tourism in the Himalayan state which has temples from Lakhamandal to Kedarnath,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/revival-of-4-water-reservoirs-at-kedarnath-temple-announced/articleshow/77173695.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 26, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Clotting, fibrosis most common post-discharge effects’||Ahmedabad: Shaunak Shah (name changed), 52, was happy when he was discharged from a city hospital after three weeks of Covid-19 treatment. However, soon after his return, he started having trouble breathing, even walking a few steps was difficult without a break. Dr Manoj Singh, a city-based pulmonologist and critical care specialist, said that several Covid-19 patients after recovery show signs of fibrosis, which causes difficulty in breathing after slight exertion. "Lung capacity is badly affected in some cases. One such patient was with us for past two months. The impact is not that great in patients who had quicker recoveries, but those who have spent considerable time being treated for Covid – meaning they had higher viral loads – have some long-term effects," he said. City-based experts are now focusing on patients who have recovered from Covid to understand the impact of the viral infection. Dr Kartikeya Parmar, assistant professor (medicine) at BJ Medical College and coordinator at the Covid-19 facility at Civil Hospital, said that for each follow-up, they take a CT scan of the patient to assess lung function. "In 5-7% of patients, we have seen slow signs of recovery. Partial fibrosis is seen even more than a month after discharge," he said. "Complications have been seen where the patients get issues such as cardiac complications or strokes due to coagulation of blood," said Maharshi Desai, city-based critical care specialist and member of the state committee on Covid-19. "But these conditions should be seen in a context – if it’s developing within 2-3 weeks of infection, it could be a continuation of the impact of Covid-19." Dr Bhavik Shah, a city-based critical care specialist, said that those with severe symptoms of fibrosis even require oxygen at home. "Regular follow-ups are necessary after the discharge for some months. The infection is new and we are yet to understand its full impact, thus, whether the patient recovers fully or partially after a few months is yet to be studied," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/clotting-fibrosis-most-common-post-discharge-effects/articleshow/77175833.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||BSF personnel dies of Covid-19||Balasore: A 30-year-old BSF personnel from Balasore’s Bajipur village in Bahanaga block has reportedly died of Covid-19 in Chhattisgarh. Constable Kailash Ghadai breathed his last on July 23 at the Dr B R Ambedkar Memorial Hospital, Raipur. He was admitted to the hospital on July 17 as he was suffering from pneumonia and respiratory distress. During treatment he was found to be Covid-19 positive. Kailash joined the BSF in 2011. After his training at Bengaluru, he was posted in different parts of the country. Currently, he was deployed at Durg in Chhattisgarh. “He was suffering from fever and experiencing acute chest pain. Later he was admitted to a BSF hospital. When his condition became critical he was shifted to Dr B R Ambedkar Memorial Hospital, Raipur. I went by hiring a car to meet him. But was not allowed. After reaching home, I got the message of his death,” said Prabhakar Ghadei, father of Kailash Kailash’s wife, who has also tested positive for Covid-19, is undergoing treatment at Shri Shankaracharya Institute of Medical Science Hospital, Bhilai, he added. “I urge the Odisha government to make arrangements to bring my daughter-in-law to Odisha from Chhattisgarh for further treatment,” he said. “It is difficult for us to hire a vehicle spending Rs 20,000 every time to go to Chhattisgarh,” he added. The jawan’s body is yet to reach his native place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bsf-personnel-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/77173714.cms||Kishan Sahu
July 26, 2020||Bhubaneswar||‘I tested positive for typhoid, then for Covid’||Bhubaneswar: A 51-year-old shop owner of Aska town in Ganjam district, who has recently returned home from a Covid care centre near Berhampur after recovering from SARS-CoV-2, recounted how he initially tested positive for typhoid. The man, who owns a medicine shop, suspects that he had contracted the virus from a customer. “I would take all precautions while running the shop and handling items. Since the second week of June, I had even started staying alone in a room in my house. On June 23, I developed a fever and got some routine tests done. My report showed that I had typhoid. I took the necessary medicines and continued to self-isolate at home,” he recalled. On June 28, he got tested for Covid as the fever had not subsided. “My report returned positive for Covid. Government officials called me on July 1 and informed me about the development, but they they did not take me to the Covid care centre. I had to call back the officials. Only then was I taken to the Covid care centre at Sitalapalli on July 2. I took all my medicines with me. I had lost my sense of smell and taste. I had a cough but had no difficulty breathing,” he added. He recalled the district administration changing the caterer at the centre after the inmates complained of the quality of food being served. “On the second day of my stay at the centre, a new caterer from Berhampur served us food. The breakfast, lunch and dinner were tasty and healthy. We were given vitamin B complex, vitamin C, E and zinc tablets. If anybody had a cough, they would get Azithromycin and Cetirizine. Paracetamol was given to patients with a fever. If anybody’s condition deteriorated, the authorities took them to a Covid hospital,” he said. Since the man had removed himself to a different room of his house even before he developed symptoms, no one from his family was infected. “After I went to the Covid care centre, my two sons and wife were in home isolation for 14 days. They were fine. I was also not unduly worried about myself as I do not have any other health complications. I returned home on July 8 and remained in isolation for another 14 days,” he added. The recovered patient urged people to follow government guidelines strictly to break the chain of virus transmission. “Many people are not obeying physical distancing norms or wearing masks. People in Aska are behaving as if nothing has happened,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/i-tested-positive-for-typhoid-then-for-covid/articleshow/77173677.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
July 26, 2020||Dehradun||Higher edu dept to upload lectures online||Dehradun: Uttarakhand's higher education department has decided to upload as much content online as possible for the convenience of students. Due to the Covid-19 scare, the classes are unlikely to start soon. Thus, the department has decided to use YouTube as a medium of sharing video lectures. The department aims to upload study content on other online platforms as well. The length of the video lectures will range from 10 minutes to an hour. Also, several colleges of Dehradun have decided to make their admission process fully online. This decision has been taken to avoid any kind of transmission of Covid-19. Meanwhile, the Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas are mulling to conduct their entrance examination in more than usual centres to avoid crowding of students. The education department claims that having more centres will reduce the risk of Covid-19 during the entrance exams which are likely to be held in August.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/higher-edu-dept-to-upload-lectures-online/articleshow/77173715.cms||Mohammad Anab
July 26, 2020||Aurangabad||Central team stresses on Covid awareness||AURANGABAD: A central government team on Saturday visited several containment zones in the city as a part of a review of the cities and districts reporting a high number of Covid-19 cases. After the field visit, the team has asked the authorities to start an awareness drive and address the fears, anxiety and panic amongst the residents, especially those residing in containment zones. The team, led by senior IAS officer Kunal Kumar, appreciated the efforts made by the authorities and issuing a list of instructions. The central team, which also had Arvind Kushwaha and Sitikanta Banerjee, held a meeting with civic body administrator Astik Kumar Pandey, city police commissioner Chiranjeev Prasad, district collector Uday Choudhary, superintendent of police Mokshada Patil, ZP CEO Mangesh Gondawala, GMCH dean Kananbala Yelikar, district civil surgeon Sundar Kulkarni and others to assess the current situation including the existing health infrastructure, manpower, available beds, ambulance service management, funds available etc. The central team instructed the authorities here to closely monitor the situation in containment zones, bridge communication gap with people residing in containment zones, ensure timely treatment to those testing positive and set a target of four weeks to control the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/central-team-stresses-on-covid-awareness/articleshow/77173668.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 26, 2020||Nashik||Railways starts parcel service||NASHIK: The central railways, for the first time, started parcel services for transportation of perishable goods to far off destinations, thus ensuring that they reach their destination in good condition. The first-of-its-kind service was launched by the Bhusawal division of central railways when onions from Lasalgaon railway station in Nashik district were exported to Darshana station in Bangladesh on July 22. The parcel train runs at an average speed of 100 to 120 kmph as against the freight train that caps its speed at 60 kmph. The period is unmatched by road in current conditions, making it the most effective mode of surface transportation. “This is the biggest advantage of the parcel train as perishable goods reach Bangladesh border in less than 36 hours as against 72 hours required by freight or goods train which is given second priority when it comes to use of railway track,” a senior railway official said. The parcel train can carry assorted vegetables through its rake rather than sticking to one kind of stuff which is the condition for the freight train that costs cheaper than the ‘parcel’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/railways-starts-parcel-service/articleshow/77173698.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 26, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Call centre to enable booking of beds||NASHIK: The civic administration is coming up with a call centre that will help patients know exactly which bed in which hospital will be allotted to them and even facilitate transportation to the hospital concerned. The NMC is likely to put the entire system in place by Tuesday. Commissioner of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) Radhakrishna Game said, “Currently, the helpline operated by NMC provides basic information related to Covid-19 and data on availability of beds in various hospitals. We will now help patients to book their beds in hospitals with just one call to the call-centre.” The call centre run by the NMC will manage five activities for the patients—controlling admission of patients in various hospitals, ambulance management, monitoring the health of high-risk contacts, providing information on Covid-19 and counselling services. Head of NMC’s IT cell Shivraj Chavanke said, “When a person who has tested positive for Covid-19 calls up the call centre to know about the availability of beds, he will not only be given the necessary information. The call centre will even book the hospital for the patient.” The patient as well as the hospital will get unique identity numbers ensuring the hospital bed is reserved for some time and not allotted to anybody else. Once the bed is occupied, the civic officials will also be track the health of the patient. The call centre will also manage ambulance services for the patients requiring pickup and drop facility to the respective hospitals. “The activities are aimed at cutting down the chances of the hospitals (if any) turning down the patients for no reason and even overcharging by the ambulances,” the official pointed out. Besides, the call centre will monitor the health and address other requirements of high-risk contacts of the patients. It will also counsel patients and their relatives as and when required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/call-centre-to-enable-booking-of-beds/articleshow/77173718.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 26, 2020||Chennai||Hotels shuts, chefs move to cloud kitchens||CHENNAI: Chefs have started moving to cloud kitchens as the outbreak of coronavirus has triggered massive layoffs in the hospitality sector. Unemployed chefs are trying to put their culinary skills to use by converting home kitchens to prepare food for masses and partnering with food aggregators for deliveries. For consumers, delicious homemade food, which is otherwise expensive in star hotels, is available at affordable prices. A restaurant with multiple branches has moved its kitchen to a home, catering for the neighbourhood since the pandemic hit its business. Ranpreet Singh, who has been working at a north Indian eatery with three branches in the city, is taking orders online within three kilometres of his kitchen on Old Mahabalipuram Road. "There is a demand for food prepared in home kitchens," said Singh, who cooks for about 300 people daily. Unlike star hotels with full-fledged kitchens, home kitchens are for a limited number of people with available ingredients. However, home cooked food has an advantage as many are still wary of eating out or takeaways. The temporary shift is to sustain their livelihood after a majority of hotels and restaurants shut due to restrictions on operations to contain the spread of coronavirus. While star hotels are allowed to accommodate only frontline workers including medicos and returnees through the Vande Bharat Mission, restaurants depend on takeaways. South India Chefs Association (SICA) estimates that about two lakh chefs and cooks comprising those working in star hotels, restaurants, catering services and unorganised eateries such as roadside eateries are residing in and around Chennai. SICA general secretary Sheetharam Prasaad said 100 to 150 chefs have turned to cloud kitchens. "It includes chefs holding senior positions in star hotels. Cloud kitchens emerged as an option because Covid-19 cost the jobs of 60% of chefs and kitchen staff, while the rest are struggling with cuts and delayed salaries," he said. An executive chef, who has set up a cloud kitchen at his residence, said that the skilled culinary workforce has been catering to customers by delivering food at their doorstep. "The chefs may not advertise their current struggle for survival because it may have an adverse impact on their career prospects when hotels reopen later," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hotels-shuts-chefs-move-to-cloud-kitchens/articleshow/77176535.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
July 26, 2020||Guwahati||Assam: 8-yr-old attending tuitions tests Covid positive in Biswanath||GUWAHATI: An eight-year-old girl, who had contracted Covid-19, was continuously attending classes at a tutorial in Biswanath district, officials said, adding that the administration and the health department are concerned about the incident. The swab sample report of the girl arrived on Friday, where she was found to be positive. When enquired, it came to light that she was attending private tuitions in the home of a lady teacher in Barua Chuk village in Sootea even after her father had tested positive a few days earlier. “We have declared the homes of the teacher, and three other students who were attending the tutorial classes with the eight year old girl as containment zones. Few days ago, the eight-year-old’s father had tested positive,” said Biswanath deputy commissioner Dhrubajyoti Das. The district officials said the condition of the girl was stable, but she has been hospitalsed. “If required, we will shift her to Tezpur Medical College Hospital,” Das added. The administration is trying to trace the details of other students, who were attending the tutorial classes imparted by the teacher in the last few days. Locals said the teacher was teaching some other batches of students as well, which has increased the chances of infection. However, it is yet to be known if the teacher was aware about the positive test result of the student’s father. Covid infection among people without travel history has been a matter of concern in Biswanath district. As uncertainty continues on resumption of regular classes in schools, many students continue to be taught in small groups. Especially in the districts and rural areas of the state, where inadequate infrastructure and poor internet connectivity have been the biggest hindrance in conducting online classes by the school teachers, most of the students are going for private tuitions. “There seems to be no alternative to home tutorials in vast parts of Assam, where online education is not feasible. The students and teachers have to be extremely cautious. The Biswanath incident was an eye opener. If anybody in their families are found Covid-19 positive, such students should not go out of their homes. It’s the duty of teachers to ensure this. Without sincerity of students and teachers, the call to encourage home tutorial by maintaining health protocols will be futile,” said Assam State Primary Teachers’ Association general secretary Ratul Chandra Goswami.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/8-yr-old-attending-tuitions-tests-positive-in-biswanath/articleshow/77173691.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Guwahati||Meghalaya count touches 646 as 59 more get infected||SHILLONG: Meghalaya on Saturday recorded 59 new cases, mostly returnees from other states, including a 3-year-old child and high risk contacts, including two staffers from quarantine centres and BSF personnel testing positive as on Saturday afternoon taking active cases up to 547. State director of health services (DHS), Dr Aman Warr said of the 59 new Covid-19 positive cases reported today, 54 (41 high risk contacts of positive patients, including 6 BSF personnel and 13 returnees) were detected in East Khasi Hills District, four persons, all high risk contacts of positive police personnel in East Jaintia Hills and one returnee from Assam tested positive in West Jaintia Hills District. “Definitely it is cause of worry, and that has led to lockdown because we have to go for massive contact tracing,” he said referring to the total lock-down that will be re-imposed from midnight on July 26 to midnight on July 29 in the entire Shillong agglomerate area. “So far it does not show anything that we should worry, because we can contact. We know, we can still account for each and every case, from where they got this. That’s why we still have strong belief that community spread has not happened as yet,” the DHS said. “But if we are not careful, if people still come out like this every day unnecessarily, strolling around in the market places, shopping centres, it will be a big worry for all of us,” the top health official cautioned, even as he informed that 7 more patients recovered from the viral infection today. On the last count so far, Ri-Bhoi District had 41 active cases, West Garo Hills 15, West Jaintia Hills 9, South West Garo Hills 4, South Garo Hills 2 and one each in East Garo Hills and North Garo Hills. The state has registered 646 Covid-19 positive cases, including 547 active, 5 deaths and 94 recoveries so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/meghalaya-count-touches-646-as-59-more-get-infected/articleshow/77173693.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Shillong||Meghalaya count touches 646 as 59 more get infected||SHILLONG: Meghalaya on Saturday recorded 59 new cases, mostly returnees from other states, including a 3-year-old child and high risk contacts, including two staffers from quarantine centres and BSF personnel testing positive as on Saturday afternoon taking active cases up to 547. State director of health services (DHS), Dr Aman Warr said of the 59 new Covid-19 positive cases reported today, 54 (41 high risk contacts of positive patients, including 6 BSF personnel and 13 returnees) were detected in East Khasi Hills District, four persons, all high risk contacts of positive police personnel in East Jaintia Hills and one returnee from Assam tested positive in West Jaintia Hills District. “Definitely it is cause of worry, and that has led to lockdown because we have to go for massive contact tracing,” he said referring to the total lock-down that will be re-imposed from midnight on July 26 to midnight on July 29 in the entire Shillong agglomerate area. “So far it does not show anything that we should worry, because we can contact. We know, we can still account for each and every case, from where they got this. That’s why we still have strong belief that community spread has not happened as yet,” the DHS said. “But if we are not careful, if people still come out like this every day unnecessarily, strolling around in the market places, shopping centres, it will be a big worry for all of us,” the top health official cautioned, even as he informed that 7 more patients recovered from the viral infection today. On the last count so far, Ri-Bhoi District had 41 active cases, West Garo Hills 15, West Jaintia Hills 9, South West Garo Hills 4, South Garo Hills 2 and one each in East Garo Hills and North Garo Hills. The state has registered 646 Covid-19 positive cases, including 547 active, 5 deaths and 94 recoveries so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shillong/meghalaya-count-touches-646-as-59-more-get-infected/articleshow/77179549.cms||---
July 26, 2020||Agartala||1 more dies of Covid in Tripura, toll rises to 11; 106 new cases reported||AGARTALA: One more person died of Covid-19 in Tripura, taking the state’s toll to 11, even as the state government on Saturday said teachers, panchayat secretaries, teshildars and staff of various departments would be engaged, along with health workers, to carry out a survey for identification of persons for rapid antigen kit test for Covid-19 from Monday. A total of 106 fresh cases were reported in the state, taking the state’s count to 3,778, a health official said on Saturday. The latest fatality was reported from Gomati district. A 70-year-old man from Gomati’s Udaipur died due to Covid-19 on Friday, the official said. The man, who was suffering from cardiac ailments and high blood pressure, was admitted to Agartala Government Medical College here on July 20 after he complained of chest pain. He tested positive for coronavirus on the same day, the official said. Chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb tweeted late on Friday, “106 people found COVID-19 positive out of 4,045 samples tested.” Meanwhile, the state government said those engaged in the Covid survey would look for influenza-like illness, symptoms of acute respiratory problems, comorbid condition and recent travel history. About 7,000 such teams were being formed comprising at least four persons, including a medical officer or postgraduate medical student who would sign the testing report instantly, while two other trained persons will collect the swabs and the fourth person in the team would upload the data on a real-time basis to ICMR. However, the government orders read, “The process of survey will be supervised by the supervising officer who could be a panchayat secretary, tehsildar, teacher or any other officer or employee found available and suitable in the area. He/she will ensure a line listing of identified patients and would submit the report in the identified centre. (They would) also coordinate with the health team for the Covid testing process.” The officials said the target is to complete the survey in a week, so that the spread of the virus could be contained faster. “Considering the geographical area and canvass of population, the experts have suggested going for an intensive house-to-house survey and the state government is bringing another consignment of rapid testing kits of about a lakh,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agartala/1-more-dies-of-covid-in-tripura-toll-rises-to-11-106-new-cases-reported/articleshow/77179351.cms||---
