July 27, 2020||India||NHAI to beautify Ayodhya bypass for pilgrims & tourists||NEW DELHI: Statues of Hanuman, tiny flower gardens and fountains at regular intervals will be part of the major beautification of Ayodhya Bypass. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has approved Rs 55 crore for beautification and civil construction works for this 16 km bypass. While civil construction to upgrade the existing bypass has started at Rs 35 crore since March this year, NHAI will open the bids for beautification work on Wednesday. “It was decided to divide two components with full government support. The progress of civil works is about 30%. The beautification work will start soon as the government is paying for it. The contractor can start work as soon it bags the project,” said an official. The works were approved after Faizabad MP, Lallu Singh put the demand before highways minister Nitin Gadkari. “The upgradation and beautification of the bypass will make the ride on this stretch fulfilling both for pilgrims who come here and for visitors as well. They will get a feel of reaching an important religious place. Several road projects have been approved and work has started around Ayodhya." The bypass provides connectivity to Prayagraj, Varanasi and other parts of the country. Singh told TOI that the Centre has provided enough funds for road development in the area, which will boost religious tourism and economic development. The roads that are being developed include the Ram-Janki Marg and 84 Koshi Parikrama Marg in this region. Officials said that plantation of exotic plants on the median will also be put as soon as cement concrete kerbs are constructed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nhai-to-beautify-ayodhya-bypass-for-pilgrims-tourists/articleshow/77187454.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 27, 2020||India||Job drought in cities brings water and taps to Rajasthan villages||When work dried up in the big cities during the lockdown, many thousands of men from Rajasthan’s Udaipur and Rajsamand districts trudged back home. Vijay Ram, a 28-year-old from Kuchauli panchayat in Rajsamand, says just thinking about the long journey gives him the shivers. He’s not going back “at least this year.” And he has a good reason to stay home now. In the two months since they returned, Vijay Ram and others like him have changed the face of their villages. There’s piped water at last, long-neglected wells have been repaired, and agriculture has become more than a means of subsistence. “Earlier, we only grew grains, but this year we have sown vegetables also.” Tourists visiting Udaipur and Rajsamand take back memories of their rugged hills but life for the locals can be hard, especially in the tribal villages where water is scarce. That’s why up to 95% of men in some blocks migrate to Mumbai or Surat for work. Read more from this seriesThe workers who returned home because of the lockdown didn’t have to worry about rent anymore, but they still had to put bread on the table. “At that time, it was hard to say what was worse, staying on in the city or returning home. We were out of work, money and hope in both places,” says 35-year-old Tola Ram from Udaipur’s Boramcha village. The returnees decided not to sit around and lament their fate. “We began with efforts to arrange food and water in the village,” says Tola Ram. In Kanela, another village in Udaipur, they turned their attention to community works. The village didn’t have a water tank, so they made many phone calls to the collector’s office and the block development officer, says Ganesh Naal Gamethi, a resident. “Our perseverance paid off when the village got its first 5,000-litre overhead tank. Then came the taps. Until recently, women fetched water from wells or used handpumps. The two taps installed in our village have made life a bit easier,” Gamethi says proudly. In other villages, the returnees are digging new wells, repairing old ones and raising crops with the new sources of water. “This is a tribal belt where families have low access to resources like drinking water, sources of irrigation, etc,” says Saloni Mundra, knowledge and programme support executive at the NGO, Aajeevika Bureau, which is supporting the projects financially. The NGO’s help and the hard work put in by the people have transformed many villages in two months. Vijay Ram says they now use a pump to irrigate their fields. He expects a surplus that can be sold in the market. Putting bread on the table does not seem so hard anymore. (This story is part of a series in association with Facebook. Facebook has no editorial role in this story.)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/job-drought-in-cities-brings-water-and-taps-to-rajasthan-villages/articleshow/77185754.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
July 27, 2020||Chennai||Here comes Sorkalam, Tamil’s answer to Scrabble||Like with most families, Scrabble is a staple board game at Chennai-based couple Santhanakrishnan R and Preetha Raghavan’s household. Over the years, their pastime has often included playing the game with their daughter. One such round of the word game, however, ended up being an epiphany for them — what if they could play the very game in Tamil? This is the story behind their recent invention, Sorkalam, a Tamil word game. “Most of us have grown up with Scrabble, among other word games. Sorkalam struck me as an interesting idea because we often tend to play a lot of English word games, but not Tamil ones,” says Santhanakrishnan, a consultant in the field of artificial intelligence and data analysis. While Santhanakrishnan came up with the idea way back in 2016, he revisited it last October, to come up with a prototype, along with his wife. “For this to work, we had to think of a few things like the number of tiles and distribution of points,” he says, adding that Thirukkural and vernacular magazines helped analyse how different word combinations worked. “We then started working on a prototype with scissors, pen, paper and small cardboard pieces. We knew we were on to something,” Preetha explains. This was followed by a lot of trial and error before they zeroed in on the final product, she says, adding that figuring out a way to blend the uyir-mei-ezhuthukal on the board was the biggest challenge. Out of the total 165 tiles, 90 are wooden ones with Tamil letters, 55 are symbols/diacritics and the rest are blank tiles, which can be played as any letter or symbol. “In industrial design, we have a concept called design thinking, which involves a lot of improvisation. We made 20 sample boards and distributed them to people whom we did not know, to get genuine feedback. It was real fun developing the game as it was playing it,” notes Santhanakrishnan. The board game would have hit select stores by now if not for the pandemic, the couple says with a grin, adding that the game is now available online. While the lockdown has prompted many to give board games a try, the gaming culture should not be restricted to today’s times, they add. “Board games are an important part of growing up for most kids, and for some, the love stays on for much of their adult life too. As for the lockdown, we wouldn't wish the game needs a crisis like the lockdown for its adoption. We wish the virus goes away, people get well, and happily play the game,” says Preetha. Mother tongue as a sense of comfortThe game inevitably lets people explore numerous Tamil words in the process, the couple adds. “In daily life, it takes time to think of Tamil words. This was the feedback we got from people who played the game. A few have even said that the game helped connect to their Tamil-speaking parents better,” Santhanakrishnan says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/here-comes-sorkalam-tamils-answer-to-scrabble/articleshow/77187987.cms||Sruthi Raman
July 27, 2020||India||On Kargil Day, PM’s tough talk on ‘dusht’ Pakistan a hint to China?||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday marked ‘Kargil Day’ by delivering his monthly radio address recalling India’s victory over Pakistan on the icy mountains 21 years ago but the messaging also appeared to be aimed at China. In his ‘Mann ki Baat’ monthly radio address, Modi recalled how the Army foiled Pakistan’s intrusion. But as he delineated the circumstances of Pakistan’s “betrayal” by attempting to stealthily grab land and to deflect attention from its internal troubles at a time when India was trying to improve relations, the similarity with China’s aggression along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) was striking, even though the PM did not mention China even once in his address. PM Modi, while quoting a Sanskrit shloka, termed Pakistan an incorrigible enemy who compulsively sought to harm everyone, even those who tried to help them, a description that seemed to apply to China as well. “To the wicked, enmity with one and all for no reason comes naturally,” he said. Read AlsoPM Modi recalls valour of soldiers in Kargil, says wars fought on borders and within country tooHailing the valour of the armed forces during the Kargil war, PM Narendra Modi on Sunday asked people to speak and act keeping in mind the morale of soldiers and asserted that wars are fought not just on borders but on many fronts within the country too. In his monthly 'Mann ki Baat' radio address,He said people with such a disposition kept thinking of harming even their wellwishers. “Such enmity will eventually prove costly for the ‘dusht’ itself, like Kargil did in the case of Pakistan,” the PM said, indicating a resolve to confront the border intrusion. Modi also made references to attacks by opponents back home as some have insisted that the government has downplayed the incursion. “At times, without paying heed to the essence, we encourage certain things on social media that are detrimental to the country. We keep forwarding things out of sheer curiosity. Despite knowing that it is wrong, we keep doing it. These days, battles are fought not just on borders, they are fought within the country too, on many fronts simultaneously,” he said. Modi quoted Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s Red Fort speech in 1999 in which he had cited Gandhi’s mantra. “Mahatma Gandhi’s mantra was — in the face of any dilemma, in order to decide what to do or what not to do, one must think of the poorest and the most helpless person of India,” the PM quoted Vajpayee as saying. “Going beyond Gandhiji’s thought, Atalji had said that the Kargil war has given us another mantra, and the mantra was — before taking any important decision, we should think whether our step, our endeavour, is befitting to the honour of the soldier who laid down his life in those remote mountains,” he added. Watch TOI Daily: PM’s tough talk on Pakistan a hint to China on Kargil Day?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/on-kargil-day-pms-tough-talk-on-dusht-pakistan-a-hint-to-china/articleshow/77188148.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Eden Gardens quarantine centre to start soon||KOLKATA: The Eden Gardens is all set to house a police quarantine centre. Barely 15 days after the idea was conceived, several cots and fans have made their way inside after the necessary permissions were fast-paced by the Army. A gap of six feet has been kept between beds and a few bio-toilets are likely to be added. The Kolkata Police headquarters are planning to shift quarantined cops to this centre as early as next week. “The Dumurjala quarantine facility has 120-odd beds for our personnel. But we want to turn this into a 200-bed facility. Small buildings are proving inadequate to function as quarantine centres for the lack of doctors. Many are being forced to stay at home. This is increasing the risk of Covid spreading among family members. We cannot afford to keep quarantined cops at the barracks or homes,” an officer said. BCCI president Sourav Ganguly had on March 25 offered the stadium’s indoor facility and the players’ dormitory to the state for use as a temporary medical centre. “We will hand over the facility if the government asks us to,” Ganguly had said. Doctors attached with major city hospitals who are members of the CAB medical committee have offered to help with the quarantine facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/eden-quarantine-centre-to-start-soon/articleshow/77187869.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 27, 2020||Business||Covid hit tourism, MSME, aviation worst: RBI survey||MUMBAI: Tourism and hospitality, construction, aviation, automobiles and MSME sectors are expected to be worst-affected by Covid-19, according to an RBI survey. The central bank conducted a systemic risk survey to capture the participants of experts on the major risks faced by the financial system, which is published in its financial stability report. The results point to the five sectors mentioned earlier, which are adversely affected by the pandemic. Incidentally, construction was doing badly even before the lockdown with over 24% of loans to this sector being classified as non-performing as on March 2020. This is second only to gems and jewellery where nearly 25% of the loans had already turned bad. Within the tourism sector, about 90% of the respondents said recovery within the sector in the next six months appear bleak. The aviation sector appears to be a close second, with about 85% categorising the future prospects as bleak. Bankers said aviation is most likely to require support as the sector is highly leveraged, has high fixed costs and is among the most affected. According to the survey, the effects of Covid are likely to remain for 3-5 years and may impact the quality of credit in the banks’ books, the general risk-taking ability of entrepreneurs, investments in capital markets and real estate, and the saving pattern of households.  In the survey, the categories that appeared in the ‘very high risk’ categories include global growth, domestic growth, fiscal deficit. This is the first time that the survey has thrown up so many ‘very high-risk’ categories, which is an indicator of the likeliness of the risk event happening. In the previous survey, no item was classified under this category. The number of ‘high risk’ items have doubled to 16. The new high-risk items include contagion risk following any other sovereign defaulting, the inability of corporates to raise foreign borrowings, risk that foreign portfolio investment and foreign direct investment may flatten. The domestic risks that are categorized as very high include slowing down of infrastructure spending, real estate price crash, rupee volatility, stock market volatility, liquidity risk and social unrest arising out of increasing inequality. In the financial sector, the existing stock of non-performing assets in the banking system and bankers’ risk aversion remain big worries and impediments to economic growth. About 56% of the respondents opined that the prospects of Indian banking sector are going to deteriorate considerably in the next one year, as earnings of the banking industry may be negatively impacted due to slow recovery after the lockdown, lower net interest margins, elevated asset quality concerns and a possible increase in provisioning requirements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/covid-hit-tourism-msme-aviation-worst-rbi-survey/articleshow/77188304.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Business||Viral Acharya warns against monetisation of deficit||MUMBAI: Former RBI deputy governor Viral Acharya has cautioned against monetisation of the fiscal deficit, warning that it could trigger run-away inflation and external sector stress. Acharya’s warning comes at a time when there is a growing chorus for the government to provide an economic stimulus by borrowing money directly from the RBI. Acharya’s criticism of deficit monetisation is part of his book ‘Quest for restoring financial stability in India’ (published by Sage). “Monetisation of fiscal deficits by the central bank participating directly in the primary market for government debt or indirectly in the secondary market through its liquidity management operations would mean regressing to errors of the 1970s and the 1980s,” said Acharya. “The constant refrain that given the lack of fiscal space, the central bank must accommodate that growth is a slippery slope,” Acharya said. According to Acharya, for a sustained recovery, there is a need to clean up the financial system. “The historical strategy of levering up yet another asset class to grow when prior leverage boom has gone bust and its mess not yet cleaned up has repeatedly failed, this strategy has repeatedly derailed the Indian economy’s long-term growth plans, unsurprisingly there is no asset class left to lever up and structural reforms are now critical,” he wrote. In the book, Acharya has blamed the NBFC/real estate defaults to the glut of deposits that ended up with public sector banks following demonetisation. “Bank deposit rates fell and savers searched for yield through liquid-debt mutual funds; these funds in turn sought a higher yield in the short-term commercial paper of non-bank and housing finance companies,” Acharya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/acharya-warns-against-monetisation-of-deficit/articleshow/77188300.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Patna||Covid-19 in Bihar: Over 80% of dental clinics closed||PATNA: As Covid-19 continues wreaking havoc in the state, over 80% of the private dental and maxillofacial surgery clinics have been closed. In Patna alone, hardly 50 such clinics function for limited hours in urban areas and charge enhanced consultation fee. The situation in rural areas is worse as most dentists have shut their clinics. Indian Dental Association-Bihar president Dr Mohit Kumar told this newspaper that nearly 15 dentists, mostly from Muzaffarpur, had tested positive for coronavirus. “Majority of the dentists in small towns and rural areas have pointed out that practices like thermal screening, pulse measurement, sanitization and fumigation as well as the use of PPE kits, masks and gloves will prove to be an additional burden that they cannot afford. Hence, the cost of consultation and treatment has been raised,” Dr Mohit said. Dr Kundan Singh, a periodontist with a clinic in Buddha Colony, claimed that many specialists had switched to the old hand-driven instruments for scaling and filling of teeth in order to minimize the emission of aerosol through a patient’s mouth and nose. The 35-odd dental clinics in the area between Jagdeopath and Saguna Mor in Patna are all closed. Dr Vaibhav Shandilya, a maxillofacial surgeon, said, “Under the new normal, most of us are depending on telemedicine. Surgeries related to accidents, cancer or tumour, on the other hand, have been delayed.” At his New Dak Bungalow clinic, orthodontist Dr Neal Kedia has doubled the fee for dental treatment. “I have to make sure that there are disposable PPE kits and masks for the patients and the clinic is sanitized regularly,” he said. A Muzaffarpur-based dentist, Dr Harsh Singh, claimed that only 30 of the 150 clinics in the town were open for limited hours. Similarly in Gaya, almost 65 of the 70 dentists have shut their clinics. “These include those falling under the containment zones with larger number of corona patients,” Dr Sakeb Khan Afridi said. Dr Vivek Vikas of Purnea also pointed out that there were 100 dental clinics, of which only 30 were functioning. The consultation charges had also been raised. In Gopalganj, only five clinics were open and the remaining 20 had been closed. A dentist, Dr Nishikant Shukla, said, “Both patients as well as doctors are maintaining distance from each other.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/over-80-of-dental-clinics-closed/articleshow/77186579.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Business||RIL inches closer to buying Future Group’s retail biz||NEW DELHI/MUMBAI: Reliance Industries (RIL) is in late-stage talks to acquire the retail business of Future Group as it moves to bolster its brick-and-mortar play in Asia’s third-largest economy. The two have ironed out their differences over certain terms and conditions and a deal will be announced soon, said people familiar with the negotiations. Future’s interests are spread across various entities, including six listed companies. RIL will acquire the retail, supply-chain and related businesses of Future, which will mark the end of founder Kishore Biyani’s play in India’s modern retail, an industry he pioneered. A point under discussion has been Biyani’s role after the deal. One of the people quoted earlier pointed out that companies in which RIL acquires a minority stake, the founder-promoters continue to manage the show, with the energy-to-telecom enterprise occupying board seats, and not otherwise. A second person said that the deal has taken time due to disagreements over the valuation of Future Retail, the flagship of Biyani’s enterprise. Future Retail, meantime, is facing increased liquidity pressure after it missed interest payments on its US dollar-denominated bonds last week. Subsequently, Fitch cut its credit ratings on the company. Promoters own 42% in Future Retail, which runs hypermarket chain Big Bazaar and neighbourhood grocery chain Easyday Club, but 75% of the holding is pledged as on June 30, 2020. “The board members of Future have finally agreed with the final contours of the deal that was being worked out among the parties. A resolution will be passed over the next few days,” said a person familiar with the development. Biyani is likely to retain the FMCG and residual businesses of Future, the person added. The deal will be financed through a mix of share-swap and cash. Emailed queries sent to RIL and Future didn’t elicit any response till the time of going to press. India’s No. 2 retailer by turnover, Future has been compelled to look for an acquirer after rising debt, falling valuation of its listed entities and a decline earnings due to the pandemic, started to weigh on it. The market value of its listed companies plummeted 74% to Rs 10,464 crore in one year and its debt has exceeded Rs 12,000 crore. The potential deal underlines RIL’s ambitions to dominate the Indian retail sector as it combines the online and offline formats. Once the transaction with Future is concluded, RIL will bring in global partners and investors in Reliance Retail, which, according to Morgan Stanley, is worth $29 billion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ril-inches-closer-to-buying-future-groups-retail-biz/articleshow/77188316.cms||John Sarkar
July 27, 2020||Patna||AIIMS-Delhi experts impart training to Bhojpur doctors||ARA: Senior doctors of AIIMS-New Delhi imparted training through a videoconference to the Bhojpur government doctors for Covid-19 treatment on Saturday. Associate professor, department of medicine, AIIMS-New Delhi, Dr Neeraj Nishchal and other senior doctors imparted training to Bhojpur civil surgeon L P Jha and other government doctors of the sadar hospital, who have been assigned the job of treating Covid-19 positive patients. Bhojpur DPRO incharge Rashmi Choudhary said the AIIMS-Delhi doctors explained the different parameters of treating mild, moderate and severe symptoms of the Covid-19 positive patients. The Bhojpur doctors were also told about bio-medical waste management for disposing of materials used by the Covid-19 positive patients. Dr Nishchal and other doctors of AIIMS-Delhi explained how the doctors, the ANMs and other paramedical staff can keep themselves safe by wearing PPE kits while treating Covid patients. Ara MP and Union minister R K Singh had held a videoconference with the Bhojpur DM, civil surgeon and other health officials of the district on July 24 regarding measures being taken to contain spread of the virus. During interactions, he observed that the doctors who have been assigned the job of treating the Covid patients need proper training. The minister then advised the doctors to attend an orientation programme with the AIIMS-New Delhi doctors. It was at the initiative of the minister that the Bhojpur doctors attended the orientation session on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/aiims-delhi-experts-impart-training-to-bhojpur-doctors/articleshow/77186746.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Patna||13% of TMBU research theses rejected on ground of plagiarism||BHAGALPUR: Nearly 13% of theses submitted for PhD by research scholars were found to have been plagiarized and were rejected by the Tilkamanjhi Bhagalpur University (TMBU). As of now 39 research theses, which includes 23 of social sciences, 07 in humanities and 09 in science were found to have more than 35% of plagiarized content out of nearly 300 theses submitted since July 2018, when TMBU implemented steps to stop plagiarism for doctorate and other related degrees. Prof Equbal Ahmad, professor in-charge of university central library (UCC) and Anti-Plagiarism Centre (APC) confirmed that 39 PhD thesis were found having more than 35% of plagiarized content and have been rejected and the research scholars have been asked to make requisite changes. The research board of TMBU, after a thorough discussion on the UGC rules, ratified and made an overall cap below 35% in making references of other published thesis or contents in any new research thesis. “If the new research thesis is found to have more than 35% of plagiarized content, the research paper is rejected,” said TMBU officials. It may be worth mentioning that the University Grants Commission (UGC) had formed rules regarding anti-plagiarism stating therein that researchers who are guilty of plagiarism could lose their registration and the researchers’ guides stripped from their jobs. “The UCC at TMBU has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Information of Library Content (INFLIBNET) to stop plagiarism,” said Prof Ahmad adding with the help of ‘URKUND’ software provided by the INFLIBNET (Inter-University Centre of UGC at Gandhinagar, Gujrat), detection of plagiarism was possible. Prof. Ahmad said URKUND is a fully-automatic machine learning text-recognition system made for detecting, preventing and handling plagiarism in all languages. Soft copies in the form of CDs of the thesis needs to be uploaded online for checking plagiarism through URKUND. “Research scholars, who want to pursue PhD and other similar degrees have to take ‘No Objection Certificate’ (NOC) from the APC,” added Prof Ahmad. TMBU VC (in-charge) Dr Ajoy Kumar Singh said the objective to enforce anti-plagiarism is to improve the quality of education and research in the universities and institutes of higher learning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/13-of-tmbu-research-theses-rejected-on-ground-of-plagiarism/articleshow/77186761.cms||Kumar Rajesh
July 27, 2020||Patna||Kargil Vijay Diwas celebrated at BRC||PATNA: The Kargil Vijay Diwas was celebrated without much fanfare amid Covid-19 pandemic at Bihar Regimental Centre at Danapur on Sunday. A wreath-laying ceremony was organised at Veer Smriti where martyrs of the Kargil War were paid tributes by army officers of the BRC, JCOs and others. A junior commissioned officer of 16 Bihar Regiment also laid wreath to remember those martyred in clash with China’s PLA troops at Galwan valley in Ladakh on June 15. BRC officiating commandant Colonel Vineet Lohia, Lieutenant Colonel Sunil Kumar and Major Vaibhav Aggarwal were among the BRC officers present on the occasion. Officers from Jharkhand and Bihar sub-area of Indian Army were also present at Veer Smriti. The Army personnel kept a two-minute silence to pay homage to those who attained martyrdom in the Kargil War 21 years ago. This is for the first time that no civilian, ex-servicemen or their family members could attend the ceremony at BRC due to Covid-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, the day was also celebrated at Patna frontier headquarters of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) at Karpuri Thakur Sadan in Patna. Frontier IG Sanjay Kumar laid wreath and paid homage to the martyrs. Kumar and DIG Sudhir Verma also paid rich tributes to SSB assistant commandant Kishore Kunal, who sacrificed his life in an encounter with NDFB terrorists at Bongaigaon in Assam on July 26, 2010. Kunal’s parents and other family members were present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kargil-vijay-diwas-celebrated-at-brc/articleshow/77186736.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 27, 2020||Kolkata||No help around, man dies near ambulance||Kolkata: A 64-year-old man who was admitted to Bongaon subdivisional hospital with breathing trouble died on Saturday night while getting into an ambulance to shift to a Kolkata hospital. Nobody came forward to help fearing he had Covid and, after he died, the body was left unattended for several hours. When he was referred to the city hospital, Madhab Narayan Dutta’s wife Alpana managed to help him down from the second floor of the Bongaon hospital and walked him to a waiting ambulance. However, he collapsed while getting into the vehicle. The incident prompted Bongaon Jiban Ratan Dhar subdivisional hospital authorities to initiate an inquiry into the alleged negligence of hospital staff. “My husband suddenly collapsed, got injured and fell unconscious. I raised an alarm but nobody came to attend to him. Later, a doctor came and told me that my husband had died,” Alpana said. Alpana’s brother Joydeb said, “His body was lying unattended for hours on the premises.” Later, a civic team from Bongaon municipality took the body to a crematorium. Shankar Kumar Mahato, superintendent of Bongaon hospital said, “We have received a complaint and are looking into the matter seriously. If some hospital staffers are found guilty of negligence, stern action will be taken against them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-help-around-man-dies-near-ambulance/articleshow/77187857.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
July 27, 2020||Patna||Proposed isolation centre for doctors hits a roadblock||GAYA: The proposed isolation centre exclusively for doctors in the IMA Bhavan, has hit a road block as paramedics are not available to help manage the centre. According to Gaya IMA President Dr Ram Sewak Prasad Singh, though several IMA members have volunteered to run the centre for doctors, paramedical staff is not available. “The proposal virtually stands shelved,” said the IMA chief. Meanwhile, as per stories doing the rounds, the compounder of a Covid positive Gaya doctor refused to administer injection to his boss. More than a dozen of Gaya doctors have so far tested positive. Dr Ashwini Nanadkuliar, a private medical practitioner of the town was the first in the state to die of Covid-19. Two more doctors have been referred to AIIMS, Patna. The offer officially made to the NGOs to come forward and run isolation centres too has not found any takers. According to Suresh Kumar, executive director of Centre Direct, a Patna-based NGO that has been active in Gaya as well, the NGOs do not have the skilled manpower required to run specialist facilities like isolation centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/proposed-isolation-centre-for-doctors-hits-a-roadblock/articleshow/77186675.cms||Abdul Qadir
July 27, 2020||Patna||Covid claims lives of two more cops||PATNA: A 2009-batch police sub-inspector (SI), who was tested positive for Covid-19 ten days back, died at Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College and Hospital (ANMMCH) in Gaya on Sunday. The SI was identified as Gajendra Singh (38). He was posted at Town police station of Jehanabad district. The dead cop was a resident of Shivbhajan Bigha in Aurangabad. “Gajendra was admitted to ANMMCH for treatment. We received information about his death on Sunday,” Jehanabad SP Maneesh said Meanwhile, an assistant sub-inspector, B K Tiwary (55), who was posted at Amarpur police station in Banka district, was tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday after his death. The ASI, a native of Deoria in Uttar Pradesh, had died in his official quarter at Amarpur around 4pm on Saturday. SHO of Amarpur police station Kumar Sunny said they had rushed Tiwary to a referral hospital at Amarpur where doctors declared him brought dead. “His wife called us around 4pm to say that he was not responding,” the SHO said, adding the ASI was suffering from severe cough and other ailments. “A sub-inspector and three constables at Amarpur police station were also tested Covid-19 positive on Sunday,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-claims-lives-of-two-more-cops/articleshow/77186594.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 27, 2020||Kolkata||PWD-run auditorium to turn safe home||Kolkata: Uttirna, the state PWD-run auditorium in Alipore, is set to become a safe house. After chief minister Mamata Banerjee asked state urban development minister Firhad Hakim to explore the opportunity of turning the signature auditorium into a safe home for Covid patients, Hakim, on Sunday, visited the site and took stock of the facilities there. According to sources, the safe house may become a 500-bed facility. “There is a lot of space inside the complex,” a PWD official said. Hakim, also the chairman of the board of administrators in the KMC, recently visited a number of state- and private-owned properties to see if they could be converted into safe houses. State home secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay, who is a nodal officer for overseeing anti-Covid operations, had asked KMC to look for safe houses. The buildings likely to become safe houses include Geetanjali stadium, Santoshpur stadium and a high-rise off EM Bypass. “We are searching for more such safe houses for elderly citizens who are Covid-suspects but can’t get home quarantined for want of space,” said a KMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pwd-run-auditorium-to-turn-safe-home/articleshow/77187864.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Patna||Job insecurity takes toll on many professionals||PATNA: As work from home has become the new normal amid Covid-19 pandemic, several working professionals are going through insomnia, restlessness, anxiety, boredom and backaches. Several private offices have not opened since nationwide lockdown was announced in the last week of March. Roshni Gupta, who works for a US- based educational firm, said she spent most days sitting in front of computer or on her cellphone. “The workload has increased due to several challenges we face like disturbance at home and poor connectivity. There is no fixed working time,” she said. Vikash Kumar, a resident of Bhootnath Road and employee of an automobile company, said job insecurity was very difficult to deal with. “The company has already reduced our salary by 30% and fired some employees,” he said. Like Vikash, Neeraj Sinha also complained of frustration, anxiety and restlessness. “I started losing sleep mainly due to office messages which pop up on my cellphone throughout the day. The restlessness is taking toll on my work performance,” he said. Shweta Singh, who works for a development agency, said, “I always run out of creative ideas due to lack of proper working environment. The virtual work culture is not an easy task.” City-based psychologist Dr Binda Singh said job insecurity, work pressure, rising cases of coronavirus and conflicts in the family often put working professionals under stress, leading to psychosomatic disorders like abdominal pain, headache, constipation and nausea. “Such cases have increased manifold as people are more frustrated due to negative thoughts, which harm them physically and emotionally. Because of high stress level, people often show their anger to family members,” she said. Stressing on the need to remain calm during the pandemic, Dr Binda said the acceptance of the circumstance was the only option. “It is the time when people need to remain calm and create positive environment at home through time management, proper diet, adequate sleep, exercise, deep breathing and music,” she said Many who have lost job are going for counselling. “It is difficult to find a new job under the present circumstances. I have started taking online counselling classes after returning from Noida,” said a resident of Danapur, who recently lost his job.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/job-insecurity-takes-toll-on-many-professionals/articleshow/77186545.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 27, 2020||Varanasi||Admin cracks whip on officials,alters strategy to combat Covid||Varanasi: Facing intense pressure due to the sharp rise in Covid-19 cases in Varanasi in past one week, officials intensified the process of streamlining arrangements to combat the crisis. Senior officials are rethinking strategies for combating the pandemic while they also initiated strict action against those found lax in their work. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal convened a meeting of all senior officials of district administration, police, health and other department on Friday evening. Implementing strict norms, Agrawal fixed the time limit for hospitalisation of those testing positive as well as for deciding whether they can be put in home isolation. Taking serious note of laxities, Agrawal directed the CMO and his team to stay at Covid-19 integrated control command centre and decide whether a patient has to be hospitalised or stay in home isolation within 24 hours after arrival of report. He asked directed them to keep ready ambulances to ferry patients to health facilities if they require hospitalisation. In past five days, around Covid-19 cases are being detected per day while complaints have been pouring about delay in hospitalisation of patients after arrival of lab report and improper arrangements at L-1 and L-2 hospitals. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma also sought explanation from additional CMO Dr S S Kanojia for laxities in Integrated Data Surveillance Project (IDSP) as well as other officials of health and regional transport departments. All government and private laboratories have been asked to record proper details of persons giving samples for ease in contacting them on arrival of their report. Health officials were asked to coordinate with Varanasi Municipal Corporation’s Bhelupur zonal officer for cremation of bodies as per Covid protocol. He also ordered 100% sampling of people found having cold, cough and breathing problem during screening drive between July 5 and 15. All primary and community health centre in-charges will be nodal officers for Covid-19 related work at their centres. The DM said minimum 70 samples should be collected at urban and 100 samples in rural centre per day. If any centre shows zero sample, the day’s salary of its in-charge will be deducted, he added. ReplyReply allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/admin-cracks-whip-on-officialsalters-strategy-to-combat-covid/articleshow/77174981.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Business||Discounts, offers by 2-wheeler companies make a disappearing act this monsoon||Chennai: Discounts and incentive schemes have disappeared from the motorcycle and scooter market even though July-August monsoon months — Shradh or Aadi — are the weakest marketing periods for two wheeler sales. Under a normal circumstances, company and dealer schemes as well as discounts during this season leading up to Shradh in the north vary from around 7%-10% of vehicle price. But this year, lockdown losses and a demand that’s higher than supply have meant neither companies nor dealerships are offering any discount. “Right now no company or dealership is offering any discounts or benefits except may be in some niche geographies,” said Nikunj Sanghi who runs Hero Motocorp dealership JS Fourwheel Motors in Alwar. Normally, Q2 is the weakest quarter for two wheeler sales due to the monsoon and shradh and companies use this time to build inventory for the festive season. “That’s why discount/benefit offers ranging between Rs 1,500-Rs 3,000 is normal during this monsoon season,” added Sanghi. This year however the discounts have vanished. Several reasons have contributed to this. “Because of BS6 transition inventory pipelines were empty when the lockdown happened,” said Sanghi. “Now two wheeler companies are taking time to ramp up production and the supply constraint is a bigger challenge than demand which is boosted both by rural pull and the pent-up demand.” Also dealers have suffered heavy losses during the 45-60 day zero sales period so “they cannot afford to pay any discounts,” he said.Financiers say so far June-July hasn’t been a washout. “June sales of two wheelers were good and loan disbursements were also good. I am told July isn’t as good as June,” said YS Chakravarthy, MD, Shriram City Union Finance, India’s largest two wheeler financier by volume. Dealers however say the percentage of financed vehicles and the percentage of financing have both fallen with banks and NBFCs turning cautious. “Earlier 90% of on-road price could be financed but now it is 75% and financiers are also cautious so the cash sales have been going up particularly in semi urban and rural markets,” said a FADA official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/discounts-offers-by-2-wheeler-companies-make-a-disappearing-act-this-monsoon/articleshow/77187546.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Kanpur||Kunwar Pal Banjara, accused in Rewa royal museum robbery, arrested||Kanpur: The Kannauj police on Sundy arrested a wanted dacoit who had jumped bail two years ago in a case of huge robbery at the royal museum in Rewa, Madhya Pradesh in 2012, in which he and his 20 aides had taken away antiques and jewellery worth Rs 50 crore. The accused identified as Kunwar Pal Banjara, resident of Ram Nagar under Thatia police station of Kannauj, was arrested in the small hours of Sunday, said Kannauj SP Amrendra Prasad Singh. Banjara had allegedly murdered a security guard of the Rewa royal museum in 2012, and was arrested five years later in 2017. He was then released on bail in 2018, but he jumped the bail. “He kept shifting his location to evade arrest. The court had then issued a non-bailable warrant against him and he was declared a ‘proclaimed offender’,” said the SP. As per police, they had received a tip-off about his arrival in Kannauj. They kept track of Banjara and arrested him on late Saturday night. Police said Banjara, against whom 27 criminal cases remain pending, is also in the list of top ten criminals of the district. The robbery at the royal museum had occurred on October 18, 2012. Banjara and his gang had targeted the museum in Rewa fort after killing the guard Kamla Prasad, and had escaped with several antiques. SP Kannauj said the antiques dated back to 500 years. “Banjara and his aides had decamped with a pen pistol of year 1911 which was purchased by Raja Gulab Singh, a 40 kg silver chattri (umbrella), six antique swords, a silver ornamented hukkah, ornamental dresses and fabrics used to deck up elephants on special occasions, two antique pistols, silver and gold wedding dresses, one gold and three silver lamps,” said police. A country-made pistol of .315 bore and several live catridges were seized from his possession on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kunwar-pal-banjara-accused-in-rewa-royal-museum-robbery-arrested/articleshow/77187893.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Patna||Youth lynched on theft suspicion in Jehanabad||PATNA: A 24-year-old youth, Lalbabu Yadav, was lynched by a mob on suspicion of being a thief at Chunukpur village under the Ghosi police station area in Jehanabad district late on Saturday night, leading to tension between two groups of people on Sunday. Jehanabad SP Manish said a police team led by deputy superintendent of police Ashok Kumar Pandey has been deployed at the village to avoid any untoward incident. A case under Section 302 (murder) has been lodged against the owner of the house and a few others on the statement of the deceased’s kin. The incident took place around 11pm on Saturday when Lalbabu allegedly barged into the house of Sudama Kewat at the village. Sudama along with others brutally assaulted the youth on the suspicion of being a thief, causing grievous injuries to him. Police rushed to the village and rescued the victim from the mob fury. He was admitted to the primary health centre at Ghosi from where he was later referred to the sadar hospital at Jehanabad, where he succumbed to his injuries on Sunday. SHO of Ghosi police station Dheeraj Kumar said the victim’s father, Kaushalendra Prasad, told police that his son was mentally challenged. “Yet, Kewat and his associates held him captive and thrashed him,” the SHO quoted the Kaushalendra as saying. The SHO said Lalu was earlier sent to jail in a theft case lodged with the Kako police station in the district. “Two separate FIRs have been lodged in connection with the incident. While the first FIR is related to attempted theft in the house of Kewat, the second FIR deals with brutal assault on the youth, leading to his death,” he added. The SP said it was being ascertained whether the deceased was undergoing treatment for his ailment or not. “I have asked the SHO to probe the case from all angles,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/youth-lynched-on-theft-suspicion-in-jehanabad/articleshow/77186709.cms||Ramashankar
July 27, 2020||Patna||MU to introduce PG course in IT: VC||GAYA: Magadh University Bodh Gaya will soon introduce postgraduate course in information technology (IT). According to VC Prof Rajendra Prasad, the course will be introduced from the academic session 2020-21 itself. The two years masters course, under the choice-based credit system will have four semesters. “To begin with, the annual intake has been fixed at 60,” said the VC. Asked whether the course will be also introduced in colleges imparting PG education, the VC said teaching in information technology will be conducted only at the headquarters-based PG centre. Before any expansionary move, it is essential to have quality education at one centre in the field of IT. “The course will go a long way in improving the university’s academic profile,” said Prof Rajendra Prasad. Asked about the proposed course in defence studies, the VC said the Raj Bhavan is yet to give the go ahead signal. Without the Raj Bhavan’s approval, the new course cannot be introduced. The Chancellor’s office earlier cleared the proposal for introduction of PG teaching in information technology. Regarding conducting of pending university exams, the VC said, “A decision will be taken at the end of the ongoing lockdown. The lockdown is scheduled to end on July 31. The university office remains closed during the lockdown period and the employees have been directed to remain present at the headquarters for short notice summons.” Earlier, the university had postponed the PG and UG exams scheduled to begin on July 3 and 16 respectively. Asked whether the exams will be held in the conventional pen-paper mode, the VC said that innovative methods of assessment are required to regularise the academic calendar of the university and clear the exam backlog. The academic calendar cannot be easily regularised in the pen-paper mode exam. “My first priority is to bring the academic calendar back on the rails and clear the exam back log,” the VC added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mu-to-introduce-pg-course-in-it-vc/articleshow/77186824.cms||Abdul Qadir
July 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: NGO collects Rs 45 lakh on pretext of treatment, representative booked||HYDERABAD: Three separate cases have been filed against members of an unregistered NGO Hyderabad Youth Courage (HYC) at different police stations in Hyderabad for allegedly duping people by collecting over Rs 45 lakh on the pretext of providing treatment to a woman and a child suffering from serious ailments. However, no arrests have been made so far. On Saturday night, Chandrayangutta, Humayun Nagar and Nampally police registered three separate cases against NGO Hyderabad Youth Courage (HYC) organiser Salman Khan and his associates based on complaints received from different people, alleging that he had collected money through crowd-funding for the treatment of housewife Yasmeen Sultana of Phool Bagh by posting her bedridden video along with four daughters on Facebook. In the Facebook video, Salman appealed to people to deposit money in the bank account of one Asra Begum and also send it to particular phone numbers via e-wallets. The crowd funding, which started on July 16 ended on July 22, after the death of Yasmeen while undergoing treatment for brain-related problem at a hospital in Chaderghat, Chandrayangutta sub-insepector (SI) Goverdhan Reddy said. One of the complainants, Mohammed Imran, 28, a businessman, approached the Chandrayangutta police alleging that after watching the video uploaded by Salman, he transferred Rs 59,700 to Asra’s bank account. “After transferring the money, I tried to contact the woman’s family on the two phone numbers available on the video. But I could not connect. Suspecting foul play, I verified the transactions of Asra’s bank account and found out that nearly Rs 15 lakh was transferred from that account to Salman’s and Ahmed Mohiuddin Rashed’s bank accounts,” the complainant alleged. Two other cases were registered against Salman and Ayub, vice-president of the NGO, at Nampally and Humayun Nagar based on the complaints of Abdul Rehman and Md Mustafa Shareef, who said that they gave Rs 50,000 and Rs 30,000 cash to Salman and his associates on July 19 and July 20 for the treatment of an infant after watching a Facebook post put up on HYC page.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ngo-collects-rs-45l-on-pretext-of-treatment-reps-booked/articleshow/77187421.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Patna||IMA urges Nitish Kumar to shift health secretary and 2 DMs||PATNA: The state unit of Indian Medical Association (IMA) has urged chief minister Nitish Kumar and health minister Mangal Pandey to replace principal secretary of health department Uday Singh Kumawat by his predecessor Sanjay Kumar. Also, it demanded immediate transfer of the DMs of Bhojpur and Gopalganj allegedly for their anti-doctor approach. IMA (Bihar) secretary Dr Sunil Kumar on Sunday said the medical fraternity of the state was anguished over certain decisions taken by Kumawat. He alleged that Kumawat’s apathetic approach was discouraging to doctors who were fighting against the Covid 19 pandemic with utmost dedication and even falling sick due to it. Dr Sunil said a delegation of doctors comprising IMA state president Dr Bimal Kumar Karak, president-elect Dr Amar Kant Jha Amar and former president Dr Sahjanand met the health minister on Friday and submitted a letter in this regard. The letter addressed to the chief minister was sent to his office with a copy to the chief secretary as well. The IMA, in its letter, said some unnecessary actions taken by the DMs of Bhojpur and Gopalganj led to frustration and discouragement among the doctors, who were fighting the pandemic with all sincerity in the two districts. Dr Amar told this newspaper that the delegation, in its meeting with health minister, urged him to expedite the process of posting of 1,100 doctors appointed recently in all medical colleges and district hospitals. The IMA also demanded immediate appointment of general doctors against the existing 4,000 vacancies. Amar said the minister assured the delegation to act positively and expeditiously so as to further strengthen the medical force in this trying times of Covid 19 pandemic. The IMA also urged the state government to reserve 25% beds in corona-dedicated hospitals for treatment of doctors getting infected. It said similar provisions have already been made for officers of the administrative and police services. Dr Amar said another important decision taken by the IMA was to offer free consultation by its members across the state to plasma donors and their family members for one year in order to motivate others for this noble cause. Plasma donation would help save many lives, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ima-urges-cm-to-shift-health-secretary-and-2-dms/articleshow/77186564.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Patna||Floods hit rail, road traffic in many north Bihar districts||MOTIHARI/SAMASTIPUR/BAGAHA: The flood situation in north Bihar remained grim on Sunday. Rivers Gandak, Burhi Gandak and half a dozen hilly rivers inundated more than 130 villages and affected over 2,72,000 population in East Champaran. Floodwaters entered the low-lying areas of Kumaridewi, Hanumangarhi, Kolhuarawa, Agarwa, Chanmari, Bazar Samiti, Raza Bazar, Bariarpur Khusabunagar, Mathiya Zirat and Belbanwa in Motihari town after Raxaul and Sugauli in the district. Traffic on Dumariya NH28 remained disrupted on the second day as the approach slab of the bridge was being repaired. The embankment of Gandak river breached at Bhawanipur was being repaired. Train services were stopped on Muzaffarpur-Narkatiyaganj section as floodwaters were flowing over rail bridge 248 between Sagauli and Majhauliya stations. Station superintendent of Sagauli, Deelip Kumar, said floodwaters were flowing on Sagauli rail tracks. The surging water also topped NH28A (Piprakothi-Raxaul road) at Bangara near Chhapawa and Ramgarhwa. Although traffic has not disrupted till now. DM Shirshat Kapil Ashok visited Bangara and asked the engineers to be vigilant. According to police sources, a loaded pickup washed away in the water current on Lakhaura-Motihari road on Sunday, but the driver was rescued by the locals. The Burhi Gandak water entered the Neem Gali Ghat area in Samastipur town. The routes of 12 trains, including Jayanagar-Amritsar, Darbhanga-New Delhi, Darbhanga-Mumbai and New Delhi-Darbhanga were diverted from Darbhanga to Muzaffarpur via Sitamarhi. The Bagmati water entered Namapur, Kalaujar, Belsandi, Terra, Kurhba, Barheta, Kharsand paschmi panchayats. Thousands of people have taken shelter on upper areas. The Sitamarhi-Sursand, Sitamarhi-Parihar, Sitamarhi-Sheohar, Lagma-Bhasepur and Singrahia-Baduri road connectivity remained snapped. Sonbarsa block headquarters was partially inundated by river Jhim whereas Rato river was posing danger at Bittha Mor on India-Nepal border. River Lakhandei marooned several localities in Sitamarhi town. Sitamarhi DM Abhilasha Kumari Sharma said there was no scarcity of essential commodities in the district. Sadar SDO Kumar Gaurav and SDPO Kumar Veer Dhirendra got the flood-affected people shifted from NH77 near Runnisaidpur to several school buildings. But Sursand, Parihar, Dumra, Bajpatti, Choraut, Bokhara, Suppi, Riga, Belsand, Runnisaidpur, Bairgania and Bathanaha blocks were reeling from flood. Three community kitchens were being run in Sonbarsa and Parihar blocks. Although Gandak river started receding at Valmikinagar, many villages of Jaralpur and Khutawani panchayats under Jogapatti block were under 1 to 3 feet water. Six wards of Sheorajpur Chharki panchayat, Mangalpur Kala, Bisambhar Pur of Bhawanipur panchayat were badly affected. A dozen panchayats of Majhaulia block in West Champaran were badly hit by the floods. Mahanawa-Rampurwa panchayat mukhiya Adalat Ali said people could not carry ailing persons and pregnant women to hospital without boat. Road communication between Lauria and Ramnagar and Lauria and Narakatiyaganj remained disrupted. However, traffic on Ramnagar-Gobarahiya Don and Banakatawa Karamahiya panchayats was restored as villagers made a wooden bridge on the river near Champapur, said mukhiya Gaurishankar Prasad. In Khagaria, Kosi, Bagmati and Ganga river waters entered 27 panchayats, affecting 70,630 population of the area. Fresh areas of Paura and Baltara panchayats were inundated. People of Longa village in Baltars panchayat were taking shelter on the embankment. Rohiyar, Sarsawa, Buchha, Thutthi and Mohanpur panchayats were badly affected. DM Alok Ranjan Ghosh said the vulnerable points on the embankments where seepage had started were repaired. He, however, alerted the people in view of the rising trend of Ganga river. Meanwhile, the Air Force chopper airdropped dry ration packets among flood-affected people of Hasanchak and Chamanpur villages under Singhwara block in Darbhanga district. Earlier, food packets were dropped in Kusheshwar Asthan east and Keoti blocks on Saturday. Altogether 34 community kitchens were functional in Bahadurpur block as 131 panchayats under 12 blocks of the district were flood-hit. NDRF team is engaged in relief and rescue operations as 272 boats were being run in the affected areas. (With inputs from N P Thakur in Khagaria and B K Jha in Darbhanga)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/floods-hit-rail-road-traffic-in-many-n-bihar-dists/articleshow/77187132.cms||S K Jain
July 27, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 60-year-old man held for raping minor girl||PATNA: Police on Sunday arrested a 60-year-old man from Nawada district on charges of raping a 12-year-old schoolgirl at her native village under the Akbarpur police station area in the district. Police said the accused accosted the girl, a Class VI student at the local government school, took her to a bush and outraged her modesty on Saturday. The incident took place when the girl was returning home after relieving herself. Her family members brought the matter to the notice of Akbarpur police after the girl narrated her ordeal. The Akabarpur police referred the complaint to the women’s police station, which arrested the accused, a neighbour of the survivor. On Sunday, the accused was produced before the court, which remanded him in judicial custody for 14 days. SHO of Nawada women’s police station Babita Rani said the girl was sent to the sadar hospital at Nawada for medical examination. “The medical report is awaited,” the SHO said, adding the accused has been booked under different sections of IPC and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. In another incident, a woman accused four people – Sanjiv Kumar, Bablu Singh, Pano Singh and Vibhuti Singh – of sexually harassing her when she had gone to relieve herself in an agricultural field at a village under Warisaliganj police station in Nawada district. A police complaint was lodged against the accused with the police on the basis of the woman’s statement. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/60-year-old-man-held-for-raping-minor-girl/articleshow/77187228.cms||Ramashankar
July 27, 2020||Patna||Bihar floods: Three IAF choppers airdrop food packets in affected districts||PATNA: Three choppers of the Indian Air Force (IAF), which joined the relief operations in flood-affected north Bihar districts on Saturday, airdropped food packets in remote and inaccessible areas of Darbhanga, East Champaran, Madhubani and Gopalganj on Sunday. Defence ministry public relations officer (Prayagraj region) Shailendra Pandey told TOI over phone that two Mi-17 helicopters are operating from Darbhanga IAF base and one from Bihta in Patna. “At least 18.1 tonnes of food packets were airdropped on the first day of operation on Saturday,” he said. State disaster management department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit said IAF choppers said all three choppers were being used to carry out relief operations. “On Sunday, six sorties were made for Gopalganj, three for Motihari and two for Darbhanga. Inclement weather in Darbhanga didn’t allow further sorties,” he added. “Food packets were airdropped at Devapur and Bhaghichi in Gopalganj and Sangrampur in East Champaran. In Darbhanga, food packets were airdropped in Sadar area, Kevati and Kusheshwarsthan,” Amrit said. He added 2.5kg of staple rice, half kilogram of sugar or jaggery, 1kg chana, six candles and matchboxes form a food packet. “ORS powder packets were also included in food packets in Darbhanga,” he said. Amrit said now 11 north Bihar districts are affected by floods with Saran being the latest inclusion. “The disaster management department is watchful as another alert for heavy showers has been sounded by Indian Meteorological Department for Kishanganj, Araria, Purnia, Supaul and other districts bordering Nepal on July 28 and July 29,” he said, adding more than 472 community kitchens were running in the flood-hit districts. Meanwhile, NDRF’s 9th battalion commandant Vijay Sinha said 31 villagers were rescued from Sonwaliya village in Baikunthpur block of Gopalganj on Sunday after the area was suddenly inundated by the Gandak. “The villagers taking shelter on top of two houses, one of which had tilted due to soil erosion. The NDRF personnel spotted them after a villager flashed cellphone light on Saturday night,” he said, adding the rescue operation began at 11pm on Saturday and continued till 5am on Sunday. The commandant said at least 40 people were rescued from a country-made boat whose engine failed and got stuck in fast current of the Gandak at Bhawanipur village under Sangrampur block in East Champaran district on Saturday. “Around 4,900 flood-affected people of Gopalganj, East Champaran, West Champaran, Darbhanga, Supaul and Saran districts have so far been recused by the NDRF personnel,” Sinha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/three-iaf-choppers-airdrop-food-packets-in-affected-dists/articleshow/77187149.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 27, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Six cops among 18 hurt in clash over burning of funeral pyre||PATNA: Police had to open fire in air to quell a mob indulged in stone pelting and firing following a violent clash over burning of a funeral pyre in Aurangabad district on Sunday. At least six police personnel, including a circle inspector and a station house officer, were injured in the stone pelting. The injured cops are undergoing treatment at the referral hospital at Amba. Earlier, 12 people from two rival groups were injured in the clash. Police have so far detained six people for attacking cops and obstructing them from discharging duty. Trouble started around 8am when some residents of Kasauti village reached a pond on the outskirts of neighbouring Bharat village with the body of a woman, who had died on Saturday night. As the kin of the woman was about to lit the pyre, a group of people rushed to the cremation site and stopped them. This led to a clash between the residents of Kasauti and Bharat villages in which 12 people were injured. On getting information, police teams from Amba and Kutumba police stations reached the spot and tried to bring the situation under control. However, the villagers started pelting the police personnel with stones, causing head injuries to circle inspector Satish Kumar, SHO of Amba police station Birendra Paswan and four more cops. Aurangabad SP (incharge) Pankaj Kumar said police fired three rounds in the air to disperse the violent mob. “Nobody was injured in the police firing. A police team led by Aurangabad deputy superintendent of police Anup Kumar is camping at the village. The pyre of the woman was lit under the supervision of circle officer Anil Kumar,” the SP added. Mithilesh Paswan, a local, said they have been burning the pyre at the village pond for long, but never witnessed any protest from the residents of Bharat village earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/6-cops-among-18-hurt-in-clash-over-burning-of-funeral-pyre/articleshow/77187192.cms||Ramashankar
July 27, 2020||Business||TikTok clones from India, China and US fill the void||BENGALURU: Three weeks after the TikTok ban, homegrown short-video app Roposo, owned by InMobi, has shown the highest growth of almost 142% in new downloads in the race to fill the gap after the ban of the ByteDance-owned platform. Interestingly, the other top two apps in the same space are from China (Zili by Xiaomi) and the US (Dubsmash) respectively, indicating the TikTok replacement is not entirely by local apps. This is based on data from SensorTower, which compared the growth of these apps during the three weeks before the ban of 59 Chinese apps and then three weeks after. Overall, these three apps saw a growth of 155% in new downloads after the TikTok ban. This comes at a time when multiple local apps like Chingari and Trell have seen good growth and are trying to emulate TikTok in India. Among the 59 Chinese apps banned here last month, TikTok was the largest one in terms of number of users, which stood at about 200 million with 120 million of them monthly active users. Since the ban, Roposo, Zili, and Dubsmash together have garnered close to 22 million downloads, around 13% of TikTok’s installs in India in the first six months of 2020, according to SensorTower. Owing to recent geopolitical developments, the government has banned 59 apps, which also includes e-tailer Club Factory. In the three weeks to July 19, Roposo saw over 13 million downloads, while Zili was installed almost 8 million times, followed by over 6-lakh installs for Dubsmash. In terms of all-time installs, Roposo now has 71 million installs, while Zili has 51 million, and Dubsmash has over 30 million. This data, which includes Google and Apple app stores, also indicates high competition for Indian platforms, whether from US platforms or Chinese rivals that are not banned in India. The government has, since the ban, urged local developers to build more apps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tiktok-clones-from-india-china-and-us-fill-the-void/articleshow/77188306.cms||Digbijay Mishra
July 27, 2020||Business||ICICI Bank to sell 4.2% in broking arm for Rs 726 crore||MUMBAI: ICICI Bank is looking to sell around 4.2% stake in its broking arm ICICI Securities during this financial year. Given the current share price, the stake is worth around Rs 726 crore. This will be the third strategic value unlocking by the company during the year. In the first quarter, the bank had sold 3.6% stake in ICICI Lombard for Rs 2,250 crore and 1.5% stake in ICICI Prudential Life Insurance for Rs 840 crore. Last week, ICICI Securities crossed its IPO pricing of Rs 519 after more than two years. Broking companies have been doing brisk business during the lockdown as retail participation has increased due to a sharp fall in interest rates. The bank needs to sell at least 4.2% in order to bring its stake down to 75%, to comply with Sebi regulations. “ICICI Bank’s stake in our life insurance and non-life insurance subsidiary is just above 50%. If there is a long-term strategic opportunity, we will look at that, there will no longer be any more of the 1% stake sales,” said ICICI Bank president Sandeep Batra. ICICI Bank has announced plans to raise Rs 15,000 crore of equity capital to cushion its balance sheet against the impact of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/icici-bank-to-sell-4-2-in-broking-arm-for-rs-726cr/articleshow/77188308.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Man chooses daughter’s studies over fertilizer||VADODARA: Every year with approaching monsoon, farmer from Haripura Vasediya village in Chhota Udepur district, Shivji Rathwa, goes shopping in Naswadi town to buy fertilizer with money he saved throughout the year. This year too, Rathwa went ‘monsoon’ shopping to Naswadi town, but returned home with an old television and a dish and set-top box for satellite TV instead. Not that the Rathwas were keen on entertainment. But because the father wanted to sow in his daughter’s good education this time. Rathwa had been noticing his daughter Hetal, a Class XII student, help her mother daily with household work than do her online lessons. But living in a village, where mobile connectivity was terribly poor forcing people either to run up on terraces or even a nearby hillock to talk over phone, learning through online classes was a distant dream. Rathwa then learned that home learning classes are also broadcast on the state-run Doordarshan Girnar channel and so he got an old broken television and DTH set from his relative. “This is a crucial year for her so even if little, she will now be able to learn something,” Rathwa told TOI. He spent over Rs 3,100 to purchase the DTH set and also repair the defunct TV. In the afternoons now, Hetal studiously sits in front of the television and attends to the hour-long class, after which she returns to help her mother. But the TV is not switched off. Reason? Other girl students from the village come to Rathwa’s house for their studies. When asked how will he manage without fertilizer, the proud father replied quickly: “I will manage somehow. The sowing season has just begun so I will borrow from my friends in the village.” “There are around two dozen students in the village who will take board exams this year. Earlier in our village rarely anyone studied beyond Class X, but now parents have become aware and encourage their kids for studies,” said Dhirendra Rathwa, a resident of the same village. The village has a school but only till Class V. Most of the students have to go to the model residential schools at Tanakhla, Puniyavant, Linda among others. “Not every parent can buy a TV. Installing a tower for mobile network would be expensive, but if the government can install a large TV and DTH set in a community hall of the village all students can benefit and they would not have to drop out of their studies,” Rathwa added wistfully.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-chooses-daughters-studies-over-fertilizer/articleshow/77186457.cms||Jay Pachchigar
July 27, 2020||Business||India’s e-commerce penetration will double to 11% by 2024: Goldman Sachs||BENGALURU: India’s e-commerce industry is expected to reach $99 billion in size when online commerce penetration will more than double to almost 11%. The growth rate for the industry in India, for each of the next four years, would surpass the same of established economies like the US, China, the UK, Europe and Brazil, according to Goldman Sachs’s review of e-commerce markets globally. E-commerce is expected to register a growth of over 18% for the current year but estimates for 2021 and 2022 show a year-on-year growth rate of over 33% and 28% respectively. To compare, growth rates for the same period for the US are 17% and 19%, while it is nearly 11% for China in the next two years. To be sure, the market size base is bigger in both the US and China along with higher penetration of the total retail market. The pandemic is accelerating both growth and penetration of e-commerce further in these markets, including in India. At a recent industry seminar, Prashant Prakash, partner at venture capital firm Accel, which was one of the early-backers of Flipkart, said it took a decade for India to see e-commerce penetration of around 3% and that it has quickly moved to 5%. This is further seen in the bullishness shown by both Amazon India and Walmart here. Amazon has committed an additional $1 billion investment for India while Walmart said it will invest $1.2 billion in Flipkart. Among the sectors highlighted for e-commerce in India, the report estimated online grocery to be the biggest incremental growth driver for e-commerce with the segment expected to grow 20 times in India over five years to be of $29 billion in size (currently under $2 billion). While smartphones, electronics, large appliances have relatively higher online penetration, there is significant room for growth in categories like apparel, appliances, health & personal care, compared to economies like China, it added. “The category has been growing at more than 50% year-on-year for the last couple of years, but with the outbreak of Covid-19 resulting in a shift to online, and the recent entry of RIL, we believe growth will accelerate to 81% annual growth rate for the period of 2019-2024,” analysts at Goldman Sachs said. While Bigbasket and Grofers held more than 80% market share in the online grocery last year, it estimates RIL (via JioMart) could end with 50% market share by 2024 but there will be space for two or more large players to exist in a large market like grocery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indias-e-comm-penetration-will-double-to-11-by-2024-goldman-sachs/articleshow/77188311.cms||Digbijay Mishra
July 27, 2020||Allahabad||UP: Covid patient who went missing found dead in Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: The body of the 60-year-old Covid-19 patient, who went missing from a ward of Swaroop Rani Nehru Hospital on Saturday, was found near MG road on Sunday evening. Inspector (Kotwali) DK Singh said the body was recovered near a nursery located on MG road under the limits of Kotwali police station on Sunday evening. He added that this man was tested positive for Covid-19 on July 23 and was later admitted at SRN Hospital’s Covid ward for treatment. “The patient’s mobile phone had been switched off since 9.45pm Saturday night. An investigation is still on.” The patient’s family members alleged that he was upset over the poor facilities being extended to Covid-19 patients at SRN Hospital. Earlier during the day, Congress workers handed over a memorandum to district authorities and said that the patient’s family members had been searching for him throughout the night and the authorities did not help them. Congress workers also demanded a probe in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/corona-patient-who-went-missing-found-dead/articleshow/77186327.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Patna||MMC principal all praise for pupils, teachers||PATNA: Even as Magadh Mahila College (MMC), a constituent unit of Patna University, could not celebrate its platinum jubilee scheduled this Sunday with pomp and show due to Covid-19, its principal Shashi Sharma has thanked all students, faculty members and supporting staff for their valuable contributions to the all-round development of the institution over the years. “A grand celebration will be held when the situation becomes normal,” she said. Located in a beautiful campus on the banks of river Ganga, the NAAC-accredited college has been accorded with CPE (college with potential for excellence) status by the UGC. Quality teaching, facilities for extra-curricular activities including sports, music, social service, population education club, GK centre, Green Earth Brigade and availability of hostel accommodation (the college has got as many as four hostels) on the campus makes MMC the most sought after institution for girls throughout the state and also from neighbouring states as well as Nepal. MMC students have not only excelled in academics, sports and music over the period but have also brought accolades to their alma mater with their extra ordinary performances in software engineering and IT sectors. The alumni of the college are holding responsible positions in many public and private sector organizations as doctors, engineers, lawyers, academicians, bankers, software developers, civil servants and politicians. Notable amongst them are gynaecologist Anmola Sinha, former vice-chancellors Ramola Nandi and Lalita Singh, celebrated folk singer Sharda Sinha and politicians like Tarkeshwari Sinha, Shakuntala Sinha, Girija Sinha, Sukhada Pandey, Rita Verma and Kiran Ghai. Of late, Neelakshi Singh has earned national acclaim as a sensitive story writer of the younger generation. An ISO-certified institution, MMC has decided to set up plethora of new job-oriented courses and set up an e-library and multimedia lab in its platinum jubilee year. “The proposed new courses include degree courses in geography and mass communications and postgraduate courses in commerce, business administration and computer applications,” the principal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mmc-principal-all-praise-for-pupils-teachers/articleshow/77186787.cms||B K Mishra
July 27, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Discarded PPE, unmasked players shock Lake walkers||KOLKATA: A day after a successful lockdown, imposed to break the Covid-spread chain, morning walkers at Rabindra Sarobar were in for a rude shock. Used PPE dumped on the road side near the complex and more than 50 unmasked people playing football or washing themselves in the water body without following social distancing norms greeted morning walkers on Sunday, triggering panic. They alerted the security guards and shot a letter to Antara Acharya, CEO, KMDA, expressing their anguish. KMDA, keepers of the Lake, had opened the complex from July 1, for three hours from 5.30am every day, after chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced the relaxation for morning walkers. However, it was closed on the two lockdown days this week. TimesViewIndiscriminate disposal of PPE is an example of irresponsibility that puts the entire community at risk. Cops and civic agencies should penalise people for this just as lockdown and mask violations now attract action.“We had to walk past the pavement where the used PPE was dumped, somewhere between Bengal Rowing Club and Lake Club,” said Probir Kumar Das, former director of NIT and a morning walker. Environmentalist S M Ghosh said, “KMDA recently stopped single-scull rowing inside Rabindra Sarobar citing the need to arrest the spread of the virus. And this morning, right after the lockdown, we found people playing football, crowding the place and washing themselves in the lake, without wearing masks or following social distancing norms. And then we found used PPE on the pavement.” Arun Agarwal, who has been taking walks in the morning for four decades, said, “I am diabetic and 70 years old. I was so happy when the Lake reopened for us for three hours. But after today, I don’t think I can come here for morning walks. The football match started at 6am and continued till 8am. We couldn’t do our walking or exercises because these people were all over the place, sitting and strolling on the tracks used for jogging and walking. Nobody was wearing a mask.” Another morning walker, retired teacher Saroma Mukherjee, complained to the security guards against the football players. “It was of no use. The guards just stood and watched the violations. I am not sure I will come for morning walks from tomorrow. It’s too dangerous when Covid is rapidly spreading and the authorities are unable to take steps to implement safety protocol. KMDA must consider these as grave issues and identify the culprits without delay,” she said. A KMDA official looking after Rabindra Sarobar said, “The PPE could have been used by frontline workers in a local clinic. KMC is supposed to ensure that PPE kits are not dumped in the open. But we are trying to make sure that football is not played on the premises.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/discarded-ppe-unmasked-players-shock-lake-walkers/articleshow/77187845.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
July 27, 2020||Patna||Gaya: Shortage of frontline workers hits anti-Covid fight||GAYA: With more than 75% of the sanctioned post of doctors lying vacant, Gaya’s fight against Covid has got somewhat weakened. As against the sanctioned strength of 422 government doctors in a district with an estimated population of 50 lakh (43 lakh as per the 2011 census), the total number of doctors is now 98. The posts are lying vacant for several years. As against 212 posts of specialists in the district, the working strength is only 41. In respect of specialists, the vacancy comes to more than 80% of the sanctioned strength. Not only that, as against the sanctioned strength of 210 general physicians, the working strength is only 57. Conceding that the shortage of doctors adversely affected the anti-Covid fight, civil surgeon Dr BK Singh said the available resources are being put to optimum use. Services of 114 Ayush doctors are also being used. “But Ayush doctors have their own limitations in dealing with the pandemic,” said the civil surgeon. According to activist Baliram Sharma, shortage of doctors affects the war against Covid in more than one way. Besides less manpower, the shortage also means that even in case of dereliction of duty by working doctors, the authorities can do little as actions like suspension will further deplete the strength and as such working doctors, in a way can get away with their acts of omission and commission. According to a serving doctor preferring anonymity, he will not mind being suspended during this pandemic as he will then be spared of the taxing schedule and risks involved in dealing with Covid cases. Asked about the vacancy in the paramedical category, the civil surgeon said that he was not in a position to give details off hand but a sizeable number of posts are vacant even in this category as well. Dr Harichand Hari, superintendent, Anugrah Narain Magadh Medical College Hospital (ANMMCH), also said that staff shortage is being felt. More than half-a-dozen ANMMCH doctors earlier tested Covid positive. Several paramedical staff of the hospital including those working in the virological lab too, tested positive. Meanwhile, an additional isolation facility is being created in the district to accommodate as many Covid positive cases as possible. Besides the existing isolation beds in ANMMCH, sub-divisional hospitals at Tekari and Sherghati and APHC, Mahkar (home village of ex-CM Jitan Ram Manjhi), a 50-bed Isolation centre has been established at the Indoor Stadium located in Gaya Gandhi Maidan. According to district magistrate Abhishek Singh, a 60-bed Covid care centre is also being set up at Nizamia Unani Medical College Hospital near Belaganj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/shortage-of-frontline-workers-hits-anti-covid-fight/articleshow/77186648.cms||Abdul Qadir
July 27, 2020||Business||Aditya Puri sells HDFC Bank shares worth Rs 843 crore||MUMBAI: Aditya Puri, HDFC Bank’s managing director who’s slotted to retire in about three months, last week sold about 74 lakh shares of the bank worth about Rs 843 crore, exchange disclosures showed. This is the second instance of Puri selling HDFC Bank shares this year. Between February 11 and February 12, Puri had sold 12.5 lakh shares of the bank for about Rs 156 crore. Puri, who quit his job as head of Citibank Malaysia to launch HDFC Bank in 1994, has created the country’s second-largest lender and most valuable bank with a market cap of about Rs 6 lakh crore. Under his leadership, the bank has given 20% growth with a consistency that analysts began to describe as “boring”. The bank is now the third most valued listed entity in India, behind Reliance Industries (Rs 14 lakh crore) and TCS (Rs 8 lakh crore). Puri had 0.14% of the bank’s equity. After the offloading, which was equivalent to 0.13%, he is left with 0.01% stake, currently worth Rs 43 crore (about 3.8 lakh shares), according to BSE disclosure. According to the bank’s filing with the BSE so far this month, 39 of HDFC Bank’s executives who are designated ‘insiders’ under Sebi rules, have sold the bank’s shares aggregating Rs 884 crore. This includes sales by Puri and Ashok Khanna, who recently quit as the head of the lender’s auto loan business. Market analysts and fund managers around the world usually keep a close watch on insider transactions, for a cue about the future course of the business of the entity and its stock price. Generally, it is believed that insider selling indicates a likely slide in the stock price while insider buying points to a spurt in stock price. From falling to a year-low level of Rs 739 on March 23, so far HDFC Bank’s stock price has rallied 53% to its current close at Rs 1,131 on the BSE. On Sunday, HDFC Bank said that the shares that Puri sold were allotted to him “at different times and at different price points” and were not allotted at par. “Therefore, the net amount realized by Puri is not Rs 843 crore as stated. The acquisition cost of shares and the tax payable on the transaction has to be accounted for,” it said. After being set up in mid-1994, HDFC Bank went public in 1996. In the last 20 years, for which data is available, the bank’s market cap has grown from about Rs 5,400 crore at the start of the millennium to its current level of above Rs 6 lakh crore: That’s a growth of over 112 times in two decades. Seen another way, an investment of Rs 1 lakh in the bank’s shares on January 1, 2000, would be worth a little over Rs 1 crore now. In addition, the bank has also paid dividends over this period, which is outside of the stock return.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/puri-sells-hdfc-bank-shares-worth-rs-843cr/articleshow/77188315.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Business||Some see golden chance to settle loan||CHENNAI: A record-high price is giving an opportunity for gold loan borrowers to sell off their pledged gold and settle the loan or opt for a foreclosure and borrow more for the same gram of gold. According to RBI regulations, up to 75% of the value of the gold can be lent. Rising gold prices have meant that loan-to-value (LTV) is higher by Rs 500 per gram on the same jewellery. Private gilt lender Manappuram Finance MD & CEO V P Nandakumar said, “It is true that we have been seeing a new trend of gold loan customers settling their pledges in order to sell the gold in the scrap market and take advantage of the prevailing high gold price. This trend was at its peak in May, when the lockdown was lifted and branches reopened, and it is gradually coming down over the past two months.” “Before the lockdown, the LTV stood at Rs 2,850 per gram and currently it stands at Rs 3,350 per gram of 22 carat gold,” Nandakumar said. A good part of the quarter was lost to lockdowns, and with public transport not functioning in most parts, customer footfalls at the branches were low. Therefore, the growth came mostly from existing customers who benefited from the increased LTV driven by increased gold prices. Customers have made use of our digital channels to increase their borrowings against their existing pledges. An official from City Union Bank said “With the gold price skyrocketing, we see our customers rushing to close their existing gold loans, by which they could borrow at higher against the same gold (jewellery). After deducting the interest, customers will get Rs 5,000 more for every one sovereign of gold (8 gram).” Karur Vysya Bank has seen gold loan borrowings against the already pledged jewellery go up by 15%-20%. “We do see borrowers keen to take advantage of this rise in gold price, especially with higher demand from farmers in the delta region. However, we have not made any revision on the LTV, as we do not know when the price would crash.” While many lenders are treading cautiously, the cushion appears the easy liquidity of gold. “Normally, it’s a 3-month loan fully asset-backed. While people say prices have reached speculative orbit, some analysts are still bullish. We are seeing many customers sell their pledged gold,” said Y S Chakravarthy, MD & CEO of Shriram City Union Finance. (With inputs from Rajesh Chandramouli)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/some-see-golden-chance-to-settle-loan/articleshow/77187517.cms||Mamtha Asokan
July 27, 2020||Kolkata||Containment efforts intensify in slum to check south Kolkata Covid-19 spread||KOLKATA: Large parts of Lake Gardens and Jodhpur Park are now under the threat of Covid-19 infection with the number of cases rising in Gobindapur slum. The slum is home to hundreds of utility service providers, like security guards, plumbers, masons and domestic helps, who are employed by residents of Jodhpur Park and Lake Gardens. It also has several phuchkawallahs who fan out to different parts of south Kolkata for their business. The civic body and cops are also wary about the virus crossing Jodhpur Park and bridging a 500m buffer that currently exists between it and another Covid zone in Golf Green and Bijoygarh. They are aware that containing the virus in the belt will become far more challenging if the buffer is breached. Then, the infection might spread exponentially. Ever since the slum was brought under the containment zone four days ago, the Kolkata Municipal Corporation and police have tried to contain the virus spread by sealing it off. The civic health department on Wednesday conducted swab tests of 100 slum dwellers and the solid waste management department carried out a comprehensive sanitization drive. A door-to-door survey is also under way to detect people with mild symptoms. “We need to keep a close vigil on the large housing complex, which has a large number of senior citizens, adjacent to the slum,” a KMC health department official said. There is also the fear that with the neighbouring Rahim Ostagar Lane reporting cases regularly, parts of Jodhpur Park, too, will become vulnerable. “We have reasons to get worried with so many inhabitants of a slum located close to my house getting infected. I hope KMC and the cops will take effective steps with special focus on the slum,” said Nabanita Bose, a resident of Jodhpur Park. Fear is palpable among a section of Lake Gardens residents too. Pradip Mukherjee, a retired government officer who stays close to the slum, expressed fear that the virus might travel via the domestic helps who live there. “I have decided to go without a domestic help till the virus is contained,” Mukherjee said. In a swift response though, cops have now sealed major portions of Gobindapur Road. “Our teams have reached out with pulse oximeters and thermal scanners. A list of those who need to be quarantined is being prepared. We are also distributing medicines. We have successfully fought Covid across several north Kolkata slums, which included some intense micro-level interventions. There is no reason why that model will not work here,” said a senior IPS officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/containment-efforts-intensify-in-slum-to-check-s-kol-cov-spread/articleshow/77187836.cms||Saikat Ray
July 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Psychologists step in to stem virus fear||Vijayawada: After pulmonologists and core health care workers, psychologists and psychiatrists are playing a significant role in handling the Covid-19 pandemic. The outbreak of the infection has had a psychosocial impact by causing mass hysteria, economic burden and financial losses. The disease has also generated a plethora of psychiatric manifestations across different strata of society. The Krishna district administration along with Andhra Pradesh Psychologists’ Association (APPA), hence, has started free phone consultations for Covid-19 patients Around 1,200 people are utilising the helpline per day, on average. Speaking to TOI, Dr TS Rao, rehabilitation psychologist and president of APPA said Covid-19 has had a psychological impact on people of all ages “We have been going to Covid-19 centres and interacting with patients. Most are scared and unable to think positively. Not all Covid-19 patients will die and only three per cent of them are put on ventilators. We are explaining this and motivating them. I have seen many cases of Covid-19 patients who don’t have any symptoms, but complications arose due to stress,” he said. Rao added that most people who call seek guidance after their neighbour or relative tests positive. Proper guidance and counselling are needed for these people so that they can overcome the fear, he said. A team of psychologists, including APPA vice president Dr Garre Shankar Rao, is conducting the phone counselling sessions. Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz said, “We are happy with the response from the public. Psychological strength is much needed to win over Covid-19. The APPA and its team are continuously counseling patients every day and have helped 5,700 patients till date,” Imtiaz said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/psychologists-step-in-to-stem-virus-fear/articleshow/77186616.cms||Venu Lanka
July 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Cyber frauds use QR code to cheat||HYDERABAD: Fraudsters have found a new way of cheating people on e-commerce websites. While earlier people instances of people getting conned while buying products have come to the light, the crooks have also started looting people while one tries to sell something. In one such instance, a 31-year-old private employee from Chikadpally was trying to sell a sofa set for Rs 7,000 on social media. “I received a call from a person who was interested in purchasing the product. He negotiated the price and later agreed to pay Rs 6,000 and said will transfer the amount to my Paytm account,” said the complaint. The fraudsters sent a QR code asking the peroson to scan it for receiving the payment. Believing him, the victim entered the PIN of his digital payment app and lost close to Rs 92,000. The crooks are also shopkeepers pretending to buy their products in bulk. In one incident, a shopkeeper from the IT corridor received a request for delivery of 20 litres of Hydraulic Oil over a phone call. The person on the other end agreed to pay Rs 21,000. The fraudster then requested for the phone number that the shopkeeper used for UPI application and sent the QR code through WhatsApp. “Believing the offender, the victim did not notice it was a request for paying the amount instead of receiving and lost Rs 56,000,” said a police officer from the cybercrime cell. With close to eight such instances reported, police officials have advised citizens to be cautious while making payments through QR Codes. “Do not scan QR code sent by unknown persons without verifying. Check before entering the PIN, whether the request has been made for receiving the amount or making a payment. People are also advised to use e-wallets only after one is fully aware of all the functions,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cyber-frauds-use-qr-code-to-cheat/articleshow/77187431.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Sweet shop owners welcome decision to open shop on Aug 2||Ludhiana: Sweet shop owners of city are jubilant after chief minister Amarinder Singh accepted their demand of allowing them to open their shops on August 2 for Rakhi. Presently, on Sundays shops are not permitted to open in the state due to weekend lockdown. During an FB live session on Saturday the CM had said that he had accepted the request of sweet shop owners to keep the shops open on August 2 for the convenience of the people of the state , but social distancing and other norms would have to be followed by the shop owners as well as the people. Recently, the sweet shop owners of Ludhiana and Punjab had met cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and sent their demand through him to the CM. Reacting to the decision, Narinder Pal Singh, state president of the Halwai Association, said, “We are already facing huge problems due to the coronavirus pandemic as our sales have crashed. Moreover, the Sunday ban has worked like a nail in our coffin as it was the only day of the week when majority of sales used to take place earlier. As the festival of Rakhi is on August 3 and it being Monday , the customers would want to buy the sweets a day earlier to avoid the rush but since August 2 is Sunday it will not be possible for us to open the shops. Therefore we requested cabinet minister Ashu to allow us to open the shops on Sunday.” According to Charanjit Singh , president of Halwai Association, Ludhiana, “We will take full responsibility of cleanliness and hygiene in our shops and also ensure that no crowds are built inside the shops. We request public as well to follow all norms and visit the shops with masks and obey the timings of operation of shops as well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sweet-shop-owners-welcome-decision-to-open-shop-on-aug-2/articleshow/77187429.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Police’s timely response prevents suicides||Thiruvananthapuram: The world is passing through a period where people who do not adhere to social-distancing norms are criticised for their foolishness, or even worse, booked by police for putting others and their own lives at risk. But not all those who threw caution to the wind are foolish and they deserve criticism. Some even win hearts by doing so. Like civil police officer Rasheed Jalaludeen, who was on duty in a containment zone at Vizhinjam. Jalaludeen did not hesitate to save an unknown woman who was attempting suicide by jumping into the sea. Jalaludeen’s act has won praises from the city residents and on Sunday, the city police authorities decided to reward him through an appreciation letter. It was on Friday afternoon, Jalaludeen risked his own life to save the woman. “It was around 1.30 pm and I was on bike-patrolling duty,’’ said Jalaludeen, who is attached to Vizhinjam police station. He was about to take a break and have lunch when a woman rushed to him raising alarm over another woman whose actions evoked suspicion. The woman told the officer that the other woman, who rode a scooter, stopped by to ask direction towards Azhimala temple. When she told her that the temple was closed at that time, she asked her whether it was possible to access the beach behind the temple through its compound. Hearing this, Jalaludeen immediately passed an alert to the local station and rushed to the beach. When he spotted the woman, she was trying to scale the rocky cliff near the beach in a bid to jump. When he tried to speak to her, she even threw her phone at him. But the police officer managed to get hold of her and prevent her from jumping. Just a week ago, there was a similar incident at Thumba. This happened on July 18 at Stationkadavu under Thumba police station limits. A group of three constables of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) on security duty at Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC) here and a 27-year-old woman ailing from mental issues were the central characters in that episode. Her husband, who recently returned from Gulf after losing job owing to Covid, said she was under treatment for mental ailment and had displayed suicide tendencies in the past too. The woman jumped into the canal from a bridge in front of the main gate of VSSC. Constables B Balanaik, B Narasmhalu and D Sampath, who witnessed the woman’s attempt, acted swiftly and dived into the canal after her. Though they suffered minor injuries in the event, they were able to pull out the woman to safety before she drowned. She was taken to a hospital and was discharged after first-aid care on the same day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/polices-timely-response-prevents-suicides/articleshow/77186632.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Trichy||Rare stone cannonball unearthed near Trichy||Trichy: A 17th century stone cannonball weighing about 7kg with Tamil letter ‘Se’ inscribed on it was unearthed while digging a pit for laying communication cables at Manparai village near Trichy. Local people informed about the cannonball to S Babu, a researcher on fine arts of Tamil. He went to the spot and carried out a survey of the place. The cannonball dates back to 17th century, said Babu after analysing the stone. “Britishers used stone cannonballs to break open forts during wars. Such cannonballs were later used by Indian rulers also, says archaeologist C Santhalingam from Pandia Nadu Centre for Historical Research from Madurai. While stone cannonballs were found in a few places in the region, this one is rare for its inscribed Tamil letter, he said. He said the letters appears to be old going by its shape, which could be dates back to the time between 17th and 18th century. The letter may denote a place or the name of an individual, further exploration at the place could reveal more details, he said. Babu said that archaeological remains estimated to be of early Chola period were found in the village a few years ago. Pieces of earthen pot called Mudhumakkal Thazhi used by ancient people to bury elders after their death were found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rare-stone-cannonball-unearthed-near-trichy/articleshow/77188244.cms||Sampath Kumar
July 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Robber came on bike, left in car||AHMEDABAD: A Satellite-based businessman driving his sedan was stopped by a motorcycle-borne man who abused him, put a knife on his car’s bonnet, snatched away his car keys and drove away the car. This happened at around 9.30 pm on Saturday in Nehrunagar area of the city just a kilometre away from a police bundobust point at Nehtrunagar Circle when police were patrolling. In his FIR with Ellisbridge police, Sujan Shah, 47, resident of Paritosh Bungalows in Satellite who runs a furniture business in Lambha, stated that the incident occurred when he was going towards Gulbai Tekra. “I was driving my car towards Gulbai Tekra to bring my son from my sister-in-law’s place. When I was near Navyug Society in a lane beside SBI, a man riding a motorcycle drove parallel to me and waived his hand asking me to stop my car,” Shah states in the FIR. Shah added that as he stopped his car, the man put his motorcycle in front of his car. He then began talking with Shah aggressively and put a knife on his car’s bonnet. “The man, who was aged around 20 and 25, threatened to kill me and he said that he is a local goon of Vejalpur. At that time, another man also came there and asked him why he was abusing me. But the accused abused the man too, so he fled,” states Shah in the FIR. Then, the accused started Shah’s car and drove away while leaving behind his motorcycle. Shah approached Ellisbridge police and filed a complaint of robbery and criminal intimidation against the unknown man.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/robber-came-on-bike-left-in-car/articleshow/77187434.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Madurai||Naval personnel rescue stranded fishermen||Madurai: Naval personnel from Indian Naval Air Station, INS Parundu, and a few fishermen rescued 10 fishers stranded in the sea, eight miles off the coast of Pamban. The fishermen were left stranded after the mechanized fishing boat in which they were sailing started to sink on Sunday morning. The 10 fishers-Mariappan, Murugavel, Selvam, Ramu, Sannasi, Thangaraj, Sekar, Dharmaraj, Madasamy and Subash-went fishing from Tharuvaikulam in Tuticorin district on Saturday evening and were headed towards Nagapattinam. En route, their boat crashed against an unknown object and it started sinking near the Manali islands. A call for help by the fishermen was received by the Indian Coast Guard. After receiving an alert from the Coast Guard, a helicopter from INS Parundu, located near Uchipuli, reached the stranded fishermen immediately. Four fishermen were air lifted while the rest of the fishers were rescued by another fishing boat. They were given first aid before being sent back to their native place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/naval-personnel-rescue-stranded-fishermen/articleshow/77188245.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Councillors should limit meeting people to check its spread’||The first citizen of Ludhiana, mayor Balkar Sandhu, has remained at the front while encouraging frontline warriors of the civic body in fighting Covid-19. Despite being a heart patient, the mayor did not step back from his responsibilities towards the city and tried providing best facilities to the residents. Though he admitted that coronavirus cases are increasing and everybody needs to take preventive measures, he claimed that efforts were going on to control its spread so that it should not reach community spread stage. Here are a few excerpts from a conversation between TOI correspondent Nidhi Bhardwaj and the mayor. Q) A large number of Covid cases are being reported from the city. Where did we make a mistake in keeping a check on its spread? A) No doubt, the number of cases are increasing on a fast pace in the city. But it does not mean the state government or us have made any mistake in controlling the spreading of Covid-19. Punjab was the first state to impose lockdown after which other states and the central government took the step. The chief minister Amarinder Singh took stringent measures to curb the spread of the disease. But even then it is rising. It is spreading in the entire country but even then we can still control it. The Ludhiana MC started sanitisation in the state in the first stage and then other districts followed and did it in their respective cities. Q) Coronavirus has infected the officials and now even the councillors are Covid positive. Whether there are any plans to get all the councillors tested because they have to do maximum public dealing? A) Precaution is the only prevention from this disease and instead of meeting too many people the councillors should fix the limit for remaining in public. I am also one of the councillors and do public dealing every morning and then I have to go to the MC offices as well. But since the cases started growing gradually, I have made a schedule to visit MC offices on alternate days and even in my ward I maintain social distancing. As far as councillors testing is concerned, for this we will have to seek permission from the state government. The councillors who have doubts should definitely get themselves tested. Q) For limiting contact among the staff at MC offices and public some steps were taken by the civic body. But residents seem to be unhappy with those arrangements and continue visiting the officials. Why? A) The day we had decided to curb public dealing with staff I had instructed the cops deployed in zones not to allow any individual to meet any employee or staff member directly. The complaint boxes are kept at all zonal offices. These complaints are being traced properly but people I think do not get satisfaction unless they hand over the letters or documents in the hands of concerned officer. We have made arrangements and now it is up to the public for helping us in fulfilling the target for which we have taken this step. Q) Why can’t all complaints be addressed through online redress system? A) For addressing the public complaints where we have arranged the complaint boxes, we have also issued helpline numbers and email IDs of senior officers. These officials are keeping track of these complaints and on complaint helplines employees are told to trace the complaint and inform the complainant as well. Moreover, even for flood control rooms we have advertise on boards for public awareness. For every service being given by MC there are helpline numbers. We can only provide the facility, now it is up to public whether they want to opt it or not. Q) How can residents keep track of the status of their complaints? A) The complaints are coming through various sources as we have emails, mobile applications, manual complaint system and telephones. The staff deputed for noting down the complaints first keep record of complaint, they reach out to the officer concerned for solving the issue and then they call up the complainant whether the complaint was resolved and if it is not done they again ask the officer. The residents can check status of their complaints if they have done it online, while for telephonic complaints employees contact them. Mostly complaints come through councillors and people keep on asking their councillors unless it is resolved. Q) How is the MC coordinating with the health department in tracking the suspects cases and contacts of the affected residents? A) We are working in coordination with the health department and whenever there is any instruction from the civil surgeon office the officers act immediately. The officials are deputed to manage facilities in quarantine centres and whenever any area is declared containment or micro-containment zone the teams go for sanitisation, which is going on in affected areas and we have stocks to handle the situation. There will be no shortage of any kind. Q) Does Ludhiana have any action plan to deal with the eventuality of a community spread? A) We will act as per the directions of the state government and health department. If any such situation takes place, Ludhiana MC is always ready to give fight with whatever resources we have. We provided ration to the public, transported the migrants to railway station, sanitisation was done properly in all wards of the city, so in future too our efforts will be going on. Q) What are the future plans of civic body to continue with working during coronavirus? A) The working will go on as per the situation in the city. Since cases are increasing, so public dealing will be minimum. But one thing I have made clear to the staff that there will be no compromise with sanitation and other civic amenities for the residents. In the coming days we will distribute chlorine tablets among councillors for distributing those in slum areas, where people cannot afford RO system or purifiers because during rainy season water contamination troubles a lot. Q) Being first citizen of Ludhiana you have been seen without mask several times at public places. Don’t you think it spreads wrong message among public? A) I do not move out in public without mask. I have kept masks ready in my car and whenever I move out I wear those. Apart from this, I have continued following the guidelines issued by the WHO to wash hands regularly, maintain specific distance from others, etc. I am also aware of the seriousness of this disease and cannot take risk with my life. People should also wear mask when they are out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/councillors-should-limit-meeting-people-to-check-its-spread/articleshow/77187435.cms||Nidhi Bhardwaj
July 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Man dies in bike accident, family escapes||Hyderabad: A 26-year-old man died on the spot after his bike was hit by a car in Shamshabad on Saturday. His wife and two-year-old baby, who were travelling with him, escaped with minor injuries. According to Shamshabad police, Boinpally Venugopal was a private employee from Ayyavaripally village of Shadnagar mandal. “The victim wore a helmet but did not strap it. As a result, the moment he fell the helmet came off,” said Shamshabad ACP, Ashok Kumar Goud. According to the official, CCTV footage from near the accident spot revealed a Swift Dzire being driven negligently before it rammed Venugopal’s Hero Glamour bike. Both the vehicles were travelling in the same direction. “The number plate is not clearly visible. We are investigating,” said the ACP. A case was registered under section 304-A (causing death by negligence) and 337 (whoever causes hurt to any person by doing any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life or the personal safety of others) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-dies-in-bike-accident-family-escapes/articleshow/77187438.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Freight traffic increases by 130% during lockdown||Thiruvananthapuram: Despite Covid crisis, the Thiruvananthapuram division of Southern Railway has made it big through freight traffic. The division recorded an increase of 130% in outward freight movement within a month after lockdown was enforced. A total of 7,4047.3 tonnes of goods were transported from Thiruvananthapuram division in April, while it increased to 1,70,967.13 tonnes in May. Gradual hike was also noticed in June with transportation of 2,37,802.31 tonnes. The division earned Rs 6.55cr in April, Rs 20.26cr in May and Rs 25.54cr in June. Major contributors of outward freight traffic are Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited and Fertilisers and Chemicals Travancore Ltd. As many as 8,960 wagons of goods were transported from Thiruvananthapuram division during this period. Though the revenue is less when compared to the total freight revenue received during the previous financial year, which was more than Rs 400 cr, the goods movement had picked up in the division even during the Covid situation. As only a limited number of passenger trains are being operated, the railway has been focusing on increasing freight traffic. It had established a business development unit (BDU) in Thiruvananthapuram division. “The outward traffic has improved in Thiruvananthapuram division, which indicates that economic activity has been improving. It is likely to increase further in coming months, with the setting up of BDU to concentrate on freight movement. BDU is a platform for interaction with trade and industry to divert the transportation of goods via road to railway. They can contact the railway official in-charge of BDU for freight transport,” said Balamurali M, divisional commercial manager, Thiruvananthapuram division. The outward traffic includes fertilisers from FACT and petcoke from BPCL. The inward traffic consists of essential goods such as cereals, rice and construction material. A total of 6,65,115.48 tonnes of goods was transported to Thiruvananthapuram division (inward traffic) in 10,539 wagons from April to June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/freight-traffic-increases-by-130-during-lockdown/articleshow/77186672.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Madurai||Kodai traders continue shutdown for fourth day||Madurai: The traders in Kodaikanal town and nearby areas are following the one-week self-imposed lockdown strictly as all the shops remain closed for the fourth day on Sunday. The decision to shut down shops was taken at a meeting convened by Kodaikanal revenue department led by revenue divisional officer Sivakumar on July 21. It was decided to close all the shops except milk booths and medical stores between July 23 and July 29. People from various spheres including traders and social activists took part in the meeting. The president of Kodaikanal Chamber of Commerce, S N S Raja, said that the decision was taken after consulting all the people who took part in the meeting. Although a section of traders suggested a 15-day lockdown, the majority wanted a shorter one so that shops can be opened before the upcoming Bakrid festival. “There has been a good response for the closure as every trader has extended support by closing the shop,” he said. A revenue official said that Kodaikanal reported its first Covid-19 case only in the first week of June. Only a few cases were reported in June, but the number started increasing in the last few weeks. The total number of Covid-19 cases is nearing 150 in Kodaikanal and there are around 100 active cases now. The officials said although the situation is not alarming, traders took the decision without any force from officials. With the shops completely closed, people’s movement has come down drastically. It will help bring down Covid-19 spread, he said. “The shutdown is completely voluntary and no action can be taken against a trader, if he chooses to open the shop,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kodai-traders-continue-shutdown-for-fourth-day/articleshow/77188247.cms||V Devanathan
July 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Woman tortured by husband over birth of a girl child||Ahmedabad: Sapna Rana, 23, of Khokhra lodged a complaint of domestic torture over birth of a girl child on Friday. She has accused her husband Kuldeep Rana, mother-in-law Nanniben Rana and father-in-law Roopsinh Rana, all based at Khokhra, of harassing her mentally and physically.Khokhra police have lodged a complaint under Sections 498 (A), 323, 294 (b) and 114 against the accused. Inspector Y S Gamit of Khokhra police station said they are probing the case and verifying the details of the FIR.Sapna stated in the FIR that she was wed to Kuldeep Rana about four years ago. A month ago she gave birth to a girl child. Her husband’s parents live nearby.“The complainant has alleged that on Friday at about 11pm in the night, when she’d asked her husband to arrange for the birth certificate of the baby girl, her husband started beating her. Hearing her cries of help her parents-in-law rushed in, but they too took the side of her husband and began abusing her.“The complainant then called the police control room and filed the complaint,” Gamit said.The FIR states that about two and a half years ago her husband had driven Sapna out of the house, and she returned only after her parents sent her back.“She has alleged that her husband and in-laws were torturing her for giving birth to a girl child as they’d wanted a boy,” said a police official.The complainant stated that initially she was treated well by her in-laws, but as time went by her husband started torturing her over cooking and other issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-tortured-by-husband-over-birth-of-a-girl-child/articleshow/77187441.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Death toll crosses 1k-mark as Covid-19 claims 56 more||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Covid-19 toll in Andhra Pradesh crossed the 1,000 mark with 56 more deaths on Sunday. The toll now stands at 1,041 with Kurnool district contributing 162 deaths, followed by Krishna with 144 and East Godavari 122. The state also reported 7,627 Covid-19 positive cases, taking the cumulative caseload to 96,298. Kurnool, which has turned into Covid-19 hotspot, recorded 1,212 new cases on Sunday. AP registered its first Covid-19 death on April 3, when a 55-year-old man from Vijayawada died. Since then, the state continued to register Covid-19 casualties in single digit until the string of record daily deaths started on July 13. Even though the mortality rate remained relatively stable at 1.08 per cent, the state witnessed about 710 fatalities in the last two weeks alone. Of the 56 deaths on Sunday, nine are from East Godavari, eight from Visakhapatnam, six from Kurnool, five each from Krishna, Nellore, Srikakulam and West Godavari, four from Chittoor, three from Vizianagaram, two each from Anantapur and Kadapa, and one each from Guntur and Prakasam. East Godavari reported 1,095 positive cases on Sunday followed by West Godavari 859, Visakhapatnam 784 and Anantapur 734. About 3,100 Covid-19 patients recovered from the disease on Sunday. There are currently 48,956 active cases with the 46,301 cumulative recoveries and 1,041 deaths. With the ever increasing cases, the recovery rate plummeted to 48%. When it comes to the district-wise caseload, East Godavari with 13,486 cases contributed 14% caseload to the state’s tally, closely followed by Kurnool with 11,570 cases. But the situation is not rosy even in other districts such as Guntur 10,003 cases, Anantapur 9,723, West Godavari 8,412, Chittoor 7442, and Visakhapatnam 6,781. The state, which is currently testing about 50,000 Covid samples a day, crossed the 16 lakh testing mark on Sunday. With this feat, Andhra Pradesh became the first state in the country to test at least 30,000 people per every million population against the national average of 11,746. The overall case positivity rate of Andhra Pradesh stood at 5.86 per cent compared to the national average of 8.51%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/death-toll-crosses-1k-mark-as-covid-19-claims-56-more/articleshow/77191636.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Amaravati||AP: Death toll crosses 1k-mark as Covid-19 claims 56 more||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Covid-19 toll in Andhra Pradesh crossed the 1,000 mark with 56 more deaths on Sunday. The toll now stands at 1,041 with Kurnool district contributing 162 deaths, followed by Krishna with 144 and East Godavari 122. The state also reported 7,627 Covid-19 positive cases, taking the cumulative caseload to 96,298. Kurnool, which has turned into Covid-19 hotspot, recorded 1,212 new cases on Sunday. AP registered its first Covid-19 death on April 3, when a 55-year-old man from Vijayawada died. Since then, the state continued to register Covid-19 casualties in single digit until the string of record daily deaths started on July 13. Even though the mortality rate remained relatively stable at 1.08 per cent, the state witnessed about 710 fatalities in the last two weeks alone. Of the 56 deaths on Sunday, nine are from East Godavari, eight from Visakhapatnam, six from Kurnool, five each from Krishna, Nellore, Srikakulam and West Godavari, four from Chittoor, three from Vizianagaram, two each from Anantapur and Kadapa, and one each from Guntur and Prakasam. East Godavari reported 1,095 positive cases on Sunday followed by West Godavari 859, Visakhapatnam 784 and Anantapur 734. About 3,100 Covid-19 patients recovered from the disease on Sunday. There are currently 48,956 active cases with the 46,301 cumulative recoveries and 1,041 deaths. With the ever increasing cases, the recovery rate plummeted to 48%. When it comes to the district-wise caseload, East Godavari with 13,486 cases contributed 14% caseload to the state’s tally, closely followed by Kurnool with 11,570 cases. But the situation is not rosy even in other districts such as Guntur 10,003 cases, Anantapur 9,723, West Godavari 8,412, Chittoor 7442, and Visakhapatnam 6,781. The state, which is currently testing about 50,000 Covid samples a day, crossed the 16 lakh testing mark on Sunday. With this feat, Andhra Pradesh became the first state in the country to test at least 30,000 people per every million population against the national average of 11,746. The overall case positivity rate of Andhra Pradesh stood at 5.86 per cent compared to the national average of 8.51%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/death-toll-crosses-1k-mark-as-covid-19-claims-56-more/articleshow/77191638.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Forest department to arrest gold smuggling ‘kingpin’ K T Ramees||KOCHI: Even as the National Investigation Agency (NIA) is set to question former secretary to the CM and IAS officer M Sivasankar on Monday again in connection with the gold smuggling case, the noose is tightening around the mastermind of the operation, K T Ramees, as various agencies are checking his antecedents as well. Ramees is presently in the custody of the Commissionerate of Customs (Preventive) (CCP) which arrested him. His custody period is set to end on Monday and sources say CCP is likely to seek an extension of his custody so that he can be questioned along with two other accused, Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair, who customs intend to seek in custody as well. But it is not just the customs department that needs Ramees in custody, sources with the Kerala forest department on Sunday said they would soon record the formal arrest of Ramees in a case in which he has been accused of instigating locals to hunt wild animals and selling the meat. “He was in a Covid care centre and later in the custody of customs. Once he is back in judicial custody, we would record his arrest and seek him in custody,” said a forest officer. NIA, meanwhile in its remand reports filed in the case, has been hinting at investigating Ramees’s unlawful activities. In the report filed on Friday, NIA cites the statements of Swapna and Sandeep to state that Ramees was a kingpin in the case. “A-4 (Sandeep) had also stated about the suspected unlawful activities of Ramees which will affect the security of the nation,” it said. An earlier remand report mentions the statement of the accused that Ramees insisted on smuggling gold in large quantities and maximum numbers during the lockdown period ‘as the financial position of the country is weak’. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) too is probing the activities of Ramees. ED had filed a case information report on July 13 against Ramees, as well as others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/forest-dept-to-arrest-gold-smuggling-kingpin-ramees/articleshow/77186644.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Nagpur||Death arrives before ambulance for one, hospital out of bounds for another||Nagpur: A Kamptee catonment resident who took up tailoring contracts for the army died before an ambulance could evacuate him. In a parallel event, rules prevented a 50-year-old Covid patient employed in military engineering services (MES) at the cantonment from getting medical aid from military hospital (MH) close by. When the ambulance reached near the deceased person’s place at Gora Bazaar the first time, it returned. The crew cited lack of formalities, as per the deceased’s kin. By the time the ambulance came again, the person had died. Likewise, the MES employee had to wait for over five hours for the ambulance to reach Kamptee, 15 kms from Nagpur, and bring her to Government Medical College (GMC) on Saturday, said her kin. MH at Kamptee is billed to have the biggest general ward in Asia. It was set up in 1937. MES is a part of the army. However, as the employee was a civilian, she was not taken in MH. Her kin and other civilian residents of cantonment said she should have been accommodated in the MH at least in times of emergency like Covid. The hospital is now admitting Covid-19 patients, but is available only for the uniformed personnel and their families. At GMC, the patient told TOI, she got a bed close to midnight. “After my mother complained of lost taste and smell on July 22, I took her to the cantonment hospital, from where she was referred to the sub-district hospital at Kamptee town for Covid tests. Her turn came only on July 24. The report came on July 25,” said her son. “She had to be taken to a hospital in Nagpur as MH is not for us. We did not even get ambulance from the MH. The ambulance that I called from outside at 4pm reached at 9:30pm,” he said. “MH being closer would have been a better option. At GMC, I am totally in dark about her well-being,” he said. Kamptee tehsildar Arvind Hinge told TOI on a request by civilian authorities for allowing access to MH during the crisis, army told them it can happen only with permission of the ministry of defence. Daughter of the deceased person at Gora Bazar said, “My father was undergoing treatment for fever at a private hospital for over a week. As the fever did not subside, he was asked to get the Covid test done. We got the results on July 24. In a day he started feeling breathless.” She said when the first ambulance came around 11 am on July 25 the crew asked for a referral letter advising isolation first, which was not given by the hospital where the tests were done. The letter was arranged from cantonment hospital by 2 pm. “The ambulance reached by 4pm but by that time my father was dead. A team from cantonment hospital rushed with oxygen kit but it was too late,” she said. Deepak Siriya, vice-president of cantonment board, said the man’s report came by July 24 evening but ambulance was not available till next day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/death-arrives-before-ambulance-for-one-hospital-out-of-bounds-for-another/articleshow/77187992.cms||Shishir Arya
July 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Migrant labourer crushed to death, van driver booked||Ludhiana: A pick-up van has crushed a migrant labourer to death when he was crossing a road near Dhandari flyover on GT Road on Saturday night. The man fell on the road while the accused managed to escape from there. Some commuters then rushed the injured man to a hospital and also informed the police. At the hospital the man died while undergoing treatment. The deceased has been identified as Sukhlal Chaudhan (40) of Guru Nanak Nagar, Giaspura. He was a factory worker. Investigating officer head constable Jagjeevan Singh said that, “On Saturday night, Sukhlal was returning home from the factory. When he was crossing the road near Dhandari flyover on GT Road, an unidentified pick-up van hit him. The accused managed to flee while some onlookers rushed him to the hospital. Thereafter, some onlookers called the recently dialled number from the victim’s mobile phone, which was of Raj Kumar, co-worker of Sukhlal. He was informed about the whole incident. He added that Sukhal hailed from Bihar. He was living in Ludhiana alone while his wife and children live in Bihar. On the compliant of Raj Kumar the police have registered a case against the unidentified accused under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC. Further the police have contacted the family of the deceased. The autopsy of deceased will be conducted once his family reach the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/migrant-labourer-crushed-to-death-van-driver-booked/articleshow/77187439.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Family of ACP killed in hit-&-run wants cops to look into foul play||NEW DELHI: The probe into the hit-and-run case of ACP Sanket Kaushik, which took place near Rajokri flyover late of Saturday, has revealed that the mini-truck driver who crushed the senior police officer against a movable road divider had stopped to check for damages to his vehicle. The trucker drove off when Kaushik’s driver, Munni Lal, ran towards him. In his statement, Lal said that the accused was not wearing a mask and the numberplate of the mini-truck was smeared with mud. An FIR was registered on the basis of Lal’s statement. Kaushik’s family members have asked police to probe foul play in the case. “There are few CCTV cameras near the crime spot. Though it seems to be a hit-and-run case, we have requested for a thorough probe owing to the circumstances under which the incident took place. We are waiting for the vehicle to be identified,” said a relative. On Sunday, Kaushik was given full honours by Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava and senior officers at the traffic police headquarters in Todapur. He will also be declared a martyr for laying down his life in the line of duty. Munni Lal told police that Kaushik was walking on the right side of the service lane, a few metres ahead of his staff members, when the truck coming from Gurgaon side hit him from behind. The officer was hurled onto the movable divider and crushed by the truck. “I raised an alarm and shouted at the driver to stop, but he just looked back at me and sped off,” Lal said, adding he remembered the driver’s face. Police have recovered some metal angles that had fallen off the truck, which would be used as evidence. The area where the incident took place didn’t have CCTV coverage. There were two cameras in the service lane, but the numberplate of the truck was not visible due to lack of streetlights. Police are scanning through footage of cameras installed on Dwarka Link Road, NH-48 till Dhaula Kuan, Outer Ring Road and Vasant Kunj to identify the truck. There has been no headway in the case so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/family-of-acp-killed-in-hit-run-wants-cops-to-look-into-foul-play/articleshow/77187991.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Madurai||Madurai: Woman arrested for murder attempt on hubby||MADURAI: A 45-year-old woman was arrested for attempting to murder her husband for chatting with another woman over phone. The woman was identified as S Amutha, 45, a Sri Lankan Tamil refugee from Refugee Camp in Uchapatti near Thirumangalam in Madurai district. Her husband V Sivaraja, 47, a painter by profession, had been chatting with another woman for the last one year, but Amuthu did not like it and had warned him several times. A dispute broke out between the couple on Saturday night and both went to sleep later. Their daughter S Nirmala, 25, woke up to a thud in the wee hours of Sunday morning. She found her father in a pool of blood and raised an alarm to wake her neighbours, who rushed him to a hospital. The Austinpatti police were also alerted. Based on a complaint from Nirmala, a case was registered with the police station and Amutha was arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-arrested-for-murder-attempt-on-hubby/articleshow/77188246.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Death toll crosses 1k-mark as Covid-19 claims 56 more||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Covid-19 toll in Andhra Pradesh crossed the 1,000 mark with 56 more deaths on Sunday. The toll now stands at 1,041 with Kurnool district contributing 162 deaths, followed by Krishna with 144 and East Godavari 122. The state also reported 7,627 Covid-19 positive cases, taking the cumulative caseload to 96,298. Kurnool, which has turned into Covid-19 hotspot, recorded 1,212 new cases on Sunday. AP registered its first Covid-19 death on April 3, when a 55-year-old man from Vijayawada died. Since then, the state continued to register Covid-19 casualties in single digit until the string of record daily deaths started on July 13. Even though the mortality rate remained relatively stable at 1.08 per cent, the state witnessed about 710 fatalities in the last two weeks alone. Of the 56 deaths on Sunday, nine are from East Godavari, eight from Visakhapatnam, six from Kurnool, five each from Krishna, Nellore, Srikakulam and West Godavari, four from Chittoor, three from Vizianagaram, two each from Anantapur and Kadapa, and one each from Guntur and Prakasam. East Godavari reported 1,095 positive cases on Sunday followed by West Godavari 859, Visakhapatnam 784 and Anantapur 734. About 3,100 Covid-19 patients recovered from the disease on Sunday. There are currently 48,956 active cases with the 46,301 cumulative recoveries and 1,041 deaths. With the ever increasing cases, the recovery rate plummeted to 48%. When it comes to the district-wise caseload, East Godavari with 13,486 cases contributed 14% caseload to the state’s tally, closely followed by Kurnool with 11,570 cases. But the situation is not rosy even in other districts such as Guntur 10,003 cases, Anantapur 9,723, West Godavari 8,412, Chittoor 7442, and Visakhapatnam 6,781. The state, which is currently testing about 50,000 Covid samples a day, crossed the 16 lakh testing mark on Sunday. With this feat, Andhra Pradesh became the first state in the country to test at least 30,000 people per every million population against the national average of 11,746. The overall case positivity rate of Andhra Pradesh stood at 5.86 per cent compared to the national average of 8.51%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/death-toll-crosses-1k-mark-as-covid-19-claims-56-more/articleshow/77186666.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Allahabad||VHP to collect Sangam soil for temple on July 29||Prayagraj: The Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) leaders will collect soil and water from Sangam — the confluence of Ganga, Yamuna and mythical Saraswati on July 29 for the Bhoomi Pujan of Ram temple at Ayodhya on August 5, reports Kapil Dixit. VHP spokesman Ashwani Mishra told TOI on Sunday, “We will collect sacred soil and water from the Sangam on July 29 and send them to Ayodhya for the Bhoomi Pujan ceremony of Ram temple.” Only two members of the organisation would carry the Sangam soil and water to Ayodhya due to Covid situation, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/vhp-to-collect-sangam-soil-for-temple-on-july-29/articleshow/77186370.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Madurai||27 dead, 1,913 test +ve in south TN; central dists cross 10K cases||Madurai/Trichy:With 1,913 new cases on Sunday, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the southern districts touched 41,590 even as 27 deaths were reported. In a mild relief, the region was witnessing less than 2,000 cases after three days. Meanwhile, cases in the central region crossed 10,000 on Sunday, touching 10,509 with the addition of 591 new ones and comprising 4,036 active cases. According to the state bulletin, four deaths were recorded in Trichy, Thanjavur, Nagapattinam and Pudukottai districts. Virudhunagar added 385 new cases to take the district total to 5,959 and recording the death of a 50-year-old man admitted to Sivakasi government hospital. Madurai recorded 209 new cases with its total tally at 9,805 and the deaths at 210. Dindigul, Kanyakumari, Tuticorin and Theni districts also saw over 200 new cases each. Tuticorin had 248 followed by Theni with 217 new cases and Kanyakumari with 215. Dindigul had 203 new cases while Tirunelveli registered 186. The other three districts in the region reported less than 100 cases — Ramanathapuram (89), Sivaganga (88) and Tenkasi (73). The southern districts now have 14,628 active cases, of which Virudhunagar has 2,612, Tuticorin 2,314 and Madurai 1,952. As many as 26,415 people have been discharged. The total number of deaths in the southern districts touched 538. On Sunday, Madurai had eight deaths and Virudhunagar five. In the central region, a 56-year-old man who was brought dead to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital on July 21 tested positive on July 22. A 15-year-old girl from Thanjavur who was admitted on July 19 to Thanjavur MCH died the next day. Her sample taken on July 17 tested positive and she died of cariogenic shock. A 73-year-old man from Nagapattinam admitted with coronary artery disease on July 13 at Chennai Kilpauk medical college hospital tested positive and died on July 14 due to viral pneumonia. The fourth death was of a 65-year-old man from Pudukottai with diabetes mellitus who died on Friday. The total cases in Trichy climbed to 3,420 on Sunday with 131 fresh ones while Thanjavur recorded 153 new cases taking the district total to 2,045. In all, 113 cases were reported in Pudukottai district and 12 in Karur. A 31-year-old woman constable and a 49-year-old man from Karur town police station were among them. With 36 new cases, the total has gone up to 565 in Nagapattinam district while in Tiruvarur it is 93 cases. As many as 26 people tested positive in Perambalur district while in Ariyalur, 27 tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/27-dead-1913-test-ve-in-south-tn-central-dists-cross-10k-cases/articleshow/77188252.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Not involved in crime activity, criminal uploads video on FB||Ludhiana: Wanted in an attempt to murder case, a notorious criminal, Jatinder Singh Jindi, uploaded his video on Facebook claiming to have no involvement in any criminal activity. The Tibba police on May 31 had booked Jatinder Jindi, notorious criminal Puneet Bains and their accomplices for opening fire at a realtor, Kuldeep Singh, and his son Jaspreet Singh of Mayapuri, Tibba area. Before firing, the accused also thrashed Jaspreet over some monetary dispute. In this case Jindi and his accomplices are still absconding. While the police have failed in tracing and arresting the accused, on Sunday evening Jindi uploaded his video on his Facebook account after news went viral that the anti-narcotic cell of Ludhiana commissionerate arrested a man with an illegal pistol and four cartridges and he was suspected of having links with Jindi. In his video, Jindi says that he has no links with the man arrested with an illegal weapon. He also asked everyone to avoid spreading wrong information against him. Jindi also claimed that he had requested the commissioner of police, Rakesh Agarwal, for ordering an inquiry in the firing case on him, claiming that he was falsely trapped in that case. He also stated that he had no link with any gang or criminal activity. In-charge CIA-II inspector Parveen Randev said, “Jindi is wanted in an attempt to murder case. The police will soon trace his location. Besides, Jindi is a notorious criminal as he has several cases against him in the past.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/not-involved-in-crime-activity-criminal-uploads-video-on-fb/articleshow/77187445.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Madurai||Sivaganga gets siddha facility for Covid-19||Sivaganga: A Covid care centre offering siddha medication was inaugurated at a private hospital in Tirupattur in Sivaganga on Saturday by the minister for khadi and village industries, G Baskaran. This is the first siddha medication facility for Covid-19 in Sivaganga district and has a 100 bed facility. The district has recorded 33 deaths due to Covid-19. As siddha medication was also found to have produced good results in patients with mild symptoms, it was decided to start one such centre in the district. The patients staying here would be given siddha medication including kabasura kudineer and yoga during their stay. Deputy director of health services Yasoda Mani said that patients with mild symptoms and no comorbid conditions could opt for this medical facility. The patients would also be put on a diet while a doctor would frequently monitor the oxygen levels of patients here. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sivaganga-gets-siddha-facility-for-covid-19/articleshow/77188249.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Nagpur||Man kills elder brother||YAVATMAL: In a fit of rage, a man attacked his elder brother with a sharp object and killed him on the spot in village Pimpalshenda, Kalamb tehsil, on Saturday night. According to Kalamb PSO Vijay Pawar, the incident took place when accused Krishna Vithal Garat (26), a carpenter, returned home after work. He wanted to rest, but couldn’t do so as his elder brother Suresh (30) was watching TV. Krishna came out from his room and requested Suresh to switch off the TV. What followed was a heated argument after which Krishna took out a sharp object from his carpentry kit and attacked his brother who died on the spot. Officer Pawar and his team reached the spot and took the accused into custody. After the panchnama, Suresh’s body was sent to the Kalamb Rural Hospital for the post mortem. An FIR under section 302 of IPC was registered against accused Krishna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-kills-elder-brother/articleshow/77187997.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Nagpur||Housemaker, collegian, professional get first Covaxin trial dose in city||Nagpur: Phase-I human clinical trial of Covaxin — India’s first indigenously-developed vaccine against Covid-19 — began in Nagpur on Friday with the first dose of the injection given to three city residents. They include a 25-year-old university student, a 31-year-old professional and a 53-year old housemaker, informed Dr Chandrashekhar Gillurkar, director of Gillurkar Hospital and Research Institute, which is the only centre for these clinical trials in Maharashtra. “All three were selected after meeting the strict screening criteria. Their health parameters fit in our criteria and none of them has any comorbidity. First dose of 0.5ml intramuscular injection was given to them. We observed them for two hours and then allowed them to go home as they were all right,” said Dr Gillurkar, adding that no immediate side-effects have been observed in any of the three. The first three volunteers, who are Nagpur’s own corona warriors now, have been asked to follow their normal routine — wear masks, maintain Covid distancing and follow hand hygiene. They are not allowed to reveal their identity until the clinical trials are going on. Doctors will be constantly monitoring their health parameters. They will be called back on the 14th day for review tests. “During review, we will check whether their bodies have developed anti-bodies against the virus and, if yes, in what quantity. Provided everything goes well, they will be administered second dose of vaccine on 14th day,” said Dr Gillurkar. These participants have been administered the lowest strength dose of the vaccine. If it is found to be safe in them, higher doses will be administered to other volunteers from 14th day onwards. “On the 14th and 28th, we will take their blood samples and check whether antibodies have developed. This will decide success of the vaccine. Secondly, we will check them on 42nd and 104th day, and check how many antibodies are still in their bodies. This will decide the effective period of vaccine,” Dr Gillurkar added. Dr Gillurkar’s hospital is among the 12 sites selected by Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) for conducting phase I and II randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trials of Covaxin. It’s the only centre in Maharashtra state. They have more than 50 interested people registered for human trials. “Five more participants have been shortlisted. They will be administered dose on Tuesday and Wednesday. Trials will continue,” said Dr Gillurkar, adding that the initial results of human trials held in AIIMS-Delhi have been very promising. VACCINE IN THE MAKING - Three volunteers given first dose of Covaxin - It contains inactivated virus - Body’s immune system reacts to it and develops antibodies - If these antibodies are developed in ample quantity, vaccine is successful - Doctors will check amount of antibodies developed on day 14 and day 28 - Amount of antibodies will be checked on 42nd and 104th day and so on, to check longevity of immunity||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/housemaker-collegian-professional-get-first-covaxin-trial-dose-in-city/articleshow/77201151.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Bizmen hail deferment of consent from PPCB for operating factories||Ludhiana: A day after TOI reported state government’s orders to Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) to defer the requirement of renewal of consent by industrialists to run factories and other changes, businessmen are jubilant over the developments. According to them, with PPCB deferring the mandatory requirements, it is very relieving for them as in the wake of lockdown it is very difficult for them to complete the lengthy formalities to apply for the permissions from the PPCB. Welcoming the decision, Gurmeet Singh Kular, president, Federation of Industrial & Commercial Organisation (FICO), “PPCB has extended the validity of consent for operation, authorisation, registration and any other mandatory regulatory clearances till March 31, 2021. Also in order to ensure the participatory regulation compliances of environmental regulations, the industry, which was operating without the consent of the board have been given time till December 31 for clearances under the voluntary disclosure scheme (VDS) with applicable fee only from January 1, 2019, for MSME. Extension of the consents required by industry and introducing VDS for the factories, which did not apply for the consent are highly appreciable steps and thousands of units of Ludhiana will be benefited because of this, particularly at this point of time when the completing the formalities for consent has become difficult.” According to Upkar Singh Ahuja, President of Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU), “This is a big relief for the industries as not only the formalities to obtain new consent or extend the validity of existing consent a lot of paperwork and huge formalities were required to be fulfilled. So at this time of Covid-19 it’s not easy to go from one office to another frequently just to complete the formalities and therefore the decision to extend the existing consents and deferring the requirement of consent from the non-registered units will help the industries immensely.” Honey Sethi, organising secretary of CICU, “The PPCB’s decisions will prove to be highly beneficial for the industry and other departments too should replicate the similar practice and take measures to help the industry, which is struggling to even operate at this time of Covid-19 crisis. Departments should help the industry in these turbulent times by easing the procedures and extend deadlines. Not only will this help the existing industries, but will encourage the new investments in the state and save the Industry.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-hail-deferment-of-consent-from-ppcb-for-operating-factories/articleshow/77187449.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Chennai||Lightmen’s wives take up jobs as domestic help to make ends meet||Chennai: They illuminate cinema sets, but their lives are now steeped in darkness. With films shootings stopped and TV serial shoots allowed to resume only two weeks ago, wives of several lightmen have begun working as domestic help to keep the kitchen fire burning.“I don’t have any work now, so my wife took up the job of a maid. She earns around Rs3,000 a month. Even though the money is not sufficient, we are managing because there is no other option,” says KK Nagar resident P Ganesh, a lightman for more than five years.Ganesh would normally earn at least Rs25,000 a month, but the pandemic-imposed lockdown has left him with no choice. “I didn’t want my wife to work as a maid, but we have two children to take care of.”There are more than 2,000 such ‘experts’ working with various cinema and TV serial companies in the city. Some of them, particularly bachelors, are looking for other jobs, even for daily wages, but very few have been lucky. “We were unable to pay the rent. I searched for jobs for daily wages, but finding one was difficult. It was my wife’s suggestion that she would work as a maid in a nearby house. It finally worked out,” says K Shanmugham, who had been working in some TV serial projects till the lockdown began.B Xavier’s case is different. His wife wanted to look for a maid’s job in the neigbourhood, but his mother didn’t allow her to do the job. “My mother, who used to work as a maid, wanted to take it up again to make ends meet. She is 65 and I don’t want her to work but we have no other option,” says the man who has been working with an outdoor unit for more than 10 years. The pandemic has hit the entire film industry hard, but it is such workers who are the worst hit, says G Venkatesh Kumar, whose short film ‘Lightmen’ (2016) documents their plight. “Even in normal days, they (lightmen) are the ones who are least paid. We all are having a tough time, but these people are facing more challenges because they are not paid enough,” says Kumar. “It was while documenting their lives in 2016 that I understood their lifestyle and family problems. I'm sure these last four months would have made their lives miserable,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lightmens-wives-take-up-jobs-as-domestic-help-to-make-ends-meet/articleshow/77187993.cms||M T Saju
July 27, 2020||Jaipur||Govt assures guv of security,Cong calls off protest in Raj||Jaipur: Rajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra on Sunday held discussions with chief secretary Rajeeva Swarup and DGP Bhupendra Singh Yadav over the state’s preparedness to check the spread of coronavirus and about the security of the Raj Bhavan considering the Congress protest that was initially scheduled for Monday but later called off. The ruling party had been protesting to demand that the governor should accept the cabinet request to convene an assembly session. The request came amid claims by the party’s 19 dissident legislators, led by sacked deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, that the Ashok Gehlot government has been reduced to a minority. A statement released by the Raj Bhavan at 4.30pm on Sunday said the chief secretary and the DGP gave detailed information about adequate security arrangements made for the Raj Bhavan in the wake of Congress protest on Monday. Nearly two hours later, newly appointed PCC chief and cabinet minister Govind Singh Dotasra announced withdrawing the protest in Rajasthan. “As part of the ‘Save Democracy-Save Constitution’ campaign, the Congress will protest outside Raj Bhavans in all states except Rajasthan. We have sent a revised request to the governor and hope that he would grant permission to convene the session soon,” Dotasra tweeted at 6.18pm. The governor’s meeting with the executive heads created ripples in the state political circles, considering that chief minister Gehlot on Friday said he would not be responsible if people gherao the Raj Bhavan if the assembly was not convened soon. Gehlot had suggested that Mishra could be sitting on the cabinet request for the session due to pressure from the top (Centre). The opposition BJP had termed the CM's statement an act of ‘terrorising’ the Raj Bhavan but fell short of calling it a failure of law and order in the state. A 15-member BJP delegation, which included Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria and party state president Satish Poonia, had met the governor on Saturday and urged him to take ‘appropriate action’ to ‘protect’ the people. “Though Raj Bhavan's security is the duty of the government and police, the choice of words by the CM that ‘he will not be responsible’ created doubts and I demanded that the task be handed over to the CRPF,” Kataria told TOI on Sunday. “The Congress protest proposed at the Raj Bhavans on Monday is undesirable as a governor cannot be made to take decisions through pressure politics. Seeking an assembly session is a cabinet right but the governor can always ask why the request is being made. Once the government replies to these queries, I am sure the governor will convene the session,” he added. During the meeting with the chief secretary and the DGP, governor Mishra expressed concern over the spread of corona, saying that the positive cases in the state had grown three-fold since July 1. The governor said a new strategy would have to be considered to check the spread of the virus and directed the chief secretary to make serious efforts to tackle the disease. Rajasthan had 3,317 active cases of Covid-19 on July 1 and the figure reached 9,935 at 10.30am on Sunday. The state saw the highest spike in a single day with 1,120 new cases reported on Saturday. There have been 621 deaths due to Covid-19 in the state till 10.30am on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-assures-guv-of-securitycong-calls-off-protest-in-raj/articleshow/77188248.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 27, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Flex boards make a comeback in CZs||Thiruvananthapuram: With more wards in the city being declared containment zones, police are trying out-of-the-box measures to keep people from straying into these zones. The city police have erected signs boards made of flex (polyvinyl chloride flex boards), the use of which was banned by the state government last year owing to the environment issues it caused. City police officers said they took this step giving priority to people’s lives for the time being. Police started erecting flex boards with warning signs after 12 wards in the city were declared containment zones by the collector on Friday. According to city police officers, they decided to use warning signs to stop people from entering the high-risk zones knowingly or unknowingly. “Almost all the roads that lead to containment zones have been closed. It is not possible to deploy policemen at all these spots to stand guard. It is people’s responsibility too to voluntarily stay away from these places and hence, the department decided to use warning signs,” a senior police officer with the city police said. Flex boards were chosen so that it would not get damaged easily and the messages displayed on them would even survive heavy rain. The officer further said all people might not be keeping track of wards that are declared as containment zones. Since establishments like banks are still functioning, there are chances that people may venture into the containment zones. These warning signs are also targeted at guest workers from other states who may not be following the local developments. The flex boards contains the symbol of the Kerala Police and the words ‘containment zone’ and ‘no entry’ are written in bold red letters. At present more than 20 wards in the city are treated as containment zones as there are either high number of Covid-19 cases or sources of reported cases are unable to be traced. This includes the coastal wards that are considered as critical containment zones and wards located in the city such as Kowdiar, Pattom, Muttada, Chalai, Karamana, Thampanoor, Thycaud and also the Kazhakootam ward that houses major parts of the IT corridor of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/flex-boards-make-a-comeback-in-czs/articleshow/77186704.cms||Rejith Balakrishnan
July 27, 2020||Madurai||Theni govt school’s Miyawaki forest attracts birds, bees||Madurai: The Miyawaki forest that was created on one acre of land in a government school in Theni district last year has now grown into a lush green forest, where many birds, bees and butterflies can be spotted. It was last year that they had decided to create the Miyawaki forest as a tribute to the late G Namalvar, an environment activist and nature scientist, said A Mohan, the headmaster of the Siluvarpatti Government Model Higher Secondary school near Devadanapatti. As many as 900 saplings of guava, teak, mango, pomegranate, jamun, mahogany, nilavembu, neem and gooseberry among others were planted, by the students, at a distance of three feet from each other. A 40 x 40 feet open hall was constructed in the midst of this forest so that students could do their yoga classes there. Each student was entrusted with the duty of nurturing a sapling. Apart from the forest, they also planted trees in other parts of the school and now this school has 1,200 trees- one for each student. It was the National Green Corps, district instructor, P Perunchithiran, who was instrumental in establishing this forest in the school. As the sand inside the school was clayey, it was removed and the silt obtained while desilting a tank in the neighbourhood, with the help of the district administration, was deposited here. This soil was enriched with market waste for some time before the forest was saplings were planted on it. The headmaster also organized a drip irrigation system to ensure proper irrigation of the trees but the students had to remove the weeds and dry leaves from around the trees till they grew to a height. Now, the trees have grown tall. “There are so many bees as the trees have started flowering and we have decided to establish an apiary here later,” said Mohan. Various types of birds like parrots, mynas, greater coucal, doves, quails and cuckoos have started frequenting this forest and nesting on the bigger trees. “The children would definitely come back to an environmentally-rich school after the lockdown where they can learn about nature practically,” said Mohan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/theni-govt-schools-miyawaki-forest-attracts-birds-bees/articleshow/77188256.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Mayapuri on road to redemption, finally||NEW DELHI: By next year, the drainage system and roads in Mayapuri, which were damaged considerably from chemicals and fumes arising out of vehicles being dismantled in the open, would be completely revamped through a Rs 55.3 crore plan, Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) said. In 2018, after TOI had reported that not only were cars being cut in the open illegally, but several streets were blocked in the process at Mayapuri Industrial Area, National Green Tribunal (NGT) had ordered DPCC, DSIIDC and Delhi Police to clear the area and take action against offenders. DPCC, in its report submitted to NGT this week, said the entire area was now under CCTV surveillance to ensure that no shopkeeper was dismantling vehicles there. It added that a drainage and road revamp plan would be executed by DSIIDC in the next 12 months. “DSIIDC installed the CCTV camera network after it was commissioned by stationing it at Mayapuri police station. Police have reported no illegal activity in the area,” said the report. The report also stated that the lockdown had disrupted the comprehensive project of rehabilitation of roads and drains. “The work, being undertaken at a cost of Rs 55.3 crore, has been restarted and DSIIDC has assured to complete it within 12 months,” it added. Taking cognisance of TOI’s reports about the polluting activities and large-scale encroachment, NGT had last year directed DPCC and other authorities to act against violators and submit a detailed action-taken report. However, it had noted that while action on the ground should continue, scrapping of vehicles in an organised way was required for Delhi. “The current capacity to scientifically scrap vehicles is hardly adequate. The available statistics show that approximately nine million vehicles (75% two-wheelers) will be due for scrapping by 2020. By the end of 2025, the number is likely to reach over 21 million. Hence, there should be an appropriate mechanism to set up authorised recycling centres compliant with environmental norms. An SOP needs to be drawn up for the purpose as has been done for the authorised handling of hazardous waste,” NGT had said. A DPCC official said long-term measures had already been planned, while an NGT-appointed Special Task Force was also working on the scrapping policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mayapuri-on-road-to-redemption-finally/articleshow/77187999.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
July 27, 2020||Kanpur||Vikas Dubey ran amok prior to ambush, feared being killed in encounter, says aide's wife||KANPUR: Yet another video of Manu, wife of Shashikant Pandey, aide of slain gangster Vikas Dubey, surfaced on Sunday in which she recalls that Vikas ran amok prior to the ambush in Bikru on July 3 as he feared being killed in encounter by police. Manu, in whose house deputy SP Devendra Mishra was killed, says in the video, “After pumping bullets into CO Devendra Mishra along with Amar and Atul, Vikas was constantly shouting at the CO and hurling choicest abuses at him. Vikas shouted at the CO that he had come to kill him in encounter, but see the consequence.” Soon after his arrest in Ujjain, Vikas Dubey had also told police that he did not get along well with Circle Officer (CO) Devendra Mishra, as the latter always used to threaten him. Dubey had also revealed that SHO Vinay Tiwari had also told him that Mishra was against him. He also confessed that he had crude bombs also that were kept in his maternal uncle’s house and were used against the cops during the ambush. On receiving a tip-off about a police raid at his house from his sources, Vikas had asked all his aides to come to his house and bring along their firearms. Investigators also found that after firing stopped, Vikas and village head Ram Singh Yadav went around checking policemen in torch light and pumped more bullets on finding them alive. It also came to light that after killing eight policemen, Dubey had piled up five bodies one over the other and planned to set them on fire by pouring kerosene on them. He had stocked 50 gallons of kerosene for the purpose, but could not do so as the fear of being caught overpowered him and he fled with others. Villagers in Bikru say Vikas was in the habit of abusing and pointing guns at people on the slightest of arguments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/vikas-ran-amok-prior-to-ambushfeared-being-killed-in-encounter/articleshow/77187927.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 27, 2020||Ludhiana||With Bakr Eid a week away, less buyers for sacrificial animals||Ludhiana: As Bakr Eid is less than a week away, most of the people are not buying animals for sacrifice with the result that prices have fallen by around 40% as compared to last year. Meanwhile, traders say that they have never witnessed such low business ever before Eid. It will be celebrated in Ludhiana on August 1. The traders say that prices have fallen sharply this Eid as compared to previous ones. “I had bought about 40 sheep for sale for Eid and for a sheep that I bought for Rs 20,000 I am being offered between Rs12,000-Rs 13,000. This is because of the fact that there is hardly any demand for sacrificial animals this time around as people don’t have money because of slump in business due to lockdown, etc.” said Haji Ehsan, a prominent trader at Bakra Mandi. “Normally people start buying sacrificial animal for Eid about 20 days before the festival but this time around even as Eid is less than a week away, there are hardly any buyers. As per rough estimate the business is not even 10% of what it was last year. Of the stock I had brought for sale on Eid and till now I have managed to sell just seven,” said Haji Ehsan, a prominent trader at Bakra Mandi near Jalandhar bypass. The traders said that even as last year they had sold more than a thousand animals this year they don’t even expect 25% sales. “Last year, business was good and we had sold around 150 animals on Bakr Eid. However, this year even as we have brought 50 animals, we have not sold many as there are hardly any customers this year. This is because of curfew lockdown and slump in business of people as they don’t have money to buy sacrificial animals,” said Sham Lal, a trader from Chand Cinema area. He added that earlier traders from Uttar Pradesh and other states would come to sell animals in Ludhiana Bakra Mandi, but this year only around 10 such traders had come. Another trader asking not to be named gave an in depth view about the slump in business. “People have not earned anything for around four months and they are carrying on with their lives by spending on their reserve money. Under such circumstances, can we expect them to buy animal for Eid or survive in these trying times. Most of our customers (Muslims) are businessmen or those who are related to manufacturing sector, so as the lockdown hit the businesses and such sectors, so their spending power has decreased considerably,” said the trader. “Almost every year we do buy animal for sacrifice on Bakr Eid but may be this year we will not do sacrifice on the festival due to slump in businesses. We are donating money to needy persons living in the neighbourhood,” said Akram Ali, a real estate adviser of Dhandari area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/with-bakr-eid-a-week-away-less-buyers-for-sacrificial-animals/articleshow/77187451.cms||Shariq Majeed
July 27, 2020||Madurai||Private hosps treating non-Covid patients want testing norms eased||Madurai: About a week after all private hospitals, including mid-level ones and small clinics, were directed to remain open for the public, the footfall of patients is slowly returning to normalcy, but doctors said Covid-19 testing has been a hurdle for them in treating patients. Doctors at private hospitals which are authorised to treat only non-Covid-19 patients said that despite remaining open, they are forced to turn away any patient with fever and cold as they cannot get them tested for Covid-19.“More doctors and hospital staff who served non-Covid-19 patients have tested positive for Covid-19 than those serving in Covid-19 wards. Even in our hospital, a couple of hospital staff tested Covid-19 positive only last week,” said a duty medical officer at a mid-level hospital in Anna Nagar. Many of these smaller hospitals are forced to reduce their timings and function with limited staff since many of the staff are not turning up for work. “What is even more dangerous is that some patients, on hearing that we are sending away patients with fever, are taking paracetamol tablets to come and get treated for their other illnesses,” added the medical officer.Currently, except for around 5% of private hospitals, which include clinics in congested areas or those in which the doctor is aged above 60 with co-morbid conditions, all other hospitals are functional. Doctors in such hospitals said that while they are ready to treat more non-Covid-19 patients, testing norms do not allow them to get their patients tested on the doctor’s discretion so that they can be treated by them if their results are negative. “This is especially a concern for gynaecologists undertaking ANC cases. Recently, attenders of ANC patients tested positive at a hospital which was a risk for both patients and hospital staff. In such cases, both attenders and ANC mothers must be tested for Covid-19,,” said Dr Alagavenkatesan, president, Indian Medical Association (IMA) Madurai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/private-hosps-treating-non-covid-patients-want-testing-norms-eased/articleshow/77188258.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
July 27, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Arundhati Roy’s essay in Calicut University syllabus sparks row||KOZHIKODE: The inclusion of ‘Come September’, a lecture delivered by writer Arundhati Roy in 2002, in the Calicut University third semester BA English syllabus has sparked a controversy, with BJP state president K Surendran terming it anti-national and demanding immediate withdrawal of the article from the syllabus demanded registering a case against those responsible. Surendran also took strong exception to the introduction about Arundhati Roy in the textbook stating that ‘In 2008 she supported the cause of Kashmiri independence and saluted the unarmed struggle of Kashmiris against the armed Indian military’. “The said essay is taken from a speech which challenges the government’s policies and India’s Constitution. Ms Roy claims that the Indian state has unleashed terror on the non-violent struggle for Kashmir’s independence. Our poor students have been forced to learn a speech given to an anti-India audience against the Kargil war. This is akin to insulting those brave soldiers who gave up their lives to protect our territorial integrity,” Surendran said in a letter addressed to governor and chancellor Arif Mohammed Khan. He said in a press release that BJP will launch an agitation and will take legal action if the article is not withdrawn from the syllabus. The lecture ‘Come September’ was delivered by Roy on September 18, 2002, at the Lannan Foundation in Santa Fe, USA, which dealt on the broader theme of relationship between power and the powerless and how those who criticize the actions of the governments are being called ‘anti-nationals’. The text book ‘Appreciating Prose’ was edited by Murukan Babu C R, a former member of the CU syndicate and Abida Farooqui, assistant professor at Government Arts and Science College, Kondotty, and former member of syndicate and former chairperson of board of studies in English. The textbook was brought out by a private publisher. Syndicate member K K Haneefa said that academic bodies, including the board of studies, faculty and academic council had finalized the syllabus and added that the article could have been included in the prose paper as part of language study more than its content. “We will democratically look into any complaint that we receive. But it is undemocratic to raise protests saying that an article of a writer like Arundhati Roy cannot be taught in colleges,” he added. Meanwhile, Babu, co-editor of the textbook, said in a statement that his role and responsibility with regard to the textbook was minimal. It was limited to the capacity of being a co-author of the book which is, in fact, an edited compilation of the actual text of the lessons contained in the syllabus for the course, he said. “The philosophies, theories and opinions expressed in the text are not of the editors’ but of the authors themselves or general in nature. The editors of the textbook never had any mala fide intention to include or propagate ideas or messages arousing anti-national feelings,” he said, adding that an expert committee by the university may examine whether any observation or reference in the syllabus or textbook as such contains and fosters any anti-national sentiments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/arundhatis-essay-in-cu-syllabus-sparks-row/articleshow/77186679.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Soon, more testing facilities to counter delay in Covid response||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state health department has decided to ramp up Covid-19 testing in view of the increasing load on laboratories as well as the rising number of cases everyday. Even though the state is currently testing about 50,000 samples a day, the test results are getting delayed in various districts, causing anxiety among suspects. The state currently has 14 RT-PCR labs in the government setup while the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has approved seven private laboratories to conduct the tests. Apart from RT-PCR testing, the state has taken advantage of the 48 TrueNat testing centres located across the state to increase its Covid-19 testing footprint. A few weeks into the outbreak, the National AIDS Control Organisation accorded its permission to use HIV viral load testing labs in Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada for Covid-19 testing. Dr C Prabhakara Reddy, special officer, State Covid Control Centre, said that the state will set up four more RT-PCR laboratories and bring in 20 more TrueNat machines to enhance the testing capacity. “The new TrueNat machines are eight slot machines, which means that eight samples can be tested simultaneously. While the first few machines are two slot machines, the recently procured devices are four slot ones. The eight slot machines will significantly improve the testing capacity,” said Dr Reddy. The state had to send the first few Covid samples to laboratories outside Andhra Pradesh as it only got its first laboratory in the middle of March in Tirupati with a testing capacity of 90 samples a day. Soon, the state leveraged various testing modalities validated by the ICMR such as TrueNat testing, rapid antibody testing and rapid antigen testing. Andhra Pradesh collected its first sample on February 1. It took about 100 days for the state to reach the first five lakh testing mark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/soon-more-testing-facilities-to-counter-delay-in-covid-response/articleshow/77186688.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
July 27, 2020||Vadodara||BCA suspends training camp for first-class cricketers||Vadodara: The Baroda Cricket Association (BCA) has suspended its training camp for the Ranji cricketers. The decision was taken on Saturday after brother of one of the Ranji probables tested positive for Covid-19. The association said that it is taking all precautions to ensure that none of its players get infected with the virus. “We have suspended the training camp for two weeks after family members of one of the cricketers was detected positive for Covid,” said Ajit Lele, BCA secretary. The association had started training camp for Ranji cricketers at Motibaug Ground last month. Thirty cricketers were undergoing training sessions in the batch of 10 each and care was taken to maintain proper social distance among the players. The BCA, though, kept training camps of junior cricketers and women players suspended even after the lockdown ended. BCA officials said that the training camp was started to ensure that the senior cricketers remain fit ahead of the Ranji season. “But with Covid-19 virus spreading across the city, the camp may remain suspended for a longer time now,” a BCA official said. BCA had to recently conduct its annual general meeting (AGM) online and seek votes by postal ballots after some of its members raised the safety issues due to Covid pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bca-suspends-training-camp-for-first-class-players/articleshow/77186486.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Kargil Vijay Diwas observed at Victory at Sea War Memorial||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Eastern Naval Command (ENC) observed the 21st anniversary of Kargil Vijay Diwas on Sunday at ‘Victory at Sea’ War Memorial on the Beach Road. A 50-men Guard of Honour was paraded on the occasion. The Guard performed the ‘Salami Shastra’ and Vice Admiral Atul Kumar Jain, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of ENC placed the floral wreath, which was followed by the observance of two-minute silence. Apart from the Vice Admiral, various defence and civil dignitaries attended the solemn wreath-laying ceremony. Police commissioner Rajiv Kumar Meena, GVMC commissioner G Srijana, Vice Admiral VK Namballa (Retd), president of Navy Foundation and G Satyanand, Zilla Sainik Welfare officer paid homage to the bravehearts of Kargil War. On this day, the nation commemorates the sacrifices of soldiers who lost their lives during the Kargil War when India successfully recaptured the covertly occupied outposts inside the Line of Control 21 years ago. Ever since the victory in Operation Vijay, July 26 is celebrated as the ‘Kargil Vijay Diwas’ every year. The ‘Victory at Sea’ War Memorial, built in 1996 at RK Beach Road, is upgraded from time to time. The recent additions are the national emblem atop the memorial tower in October 2019 and a mural, created last week, depicting missile attacks by Indian Naval ships on the night of December 4, 1971 along with routing of Indian missile boats during 1971 India-Pakistan war.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/kargil-vijay-diwas-observed-at-victory-at-sea-war-memorial/articleshow/77186700.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Incorrect contact details of Covid patients vex officials||VISAKHAPATNAM: After Bengaluru and Hyderabad recently reported instances of Covid-19 positive patients who could not be traced, it is the turn of Andhra Pradesh to struggle to locate nearly 10 per cent of those who tested positive but have not responded to calls or messages, said sources in the health department. Speaking to TOI, Andhra Medical College principal Dr PV Sudhakar said while the scale of the problem is far smaller than what happened in Bengaluru, there have been cases in which patients’ addresses have not matched their records, but the issues were eventually resolved. Only those who test positive are informed and officials use information provided in patients’ applications to contact them, Dr Sudhakar said. “People share their Aadhaar number. In many cases, people do not live at the address mentioned in the Aadhaar card. We request people who come for Covid-19 tests to share the correct residential address and contact details for communication,” Dr Sudhakar said. However, those who did not respond immediately were eventually traced, said sources in the health department. A number of such instances have been reported from Tirupati, Guntur and Kurnool towns. Speaking to TOI, a senior professor of Andhra University at the department of information technology said the government should introduce a One Time Password system to register the contact number of those who come for a Covid-19 test to reduce errors in noting numbers. The government may also ask for LPG receipts or electricity bills as address proof instead of Aadhaar cards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/incorrect-contact-details-vex-officials/articleshow/77186707.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
July 27, 2020||Goa||Fishermen net bumper catch of solar shrimps in Goa||COLVA: A week before the 45-day ban on mechanised fishing comes to an end, traditional fishermen in Colva netted around 350kg of solar prawns. This is the first catch and in the coming days, many traditional fishermen along the coastline will venture out for their share of shrimps. For the traditional fishermen, this is a crucial period to fetch some revenue as once the trawlers venture into the sea, they harvest most of the shrimps, a fisherman said. “Solar shrimps are seasonal and they surface for around a fortnight and then disappear,” the fisherman added. As the word spread that prawns were available at the Colva beach, a large number of people rushed to purchase their share at Rs 250 per kg. The remaining quantity of solar shrimps were taken to the Colva market where they were sold out within no time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fishermen-net-bumper-catch-of-solar-shrimps/articleshow/77188008.cms||Nisser Dias
July 27, 2020||Nagpur||Man refuses to steal to settle goon’s debt, ends life||NAGPUR: Rohit Asole, a man in his 20s, a resident of Gopal Nagar, ended life by taking a plunge into Gandhisagar Lake. He left behind a suicide note mentioning that he was committing suicide driven by the fear of a goon who wanted him to steal or else settle his dues of Rs2,000 for sheltering and providing him food. Asole’s body was fished out of the lake on Saturday. It’s learnt Asole worked as a menial labourer but was out of work due to the lockdown. He was sheltered by a man, and provided food and snacks for a couple of days. As per the suicide note retrieved from him, the man wanted Asole to help him steal some iron scrap from Matey Chowk to Ram Nagar. After Asole refused to assist the man in the theft, the man was angry with the victim and wanted him to pay Rs2,000 or face the consequences. A petrified Asole decided to end his life as he had no money to pay the man. Ganeshpeth police have registered a case of accidental death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-refuses-to-steal-to-settle-goons-debt-ends-life/articleshow/77188000.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Kanpur||Divers fail to trace body of technician||Kanpur: Divers failed to trace the body of the lab technician Sanjeet Singh Yadav even after five persons were arrested and confessed they had murdered and dumped his body in Pandu river. The family of the deceased alleged it seems the statements of the accused were false as the Sanjeet’s body could not be traced yet. “We demand narco analysis test of all the five accused. The investigation should also be handed over to CBI as we are not satisfied with police probe,” said Ruchi, sister of Sanjeet while talking to reporters on Sunday. She added the river has knee-deep water despite onset of monsoon and it’s likely the body may have been dumped somewhere else to wipe out evidence. Sanjeet’s mother Kusuma Yadav said, “On July 23 & 24, policemen came and informed that my son has been killed. When we asked them to give his body, they said search is on in Pandu river. We demand narco analysis of accused and CBI investigation into the case.” “It has been three days, since PAC divers were asked to fish out the body from the river, but it is still missing,” said a relative. “It seems the accused gave misleading information. They should be grilled again,” he added. Teams of police and PAC divers searched up to eight km downstream of the river connecting Fattepur Gohi and Uriyara villages. Police and PAC divers resumed search as a motorboat was also roped in on Sunday morning, but failed to trace the body. “We will resume search on Monday morning, and hope we find the body,” said Circle Officer Govindnagar Vikas Pandey. Sanjeet, a lab technician, was kidnapped from Barra area on June 22, and murdered by his abductors. According to police, the kidnappers killed Sanjeet on June 26-27, a few days after abducting him, and dumped his body in Pandu river. Police arrested five people, including two friends of Sanjeet, in the case. His family alleged kidnappers had escaped with Rs 30 lakh ransom in the presence of police. On July 23, five accused Gyanendra, Kuldeep, Neelu, Ramji, Preeti were arrested. They revealed they had taken a room on rent at Ratan Lal Nagar to keep the captive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/divers-fail-to-trace-body-of-technician/articleshow/77187917.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 27, 2020||Jaipur||Record single-day spike of 1,132 new Covid-19 infections in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: For a second straight day, the single-day jump in Covid-19 cases touched a new high of 1,132 infections, showing no signs of slowing down in the state. In the past two days, the state reported 2,252 cases, which accounts for 6% of the total cases reported since the first one was reported on March 3. On Saturday, the state saw 1,120 new infections. The Covid tally reached 36,430 on a day when the state government had issued orders to form committees to ensure proper treatment and care of patients. As many as 11 persons died of the virus on Sunday. Sawai Madhopur and Sirohi reported their 11th casualties, Ajmer reported its 35th death, Baran reported its 5th while three died in Bharatpur, taking its casualties to 49. Three died in Jaipur, which took its toll to 182. Tonk reported its third fatality. With new infections in the state soaring, the recovery rate has taken a further dip and the graph of active cases has moved up quickly. For every 100 confirmed cases, 71 have recovered from the virus. This was 80 on June 4. However, for every 100 confirmed cases, 27 are currently infected in the state as active cases touched a new high of 9,852 cases. In the last one week, the number of new infections has grown by an average of 3% every day, which shows that the infection has not slowed down, but has instead picked up pace. A majority of the districts are now grappling with Covid in the state, especially Jodhpur which zoomed past the 6,000 mark. The district now has 6,066 cases and is the first in the state to do so. It took 21 days for Jodhpur to double the cases from 3,000 to 6,000. However, in the same period, Alwar cases have increased four times. The district, which had 703 cumulative cases 21 days ago, now has 2,914. Except Banswara, Bhilwara and Sirohi, all other districts have contributed to the biggest single-day jump reported in the state on Sunday. The districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (239), Alwar (150), Bikaner (82), Jaipur (71), kota (68), Jhalawar (50), Nagaur (49), Bharatpur (49), Pali (45), Dholpur (37), Ajmer (36), Churu (36), Udaipur (33), Bundi (29), Barmer (28), Karauli (23), Sikar (20), Jhunjhunu (14), Jalore (11), Baran (11), Sawai Madhopur (9), Rajsamand (7), Dausa (6), Dungarpur (6), Ganganagar (5), Chittorgarh (5), Jaisalmer (5), Hanumangarh (3), Pratapgarh (2), Tonk (2) and one from another state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/record-single-day-spike-of-1132-new-infections-in-state/articleshow/77188253.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Jodhpur||Record single-day spike of 1,132 new Covid-19 infections in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: For a second straight day, the single-day jump in Covid-19 cases touched a new high of 1,132 infections, showing no signs of slowing down in the state. In the past two days, the state reported 2,252 cases, which accounts for 6% of the total cases reported since the first one was reported on March 3. On Saturday, the state saw 1,120 new infections. The Covid tally reached 36,430 on a day when the state government had issued orders to form committees to ensure proper treatment and care of patients. As many as 11 persons died of the virus on Sunday. Sawai Madhopur and Sirohi reported their 11th casualties, Ajmer reported its 35th death, Baran reported its 5th while three died in Bharatpur, taking its casualties to 49. Three died in Jaipur, which took its toll to 182. Tonk reported its third fatality. With new infections in the state soaring, the recovery rate has taken a further dip and the graph of active cases has moved up quickly. For every 100 confirmed cases, 71 have recovered from the virus. This was 80 on June 4. However, for every 100 confirmed cases, 27 are currently infected in the state as active cases touched a new high of 9,852 cases. In the last one week, the number of new infections has grown by an average of 3% every day, which shows that the infection has not slowed down, but has instead picked up pace. A majority of the districts are now grappling with Covid in the state, especially Jodhpur which zoomed past the 6,000 mark. The district now has 6,066 cases and is the first in the state to do so. It took 21 days for Jodhpur to double the cases from 3,000 to 6,000. However, in the same period, Alwar cases have increased four times. The district, which had 703 cumulative cases 21 days ago, now has 2,914. Except Banswara, Bhilwara and Sirohi, all other districts have contributed to the biggest single-day jump reported in the state on Sunday. The districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (239), Alwar (150), Bikaner (82), Jaipur (71), kota (68), Jhalawar (50), Nagaur (49), Bharatpur (49), Pali (45), Dholpur (37), Ajmer (36), Churu (36), Udaipur (33), Bundi (29), Barmer (28), Karauli (23), Sikar (20), Jhunjhunu (14), Jalore (11), Baran (11), Sawai Madhopur (9), Rajsamand (7), Dausa (6), Dungarpur (6), Ganganagar (5), Chittorgarh (5), Jaisalmer (5), Hanumangarh (3), Pratapgarh (2), Tonk (2) and one from another state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/record-single-day-spike-of-1132-new-infections-in-state/articleshow/77188541.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Mangaluru||Demand for Ganesha idols remains undiminished despite Covid crisis in Dakshina Kannada||MANGALURU: The spike in Covid-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada has not diminished the demand for Ganesha idols in the city. There are nearly a dozen traditional sculptors in the city who make about 700 Ganesha idols every year. The work begins months before the festival. Many of them claimed orders were placed much earlier and that the pandemic has not deterred Ganesha worshippers from celebrating the festival. Speaking to TOI, Vinayak Shet, a Ganesha idol maker with 33 years of experience said more than 100 families have already placed orders for idols and work has begun at his workshop in Car Street. Similarly, he said, all idol makers have been receiving orders from joint families and Sarvajanika Ganesha Samitis that are all set to celebrate the festival on August 22. “Traditional joint families in the city who live in ancestral houses will not refrain from celebrating the festival. Several Samitis in the city that install Ganesha idols in pandals have also decided to celebrate the festival without much pomp. Instead of huge Ganesha idols of 7ft and above, they have decided to install idols of about 3 – 4ft. Decades ago, we started the tradition by preparing very few idols for families. This year, we have been preparing more than 100 Ganesha idols of various sizes from 6inch to 4.5ft,” he added. Another sculptor Ramachandra Rao, who has been engaged in making Ganesha idol at Mannagudda for the past 60 years, said majority of the families in the city and samitis have been making preparations to celebrate the festival without much splendour. “While Ganesha idol making in our family began 90 years ago by my father Mohan Rao, currently the tradition is being carried forward by me and my brothers Prabhakar Rao, Sudhakar Rao, Mahesha Rao and Ankush from fourth generation. We make around 220 – 225 Ganeshas and this year too we have received orders from families and samitis from Kodialbail, Kulshekhar, Bejai, Karangalpady and other places,” he said adding that some families will also be celebrating the festival on October 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pandemic-has-not-shrunk-demand-for-ganesha-idols-in-city/articleshow/77186717.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Ajmer||Record single-day spike of 1,132 new Covid-19 infections in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: For a second straight day, the single-day jump in Covid-19 cases touched a new high of 1,132 infections, showing no signs of slowing down in the state. In the past two days, the state reported 2,252 cases, which accounts for 6% of the total cases reported since the first one was reported on March 3. On Saturday, the state saw 1,120 new infections. The Covid tally reached 36,430 on a day when the state government had issued orders to form committees to ensure proper treatment and care of patients. As many as 11 persons died of the virus on Sunday. Sawai Madhopur and Sirohi reported their 11th casualties, Ajmer reported its 35th death, Baran reported its 5th while three died in Bharatpur, taking its casualties to 49. Three died in Jaipur, which took its toll to 182. Tonk reported its third fatality. With new infections in the state soaring, the recovery rate has taken a further dip and the graph of active cases has moved up quickly. For every 100 confirmed cases, 71 have recovered from the virus. This was 80 on June 4. However, for every 100 confirmed cases, 27 are currently infected in the state as active cases touched a new high of 9,852 cases. In the last one week, the number of new infections has grown by an average of 3% every day, which shows that the infection has not slowed down, but has instead picked up pace. A majority of the districts are now grappling with Covid in the state, especially Jodhpur which zoomed past the 6,000 mark. The district now has 6,066 cases and is the first in the state to do so. It took 21 days for Jodhpur to double the cases from 3,000 to 6,000. However, in the same period, Alwar cases have increased four times. The district, which had 703 cumulative cases 21 days ago, now has 2,914. Except Banswara, Bhilwara and Sirohi, all other districts have contributed to the biggest single-day jump reported in the state on Sunday. The districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (239), Alwar (150), Bikaner (82), Jaipur (71), kota (68), Jhalawar (50), Nagaur (49), Bharatpur (49), Pali (45), Dholpur (37), Ajmer (36), Churu (36), Udaipur (33), Bundi (29), Barmer (28), Karauli (23), Sikar (20), Jhunjhunu (14), Jalore (11), Baran (11), Sawai Madhopur (9), Rajsamand (7), Dausa (6), Dungarpur (6), Ganganagar (5), Chittorgarh (5), Jaisalmer (5), Hanumangarh (3), Pratapgarh (2), Tonk (2) and one from another state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/record-single-day-spike-of-1132-new-infections-in-state/articleshow/77188542.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man left wife to find a job, abandoned her||Ahmedabad: A woman from the Chandkheda filed a complaint on Saturday against her husband who had left her two years ago after she pressurized him to find a job. In her FIR the woman stated that she wed a man based in Anand town in December 2017. Her in-laws used to harass her and sought dowry from her parents. She said that her husband and her sister-in-law had a quarrel over her sister-in-law’s affair with a married man. After that the complainant and her husband were forced to leave their house, states the FIR. Later, her husband used to blame her for leaving his parents’ house. On June 19, 2018, her husband left their home in Chandkheda telling her that he would go and find some job. But he did not return. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-left-wife-to-find-a-job-abandoned-her/articleshow/77187459.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Udaipur||Record single-day spike of 1,132 new Covid-19 infections in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: For a second straight day, the single-day jump in Covid-19 cases touched a new high of 1,132 infections, showing no signs of slowing down in the state. In the past two days, the state reported 2,252 cases, which accounts for 6% of the total cases reported since the first one was reported on March 3. On Saturday, the state saw 1,120 new infections. The Covid tally reached 36,430 on a day when the state government had issued orders to form committees to ensure proper treatment and care of patients. As many as 11 persons died of the virus on Sunday. Sawai Madhopur and Sirohi reported their 11th casualties, Ajmer reported its 35th death, Baran reported its 5th while three died in Bharatpur, taking its casualties to 49. Three died in Jaipur, which took its toll to 182. Tonk reported its third fatality. With new infections in the state soaring, the recovery rate has taken a further dip and the graph of active cases has moved up quickly. For every 100 confirmed cases, 71 have recovered from the virus. This was 80 on June 4. However, for every 100 confirmed cases, 27 are currently infected in the state as active cases touched a new high of 9,852 cases. In the last one week, the number of new infections has grown by an average of 3% every day, which shows that the infection has not slowed down, but has instead picked up pace. A majority of the districts are now grappling with Covid in the state, especially Jodhpur which zoomed past the 6,000 mark. The district now has 6,066 cases and is the first in the state to do so. It took 21 days for Jodhpur to double the cases from 3,000 to 6,000. However, in the same period, Alwar cases have increased four times. The district, which had 703 cumulative cases 21 days ago, now has 2,914. Except Banswara, Bhilwara and Sirohi, all other districts have contributed to the biggest single-day jump reported in the state on Sunday. The districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (239), Alwar (150), Bikaner (82), Jaipur (71), kota (68), Jhalawar (50), Nagaur (49), Bharatpur (49), Pali (45), Dholpur (37), Ajmer (36), Churu (36), Udaipur (33), Bundi (29), Barmer (28), Karauli (23), Sikar (20), Jhunjhunu (14), Jalore (11), Baran (11), Sawai Madhopur (9), Rajsamand (7), Dausa (6), Dungarpur (6), Ganganagar (5), Chittorgarh (5), Jaisalmer (5), Hanumangarh (3), Pratapgarh (2), Tonk (2) and one from another state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/record-single-day-spike-of-1132-new-infections-in-state/articleshow/77188540.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19 positive woman commits suicide in Warangal||HYDERABAD: A 60-year-old woman, who came to know that she was Covid-19 positive, committed suicide by consuming pesticide at Hasanparthy, Warangal on Saturday. Hasanparthy police said that the women worked as a sweeper in a government department and had gone to the primary health centre (PHC) along with 19 others for the Covid-19 test. She had decided to take the test as she was suffering with cold and fever. “On Saturday at around 2 pm, an Asha worker came to her and informed her that she was Covid-19 positive. The worker also told her to be in home quarantine,” Hasanpathy inspector Sridhar Rao told TOI. The woman went to her home first but later went out and bought pesticides. She consumed it and fell on the road. The locals, on seeing her fall on the road, came to her rescue and rushed her to local hospital, where she was declared brought dead. Officials said that she did not leave any suicide note but the family suspect that she might have taken the extreme step after getting dejected that she contracted coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-ve-woman-commits-suicide/articleshow/77188261.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Gurgaon||Covid case load crosses 8,600||GURUGRAM: The city on Sunday reported 121 new cases of Covid-19, taking the tally to 8,612. The health department said that 170 people recovered on Sunday, taking the total number of recoveries to 7,408. No Covid-related death was reported in the city on Sunday. So far, 120 people have died of Covid, of whom 82 had comorbidities. So far, 99,753 people have been put under surveillance in the district. The health department has sent 93,903 samples for testing, of which 83,623 turned out to be negative, while the results of 284 are still awaited. On Sunday, 10 people were put under government quarantine. The district has a total of 1,084 active cases, of which 919 are under home isolation. The health authorities were able to collect 1,668 samples in the past 24 hours for antigen and RT PCR tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/covid-case-load-crosses-8-6k/articleshow/77188005.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Varanasi||‘Ramp up surveillance, testing, contact tracing to curb Covid’||VARANASI: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath visited Varanasi and Ballia districts on Sunday to review the preparedness for tackling Covid-19 spread in Varanasi and Azamgarh divisions. CM Yogi has asked Banaras Hindu University authorities to increase the number of beds in its Level-3 Covid-19 facility to 300 and also to resume non-Covid outdoor patient department at its hospitals. Yogi also took serious note of the spread of the pandemic in Ballia district jail and poor facilities at L-2 Covid hospital in Ballia. Presiding over a review meeting at BHU’s central hall, the CM asked BHU and district administrations to improve their coordination for better treatment of Covid-19 patients. Asking BHU authorities to increase beds up to 300 in L-3 facility in the super specialty wing, he said senior faculties of Institute of Medical Science, BHU should take rounds in Covid-19 wards. He also asked BHU officials to restart non-Covid-19 OPDs. CM said BHU is capable of serving people of not only east UP but adjoining states like Bihar also. He said the state government is ready to extend all facilities to BHU in this regard. He urged BHU officials to increase the number of RTPCR tests and said that BHU should set an example for other institutions by utilising this opportunity. Yogi told officials to focus on improving surveillance and said the same strategy had helped the government in minimising encephalitis casualties in the state. The CM asked officials to engage minimum two teams of health department in each of 90 wards of Varanasi to conduct door-to-door survey and rapid test of persons having any Covid-19 symptoms as it will help in providing timely treatment, curbing the mortality rate as well as spread of the infection. Earlier, while reviewing the Covid-19 preparations in Azamgarh, Ballia and Mau districts at a meeting with officials in Ballia, Yogi questioned officials why a temporary jail was not set up despite directives to all districts in this regard. The CM asked DIG Azamgarh range Subhash Chadra Dubey to identify the reason for spread of Covid-19 in Ballia jail. He directed officials to ensure 1,000-1,500 tests in Ballia and Azamgarh and 1,000 in Mau per day. Emphasising on intensifying contact tracing and door-to-door surveys, Yogi told officials to increase beds in Level-2 facility and ensure availability of oxygen at 50 beds in L-1 facilities. He also directed officials to set up an L-2 facility in Mau at the earliest. The CM asked health director Dr Rajendra Kapoor to streamline all arrangements within 48 hours to ensure cent percent contact tracing in all three districts with collection of proper details. Yogi told officials to provide quality food, television and newspapers to patients in Covid-19 facilities. He also reviewed arrangements of ambulances, payment to staff, integrated Covid command centres, surveillance system and data feeding. Yogi directed the divisional commissioner and DIG Azamgarh range to stay in one district in jurisdiction every day to monitor work instead of staying at headquarters only. The CM told officials to intensify drive against those not wearing mask and improve CCTV network in and around Covid facilities to keep vigil. Yogi sought explanation from officials for not starting RTPCR lab in Azamgarh so far. He assured officials they would get 10,000 antigen test kits every tenth day. He also asked officials to focus on Ballia and Rasda area to check virus spread. The CM also asked officials to ensure availability of food, health facilities and fodder in areas hit by floods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ramp-up-surveillance-testingcontact-tracing-to-curb-covid/articleshow/77187940.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Delhi||SIM swap fraud: East Delhi businessman loses Rs 20,000, one held||NEW DELHI: When an east Delhi businessman’s mobile number stopped working all of a sudden recently, he contacted the service provider. He was shocked to know that someone had got issued a new SIM card using his documents after reporting theft of his mobile. The next day, Ahuja received another shock when he found out that money had been withdrawn from his account fraudulently. Police have arrested a credit card agent who was running this racket. The accused has been identified as Pradeep Kumar (27), a resident of Loni, Ghaziabad. He would collect documents from people and misuse those to make quick money using this modus operandi, DCP (northeast) Ved Prakash Surya said. The victim had come to know about a new SIM card being issued on June 14 and the cyber cell of northeast district led by ACP Naresh Khanka had started to track the accused after a complaint was lodged. An inquiry showed that Rs 9,500 and Rs 11,283 were withdrawn from the victim’s credit card in separate transactions. The bank concerned informed the cops that money had been transferred using MobiKwik app. The team visited the store from where the duplicate SIM was issued and obtained CCTV footage. Extensive technical investigation led to the identification of the suspect. During interrogation, the accused disclosed that he used to work in a company in Noida, which deals in verification of applicants pertaining to credit and debit cards. He used to verify the applicants’ documents and addresses. Many people are suspected to have been duped by the gang. The arrested accused, who posed as an authorised agent, would easily get card details from unsuspecting people. Later, he would prepare duplicate Aadhar cards and obtain duplicate SIM cards to dupe the credit/debit card applicants. Efforts are on to nab other members of the gang.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sim-swap-fraud-e-delhi-bizman-loses-rs-20k-one-held/articleshow/77188004.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Covid in town, first day at college has to wait||CHENNAI: The transition from school to college for thousands of students is likely to be, thanks to Covid-19, in the digital realm this year, robbing them of the campus experience. "I want to pursue BCom and have applied to top colleges. I heard from seniors about how great college will be and so I’m excitedly waiting for reopening. We’ll be disappointed if we begin with online classes where you can only interact with teachers and not get to know your classmates and make friends," said G P Mukilan. With admissions still on, many feel they are already missing out on the ‘college experience’. "I was hoping to visit some campuses before applying but now it is not possible. I’m also anxious about how I’ll be able to cope up with college level studies. Studying everything online would be scary, especially in my first year," said S L Jenny, a BSc (computer science) aspirant. K Sindhu of Madurai, keen on pursuing BSc in visual communication, was waiting to travel to Chennai and Coimbatore to look at campuses. "We won’t be able to mingle with our seniors to get to know the college better." K R Gurusakthi, who is awaiting online classes at Pune-based Suryadatta Institute of Fashion Designing to begin, says that by the end of Class XII, her friends and she only talked about joining a new college, meeting new people, and exploring opportunities. "The current situation upsets me, but I’m still positive and hoping that I won’t miss out on any experiences." Teachers say the ‘initiation phase’ will be different this time. "For us too, it will be a challenging and new experience if colleges reopen with online classes. During the first semester, the focus is more about getting to know each other and building a rapport, rather than academics. It is also the time when students slowly begin to open up to us. This may not be the same with online classes," said M Rajesh, assistant professor, zoology, The American College, Madurai. Those who have joined universities abroad are also in new territory. "My brother who pursued higher studies in the US used to tell me how great the college was, the friends he made, and the exposure he got. I was really looking forward to it too. But then Covid-19 happened. Now I’m eagerly waiting for things to get normal and for flights to start operating so I can be the first to get there," said Cedric HJ Emmanuel, who will study physics at Michigan State University. Vibhu Ravindran, who joined University of California at Berkeley to major in physics, was looking forward to meeting professors in person, learning from them and interacting with his peers. "But none of that is going to happen for a while," said. Although excited that online classes will begin next month, he is worried about the timings. "The teacher interaction happens only during office hours, but for me that’s past midnight." (With inputs from Aditi R)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-in-town-first-day-at-college-has-to-wait/articleshow/77188262.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
July 27, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Fresh offence against Mangesh Kadhao||NAGPUR: City police on Sunday registered a fresh offence at Bajajnagar police station against political activist Mangesh Kadhao for allegedly extorting interest on an amount lent by him to a victim. It’s learnt that Kadhao, already booked in more than a half a dozen case, was threatening the victim to cough up Rs30 lakh to release the plot he had mortgaged for lending him the amount. He had also retained a blank cheque of the victim. Despite having received the amount and substantial interest, Kadhao was not willing to release the plot or return the cheque. The case has been now transferred to crime branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fresh-offence-against-mangesh-kadhao/articleshow/77188009.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Soon, an app to guide FYJC aspirants on filling e-forms||MUMBAI: With the Covid-19 pandemic forcing first-year junior college (FYJC) admissions to go completely online, the state education department will soon launch a mobile app to help students fill application forms with ease. The app will be available for Android and Apple phones. Registrations for the centralised admission process began on Sunday with over 57,571 FYJC aspirants signing up by the end of day one. The application forms will be available for students starting August 1. The part two of the forms and the schedule ahead will be announced after the declaration of SSC results. The education department will also upload on its website a list of guidance centres for students who do not have access to the internet. “The mobile app will help reach a large number of students, but if there are any students who don’t have a smartphone or access to the internet, they can reach out to their schools or the guidance centres for help,” said Rajendra Ahire, deputy director of education, Mumbai. Students will have to upload their documents as well. “State board students will only need their seat number as the system will already have their other details. For non-state board students, these details will have to be entered manually. Students will have to also upload the relevant certificates if applying under a quota. The forms will be confirmed by the school or guidance centres,” he added. The department is also preparing colleges for e-admissions. “Once the merit lists are announced, colleges’ websites will have to list the fees and an online payment mode. The department will share selected candidates’ forms with the colleges who must give provisional admission on fee payment. Admissions will be confirmed once colleges resume and can verify the documents,” Ahire said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/soon-an-app-to-guide-fyjc-aspirants-on-filling-e-forms/articleshow/77195740.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
July 27, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Soon, an app to guide FYJC aspirants on filling e-forms||MUMBAI: With the Covid-19 pandemic forcing first-year junior college (FYJC) admissions to go completely online, the state education department will soon launch a mobile app to help students fill application forms with ease. The app will be available for Android and Apple phones. Registrations for the centralised admission process began on Sunday with over 57,571 FYJC aspirants signing up by the end of day one. The application forms will be available for students starting August 1. The part two of the forms and the schedule ahead will be announced after the declaration of SSC results. The education department will also upload on its website a list of guidance centres for students who do not have access to the internet. “The mobile app will help reach a large number of students, but if there are any students who don’t have a smartphone or access to the internet, they can reach out to their schools or the guidance centres for help,” said Rajendra Ahire, deputy director of education, Mumbai. Students will have to upload their documents as well. “State board students will only need their seat number as the system will already have their other details. For non-state board students, these details will have to be entered manually. Students will have to also upload the relevant certificates if applying under a quota. The forms will be confirmed by the school or guidance centres,” he added. The department is also preparing colleges for e-admissions. “Once the merit lists are announced, colleges’ websites will have to list the fees and an online payment mode. The department will share selected candidates’ forms with the colleges who must give provisional admission on fee payment. Admissions will be confirmed once colleges resume and can verify the documents,” Ahire said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/soon-an-app-to-guide-fyjc-aspirants-on-filling-e-forms/articleshow/77187460.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
July 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Admission starts today, college officials urge students to apply online||Ludhiana: Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, several college authorities have given both online and offline options for students to apply this admission season. There are no registration charges for all three government colleges — Government College for Girls, SCD Government College and Government College East. These government colleges already switched to the online registrations in 2015. The registration process starts from today, and the last date to register online is August 8 for government colleges. Few other colleges have already started the registration process for admission and help desks have been set up for students’ assistance, but all details are available online too. According to the academic calendar released by the Panjab University, admissions for ongoing classes will start from July 27 and online classes will start from August 3 for old students. However, for first year, the admission process will be on from August 3 to August 28 and online classes will begin on September 1. Dharam Singh Sandhu, principal of SCD Government college, said, “Prospectus containing detailed information regarding admission and eligibility conditions, course intake, reservation policy, fee structure, criteria for admission and general instructions for admission as available on college website, www.scdgovtcollege.ac.in. Candidates have to apply online for admission through college website. Admission helpline and enquiry number is 0161-2444988. students can call between 9am and 2pm only. They can also email queries to scdldhhelp@gmail.com. Admission to PG classes will only be after the decision is taken on the Assessment of Undergraduate Classes by Panjab University, Chandigarh.” Arya College’s Savita Uppal said: “The college is going with online admission process. The online admission form and e-prospectus of main college and girls section are available on college website. Online fee deposit facility is also available.” Arvinder Singh from Gujranwala Guru Nanak Khalsa College said, “In view of Covid-19, we need to be prepared to face every challenge and we must take all possible steps to turn every challenge into an opportunity to keep pace with the times. Getting an education through the use of technology is both a need and a demand of our time.” Mukti Gill, principal of Khalsa College for Women, said, “ Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, it is important to maintain social distancing and follow protocols. Forms are available both online and offline, and students are applying through both modes.” Free coaching for BEd entrance test Manpreet Kaur, principal of Pratap College, said, “ This year because of the pandemic, admissions and all academic activities are done online. This year we will provide free online coaching for BEd entrance test being conducted by Punjabi University. The coaching will start after the notification of entrance test. For MEd. and DElEd classes, there is direct admission in the college. Registration process has started. Students can contact on help line number for further details.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/admission-starts-today-college-officials-urge-students-to-apply-online/articleshow/77187463.cms||Mehak Jain
July 27, 2020||Jaipur||Jhalawar youth dies in police custody, probe ordered||KOTA: A-28-year-old youth, who was arrested under various sections of the Arms Act on Saturday afternoon, died allegedly due to police torture in the lock-up of Khanpur thana in the evening on the same day. The family of the deceased accused the police of beating him to death. Police have lodged a case under Section 176 of the CrPC and launched a probe into the matter. While SHO Kamalchand Meena of the thana has been suspended, the entire staff has been sent to police lines. The judicial probe has been ordered into the alleged custodial death following a demand from his family. “It's not proven as of now that he died in police custody, as on record, he was not in custody. However, an inquiry under Section 176 of the CrPC by the judicial magistrate is being carried out in the matter,” Jhalawar SP Kiran Kang Sidhu said. The youth, identified as Rajesh Meena, a resident of Raiger Basti in Khanpur town of Jhalawar district, was taken to a hospital after his condition deteriorated, ASP Jhalawar Rajesh Yadav claimed. “The youth was an alcoholic and would frequently beat his mother, wife and other members of his family. On Saturday morning, his mother lodged a report against Rajesh. When he was picked up, the police found a sharp weapon on him,” Yadav said. Meanwhile, family members claimed that the cops had beaten and thrashed him severely. “My brother was in sound health and policemen killed him,” the brother of the deceased claimed. Family members, accompanied by local BJP MLA Narendra Nagar, staged a protest in Khanpur town demanding a case of murder be lodged against the CI and staff of the police station. Following rounds of negotiations, family members agreed to the post-mortem after they were assured of suspending the SHO and taking action against two cops allegedly involved in the toruture. A compensation of Rs 5 lakh and facilities under government schemes have also been offered to his 18-month-old daughter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jhalawar-youth-dies-in-police-custody-probe-ordered/articleshow/77188259.cms||Rajiv Saxena
July 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Himalayan rudraaksh’s cousins in Gujarat's Vasna||AHMEDABAD: A rudraaksh-like species of trees are blossoming in Ahmedabad, answering the prayers of those who need the beads in this holy month of Shravan. Rudraaksh trees are usually found in the Himalayas. But two trees of a species that produce beads similar to the original are thriving in the Vasna barrage compound. The caretaker of the compound planted them about a decade ago. Now they produce thousands of prayer beads every year. Nanubhai Rabari, the caretaker, said these trees produce ‘panchmukhi’ prayer beads, which are considered best for religious rituals. “The trees began yielding beads about five years ago,” said Rabari, 63. “I have donated these to most of the temples in Ahmedabad, as well as to people who want them.” He said that these are the only two trees of their kind in Ahmedabad. Rabari said that the beads have to be soaked in ghee for about ten days before they get their deep red colour. “The beads are used by most Shiva temples in Ahmedabad, along with other temples as well,” Rabari said. Apart from being used for chanting mantras, rudraaksh beads are also worn as ornaments. Some are highly prized depending on their shape and number of segments in the seeds. Dr Hemant Patel, the dean and head of the horticulture department, Anand Agricultural University, said original rudraaksh cannot be grown in Gujarat as the climate is not suitable. “Those grown in Vasna are of a very similar species. And the shape of their seeds is not too different from those of the rudraaksh,” he said. Another agricultural scientist said that rudraaksh trees could be grown in compounds of a few temples in the state, but none of the noted shrines in Gujarat have them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/himalayan-rudraakshs-cousins-in-vasna/articleshow/77187567.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Fishing harbours go empty, fish prices skyrocket in Vizag markets||VISAKHAPATNAM: With supply of marine and inland fish drastically reduced, fish prices skyrocketed at all harbour markets in Visakhapatnam on Sunday. Traders said that fish supply at landing centres has reduced over the last few weeks as fishermen are not venturing into the seas after many of them tested positive for Covid-19. Arjili Dasu, secretary of District Fishermen’s Youth Welfare Association, said, “There are over 100 positive cases in fishing villages in Visakhapatnam. Under such circumstances, fishermen are not venturing out to sea.” “This has led to a scarcity in the market which has led to an increase in price. The price would increase further unless supply restores,” Dasu added. The Visakhapatnam harbour, which usually sees huge crowds especially on weekends, wore a deserted look on Sunday morning. The number of vendors in the market was few and far between. Ummidi Yallarao, a wholesaler, said that news of fishermen being affected with the virus has spread and there is an apprehension among traders that fishing harbours could be sites of infection. A few traders too have tested positive, he added. The price of pomfret, which usually ranges between Rs 600 and Rs 800 per kg in landing centres sold for Rs 1,500 to Rs 1,800 a kilogram on Sunday. “Transportation costs have gone up significantly since the lockdown. This is not the right time to buy and sell fish. We are hardly making any profit,” Yallarao told TOI. Fisheries associations however maintain that stopping fishing activities is not a good idea especially at the beginning of the season. They have sent a set of proposals to the fishing department to ensure that no overcrowding takes place in harbours and that people visiting markets follow Covid-19-related standard operating procedure (SOP). But the fisheries department doesn’t seem to be in a position to implement the SOP at the moment as many department officials too have tested positive for Covid-19 and are currently in quarantine, said Arjili Dasu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/fishing-harbours-go-empty-fish-prices-skyrocket/articleshow/77186731.cms||Arpit Basu
July 27, 2020||Bareilly||Inter-state thieves’ gang busted, three held, Rs 2.42 lakh cash, valuables seized||Bareilly: A team of Moradabad police on Saturday arrested three members of an inter-state gang wanted in several cases of house break-ins and theft and seized Rs 2.42 lakh cash and valuables from their possession. The trio — Imran Saify and Javed Saify from Meerut and Narendra, alias, Rohit, from Gautam Buddh Nagar — were arrested from the Zero Point under Majhola police station limits, following a tip-off. Police said the gang was involved in several cases of theft. In 2015, the gang committed theft of Rs 72 lakh in Chattisgarh, and then they stole Rs 3.29 in Haryana’s Bahadurgarh. Moradabad superintendent of police (city) Amit Kumar Anand told TOI, “We have seized around Rs 2.42 lakh cash, an LED TV, silver coins, a wristwatch and equipment used in breaking locks and impounded a Swift car from the possession of the accused, who have been lodged in jail.” “Gang members would first conduct recces in posh localities and then target locked houses. The accused are history-sheeters and have been involved in several cases of theft in different states and have been booked by various police stations in Gurugram, Faridabad and Raipur, among other places,” added the SP. On July 21, the gang broke entered the house of a bank employee in Sector 10 of Buddhi Vihar Colony and fled with Rs 97,000 cash, jewellery, and an LED television. A case was registered under sections 380 (theft in dwelling house, etc) and 454 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against unidentified persons. Further information about the past criminal records of the accused is being gathered and effort is on to nab other members of the gang, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/inter-state-thieves-gang-busted-three-held-rs-2-42-lakh-cash-valuables-seized/articleshow/77185199.cms||Maria Khan
July 27, 2020||Jaipur||Forest guard mowed down by ‘mining mafia’ in Sariska||JAIPUR/ALWAR: A forest homeguard was mowed down by a tractor belonging to suspected mining mafia inside Sariska Tiger Reserve (STR) on Sunday after he attempted to stop them along with his colleague. The guard was rushed to a hospital where he succumbed to injuries. Cops are yet to arrest the accused, but have seized the tractor. This is not the first time that forest officials have been attacked inside STR. The deceased has been identified as Keval Singh. He was in his mid-40s. STR DFO Seduram Yadav said, “On Sunday, the guard along with his colleague went for patrol in Baldevgarh checkpost area of the tiger reserve where they saw certain individuals illegally transporting bajri from the forest area. When the guards tried to stop them, they mowed him down with a tractor.” A case has been registered at Tehela police station in Alwar. “We will get the sketch of the accused after taking details from the other guard who was with the deceased at the time of the incident. If he can give us names of persons who were behind the attack, we will arrest them at the earliest,” Alwar SP Tejaswini Gautam said. This is not the first time that villagers have attacked forest officials. On January 25, a forest ranger of STR Jitendra Chaudhary had to run for his life after being attacked by villagers. The villagers attacked him after he and his 10-member team confiscated 18 sheeps and 30 goats for illegal grazing in the tiger reserve. On December 15, 2019, senior forest officials were allegedly manhandled by villagers in the tiger reserve. Following this, a case against 20 identified accused was registered at the Bansur police station. The reserve is spread across 1,281 sq-km area and is divided into six ranges. There are just 108 forest guards, which is far less than its sanctioned strength of 132. Moreover, with the menace of frequent attacks in Sariska, unarmed forest guards often struggle to protect the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/forest-guard-mowed-down-by-mining-mafia-in-sariska/articleshow/77188260.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
July 27, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS MLA’s PA lands behind bars for attacking woman doctor at MGM Warangal||WARANGAL/HYDERABAD: A TRS legislator’s personal assistant (PA) was arrested late on Sunday, about 24 hours after he allegedly abused and attacked a lady doctor on duty at Warangal’s Mahatma Gandhi Hospital over delay in treatment, leading to massive protests by 300 doctors throughout the night. Witnesses and police said a patient, identified as Sai Krishna, went to MGM hospital after suffering an injury to his leg on Saturday evening. A preliminary investigation revealed that a needle was stuck inside his leg and required surgery. Around 9.30 pm, Sai Krishna’s relative, Chaitanya, who is a PA to Husnabad MLA, V Satish Babu, started to question a PG doctor, Sowmya Sada, about the delay in attending him. The doctor asked them to wait since a doctor from another department was expected to come, but Chaitanya repeatedly claimed that he is the PA of an MLA, launched a verbal assault on the lady doctor and allegedly hurled a chair at her. Subsequently, all the medical staff withdrew from their service, assembled in front of the hospital and staged a protest. Around 6 am, they called off the strike after senior doctors of the hospital assured strict action against Chaitanya, besides assuring security to all medical staff. Token protests also took place on Sunday, but work was unaffected. “As per complaint given by PG doctor Sowmya, Chaitanya used objectionable language besides hurling a chair in the emergency ward,” an official said. The other doctors had to come to the rescue of Sowmya and later police was called, who took Chaitanya into custody, he added. A case was registered against Chaitanya by Matwada police on the charges of restraining a government official on duty and he was taken into custody, before being arrested. The Telangana Doctors Federation condemned the incident and demanded more security at the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-mlas-pa-lands-behind-bars-for-attacking-woman-doc-at-mgm-warangal/articleshow/77188265.cms||Srinath Vudali
July 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Tribals hold protest, demand fish seed||Visakhapatnam: A few tribals, who are dependent on fishing in Tatipudi reservoir, staged a protest in their boats in the reservoir on Sunday. They demanded the state government release fish seed into the reservoir and form a fisheries’ society for them. The fishermen said they had to part with their lands in Chilakalagadda panchayat in Anantagiri mandal due to construction of the reservoir in 1972. “Since then, we have been eking out a living by fishing in the reservoir. In the past, 200 tribal fishermen contributed Rs 500 each for fish seed. Officials from the ITDA or the fisheries department are turning a deaf ear to repeated requests,” they said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tribals-hold-protest-demand-fish-seed/articleshow/77186742.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Ancient stone monuments found in Idukki’s Anchuruli||IDUKKI: Prehistoric stone monuments have been discovered in Anchuruli in the catchment area of Idukki. Dating back 2,500- 3,000 years ago, the megaliths, including menhirs (large stones in an upright position), cists (burial chambers) and dolmens (a type of stone monument) were found after the water level receded in Pezhumkandam Anchuruli area of the reservoir. Researchers of the Archeological and Historical Conservation forum who discovered the megaliths claimed they are remnants of a human settlement that lived about 3,000 years ago in the region. “The topography, soil and Neolithic remains need to be seriously studied,” said Rajeev Puliyoor, principal of BEd College, Nedumkandam, one of the members in the research team. Last month, researchers had discovered rock carvings, known as petroglyphs, in Kallipara Mountains in Thoppramkudi in the district.  When the water level increases in the dam, these historical evidences will be under the water, he said, pointing to the urgent need to conduct more studies. Historian and former vice-chancellor of Mahatma Gandhi University Rajan Gurukkal said the remains seem to be slabs of collapsed dolmens. “One is a menhir, rather intact. These are Iron Age megalithic burial monuments, not remains of habitation. They are prehistoric but not of Stone Age, and are not new to archaeology. They are in plenty in different parts of the district, especially in the high ranges. Dating suggested can be right, but generally, experts assign the monuments an antiquity of 2,500 years.” He also pointed out that excavations under the supervision of the ‘alleged’ organizations are illegal, unless licensed by the Archaeological Survey of India. “Their preservation initiatives are welcome though,” said Gurukkal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ancient-stone-monuments-found-in-idukkis-anchuruli/articleshow/77186737.cms||Sandeep Thomas
July 27, 2020||Gurgaon||Despite lockdown, 4 found training in gym; owner booked||GURUGRAM: A gym owner has been booked for allegedly opening the gym despite the government orders against such activities during the pandemic. The gym is located in Khandsa and was shut down late Friday night, a police officer said. According to the complaint filed by a policeman from Shivaji Nagar police station, they received a tip-off that four men were working out in a gym called Fitness Gym near Khandsa. Following the tip-off, a team reached the spot and conducted a raid. “We found the gym to be functional and the four men were working out despite the government orders asking such places to be shut,” the police officer said in his statement. He added that none of the people within the premises were wearing masks thereby increasing the chances of spreading the virus and infecting others. An FIR was registered at Shivaji Nagar police station under sections 51 of the Disaster Management Act, 120-B (punishment of criminal conspiracy) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant) under IPC. This is not the first such instance when an FIR has been registered against a gym during the pandemic. Reeling under financial crisis due to the two-month long lockdown, a gym owner called some customers for working out inside the gym, despite the government restriction on the function of gyms and spa, and landed in legal trouble in June. Police, after receiving a call, had raided the gym and booked 17 persons, including the gym owner, for the violation of lockdown norms. Dheer Katariya (32), owner of Mould Gym spread over two floors of a building in Dayanad Colony, said he was struggling to meet his expenses as his only source of earning was closed for the last two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/despite-lockdown-4-found-training-in-gym-owner-booked/articleshow/77188011.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Mangaluru||Amid Covid surge, over 200 patients discharged on coast||Mangaluru/Udupi: Covid-19 cases continue to rise unabated in Udupi and Dakshina Kannada (DK), with 368 people testing positive in the two districts on Sunday. While DK recorded 199 cases, Udupi accounted for 169 cases. The two districts also saw 10 Covid-19 related fatalities, with the toll crossing the 100 mark in DK and touching 16 in Udupi. The source of infection in a majority of the 199 cases reported in DK district—83 to be precise—is under investigation. Deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said that 73 people were diagnosed with influenza-like illness (ILI), 31 are primary contacts of infected patients, 10 people were diagnosed with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and two were international travellers. With 90 patients getting discharged during the day, the active cases stood at 2,471, against total positive cases of 4,811. Seven of the eight deaths in DK were reported on Friday, and one on Thursday. The district administration is awaiting confirmation of reasons for these deaths from the district level expert committee, Sindhu said. All the patients had severe and extreme comorbidities, as per details given in the district bulletin. Barring a 56-year-old man from Puttur, the remaining were from Mangaluru, and all of them were admitted to private hospitals for treatment. With 169 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the total number of positive cases in Udupi has gone up to 3,388, and with the discharge of 129 patients, there are now 1,241 active cases in the district. The health authorities as on date have discharged 2,133 patients. The district bulletin indicated the number of Covid-19 related fatalities stood at 14 as against 11 on Saturday. The district health authorities subsequently gave information about the death of two more patients at a private hospital, taking the total toll to 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/amid-covid-surge-over-200-patients-discharged-on-coast/articleshow/77186749.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Doctors protest as health dept transfers 800 of their seniors to hospitals across Telangana||HYDERABAD: In a bid to tackle the surge of Covid-19 cases in districts, the state health department has deputed over 800 senior resident doctors to various government hospitals in a hurried manner without conducting general counselling. As a result, a large number of PG doctors who are to report to duty on Monday, are in two minds on whether to take up the post or to report and then do a vanishing act. The reason is many PGs have been deputed in remote corners of the state where they have no support system, accommodation or help and have to report at short notice. At least 120 of the PGs have already expressed their unhappiness over the one-year deputation given without asking for their preferences. In a letter written to the health secretary, PG doctors from Telangana batch 2017-2020 stated, “Many PGs are in a dilemma about reporting and even more are considering to not join duties after reporting because of the extreme personal difficulties associated with unexpected work in a far off place without support. This is a bad outcome for both the government health department and for us PGs too.” While the PG doctors have clarified they are ‘more than willing to render our services to the government in this unprecedented crisis’, the manner in which the allotment was carried out has left them inconvenienced. “It will cause undue hassles for hundreds of PGs and their families. Such random and forced allocations without considering preferences, domicile and fairness appears unjust and high-handed to all of us. Instead of facilitating and easing our process, the decision has jolted and has discouraged many of us,” the letter added. The PGs have urged health authorities to allow a mutual transfer of allotments between PGs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/doctors-protest-as-health-dept-transfers-800-of-their-seniors-to-hosps-across-state/articleshow/77188270.cms||Amrita Didyala
July 27, 2020||Thane||Kalyan: Two siblings, 17-year-old relative bludgeon ‘possessed’ uncle, grandmom to death||KALYAN: Two siblings from Ambivali near Kalyan, along with a 17-year-old close relative, allegedly bludgeoned their 50-year-old uncle and grandmother to death with bamboos during an exorcism on the behest of a self-proclaimed godman on Saturday. Police have arrested Kavita (27) and Vinayak Tare (22), the teenager, and the ‘godman’, Surendra Patil (35). The deceased were Pandarinath Tare, a landlord from Atali village, and his mother Chandubai (72). After his brother’s death several years ago, Pandarinath had taken in his widow Sangita (40) and her two children—Kavita and Vinayak. Police said that concerned about her daughter’s ‘abnormal behaviour’, in June, Sangita took her to Patil who told her that she had divine powers. He then frequented their house and convinced the family that Pandarinath and Chandubai were possessed by evil spirits. The double murder came to light when Pandarinath’s father Shivram, who was visiting a relative in Bhiwandi, realised that he had forgotten to take his diabetes medicine. He called up Pandarinath, but got no response. Worried, Shivram called up a relative, Devendra Bhoir. Bhoir told cops that around 4.30pm, when he and his mother reached Pandarinath’s residence, no one answered the doorbell but they could hear screams from inside. He peeped through the window and saw some ritual was on and Kavita, Vinayak and the teen beating Pandarinath with bamboos. Bhoir told the police that when he asked them to stop, Kavita and Vinayak told him that they were “divine beings driving out the evil spirit”. Police said Sangita and Pandarinath’s wife Reshma were also in the room. Bhoir rushed to Patil’s house and asked him to urge the siblings to stop the ritual. In his police statement, Bhor said around 8.45pm, Patil came to his house and told him that Pandarinath was dead. Bhoir alerted the Khadakpada police and rushed there. Cops found Pandarinath’s body and took Chandubai, who was also thrashed, to hospital, but she died en route. Khadakpada police senior inspector Ashok Pawar said the trio has confessed to the beating on Patil’s instructions. Police will also record the statements of Sangita and Reshma. Additional commissioner of police Dattatrey Karale said the accused have been booked under the Indian Penal Code for murder and also under the Maharashtra Prevention and Eradication of Human and Other Inhuman, Evil and Aghori Practices and Black Magic Act. The teen and Vinayak are HSC dropouts, while Kavita is a commerce graduate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/2-siblings-17-year-old-relative-bludgeon-possessed-uncle-grandmom-to-death/articleshow/77187489.cms||Pradeep Gupta
July 27, 2020||Kanpur||State government determined to reduce Covid mortality rate to one per cent in city: Chief secretary||Times News Network Kanpur: Following the surge in Covid-19 related deaths being recorded these days in the city, the state government is determined to reduce the mortality rate up to one per cent in Kanpur, said UP chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari. Addressing a media conference here on Sunday evening, he said that the target was zero mortality rate from coronavirus. “To achieve the target, the health department, the medical college and the district administration will have to act together with one force. There is a need to strengthen contact tracing and surveillance and for this purpose surveillance teams were increased from 462 to 1008”, Tiwari said. He said for admitting corona patients in hospitals and testing their contact tracing, including family members, the integrated command control would work round the clock which would be supervised daily for two hours by the district magistrate and the chief medical officer. Both the government and the private labs had been directed to inform all positive cases to the district magistrate and the CMO who would decide to shift the patient within two hours at level-1,-2 and 3 hospitals as per the condition of a patient, he added. The chief secretary said from Sunday the capacity of sample testing has been doubled and corona mobile units have also been pressed in the city to achieve the target of 3000 sample testing. The mobile vans would be stationed at four places of the city and their main focus would be on door- to-door survey and contact tracing. In a specific direction, the chief secretary said that serious patients, suffering from high blood pressure, kidney or heart problems, should be covered under the antigen test and surveillance teams should be directed to admit them to hospitals without any delay. Earlier in the meeting with the officials of district administration and health department here on Saturday, he reprimanded them for attending the meeting without any preparation. He said that the report of vice- principal of the GSVM medical college Prof Richa Giri gave clear indication that without any doing screening and planning, patients had been sent to the Covid hospital. Even no screening of serious and precarious patients had been done, he added. He was surprised to know that under door- to-door survey, only one team was collecting data of five houses per day. He asked the officials to fix the target of 40 houses per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/state-government-determined-to-reduce-covid-mortality-rate-to-one-per-cent-in-city-chief-secretary/articleshow/77187901.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Don’t sacrifice cows on Bakrid, says Telangana home minister Mahmood Ali||HYDERABAD: Telangana home minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali has appealed to the Muslims not to sacrifice cows during Bakrid festival on August 1. He said the state is known for secularism where all religions are treated with mutual and equal respect, and added that Bakrid should be celebrated in the same spirit. Stating that cows should not be sacrificed as Hindus worship them, he said Muslims can offer goats and sheep as sacrifice. “Secularism existed even during the Nizam and Qutb Shahi rule with the four minarets of the historic Charminar seen as symbols of Hindu, Muslim, Sikh and Christianity, all having equal respect,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mahmood-ali-dont-sacrifice-cows-on-bakrid/articleshow/77188266.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Covid-19: Krishna district surpasses Kurnool’s death rate||VIJAYAWADA: Krishna district registered 332 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday. The district now has 5,580 cases, of which 4,060 patients have recovered and been discharged and 1,376 patients are still being treated. Five new deaths were reported on Sunday taking the death toll to 144. Krishna district, which is eighth in the state in terms of cases, is facing a problem with the number of Covid-19 deaths. Kurnool had the highest death rate in the state with 1.4%. On Sunday, Krishna surpassed Kurnool with a 2.58% death rate. The opposition parties, mainly TDP, has taken this opportunity to raise questions about the quality of treatment at the Vijayawada Government General Hospital. Meanwhile, all meat shops and fish markets were closed on Sunday and illegal stocks destroyed by VMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/krishna-surpasses-kurnools-death-rate/articleshow/77186752.cms||Venu Lanka
July 27, 2020||Vadodara||WRMS opposes bullet train project||Vadodara: The Western Railway Mazdoor Sangh (WRMS) working committee has decided to request the chairman of Railway Board to drop the Ahmedabad-Mumbai bullet train project and save Rs 1 lakh crore so that economic health of railways can be improved. In the virtual working committee meeting held on Friday, 57 member attendees paid homage to all the railway employees who have died in the Covid-19 pandemic and also condemned the recent move of Western Railway (WR) asking nearly 400 railway families to vacate 21 buildings of suburban section between Churchgate and Virar in Mumbai. The committee has passed resolutions demanding ex-gratia payment to railway employees who died in Covid-19 pandemic. WRMS general secretary J G Mahurkar highlighted that outsourcing and privatization being done in railway will weaken the railways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/wrms-opposes-bullet-train-project/articleshow/77186519.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||TOI conclave to help reboot Andhra Pradesh||The Covid-19 pandemic has taken its toll on businesses globally and locally in Andhra Pradesh. While this black swan event has thrown up unforeseen challenges, it has also unlocked new opportunities for those who are ready to innovate and adapt to change in this new normal. As the economy grapples with the Covid-19 induced slowdown and is trying to find its feet in the new order, The Times of India is bringing together top business leaders across sectors to deliberate on the unprecedented challenges, throw light on the opportunities created by Covid-19 and chart out a roadmap to reignite Andhra Pradesh’s business engine as part of a virtual conclave ‘Reboot Andhra Pradesh: Making Andhra Pradesh Future Positive’. The TOI conclave, which is being presented by Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited in association with Visakhapatnam Special Economic Zone, Eastern Power Distribution Company of Andhra Pradesh, Coastal Local Area Bank and TNR Talent High School, will bring together over 40 speakers, including top industry leaders, domain experts and government representatives, across key sectors such as manufacturing, healthcare, agriculture & food processing, real estate and education through two sessions daily spanning four days. The four-day virtual conclave will be flagged off on Monday morning by Andhra Pradesh industries, commerce, IT, skill development & training, infrastructure & investments minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy with a session on ‘Getting AP’s economy firing on all cylinders’, along with AP Inc’s top guns – AP-Transco chairman and MD & secretary for energy department Srikant Nagulapalli, Sri City Pvt Ltd founder & MD Ravindra Sannareddy, Visakhapatnam Port Trust deputy chairman PL Haranadh, RINL chairman and MD Pradosh Kumar Rath, International Egg Commission chairman & Srinivasa Farms VC & MD Suresh Chitturi and CII AP chairman D Rama Krishna. The inaugural will be followed by an afternoon session on manufacturing, one of AP’s growth engines, with a session titled ‘Gearing up for change in the post-Covid era’ that will see Visakhapatnam SEZ development commissioner ARM Reddy, Kia Motors sales and marketing head Manohar Bhat, Mondelez India director (integrated supply chain) Nandkumar Kulkarni, Toray Industries India Pvt Ltd chairman Shigekazu Suenaga and Arjas Steel Pvt Ltd commercial director Ramaswamy Visweswaran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/toi-conclave-to-help-reboot-andhra-pradesh/articleshow/77186778.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Dehradun||Kalapani issue an irritant, needs to be resolved soon, says Nepal’s ambassador to India||Nilambar Acharya, the Nepalese ambassador to India, in an exclusive interaction with TOI on Friday, termed the Kalapani issue an "irritant", that needs to be resolved soon. Acharya, who has also served as Nepal’s law and justice minister and the country’s envoy to Sri Lanka, gave detailed email responses to queries put to him by TOI on issues like the sudden action by Nepal to include the Kalapani areas in its map at a time when India and China are in a stand-off, whether Nepal was acting at the behest of China, PM Oli’s remarks on Ayodha, Nepal’s expectations from India, and more. Excerpts: There is still so much goodwill in India for the people of Nepal. At a time when India was busy fending off the Chinese in Ladakh, many feel the inclusion of Limpiyadhura, Lipulekh and Kalapani in Nepal's map was something Kathmandu could have done without. Your comment. It is well known that Nepal and India have a long tradition of friendly relations. These relations are multi-layered and multi-dimensional, comprising interactions between the two governments, private sectors and people to people connection. When relations are so vast and deep between two close neighbours, it is natural that issues and complications arise at times. It is not realistic to expect that relations can always be totally problem-free. However, what is important is the question of how promptly and how appropriately we address these issues and do not allow them to fester. Nepal has been wanting early settlement of the issue. Given that the major segment of Nepal-India boundary alignment has been agreed and strip maps have been jointly prepared, resolution of the small remaining portions would not be difficult if we were prepared to tackle the issue. On various occasions in the past, both countries had acknowledged that the question of boundary alignment in Kalapani area needed to be resolved. Contrary to this understanding, announcements of unilateral acts like road construction triggered noise. The only way to close the chapter is to address the issue and settle it. The matter is as simple as that. Though there was disagreement between the two countries on these areas for a long time, it had never come to this. What is Nepal thinking? As you rightly mentioned, this is not at all a new issue and Nepal’s claim over Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura is known to the Indian side. These areas lie east of Kali River and hence, belong to Nepal as per the Treaty of Sugauli. It is also known that Nepal has been consistently emphasising on the resolution of the outstanding boundary issue through friendly talks. In fact, as recently as in December last year, the government of Nepal approached the Indian side to set up the dates for the meeting of the foreign secretaries who have been mandated to talk on this issue. That was immediately after the government of India issued a new political map. Dates of the meeting could not be fixed and the issue remained. Majority of our boundary alignment is settled. Let’s find settlement on the remaining two small segments and declare complete resolution of the Nepal-India boundary. When that happens, a long-standing irritant of Nepal-India bilateral relations would be left behind once and for all. Indian politicians have claimed that New Delhi tried to speak with Kathmandu, while your government said they attempted to speak to India but nothing worked. What happened actually? As I mentioned earlier, immediately after the government of India published the new political map in November 2019 depicting Kalapani area in it, we reiterated our concern. We also reminded earlier understanding at the highest political level between the two countries that the outstanding boundary issues would be resolved through dialogue. In our subsequent communications, we proposed dates for the foreign secretary-level talk. This has already come to public knowledge that we did not receive a response on setting the dates for the talk. Who responded and who did not is not the main question now. The main thing is what we would do next. On our part, we have made it clear that there is no alternative to dialogue to find a mutually acceptable settlement of this irritant. And we look forward to an early meeting at the foreign secretary-level to talk on the outstanding boundary questions. What are the confidence-building measures at work currently between the two countries? Nepal-India relations are not confined to one particular issue or one particular sector. Issues are transient; relations go on. No doubt the boundary question at Kalapani sector has been an irritant that would warrant an early resolution, but our vast relations are not confined to that. There are multiple areas where our engagements and co-operation continue. There are at least two dozen bilateral mechanisms between the two countries pertaining to different areas of engagements. Current Covid-19 related travel restrictions may have caused delay in holding the meetings of some of these important mechanisms, but they will soon resume hopefully. We have established mechanisms for the engagements at ministerial level and at the level of highest political leadership as well. Media, especially the social media, is abuzz with Nepal’s closeness with China. Some also view Nepal’s current stand-off with India as being due to pressure from Beijing. Your view on this? Responsible media has a great purpose of informing people, raising awareness and empowering citizens, not misinforming, misleading and misguiding the situation. Nepal is a sovereign country and has its own independent outlook in foreign policy and external engagements. It’s true that we have close relations and a vast magnitude of co-operation with both our big neighbours and with other friendly countries in the world. But we do not cultivate relations with one country at the expense of the relations with the other. In today’s interconnected world, engagements are not a zero sum game. So, the insinuation about Nepal acting under other countries’ pressure is totally baseless and does not hold ground. For the past 20 years, we have wanted to settle the boundary issue with India through dialogue, which did not happen. When the issue is kept alive, it comes up. How can you simply ignore the entire genesis of the issue and when the years-old issue is reiterated, you say it is done on somebody else’s pressure? Such dismissive and superficial excuses will take us nowhere. India and Nepal have had 'roti-beti' ties and have close social, cultural and religious links. Will not souring of political relations impact these ties? I have already said, Nepal-India relations are not confined to one particular issue or particular area. The scope and depth of these relations are immense and the traditional cultural proximity as well as the adherence to the sacrosanct principles of sovereign equality, mutual respect and mutual benefit provide solid foundation to these relations. It is also true that when a difficult phase comes up in our bilateral relations due to one issue or the other, its impact on public sentiment cannot be denied. Moreover, the question of boundary is strongly associated with people’s emotions. Responsibility of the governments and conscious sections of the societies on both sides is, therefore, two-pronged — first it is our responsibility that we address the irritant of bilateral relations in a timely and appropriate manner and second, we ensure that a particular issue does not bulge out to spoil the wider spectrum of neighbourly relations. PM Oli has recently made a few statements which have not gone down well in India like his claim that New Delhi was trying to topple his government as well as his remarks on Ayodhya. Your reaction? There was no intention otherwise in the statements of the Prime Minister. Concerning remarks on Ayodhya, our foreign ministry has clarified that the Prime Minister was simply stating the importance of further study and research on the vast cultural geography represented by the Ramayana. He spoke at a programme organised to mark the birth anniversary of the poet Bhanubhakta Acharya, who had translated the Ramayana into Nepali language. His remarks were not linked to any political subject. There is no need to engage in the game of exaggeration. How do you view calls by certain sections in Nepal to restore monarchy in the country? Do you think that would ever be feasible? The democratically-elected constituent assembly had already settled, while promulgating the Constitution, the question of the kind of polity arrangement Nepal would have. Monarchy is, therefore, a matter of history now and there is no question of returning to the past. Finally, how do you see India-Nepal relations in future? What are Nepal's expectations from India as its closest neighbour? As close neighbours, our two countries are bound to remain friends. Our societies evolved together as civilisations with shared characteristics. This civilisational connection will continue to remain as a strong pillar of our relations. So will the connection of nature and geography. Over 6,000 rivers and rivulets originating from Nepal’s Himalayas contribute to the larger portion of the water mass that flows in the river Ganga. In normal times, thousands of people from both sides cross the international border every day for various pursuits including employment, medical treatment, education, pilgrimage and tourism. All these speak of the strength of the undercurrent of Nepal-India relations. Today, as India grows economically and marches towards becoming a more prosperous society, we feel enthused. Prosperity on one side of the frontier will logically have positive impacts on the other side. Given the size and scale of Indian economy and given the depth of our economic connection, we see an opportunity in India’s economic rise. We, therefore, desire the best of relations with India and also expect that India would be forthcoming in addressing the outstanding issues that have remained there for years and gained heat every now and then. We expect that some of the big-ticket undertakings like Pancheshwar Multiple Project are implemented without delay in order to set a positive precedent that our two countries can do big things together. We expect that we would be able to work out a more enabling arrangement on bilateral trade so that the huge trade deficit is bridged. We also need to enhance transit and connectivity further. We likewise expect that there is no delay in addressing the issues like inundation that directly impact the people. Following the direction from our leaders, a joint technical team has identified a number of measures to be taken to reduce the inundation havoc on the Nepal side in the bordering area. These measures need to be sincerely and expeditiously implemented. Structures on one side of the border should not cause submergence of homes and farmland on the other side. Further, Nepal’s expectation is to advance the 21st century Nepal-India relations based on the principles of sovereign equality, mutual respect and mutual benefit. These are natural expectations of a friendly neighbour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kalapani-issue-an-irritant-needs-to-be-resolved-soon-says-nepals-ambassador-to-india/articleshow/77181426.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 27, 2020||Varanasi||CM: Start Level-2 Covid-19 hosp at AIIMS, Gorakhpur||Gorakhpur: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath visited AIIMS Gorakhpur on Sunday to inspect medical facilities and ordered setting up of a Level-2 Covid hospital soon in the institute for treatment of novel coronavirus infected patients. He also inspected the Lalit Narayan Mishra Railway hospital to inspect arrangements and inaugurated a remote-controlled contactless trolley to deliver food and medicines to Covid patients without touch. He also made an aerial survey of flood-affected areas in Sahjanwa area due to rivers in spate and instructed officials to prevent any breaches in dams and arrange boats in flooded areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-start-level-2-covid-19-hosp-at-aiims-gorakhpur/articleshow/77187946.cms||Arjumand Bano
July 27, 2020||Kochi||Cancel 110 possession certificates: Sub-collector||Idukki: A report submitted by Devikulam sub-collector S Prem Krishnan to Idukki district collector recommends cancelling 110 possession certificates which were found to be fabricated. A special team headed by Devikulam sub-collector found that the possession certificates of land encroachments reported in Kannan Devan Hills (KDH) village in Munnar under the cover of land distributed to the landless in government housing scheme. Last month, Idukki district collector formed a special team to verify the land records of the 110 possession certificates which were issued in 2018-19. “The special team verified the land records and found that revenue officials illegally issued 110 possession certificates in the KDH village during 2018-19. My report recommends that all the possession certificates should be cancelled,” said Krishnan. “The report also recommends action against revenue officials who issued the possession certificates,” he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cancel-110-possession-certificates-sub-collector/articleshow/77186757.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Meerut||Feared gangster Sunil Rathi ordered RLD worker’s killing from Tihar, claims UP Police||MEERUT: Feared UP gangster Sunil Rathi is still calling the shots from the country's high-security Tihar Prison in Delhi, UP Police said on Sunday as it arrested one of his aides for allegedly shooting dead a Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) functionary in Baghpat. Rathi was transferred to Tihar after he allegedly shot dead another gangster Munna Bajrangi inside Baghpat Jail on July 9, 2018. But, UP Police now believes that it didn’t stop him. On July 7, RLD’s Deshpal Khokhar was shot dead in Baghpat’s Badrakha village by three men. Khokar was involved in a dispute with Rathi’s local aides over sand mining in the region. He was not allowing their vehicles to pass through his region. “Three police teams were working round the clock to crack the case. The main shooter, Sourav alias Goli, was arrested on Sunday. And he acted at the behest of criminal Sunil Rathi currently lodged in Tihar,” said Ajay Kumar, superintendent of police (SP) Baghpat. According to SP Kumar, Saurabh and his two aides carried out the killing. Apart from trying to arrest the remaining two accused, the local police are also working to find out how Rathi was able to establish contact with his aides. Rathi was transferred to Tihar Jail on court orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/feared-gangster-sunil-rathi-ordered-rld-workers-killing-from-tihar-claims-up-police/articleshow/77186784.cms||Piyush Rai
July 27, 2020||Goa||Archives room of heritage comunidade bldg cleared||Panaji: Continuing their initiative to pursue restoration of the 400-year-old building that houses the office of 69-odd comunidade bodies of central zone, some components carried out cleaning of the archives room on Friday. While the staff of administrator of central zone comunidades office were present, the team comprising Venzy Viegas, president of Carambolim comunidade, Xavier Almeida, attorney of Taleigao comunidade and Jose Carmino Joao, treasurer of Morombi O Pequeno, participated in clearing the debris in the archives room. “Successive governments have failed for several decades to organise the office despite receiving high derama from comunidades for maintenance,” Joao said. Viegas expressed disappointment with the revenue department’s apathy. “We have got down on ground and will restore the archives,” he said. The team of components held two inspections with central zone office authorities while the administrator has assured to take up the matter with the government. The roof is leaking and the wooden flooring on first floor has been damaged. A part of the wall on western side is dilapidated and the archives are in a state of decay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/archives-room-of-heritage-comunidade-bldg-cleared/articleshow/77188020.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Mangaluru||Doctors stress need for early diagnosis, wait for nod to start plasma therapy||Mangaluru: Amid mounting Covid-19 cases in the coastal districts of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi, doctors are increasingly looking for feasible solutions to arrest its spread. At the Wenlock Hospital, doctors are awaiting approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to start plasma therapy for Covid-19 patients, with 10 donors having consented to donate plasma, said in-charge district health officer Dr Ratnakar. The officer pointed to the problems confronting the department of health and family welfare owing to the stigma associated with Covid-19, which had resulted in several patients trying to conceal their symptoms. “If we start treatment early, complications can be taken care of easily. In many cases, patients approach doctors only when they have difficulty in breathing, and when we admitted them, we had to shift them immediately to the ICU,” Dr Ratnakar said. Stigma worsens situation Dr Sandeep Samethadka Nayak, a physician of internal medicine in California in the United States of America, said that prevalence of misconceptions about the pandemic was among the reasons why many Covid-19 patients were falling prey to quackery. Calling for concerted efforts to battle the stigma associated with the pandemic, Dr Nayak said, “When I was practicing in Puttur, many patients would ask me not to disclose their illnesses to others. Such fears still persist among the people, and one way to resolve it is to break down complicated facts and concepts into simple language and make them understand.” Jimmy Xavier, a radio jockey with Radio Mirchi in Bengaluru, recently donated plasma to help with the efforts against the pandemic. “Stigma remains a roadblock in the fight against Covid-19. People who have the infection appear to labour under guilt of inconveniencing others. For many patients, the opinion of others appears to matter more than their own life,” Xavier said. Dr Supriya Hegde Aroor, psychiatrist and professor at Father Muller Medical College Hospital, said that it was fear that was driving the culture of ostracism. “Some people have started to think along the lines of ‘Will I die alone because of Covid?’, ‘Will I be stuffed in a PPE and laid to rest?’ This results in people not talking about the disease freely, and worsens the situation,” she said. Associate professor in the department of psychiatry, Yenepoya Medical College Dr Ravichandra Karkal pondered over the contradictory response of a large section of the public to reports of Amitabh Bachchan contracting the virus, for whose recovery many people started praying, which stood in stark contrast to the callous stance they adopted on learning of a neighbour testing positive for the novel coronavirus. “Stigma creates a sense of shame and the person with the disease is dehumanised. We need to also see that many people are recovering from the infection. This was once the problem associated with tuberculosis, HIV and many mental health problems too,” Dr Karkal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/doctors-stress-need-for-early-diagnosis-wait-for-nod-to-start-plasma-therapy/articleshow/77186766.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
July 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Case against activist for abusive posts on PM, Shah||HYDERABAD: Sleuths of Central Crime Station (CCS) have registered a case against a social activist Syed Abdahu Quadri aka Kashaf for allegedly posting derogatory posts against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah. V. Vinod Goud, a city based lawyer and resident of Reddy Basthi, Saidabad, had lodged a complaint with the Saidabad police station against Syed Abdahu Quadri alleging he had posted derogatory posts through his Twitter handle @syedKashaf95, demeaning the stature of office of the Prime Minister and home minister of India. The lawyer had also alleged that the posts have hurt his personal feelings towards the Prime Minister of India as they are in most demeaning manner. He requested police to take stringent legal action against Twitter handle @syedKashaf95 for posting derogatory photos. The Saidabad police registered a case against the social activist and transferred the case to CCS, Hyderabad. A case under IPC sections 153, 504, 505(2) has been registered and the investigation is underway. Earlier, the cybercrime police of CCS had also registered a case against Syed Abdahu Quadri for allegedly posting offensive content in connection with the Million March held in the city on January 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/case-against-activist-for-abusive-posts-on-pm-shah/articleshow/77188273.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Keltron delivers gadgets for atomic power stations||Thiruvananthapuram: Keltron has developed and delivered high performance UPS and related electronic equipment to nuclear power stations in Gujarat and Rajasthan. The state public unit provided the equipment to Kakrapar atomic power station in Gujarat and Rawatbhata atomic power station in Rajasthan. The electrical and mechanical design and manufacturing of the UPS and related electronic equipment were carried out by Keltron, the office of industries minister E P Jayarajan said. The equipments being developed and deployed by Keltron are the first in the country to pass international quality standards. The equipments have been installed in the two power stations. The quality test of 500 KVA UPS and inverters of different capacities were completed in 2018 December itself. Nuclear Power Corporation of India had declared the generating unit operational last week. The orders of Rajasthan atomic power station were also delivered and their quality assessment is being conducted. Keltron received the orders worth Rs 22.78 crore for the works and the power electronic group at Thiruvananthapuram Keltron equipment complex carried out the work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/keltron-delivers-gadgets-for-atomic-power-stations/articleshow/77186783.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Insurance firm told to refund Rs 2 lakh, pay Rs 50,000 for forgery||HYDERABAD: The district consumer forum here, has directed an insurance firm to refund Rs 2 lakh and pay Rs 50,000 as compensation for forging the signature of the insurer and for investing the amount in an insurance policy instead of a long-term investment plan. Complainant CB Rajendra Prasad submitted that he was approached by a manager of Tata AIA Life Insurance Co Ltd in 2012 with a lucrative proposal of one-time investment in their organisation, and also suggested making such investments in his son’s name as the complainant was aged 60. Believing them, he had invested Rs 2 lakh. As his son resides in USA, he informed the manager that he would prefer a one-time investment and his son would sign the required documents after he returned to India. Prasad had even handed over a copy of his son’s passport as the identity proof. A few days later, Prasad was shocked after he received an insurance policy document via courier in his son’s name, which had his son’s forged signatures. Immediately, he brought the issue to the notice of the insurance company and requested them to return the policy and refund the amount. He even issued legal notices. Left with no option, he approached the consumer forum seeking relief. The representatives of the insurance firm, in their written version, claimed that Prasad voluntarily purchased the policy and that he should have availed the free-look period immediately after receiving the policy document. They said that the policy was sourced through the manager and that the firm has disassociated with him and that allegations of mis-selling and forgery by the manager cannot be looked in by them at such a belated stage. During the trial, the bench noticed that the opposite party had not produced any evidence to prove that the signatures of the insured on the proposal form are genuine and not forged. The bench further said that the firm had been unfair in investing the amount in an insurance policy rather than in a long-term investment in the company that too in the name of his son, which is against insurance norms. Apart from refund and compensation, Rs 10,000 was awarded towards the costs incurred by the complainant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/insurance-firm-told-to-refund-rs-2-lakh-pay-rs-50000-for-forgery/articleshow/77188276.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
July 27, 2020||Meerut||Man, 30, 'accidentally' shot dead by aides during robbery bid at poultry farm||Muzaffarnagar: A 30-year-old man was shot dead at a poultry farm in Muzaffarnagar in what is now being believed as a “robbery attempt gone wrong” as the owner of the property claimed that the youth was accidently shot by one of his aides. Wahab Ahmad, the father of slain Gul Bahar, earlier accused the poultry farm owner for killing his son. But on Sunday, he filed a complaint against unknown persons. “An FIR has been filed and a probe is on,” said Sanjeev Kumar, station house officer of Bhopa police station.Wahab said, “My son had gone to visit a relative. While returning home some men shot him dead. He was innocent and had no criminal case.”On early Saturday morning, Ranjit Singh, the owner of the poultry farm, called police and told them that 5-6 armed robbers tried to break into his property. But, his son challenged the attackers and during the chaos one of the robbers shot dead another.While other culprits managed to escape. The dead man was later identified as Gul Bahar. Police have sent the dead body for post-mortem examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-30-accidentally-shot-dead-by-aides-during-robbery-bid-at-poultry-farm/articleshow/77186825.cms||Mohd Dilshad
July 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Pandemic rule violations: Six booked, 910 served challans||Times News Network Ludhiana: The police on Saturday registered six FIRs and issued 910 challans for Covid-19 rule violations. For opening shops after permissible time, two FIRs were registered by Model Town police and one each by Daresi, Division 6, Dugri and Shimlapuri police. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said 910 challans were issued for different violations, including not wearing a mask, not maintain social distancing and roaming after permissible time. Agarwal said as the number of Covid-19 positive cases was increasing in Ludhiana, people should step out of their houses only when needed and understand that these precautions were for their safety. He said residents can report any kind of violation at the WhatsApp number 9115601159 and help the police. At least 40 to 50 photos and videos were received on the number and the police either issued a challan or registered a case on the information shared, but only after verification. Amid the action on violators, a video on Sunday was doing rounds on social media in which a man captured illegal sale of liquor at a vend in Sundar Nagar after 10pm on Saturday. The video showed a group of men purchasing liquor from the vend’s window and the video-maker also questioned the mask-less workers on violations. Daresi SHO Davinder Kumar said the police were verifying the video, after which action would be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pandemic-rule-violations-six-booked-910-served-challans/articleshow/77186841.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Patna||Job for kin if Bihar employee dies of Covid||PATNA: The state cabinet on Saturday took a major decision to provide a job on compassionate grounds to a dependent of any state government employee who dies on duty due to Covid-19. As per a finance department’s proposal, which was approved by the cabinet, if the dependent is not willing to take the job on compassionate grounds, then he/ she would be provided full salary of the employee till the date of his retirement under a special family pension scheme. After the date of retirement, the dependents would also get the benefit of the existing family pension scheme. The dependents of those employees who are covered under the new pension scheme would also get full payable salary till the date of retirement of the deceased employee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/job-for-kin-if-state-employee-dies-of-covid/articleshow/77174827.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19 claims 2 more lives; 127 test positive||TNNLudhiana: Two residents died of Covid-19 on Sunday, when 127 persons from Ludhiana and nine from outside tested positive. Of the positive cases, five are police personnel and four are healthcare workers.Health department officials said a 51-year-old man from Choti Tandhari, who was also suffering from diabetes, died at Rajindra Hospital in Patiala, while a 48-year-old woman from Bishan Nagar, who had diabetes and blood pressure, died at PGI in Chandigarh on Sunday. They said with this, the number of deaths of district residents has risen to 60 and of outsiders who died here to 37. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga said to date, 57,870 samples of suspected persons have been taken in Ludhiana. He said of the pending reports, 59 came as positive, of which 56 were from Ludhiana district and one each from Jalandhar, Sangrur and Gurdaspur. The health department said of the positive cases in Ludhiana district, four each were from Sargodha Colony, Giaspura, Mahavir Colony, three each from Samrala, Jamalpur, two each from Fatehgarh Mohalla, Mullanpur, New Moti Nagar, Bhagwan Nagar, Doraha, Kaunke Kalan, one each from Jawaddi, Durgapuri, Dr Hira Singh Road, Dashmesh Nagar, Kanganwal, Tajpur Road, Jandyali, Focal Point, Pakhowal Road, Choti Jawaddi, Gobindgarh, Alamgir, Janta Nagar, Hambran, Bhagwanpura Samrala, Khanna, Essewal, Haibowal, Sherpur, Hargovind Nagar, Hussainpura, Guru Amardass Nagar, Mundiyan Kalan, Bishan Nagar, Lalori Kalan and Choti Tandhari. It added that apart from these, 77 positive cases were reported from private hospitals and laboratories, out of which 71 belonged to Ludhiana district, one each to Moga, Taran Tarn, Fatehgarh Sahib, Amritsar, J&K and Haryana. The civil surgeon said of these positive cases from the district, eight were from BRS Nagar, seven from Janakpuri, five from Basant Avenue, three each from Rishi Nagar, Model Town, Sector 32, Focal Point, Basti Jodhewal, Deep Nagar, two each from Haibowal Kalan, Kitchlu Nagar, Ghumar Mandi, Tajpur Road, Atam Nagar, Dugri, Omaxe, Miller Ganj, one each from SBS Nagar, New Ashok Nagar, Mandi Mullanpur, Durgapuri, Jamalpur, Sherpur Kalan, New Deep Nagar, Doraha, Police Lines, Harnampura, Kakowal Road, Pakhowal Road, New Shimlapuri, Basant Avenue, Rasoolpur, Sector 39, Mundiyan Kalan, Ahata Mohammad Tayal, Rajguru Nagar and Chander Nagar. Health department officials said with this, the total number of corona positive cases from the district has increased to 2,566 and 380 outsiders were found to be infected here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-19-claims-2-more-lives-127-test-positive/articleshow/77186861.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Kochi||Class XII topper gets PM Narendra Modi’s call||KOCHI: Vinayak M Mallil was in seventh heaven when he received a call from Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday for being the topper in the Commerce stream of the CBSE Class XII exam. “Sabash Vinayak, Sabash. How is the josh?” the prime minister asked Vinayak, whose father is a daily wage earner. “High Sir,” replied the student of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyala, Neriamangalam, about 70km from here. The conversation was aired on Sunday during the PM’s ‘Mann Ki Baat’ radio address. During the conversation, the PM asked him how many states he had visited, to which he replied, “only Kerala and Tamil Nadu”. When Modi invited Vinayak to visit Delhi, he replied he that was applying to Delhi University for higher studies. “Hard work and proper time utilisation,” Vinayak said when the prime minister asked him if he has any message for fellow students who will write the board exams in future. “You are lucky,” Modi told the boy when he said that his school did not allow students to use electronic devices or gadgets in its premises. The boy was topper in Commerce stream with 493/500 and scored centum in Accountancy, Business Studies and Information Practices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/class-xii-topper-gets-pms-call/articleshow/77186837.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Vadodara||12 booked for encroaching roads in Mangal Bazaar||Vadodara: City police on Sunday booked 12 persons who had allegedly encroached upon the road in Mangal Bazaar and blocking traffic movement through narrow lanes of the market. Police said that a team of City police station was patrolling in the busy Mangal Bazaar on Sunday afternoon. They noticed several vendors who were either squatting on road or had placed their carts for business. Police said that the vendors were asked to wind up their business as they were blocking the road, resulting in traffic jam. Offences were registered at City police station for obstructing public way against these 12 vendors. On the other hand, vendors alleged that they were taken to the police station and beaten up by cops. “The cops beat us with belt and wooden sticks inside the police station. We are only doing business and if police think that we have done something wrong they may book us, but why should they resort to violence,” said one of the vendors. Police have, however, refuted the allegations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/12-booked-for-encroaching-roads-in-mangal-bazaar/articleshow/77186540.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS leaders pile up pressure on Nama over road closure in Cantt||SECUNDERABAD: In a bid to put pressure on the local military authority (LMA) which has closed 14 civilian roads in the Secunderabad Cantonment area on July 18 in view of the increasing Covid-19 cases, the issue was taken up with Nama Nageshwar Rao, TRS floor leader in the Lok Sabha. M Rajasekhar Reddy, TRS in-charge of Malkajgiri parliamentary constituency, and J Rama Krishna, vice-president of the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB), on Sunday met Nageshwar Rao in the city and briefed him about the road closure and the hardships being faced by civilians living in the area. The leaders also brought to the notice of the MP other pending issues like service charges of Rs 600 crore due to the SCB, new building bylaws, implementation of BRS and BPS schemes, central government welfare schemes and SCB employees’ transfer policies. “The MP gave an assurance that he will take up these issues with the defence minister Rajnath Singh and would raise them in the forthcoming parliamentary session,” said J Rama Krishna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-leaders-pile-up-pressure-on-nama-over-road-closure-in-cantt/articleshow/77188280.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Kochi||Wild tusker kills tribal chief in Attapadi||Palakkad: The chief of Vannamthara Irula tribal hamlet Chinnananchan (70) was killed by a wild tusker on Saturday in Sholayur grama panchayat of Attapadi. His body was found on Sunday. A wild tusker was also present in the area, local residents said. On Saturday, he had taken his cattle to the forest two km away from the tribal settlement. When he didn’t return, people started searching for him but only in the search on Sunday could they find his body, with injuries. Two years ago, one tribesman was killed by a wild elephant in the same area, they said. Sholayur had witnessed man-animal conflict for a long time and people have demanded a solution to it. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/wild-tusker-kills-tribal-chief-in-attapadi/articleshow/77186859.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Kolhapur||Helpline numbers to inform no. of beds available||Kolhapur: The district administration has launched three helpline numbers to inform the callers about the number of beds available in the hospitals across the district for critical Covid-19 patients. It will function 24 hours as separate staff is being arranged to manage the helplines and coordinate with public and private hospitals to keep the data of bed availability updated every hour. District guardian minister Satej Patil said, “We are trying to increase the number of beds in the hospitals. We have identified some hospitals including CPR Hospital and D Y Patil Hospital for critical patients or patients who are in later stages of Covid and needs advanced technology such as CT scan, ventilators for detection and treatment.” “More staff will be deployed to manage the bed vacancies. The staff will also have the responsibility to provide the beds for critical patients by coordinating with the hospitals,” he added. The monitoring cell at the district collector’s office will also co-ordinate with the trusts and local doctors for the treatment of asymptomatic patients. Patil said an appeal has been made to the doctors, trusts and other organisations to provide the treatment to such patients so that the pressure on the existing covid management system is eased. “Currently, CPR Hospital has 42 ventilators. We are going to install 20 more ventilators in the next two days,” said Patil. The helpline numbers are- 9356716563, 9356732728, 9356713330. CPR Hospital has a separate helpline number-0231-2541500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/helpline-numbers-to-inform-no-of-beds-available/articleshow/77186871.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Guest lecturers seek salary dues from govt||Coimbatore: Guest lecturers from government arts and science colleges in the state have alleged that they have not been paid salary since April. Guest lecturers are recruited every academic year in June. As the financial year ends by March, the pay for April is given the next academic year along with the pay for June and July, they said. But, this year as colleges were closed towards March end, guest lecturers have not been paid since April, and also as the colleges have not begun yet, they have not been roped in for classes. As many guest lecturers depend on this income for livelihood, the non-payment of dues has affected them. V Thangaraj, representative of Tamil Nadu All Government College UGC Qualified Guest Lecturers Association, said across the state there were 4,084 guest lecturers in government arts and science colleges. “We are working for a monthly pay of Rs 15,000, and many of us are solely dependent on this. The UGC has said the lockdown period should be considered ‘on duty’ for us as well. But we have not been paid,” he said. Usually they don’t get paid for May, but they would be roped in for exam duty and evaluation work, from which they would get some income. But this year there were no exams, he said. “We urge that the state government pay us considering the crisis we are in due to the lockdown,” he said. T Veeramani, president of Tamil Nadu Government Collegiate Teachers’ Association, said there were 34 guest lecturers in the Coimbatore Government Arts College. “The state has to consider their situation and pay them.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/guest-lecturers-seek-salary-dues-from-govt/articleshow/77187577.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Spurious drug: Police search houses in Ahmedabad, Surat||AHMEDABAD: City crime branch teams probing into the spurious tocilizumab case conducted searches at houses in Ahmedabad and Surat on Saturday. Cops raided the house of Nilesh Laliwala, an accused, in the Paldi area of Ahmedabad. Another team searched the house of the main accused, Sohel Tai, at Lalgate in Surat. Boxes of protein powder were found in Ahmedabad, while empty ampoules and boxes of steroids were found in Surat. Police said that they had leads on the location of Sohel Tai, but two other accused, Ashish and Akshay Shah were yet to be located. “We are using cellphone tracking and human network to trace the accused,” said an investigator. Police said the modus operandi of the racket had become clearer after interrogating Nilesh Laliwala and Harsh Thakor, who were placed in police custody by the court on Thursday. The spurious injections were of generic nandrolone decanoate, an anabolic steroid primarily used in anaemia and wasting syndrome. Sohel Tai, who owns Genic Pharma that markets anabolic steroids sent the ampoules to Ahmedabad where Laliwala and Thakor used to relabel them as tocilizumab and send the boxes back to Surat, a crime branch official said. Once relabelling and repacking was done, Tai, with the brother-duo Ashis and Akshay Shah, both residents of Sabarmati, marketed the fake tocilizumab. “Our priority is to dig out where else, besides Ahmedabad and Surat, the racket had sold the fake drugs,” a crime branch official said. The Food and Drugs Control Administration (FDCA) had initially busted the racket with the trail leading to a hospital in Vastraput. A complaint was then lodged at Vastrapur police station last Monday against Ashish and Akshay Shah, Harsh Thakor of Chandkheda, Nilesh Laliwala of Paldi, and Sohel Tai of Surat. The probe was then handed over to city crime branch. Tocilizumab is among the few drugs which have been effective in reducing Covid-related complications during this pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/spurious-drug-police-search-houses-in-city-surat/articleshow/77187603.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Gangster John Buttar’s 2 more accomplices land in police net||tnnLudhiana: Close on the heels of arrest of notorious gangster Navdeep Singh aka John Buttar and his four accomplices following a shootout with the police in Kharar of Mohali, the Ludhiana rural police has now arrested his two more partners in crime from Lakha village.The criminals — Maninder Singh Bagga, 25, of Lakha village, and Manpreet Singh, 31, of Manuke village — were arrested on Saturday evening.Police officials said, acting on a tipoff on Friday that John Buttar, who is a proclaimed offender since 2012, is hiding in a society in Kharar, the police arrested him and his four accomplices after a brief shootout. After their arrest, the police had been looking for his other accomplices, they added. Giving details about the arrest of Maninder and Manpreet, Crime Investigating Agency (CIA) incharge Simarjit Singh said they got information that the duo was present at Sua Bridge on Malla Road near Lakha village. Based on the information, a police party raided the area and arrested them.The police recovered a pistol and two cartridges from them and the motorcycle they were riding was also seized. The accused have been booked under the provisions of Arms Act at Hathur police station.During the investigation, the police came to know that the duo was involved in many crimes in Moga. Maninder, along with his another accomplice, had opened fire in Buttar village of Moga and injured a person, after which an attempt to murder case was registered against him at Badni Kalan police station. Maninder knew John Buttar for three years and was inspired by his popularity in the world of crime, the cops said.BOX‘A’ category gangsterCIA incharge Simarjit Singh said that the Ludhiana rural police was part of the operation in which John Buttar was arrested from Kharar following an encounter. Buttar is and had looted Rs 60 lakh from a cash van in Jagraon five-six years ago. The arrest of two criminals in Lakha came following the arrest of Buttar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/gangster-john-buttars-2-more-accomplices-land-in-police-net/articleshow/77186880.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Urea to be supplied to farmers soon||Hyderabad: The delay on the part of the union chemicals and fertilizers ministry to supply urea to Telangana has left lakhs of farmers worried as the sowing operations are in full swing following the recent rains in the state. After chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao took up the issue with Union chemicals and fertilizers minister DV Sadananda Gowda, the ministry released 1.06 lakh metric tonnes of the total 2.05 lakh metric tonnes of July quota of urea to the state. In all, the state requires 22.30 lakh metric tonnes of fertilizers for Vaanakalam season and the Centre has assured them supply of the fertilizers on time. Agriculture minister Singireddy Niranjan Reddy said the Centre had agreed to supply the state 22.30 lakh tonnes of fertilisers including 10.50 lakh tonnes of urea this Vaanakalam. “Farmers should not panic as urea supplies have resumed with the CM’s timely intervention. The allocated quantities of fertilisers will be supplied to the state in a phased manner,” he said. He said that the Centre has not supplied July quota fertilisers on time. “KCR has spoken to Union chemicals and fertilisers minister over phone. I also personally met him in Delhi following which the supplies have been speeded up,” he said. Though only 1.06 metric tonnes of the total 2.05 lakh tonnes of urea as part of July quota has reached the state, the remaining supplies would reach the state by month-end. “Telangana is the only state in the country that procured all the grains produced by farmers. Also, the government deposited Rythu Bandhu financial assistance into the bank accounts of lakhs of farmers in just 36 hours. The KCR-led TRS government is farmer-friendly but vested interests are trying to mislead farmers,” Niranjan Reddy said. The minister sought to assure the farmers that there was no dearth of fertilisers. The state government has taken all measures to ensure regular supply of fertilisers, he added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/urea-to-be-supplied-to-farmers-soon/articleshow/77188026.cms||Roushan Ali
July 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Villagers attack disabled woman for feeding stray dogs in Khammam||HYDERABAD: With yet another attack on a physically-challenged woman in Chinnaberavalli village of Khammam district earlier this week, the end to the conflict among the residents over feeding of stray dogs seems to be nowhere in sight. The incident came to light on Sunday after animal activists along with Kandukuri Dhanalakshmi, 35, the woman who was allegedly attacked by the villagers, sumitted a representation to the district collector seeking a proper investigation into the case and security for the woman. “The villagers attacked me thrice within three months for feeding and taking care of the dogs in the community. I filed a complaint with the police after the last attack when they pulled me by my hair after I tried to stop them while they were beating up one of the dogs with sticks. They injured me with the same sticks and killed the dog,” said Dhanalakshmi. “I have asked the civic officials to conduct animal birth control and anti-rabies vaccination programmes. There is also a need to conduct awareness campaigns for villagers,” she said. The animal activists filed the complaint with Bonakal police and investigation revealed that villagers had killed the dog claiming that the dog was rabid and that it attacked their cattle. “Local residents objected to the woman feeding the animals, saying that the dogs were proving dangerous to them and cattle. The argument ended in the villagers killing the dog and injuring the woman ,” said Kondal Rao, SI, Bonakal police station. Meanwhile, one of the villagers said, “The increasing population of dogs in the villages is becoming a major issue for safety of residents. The villagers are left with no option but to kill them or relocate them because authorities take no steps to control their population.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/villagers-attack-disabled-woman-for-feeding-stray-dogs/articleshow/77188029.cms||Moulika.KV
July 27, 2020||Goa||Konkani Bhasha Mandal elects its first woman president||Margao: Konkani writer and activist Anwesha Singbal was elected, unopposed, as the president of Konkani Bhasha Mandal, Goa, thereby becoming the first woman to head the organization since its establishment in September 1962. Pobre Fernandes was elected vice-president while Ulhas Gaonkar, the secretary, at the election held on Sunday to constitute the new executive committee of the mandal. Purushottam Verlekar and Sneha Sabnis were elected joint secretaries. Singbal succeeds Chetan Acharya who led the Konkani’s premier organisation for three terms since 2012. Singbal, in a press statement, said that her election to the top post was a testimony to the faith reposed in the youth leaders by the Konkani Bhasha Mandal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/konkani-bhasha-mandal-elects-its-first-woman-president/articleshow/77188099.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Industry players seek extension of loan moratorium||Coimbatore: With no signs of revival in the industrial sector and production and sales bordering around 30% of the usual size, industrialists have urged that the loan moratorium ending next month be extended. Apart from this, the loans given under the emergency credit line guarantee (ECLG) scheme also be combined with the existing loans and this be restructured to be paid in instalments over three to four years. There is uncertainty in the industrial scenario with payments getting delayed and raw materials becoming difficult to source, said S Surulivel, president of Railway Suppliers Association (RASA) and a coordinator of Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Associations (Focia). “The initial loan moratorium announced for the industry would end on August 31. Due to the pandemic crisis, we would be unable to pay our dues,” he said. He sought that the moratorium be extended by another four months. Earlier, representatives of the Joint Council of the Industrial Associations of Coimbatore had appealed to the Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman that the loan moratorium be extended till March 31, 2021. In a recent online meeting on the impact of the lockdown on MSMEs, representatives said if they take up paying the dues for the loans they get now, they wouldn’t be able to use it for industry operations, and to create demand. However, a section of industrialists said they had to wait till the month-end to see whether there were signs of revival in the situation, before seeking a moratorium. “We are wary whether banks would levy accrued interest for the moratorium period,” said an industry representative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/industry-players-seek-extension-of-loan-moratorium/articleshow/77187592.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Two killed as truck falls on scooter||Coimbatore: Two people were crushed to death and another two injured when a truck, which was hit by a bike, crashed into a tree and fell on another two-wheeler on Udumalpet-Palladam Road near Kethanur in Tirupur district on Saturday evening. Police identified the deceased as P Balamurugan, 49, and Manikandan, 40, of Iduvai near Mangalam in Tirupur. They were construction workers. The incident took place when they were returning home after work on a scooter. According to a police officer, the tipper truck, which was laden with m-sand, was heading to Udumalpet from Palladam. E Prakash, 27, of Gudimangalam near Udumalpet was at the wheel. “A biker, identified as G Naveenkumar, 24, from R Krishnapuram in Udumalpet, lost control over his vehicle and rammed the truck, which then lost control, hit a tree and an electric pole, and turned turtle. The scooter was, meanwhile, trapped under the truck. Both the construction workers died on the spot.” Other motorists informed police and a team led by Palladam deputy superintendent of police Murugavel sent the dead bodies to the Palladam government hospital. The bike rider, who sustained fractures, and the truck driver were also admitted to the same hospital. After autopsy, the bodies were handed over to the kin on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-killed-as-truck-falls-on-scooter/articleshow/77187605.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Kolhapur||New dean appointed for CPR Hospital||Kolhapur: The state directorate of medical education and research has appointed Chandrakant Mhaske, the dean of Nanded’s government medical college, as the new dean of the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje Civil Hospital The appointment of the dean was controversial after the former dean Meenakshi Gajbhiye was suddenly transferred and then it was halted. The charge was temporarily given to Arti Ghorpade. Mhaske has been asked to join from Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/new-dean-appointed-for-cpr-hospital/articleshow/77186882.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Woman molested by father-in-law||AHMEDABAD: A 21-year-old woman has lodged a complaint with Gomtipur police against her father-in-law on Saturday for molesting her and demanding physical relationship. The woman ran out of her house with her two- year-old daughter and called up her mother-in-law who had gone to her daughter’s house and informed her about the incident. The mother-in-law came home and took the daughter-in-law to lodge a complaint in this connection. Inspector Chirag Tandel of Gomtipur police said that they have registered an offence under Section 354 (A). The accused is yet to be nabbed. According to the complainant, on Saturday, while her husband had gone out to sell goats at Shah-e-Alam and her mother-in-law had gone to her daughter’s house, her father-in-law came in the night. “The FIR mentions that the father-in-law slept beside her and molested the woman,” said Tandel. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-molested-by-father-in-law/articleshow/77187595.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Uttam Kumar Reddy, others held ahead of Chalo Mallaram||HYDERABAD: Tension prevailed at Manthani police station with the TRS and the Congress members raising slogans against each other and almost coming to blows. They had gathered as part of the call given by the Scheduled Caste (SC) wings of both TRS and Congress. While Congress had given the call “Chalo Mallaram” in protest against the alleged murder of Dalit youth and Congress member Revuli Rajababu, the TRS had called for ‘Chalo Mallaram’ to clarify that it was not involved in the murder. It took some time for the police to bring the situation under control. Terming CM K Chandrasekhar Rao as anti-Dalit, Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Sunday condemned the inaction by police in the case in Mallaram village. Uttam was speaking to reporters at Lingala Ghanpur Police Station where he was detained while he was on his way to participate in 'Chalo Mallaram' protest march organised by TPCC Scheduled Caste cell on Sunday. “A Dalit youth, Revuli Rajababu, was murdered at Mallaram village on July 6 allegedly by a local TRS leader and his goons. But the local police neither probed into the murder nor took any action against the culprits. We wanted to meet the family and the local authorities to seek justice for the Dalit youth. However, we were stopped from visiting Mallaram and taken into custody by the police," he said.  Uttam expressed concern over rising atrocities against Dalits since TRS came to power. “KCR came to power in 2014 and promised three acres of land for poor Dalit families, double bedroom houses and also assured them protection and prosperity. However, Dalits are being targeted almost on a daily basis under TRS rule,” he alleged. He strongly condemned the arrest of CLP leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka and house arrest of MLAs D Sridhar Babu and Seethakka and illegal detention of hundreds of Congress leaders and workers in Karimnagar and Bhupalpally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uttam-others-held-ahead-of-chalo-mallaram/articleshow/77188032.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
July 27, 2020||Kolhapur||In Kolhapur, Covid-19 spreads among all areas & age groups||Kolhapur: Considered a secured district till recently, even when the Covid-19 pandemic was raging across the state, Kolhapur is now in the grip of the infectious disease. This past week, reports of the viral infection have come in from almost all localities in the district and people from all age groups have contracted the virus. While the number of cases among those aged 51 years or more has shown a significant increase, health officials are concerned about the rise in the cases among the youths and middle-aged people too. On July 21, the 21-50 years age-group had 1,682 patients. However, by July 24, the number in this category had shot up to 2,192. This means, in just four days 510 new Covid-positive patients were identified in this age group, which translates to a 30% increase. Health officials blame this recent spike on apathy among the youth and middle-aged people, who are inclined to go out of their houses for some reason or other, without strictly following social distancing and mask-wearing norms. Health officials are also concerned because more children in the age group of 1-10 years are also testing positive. Official data reveals that the Kolhapur district had 143 patients in the said category on July 21. But the number increased to 196 by July 24. As many 53 children had tested positive during this duration, indicating a 37% spike. The number positive cases has also increased in the 51-70 years and 71 years+ categories. However, health officials maintain that a rise in these two categories is understandable as the majority of people in these age-groups have health issues. They said the patient numbers in these two categories are high because of house-to-house surveys carried out to identify vulnerable people. On July 21, the 51- 0 years age group had 560 positive cases and the number increased up to 759 on July 24. As many as 199 more patients were identified in four days. The number of cases in this age group increased by around 35 %. Official data shows that patients above 71 years increased by 42 % from July 21 to July 24. The number of cases in the said category was 110 on July 21 and it rose to 142 on July 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/in-kolhapur-covid-19-spreads-among-all-areas-age-groups/articleshow/77186888.cms||Satyajit Joshi
July 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Pandemic effect: Sewing machine industry unable to come out of woods||Ludhiana: It has been almost three months since factories were allowed to function, but sewing machine industry has still not been able to come on an even keel. A large number of manufacturers and traders are struggling to pay their electricity bills. Industrialists said some of them were considering quitting the business and switching to some other sector. Following the lockdown, there was severe shortage of labour, drop in orders, delay in recovery of old payments from their buyers due to the inability of Ludhiana businessmen to tour other states. Jagbir Sokhi, president of the Sewing Machine Development Club, said, “In most of the industrial sectors, the demand for products is picking up, but the only problem is shortage of labour. In our case, along with severe labour shortage we are also struggling to get new orders. The situation is such that some of the sewing machine parts’ manufacturing units, which have large power connections, are struggling even to pay their power bills. So, it’s a very complex situation and it looks obvious that the future of our industry is not bright. Therefore, a sizeable percentage of sewing machine industrialists is considering changing the trade.” Amarjit Singh Swan, president of Ludhiana Sewing Machine Industries’ Association, said despite factories working for three months, their industry, for which the city is known worldwide, has not been able to return to normal. “There are some manufacturers who have orders and labour, but unfortunately no capital to run their businesses, as huge sums are stuck with their buyers for whom supplies were made before lockdown but their payments are still pending. One of the major reasons for delay in payments is the inability of businessmen to go to other states for recovery and finalise orders, which was otherwise a routine affair. Because of this, everyone, including the assemblers of sewing machines, traders and the machine parts’ manufacturers, are suffering.” According to Jatinder Nagpal, finance secretary of Ludhiana Sewing Machine Industries’ Association, “Businessmen of the sector are feeling dejected and demoralised, and thinking of changing the line, as the prospects of this business picking up seem unlikely. Ludhiana is the biggest manufacturing and trading hub of sewing machines, so the state government must pay attention to our plight and help us come out of the current mess by either announcing a special relief package for the industry or help us get financial assistance from the Centre to manufacture high-end industrial sewing machines, which have a huge scope.”LUDHIANA’S SEWING MACHINE INDUSTRYNumber of sewing machine and parts manufacturers – 4,000 (registered and unregistered)Number of sewing machine traders - 500Total capacity of domestic sewing machine manufacturing - 15,000-20,000 daily* Source: Sewing Machine Development Club, Ludhiana||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pandemic-effect-sewing-machine-industry-unable-to-come-out-of-woods/articleshow/77186891.cms||Mohit Behl
July 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Ladhowal SHO suspended for inaction against mining mafia||Times News Network Ludhiana: The Ludhiana commissioner of police has suspended the SHO of Ladhowal police station, sub-inspector Balwinder Singh, for failing to act against the mining mafia.A departmental inquiry has been marked against the SHO and no explanation was sought from him.The action came a day after some people clicked and sent pictures to the police commissioner, Rakesh Agarwal, of machines mining in Ladhowal early on July 23. Assistant commissioner of police (West) Gurpreet Singh said, “In the wee hours of July 23, a group of about 20 people reached a mining spot in Ladhowal, clicked pictures of Pockland machines present on the spot and sent those to the commissioner of police. It is alleged that the SHO did not act against the mining mafia in his jurisdiction. Therefore, the SHO has been suspended and a departmental inquiry initiated against him.” The ACP added that nobody has been appointed as the new SHO of Ladhowal police station.Sub-inspector Balwinder Singh had taken the charge in August 2019. SHO Balwinder Singh said, “I have been trapped as I acted strictly against the mining mafia. I had arrested the main accused, who was wanted in 16 cases of illegal mining. That time, he had tried to pressurize me. He had made some influential people call me to release him, but I did not listen to anyone. The accused had also offered me a bribe of Rs 5 lakh. I turned down his offer and arrested him in all cases. He is behind the entire issue.”  “When I learned about illegal mining going on in the area early on July 23, I lodged an FIR and seized the vehicles. But I don’t know what happened after that. A day later, I was told that I have been suspended. The senior officials did not even seek any explanation from me. I believe it is a conspiracy against me hatched by the accused as I acted strictly in the matter,” the sub-inspector added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ladhowal-sho-suspended-for-inaction-against-mining-mafia/articleshow/77186886.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana Covid-19 count crosses 31,000, death toll nears 400||CHANDIGARH: Haryana’s Covid-19 count on Sunday reached 31,332 cases with 392 deaths as 794 new patients and three deaths were added to the tally. Overall recoveries in the state rose to 24,384 as 730 persons were discharged from hospital. With a recovery rate of 77.82%, the state has 6,556 active patients, of whom 116 are in a critical condition. The health authorities said cases had been increasing as the state as it was carrying out more tests. With a testing rate of 21,675 tests per million, 5,49,463 persons have been tested so far. NCR districts continued to dominate numbers with Faridabad recording 219 new patients. Here, the overall total rose to 7,693. In all, 270 patients were discharged, taking the number of recoveries in the district to 6,052 and active patients to 1,521. Gurugram had 121 new patients, taking the district total to 8,612, highest in state. Gurugram had 170 recoveries and total recoveries tose to 7,409. A death each was reported from Kurukshetra, Panchkula and Hisar. Rewari had the third highest number of cases with 81 new patients. Here, the total rose to 1,421. Panipat had 47 new patients and the district total rose to 901. Also, 44 new cases were from Karnal, 39 from Rohtak, 32 from Ambala, 28 from Kurukshetra, 24 from Sonipat, 19 each from Palwal and Pannchkula, 17 each from Fatehabad and Hisar, 16 from Mahindergarh, 11 from Jhajjar, 10 from Jind, seven from Nuh, six each from Kaithal and Bhiwani, five from Charkhi Dadri, and one from Sirsa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-count-crosses-31k-death-toll-nears-400/articleshow/77194920.cms||Manvir Saini
July 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Covid-19 count crosses 31,000, death toll nears 400||CHANDIGARH: Haryana’s Covid-19 count on Sunday reached 31,332 cases with 392 deaths as 794 new patients and three deaths were added to the tally. Overall recoveries in the state rose to 24,384 as 730 persons were discharged from hospital. With a recovery rate of 77.82%, the state has 6,556 active patients, of whom 116 are in a critical condition. The health authorities said cases had been increasing as the state as it was carrying out more tests. With a testing rate of 21,675 tests per million, 5,49,463 persons have been tested so far. NCR districts continued to dominate numbers with Faridabad recording 219 new patients. Here, the overall total rose to 7,693. In all, 270 patients were discharged, taking the number of recoveries in the district to 6,052 and active patients to 1,521. Gurugram had 121 new patients, taking the district total to 8,612, highest in state. Gurugram had 170 recoveries and total recoveries tose to 7,409. A death each was reported from Kurukshetra, Panchkula and Hisar. Rewari had the third highest number of cases with 81 new patients. Here, the total rose to 1,421. Panipat had 47 new patients and the district total rose to 901. Also, 44 new cases were from Karnal, 39 from Rohtak, 32 from Ambala, 28 from Kurukshetra, 24 from Sonipat, 19 each from Palwal and Pannchkula, 17 each from Fatehabad and Hisar, 16 from Mahindergarh, 11 from Jhajjar, 10 from Jind, seven from Nuh, six each from Kaithal and Bhiwani, five from Charkhi Dadri, and one from Sirsa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-count-crosses-31k-death-toll-nears-400/articleshow/77188033.cms||Manvir Saini
July 27, 2020||Surat||Gujarat records 1,110 new Covid-19 cases, 21 deaths in 24 hours||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat climbed yet another high – 1,110 in 24 hours ending 5pm on Sunday at the rate of 46 Covid cases every 60 minutes. The state’s cumulative tally is now 55,822. It was the state’s fifth daily high in seven days and sixth consecutive day of 1,000-plus daily cases. The new cases include 299 from Surat district, 163 from Ahmedabad, 92 from Vadodara and 72 from Rajkot. Vadodara crossed 4,100 and Rajkot 1,400 cases with the update. Analysis of the figures reveals that compared to July 7, the state has recorded 42% rise in daily cases. In July, the state recorded cases between 601 and 700 for three days, 701 and 800 for five days, 801 and 900 for four days, and between 901 and 1,000 for eight days before climbing to 1,000-plus cases for the past six days. The state also recorded deaths of 21 patients, taking the death toll to 2,326. The deaths include 12 from Surat, three from Ahmedabad, two from Vadodara and one each from Gandhinagar, Jamnagar, Morbi and Rajkot. A total of 753 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total number to 40,365. The discharges include 168 from Ahmedabad, 147 from Surat, 57 from Rajkot and 34 from Vadodara. With the update, the state now has 13,131 active patients, which consists of 23.5% of the total Covid-19 patients so far. The share of deceased and discharged patients is 4.2% and 72.3% respectively. As of Sunday evening, Gujarat has 85 patients on ventilator. Gujarat carried out a record 21,708 tests in 24 hours, taking the total number to 6.42 lakh. The state health department claims that daily 334 persons per million are getting tested. As on Sunday evening, Gujarat had 3.64 lakh persons under quarantine, out of which 3.62 lakh were under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gujarat-records-1110-new-cases-21-deaths-in-24-hrs/articleshow/77188947.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Amritsar||Sharpest spike in new cases in Punjab, 15 succumb to coronavirus||CHANDIGARH: Punjab on Sunday recorded the highest single-day spike of 534 Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally of positive cases to 13,218, out of which 4,102 are active. With 15 Covid deaths also recorded during the day, the toll stands at 306. Ludhiana district recorded the highest number of five deaths, followed by two each in Ropar, Amritsar and Gurdaspur, and one death each in Nawanshahr, Bathinda, Mohali and Jalandhar districts. As many as 513 Covid-19 patients were also discharged on Sunday from various hospitals across the state after their recovery, pushing the number of cured persons so far to 8,810. Of the latest cases, highest 95 were registered in Ludhiana district, followed by 83 in Patiala, 70 in Jalandhar, 45 in Amritsar, 42 in Hoshiarpur, 28 in Mohali, 27 in Bathinda, 24 in Fazilka, 17 in Sangrur, 16 in Gurdaspur, 15 in Tarn Taran, 13 in Ferozepur, 12 in Pathankot and 10 in Fatehgarh Sahib. Out of those, 17 had source of infection outside Punjab, 34 were police personnel, 23 were health care workers, six jail inmates and one BSF personnel. There were a total of 4,102 active Covid-19 cases in Punjab. Jalandhar district had highest 775 active cases, followed by 660 in Ludhiana, 622 in Patiala, 320 in Amritsar and 243 in Sangrur. Amritsar district has recorded the highest number of 68 Covid-19 deaths till now. There have been 59 deaths in Ludhiana, 38 in Jalandhar, 23 in Sangrur and 20 in Patiala. Although the government’s daily health bulletin put the number of positive cases surfacing during the day in Bathinda at 27, the district authorities said there were 29 cases. Similarly, Fazilka district officials reported 25 cases, one more than 24 in the bulletin, while the Barnala authorities said 11 persons tested positive for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/sharpest-spike-in-new-cases-in-punjab-15-succumb-to-virus/articleshow/77194995.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Tailor ends life, sis-in-law booked||Times News Network Ludhiana: A 21-year-old man committed suicide at his shop in Ramesh Nagar on Tibba Road on Saturday.The police have recovered a suicide note from the shop in which Naved, of Krishna Vihar on Tibba Road, has accused his brother’s wife of forcing him to take the extreme step.Mustakeem Ahemd, Naved’s father, said, “My son, a tailor, had left for his shop at 1pm. When I went to his workplace, I found it bolted from inside. As my repeated knocks went unanswered, I called up my elder son Sahvej Saif. We broke open the shutter and found Naved hanging from the ceiling fan. At that time, Naved was alive.” Naved died on way to a hospital.Tibba police station SHO sub-inspector Daljit Singh said, “In a suicide note recovered from the shop, Naved has accused his sister-in-law Khushnuma of misbehaving with him and his family. Khushnuma had married Sahvej Saif four years ago. Soon thereafter, she started fighting with everyone and would often insult Naved and his family.” On the basis of the suicide note and the statement of Mustakeem Ahemd, a case has been registered under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the IPC against the woman, who is yet to be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/tailor-ends-life-sis-in-law-booked/articleshow/77186897.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Kolhapur||Rapid testing in Maharashtra's Sangli district soon||KOLHAPUR: Sangli district administration will soon begin rapid antigen tests of Covid-19 suspects for early detection of the infection. In the first phase, priority will be given to elderly citizens from the containment areas. The district has also adopted home isolation policy for asymptomatic Covid patients. Sangli collector Abhijeet Chaudhary said, “ We are going to allow home isolation for patients who are asymptomatic and do not have any serious co-morbid conditions. The criteria have been fixed as per the government’s protocol.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/rapid-testing-in-sangli-district-soon/articleshow/77186904.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Kochi||Tusker Mathanga Kesari Kongad Kuttishankaran dead||Palakkad: Popular temple tusker Manthanga Kesari Kongad Kuttishankaran which was ailing for some time died at Kongad near here on Sunday. An expert medical monitoring committee was supervising the treatment of this popular tusker belonging to Thirumandamkunnu Devaswom. The elephant had a large number of fans in the district and outside. The temple trustee Modapplapally S Namboodiripad said that a committee of experts headed by veterinary doctor from Thrissur D Shyam Venugopal had tried to save the elephant. Local residents considered the pachyderm the pride of the area. The elephant was suffering from foot disease and age-related ailments. It had participated in the temple festival and was in heat in April. After that, it suffered from weakness and was taking in less food. Kottapadi Kuttishankaran Nair donated the elephant to Thirumandamkunnu temple in 1968 when it was 5 years of age.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/tusker-mathanga-kesari-kongad-kuttishankaran-dead/articleshow/77187041.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||2 accuse cops of collecting mask money; charged!||Ahmedabad: Hardik Vala and Shubham Vala of Nikol have been booked for flouting the mask rule and then abusing police. The two were riding a scooter on Saturday and had not worn masks. When an Amraiwadi police team stopped them, the two accused the cops of extracting money and hurled abuses. Amraiwadi police have booked the duo under several sections of the Indian Penal Code including 186 (obstructing a public servant’s discharge of duty), and 188 (disobeying a public servant’s order). The Disaster Management Act has been invoked as well. “The two have been sent for pre-arrest Covid tests,” said a senior police official of the Amraiwadi police station. According to the complaint lodged by assistant sub-inspector Anil Sakraji, his team saw the two men on the scooter. “When we signalled them to stop, they tried to turn around and flee,” Sakraji said. “But we stopped them. The two then started abusing us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2-accuse-cops-of-collecting-mask-money-charged/articleshow/77187674.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Coimbatore||HMK functionary detained under Goondas Act||Coimbatore: Hindu Makkal Katchi’s Tirupur north president T Manimaran, who was arrested for attempting to murder his father-in-law last month, was detained under the Goondas Act on Saturday. The Perumanallur police had arrested Manimaran, 45, a resident of Chettipalayam in Tirupur, last month and lodged him in the Coimbatore Central Prison. Manimaran is also facing harassment charges and a cheating case. He was behind the attack on Hindu Munnani functionary Nandakumar in March, police sources said. As many as 17 people from Tirupur district have been detained under the Goondas Act since January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/hmk-functionary-detained-under-goondas-act/articleshow/77187613.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Engineering colleges forcing us to work amid pandemic, says staff body||HYDERABAD: Claiming several engineering colleges were forcing teaching and non-teaching staff to attend paperwork during the pandemic, Telangana Technical Institutions Employees Association (TTIEA) members have requested officials to initiate action against those managements violating the Epidemics Diseases Act, 1897 and AICTE orders. They said the managements were harassing staff and threatening to sack them if they fail to attend colleges. “The managements are harassing both teaching and non-teaching staff during the pandemic to attend college and do National Board of Accreditation (NBA) and National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) works. As per the government as well as AICTE orders, college should have been closed until July 31 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. However, colleges are threatening to withhold salaries or sack if anyone fails to attend colleges. To save their jobs, staff have no option except to follow management orders,” TTIEA president V Balakrishna Reddy said, adding about 50-60 engineering colleges in the state were forcing staff to attend work daily. They alleged that colleges were taking zero precautions — no sanitisation, no temperature checks, no masks, no sanitisers, among others. The college managements, meanwhile, said that it was not against norms to use the services of their faculty. “Colleges have the right to use the services of their staff, especially, when their accreditation will be reassessed this year. Autonomous colleges will lose their status if they fail to get their accreditation reassessed,” said KVK Rao, general secretary, All India Federation of Self-Financing Technical Institutions, adding that colleges were taking all precautions against Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/engg-colleges-forcing-us-to-work-amid-pandemic-says-staff-body/articleshow/77187626.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Hyderabad||JNTUH PhD for professionals||Hyderabad: In a first such initiative, the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTUH) is all set to introduce PhD programme for working professionals from the academic year 2020-21. “If working professionals from different companies want to work on developing some solution by pursuing research, then they can do that at JNTUH. Professionals will get to work with university faculty members on their research topics,” JNTUH in-charge vice-chancellor Jayesh Ranjan told TOI on Sunday. Fifteen working professionals would be enrolled in the academic year to pursue research projects. Last date to apply for the programme for working professionals is July 31. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jntuh-phd-for-professionals/articleshow/77188034.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Sharpest spike in new cases in Punjab, 15 succumb to coronavirus||CHANDIGARH: Punjab on Sunday recorded the highest single-day spike of 534 Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally of positive cases to 13,218, out of which 4,102 are active. With 15 Covid deaths also recorded during the day, the toll stands at 306. Ludhiana district recorded the highest number of five deaths, followed by two each in Ropar, Amritsar and Gurdaspur, and one death each in Nawanshahr, Bathinda, Mohali and Jalandhar districts. As many as 513 Covid-19 patients were also discharged on Sunday from various hospitals across the state after their recovery, pushing the number of cured persons so far to 8,810. Of the latest cases, highest 95 were registered in Ludhiana district, followed by 83 in Patiala, 70 in Jalandhar, 45 in Amritsar, 42 in Hoshiarpur, 28 in Mohali, 27 in Bathinda, 24 in Fazilka, 17 in Sangrur, 16 in Gurdaspur, 15 in Tarn Taran, 13 in Ferozepur, 12 in Pathankot and 10 in Fatehgarh Sahib. Out of those, 17 had source of infection outside Punjab, 34 were police personnel, 23 were health care workers, six jail inmates and one BSF personnel. There were a total of 4,102 active Covid-19 cases in Punjab. Jalandhar district had highest 775 active cases, followed by 660 in Ludhiana, 622 in Patiala, 320 in Amritsar and 243 in Sangrur. Amritsar district has recorded the highest number of 68 Covid-19 deaths till now. There have been 59 deaths in Ludhiana, 38 in Jalandhar, 23 in Sangrur and 20 in Patiala. Although the government’s daily health bulletin put the number of positive cases surfacing during the day in Bathinda at 27, the district authorities said there were 29 cases. Similarly, Fazilka district officials reported 25 cases, one more than 24 in the bulletin, while the Barnala authorities said 11 persons tested positive for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sharpest-spike-in-new-cases-in-punjab-15-succumb-to-virus/articleshow/77194993.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat records 1,110 new Covid-19 cases, 21 deaths in 24 hours||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat climbed yet another high – 1,110 in 24 hours ending 5pm on Sunday at the rate of 46 Covid cases every 60 minutes. The state’s cumulative tally is now 55,822. It was the state’s fifth daily high in seven days and sixth consecutive day of 1,000-plus daily cases. The new cases include 299 from Surat district, 163 from Ahmedabad, 92 from Vadodara and 72 from Rajkot. Vadodara crossed 4,100 and Rajkot 1,400 cases with the update. Analysis of the figures reveals that compared to July 7, the state has recorded 42% rise in daily cases. In July, the state recorded cases between 601 and 700 for three days, 701 and 800 for five days, 801 and 900 for four days, and between 901 and 1,000 for eight days before climbing to 1,000-plus cases for the past six days. The state also recorded deaths of 21 patients, taking the death toll to 2,326. The deaths include 12 from Surat, three from Ahmedabad, two from Vadodara and one each from Gandhinagar, Jamnagar, Morbi and Rajkot. A total of 753 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total number to 40,365. The discharges include 168 from Ahmedabad, 147 from Surat, 57 from Rajkot and 34 from Vadodara. With the update, the state now has 13,131 active patients, which consists of 23.5% of the total Covid-19 patients so far. The share of deceased and discharged patients is 4.2% and 72.3% respectively. As of Sunday evening, Gujarat has 85 patients on ventilator. Gujarat carried out a record 21,708 tests in 24 hours, taking the total number to 6.42 lakh. The state health department claims that daily 334 persons per million are getting tested. As on Sunday evening, Gujarat had 3.64 lakh persons under quarantine, out of which 3.62 lakh were under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-records-1110-new-cases-21-deaths-in-24-hrs/articleshow/77187673.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Dist sees nearly 1,500 Covid cases in a week||Coimbatore: The district logged 220 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking its count to 3,459, of which 1,491 are active. At least 40% (1,416) of the total cases was reported in the past one week alone. On July 19, the district’s Covid-19 tally was 2,043. A health department official said, “About 85% of the cases in the past week was identified through contact tracing from the containment zones in the district. The remaining cases were identified at the fever camps.” Among the new cases is a sub-inspector who is attached to the Variety Hall Road police station, which was subsequently closed for disinfection drive. The police station would temporarily function out of a nearby marriage hall. The official said they would test about 30 police personnel from the station for Covid-19 on Monday. According to the official, the new cases were reported from Selvapuram, Pollachi, Ramanathapuram, Singanallur, Ganapathy, Kuniyamuthur, Town Hall and Ukkadam, among other areas, in the district. There weren’t any imported cases on Sunday. The district’s Covid-19 toll, meanwhile, went up by one to 39 after a 75-year-old woman with comorbidities such as type-2 diabetes mellitus and renal failure died in the ESI Hospital on Saturday. She was admitted to the hospital on Tuesday after she tested positive for the virus. She had eventually developed severe pneumonia. The state is, however, yet to record two other Covid-19 deaths in the city in its bulletin. A health department source identified the deceased as a 69-year-old man from Peelamedu, who was admitted to a private hospital on Monday after he tested positive for the infection and died on Saturday, and a 79-year-old man from Singanallur, who was admitted to a private hospital on Wednesday and died on Sunday. Meanwhile, 103 patients were discharged from the ESI Hospital and the Covid care centre at Codissia trade fair complex on Sunday. With this, 1,929 patients have recovered from the virus attack in the district so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-sees-nearly-1500-covid-cases-in-a-week/articleshow/77187625.cms||Nivedha Selvam
July 27, 2020||Nagpur||Asymptomatic patients to be home isolated in Nagpur||Nagpur: Amid rising cases in the city, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Monday decided to send asymptomatic patients to home isolation, provided they have adequate facilities. On Saturday, even as NMC started vacating four big quarantine centres — VNIT hostel, Pachpaoli police quarters, Symbiosis hostel and Vanamati — to start Covid Care Centres (CCCs), it had also decided to treat asymptomatic patients in home isolation under the supervision of zonal medical officers. TOI learnt about the key decision on Saturday, but held back the news following requests from officials. Confirming the development, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe told TOI that they "have decided accordingly", when asked about isolation of asymptomatic patients at home. The announcement was made during a press conference of district guardian minister Nitin Raut today. "All dedicated Covid hospital beds will be reserved only for Covid positive patients with symptoms, who are in a critical state," officials said. The move is likely to make several beds available at all three government hospitals — AIIMS, GMCH and IGGMCH — where all 1,200 beds are full right now. Health officials were unhappy over the NMC decision to admit all types of Covid patients despite them putting a strain on the civic body’s resources. On Thursday, TOI had highlighted how Nagpur was running out of beds because of asymptomatic patients occupying them for over 10 days. Another 2000 suspects were occupying the quarantine centres in the city. Amid spike in cases, the waiting time for new patients had increased and hospitals were finding it increasingly difficult to accommodate them. Some also complained of “poor facilities” at government hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/asymptomatic-patients-to-be-home-isolated-in-nagpur/articleshow/77202605.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 27, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Essential retail shops to open, entry-exit banned till July 31||KOLHAPUR: District collector Daulat Desai on Saturday issued an order announcing lockdown extension and relaxations related to the same. As per the order, people aged 60 and above will be prohibited to step out of the house, except for emergency medical situation. Desai also mentioned that entry and exit in the district will continue to be prohibited. However, other facilities such as fuel stations, banks, etc. will remain open for public. In addition, vegetable vendors will be allowed to conduct business considering the demand from a large section of citizens. In case of commercial complexes and markets, only essential shops will be allowed to operate. All private offices in the city and district will remain closed. As far as travelling is concerned, private vehicles will be allowed to ply with passenger limit. Meanwhile in Satara district, lockdown restrictions have been eased. All retail shops selling essentials will remain open from 9 am to 2 pm. However, resorts, malls and markets will remain closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/essential-retail-shops-to-open-entry-exit-banned-till-july-31/articleshow/77186895.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat records 1,110 new Covid-19 cases, 21 deaths in 24 hours||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat climbed yet another high – 1,110 in 24 hours ending 5pm on Sunday at the rate of 46 Covid cases every 60 minutes. The state’s cumulative tally is now 55,822. It was the state’s fifth daily high in seven days and sixth consecutive day of 1,000-plus daily cases. The new cases include 299 from Surat district, 163 from Ahmedabad, 92 from Vadodara and 72 from Rajkot. Vadodara crossed 4,100 and Rajkot 1,400 cases with the update. Analysis of the figures reveals that compared to July 7, the state has recorded 42% rise in daily cases. In July, the state recorded cases between 601 and 700 for three days, 701 and 800 for five days, 801 and 900 for four days, and between 901 and 1,000 for eight days before climbing to 1,000-plus cases for the past six days. The state also recorded deaths of 21 patients, taking the death toll to 2,326. The deaths include 12 from Surat, three from Ahmedabad, two from Vadodara and one each from Gandhinagar, Jamnagar, Morbi and Rajkot. A total of 753 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total number to 40,365. The discharges include 168 from Ahmedabad, 147 from Surat, 57 from Rajkot and 34 from Vadodara. With the update, the state now has 13,131 active patients, which consists of 23.5% of the total Covid-19 patients so far. The share of deceased and discharged patients is 4.2% and 72.3% respectively. As of Sunday evening, Gujarat has 85 patients on ventilator. Gujarat carried out a record 21,708 tests in 24 hours, taking the total number to 6.42 lakh. The state health department claims that daily 334 persons per million are getting tested. As on Sunday evening, Gujarat had 3.64 lakh persons under quarantine, out of which 3.62 lakh were under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gujarat-records-1110-new-cases-21-deaths-in-24-hrs/articleshow/77188946.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat records 1,110 new Covid-19 cases, 21 deaths in 24 hours||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat climbed yet another high – 1,110 in 24 hours ending 5pm on Sunday at the rate of 46 Covid cases every 60 minutes. The state’s cumulative tally is now 55,822. It was the state’s fifth daily high in seven days and sixth consecutive day of 1,000-plus daily cases. The new cases include 299 from Surat district, 163 from Ahmedabad, 92 from Vadodara and 72 from Rajkot. Vadodara crossed 4,100 and Rajkot 1,400 cases with the update. Analysis of the figures reveals that compared to July 7, the state has recorded 42% rise in daily cases. In July, the state recorded cases between 601 and 700 for three days, 701 and 800 for five days, 801 and 900 for four days, and between 901 and 1,000 for eight days before climbing to 1,000-plus cases for the past six days. The state also recorded deaths of 21 patients, taking the death toll to 2,326. The deaths include 12 from Surat, three from Ahmedabad, two from Vadodara and one each from Gandhinagar, Jamnagar, Morbi and Rajkot. A total of 753 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total number to 40,365. The discharges include 168 from Ahmedabad, 147 from Surat, 57 from Rajkot and 34 from Vadodara. With the update, the state now has 13,131 active patients, which consists of 23.5% of the total Covid-19 patients so far. The share of deceased and discharged patients is 4.2% and 72.3% respectively. As of Sunday evening, Gujarat has 85 patients on ventilator. Gujarat carried out a record 21,708 tests in 24 hours, taking the total number to 6.42 lakh. The state health department claims that daily 334 persons per million are getting tested. As on Sunday evening, Gujarat had 3.64 lakh persons under quarantine, out of which 3.62 lakh were under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gujarat-records-1110-new-cases-21-deaths-in-24-hrs/articleshow/77188945.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Sharpest spike in new cases in Punjab, 15 succumb to coronavirus||CHANDIGARH: Punjab on Sunday recorded the highest single-day spike of 534 Covid-19 cases, taking the state’s tally of positive cases to 13,218, out of which 4,102 are active. With 15 Covid deaths also recorded during the day, the toll stands at 306. Ludhiana district recorded the highest number of five deaths, followed by two each in Ropar, Amritsar and Gurdaspur, and one death each in Nawanshahr, Bathinda, Mohali and Jalandhar districts. As many as 513 Covid-19 patients were also discharged on Sunday from various hospitals across the state after their recovery, pushing the number of cured persons so far to 8,810. Of the latest cases, highest 95 were registered in Ludhiana district, followed by 83 in Patiala, 70 in Jalandhar, 45 in Amritsar, 42 in Hoshiarpur, 28 in Mohali, 27 in Bathinda, 24 in Fazilka, 17 in Sangrur, 16 in Gurdaspur, 15 in Tarn Taran, 13 in Ferozepur, 12 in Pathankot and 10 in Fatehgarh Sahib. Out of those, 17 had source of infection outside Punjab, 34 were police personnel, 23 were health care workers, six jail inmates and one BSF personnel. There were a total of 4,102 active Covid-19 cases in Punjab. Jalandhar district had highest 775 active cases, followed by 660 in Ludhiana, 622 in Patiala, 320 in Amritsar and 243 in Sangrur. Amritsar district has recorded the highest number of 68 Covid-19 deaths till now. There have been 59 deaths in Ludhiana, 38 in Jalandhar, 23 in Sangrur and 20 in Patiala. Although the government’s daily health bulletin put the number of positive cases surfacing during the day in Bathinda at 27, the district authorities said there were 29 cases. Similarly, Fazilka district officials reported 25 cases, one more than 24 in the bulletin, while the Barnala authorities said 11 persons tested positive for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sharpest-spike-in-new-cases-in-punjab-15-succumb-to-virus/articleshow/77188036.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: RMOs miss Covid-19 duties amid rift with health dept, containment work hit||CHANDIGARH: At a time when Covid-19 is spreading at an alarming rate in Punjab, the rift between rural medical officers (RMOs) and health department has widened, and many of them have stopped performing duties assigned for controlling the virus, affecting the containment work. The doctors of rural department are involved in confrontation with the health department, accusing it of discrimination and favouring their doctors while distributing Covid-19 related duties. Around 750 doctors of rural department have been placed under control of civil surgeons of their respective districts under the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897 (Covid-19 regulation 2020). The rural doctors, along with their counterparts of the health department and other medical staff, have been assigned on frontline duties — isolation ward, sample collection, contact tracing, screening at airports and flu corners – across the state. RMOs have also been trained for collecting swabs for testing. Now, civil surgeons of some of the districts have complained about RMOs not reporting for duties. Grappling with shortage of resources, Punjab is struggling to contain the spread of the virus and due to resources constrain the existing staff and doctors engaged in the fight against coronavirus are already overstretched. The state has so far registered 12, 216 positive cases of Covid-19, with 282 deaths. Taking serious note of the lapse, additional chief secretary for health Anurag Agarwal directed all the deputy commissioners to ensure that all RMOs perform all duties assigned to them for containment and management of coronvirus. In a communication sent to deputy commissioners, Agarwal stated that those who have not reported so far should immediately report to the concerned civil surgeons. They have been asked to seek explanation from rural doctors who are not following the orders. Terming the instructions to DCs as demotivating, Association of Rural Medical Officers president Dr Jagjit Bajwa said all the RMOs are working with full commitment. “The health department is deliberately trying to show rural doctors in bad light,” rued Bajwa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/rmos-miss-covid-duties-amid-rift-with-health-dept-containment-work-hit/articleshow/77191275.cms||Vinod Kumar
July 27, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Mining could hit tiger corridor in Ranthambore||JAIPUR: The natural corridor for tigers at the Ranthambore National Park (RNP) is on the verge of destruction due to the proposed mining activity in close proximity of big cats’ habitat. The activity has been proposed to supply raw materials for construction of the ambitious 1,250km Delhi-Mumbai Expressway project. Three companies, which were given the work by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), have applied for 36 short term permits (STP) for mining in Sakhawada area, barely 100 metres from the buffer zone and falling on the crucial natural corridor junction between Ranthambore National Park (RNP), Ramgarh Vidhashri Tiger Sanctuary and Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR). A senior mining officer told TOI, “While one company has applied to grant 20 leases measuring 0.9-hectare area, the other two companies have applied for 10 and six leases of the same size. The total leases will cover mining activity in 324 hectares.” As neither the mining department nor the firms have applied for NoCs, the forest department was caught unaware about the issue. Ranthambore Tiger Project field director Manoj Parashar said, “I am not aware about the exact location where the firms have applied for mining, since it’s outside the buffer area. However, if tiger movement is recorded in that area, we will intervene.” Green activists fear that the move will destroy the habitat corridor between tiger reserves, which is an important means of maintaining these ecological processes and may hold the key to the survival and adaptation of the species. Moreover, the need for keeping tiger corridors undisturbed is required to facilitate free movement of big cats from RNP, where they are facing space crunch. At present, the area is frequented by tiger T-110. Also, it has proved to be safe passage for many big cats including T-115, T-62, T-98, T-91. Tapeshwar Singh Bhati of Mukundra Wildlife and Environment Society said, “Mining should not be allowed at this junction as it connects RNP with territorial forest of the Sultanpur region of Kota district and Ramgarh. Rajasthan recently created the MHTR and proposed to upgrade Ramgarh as tiger reserve for Ranthambore’s ‘spillover’ tigers. The corridor between the reserves should be strengthened and not destroyed. Finding space crunch, a young three-year-old tiger T-115 moved to Ramgarh.” Near RNP, the expressway is also proposed to pass through the 22km stretch of Lakheri and Indargarh having tiger corridors. There is already some disturbance and space crunch in the area due to a railway line and existing four-lane highway. While environmentalists fear that the expressway project would cut through the tiger corridor in Sawai Madhpour district, making their dispersal a huge problem, forest officials claim a 3km tunnel and 5.5-metre underpasses are proposed, which will not disturb the movement, once the project is completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mining-threatens-to-destroy-tiger-corridor/articleshow/77188043.cms||Ajay Singh
July 27, 2020||Aurangabad||HC disposes application against wedding event participants||Auragnabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has disposed of a criminal application seeking action against people, including police officials and people’s representatives, who had gathered at a recent wedding reception organised by a high-profile resident of Gangakhed in Parbhani district. The petitioner had referred to newspaper clippings in support of his demand. On July 21, the HC bench comprising Justices Ravindra V Ghuge and M G Sewlikar disposed of the Gangakhed resident’s application with liberty to approach the local authority. The bench heard this CA with another criminal application filed by an Amalner (Jalgaon district) resident along with a criminal suo motu public interest litigation. Vinod Ashok Kharat had approached the HC through lawyer Y B Bolkar seeking intervention in the suo motu PIL being aggrieved by a wedding reception ceremony attended, among others, by “Several political representatives, people who are in the political arena and even by the revenue and police authorities, while praying for direction to take action against such violators who are the cause of the spread of Covid-19 pandemic.” Another criminal application was filed by Jyoti Dhanraj Bhoi through lawyer B R Waramaa, stating that the municipal council, Amalner, has not been sanitised even once. That the local administration has hardly shown any concern towards the residents. And also, that the chief officer of Amalner Municipal Council has not shown any sensitivity and there is laxity on the part of the council administration. This is the root cause of the growth of Covid-19 patients in the area and the situation is going from bad to worse.” In this matter, the high court issued notices to several authorities concerned including the Jalgaon district collector, the superintendent of police and others returnable on August 4, when this would be heard along with the original suo-motu PIL. The court has also directed: “In the meanwhile, without indicating that we have accepted the contention of the applicant in this application as gospel truth without hearing the respondents, we are directing respondents No. 42, 43, 44 and 46 to ensure that appropriate steps for the santisation of the area under the Amalner Municipal Council are taken and, we expect the report of compliance on the next date of hearing.” The court also made it clear that this application (Amlner) was being entertained only to ensure that “residents of such villages or municipal councils or talukas are not required to individually approach this Court with such applications. We are, therefore, making this direction applicable to all such places falling under the various districts amenable to the jurisdiction of this Bench in the interest of the public at large.” Senior counsel Rajendra Deshmukh, who was appointed amicus curiae by the HC in its criminal public interest litigation drew attention of the court toward private hospitals charging excessive fee for treatment of Covid 19. While referring to the earlier HC orders passed in this suo moto PIL, Deshmukh asserted the need for more action on the part of the respective district administrations to check private hospitals charging huge amounts for treatment of Covid 19. While placing the next date on August 4, Justices Ghuge and Swelikar observed: “We also deem it appropriate to direct that the local administration under the District Collectors of the districts, as head of such administration, should ensure that the list of private hospitals which are being utilised for COVID-19 patients’ treatment should be given a wide publicity and the administration should ensure that such private hospitals which have been declared as COVID-19 treatment hospitals, should implement the directions of the district administration in letters and spirit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-disposes-application-against-wedding-event-participants/articleshow/77186918.cms||Syed Rizwanullah
July 27, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur registers 328 cases, 5 deaths in a day||Kolhapur: Kolhapur district reported 328 fresh cases and five deaths on Sunday, taking the total number of patients to 4,385, of which, 2,837 are active ones. The fatality toll of the district stands at 117. Kolhapur municipal corporation’s assistant commissioner Chetan Konde said that there are 1.56 lakh people with co-morbid conditions in the district. Of these, 660 are categorised as high-risk. According to Konde, the civic body is currently focusing on the health of people with co-morbidities and ensuring they are not infected by coronavirus. Display rates and bed vacancies Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti has ordered private hospitals in the city to display the bed availability and charges fixed by the state government for treating Covid and non-Covid patients. He has also asked them to inform the KMC’s health department about any requirement of additional staff for treating Covid patients. Sangli reports 99 cases, 3 deaths Sangli district on Sunday reported 99 fresh Covid-19 cases and three deaths. With this, the total number of cases in the district has reached 1,643 while the death toll stands at 51. As of now, the district has 790 active patients. District guardian minister Jayant Patil has ordered the Miraj civil hospital to increase the number of beds to 200 for treating critical patients. 154 new Covid patients in Solapur rural, 6 deaths Solapur rural reported 154 Covid-19 cases and six deaths on Sunday. The total deaths in rural parts of the district has reached 75 while cases stand at 2,820. At present, there are 1,468 active cases in Solapur rural.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-registers-328-cases-5-deaths-in-a-day/articleshow/77186910.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Brothers booked for blocking house sale||Ahmedabad: A complaint of criminal intimidation was filed against three builders by a man who says they are obstructing the sale of his house. The builders are Babakhan Pathan and his brothers Mehboobkhan Pathan and Sharifkhan Pathan of Shah-e-Alam. The complaint was filed on Saturday by Sabirhusain Luhar of Memon Chawl in the same area. Police have filed a case under Section 294 (b) of the Indian Penal Code for uttering obscenities and under Section 506 (2) for criminal intimidation. According to the FIR lodged by Luhar, who hails from Indore, the three brothers live opposite his house. Luhar said that Babakhan has a long criminal history. Luhar said that he wants to sell his house but because people fear the three brothers, nobody is stepping forward. He said that Babakhan was accused in a murder case in 2011 but was later acquitted. Luhar stated in his complaint that on the night of July 24, Sharifkhan’s men came to his house and took him to the office of Nawab Builders in the Shah-e-Alam area. According to the FIR, the three brothers were present at the office. Luhar said that the brothers asked him if he wanted to sell his house. He said he then replied that because of them no one dares to buy it. The brothers were incensed and started abusing Luhar. Luhar said in the FIR that Sharifkhan told him that he would fix him in a false case while Babakhan abused him. Inspector J M Solanki of the Isanpur police station said that following the complaint cops searched for the accused but couldn’t find them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/brothers-booked-for-blocking-house-sale/articleshow/77187631.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||6 airport police station cops +ve||Ahmedabad: Six policemen of the airport police station have tested positive for Covid. They include surveillance sub-inspector J J Chaudhary. Inspector K C Rathwa of the airport police station said that all are asymptomatic and have been home quarantined. The six had tested positive on Friday. More than 500 police personnel in Gujarat have tested positive for Covid and eight have lost their lives, including a home guard jawan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/6-airport-police-station-cops-ve/articleshow/77187677.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Pune||PMR records 37 Covid-19 deaths, 2,773 positive cases||Pune: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) recorded 37 Covid-19 deaths on Sunday and a total of 2,773 patients tested positive for the coronavirus in the region. The region is inching towards crossing the 70,000-mark for positive cases. The progressive total of positive patients stood at 69,738 in the PMR areas. On Sunday, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) areas added 1,874 Covid-19 positive cases. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 663 positive cases, Pune rural 156, cantonments and other areas 80, a press statement issued by district heath officer Bhagwan Pawar mentioned. Of 37 deaths, 14 cases were from PMC areas, PCMC had 10 cases, Pune rural 8, cantonments and others had 5 cases. A higher number of citizens were discharged from medical care on Sunday than those reported Covid-19 positive in PMC areas. The PMC reported 992 new cases, while 1,175 patients were discharged. As per data provided, 13 deaths were reported in the municipal limits on Sunday, including 5 female and 8 male patients. The municipal areas had 18,494 active patients. Since the Covid-19 outbreak, 28,593 out of 48,057 people have been discharged post-recovery. According to PMC’s report, 682 critical patients are being treated at various hospitals whereas 105 patients are on ventilator support. More than 70% of the total deceased on Sunday were senior citizens, while 20% were middle-aged persons and 10% were in other age brackets. Patients, who lost their lives due to coronavirus, were also suffering from other medical issues, including respiratory problems, heart disease, blood pressure and pneumonia. Of 13 deaths reported in PMC areas, 10 patients were residents of areas under the civic body, whereas three were from other parts of the state admitted to local hospitals. Patients, who lost their lives on Sunday, were residing across Peth areas, Parvati, Yerawada, Hadapsar, Karvenagar, Shivajinagar, Wadgaon, Sinhagad road, Satara road, Nagar road and Kondhwa, the report stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-records-37-covid-19-deaths-2773-positive-cases/articleshow/77188038.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Hyderabad||On Bakrid, donate money if you can’t offer sacrifice: Fatwa||HYDERABAD: With Bakrid, the festival of sacrifice just a week away, Jamia Nizamia, South India’s leading Islamic deemed university, has issued a fatwa advising Muslims to donate money to the poor if they could not sacrifice sheep. Bakrid this year falls on August 1. Jamia Nizamia VC Mufti Khaleel Ahmed, who issued the fatwa (religious decree), said in Islamic jurisprudence there is no alternative to sacrificing sheep on the day of Bakrid or the following two days. But if one is not able to offer sacrifice on the prescribed three days in view of the Covid-19 situation, he or she should donate money equivalent to the cost of the sacrificial animal to the poor. The Mufti, however, added that one should explore all possibilities to sacrifice sheep on Bakrid or on the following two days. “The money should be donated to the poor only two days after the Bakrid,” he said. As many areas in Telangana and AP are reeling under Covid-19, it is better to take all precautions to ensure that the virus is not transmitted during the ritual of sacrifice. “Human life is precious and it should be safeguarded at any cost by following pandemic norms prescribed by local governments. One should not put one’s life or lives of others in danger,” he said. Referring to the demolition of two mosques in Telangana secretariat, Mufti Khaleel Ahmed said the mosques should be reconstructed on their exact sites. Construction of one big mosque in lieu of the two, is not acceptable. The Mufti said Muslim leaders should explore all legal and constitutional possibilities to ensure the demolished mosques are reconstructed at their original sites. The two mosques on the secretariat premises were built in princely state of Hyderabad more than a century ago. The state government demolished them as part of reconstruction of secretariat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/on-bakrid-donate-money-if-you-cant-offer-sacrifice-fatwa/articleshow/77188289.cms||Syed Akbar
July 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: RMOs miss Covid-19 duties amid rift with health dept, containment work hit||CHANDIGARH: At a time when Covid-19 is spreading at an alarming rate in Punjab, the rift between rural medical officers (RMOs) and health department has widened, and many of them have stopped performing duties assigned for controlling the virus, affecting the containment work. The doctors of rural department are involved in confrontation with the health department, accusing it of discrimination and favouring their doctors while distributing Covid-19 related duties. Around 750 doctors of rural department have been placed under control of civil surgeons of their respective districts under the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897 (Covid-19 regulation 2020). The rural doctors, along with their counterparts of the health department and other medical staff, have been assigned on frontline duties — isolation ward, sample collection, contact tracing, screening at airports and flu corners – across the state. RMOs have also been trained for collecting swabs for testing. Now, civil surgeons of some of the districts have complained about RMOs not reporting for duties. Grappling with shortage of resources, Punjab is struggling to contain the spread of the virus and due to resources constrain the existing staff and doctors engaged in the fight against coronavirus are already overstretched. The state has so far registered 12, 216 positive cases of Covid-19, with 282 deaths. Taking serious note of the lapse, additional chief secretary for health Anurag Agarwal directed all the deputy commissioners to ensure that all RMOs perform all duties assigned to them for containment and management of coronvirus. In a communication sent to deputy commissioners, Agarwal stated that those who have not reported so far should immediately report to the concerned civil surgeons. They have been asked to seek explanation from rural doctors who are not following the orders. Terming the instructions to DCs as demotivating, Association of Rural Medical Officers president Dr Jagjit Bajwa said all the RMOs are working with full commitment. “The health department is deliberately trying to show rural doctors in bad light,” rued Bajwa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/rmos-miss-covid-duties-amid-rift-with-health-dept-containment-work-hit/articleshow/77191273.cms||Vinod Kumar
July 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: RMOs miss Covid-19 duties amid rift with health dept, containment work hit||CHANDIGARH: At a time when Covid-19 is spreading at an alarming rate in Punjab, the rift between rural medical officers (RMOs) and health department has widened, and many of them have stopped performing duties assigned for controlling the virus, affecting the containment work. The doctors of rural department are involved in confrontation with the health department, accusing it of discrimination and favouring their doctors while distributing Covid-19 related duties. Around 750 doctors of rural department have been placed under control of civil surgeons of their respective districts under the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897 (Covid-19 regulation 2020). The rural doctors, along with their counterparts of the health department and other medical staff, have been assigned on frontline duties — isolation ward, sample collection, contact tracing, screening at airports and flu corners – across the state. RMOs have also been trained for collecting swabs for testing. Now, civil surgeons of some of the districts have complained about RMOs not reporting for duties. Grappling with shortage of resources, Punjab is struggling to contain the spread of the virus and due to resources constrain the existing staff and doctors engaged in the fight against coronavirus are already overstretched. The state has so far registered 12, 216 positive cases of Covid-19, with 282 deaths. Taking serious note of the lapse, additional chief secretary for health Anurag Agarwal directed all the deputy commissioners to ensure that all RMOs perform all duties assigned to them for containment and management of coronvirus. In a communication sent to deputy commissioners, Agarwal stated that those who have not reported so far should immediately report to the concerned civil surgeons. They have been asked to seek explanation from rural doctors who are not following the orders. Terming the instructions to DCs as demotivating, Association of Rural Medical Officers president Dr Jagjit Bajwa said all the RMOs are working with full commitment. “The health department is deliberately trying to show rural doctors in bad light,” rued Bajwa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rmos-miss-covid-duties-amid-rift-with-health-dept-containment-work-hit/articleshow/77188045.cms||Vinod Kumar
July 27, 2020||Chandigarh||With 127 more +ve, HP tally 2,176||Shimla: A total of 127 cases of Covid-19 were reported in Himachal Pradesh on Sunday, taking the number of cases reported in the state so far to 2,176. Also, 25 patients recovered — 15 from Sirmaur, six from Kangra, three from Hamirpur, and one from Una. Of the new cases, 41 were from Solan district, 21 from Kangra, 18 from Shimla, 16 from Sirmaur, 10 each from Mandi and Una, six from Hamirpur, and five from Bilaspur. According to the state government, 949 are active, 1,198 patients have recovered, and 12 have died. Solan has so far reported 548 cases, of which 366 are active, 176 have recovered and six have migrated out of state. Kangra has reported the second highest number of cases, 410, of which 94 are active, 311 have recovered, three have died and two have migrated out of state. Hamirpur has the third highest number of cases, 299, of which 20 are active, 276 have recovered, and three have died. Sirmaur has reported 242 cases, of which 179 are active, 55 have recovered, one has died and seven have migrated out of state. Una has reported 188 cases, of which 57 are active and 131 have recovered. Bilaspur has reported 73 cases, of which 22 are active and 51 have recovered. Chamba has total 93 positive cases, of which 24 are active and 68 have recovered. Kinnaur has reported 41 cases, of which 17 are active and 24 have recovered. Kullu has reported 24 cases, of which 15 are active and nine have recovered. Lahaul-Spiti district has reported four cases and all have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/with-127-more-ve-hp-tally-2176/articleshow/77188037.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress: Govt hiding info on Covid deaths||HYDERABAD: Former Congress minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir said on Sunday accused the TRS government of hiding the actual number of deaths caused by the novel coronavirus. “To show less mortality rate, many deaths due to Covid-19 are not being registered officially. The number of deaths shown in the bulletin issued by the government is just 10 percent of the actual number of bodies being cremated and buried at crematoriums and graveyards in the state. If so many deaths occurred due to reasons other than Coronavirus, then why are the last rites being performed secretly as per Covid-19 guidelines?” he asked. Stating that the government bulletin is pegging the death rate at 2.3% of the total number of positive cases reported so far, Shabbir said that various central agencies tracking the Covid-19 situation have repeatedly accused the Telangana government of under-reporting the number of cases. “Why is the state government not placing the actual number of cases and deaths in the public domain? CM KCR has been trying to downplay the threat due to coronavirus from the beginning and his negligent attitude has resulted in several lives being lost and thousands are suffering due to Covid-19. People would have taken proper precautions and many lives could have been saved had the government placed actual statistics in public domain,” Shabbir Ali said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-govt-hiding-info-on-covid-deaths/articleshow/77188040.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Jaipur||Children save baby rabbit from wild dogs in Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: Students of Adarsh Vidhya Mandir of Chodia village in Jaisalmer saved a baby rabbit from wild dogs and later brought it to their house. Sangaram and Raipal, students classes V and VI, were looking after the rabbit for last 21 days and had named it Jojo. They even made a house for it. They later handed over the baby rabbit to Desert National Park’s deputy forest officer Kapil Chandrawal. The DFP boosted the morale of the children and gave certificates to them. He later sent the baby rabbit to the veterinary medical officer. Besides, the Desert National Park has also increased the security of GIBs to save them from stray dogs and other wild animals. The measure comes after an eagle attacked a Great Indian Bustard and killed it in Ramdeora area. Moreover, dozens of wild dogs have been caught and released in far off places to protect other animals including GIB. The department has repaired the fencing in the closure for protection of GIB. Along with, patrolling has been increased. DNP, spread over 3,162sq km in Jaisalmer and Barmer districts, is a habitat for GIB. For the first time in three decades, a GIB has been killed by an eagle. There were around 1,500 GIBs five decades ago, but now their number is around 150. Highest number of GIBs are in DNP, numbering less than 40. In the census recently, only 19 GIBs were sighted. Wildlife enthusiast Radheyshyam Pemani said that for the conservation of GIBs, closures have been made in DNP. Most of the GIBs remain in the closure, while a few roam outside the DNP area, especially in Khetolai and field firing range area. They face threat from dogs and pigs in these areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/children-save-baby-rabbit-from-wild-dogs-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/77188049.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Chandigarh||Apple season at stake in Kullu: Assn||Manali: Amid the restlessness of tourism traders of Himachal Pradesh over no business for four months, now the apple growers of the state have reasons to worry as their efforts to ensure a hassle-free harvesting season during the Covid-19 pandemic have failed to yield the desired results. The growers in Kullu are spending sleepless nights as they are not able to bring labourers due to the pandemic constraints. Most of them are hesitating in applying for permits to bring labourers, as they will have to take responsibility of keeping them in quarantine before deploying at work. In some villages, the growers are still undecided whether they should take the risk of giving access to outsiders for apple work, given the fear of spread of the disease.Of the required thousands of workers, including harvesters, fruit carriers and packaging experts, less than 5% workforce has been brought from other states so far. Nepalese labourers are the first choice of the growers, as they have expertise in working in hilly terrains and transporting heavy fruits on steep trails. But, the India-Nepal controversy and the strict Covid-19 norms are the roadblocks. In this backdrop, most of the orchardists are betting on labourers from UP, Bihar and other states, who have no experience in this work. Apple is the main source of livelihood for most people of Himachal and is the main contributor to the state’s economy. Yuvraj Bhardwaj, an orchardist, who tried bringing labourers from Lakhimpur in UP, said he had no idea that he needed a prior permission from the local administration to bring outsiders. “I booked a tempo for Rs 65,000 to bring 14 labourers from Lakhimpur. Now I’ve stopped them mid-way. I could not get the permit on Saturday. I’ll try on Monday again. If it doesn’t work, I will send them back,” he said. Growers are demanding a single-window permit system for the growers. Apple buyers from other states have also arrived in limited numbers. Growers want the government to make the necessary arrangements for the buyers’ arrival, so that they could get better price for their harvest. Kullu Fruit Growers Association general secretary Rajiv Thakur said, “Keeping labourers in quarantine by growers is the main problem. They want the government to keep them in quarantine centres under strict checks and their Covid-19 test should be done before they leave the centre.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/apple-season-at-stake-in-kullu-assn/articleshow/77188057.cms||Suresh Sharma
July 27, 2020||Pune||Discharged people share difficulty of getting over trauma||Pune: A government employee was recently diagnosed positive for Covid-19 and he was put on ventilator support. Three weeks later, his condition improved and he was moved out of the intensive care unit (ICU). He continued to receive treatment for another two weeks and was finally discharged when his results improved. Through the process, the employee also had to battle the mental trauma that set in five days after he was admitted to the hospital.He shared, “I had not seen my wife, sons and grandsons for five weeks. The doctors, who treated me, were in PPE kits. They felt like aliens to me after a point. I did not have my mobile phone. The doctors would occasionally let me do a video call with my family. Slowly, being in the hospital became very traumatic for me. I would almost shout at the staff to move me out of the hospital and send me home. After the ICU, I was in an isolation ward. I would feel so lonely. It was very traumatic.”Head of the Isolation ICU at Ruby Hall Clinic Kapil Zirpe explained that patients admitted to ICU undergo such problems. “In addition, they’re dealing with the treatment and are constantly on medication. The doctors’ consolation hardly seems to matter. We have, therefore, enhanced our post-recovery care for patients by way of consultation and explaining to the family on extending the right support to patients,” he said.Dr Pradeep D’Costa, ICU head at KEM Hospital Pune, added, “When patients are discharged, a list of dos and dont's is given to them. Those with comorbidities get a more elaborate prescription. We also advise them to avoid dusty places and people suffering from any illness.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/discharged-people-share-difficulty-of-getting-over-trauma/articleshow/77188048.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid affected IVF access to many couples||HYDERABAD: The pandemic may have put an end to the plans of assisted reproduction or in vitro fertilization (IVF) for many couples, especially elder couples, say experts. Though the lockdown has been lifted and many healthcare facilities have opened, infertility treatment centres mostly continue to remain elusive. Only 800 of the 2,000-odd IVF clinics across the country have opened till June. Speaking at the ‘Reproductive Health e-Summit’, experts pointed out that many women are postponing their plans due to fear of Covid-19 infection. “This might be a problem for the older couples who may not have the time like their younger counterparts and it is wise to start their treatment at the earliest,” said Dr Jayesh Amin, clinical director, Wings IVF Group, Gujarat Chapter Secretary for Indian Fertility Society (IFS).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-affected-ivf-access-to-many-couples/articleshow/77188051.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong to file PIL against demolition||Hyderabad: The Congress has decided to file a public interest litigation in the High Court against the demolition of the places of worship in the secretariat premises. It has also directed the party’s district minority cell chairpersons to lodge complaints in the police stations of their jurisdiction against the razing down of the two mosques and a temple. “The Wakf Board is the custodian of the mosques but did not lodge a formal complaint. The land on which the mosques were located did not belong to the revenue department. .The Board should lodge FIR to seek custody of land belonging to the mosques and start its re-construction,” Telangana Congress minorities cell chairman Shaik Abdullah Sohail demanded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-to-file-pil-against-demolition/articleshow/77187653.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Vadodara||65-year-old woman dies of lightning||Vadodara: A 65-year-old woman died after being struck by lightning in Chhota Udepur district on Sunday. Kakudi Rathwa, a resident of Kumbhani village, was working in her farm, when she was struck. People in the neighbouring farms rushed to her help as they saw her lying unconscious. The woman was taken to the community health centre at Zoz village where she succumbed during treatment on Sunday. Chhota Udepur taluka received 8 mm of rainfall between 2 pm and 4 pm on Saturday. Naswadi taluka, too, was lashed by the same amount of rainfall during the same period. Other regions of the district largely remained dry. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/65-year-old-woman-dies-of-lightning/articleshow/77186548.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad woman glares at man for spitting, he rips off her T-shirt||AHMEDABAD: A 24-year-old woman has lodged a complaint at the Nikol police station stating that a man tore off her T-shirt and thrashed her after she only glared at him for spitting. The woman, a Nikol resident, said that on Saturday Ravi Rajput, from the same area, spat near her. She said that when she merely looked up at him without uttering a word, he ripped off her T-shirt and beat her. Her sister and mother who rushed to save her were also beaten by Rajput. Nikol police have lodged an offence against Rajput for sexual harassment under the Indian Penal Code’s Section 354 (A) (1) and for uttering obscenities under Section 294 (b). Section 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) has also been invoked. Assistant commissioner of police I-Division N L Desai said cops are hunting for the accused. The victim has said in her complaint that she knows the accused as they have a common friend. According to the complaint, the woman was visiting her sister when the assault occurred. “While the sisters were talking, Rajput was passing by and spat near the woman,” a police official said. Eventually, when local residents gathered on the spot, the accused stopped the assault and fled. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-glares-at-man-for-spitting-he-rips-off-her-t-shirt/articleshow/77187652.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Lucknow||Covid grips Magsaysay awardee, scales new peak of 449 in capital||LUCKNOW: Magsaysay awardee Sandeep Pandey was among the 449 patients who tested positive for novel coronavirus infection the city in past 24 hours till Sunday evening. It was the city’s biggest single-day spike so far, taking the case count to 6,307, of which 5,235 have been reported in July only — an average of 200 cases daily. Pandey got himself tested two days ago after developing influenza-like-symptoms. His report on Saturday came positive. He has opted for home isolation. “I have informed health officer about my status and given under-taking for self-isolation,” he told TOI. Nine jail inmates, 10 UPSRTC employees — four of Alambagh bus depot and six of Kaiserbagh depot — and six patients from the Base Hospital in Central Command also tested positive. Senior jail superintendent, Adarsh Prison, RN Pandey said eight inmates were found positive during random sampling of 47 inmates and 52 officials. One inmate of Lucknow district jail also tested positive. Area-wise Indira Nagar reported highest 22 cases followed by Alambagh 21 and Gomtinagar 20. While 17 cases each were reported from Talkatora and Chinhat, Bazaarkhala, Aliganj and Vikasnagar recorded 12 each, Thakurganj and Krishnanagar 11 each, Naka 10, Aminabad and Mahanagar 9 each and Hazratganj and Saadatganj eight. Explaining the reason for spike, health officials said cases are now being reported from across the city and in groups. For example, seven members of a family in Daliganj, six members of a Rajajipuram family in and five members of a Rajendra Nagar family were found infected, besides 28 of Khatikana locality in Kaiserbagh. “Infections in families are being reported in testing during contact tracing. In most families, some member had tested positive,” said chief medical officer Dr Rajendra Prasad Singh. Meanwhile, district administration has decided to rope in interns at KGMU to help doctors in managing Covid patients at hospitals and in home quarantine, said DM Abhishek Prakash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-grips-magsaysay-awardee-scales-new-peak-of-449-in-capital/articleshow/77188046.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
July 27, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Regularise med staff services’||Hyderabad: AICC secretary and former MP V Hanumanth Rao has written a letter to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao asking him to regularise the services of doctors, nurses and other employees in the health sector who have been working for years on a contract basis. Referring to the state government’s notification issued to recruit doctors and other health employees, the Congress veteran said those working on contract and outsourcing basis have the experience of handling patients. “It is advisable to regularise their services and utilise their experienced service in the times of coronavirus crisis. Other recruitments can also be taken up later,” he stated in the letter. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/regularise-med-staff-services/articleshow/77187663.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Pune||KCB’s temporary nod to shop operations over weekends||Pune: Effective crowd management at the busiest Khadki bazaar area in the last three days is likely to influence the Khadki Cantonment Board’s (KCB) decision of allowing shops to remain open on Friday, Saturday and Sunday in the future, KCB chief executive officer Pramod Kumar Singh said. The cantonment board had allowed all shops to open on these days in its order issued on July 23. “The shopkeepers and traders were not happy with our previous P1 and P2 model. They had requested us to let them operate on these three days to attract weekend crowd. We have agreed to their proposal for now. In the last three days, we witnessed good crowd management outside the shops in the bazaar area. Social distancing norms were being strictly followed. If the same scenario continues, we may let the traders operate on all days,” Singh told TOI. The Khadki bazaar area had recorded around 100 positive cases in the last three weeks. As many as six localities in its vicinity had been identified as micro-containment zones by the cantonment board. “Our health staffers will carry out intensive testing of citizens living in and around bazaar areas on the days the market is shut. We have demanded 500 antigen kits for carrying out rapid testing,” Singh added. “The Khadki bazaar area is highly congested andthe population density is also high compared to the other parts of Khadki. As a result, we have to take extra precautions to contain further spread. We have taken help from locals for various works,” a senior cantonment board official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kcbs-temporary-nod-to-shop-operations-over-weekends/articleshow/77188055.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Bareilly||Covid-19: Two-day rapid antigen test camp set up in Moradabad for quick diagnosis; 145 people undergo checkup on 1st day, 5 test positive||Bareilly: With a consistent hike in Covid-19 positive cases in UP’s Moradabad, the district administration and health department are on their toes to examine a maximum number of people for early detection of Covid-19. For this, the health department team and civil defence employees on Sunday jointly organised a two-day camp under Nagfani police station, where rapid antigen tests were conducted. The test – used to quickly obtain a diagnostic result – was conducted in the city and 145 people underwent the checkup, out of which five tested positive for the virus. Moradabad chief medical officer (CMO) Dr MC Garg said, “With a consistent hike in Covid-19 cases in the district, we have increased the frequency of testing. To ensure that maximum people can undergo tests, a two-day rapid antigen detection test camp has been organised by the health department. On the first day, close to 140 people – including adults, old-aged and children – were examined and of these, five people were found to be Covid-19 positive.” Officials and workers of the health department deputed at the camp organized near Chaurasi Ghanta temple in the Nagfani area said that those who tested positive, between ages two to 39, have been admitted to a private hospital. A target to check around 250 people per day has been set.A civil defense employee Ashish Chandra Trivedi said, “While most people are voluntarily coming up to get themselves checked, the team members are also individually reaching out to families to inform them about the camp so that they can get tested. The camp will be set up on Monday as well.”“The rapid antigen detection test for Covid-19 is used to quickly obtain a diagnostic result. Through the rapid antigen testing, a positive or negative result for Covid-19 testing is interpreted within 30 minutes. The health department will continue to organise similar camps in various parts of the city – especially in containment zones – irrespective of the weekend lockdown,” Garg added. So far, as many as 1,246 cases of Covid-19 have been reported from the district. Of these, 378 are active cases while 819 have been discharged. As many as 49 people have succumbed to the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/covid-19-two-day-rapid-antigen-test-camp-set-up-in-moradabad-for-quick-diagnosis-145-people-undergo-checkup-on-1st-day-5-test-positive/articleshow/77186052.cms||Maria Khan
July 27, 2020||Lucknow||Covid-19 kills 8 more patients, death toll in Lucknow jumps to 82||LUCKNOW: A leader of LMC employees, a prominent trader and a retired KKC Inter College teacher were among the eight patients in city who lost the battle with Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the toll to 82 so far. This is the city’s biggest single-day toll so far. As many as 62 of the total 82 patients have died in July. All the eight patients were hospitalised in an advanced stage of the disease with critically low oxygen levels and died due to respiratory failure as novel coronavirus had severely damaged their lungs by then. LMC fourth class employees’ association, Rajkumar (48) died at Era’s Lucknow Medical College and Hospital. He had developed pneumonia by the time he got himself tested. “We put him in ICU but he didn’t respond to the treatment,” said Dr MM Faridi, principal. Ram Kumar Shukla (75) died at SGPGIMS. He was admittted on July 8 and was on oxygen support. Similarly, a prominent garment trader of Aminabad died in Lokbandhu hospital. Three patients, including two elderly and middle-aged, died at KGMU. The first casualty was of a 49-year-old Alambagh resident, had developed pneumonitis (lungs inflammation), due to Covid-19 that led to acute drop in his blood oxygen levels and he died within 24 hours of admission, said KGMU spokesperson Dr Sudhir Singh . Another patient, a 65-year-old Chinhat resident gasping for breath at the time of admission died within hours. The third casualty in KGMU was of a Kaiserbagh resident (65), who was admitted on July 23, with high blood pressure and fluid accumulation in the chest. In Integral Institute of Medical Sciences, the first death was of a 62-year-old man from Thakurganj. He had diabetes and died within six hours of admission despite being put on oxygen support, said institute director Dr Zafar Idrishi. Similarly, a 70-year-old man, Alambagh resident, who came with acute respiratory distress died within 22 hours of admission. Meanwhile, a 65-year-old patient from Sultanpur suffering from rare disorder herpetic encephalitis — inflammation in brain — and pneumonitis caused by Covid-19 died at KGMU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/virus-kills-8-more-patients-city-death-toll-jumps-to-82/articleshow/77188052.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
July 27, 2020||Hyderabad||LRS: Plot owners demand refund||HYDERABAD: Several plot owners whose applications for regularisation of plots were rejected are demanding that their initial deposit money be refunded to them. Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) had received over 1.75 lakh applications as part of the Layout Regulation Scheme (LRS) offered in 2016 and ended in January 2020 after a series of extensions of last date. Of the total, the HMDA rejected over 20,000 applications stating that the plots were located either in full tank level area of various water bodies or were involved in some dispute or the other or the land belonged to Waqf board and endowments department among other reasons. The plot owners had paid a minimum Rs 10,000 deposit while submitting the applications. The plot owners were shocked when they were told that their money would not be refunded. “How can HMDA say it will not return our money when our applications have been rejected? We are already suffering with financial losses due to lockdowns,” said a plot owner. Another plot owner urged chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to intervene and direct the HMDA to refund their deposits. However, HMDA officials said they cannot refund the money. “The initial payment made by the applicants is a deemed fee towards processing of applications, inspecting the sites and rejecting their applications. The entire exercise involves lots of logistics and expenditure,” said a senior official involved in processing LRS applications. However, he said the HMDA is refunding the excess amount paid by the applicants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lrs-plot-owners-demand-refund/articleshow/77188054.cms||Roushan Ali
July 27, 2020||Jaipur||VHP sends holy water, soil from Ramdeora to Ayodhya||Jaisalmer: The Vishwa Hindu Parishad collected holy water and sacred ash from Baba Ramdev’s Samadhi and soil from holy Ramsarovar pond on Sunday and sent them to Ayodhya where the Ram Temple will be constructed. A programme was organized in front of the temple wherein prayers were offered.  The Samadhi of Baba Ramdev is included among the big religious places of the country and every year 80 lakh people come here to pay their obeisance. Prime minister Narendra Modi on August 5 will lay the foundation stone of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya in which water of mythological rivers and soil will be put. VHP’s district official Binjraj Singh Tanwar said that ground-breaking ceremony will take place on August 5 at Ayodhya for which water and soil of the holy pond was sent. “It is a very proud moment for every villager of Ramdeora and people of Rajasthan that holy soil and holy water of Ramdeora is being sent to Ayodhya,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/vhp-sends-holy-water-soil-from-ramdeora-to-ayodhya/articleshow/77188059.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: VIP tantrums add to govt hospitals’ chaos||HYDERABAD: Piping hot Irani chai, hot water at regular intervals and the best bed, preferably beside a window with a view. These are just a few of a plethora of demands put forth by ‘VIPs’ at government hospitals treating Covid-19 patients across the state. Unable to put up with these unreasonable demands, hospital staff are quitting in droves. “I want hot water to be served every two hours. Otherwise, you will see...you don’t know who I am,” screamed a Covid-19 patient, admitted to a government hospital, to doctors and other staff attending on the person. Except Gandhi Hospital to an extent, many government treatment centres were facing the ‘VIP’ temblors of supposedly well-connected patients. Doctors in private conversations with TOI told that many patients, especially those having links with politicians or those in power, have been putting forth unreasonable demands unmindful of the pandemic and severe manpower crisis. “Though there are beds, we don’t have enough staff as they are working in shifts or in isolation, by turns. These people don’t even follow Covid norms and stay near their bed. They loiter all over the the place. If we advise them, they take it causally,” a staff at Nature Cure Hospital said. Apart from their ever-expanding list of demands, they insist on longer stay at the hospital despite symptoms subsiding or turning negative. “I can call your higher-ups and complain against you if you don’t attend,” is the oft-quoted threat they use to pressurize staff to give to their demands. Some even don’t hesitate to misbehave with lower-level cadre, sources said. “They attack doctors, both with words and deeds. They are influential people, but the lower-rung staff, who actually go to the patient to give medicine, do check-up and attend on them don’t even even get acknowledged for their service. Some talk to them rudely, which demoralises us,” K Srilatha (name changed ), an attendant at a government facility, said. Rude behaviour by patients related to VIPs was also one of the reasons many outsourcing staff were quitting their jobs. At some hospitals, including Gandhi, many outsourcing nurses have resigned, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vip-tantrums-add-to-govt-hosps-chaos/articleshow/77188292.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 27, 2020||Lucknow||Covid patient dies, family blames doctors||LUCKNOW: Chief medical officer (CMO) ordered a probe into the death of a Covid-19 patient, who allegedly died as he could not be shifted from Lokbandhu hospital to a critical care Covid facility in time even though his condition deteriorated. The family and relatives of the deceased, a garment trader, alleged that he died due to negligence of doctors and officials. The 58-year-old patient, a prominent garment trader of Aminabad, died after battling with the disease for four days. The trader’s son, Rahul Jagwani alleged that his father’s condition kept deteriorating, but he was not shifted to super-speciality hospital despite repeated requests for past two days. “Doctors didn’t pay adequate attention. Ambulance was arranged when my father stopped breathing and was declared dead at the time of shifting to KGMU,” he alleged.Lokbandhu is Level-2 Covid hospital meant for moderate patients. Some leaders of traders’ organisation also reached the spot and staged protest.  CMO Dr Rajendra Singh rushed to the hospital and ordered a probe assuring strict action if anyone is found guilty. Denying allegations of negligence, chief medical superintendent Lokbandhu hospital, Dr Amita Yadav said the patient was on oxygen support and she had requested district administration two days ago to shift him to a critical care facility. TOI repeatedly tried to contact district administration officers for comments in vain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-patient-dies-family-blames-docs/articleshow/77188065.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Jaipur||Murder suspect found dead in Alwar||ALWAR: A murder suspect, who was on the run for past five days, was found dead in the fields in Alwar on Sunday. The accused was being traced in the murder of Sanjay Yadav who was killed in Bansur police station area on July 21. The deceased accused was identified as Mahipal Gurjar and while the police suspect it to be case of suicide, his family registered a case of murder. DSP Behror, Atul Sahu said, “We had been looking for Gurjar for last few days as he was the prime suspect in Yadav’s killing. On Sunday, Gurjar’s body was found in the fields and preliminary investigation suggests that he committed suicide.” However, police found no suicide note and two of the accomplices of Gurjar who were also allegedly involved in Yadav’s murder surrendered before the cops while the police are still looking for other two. “We are looking at all possibilities and at present cannot rule out murder as well. Gurjar body was found with a country-made weapon which was in his hand,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/murder-suspect-found-dead-in-alwar/articleshow/77188064.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Residents protest land grab, accuse officials of foul play||HYDERABAD: Residents of Rajendra Reddy Nagar Colony (RRNC), Chandanagar, on Sunday protested against the construction of a structure on an open land in their locality by a group of unidentified persons. They alleged that some people, over a period of years, fabricated documents with fake signatures and tried to grab two pieces of land measuring one acre and 1,800 square yards, respectively. “We are protecting the parks in our locality with the help of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), but a week ago, the encroachers barricaded the park and began construction work in the parks,” said a protester. Around 50 residents gathered in front of the open spaces with placards and raised slogans of ‘Save parks- we want justice.’ The protesters also tied a flex banner on the barricaded site and slammed the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) officials for granting permission for construction to the encroachers. “How can GHMC grant permission when the land is marked as a park,” questioned a member of Rajendra Nagar Welfare Association. Another resident said that land grabbers took advantage of the pandemic and lockdown. “GHMC gave a letter in 2019 which clearly states the land belongs to the corporation, irony is that the same corporation approved fake layouts under Layout Regularisation Scheme (LRS),” said another protester who accused the GHMC officials of corruption. “Not even one person from Rajendra Reddy Nagar Colony called me up today and complained about the encroachment. The park will be inspected on Monday,” said N Sudhamsh, who took charge as GHMC deputy commissioner of Serilingampally a couple of months ago. The price of the two pieces of land is said to be worth crores o rupees, according to sources. Rajender Reddy Nagar Colony was developed on a parcel of land spread over 19 acre 20 guntas as per the draft layout of the HUDA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/residents-protest-land-grab-accuse-officials-of-foul-play/articleshow/77188068.cms||Nabinder Bommala
July 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Act against encroachers, urge locals||HYDERABAD: RRNC residents on Sunday demanded stricter vigilance in municipalities and municipal corporations to protect lung spaces which don’t fall under GHMC limits. Pointing towards a piece of land located in Manikonda measuring around 5,000 square yards which is allegedly being encroached upon, residents demanded action against the accused. The price of the land is around Rs 60,000 to Rs 65,000 per square yard. They also rue that officials have turned a blind eye towards builders deviating from the approved building plan. “GHMC has an exclusive directorate headed by an IPS officer to tackle encroachments, other urban local bodies should have an exclusive wing too,” said a members of Tirumala Hills owners welfare association. They said that signboards surfaced overnight in their locality. “Unidentified people have installed boards claiming the park is private property. The authorities should take action against such offenders,” said another resident of Tirumala Hills, Manikonda. Meanwhile, a town planning official from Manikonda municipality denied the allegations saying that municipal authorities were dumping mud inside the park to level the ground. “ The park is not being encroached upon, instead we are developing the park. Mud is being dumped to level the surface,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/act-against-encroachers-urge-locals/articleshow/77188061.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Pune||Trio cite ‘evil spirit’, try to gain entry to bungalow||Pune: An 84-year-old retired medical practitioner from Bhandarkar Road was shocked when an unknown trio turned up at his door around 2.30am on July 23 claiming that they had come to check his and his neighbour’s bungalows for evil spirits. The octogenarian, however, showed presence of mind and did not open the door despite the trio’s repeated requests. After about half-an-hour the trio left the bungalow empty-handed. “The incident remind me of the Joshi-Abhyankar murders in Pune that took place in 1976-77,” the early man told TOI under the condition of anonymity. “In the morning I approached the Deccan Gymkhana police and filed a complaint application,” the medical practitioner said. “On Thursday (July 23) I woke up around 2.30am after hearing the door bell and found three unknown men standing outside the door,” he said. One of them told him that they had come to check for evil spirits in his and the neighbouring bungalows and asked him to open the door. When the man asked the trio how they came to know about it, they told him that it had become a frequent occurrence on Ferguson College Road, Prabhat Road and even BMCC Road. When he did not open the door for half-an-hour, they left on two motorcycles. Assistant inspector C M Suryavanshi of the Deccan Gymkhana police told TOI, “We visited the spot on Sunday. There are no CCTV cameras in the lane. It could be a new modus operandi to gain entry into houses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trio-cite-evil-spirit-try-to-gain-entry-to-bungalow/articleshow/77188063.cms||Mihir Tanksale
July 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Ward number 31 struggles with no power, water||Ludhiana: The residents of ward number 31 are suffering due to interrupted electricity and water supply since Saturday night. The residents said power supply snapped around midnight and has been erratic ever since. Because of this, water supply is disrupted too as tube wells could not be functional without power. The officials said water tankers will be provided in these areas. The residents from Gurmail Nagar, Giaspura Flats and Maha Maya Nagar were the worst affected. The residents from affected areas claimed that for almost three days they were facing water scarcity problem due to power cuts. Despite complaints to councillor Sonia Sharma, nothing has been done in this regard, they said. Situation has come to such a pass that drinking water is also not available at home anymore, they said. Meanwhile, the civic officials said they were not aware of any power disruption in the area but said they will organise water tankers to cater to the immediate need. Councillor Sonia Sharma said the electricity was interrupted since 12 in the night on Saturday and in the absence of electricity, tube wells could not be made functional. She said she is making alternate arrangements for providing water in these localities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ward-number-31-struggles-with-no-power-water/articleshow/77186949.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 8,500 commerce seats vacant after Round 1||AHMEDABAD: About 8.5k seats remained vacant after allocation of seats for five commerce courses in Gujarat University affiliated colleges. Of the total 35.5k students included in the merit list, and about 27k were allotted college seats leaving 8.5k seats vacant after the first round of admissions, said sources. Students who have been allotted seats will have to pay the fees by July 29 to confirm the admission. Those who do not pay fees in time will have to participate in the second round. The dates for the second round are yet to be announced. In all, 36.7k seats were considered by the Admission Committee for the colleges associated with the University. Of these a total of 35.5k seats were included in the merit list. The provisional merit list declared for admission to five commerce courses at colleges affiliated to Gujarat University had left out 996 students after their online forms were left incomplete.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/8-5k-commerce-seats-vacant-after-round-1/articleshow/77187666.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Pune||Pune: Jehangir hospital nurses protest against long hours||PUNE: As many as 200 nursing staff from Jehangir Hospital on Sunday protested against long duty hours at the Covid ICU ward and sought special Covid-19 allowances for working. The protesters are mainly from Maharashtra and Kerala. They alleged that the hospital has deployed only three nurses for 16 beds in the Covid-19 ICU ward and they are forced to work for 12 hours with PPE kits. They went back to work after taking into account the nurses’ concerns. “It is against government guidelines,” Mathew John, joint secretary of the United Nurses Association, Maharashtra chapter, said. “Currently, staff to patient ratio at the hospital is 1:8 or 1:9. Our nurses are working more or nearly 12 hours a day. In the government hospital, nurses work for seven days and are quarantined for the next seven days. At Jehangir, they get only two days’ leave. This is against government norms,” he added. Jibin TC, president of Maharashtra chapter of the United Nurses Association, told TOI on Sunday, “The hospital doesn’t have adequate nurses. The hospital should hire more nurses.” He said the nurses had demanded Covid allowances and a hike in salary which the hospital management has refused. The association has decided to seek the district administration’s intervention. “The district administration had promised to provide assistance and address our concerns about duty hours and salaries. We will put forth our problems before them in the next two days,” he added. Meanwhile, the hospital in its official statement, said due to the current pandemic situation, the hospital is in no position to give any salary increments. “The hospital is regular in giving monthly salary on time without any reduction or deferment across the hospital. All hospitals across the state and country are going through the same hardships and Pune being the current epicentre of the disease, the load on the hospital is very high,” the statement said. Jehangir Hospital’s management will take necessary action against people trying to violate the “decorum of patients’ care and will also make necessary arrangements to ensure that the patient care does not suffer,” the statement added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/jehangir-hospital-nurses-protest-against-long-hours/articleshow/77188074.cms||Umesh Isalkar
July 27, 2020||Gurgaon||With most Covid deaths in Haryana, Faridabad overtakes Gurugram||GURUGRAM: With 123 deaths, Faridabad has overtaken Gurugram to become the district with the highest number of deaths in the state, according to data from the district. However, state health department data shows both the districts still have 120 deaths each. Till Thursday, both the districts had 120 deaths each, but Faridabad added three new deaths to its toll on Saturday, taking the total to 123. The state currently has 389 deaths. While Faridabad saw its first death on April 30, a spike in fatalities was observed from June 15 onwards. After reporting only five and 15 deaths respectively in the first and second week of June, the number of deaths rose to 25 in the third week in Faridabad. The district further added 17 new deaths in the last week of June. Similarly, the district reported 19 deaths in the first week of July, followed by nine deaths each in the second and third week and 10 deaths in the fourth week of the month. However, discrepancies in the state and district data were also reflected in other numbers. According to the district data, Faridabad has 7,579 total Covid cases whereas the state bulletin shows 7,474 cases for the district. Similarly, though the district bulletin highlights that it has 1,624 active cases, the state bulletin shows 52 less for the district. The discrepancies started on July 13, when the district reported 245 new Covid cases and two deaths but the state data showed no new cases and no deaths on the day. A senior official from the Faridabad health department said that they are regularly sharing the data with the state but even then there are discrepancies. “We have no clue why there are discrepancies in the number of deaths and total cases in Faridabad,” the official added. Meanwhile, Haryana FDA commissioner Ashok Meena, who also deals with the Covid health bulletin for the state, said that the department carries out an audit before putting up the bulletin. “We scrutinise all data that we get from districts before putting it out. Sometimes we face issue of duplication of data. It is difficult to take data down after putting it on the website, so we crosscheck it several times. Hence, on some occasions, the update is delayed by a day or two," he said. When asked why the discrepancy is only for Faridabad, Meena assured a solution soon. However, even after the Sunday evening bulletin, the discrepancies remained. When asked why only data from Faridabad has to be scrutinised twice, Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, nodal officer for Covid-19 in Haryana, said, “We are aware of the discrepancies and are fixing the Faridabad Covid data problem at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/with-most-covid-deaths-in-state-faridabad-overtakes-gurgaon/articleshow/77189697.cms||Ipsita Pati
July 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 15 high-rises, two slums on list of 31 containment zones||KOLKATA: Apartments — both stand-alone buildings and complexes — account for 15 of Kolkata’s 31 containment zones. Slums constitute two containment zones on the list and the rest are mixed occupancies. According to police sources, almost 50% of all Covid cases reported in the first 25 days in July are from apartments. In south Kolkata, Bhowanipore has four containment zones. All of them are complexes. All four containment zones in Alipore, too, are complexes. Cops said several more complexes, which are not in the containment list now, have reported fresh Covid cases. “At least two complexes, one in Jodhpur Park and another in Ballygunge, have reported fresh infections after they allowed domestic helps and support staff to their homes. These support staff usually came from local neighbourhoods, which had some Covid cases,” said a KMC health department officer. Police and KMC believe that the reason for the rise has everything to do with the unlockdown period. “Complexes that were initially keeping their premises locked up, have now let their guard down, with many allowing visitors and house help,” said an officer. “An entire complex in Bhowanipore is now under containment after six of its inhabitants in the servant quarters developed Covid,” said a south-division officer. Also, with offices resuming, many residents are travelling to work every day. Residents are also getting out for non-essential activities, officials said, pointing to the huge rush at markets on both Friday and again on Sunday. KMC and police said Kolkata’s problem is not unique. Across cities, the trend is the same. Sources pointed out last month in Mumbai, the number of new Covid-19 cases being reported from residential buildings and high-rises had seen 108% increase, while slums and other congested areas have reported 60% jump, the Mumbai civic body reported recently. In Delhi, a huge percentage of containment zones are apartments. The bigger complexes have already introduced multiple steps realizing the needs of the day. At South City, e-commerce delivery personnel and those delivering food were allowed inside only after their temperature was checked. Even then, they could go till the reception area. “Residents were asked to collect their belongings from the reception later. Residents with medical emergencies and in the medical profession had no restriction on movements,” said Manak Daga, president of the residents’ association. Many complexes had also asked their facility management staff to stay back on the campuses. Residents are pooling in funds for the additional cost.Both KMC and police have drawn up timetables, which they are following each day to reach maximum apartments, especially those in the containment zones. (With inputs from Tamaghna Banerjee)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/15-high-rises-2-slums-on-list-of-31-containment-zones/articleshow/77188071.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 27, 2020||Chandigarh||AAP to Punjab: Confirm NHM frontline staff||Chandigarh: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has asked the Punjab government to fix regular pay scale for all contractual employees who had been providing services under the National Health Mission (NHM) for years and for multipurpose health workers on the frontline against Covid-19 pandemic. Harpal Singh Cheema, leader of opposition, and AAP MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan said in a statement that the Punjab government should regularise all employees working under NHM, like other state governments. Cheema said the pandemic had taught the people of Punjab and the state government about the importance of government health facilities. He added people in Punjab had become dependent on private hospitals and private doctors. But in the midst of such an epidemic, doors of a majority of private hospitals had been closed and the treatment of those who were open was beyond the reach of the common man, he added. He also appealed to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu to upgrade government hospitals and dispensaries in the state with a special increase in the budget for health services on the lines of Delhi government. He added that in addition to recruitments, the staff who had been serving under NHM and other categories for a long time should be regularised without any test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/aap-to-punjab-confirm-nhm-frontline-staff/articleshow/77188072.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Lucknow||LDA to pick trash from two areas||Lucknow: Door-to-door garbage collection from households in Gomtinagar Extension and Jankipuram Extension is expected to start by the end of the month. Lucknow Development Authority has decided to hire a private agency for door-to-door and roadside garbage collection in the two areas with over 10,000 households. Residents will have to pay a user charge of Rs 20 per month to avail the facility. At present, people in the two localities have hired private agencies on their own for garbage disposal as no facility was provided by LDA since inception. “The state government had directed in December to transfer these localities from under LDA’s jurisdiction to LMC so that residents can get civic amenities. However, the transfer process is taking time, hence we have decided to hire a private agency for garbage collection and disposal,” said LDA chief engineer Indu Shekhar Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lda-to-pick-trash-from-two-areas/articleshow/77188076.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludh to get 24/7 canal-based water supply project||Ludhiana: With cabinet approval to 24/7 canal-based water supply project in Amritsar and Ludhiana, the industrial city is finally getting its most awaited project that has been hanging fire for over a decade. Even if there is political will right now, this World Bank-funded project is still likely to have a bumpy ride ahead, as it comes with certain conditions attached. The one that is most likely to cause a problem, considering first the urban local bodies and then the assembly elections 2022 are about to be played out, is the condition of the World Bank that rates are revised. For, according to the revised rates, exemption that was given to consumers living in houses up to 125 square yards of land has been taken away and only single-storey 50 square yards residential properties will get an exemption from the water tariff while rest will have to pay the bills. This will not curry favour with the residents definitely and with race for assembly elections likely to start in 2021, it is to be seen how far political will persist. Then there is the condition that water tariffs should be increased on slab rates basis instead of flat rates. This will be a logistical nightmare for the civic body as well as state government, as it would involve meter reading. Already, one could see how this is going to to play out. The civic body said it has already sent a draft of revised water tariff rates to the state government for implementation, but no decision has been taken over it. The sources said government has to notify this draft so that it could be implemented, but due to the upcoming elections in 162 urban local bodies, the notification is put on hold. The committee had even proposed that from April 1, all new water supply connections should be metered ones, but since the draft is not implemented yet, this could not be implemented in the city. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, however, said, “This project is important for the city as ground water is depleting really fast. The cabinet has approved the project for the city and now we will go ahead with the process to acquire land for water treatment plants are to be installed in phase 1.” He however said as far as revised water tariff and meters are concerned, the decision has to be taken at state government level.Additional commissioner of municipal council Sanyam Aggarwal said, “There is no major formality left on our side as now process to acquire the land will take one and half months after which tenders will be floated. Amritsar has acquired the land already.” He said the first phase of the project is likely to go smoothly as it involves construction of water treatment plant, but in the second phase when they will start digging the city for laying water supply lines, there will be difficulties. According to him, they have a three-year deadline to complete the project. “It is the most important project for Ludhiana so government is considering it a priority,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludh-to-get-24/7-canal-based-water-supply-project/articleshow/77186975.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Chided for TV binge, 16-yr-old kills self||Hyderabad: A 16-year-old class 10 student killed herself in Yousufguda, allegedly after her parents scolded her for watching too much TV. The deceased was identified as K Sunderleela. On Friday, her father scolded her and asked her to wake up early and help in household work instead of watching TV. The girl killed herself the next day in the hall of her house when parents were not at home. A suspicious death case was registered. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chided-for-tv-binge-16-yr-old-kills-self/articleshow/77187675.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Ludhiana||Pedalling legacy: This bicyclist paints the town ‘green’||Ludhiana: A 57-year old cyclist is on a ‘legacy green’ mission. On a lazy Sunday ‘quarantine-at-home’ day, when most stayed indoors, he took advantage of the empty roads and biked around the city planting saplings grown from the trees planted by his father.“My papa, Mohinder Singh, who passed away in 2012, had planted a mulberry tree outside our workplace. From its fruits the seeds sprout and new plants grow. I had placed those tiny saplings into polybags for them to grow. After around two years, these plants are ready for re-plantation. Thought of planting these on my favorite riding route, starting from Jodhan Sarabha bridge up to bridge near Jassowal to Kila Raipur, where I can watch them growing and can take care of them too,” said Hapreet Singh, a businessman from Dugri Phase Two. “Today morning I started from one end and returned home after covering nearly 45km. Along the way, I ventured into new kutcha paths along the fields and can say today definitely was lovely day for cycling.” He added that he does grow fruits and vegetables at home and has deep love for nature.The cyclist, who holds the distinction of participating in MTB Shimla for four consecutive years from 2014, said during lockdown when he couldn’t go for cycling he really missed the activity. He advocated that cycling being an immunity buster as well as a good de-stressing exercise, more people should take it up during this time. Recalling his journey, Harpreet said when he was in the third standard, he had a bet with his father that if he topped in examination in his class he would have to get him a bicycle. “That was the beginning of my love for bicycles and cycling. These days I love to bike through countryside.”“Mostly, I go alone. However, on Sundays I do go for cycling with some friends,” said Harpreet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pedalling-legacy-this-bicyclist-paints-the-town-green/articleshow/77186972.cms||Shariq Majeed
July 27, 2020||Faridabad||With most Covid deaths in Haryana, Faridabad overtakes Gurugram||GURUGRAM: With 123 deaths, Faridabad has overtaken Gurugram to become the district with the highest number of deaths in the state, according to data from the district. However, state health department data shows both the districts still have 120 deaths each. Till Thursday, both the districts had 120 deaths each, but Faridabad added three new deaths to its toll on Saturday, taking the total to 123. The state currently has 389 deaths. While Faridabad saw its first death on April 30, a spike in fatalities was observed from June 15 onwards. After reporting only five and 15 deaths respectively in the first and second week of June, the number of deaths rose to 25 in the third week in Faridabad. The district further added 17 new deaths in the last week of June. Similarly, the district reported 19 deaths in the first week of July, followed by nine deaths each in the second and third week and 10 deaths in the fourth week of the month. However, discrepancies in the state and district data were also reflected in other numbers. According to the district data, Faridabad has 7,579 total Covid cases whereas the state bulletin shows 7,474 cases for the district. Similarly, though the district bulletin highlights that it has 1,624 active cases, the state bulletin shows 52 less for the district. The discrepancies started on July 13, when the district reported 245 new Covid cases and two deaths but the state data showed no new cases and no deaths on the day. A senior official from the Faridabad health department said that they are regularly sharing the data with the state but even then there are discrepancies. “We have no clue why there are discrepancies in the number of deaths and total cases in Faridabad,” the official added. Meanwhile, Haryana FDA commissioner Ashok Meena, who also deals with the Covid health bulletin for the state, said that the department carries out an audit before putting up the bulletin. “We scrutinise all data that we get from districts before putting it out. Sometimes we face issue of duplication of data. It is difficult to take data down after putting it on the website, so we crosscheck it several times. Hence, on some occasions, the update is delayed by a day or two," he said. When asked why the discrepancy is only for Faridabad, Meena assured a solution soon. However, even after the Sunday evening bulletin, the discrepancies remained. When asked why only data from Faridabad has to be scrutinised twice, Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, nodal officer for Covid-19 in Haryana, said, “We are aware of the discrepancies and are fixing the Faridabad Covid data problem at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/with-most-covid-deaths-in-state-faridabad-overtakes-gurgaon/articleshow/77188069.cms||Ipsita Pati
July 27, 2020||Hyderabad||RWA axed trees to build hall: Residents||Hyderabad: Residents of Shakti Nagar lashed out at the resident welfare association members of their area for building a community hall in the park land by axing trees. “On one hand the government speaks about increasing green cover and on the other, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) officials allow felling of trees. A hall is being constructed on the 200 square yards of park land. Construction activity in the area should be termed encroachment,” said a residents. Meanwhile, members of the association have said that the hall is being built to store the equipment needed to maintain the park. “We are constructing the hall to store the equipment. Only two families have a problem with the construction,” said a member of Shakti Nagar Welfare Association. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rwa-axed-trees-to-build-hall-residents/articleshow/77188075.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Kolkata||With rising cases, state positivity rate crosses 7%||Kolkata: With the spurt in Covid-19 confirmed cases, the test positivity rate in West Bengal is on the rise. Though this parameter indicates the spread of the infection is still lower than the national average, this index is climbing up sharply over the past few weeks. Currently, the positivity rate in the state has crossed 7% mark. Health experts said this rate could go up as high as 10% in the next few weeks. The national positivity rate currently is about 12%. “Test positivity rate is the percentage of people, who are found infected out of all the samples tested, indicating the spread of the infection. We are not conducting enough tests and there is no sign of awareness among people on obeying preventive norms. Hence, we will see further rise,” said associate professor Sumon Poddar Institute of Child health, also in-charge of molecular biology wing of the hospital. The positivity rate had gone down as low as 2.7% in June beginning. But it climbed up steadily to stand at 3.8% by June end. But with daily new cases crossing 2,000 in the past nine days, it has now shot up to 7.3%. The government has scaled up the number of test a little over by 16,000 on Monday. “Earlier, we were citing about lower denomination for the higher positivity rate. Now, the state has scaled up tests to a reasonable number if not the ideal mark, therefore the lower denomination is no longer an excuse. The infection is spreading fast and number will continue to rise exponentially. We can only hope for the virus to lose its virulence gradually, a vaccine or herd immunity,” said infectious disease control specialist Debkishore Gupta of CMRI. The hospital bed occupancy rate across the state was as low as 19% in June beginning. It grew to 23% in July beginning and touched 42% on Sunday. On Sunday, the state clinical establishment commission chairperson justice (retd) Ashim Kumar Banerjee said there should be facilities for home collection and walk-in test kiosks but for that the private sector must improve manpower and infrastructure . (With inputs from Debashis Konar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/with-rising-cases-state-positivity-rate-crosses-7/articleshow/77188078.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 27, 2020||Jaipur||Micro-level monitoring of schemes to improve performance of Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The rural development and panchyati raj department has introduced “micro-level monitoring” of the progress of work under various schemes to improve the state’s performance under PM Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan (GKRA) — meant for providing livelihood to returnee migrant workers. According to the data available with the department, the state’s progress under GKRA has been 28% of the total target in 35 days. Under PMAY-G, 31.48% of the target has been achieved so far in completion of building houses and 16% in sanctioning of new houses. Under Shyama Prasad Mukherjee – Rurban Mission, the achievement has been 6.5% so far and under Swachh Bharat Mission the target achieved is 10.44%. The department has intensified and strengthened its monitoring by calling up the district collectors on a daily basis to seek report on the progress of work. In some districts, according to officials, the directions issued by the nodal department are not complied with. “The collectors will be reprimanded for slow progress of work in their respective districts. A daily report on the progress of work will be sought. Collectors, too, should seek reports from the block development officers (BDOs) on a daily basis. They will also be instructed to carry out daily monitoring. In this manner, responsibilities of the collectors and BDOs will be fixed,” said rural development department special secretary P C Kishan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/micro-level-monitoring-of-schemes-to-improve-performance-of-state/articleshow/77188081.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Goa||Discuss budget in Nov-Dec, says Khaunte||Panaji: Independent MLA Rohan Khaunte has written to the speaker saying that key issues should be taken up for discussion at the one-day session of the assembly instead of rushing through bills and the state budget. Khaunte has called for a discussion on the pandemic, restructuring of the budget and educational system and the environmental impact of major projects being undertaken in the state. He also said that the budget and the amendment bills should be taken up in November-December when a lengthier session of the House can be convened. Khaunte has asked the Chief Justice of India to intervene and stop the projects planned in the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem National Park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/discuss-budget-in-nov-dec-says-khaunte/articleshow/77187682.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Vadodara||18 inmates of Vadodara Central Jail test positive for Covid-19||Vadodara: Eighteen inmates of Vadodara Central Jail tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday night.Out of the samples of 25 inmates which were randomly taken last week, 18 prisoners turned out to be positive. However, all 18 prisoners are asymptomatic and have been admitted at a special Covid-19 ward at the SSG Hospital. “We had randomly taken samples of inmates who were above 60 years. We have identified the jail staff who had come in contact with these inmates,” said jail superintendent, Baldevsinh Vaghela. Five jail staffers submitted their samples on Sunday and their reports are awaited.Earlier, too, two inmates had tested positive. One of the inmates, who was admitted to a hospital in Ahmedabad for surgery, had tested positive and another inmate who was in contact with him had contracted the virus. Jail officials said that they are taking precautions and following protocols to ensure that the virus does not spread among the inmates and jail staff. “Any new prisoner who comes to jail is kept in isolation in a separate barrack for two weeks. They are shifted to regular barracks only after their isolation period ends,” Vaghela said.The central jail has over 1,300 inmates including under-trials and those detained under the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities (PASA) Act.The fresh cases within VMC limits have been reported from Manjalpur, Waghodiya Road, Gorwa, Ajwa Road, Pathargate, Karelibaug, Warasiya, Akota, Danteshwar, Chhani, Sama, Fatehgunj, Gotri Road, Tarsali, Refinery Road, Tandalja, Sangam crossroads, Vasna Road, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/18-inmates-of-vadodara-central-jail-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/77186586.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Flyers flock to first direct Delhi flights in three weeks||KOLKATA: Flight operations resumed on Sunday after a day’s suspension with airlines adjusting to start-stop operations following the twice-a-week lockdown in Bengal. The passenger count was around 10% higher than in recent days with several of those, whose flights had been suddenly cancelled at a few hours’ notice on Friday, undertaking their journey on Sunday. Though 60 flights departed on Sunday, the spotlight was on two flights to Delhi, one operated by Vistara and the other by GoAir. For years, Kolkata has had the best connectivity with Delhi but the link was severed on July 6 when the state government had banned flights from six cities, including the national capital, citing high Covid cases there. Though there is no embargo on flights from Kolkata to these cities, no airline has operated one way flights, pointing out logistical challenges. Despite the two flights being introduced late in the week, both operated with good loads. “If more flights operate on the Kolkata-Delhi and Kolkata-Mumbai sectors, they will get decent loads as there is good demand on both sectors for not just passengers intending to travel to these cities but even those booked on Vande Bharat flights to the US, the UK or the Gulf. Till now, passengers, who must travel to these cities, have been flying via another city,” said a travel agent. Airlines industry sources said the good response to these flights may prompt other carriers to rejig the network to put in one-way flights from Kolkata to Delhi and Mumbai. Even on other fights that operated on Sunday, the load was higher than usual. On Friday, the average arrival figure on fights was around 90 while the average departure load was 60. Airlines said both the arrival and departure count had increased on Sunday. Though the next lockdown is on Wednesday, passengers and airlines expect the state government to announce the date of the second lockdown next week on Monday. Meanwhile, the 30 Silchar-bound passengers, who had got stuck in the city after arriving from Bengaluru on Friday, departed in a SpiceJet flight on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/flyers-flock-to-first-direct-delhi-flights-in-3-weeks/articleshow/77188087.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Lucknow||‘We were short of food, water but high on josh’||Lucknow: When it comes to taking on aggressors intruding into the Indian territory, harsh weather and shortage of food and water are no deterrents for bravehearts fighting for the country. Recalling how Indian soldiers routed Pakistani infiltrators during Kargil War, Brigadier (retired) Amul Asthana who led the 1st battalion of the 11 Gorkha Rifles which launched the final attack for the capture of Tekri Post on the Line of Control on July 26, 1999, said: “We were short of food and the water we had was contaminated with gunpowder. Our soldiers drank melted snow and fell ill but still they were high on ‘Josh’ (zeal) to make ‘Operation Vijay’ a success.” Brig Asthana shared his experience of the Kargil War on Sunday during an online session organized by the Avadh Girls’ Degree College on the occasion 21st Kargil Vijay Diwas. “On May 6, we were informed that 4-5 infiltrators have entered the Batalik mountain – a focal point in Kargil War because of its strategic location between Kargil and Leh. We walked nonstop for 9 hours and covered 7000ft to hunt down enemies. However, we found that they were not just 4-5 but 400-500 men firing on us from all the directions,” said Brig Asthana. “The very moment we realized that it was not a small operation but a prolonged war. This was the time when young officers like Lieutenant Samiran Roy, Captain Manoj Pandey and Lt RS Rawat fought bravely for the country,” he said. The battalion, led by Colonel Lalit Rai, fought valiantly and Captain Manoj Pandey sacrificed his life after destroying several enemy bunkers. “‘Na chhodna’ (Don’t spare them) were the last words of Captain Pandey. We captured Khalubar but didn’t have an Indian flag to hoist. I kept a diary in my pocket with the Indian flag that was hoisted after capturing the post,” he said. “The war was on and we had little water and that too was contaminated with gunpowder. Soldiers drank melted ice and fell ill but fought and killed enemies. We surprised the enemy at point 5287 (17,600 feet) and the Gorkha soldiers killed them with ‘kukri’ (machete). A soldier immediately told me on radio that he has found a diary of a Pakistani army officer written in English and is dated. I asked him to open the page marked May 27. The message, ‘We have shot down an Indian MiG’, was written on it. I got to know it was a double victory for us as the infiltrators whom we killed had martyred our Squadron Leader Ajay Ahuja by shooting down his MiG,” he recalled. He also showed a rare picture of celebration of Gorkha Soldiers at Point 5287 in which Indian soldiers were seen posing with stinger missiles they recovered from that place. Talking to TOI, Brig Asthana said not just soldiers but even a retired armymen and soldier’s wife also helped them. “I somehow sent a message to my wife in Delhi that we need a magneto (military) telephone. Reacting swiftly, she went to Chandni Chowk and sent 14 phones to us. Wives of many soldiers also made their contributions during the Kargil War from wherever they were.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/we-were-short-of-food-water-but-high-on-josh/articleshow/77188085.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Jodhpur||Monsoon takes a toll on antelopes||JODHPUR: Monsoon has started taking its toll on wildlife, especially the antelopes in the desert region. The marshy land in the aftermath of rain in the habitat of chinkaras and black bucks has turned life threatening for them as they are increasingly falling prey to stray dogs. Over 100 chinkaras and black bucks have been attacked by stray dogs in Jodhpur district and its vicinity in the last two days coinciding with the advent of the monsoon showers in the region. According to sources, about two dozen of these have succumbed to dog bites in the last three days, while the rest are under treatment at different rescue centres. TOI tried to talk to forest officials, but DCF (Wildlife) Mahesh Choudhary was out of town and in-charge of the rescue centre Ashokaram Panwar had his phone switched off, even in such a critical situation, when the villagers have been rushing with injured animals.Wildlife lovers and environmentalists have been demanding control on stray dogs and effective rescue activities for the antelopes since long, but no step has been taken to ensure safety of these antelopes, especially during monsoon. President of Bishnoi Tiger Force Rampal Bhawad said the soil turns soft during monsoon and antelopes could not hop and run as swiftly as they do otherwise. “Hence they fall easy prey to the stray dogs. Some are badly injured and some are lucky to be rescued by villagers,” he said. Bishnoi Tiger Force had demanded that the government provide them land in the villages and help them catch stray dogs to be kept there for sterilisation, but this demand stands unheeded. Besides, barbed fence wires around agriculture farms are also a major threat for these scampering antelopes in the rural areas. “While running across the farms in the villages, especially in order to protect themselves from the chasing dogs, they get hit by the barbed wire fences and die of injuries,” said senior veterinarian Shravan Singh Rathore. The situation has further worsened by the lack of staff and resources to rescue these endangered antelopes. None of the three veterinary rescue centres in Jodhpur, Phalodi and Khejarli has permanent veterinarian. “Given the limited resources available with the department, the ratio of saving the antelopes was quite low,” admitted a forest official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/monsoon-takes-a-toll-on-antelopes/articleshow/77188092.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Rannotsav to be held from mid-November||AHMEDABAD: Craving for a getaway in 2020? Well, the state government will soon add some silver lining to the hopes of travellers! Gujarat’s signature tourism festival, Rannotsav, which is held every year from November to February, will be held this year too. At a time when tourism industry has seen a drastic decline in bookings, the state government is all geared up to host the festival, revealed sources, from mid-November onwards till February-end. “The government will soon make an official announcement about the festival which is expected to begin in mid-November and bookings will shortly open. The tent city is being readied to welcome tourists under a new normal and we are taking all precautions to ensure social distancing and utmost hygiene is maintained. We are also reorganizing the dining space, where more people congregate and spacing it out and have deployed additional buses which will only ferry tourists at half the capacity or less,” said Nikhil Aggarwal, partner of the event management company which organizes Rannotsav. The annual festival attracted at least 50,000 tourists last season, including people from Gujarat and other parts of India, NRIs who visit their home state during the winter months and even a few foreign nationals. The organizers have slashed package prices to woo tourists. “We have reduced the package price across categories by 20% to encourage more tourists to visit the festival. We have not reduced itinerary but have worked on ensuring social distancing and safety of tourists in the wake of the pandemic,” said Aggarwal. Industry sources, however, said the footfall may take a hit by at least 30% in the wake of the pandemic and even a likely reduction in number of international travellers. Tour operators however, feel that the decision to hold the festival will help revive tourism in the state. “People from Gujarat have not stepped out to travel anywhere since summer and this has happened for the first time. Travellers will think twice before making holiday plans to other states because of quarantine rules. Thus, Rannotsav is a fantastic opportunity for tourists to drive down and take a getaway within the state itself,” said Manish Sharma, secretary, Travel Agents’ Federation of India (TAFI) – Gujarat chapter. “While the government and its executing agencies will ensure all precautions, it is still four months to the festival and if the cases go down by then, there is a lot of scope for improving tourism in the state,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rannotsav-to-be-held-from-mid-november/articleshow/77187723.cms||Niyati Parikh
July 27, 2020||Nashik||Nashik municipal commissioner to lodge FIR against private hospitals for inflated bills||NASHIK: Nashik municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game on Sunday appointed independent auditors at 32 private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients in the city to put a stop to overcharging. Game also directed the auditors to lodge FIR against private hospitals if they are found inflating bills. The auditors have been tasked with sitting at the the said hospitals throughout the day or during official hours and check the bills before handing them over to Covid-19 patients at the time of discharge. The auditor concerned will verify the bill and check if the patient is charged nominally. If not, he will make the necessary changes in the bill. If the private hospital concerned refuses to reduce the inflated bill, the auditor concerned will lodge an FIR. The municipal commissioner has issued a circular in this connection. The circular also includes the list of auditors.“As per the new circular by the municipal commissioner, it will be mandatory for private hospitals to inspect the bills through the auditor appointed at the hospital. The bills are to be given to the patients concerned only after the auditor approves them,” said NMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-lodge-fir-against-pvt-hosps-for-inflated-bills/articleshow/77186105.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 27, 2020||Pune||Students seek extension of deadline to submit docus||Pune: The lockdown situation has left parents and students clueless about collecting the required certificates for admission to first year junior colleges (FYJC, Std XI) even as the process started on Sunday. Teachers’ associations along with parents and students have demanded an extension of the deadline for submission of documents, such as non-creamy layer certificate, caste certificate and income certificate. Manisha Kale, parent of a city-based student applying for admission to FYJC, said, “We have submitted an application for the caste certificate but we have not received it yet. We have informed the school about the situation but the authorities did not have any idea about how to go about the process without a copy of the certificate.”The Maharashtra Teachers Sena has also written to state education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Friday. The association has demanded an extension in the deadline for the submission. Sunil Jagtap, coordinator of the association, said, “The FYJC forms have options for these categories, where students have to make it clear if they are eligible for the benefits provided under any of these categories. After we submitted the letter to the deputy director of education in Pune as well as the state education minister, we were told that a decision would be taken on the same soon.”The form filling exercise for FYJC began on Sunday. However, as of now, students will only be able to register in order to get the login id and password. The submission of the students’ personal details will begin from August 1 as the education department has been considering the changes that are to be incorporated in the forms with respect to submission of additional documents.Deputy director of education for Pune division Meena Shendkar pointed out that the department has received a number of letters from students, parents and associations. These were studied and they were sent to the state education department, Shendkar stated. “The current system had the option of uploading documents to support the student’s selection of non-creamy layer category, caste validity, or other such certificates. If these documents were not uploaded, then the student would be considered in the general category. To avoid this as well as to make changes in the system, we have extended the actual form-filling process until August 1. For now, students can register and create their login id and passwords,” said Shendkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/students-seek-extension-of-deadline-to-submit-docus/articleshow/77187693.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Udaipur||Udaipur: Aadhaar-like UID for bovines now||UDAIPUR: The animal husbandry department has embarked on an ambitious project of issuing 12-digit barcoded ear tags to identify, register and track cattle population. Each animal will be provided a thermoplastic polyurethane ear tag bearing 12-digit UID. Like Aadhaar cards for humans, the Pashu Aadhaar scheme has been launched with an aim of enhancing traceability of livestock and their products, such as milk or meat. It is being touted as the world’s largest existing database of animals. “The scheme would help farmers and animal husbandry officials devise better strategies to manage livestock in the country. Pashu Aadhaar assigns a unique identification number to each animal, alongside a host of other related data that will help in managing the country’s vast livestock resources,” said Bhupendra Bharadwaj, deputy director, animal husbandry department. The project is being carried out under the Information Network for Animal Productivity and Health (INAPH) which has been developed by the National Dairy Development Board (NDDB). “We have received ear tags and some 400 employees of the department are working on the onerous task to cover the huge bovine population in Udaipur. The tags would contain data on the bovines’ species, breed, pedigree, and information related to calving, artificial insemination, milk production, feeding, nutrition history and vaccination,” Bharadwaj said. All indigenous, nondescript, crossbred as well as exotic milch animals above the age of four months are being covered for the database. “The database would help veterinarians to deliver better health services to the cattle owners. The vaccinations, deworming and disease testing services are provided to the animals at regular intervals. These intervals are configured in the system based on parameters like disease, age, etc., which alerts the veterinarians to take appropriate action at appropriate time. The complete case history of the treatment services provided on an animal would also be maintained and available to the veterinarians on finger tips for better diagnosis and treatment of the animal. First information report on outbreak and its follow-up can also be recorded along with provision to send alerts to the affected areas,” Dr Shakti Singh, the in-charge of the project, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/aadhaar-like-uid-for-bovines-now/articleshow/77188098.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Jaipur||Redesigning work of six junctions in Jaipur to be completed by October||JAIPUR: The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) is waiting for another incident to happen as the proposed work to improve the six junctions on major roads in the city is pending. After witnessing fatal accidents on JDA Circle a year ago, the civic body proposed to improve traffic on seven junctions, including OTS Circle, Jawahar Circle, Rambagh Junction, Mansarovar Metro Junction, B2 Bypass, Collectorate Circle and JDA Circle. However, redesigning work of only JDA Circle has been completed. A JDA official said, “Due to Covid, the work could not be taken up. At present, the work on OTS Circle is under progress, which is almost completed. The redesigning work for all the circles will be finished by October 2020.” Based on the suggestions received from the steering committee, the JDA had initiated work at major intersections and junctions of the city for swift traffic flow and make them accident-free. An official said, “The design of island, median, zebra crossing and poles at the circle intersection will be rectified to prevent accidents. After a survey, the committee constituted to improve traffic conditions suggested to alter the designs.” The official added that to provide clear visibility from Ambedkar Circle and Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) office, the civic body at Rambagh had earlier reduced the size of the railing and chopped the plants and trees. “It was also suggested to reduce the width of the slip lane to 5-7 metres connecting Ambedkar Circle Road and JMC office road,” said a JDA engineer. Sources said the committee had recommended constructing flyovers at Rambagh. “A proposal to construct a flyover at Rambagh is long pending. However, it was shelved due to lack of funds,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/redesigning-work-of-junctions-to-be-completed-by-october/articleshow/77188096.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Lucknow||UP govt to equip grassroots Covid warriors with infra||LUCKNOW: To flatten the spiraling Covid graph in the state, the UP government has decided to initiate swift procurement of pulse oximeters and infra-red thermometers to equip corona warriors at the grassroots, particularly those deployed by municipal corporations, nagar palika parishads, nagar panchayats. The move is seen as the government’s bid to fast-track surveillance and ascertain the spread of pandemic, which has gripped more than 63,000 people and claimed 1,400 lives. In a communique to municipal commissioners and heads of nagar palika parishads and nagar panchayats on July 24, special secretary, urban development, Sanjay Singh, said, procurement of equipment should be done quickly to equip teams constituted by the state government to carry out door-to-door surveillance. Singh said, the survey teams will zero in on districts with high Covid count to fast-track testing. On July 20, the local bodies’ directorate pressed for utilizing funds of urban local bodies’ or state finance commission to purchase two Corona detection equipment. Officials said, these will be provided to teams after sanitization. The UP government’s bid to step up surveillance comes close on heels of chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s directive to ramp up testing to 1 lakh per day. Also, chief secretary R K Tiwari directed all district magistrates on July 20 to accelerate identification of patients and screen samples through antigen kits. The chief secretary emphasized on arrangement of pulse oximeters, infra-red thermometers and sanitizers from local bodies’ funds. The government’s decision to expedite surveillance also comes a week after the state health department pitched for setting up of integrated command and control centres in every district to keep a tab on Corona cases. In the letter, Singh said, procurement of equipment would be done as per rules laid by the government in the wake of coronavirus pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-to-equip-grassroots-covid-warriors-with-infra/articleshow/77188104.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Hyderabad||20-yr-old boy goes missing, case filed||Hyderabad: A 20-year-old student went out to meet his friends on July 22 night but did not return home. The family has filed a missing persons’ complaint after searching for him for days. The student was identified as Sapavath Sunil Kumar, a resident of Gurramguda in Balapur. The family searched all his friend’s house while his phone has remained switched off. The family approached Meerpet police on Saturday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/20-yr-old-boy-goes-missing-case-filed/articleshow/77187711.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Jaipur||Coronavirus grips Kota jail as 41 inmates test positive||KOTA: The detection of 24 fresh corona positive cases in mahila jail of Kota Central Jail on Sunday morning has sent the jail staff as well as the local administration into a tizzy taking the total number of Covid-19 infected inmates to 41. As many as 260 male inmates have been lodged in the mahila jail. Now, containing the spread in the main jail accommodating 1,100 inmates poses a challenge to the authorities. Female inmates had been shifted to other jails, deputy superintendent of jail Shravan Lal Jat said. The main jail where 1,100 inmates are lodged is currently protected from the infection, but keeping all the inmates safe is a challenge. The jail is congested and overcrowded and it is hardly possible to protect the inmates from infection, he said. The first inmate, who was lodged in jail under judicial custody on July 14 from Vigyan Nagar police station, tested positive on July 18, he further said, adding 50% of the inmates in Kota Central Jail carry symptoms pertaining to Covid-19 and the samples of such inmates are being collected. Besides, freshly arriving inmates are being shifted to jail in Sangod town of the district. Meanwhile, in Kota and Bundi districts reported 123 and 34 cases, respectively, on Saturday taking the total to 1,305 in Kota and 83 in Bundi. Of the 34 cases in Bundi, 17 were from Bundi district transport office which was shut on Saturday following the detection of an infected employee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/corona-grips-kota-jail-as-41-inmates-test-positive/articleshow/77188094.cms||---
July 27, 2020||India||‘Suspend patents on Covid-19 drugs in India to ensure accessibility & affordability’||Mumbai: India should consider temporarily restricting and suspending intellectual property, including patents and designs, on all Covid-19 medical products like diagnostics, medicines and vaccines, according to public health experts. This, they say, could be one of the ways to ensure accessibility and affordability of key life-saving drugs for Covid-19 to not only patients in India but to millions across the world. Patent and public health experts told TOI that India is a special case because of its huge population and it’s responsibility as the ‘pharmacy of the developing world’. It is important that it be able to meet the needs of its own population to access safe and effective Covid-19 medicines and vaccines. But it also needs legal freedom to produce massive surpluses that can be exported to other countries, especially lower and middle-income countries at risk of being left behind because of the surge of ‘vaccine and therapeutic nationalism’ in US and Europe, they added. This could well be one of the ways of ensuring accessibility and affordability of drugs/vaccines, and to prevent instances of shortages of potential medicines going forward. A case in point is the shortage and consequent price gouging being witnessed across cities in the case of Gilead’s Remdesivir and Roche’s Tocilizumab, putting many patients through hardship. Similar measures are also being taken up by countries in the European Union, South America and South Africa. Leena Menghaney from Medecins Sans Frontieres said: “To address intellectual property (IP) barriers, Indian government should consider restricting and automatically licensing all IP including patents and designs on all Covid-19 medical tools including diagnostics, devices, medicines and vaccine as the pandemic is a public health emergency and time cannot be wasted on lengthy negotiations and legal challenges. Chile has already introduced legislation, and Germany introduced the Epidemic Protection Act, which provides for measures to restrict German patents covering pharmaceuticals or medical devices. This would immediately allow open competition and increase access to medical tools needed to detect, treat and prevent the dreaded disease” India’s patent and drug regulatory laws have helped protect and market price-lowering generic competition, so much so that it’s called the “pharmacy of the developing world”. It supplies over one-third of life-saving drugs globally. A majority of medicines for dreaded diseases like tuberculosis, HIV and malaria are affordable generics made here. “The most pragmatic solution for India would be to adopt emergency rules and streamlined procedures to allow automatic, mandatory, or presumptive compulsory licenses that could override granted and pending patents on any and all Covid-19 related medical products. At the same time governments could allow for exceptions to data protection and trade secret rights where they present barriers to generic and biosimilar companies being able to make therapeutic equivalent products. Countries like India with robust manufacturing capacity should also grant automatic licenses allowing for export of unlimited quantities of medical products to countries that lack meaningful domestic capacity. To do so, they should rely on TRIPS Article 30. Even if countries do adopt such powerful compulsory licensing regimes, they have to overcome their own self-imposed reluctance — or informal moratoriums as in India — to issue compulsory licenses”, Professor Brook K Baker of Northeastern U School of Law and senior policy analyst, Health GAP (Global Access Project), said. Agreeing with the move to side-step patents, Prathibha Sivasubramanian, legal researcher Third World Network said “For repurposed drugs (like remdesivir), price control should be brought in and generic production allowed”. Earlier, civil society and NGOs have also highlighted how high prices and monopolies of patented medicines have undermined access to treatment of HIV, tuberculosis and hepatitis C in the developing world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/suspend-patents-on-covid-19-drugs-in-india-to-ensure-accessibility-affordability/articleshow/77188105.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
July 27, 2020||Pune||Four rounds of intake to state ITIs through app||Pune: Admissions to industrial training institutes (ITI) in the state will take place through a cellphone application this year. The state directorate of technical education has instructed all ITIs in the state to develop the admission app so that students can apply to colleges and institutes from home. The ITIs will begin admissions after the secondary school certificate (SSC, std X) results are announced.The state Directorate of Vocational Education and Training (DVET) has issued a notification that all admissions to ITIs will take place this year through the app called ‘MahaITI’.A panel was set up under the chairmanship of joint director of DVET, Anil Jadhav, to relook at admissions considering the Covid-19 situation. Jadhav recommended that four admission rounds for 2020-21 be conducted based on a merit list at the state and district-level.Jadhav said, “The students will be given admissions based on marks, group and preference list. A district level committee will be constituted to monitor the admissions. After the four merit lists are announced, a counselling round will also be held.”The private ITI institutes will have to announce the admissions conducted under the management and minority quota on their website. These seats will also be filled online, Jadhav said. The state admissions committee will monitor the process in the entire Maharashtra.The students will have to download the application on their phones. The forms will be available on the app. Students will have to fill up their seat number and all the details will automatically load on the app. Preference of colleges and branches will have to be selected by the students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-rounds-of-intake-to-state-itis-through-app/articleshow/77187716.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Absence of Congress MLAs taking toll on Jan Sunwais||JAIPUR: The absence of Congress ministers and MLAs of both camps — CM Ashok Gehlot and Sachin Pilot — from their offices and field for the past 13 days has left residents in the lurch. Every day, people heading to their residences with various kinds of pleas are being received by either their family members or office bearers. The most visited residences are of education, health, agriculture and PWD ministers. On any given day, these ministers attract 200-500 people from across the state. Jan Sunwais have taken a backseat after the political crisis started. “I visited the residence of education minister Govind Singhji to highlight the condition of at least 10 senior secondary schools in Nagaur which can collapse in the rainy season but learnt that he is operating from a hotel and nobody has the access. Left with no choice, I left the application at his residence on July 21 hoping that he will issue some directions,” said Subhash Yadav, a social activist based in Nagaur. Since July 13, 101 MLAs including two BTP legislators are holed up in a five-star hotel in Jaipur while 19 Congress MLAs along with three independents belonging to the Sachin Pilot camp are at Manesar in Haryana. They are facing critism since they are not available in the field leaving people in distress. The role of MLAs has become very important in the pandemic when almost all departments are working at a slow pace. Almost every day residents flock to their residences with problems related to patwaris, tehsildars and police to name a few. The absence is only adding to their anger. Salama Begum (66) of Ramganj, who is suffering from cancer and is desperately looking for financial assistance under the chief minister relief fund (medical), is running from the pillar to the post to get a letter signed by her MLA Rafiq Khan. “The surgery of my mother is pending for the last six months due to the pandemic. But now when the doctor said they are ready for the operation, I am not getting Khan’s signature,” said Begum. First-time MLA Mukesh Bhakar from Ladnun in Nagaur, who had assured of responding to his voters 24/7 in election rallies, hardly responds to anyone. He is in the Pilot group and has been missing from office for the past 18 days. “Locusts have been repeatedly attacking out area giving us sleepless nights. The agriculture department is yet to do an assessment of the damage caused by the pests in the area. We (farmers) have been calling him but no response,” said Ram Singh, a farmer based in Ladnun. Political analyst Avadesh Akodia said an MLA acts as a link between the government and the public. “The presence of MLAs is very vital for the smooth functioning of the local administration. He/she (MLA) can provide an instant solution to most of the genuine problems people are facing,” said Akodia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/missing-cong-mlas-is-costing-dearly-to-people/articleshow/77188100.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Jaipur||Containment measures to be tightened in Alwar district||JAIPUR: Intense containment measures will be implemented in Alwar, which is one of the worst-hit districts in terms of spiralling Covid cases. Out of the total cases, 60% are active, which is a cause of concern for health authorities. In all, 1,724 persons are yet to be cured of the virus. The health department is facing a challenge where to keep the asymptomatic patients. Now, it has been decided to keep them in multi-storey buildings where flats are lying vacant. Alwar’s industrial town Bhiwadi, which is quite close to Delhi, is witnessing a spike in cases. Majority of the affected population are labourers, who are living in slums. A health department official said that since slum areas are congested and possibility of the spread of the virus is quite high there, they have decided to shift Covid patients to vacant flats in multistorey buildings where positive cases will get isolated. With sudden spike in cases, health department officials have allowed majority of asymptomatic patients for home isolation as they do not require much treatment but only observation and monitoring. Alwar is one of the three districts with the highest number of active cases. As many as 463 people have been found infected with the virus in the past 36 hours (till Sunday morning). The health authorities are conducting intense contact tracing to break the chain of infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/containment-measures-to-be-tightened-in-alwar-dist/articleshow/77188107.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Nashik||Covid grips ‘grape’ taluka of Nashik dist||Nashik: The grape-growing taluka of Niphad in Nashik district has found itself in the grip of Covid-19, affecting the markets and farmers. So far, 463 cases of Covid-19 have been reported across the taluka of which 165 are active cases — highest number of active patients in the rural areas. “The taluka has five market centres that send fruits, vegetables to cities line Mumbai. There is huge supply of agriculture produce from here owing to which the farmers and traders are bound to travel. This is the major reason behind spread of the contagion,” sub-divisional officer Archana Pathare said. Of the total patients in Niphad taluka, 65% of them are limited to five villages: Pimpalgaon, Ozar, Niphad, Vinchur and Lasalgaon villages. “We are doing our best to contain the spread. The villagers are not ready for the lockdown saying that it was meant for urban areas only,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-grips-grape-taluka-of-nashik-dist/articleshow/77186125.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 27, 2020||Nashik||600 teachers to trace comorbid patients||Nashik: The civic administration has deployed 600 teachers to conduct door-to-door survey to identify co-morbid patients across the city. According to a civic official, this survey will help the NMC check on the health of these patients and conduct tests on suspected cases. “The risk of getting infected is higher among co-morbid patients and senior citizens. The NMC is also taking all the measures to provide treatment to co-morbid patients and senior citizens in Covid hospitals,” the official said. “We have already started a mission to find out more suspected cases in slums and containment areas to break the chain of coronavirus. We have also increased the testing at large for early detection of the patients and start immediate treatment,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/600-teachers-to-trace-comorbid-patients/articleshow/77186112.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 27, 2020||Jaipur||Second notices sent to suspended MLAs||Jaipur:The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) has issued second notices to suspended MLAs Bhanwarlal Sharma and Vishvendra Singh after they failed to respond to the previous ones. The notices were sent to the duo to record their statements in connection with the audio clips in which they were allegedly heard talking about attempts to topple the government. “The MLAs who were sent notices earlier last week are yet to respond. We have again sent the notices via email and they have been asked to respond within a week,” said a senior official of ACB. ACB had sent notices to Sharma and Singh following the FIR lodged by Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi claiming that the accused were in cahoots with others to topple the state government. Joshi had provided two audio recordings to the agency in which the politicians were apparently heard talking about horse-trading of MLAs. Previously the notices given to the MLAs asked them to respond in three days time, the deadline for which expired on Thursday. In the complaint filed on July 11, Joshi had mentioned the names of three individuals who were heard in the audio clips — MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, Sanjay Jain and Gajendra Singh —, though it does not specify if it was the voice of the Union minister. Out of the two clips, no names were taken in one of them though sources claimed that the conversation was between the former tourism minister and Gajendra Singh. On Saturday, the ACB registered an FIR under the Prevention of Corruption Act. On June 10, the ACB had also received a complaint from Joshi in connection with perceived horse-trading of MLAs following which they started a confidential investigation into the matter. The Special Operations Group (SOG) is also conducting a separate investigation in the same matter under IPC sections for sedition and criminal conspiracy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/second-notices-sent-to-suspended-mlas/articleshow/77188110.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Pune||BNCA, pioneer of hi-tech architectural education||The city-based Dr Bhanuben Nanavati College of Architecture For Women (BNCA), established in 1994 as part of the Maharshi Karve Stree Shikshan Samstha (MKSSS), is a pioneer in the use of advanced technology in architectural education. The college is affiliated to the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and is known to equip its students with advanced technological, research and professional expertise in architectural education, along with industrial collaborations. The college has completed 25 years. The college was granted only 30 intakes during the initial years, but now the total strength has risen to 1,100 — making it one of the biggest in India in terms of admitting students at the undergraduate, postgraduate and doctoral levels. MKSSS was founded by the visionary Bharat Ratna Maharshi Dhondo Keshav Karve and has entered 125th year. Courses offered The college offers a five-year Bachelor’s and two-year Master’s degree courses in Environment, Digital and Landscape Architecture. It also has a doctoral programme with 32 PhD scholars researching BNCA’s PhD centre of SPPU. Most popular course The college founded a four-year digital course in Advance Digital Interior Design (ADD) in 1997. Admissions to course is after completion of Class 12. The college also offers a five-year Bachelor’s in Architecture (B Arch) with four divisions of 40 students each. Admission to the course is after Class 12 for students from Science stream. The two-year MArch. (Landscape) the programme was founded in 2006 with 20 students’ intake for the first time in Maharashtra. M. Arch (Environment) course was founded in 2006, a first in India. MArch (Digital Architecture) with Fabricatio Lab was founded in 201, first in Asian sub-continent. PhD in Architecture was founded in 2014, for Maharashtra and one of the biggest in India with 32 researchers. What sets BNCA apart? The college was awarded the ‘Membership of Academic Union’, Oxford, the UK in 2019. It also bagged the ‘Asia’s Best College’ award in 2014-15 by the World Consulting and Research Corporation. The college has a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with 45 international universities and has students’ exchange programmes. The college’s state-of-the-art infrastructure includes India’s first Fab-Lab in Digital Architecture comprising of 3D Printing, Laser Cutting Machines, CNC Machine and six-axis robotic arm fully automatic furniture making ‘Caple’ Lab, Library with Web-Opaque Application System. The college has its web-based ERP with its android application, very well-established paperless Learning Management System (LMS). The college has been a pioneer in Architectural Study Tours. BNCA is the host to India’s first UN Academic Impact (UNAI) Hub in Architecture with 11 other international projects. “We are motivated to be a hub of architectural education, experimentation and research. With the support of our faculty and students, BNCA will deliver education that will lay foundations to innovations in architecture. We believe in holistic education, where students not only become good professionals but also responsible citizens,” said Anurag Kashyap, principal. Website: www.bnca.ac.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bnca-pioneer-of-hi-tech-architectural-education/articleshow/77187719.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Pune||ATM robbery bid foiled as thief fails to open cash box||Pune: The Khadak police have launched a search for an unidentified man who attempted to rob cash from an ATM kiosk at the busy Rashtrabhushan Chowk on the night intervening Friday and Saturday but failed.The suspect did not manage to steal any cash from the machine. He damaged the CCTV cameras placed in the kiosk and the machine at around 8pm on Friday and came back later in the night to execute the robbery, a police officer said.Inspector Uttam Chakre of the Khadak police said, “His face was masked.”He came back and damaged the ATM machine in order to steal the cash but only managed to damage the machine’s hull and failed to reach the cash box, said Chakre.The ATM is owned and managed by a public sector bank. Bank officer Suyog Parmale (37) of Dhankawadi on Saturday lodged a complaint with the Khadak police. Police said the man was armed with a screwdriver. Police said there was about Rs2 lakh cash in the cash box. Chakre said the ATM kiosk was unguarded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/atm-robbery-bid-foiled-as-thief-fails-to-open-cash-box/articleshow/77187731.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Burglar held, lodged in Cherlapally jail||Hyderabad: Rachakonda police on Sunday detained a 37-year-old notorious house burglar under the PD Act. The accused, Bramhadevara Rajasri Ganesh, from Chittoor district of Andhra Pradesh, was found involved in as many as ten burglary cases last year under the limits of Rachakonda. He was lodged in Central Prison, Cherlapally on Sunday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/burglar-held-lodged-in-cherlapally-jail/articleshow/77187738.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Lucknow||20% new cases from Lucknow, Kanpur||LUCKNOW: A leap of 3,260 fresh coronavirus cases in the past 24 hours took UP tally to 66,988 on Sunday. The state also recorded recovery of 1,741 persons taking the total number of persons discharged to 41,641. “With this, the number of active infections in UP reached 23,921,” infrastructure and industrial development commissioner, Alok Tandon, told reporters. A look at the new cases revealed that Lucknow and Kanpur accounted for 20% of the cases. While Lucknow recorded 449 new cases, Kanpur followed next with 202 cases. The next big chunk of 26.2% cases came from nine big cities, including Varanasi (145), Gautam Budh Nagar (110), Gorakhpur (107), Moradabad (103), Prayagraj (98), Jhansi (84) and Meerut (31). The state also recorded 39 deaths taking the total number of Covid casualties to 1,426. According to officials, eight deaths were recorded from Kanpur and six from Ballia. The total number of deaths in Kanpur has now reached 172. Ayodhya, Gorakhpur and Bareilly reported three deaths each while two deaths each were reported in Varanasi, Sultanpur and Jhansi. Districts of Baghpat, Basti, Bulandshahr, Chandauli, Deoria, Jalaun, Jaunpur, Lucknow, Meerut and Prayagraj recorded one death each. Tandon said UP has the maximum number of Aarogya Setu users in the country. “Of the 14.49 crore Aarogya Setu App users in the country, 2.47 crore are from UP alone,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/20-new-cases-from-lucknow-kanpur/articleshow/77188112.cms||Shailvee Sharda
July 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Heavy metal contamination found in Gulf of Kutch||Ahmedabad: Environmental scientists have warned of heavy metal contamination in the Gulf of Kutch, after they found accumulation of toxic metals like chromium, copper, nickel, lead and traces of mercury, in a first comprehensive geochemical study of the Gulf’s sediments to assess the heavy metal concentrations . The scientists were worried of copper contamination, sediment quality and their ecological risk in the coastal sediments. Samples were taken from 10 stations spread across a 150km stretch. According to a study published in the journal of Environmental Earth Sciences in April this year, metal presence in the sediments was measured in micrograms per gram. Copper ranged between 17.83 micrograms to 61.41 micrograms, nickel ranged from 11.31 micrograms to 37.43 micrograms, chromium ranged from 32.26 to 67.44 micrograms, cadmium ranged between 0.01 and 0.3 micrograms while lead was found to be between 8 and 16.4 micrograms at these 10 sampling stations. The locations considered for the study were Okha, Gopi, Pindara, Dhani, Salaya, two places in Narara, Sikka, Rozi, and Jodiya. The study observed that the presence of heavy metals in tissues of aquatic organisms like fish, planktons, molluscs and algae inhabiting coastal areas has also been reported. Bio-accumulation of heavy metals in marine organisms contributes to genetic damage by inducing double-strand breaks in DNA and inhibits critical proteins in DNA repair pathways The study involved department of life sciences, Maharaja Krishnakumarsinhji Bhavnagar University, Bhavnagar, department of biosciences, school of sciences, Indrashil University, Rajpur and Gujarat Ecology Society, Vadodara. The study found maximum concentration of heavy metals at Pindara, followed by Jodiya and Rozi. Least concentration was detected at Sikka. The researchers Haresh Panseriya, Haren B Gosai, Amita Sankhwal, Bhumi Sachaniya and Deepa Gavali pointed out that the origin of these heavy metal contaminants were from the central part of gulf which includes about 37 large — and medium scale industries having plants such as cement, fertilizers, woollen cloth, petrochemicals, oil refineries, solvents, bauxite, soda-ash and caustic soda. A similar scenario was also observed at Okha in the western part of the gulf where metallurgical, agro-based industries, mineral-based and chemical industries were located. “Land mining activities near Pindara are a major influencing factor for sediment contamination,” the study claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/heavy-metal-contamination-found-in-gulf-of-kutch/articleshow/77187772.cms||Paul John
July 27, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM ignoring plight of citizens: Satish Poonia||JAIPUR: State BJP has blamed the rising Covid-19 cases to the ruling government’s ‘sponsored’ political crisis in the state. Speaking to the reporters on Sunday, state BJP president Satish Poonia has called CM Ashok Gehlot insensitive for ignoring the plight of its citizens while enjoying the hospitality with his contingent of MLAs at a five-star hotel. “The Covid-19 cases have crossed 35,000-mark and the death toll has crossed 600 in the state, but the government is busy in its drama over leadership crisis. The people of the state will never forgive them seeing their public representatives busy in fun and frolic activities like playing football, carrom, watching movies and antakshri while they were left to suffer,” said Poonia. He asked Gehlot for how many more days the government will be held hostage at a hotel? He asked the government to show what work they have done for the people since Lockdown 1.0. “Neither do they have any control over Covid-19 cases, nor on the rising cases of crimes. The government is a complete failure,” Poonia added. Meanwhile, BJP MLA Madan Dilawar has accused the speaker’s office of acting on his plea challenging the merger of six BSP MLAs with the Congress party without taking him into the loop on Sunday. Dilawar had petitioned before speaker C P Joshi on the merger of BSP calling it unlawful and unconstitutional under the anti-defection law. The merger was notified by the speaker on September 18, 2019. “I challenged the merger in March 2020, but no action was taken by the speaker till I moved a petition for the same on July 14. I am aghast to learn from the news reports that my petition has been rejected by the speaker. This move is against the natural principle of justice in which both the parties are heard by the arbitrator,” Dilawar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-insensitive-ignoring-plight-of-citizens-poonia/articleshow/77188111.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Goa||Lifeguards rescue two couples at Keri||PAJANI: Two couples were rescued at Keri beach in Pernem at 3.30pm on Sunday. They were rescued by lifeguards after the tide began to swiftly rise at the beach. The two couples from Arpora walked over a rocky area towards the freshwater lake of Arambol during low tide when the rocks were exposed and climbed over to the other side. They sensed danger and called for help on their return when they found that the water level had risen. Lifeguard Girish Talkar alerted the Keri tower and rushed into the rough waters to rescue them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lifeguards-rescue-two-couples-at-keri/articleshow/77188133.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Dehradun||Former captain of Indian wheelchair cricket team forced to work as labourer in MGNREGA||Pithoragarh: With no source of income available for him during the lockdown, Rajendra Singh Dhami, 30, a physically-challenged cricketer, who is former captain of the Indian wheelchair cricket team and current captain of the Uttarakhand wheelchair cricket team, has been forced to work as a labourer to support his family. Dhami, who is 90 % disabled — he was stuck with paralysis when he was 3 years old — has won numerous awards for his performance on the cricketing field. He also has a MA in History as well as a B Ed degree. But despite his qualifications as well as performance as a sportsperson who has represented the country and continues to represent the state, he was left without a source of income during the Covid-19-induced lockdown. “Before the lockdown, I was giving coaching to wheelchair-bound children interested in playing cricket in Rudrapur. But because of the lockdown, this came to a halt and as a result, I came to my village Raikot in Pithoragarh, where my parents live,” Dhami told TOI. He added that a few months into the lockdown, it became very difficult to make ends meet. “My parents are old. I have a sister and younger brother as well. My brother used to work at a hotel in Gujarat but he, too, lost his job during the lockdown. Therefore, I decided to take up work in my village under the MGNREGA scheme,” said the cricketer who has toured several countries like Malaysia, Bangladesh and Nepal while leading the Uttarakhand wheelchair cricket team. On being queried whether he approached anybody for help, Dhami, who has led the Indian side in the India-Nepal-Bangladesh triangular wheelchair cricket series in 2017, said, “ Some people have come forward to help like actor Sonu Sood who sent me Rs 11,000. There are people in Rudrapur and Pithoragarh also who have helped me financially.” He added that “there is no problem in doing any kind of job to earn a living.” “I took up the MGNREGA job because it enables me to work near my home. These are difficult times but I know I will be able to overcome them,” he said with a cheerful smile.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/former-captain-of-indian-wheelchair-cricket-team-forced-to-work-as-labourer-in-mgnrega/articleshow/77186148.cms||Prem Punetha
July 27, 2020||Nashik||Testing lab at Nashik civil hosp to begin ops in a week||Nashik: The proposed Covid-19 testing laboratory at the Nashik civil hospital would be operational in a week’s time as the work of the lab is underway. Senior officials of the Nashik civil hospital said approximately 300 real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RTPCR) tests can be conducted every day at the laboratory. Currently, the throat swabs are sent for testing to MVP Medical College in the city, Dhule government medical college and Pune’s Armed Force Medical College. Nikhil Saindane, the additional civil surgeon of Nashik Civil Hospital, said the work to construct the lab is underway. We had identified a hall at the hospital for the Covid lab.” “The work of training the lab technicians is also underway and all the necessary machineries for testing have arrived. The lab would be operational in a week’s time,” added Saindane.Meanwhile, across the district testes are being conducted on Covid suspects with the help of rapid antigen test kits.Officials said the antigen tests are proving extremely handy to get quick results but they have 50% sensitivity, which means tests of Covid patients can also show negative results. So, for complete diagnosis of the infection, RTPCR tests is the only option.The district has been witnessing an increase in the number of cases following the process of unlocking and people venturing out of their houses.The need of sending throat swab samples to MVP College and to Pune will reduce considerably, once the RTPCR testing lab is operational.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/testing-lab-at-nashik-civil-hosp-to-begin-ops-in-a-week/articleshow/77186136.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 27, 2020||Nashik||20 mobile clinics detect 550 +ve cases in Nashik||Nashik: Over 7,000 people have so far undergone rapid antigen tests at the 20 mobile clinics — deployed under the ‘Mission Nashik Zero’ — in the last four days. Of them, 550 have tested positive. “We started the process with the help of a social organisation that has provided 20 mobile clinics. We are checking city residents and finding out suspected Covid-19 cases in the slums and containment areas,” a civic official said. “We have increased the antigen tests through mobile clinics for early detection. We are conducting around 1,800 antigen tests daily, said NMC officials. “It takes two-three days to get the swab sample reports using the RT-PCR test. But it takes only 20-25 minutes to know whether the suspect is Covid-19 positive through antigen tests. Hence, we are finding out maximum suspects and conducting their antigen tests for early detection,” he added. According to the official, this will help the civic body in breaking the chain of coronavirus. “In the first lot, we received 9,000 antigen kits from Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). We have already made a demand for 25,000 additional kits around a couple of weeks back and expect to receive them shortly,” he said. “Apart from this, we have also decided to place orders for another 25,000 kits considering the rise in the number of antigen tests,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/20-mobile-clinics-detect-550-ve-cases-in-nashik/articleshow/77186144.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 27, 2020||Jaipur||Instead of fighting Covid and China, Centre conspiring to topple Congress governments: Ajay Maken||JAIPUR: The Congress on Sunday said that the BJP conspiracy to topple Rajasthan’s elected government has made it clear that the disruptive forces want to make democracy a “Dilli durbar ki daasi” (maid of the Centre/Delhi Durbar) and a puppet of its hand. The party accused the BJP-led Centre government of conspiring to topple Congress governments in various states, instead of fighting the financial crisis, Covid-19 and China. Former union minister and Congress leader Ajay Maken said the country was witnessing unprecedented attacks on its constitutional bodies, as hurdles were being created in the functioning of Rajasthan's speaker while the state’s elected government was being denied the constitutional right to call an assembly session. The party’s ‘SpeakUpForDemocracy’ digital campaign launched on Saturday posed five questions to people on whether BJP’s attack on democracy and constitution was acceptable to them. The Congress asked if the judiciary could unconstitutionally interfere in the functioning of the legislature and would it not lead to a conflict between the two. “People should voice their concerns through our campaign #SpeakUpForDemocracy. This would be a true patriotic step,” Maken said, addressing a press conference. The Congress reiterated it would protest outside the Raj Bhavans in all states, except Rajasthan, on Monday to demand that democratically elected governments be allowed to function. On Monday, the Supreme Court was also scheduled to continue hearing on speaker CP Joshi’s special leave petition (SLP) challenging the Rajasthan high court’s interference in his functioning at the stage of issuing show-cause notices to legislators. Sources said the speaker might withdraw the SLP. “Our hopes of getting justice from the judiciary have dashed. People occupying constitutional posts like governor seem helpless in protecting the constitution. BJP is trying to crush the mandate of 8-crore people of Rajasthan, so we will be taking the issue straight to the people,” Maken said. He added, “The Congress workers and countrymen will stage Gandhian dharna in support of Rajasthan’s majority government and the state’s Congress MLAs who have been fighting to protect the constitution and democracy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/instead-of-fighting-covod-china-centre-conspiring-to-topple-cong-govts-maken/articleshow/77188118.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Lucknow||Online applications for scrutiny see fall||Lucknow: The Uttar Pradesh Secondary Education Board (UPSEB) which conducts class X and XII UP Board exam, has received over 32,000 applications for re-checking of answer copies. For the first time, the applications from candidates unsatisfied with their marks were invited online. The class X and XII UP Board results were declared on June 27. Though UPSEB did not share the data, sources said the number of application forms received for scrutiny is almost 1 lakh every year. This year, 32,084 applications have asked for re-checking of copies. While 24,291 are from class XII examinees, 7,813 are from class X candidates. Reasons for the drop include the increase in scrutiny fee by five times and making the application process online. The Covid-induced lockdown, said officials, also prevented candidates from visiting cyber cafes to fill in the form. Till last year, examinees seeking scrutiny had to apply offline. UPSEB allows scrutiny where the answer copies are re-checked to ensure that the candidate has been awarded marks for all attempted questions. Re-totalling is done to verify the grand total awarded to the candidate. Candidates have to pay Rs 500 per subject for scrutiny. Till 2018, the scrutiny fee was Rs 100 per subject. There is no process for revaluation of the answer copy. This year, Prayagraj region received the highest scrutiny applications (10,231) followed by Varanasi region with 7,624 applications. While Meerut region received 6,752 applications, Gorakhpur and Bareilly regions got 4,318 and 3,159 applications respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/online-applications-for-scrutiny-see-fall/articleshow/77188116.cms||Isha Jain
July 27, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: NSUI begins ‘flower diplomacy’ to woo rebel MLAs||JAIPUR: At a time when Congress is hitting the streets to save its government from falling in the state, its student wing National Students Union of India (NSUI) is knocking at the doors of rebel MLAs in Jaipur and persuading their families to call them back from Manesar (Haryana) for a dialogue with the party. NSUI state president Abhishek Choudhary is approaching the families of rebel MLAs with flowers to convey a message of respecting people’s mandate by saving the democratically elected government. “All these 19 MLAs are our senior party leaders who won on the Congress ticket in December 2018. Neither they have quit Congress nor joined the BJP. It clearly means that they are part of the family and have some differences which can be sorted out with a dialogue,” said Choudhary, who has covered the residence of nine rebel MLAs by 4pm. His team started the day by approaching the family of Ved Prakash at his residence at Mansarovar in Jaipur. “Here we took the blessings of his mother and urged the family to convey our message to respected Prakasji to return to the party. She told me that Prakashji’s father is unwell. I took the doctor to her residence,” said Choudhary. The next in line was the residence of Tonk MLA Sachin Pilot. Here the NSUI team met Nathu Lal one of the staff members at his residence. They, however, returned leaving red roses at his residence. The team met the brother of MLA Dausa Murari Lal Meena and conveyed him the message that how he had contested the polls against the divisive politics of BJP. “His brother has told him to have genuine concerns which the party had ignored. I assured him the entire NSUI team is with him once he returns and bats for his genuine demands,” said Choudhary. Other MLAs covered by them were Ramesh Meena, MLA from Sapotra, Mukesh Bhakar from Ladnu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nsui-begins-flower-diplomacy-to-woo-rebel-mlas/articleshow/77188122.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Lucknow||Kalyan said ‘mea culpa’ to save careers of 7 officers||LUCKNOW: “I am ready to go to jail, not once but hundreds of times for the Ram temple. I own up the responsibility for whatever had happened....” With these words, the then UP chief minister Kalyan Singh said he as the CM was responsible for Babri Masjid demolition on December 6, 1992, in Ayodhya. His admission earned him the Supreme Court's admonition and he had to spend a day in Tihar jail. However, his step saved the careers of seven senior officers. “Had Kalyan Singh not owned up the responsibility of whatever happened on that fateful day, we would have been languishing behind the bars,” remarks an IAS officer who had held a key position in the office of then CM, now leading a peaceful retired life. Kalyan was jailed for a day for contempt as he had given an affidavit in the Supreme Court before kar seva that no damage would be done to the mosque. However, a similar punishment would have ended the career of these IAS, IPS and PCS officers at that time. After the demolition, the apex court served contempt notice on Kalyan Singh and key officers like Prabhat Kumar, then principal secretary, home; Alok Sinha, secretary, tourism; Shankar Agarwal, special secretary, home; Jivesh Nandan, joint secretary, home; RN Srivastava, district magistrate, Faizabad; DB Rai, SSP, Faizabad and Umesh Tewari, ADM, Faizabad. While six of them have now retired, Nandan is serving as additional secretary, home, at the Centre. "As the kar sevaks started gathering in Ayodhya before December 6, 1992, the Central government was sensing a threat to the Babri Masjid. The VHP, however, had promised only a symbolic 'kar seva' around the Ram Janmabhoomi site," recalls an old-timers. While senior saffron leaders, too, reached Ayodhya a day before, the then CM of undivided UP, Kalyan Singh, had to submit an affidavit before the Supreme Court for maintaining the status quo at the disputed site and ensuring that no untoward incident happened there. On behalf of the government, the then principal secretary, home, Prabhat Kumar and other offices had also submitted the affidavit before the Supreme Court. However, when the Babri Masjid was demolished on December 6, 1992, the Supreme Court, taking note of the oath and affidavit by the Kalyan Singh government, issued notices of contempt of court to the then CM as well as to the officers. The contempt notice rattled these officers and they feared that their career might come to an abrupt end if the court pronounced any punishment. However, Kalyan Singh owned up the responsibility and the Supreme Court sent him to jail in October 1994 symbolically for one day, saving the career of seven officers. Later, Prabhat Kumar rose to the post of cabinet secretary and then became the governor of Bihar. Alok Sinha retired as FCI chairman and Shekhar Agarwal retired as secretary, government of India. RN Srivastav, the then DM, Faizabad, has passed away while; DB Rai, the then SSP, Faizabad, went on to become a BJP MP and Umesh Tewari retired as DM, Maharajganj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kalyan-said-mea-culpa-to-save-careers-of-7-officers/articleshow/77188129.cms||Subhash Mishra
July 27, 2020||Trichy||Local transmission on as Trichy sees 670 fresh cases in 5 days||Trichy: Trichy city has reported 670 fresh Covid-19 positive cases in just five days from July 21 and 25, outnumbering the total cases reported between March and June. Unlike the previous months when cases were reported in hotspots, the infection is now widespread, not leaving any of the civic body wards. With district borders closed, the local transmission within the 65 wards and suburbs has led to the city recording an average 130 positive cases a day in the last few days. On July 24 alone, the city recorded a maximum of 177 cases. Accounting for 70% of fresh cases in the district, the surge was attributed to enhanced fever surveillance and testing through fever camps. Trichy corporation has acknowledged that the fresh infections were due to local transmission. Even people who were indoors most of the time but who ventured out to shops have been testing positive. Local transmission is happening in commercial streets and workplaces and the infection is passed on to families and even neighbours. Frontline professionals including doctors, paramedical staff and ambulance drivers had tested positive in recent days.“Roadside eateries and tea stalls still gather crowds. It appears that the authorities are tired and clueless in controlling the spread,” K P Rangaprasad, joint secretary, Satta Panchayat Iyakkam said. The isolation facility established at Yatri Nivas to quarantine primary contacts of positive cases is almost full that the civic body insists primary contacts be on home quarantine if possible. Apart from increased testing from 300 a day to around 600, family members of primary positive cases contracting the infection was another reason for the surge, officials added. “People should avoid crowded spots, wear face masks and frequently wash hands to help us bring down the infections. Public cooperation is vital,” corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/local-transmission-on-as-trichy-sees-670-fresh-cases-in-5-days/articleshow/77188145.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 27, 2020||Vadodara||Residents block society’s gates over ambulance entry||Vadodara: Residents of a society on RC Dutt Road created ruckus on Saturday night to stop an ambulance from entering their complex which also houses a medical imaging centre besides five residential buildings. On Sunday, 21 residents including eight women were detained for unlawful assembly, endangering life, wrongful restraint and under Disaster Management Act.The issue cropped up as residents of Sangita Apartments had closed their complex’s gate after informing Dr Viren Shah, who runs the imaging centre on the ground floor, about it. According to Shah, some residents had informed him through WhatsApp on Saturday evening that as Covid-19 patients visit his centre, they are closing the gates for all. “I told them that the government has allowed imaging centres to remain open as it comes under medical services and I cannot close it. I also informed civic body’s health officer Dr Devesh Patel about it and he, too, asked me to keep the centre open,” Shah told TOI. He added that the complex has just one gate but has an approach which passes through a private property. “The other approach entrance too had been closed and the residents closed the gate of the complex illegally,” Shah said.On Saturday night, when an ambulance from a cardiology hospital reached the imaging centre’s gate, dozens of residents stopped the vehicle from entering. Even as police intervened, residents got into arguments with them and the ambulance carrying an elderly woman left. Eventually as cops detained some of the residents, the ambulance arrived again and it was allowed to enter.The residents said that they don’t have any issue towards the imaging centre but the ambulance or other medical staff that arrives with patients throw their masks and gloves in the complex premises. They also claimed that representations were made to civic body and police about it, but nobody acted.“The patients who come, roam around in the society and they do not practice any hygiene,” said a resident. “We have been telling the doctor repeatedly. Suspected Covid-19 patients and other patients come here for CT Scan and until the patient’s turn comes for the test, they are out in the society and the medical waste is thrown openly,” said Ketan Shah, president, society association’s president. He added that the residents held a meeting on Saturday and served notice to the imaging centre before closing the gate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/residents-block-societys-gates-over-ambulance-entry/articleshow/77186607.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Nashik||‘Follow Dharavi pattern in Jalgaon’||Nashik: A central government team on Sunday advised Jalgaon’s district administration to follow the Dharavi pattern of keeping a complete record of all comorbid patients in every containment zone. The team led by Kunal Kumar, the joint secretary of the ministry of housing and urban affairs, along with Dr Arvind Kushwaha and Dr Sitakanta Banerjee visited parts of Jalgaon district and the city to study the administration’s fight against the infection. The team conducted a meeting with the officials from the municipal corporation, health department, zilla parishad and the police.  District collector Abhijit Raut, said, “The joint secretary has asked to keep every detailed information of the comorbids in the containment zones and conduct health survey of the comorbid patients every week so the Covid symptoms can be gauged early and corrective measures can be taken to reduce the possibility of critical cases and the death s.” The other suggestions were to analyse every Covid death to ensure similar cases in future are handled in the most appropriate manner, urge the people to get themselves tested for Covid-19 and make a mass movement for the people to follow health advisory norms at every juncture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/follow-dharavi-pattern-in-jalgaon/articleshow/77186155.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 27, 2020||Kochi||Keralite couple found dead in Abu Dhabi flat||DUBAI: A Keralite couple were found dead under mysterious circumstances in their flat in Abu Dhabi on Thursday night, according to a local newspaper. Janardhanan Pattiery, 57, and Minija, 52, from Kozhikode district, were residents of Abu Dhabi for nearly 18 years, says the report. Pattiery, who worked with a travel agency, had recently lost his job. Minija was a chartered accountant. “They were calm and quiet people. I don’t remember them having any issue with anyone. Pattiery had lost his job. Earlier they had sold their car. All friends and colleagues are shocked. This was unexpected,” the report quoted a family friend as saying. The couple’s only son, who studied in Abu Dhabi, now works in Bengaluru. “On Thursday evening, their son phoned me saying his parents weren’t answering calls for the past four days. I visited their building. The caretaker said he hadn’t seen them for a few days. On Thursday night, police found them dead inside their flat,” the friend was quoted as saying. The cause of their death was not immediately known.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/couple-found-dead-in-abu-dhabi-flat/articleshow/77187054.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Pune||Pune: Power utility blames civic work for frequent outages||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has claimed that the road digging work undertaken by the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) is causing damage to its underground power cables, resulting in the frequent power failure in certain parts of the city. In a press statement, the MSEDCL stated that frequent digging for the Smart City project, drainage, and water supply works has resulted in damages to its cables in as many as 131 different places in the twin cities. The statement by the electricity distribution company further added, “Power supply to thousands of consumers in Pimpri Chinchwad corporation limits was disrupted in the last few months because underground cables of the MSEDCL were damaged during road digging. The cables from Pimple Gurav, Nigadi and Thergaon areas, were particularly damaged.” The statement also mentioned that the department and the contractor involved in the digging work should ideally notify the MSEDCL before digging so that it can provide information about underground cables. However, since the procedure was not followed, consumers had to suffer during the unwarranted power failure. The MSEDCL in turn had to suffer financial losses due to the damaged cables, the press release said. The MSEDCL has to provide alternate power supply in case of damage to cables and therefore notifying the company becomes absolutely necessary, it added. “The areas such as Sudarshan Chowk, Ramkrishna Mangal Karyalaya, Laxmi nagar, Gulmohar colony in Pimple Gurav have seen damage to the power cables in as many as 53 different incidents in the past five months, while Wakad area too has seen such incidents at least 17 times,” the statement issued by the distribution company said. In Bhosari area incidents of damage have been recorded at least 19 times, the statement mentioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/power-utility-blames-civic-work-for-frequent-outages/articleshow/77187753.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Hyderabad||20-yr-old labourer electrocuted||Hyderabad: A 20-year-old labourer died after getting electrocuted while decorating the arch of a temple in Bandlaguda. The deceased was identified as Pyarasani Lokesh, a resident of YSR Nagar in Hayathnagar. Lokesh accidentally touched a wire while decorating the arch at Renuka Yellamma temple on Sunday. He died on his way to the hospital. A case was registered. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/20-yr-old-labourer-electrocuted/articleshow/77187755.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Lucknow||Bikru probe: ED, SIT await info on don, aides’ assets||LUCKNOW: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) and special investigation team (SIT), which are probing the Bikru ambush which claimed the lives of eight policemen, are waiting for the details of properties amassed by gangster Vikas Dubey and his 56 associates, including 19 family members, to carry out further investigations. Last week, ED and SIT had shot off letters to development authorities in Kanpur, Kanpur Dehat, Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar and Lucknow seeking details of all contracts bagged by Dubey or even those proposed by him. “We have also asked for details of commercial complex owned by Dubey and his associates,” an officer privy to the investigation said. “We will only be able to start investigations once documents related to Dubey’s properties are made available to us,” he said. According to sources, records of Dubey and and his financier Jaikant Bajpai have been found at Kanpur Development Authority (KDA) so far. The documents are being scrutinized before being handed over to the agencies for further probe. A senior officer said letters were also sent to chief executive officers of Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority, New Okhla Industrial Development Authority and Yamuna Expressway Industrial Authority. So far, details of arms and licences of Dubey’s kin and associates have been made available to the agencies by the Kanpur Nagar police. It includes 28 licences issued to 26 people. On July 6, ED wrote to inspector general, Kanpur range, Mohit Agarwal and sought details from district police on the gangster and his aides. Dubey and five of his gang members were killed in separate police encounters between July 3 and July 10 while 15 others have been arrested so far. The don was gunned down in an encounter when he reportedly tried to flee from police custody while being brought to Kanpur on July 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bikru-probe-ed-sit-await-info-on-don-aides-assets/articleshow/77188140.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Madurai||From begging, this orphan turned his life around with a little help and selling tea||Madurai: A Tamilarasan, 23, ekes out a meagre income of Rs 600 a day by selling tea on a bicycle in and around Alanganallur in Madurai district. Even with his modest income, he does not forget to feed the homeless as he himself was a beggar till only a few months ago and relied on others for food. Whenever he comes across people on the roadside, it reminds him of the days when he was begging around in tattered clothes. “I prepare extra food when I prepare for myself. I carry 10 packets of food along with me during each meal time and hand it over to the needy with a water bottle,” he said. Tamilarasan lost his parents when he was just one-and-half-years-old and was raised at a home in Aruppukkottai. He passed out with a bachelor’s degree in computer science from a college in Dindigul district and went to Chennai in 2017 with dream of landing a job. He tried getting a job installing CCTV as he was good at it, even tried in malls, textile showrooms and hotels, but learnt it the hard way that connections are required to land a job. One night, towards the end of 2017, his bag containing his certificates, a pair of dress and Rs 2,000 cash was stolen. Faced with starvation, he started looking for food in garbage bins and eventually begged for money. After spending three years in Chennai, he came to Madurai to try his luck. He made Madurai railway junction his home but was chased away when the Covid-19 lockdown came into force. He moved to Alanganallur with Rs 7,300 in his hand. He wanted to get a shelter first, but people were not ready to rent out a portion for a stranger. “A local youth helped me by speaking to a house owner to get a room at Rs 1,300 on monthly rent. I did not meet him before or after that. I was thinking for a whole week what to do in life next before taking a decision to sell tea. There are many tea shops in the area but all of them were closed due to the lockdown and I saw it as an opportunity,” he said. Although he made Rs 2,000 daily during the lockdown, his earnings came down to Rs 600 as tea shops are now open. He tried to get Rs 1.5 lakh loan through Prime Minister Employment Generation Program to start a computer centre to pay bills and access government services for people. Although it was approved by the district industries centres, the loan was rejected by Canara Bank for lack of documents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/from-begging-this-orphan-turned-his-life-around-with-a-little-help-and-selling-tea/articleshow/77176419.cms||V Devanathan
July 27, 2020||Bareilly||Two boys drown in Kheri river;5th such death of minors in 5 days||Bareilly: Two children of Hajipurva Dalalpurva drowned in the local Ull river on the outskirts of Lakhimpur city on Saturday evening while their bodies were fished out on Sunday morning, taking the number of drowning cases to five — all children — in the district just in a week. According to police, Saahil (13) and Saddam (12), along with a group of children from the village, had gone for swimming when they were swept away by the river. Other children attempted to save their friends, but in vain, said police, adding that “disappointed, the children returned home quietly and didn’t inform anyone about the incident”. When the duo did not return home, their families started searching for them and even made an announcement over a mosque’s loudspeaker in the village. Their search, however, ended with the finding of the children’s footwear on the river banks on Sunday morning. Later, the bodies were fished out of the river, said police. Sadar kotwali SHO Ajay Mishra said, “We are investigating the matter and have sent the bodies for autopsy. We have requested the administration to install caution signages, prohibiting children from going into the river. We have not received a complaint in this connection, so far.” This is the third such incident reported from Lakhimpur Kheri in a week. On Saturday, a 13-year-old boy drowned while taking a bath in a canal in Belwamoti village of Dhaurahra tehsil. On July 21, two minor brothers drowned in the Ull river while taking a bath along with friends. Besides, on July 2, two minor girls drowned in a canal while playing in Nighasan area of Kheri district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-boys-drown-in-kheri-river5th-such-death-of-minors-in-5-days/articleshow/77184638.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 27, 2020||Pune||MLC demands justice for girl’s murder||Pune: Leader of the opposition in the Maharashtra Legislative Council, Pravin Darekar, on Sunday demanded stringent action against the suspects involved in the brutal murder of a 17-year-old girl near Khed. The girl was bludgeoned to death and her body was later found dumped in the bushes. The police have detained three men for their alleged involvement in the murder. The girl’s parents alleged that the trio had killed their daughter as they had complaint against them for harassing her. Darekar on Sunday visited the girl’s house. Later, Darekar also met the additional commissioner Ramnath Pokale of the Pimpri Chinchwad police and demanded stringent action against the suspects involved in the murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mlc-demands-justice-for-girls-murder/articleshow/77187770.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Bareilly||Two boys drown in Kheri river;5th such death of minors in 5 days||Bareilly: Two children of Hajipurva Dalalpurva drowned in the local Ull river on the outskirts of Lakhimpur city on Saturday evening while their bodies were fished out on Sunday morning, taking the number of drowning cases to five — all children — in the district just in a week. According to police, Saahil (13) and Saddam (12), along with a group of children from the village, had gone for swimming when they were swept away by the river. Other children attempted to save their friends, but in vain, said police, adding that “disappointed, the children returned home quietly and didn’t inform anyone about the incident”. When the duo did not return home, their families started searching for them and even made an announcement over a mosque’s loudspeaker in the village. Their search, however, ended with the finding of the children’s footwear on the river banks on Sunday morning. Later, the bodies were fished out of the river, said police. Sadar kotwali SHO Ajay Mishra said, “We are investigating the matter and have sent the bodies for autopsy. We have requested the administration to install caution signages, prohibiting children from going into the river. We have not received a complaint in this connection, so far.” This is the third such incident reported from Lakhimpur Kheri in a week. On Saturday, a 13-year-old boy drowned while taking a bath in a canal in Belwamoti village of Dhaurahra tehsil. On July 21, two minor brothers drowned in the Ull river while taking a bath along with friends. Besides, on July 2, two minor girls drowned in a canal while playing in Nighasan area of Kheri district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-boys-drown-in-kheri-river5th-such-death-of-minors-in-5-days/articleshow/77184650.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 27, 2020||Pune||Mastermind, accomplice in net for posing as BJP chief||Pune: The Nigdi police on Saturday arrested the mastermind and another suspect involved in demanding money from doctors and traders in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad by impersonating state BJP chief and Kothrud MLA Chandrakant Patil. The police have identified the suspects as Vishal Shendge (28) of Kondhwa and Kiran Shinde (26) of Lohiyanagar. “Shendge, a criminal on record, is the mastermind of the plot. In 2014 he had tried to extort money by impersonating Shiv Sena MLAs,” senior inspector Ganesh Jawadwad of the Nigdi police told TOI. Jawadwad said Shendge and Shinde’s arrests followed that of their accomplice Saurabh Ashtul (21) on Thursday. Jawadwad said the suspects had stolen a coconut vendor’s SIM card from Yerawada on June 29 and had used it to call doctors and traders. “One of the suspects used to pose as Patil’s personal assistant and another as Patil and demanded sums ranging from Rs10 lakh to Rs25 lakh to fight Covid-19,” he said. The fraud came to light when a doctor from Nigdi approached Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mastermind-accomplice-in-net-for-posing-as-bjp-chief/articleshow/77187764.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Hardik Patel’s elevation sparks leadership struggle||GANDHINAGAR: The elevation of former Patidar reservation agitation leader Hardik Patel to working president has caused upheaval in the Gujarat Congress. While a small but enthusiastic section of young workers are upbeat about the development, the old brass is upset and believes he will cause more damage than gain to the party. The 27-year-old Hardik has emerged as a challenger to leader of opposition Paresh Dhanani, who is also the face of the Patidar community in the party. Party insiders say Hardik Patel’s appointment will create a struggle for leadership of the Patidar community. A veteran Congress leader who has been with the party for over three decades said, “Many of our age group are not keen on working under Hardik Patel. Getting media attention for the wrong reasons is one thing, and getting votes for the party is an altogether different thing. The Congress did benefit from the Patidar agitation, but is it now a thing of the past. Wooing voters on caste and community lines is difficult.” On the power struggle within the party, sources in the Congress said, “Hardik has emerged as a challenger to leader of opposition Paresh Dhanani, who is seen as the strongest Patidar leader in the party. Hardik is certainly capable of attracting the masses. About half a dozen MLAs are with Hardik and Dhanani will struggle to maintain his leadership of the community in the coming days.”Another senior Congress leader said, “Hardik Patel’s hardliner image in favour of the Patidar community is certainly a big problem for us. The SC, ST and OBC communities are traditional Congress vote banks. Non-Patidar communities and leaders are likely to be displeased with his elevation as working president. It remains to be seen whether he turns out to be an asset or liability for the Congress in 2022.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hardiks-elevation-sparks-leadership-struggle/articleshow/77187779.cms||Kapil Dave
July 27, 2020||Pune||Man duped of Rs 13.4 lakh in SIM card swap fraud in Pune||PUNE: A 47-year-old resident of Chikhali Pradhikaran was duped of Rs 13.4 lakh in a cellphone SIM swap online fraud. The cybercrook not only siphoned Rs 3 lakh from the man’s bank account but also managed to obtain a pre-approved personal loan of Rs 10.4 lakh from his bank. The fraud occurred between May 6 and 7. The man had approached the bank and filed a complaint. On Saturday, he lodged an FIR with the Chikhali police. Senior inspector of the Chikhali police Satish Mane told TOI that on May 6, the complainant received a call from a man claiming to be an executive of a telecom company from Uttar Pradesh. The caller told the complainant that the latter was using 3G SIM card and if he did not upgrade it to 4G, his card will be blocked. “The caller then took details from him and sent him a 19-digit number and requested him to forward the number to the telecom company’s service number,” Mane said. He said that the complainant’s then received a message from the company that his SIM card will be deactivated during the upgrading process and will be activated on June 7 at 3pm. “When his SIM card did not activate on June 7, the complainant contacted the ‘executive’, who told him that the card will be activated within an hour,” Mane said. The complainant, however, became suspicious, and tried to operate net banking, but failed. “He then contacted his bank was told that someone had obtained a loan of Rs 10.4 lakh from the bank in his name,” Mane added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-duped-of-rs-13-4-lakh-in-sim-card-swap-fraud/articleshow/77187777.cms||Mihir Tanksale
July 27, 2020||Nashik||MSEDCL covers 5k distribution boxes in Nashik, Ahmednagar||Nashik: The Maharashtra State electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has covered more than 5,000 distribution boxes across Nashik zone comprising Nashik and Ahmednagar districts as part of a special safety drive conducted last week. Right from linemen to the chief engineer of Nashik zone , every personnel was asked to check for impending danger in their jurisdiction and get it rectified. “The aim is to get infrastructure for zero accidents,” Sanjay Khandare, in-charge chief engineer of MSEDCL, Nashik Zone, said. The linemen were given the task of looking out for the loose ends of wires dangling in the open and fixing them. In addition, they were asked to cover all the distribution boxes whose lids were stolen or misplaced. The MSEDCL personnel replaced 5,576 lids over the distribution boxes in and across cities. “We put up iron sheets as lids on distribution boxes to prevent any kind of mishaps which may include people accidentally touching the circuits inside the boxes or for that matter even the animals coming in contact with the live system,” a senior officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/msedcl-covers-5k-distribution-boxes-in-nashik-ahmednagar/articleshow/77186190.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Crime branch nabs two for committing several thefts||Ahmedabad: City crime branch on Saturday detained two members of a gang — Raghuveersing Tilpitya, 21, of Sardarnagar and Balwansing Patva, 24, of Dahod — for committing thefts disguising themselves as locksmiths.According to ACP Bhagirathsinh Gohil, on July 17, a similar kind of theft was committed in Kagdapith police station area.“Inspector J P Roziya and his team got the CCTV footage and through informers got the two identified. They were arrested from the city when they once again came to commit thefts disguised as locksmiths,” said Gohil. Roziya said they have recovered Rs 10,000 and instruments to repair lock from them. The two accused have confessed before police that they have committed thefts in Kagdapith, Vadaj, Godhra, Kalupur Railway Station in the city and in several parts of Delhi, Rajasthan and Haryana.Sources said they used to roam in the city as locksmiths and when called by someone to repair locks, they used to divert their attention and commit thefts. “Accused Raghuveersing has earlier been arrested in Sardarnagar, Ratlam in Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Delhi while Balwansinh has earlier been arrested by Naroda police and Rabdal police in Dahod Rural area,” said Gohil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/crime-branch-nabs-two-for-committing-several-thefts/articleshow/77187786.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Nashik||Jalgaon jailbreak: No trace of escaped prisoners||Nashik: A day after three undertrial prisoners escaped from Jalgaon jail, the police are still on the lookout. However, senior police officers said it is just a matter of time and the criminals will be arrested soon. Bhagyashree Navtakke, additional SP of Jalgaon, said, “We have formed different teams and sent them in all directions of the district and even in neighbouring districts to trace the suspects.” He added, “All three suspects are seasoned criminals. They may have even escaped outside the district. The last time one of the suspects — Sushil Ashok Magare of Pahur in Jamner taluka of Jalgaon — was arrested by the police from Vadodara. Magare, an expelled policeman had committed dacoity at a jewellery shop in Pune last year.” Police have also released the photographs of the three criminals on the social media and appealed to the citizens to contact them if they ae spotted. The trio escaped from the prison premises on Saturday morning by threatening the guard with a firearm. One of their associates waited outside the jail entrance with a bike on which they escaped. “The suspects had managed to procure a firearm inside the prison. Using the gun, they threatened a guard and assaulted him. They then snatched the keys of the gate and when they reached outside, a man was waiting for them on a motorcycle. They sat on the motorcycle and fled,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jalgaon-jailbreak-no-trace-of-escaped-prisoners/articleshow/77186195.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 27, 2020||Lucknow||Sunil Rathi ordered RLD worker’s killing: Cops||Meerut: Feared UP gangster Sunil Rathi is still calling the shots from the country's high-security Tihar Prison in Delhi, UP Police said on Sunday as it arrested one of his aides for allegedly shooting dead a Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) functionary in Baghpat. Rathi was transferred to Tihar after he allegedly shot dead another gangster Munna Bajrangi inside Baghpat Jail on July 9, 2018. But, UP Police now believes that it didn’t stop him. On July 7, RLD’s Deshpal Khokhar was shot dead in Baghpat’s Badrakha village by three men. Khokar was involved in a dispute with Rathi’s local aides over sand mining in the region. He was not allowing their vehicles to pass through his region. “Three police teams were working round the clock to crack the case. The main shooter, Sourav alias Goli, was arrested on Sunday. And he acted at the behest of criminal Sunil Rathi currently lodged in Tihar,” said Ajay Kumar, superintendent of police (SP) Baghpat. According to SP Kumar, Saurabh and his two aides carried out the killing. Apart from trying to arrest the remaining two accused, the local police are also working to find out how Rathi was able to establish contact with his aides. Rathi was transferred to Tihar Jail on court orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sunil-rathi-ordered-rld-workers-killing-cops/articleshow/77188152.cms||Piyush Rai
July 27, 2020||Pune||12 specialists on home visits to tide over hosp anxiety||Pune: If the institution of the family doctor waned over the decades, the Covid-19 induced lockdown is bringing the doctor back to homes on a limited scale in Pune. A group of doctors across several specialisations in the city are now part of the collective named Majha Doctor, Majhya Ghari (My doctor At My Home). They aim to reach out to citizens hesitant to visit hospitals’ out- patient departments or clinics for consultation, due to fear of contracting the coronavirus.That collective started in June has completed nearly 60 housecalls in about a month, the majority of the patients being senior citizens. “Families used to have their doctors, who would know and trust each other, and they could share their medical issues and expect them to be solved. With the advent of specialist physicians, the concept of the family doctor was largely gone and there’s a gap between the patient and the doctor. With this venture, where people can schedule specialist appointments at their homes, we are somewhat trying to bring the family doctor concept back, especially with the pandemic, as many are afraid to visit hospitals or clinics for consultation,” Rituparna Shinde, a cardiologist, and founder of the venture, said. “In a few cases, we found that the patients were experiencing a stroke. In other cases, we found cases of appendicitis and urinary tract infection. Since some were not our patients originally, we set up a video link with their doctors, so that we could prescribe the appropriate medicine according to the patient’s medical history,” diabetologist Ashwini Joshi,said. included She is part of the collective which includes around twelve doctors, technicians, and a physiotherapist.ors who attended to the cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/12-specialists-on-home-visits-to-tide-over-hosp-anxiety/articleshow/77187782.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
July 27, 2020||Madurai||Madras HC upholds removal of cop for suicide bid||MADURAI: Madras high court has confirmed a single judge’s order upholding the removal from service of a police constable who attempted suicide using his service rifle during duty at the residential quarters on the high court Madurai bench campus in 2016. S Kameswaran, who was appointed as police constable in 2011, was posed for duty as security guard at the residential quarters of one of the judges of the high court. He attempted suicide due to mental stress using his service rifle on June 9, 2016. Following the incident, a criminal case was registered and, after inquiry, the disciplinary authority awarded punishment of removal of service. When the appellant preferred an appeal, the appellate authority confirmed the punishment on the ground that he had attempted suicide twice earlier. The judges said that the appellant had admitted his delinquency but pleaded for leniency and mercy. The judges said the disciplinary authority had exhibited some leniency by passing the order of removal from service instead of dismissal so that it does not operate as stigma with respect to his future career. Observing that there was no infirmity in the order of the authorities, the judges confirmed the single judge’s order and dismissed the appeal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-upholds-removal-of-cop-for-suicide-bid/articleshow/77187789.cms||Kaushik Kannan
July 27, 2020||Chennai||Covid in town, first day at college has to wait||CHENNAI: The transition from school to college for thousands of students is likely to be, thanks to Covid-19, in the digital realm this year, robbing them of the campus experience. “I want to pursue BCom and have applied to top colleges. I heard from seniors about how great college will be and so I’m excitedly waiting for reopening. We’ll be disappointed if we begin with online classes where you can only interact with teachers and not get to know your classmates and make friends,” said G P Mukilan. With admissions still on, many feel they are already missing out on the ‘college experience’. “I was hoping to visit some campuses before applying but now it is not possible. I’m also anxious about how I’ll be able to cope up with college level studies. Studying everything online would be scary, especially in my first year,” said S L Jenny, a BSc (computer science) aspirant. K Sindhu of Madurai, keen on pursuing BSc in visual communication, was waiting to travel to Chennai and Coimbatore to look at campuses. “We won’t be able to mingle with our seniors to get to know the college better.” K R Gurusakthi, who is awaiting online classes at Pune-based Suryadatta Institute of Fashion Designing to begin, says that by the end of Class XII, her friends and she only talked about joining a new college, meeting new people, and exploring opportunities. “The current situation upsets me, but I’m still positive and hoping that I won’t miss out on any experiences.” Teachers say the ‘initiation phase’ will be different this time. “For us too, it will be a challenging and new experience if colleges reopen with online classes. During the first semester, the focus is more about getting to know each other and building a rapport, rather than academics. It is also the time when students slowly begin to open up to us. This may not be the same with online classes,” said M Rajesh, assistant professor, zoology, The American College, Madurai. Those who have joined universities abroad are also in new territory. “My brother who pursued higher studies in the US used to tell me how great the college was, the friends he made, and the exposure he got. I was really looking forward to it too. But then Covid-19 happened. Now I’m eagerly waiting for things to get normal and for flights to start operating so I can be the first to get there,” said Cedric HJ Emmanuel, who will study physics at Michigan State University. Vibhu Ravindran, who joined University of California at Berkeley to major in physics, was looking forward to meeting professors in person, learning from them and interacting with his peers. “But none of that is going to happen for a while,” said. Although excited that online classes will begin next month, he is worried about the timings. “The teacher interaction happens only during office hours, but for me that’s past midnight.” (With inputs from Aditi R)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-in-town-first-day-at-college-has-to-wait/articleshow/77187792.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
July 27, 2020||Goa||BJP using govt machinery to come to power: Cong||Panaji: Congress on Sunday condemned BJP for using government machinery to destabilise and topple state governments around the country. Party leaders said that BJP has undermined every law and institution in the past six years and “legalised horse trading” to come to power. “Rajasthan is the latest example of how BJP under Prime Minister Narendra Modi misuses institutions and taxpayer money to destabilise and topple democratically-elected governments,” state Congress president Girish Chodankar said. In an online campaign, Congress called on the people to condemn BJP for thwarting their mandate. “The people’s mandate is very important, and people’s will will always have priority,” leader of opposition Digambar Kamat said. “Right from 2017, we saw how the rights of elected representatives were trampled, like in Manipur and Goa, (where) in spite of the mandate being given to Congress, they didn’t allow the party to form the government,” he further said. After forming governments in Manipur and Goa, BJP also succeeded in toppling the Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh state governments. In the case of Rajasthan, Goa desk in-charge and AICC secretary A Chellakumar directly blamed Modi for stalling the urgent assembly session called by Congress. “They are trying to get the speaker’sdecision overuled,” Chellakumar said, adding, “This shows that the Modi government is trying to interfere in the legal system of the country. If Modi has faith in democracy, call the assembly session.” Kamat said that even as the Covid-19 pandemic peaks, BJP is using undemocratic means to bring down Congress-ruled state governments. “I think it is high time that the people of India come together to show the world that India is a democratic country and will always remain a democratic country,” said Kamat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-using-govt-machinery-to-come-to-power-cong/articleshow/77188154.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Madurai||Court upholds life term of man who killed 6-yr-old son||Madurai: Observing that there is no medical record to show that a man was suffering from schizophrenia, the Madras high court confirmed the conviction and life sentence awarded by the trial court to him for murdering his 6-year-old son in Tirunelveli in 2014.The deceased Sureshkannan is the son of the appellant Sakthivel. On March 29, 2014, Sakthivel stabbed his son to death using a knife and also injured his 7-year-old daughter Sakthikala who tried to prevent the attack. When Sakthivel’s wife Rajakali and son Rajavel attempted to stop him, he caused injuries on himself using the knife. A case was registered by the Kadayam police who arrested Sakthivel. The additional district and sessions court in Tirunelveli convicted and sentenced Sakthivel to undergo life imprisonment under IPC section 302 in 2018. A division bench of Justice T Raja and Justice B Pugalendhi said that the defendant’s counsel relied on a medical certificate issued by a psychiatrist at the Tirunelveli medical college hospital in 2019, which stated he was suffering from paranoid schizophrenia and hence had committed the offence without his knowledge.The judges said that the doctor who treated the appellant at the Tenkasi government hospital stated that he was conscious and answering questions. The judges said that Rajakali and her children who are witnesses in the case denied that the appellant was taking any treatment for mental illness. The judges observed that as per IPC section 84, the act of a person of unsound mind is not an offence. Since no medical records were placed before this court stating that the appellant had taken treatment for any mental illness prior to the incident, the judges said the appellant is not eligible for exemption.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/court-upholds-life-term-of-man-who-killed-6-yr-old-son/articleshow/77187795.cms||Kaushik Kannan
July 27, 2020||Bareilly||22 year old woman killed for dowry in Pilibhit; 7 booked||Pilibhit: Seven members of a family were booked on Saturday evening for allegedly killing a 22-year-old woman for dowry at Naugwan Pakadia village under Sungari police station. Two of the accused have been arrested.Complainant Narul Navi of Sarainda Patti village, under Amaria police station, alleged his daughter, Nahid Bi, was tortured for dowry ever since she married Firoz Ahmad in 2018. He had given sufficient dowry at the time of her marriage but her husband and in laws wanted a car and Rs 2 lakh cash.Four days ago, his daughter came to her parental home, saying she was sent to get Rs 1 lakh immediately. He somehow persuaded her to go back to her husband’s home, said Narula Navi.At 3 pm on Saturday, he was informed by a friend that his daughter had been strangled to death. He rushed to her house and found her body lying on a cot.Atar Singh, SHO, said Nahid Bi's husband and six of her in-laws have been booked under IPC section 304 B (death of a woman is caused by any burns or bodily injury or occurred otherwise than under normal circumstances within seven years of her marriage), 498 A (subjecting a woman to cruelty by husband or his relatives) of IPC and provisions of the Dowry Prohibition Act.Firoz and his mother, Chanda Bi, have been arrested while the others are at large, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/22-year-old-woman-killed-for-dowry-in-pilibhit-7-booked/articleshow/77185567.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Trichy||Bank hotspot: No tracing of contacts or quarantine alert||Trichy: After around 40 employees of the State Bank of India administrative office campus in Trichy tested positive for Covid-19, neither the bank management nor the local body has initiated an intense contact tracing. Hundreds of customers are suspected to have visited the campus when the employees, who had tested positive for Covid-10, were at work. But the authorities are yet to alert the customers to be under home quarantine.SBI administrative office campus on McDonalds Road near Trichy railway junction accommodates several branches belonging to various banking verticals. Meanwhile, in a mass screening conducted on the campus by a recognised private lab on July 22, at least 30 banking and support staffs were tested positive for Covid-19. The results were intimated to the employees on July 23 and the bank was closed on July 24. However, on July 22 and July 23, at least hundreds of customers have visited the personal banking branch (PBB), home loan sales team (HLST) branch and small and medium enterprises (SME) branch functioning on the SBI administrative office campus. While fumigation was carried out to disinfect the campus, no efforts were made to trace the customers who visited the campus on July 22 and July 23. Two of the security guards were also tested positive.Trichy Corporation acknowledged a communication gap between the civic body and SBI management. As a result, contact tracing and quarantining the customers are yet to begin, which is likely to pave the way for a new cluster in the city.“Since the bank has reported a death, contact tracing is important. We will communicate with the lead bank to avail the details of the customers who had visited the bank,” Trichy Corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said. While efforts to contact the SBI Trichy’s management went in vain, lead bank Trichy said that the district administration will be intimated about the need for tracing the customers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bank-hotspot-no-tracing-of-contacts-or-quarantine-alert/articleshow/77188150.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 27, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad dist reports 130 cases, breaches 13k-mark||Aurangabad: The district reported 130 fresh Covid-19 patients on Sunday, including 37 detected at city’s entry point and 44 found by the mobile swab collection squad of the civic body, taking the total number of cases to 13,038. The death toll rose to 443 after six deaths were reported on Sunday. Most of them were undergoing treatment at Government Medical College and Hospital, which has been designated for treating critical patients and comorbid Covid-19 patients. The average Covid death rate of Aurangabad is 3.39% and as per the latest target, the state has decided to bring it well below 1%. As many as, 377 patients were discharged on Sunday, taking the total number of patients recovered to 8,536. Authorities said the district has 4,059 active patients. The authorities have attributed the rise in Covid-19 cases to the increase in testing. With over one lakh covid tests, the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation is among those civic bodies, that have conducted the highest per million testings in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-dist-reports-130-cases-breaches-13k-mark/articleshow/77186230.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 27, 2020||Madurai||Ancient stone crusher found in Madurai village||Madurai: A stone dating back to the ninth century used for grinding oil seeds and millets has been discovered in a village on the outskirts of Madurai. The stone also had an inscription. Lieutenant S Rajagopal, assistant professor of history, Mannar Thirumalai Naicker College, Madurai along with his students M Palanichamy and M Ramar, had gone to the spot on being informed that a peculiar stone was found in an agricultural land between V Periyakulam and Sarantangi villages in Vadipatti taluk. They found the circular stone with a 33 cm deep depression in the middle, with an outer diameter of 64 cm and inner diameter of 44 cm. The hole in the middle was 20 cm in diameter. An inscription on the border of the stone -- ‘vattaluthu’-- pertaining to the early Pandiya period, the 9th century AD, was also discovered. The letters were shown to renowned archaeologist from Madurai Dr C Santhalinga, who read it as, “Katanutta naadi ituvitta cekku” meaning the `Sekku’ (crusher) that was made by Katan Utta Nadi. It may have been a common crusher used for grinding grains and fodder, said Rajagopal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ancient-stone-crusher-found-in-madurai-village/articleshow/77187806.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Madurai||Cop selection: No HC relief for man who challenged rejection||Madurai: Madras high court has dismissed an appeal moved by a man challenging the rejection of his candidature for recruitment to the post of police constable citing shortage of the required height.Appellant G Vigneshkumar applied for the post of grade II police constables/grade II jail warden/fireman for the recruitment done in 2017. He had cleared the written examination but in the physical endurance test held on July 29, 2017, he was disqualified as his height was less than 170cms.Though he challenged this before the Madurai bench of the Madras high court, a single judge dismissed it, which prompted him to file the present appeal.A division bench of Justices M Sathyanarayanan and P Rajamanickam said height measurement of the appellant was done according to the guidelines framed for the recruitment. The height of the appellant is 169.6cm which could not be rounded off to increase to 170cm as per the guidelines. The judges observed that the prescription of the qualification under the required criteria falls within the exclusive domain of the selection authority and the court in exercise of its appellate jurisdiction cannot act as a super selection authority to override it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cop-selection-no-hc-relief-for-man-who-challenged-rejection/articleshow/77187800.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Chennai||City colleges to begin new session with online classes||CHENNAI: With the state government promoting all college students to the next academic year without exams in view of Covid-19, the previous academic year (2019-20) has ended. And city colleges are chalking out plans to begin the new session. After finding out that a majority of students have access to digital devices with internet, colleges are drawing up a time-table for online classes. Online classes will be made available on YouTube and other platforms so that students can access it later if they cannot stream live classes or have doubts. "We could not start the next academic year without knowing whether there will be exams or not. It has given clarity. Now, students also will be motivated to attend online classes for next semester," said B Chidambararajan, principal of Valliammai Engineering College. Its online classes will begin on August 10. "We have conducted a trial run. Students need 700MB data for two to three hours of online classes," he said. Students also gave feedback flagging poor connection and frequent disconnection. Some colleges have trained its faculty to take online classes. "We are planning to conduct four-hour classes per day -- two hours in the morning and two hours in the evening," said R M Kishore, vice-chairman of RMK Engineering College. Arts and science colleges in the city are planning to take online classes. Madras Christian College (MCC) is mulling classes with flexible timings. "We plan to conduct online classes from the first week of August," said P Wilson, MCC principal. Wilson said 93% of students have access to digital devices. "We could not reach 5% of our students due to connectivity issues," he said. Guru Nanak College grouped students based on their schools and prepared a common time-table. "The online classes will begin from Monday. We are planning to conduct classes in the morning and webinar in the afternoon," said M G Ragunathan, principal. The college has conducted remedial classes online for students. "The attendance is better than offline classes. During a survey, we found 98% of our students have access to gadgets with the internet," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-colleges-to-begin-new-session-with-online-classes/articleshow/77187820.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: New Town complexes to convert community halls into Covid-care units||KOLKATA: Community halls inside New Town housing complexes are ready to serve as safe homes for mildly symptomatic or asymptomatic Covid patients. These micro-isolation units will have doctors and nurses attached to them with support from social welfare organizations that are already in talks with housing societies across the township to work out the details. The first such centre could start functioning as soon as the health department gives its nod. Over the last two days, several housing societies held meetings with the New Town Forum & News (NTFN) — a New Town-based social welfare organisation that will provide support and guidance — on the need to set up such micro Covid care facilities at community halls or spaces inside complexes. The Greenwood Sonata Apartment Owners Association is the first to have planned and set up such a facility in collaboration with New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) and NTFN. They are waiting for the state health department’s approval to start off the facility. The housing society will launch the centre with two doctors – both residents of the complex. “We had a Covid patient in our complex who incidentally is a doctor by profession who has volunteered to join this initiative,” said Sudipta Mukherjee, president of Greenwood Sonata Apartment Owners Association. “We are ready and will start off the facility as soon as we get the approval. As of now, we will start with five beds and two doctors, while the nurses or caregivers will be outsourced,” Mukherjee said. The housing society has about 2,000 residents. NTFN chairman Samaresh Das said they have been planning Covid care units and are ready to assist housing complexes. “Many of the housing societies and blocks have expressed their willingness to set up such facilities within their complexes,” said Das. “It is a splendid initiative by the local welfare associations and NGOs and we, from NKDA, are supporting them on this initiative,” said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen. NKDA has set up a Covid war room where doctors and officials are monitoring the Covid situation in New Town and guiding the resident associations. Debanjan Kundu, one of the two doctors involved with the Greenwood Sonata initiative and was affected by Covid, said that the facility is being set up following the government’s micro Covid facility guidelines. “The hall has an attached bathroom and separate entry and exit gates. We have planned to turn this hall into a micro Covid facility for the benefit of the residents,” he said. Several housing societies have expressed their willingness to have such a facility in their complex and have set up teams to look into any emergency situation. “We are eager to have such a facility in our complex. We have the space and can provide infrastructure facilities,” said Subho Dasgupta, treasurer of Moonbeam Apartment Owners’ Association. “We are eager on having such facility in our complex and discussions are on,” said Gobinda Biswas, general secretary of Sunrise Point Apartment Owners’Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-town-complexes-to-convert-community-halls-into-covid-care-units/articleshow/77187837.cms||Suman Chakraborti
July 27, 2020||Nagpur||KTPS engr, who defied q-norms to go to Nanded, tests +ve||Nagpur: An assistant engineer at Khaperkheda thermal power station (KTPS), who has now tested Covid positive, was on Saturday booked for leaving the district violating the quarantine order. The engineer’s swab samples were collected last week and he was kept in home quarantine. Later, the authorities had asked him to shift to a KTPS guest house. Instead of following the order, the engineer left on a bike to Nanded. A complaint in this regard was lodged by panchayat samiti member Rahul Tiwari with Khaperkheda police station where an offence has been registered. Senior inspector C Kale of Khaperkheda police station said the engineer has now been isolated in Nanded after the local authorities were alerted about him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ktps-engr-who-defied-q-norms-to-go-to-nanded-tests-ve/articleshow/77187830.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 27, 2020||Chennai||Sewage inundates street in Chennai's Jamaliya Nagar||CHENNAI: While many Chennaiites welcomed the rain in June and July, for residents of Jamaliya Nagar Main Rroad and Krishnadass Road, it has become a nightmare — for whenever it rains, sewage starts bobbing out of the stormwater drain network. Photos shared by residents show the road inundated in sewage. “This was after one full day of no rain,” said 67-year-old S Lokabiraman, a resident. Residents say the problem has been recurring for six months now. However, officials from Greater Chennai Corporation and Metrowater have not fixed the leakage. Lokabiraman, a local member of the citizen-led movement Exnora, said the drains are old and sewage lines have been diverted into the stormwater drain. “Some residents are releasing raw sewage into the drains which overflows during rain,” he said. A senior corporation official said release of sewage was a problem across the city. “It chokes the drain network and impedes flow of rainwater through the drain,” the official said. Residents said the drains are 20 years old and renovation work that began a few days ago ran into problems with the local police due to inadequate permissions. A few days ago, a joint committee of local Metrowater and corporation officials surveyed the spot after complaints from residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sewage-inundates-street-in-jamaliya-nagar/articleshow/77187827.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Hyderabad||Asymptomatic Hyderabad mayor Covid-19 positive, met KTR and Asaduddin Owaisi||HYDERABAD: Mayor Bonthu Rammohan tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday and is in home quarantine as doctors attending on him said he was asymptomatic to the virus. A medical team is monitoring him round-the-clock and a contact tracing process has been initiated as the GHMC mayor met minister KT Rama Rao on July 24 to wish him on his birthday. He had also attended the foundation stone laying event of an elevated corridor on July 23, where AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi, two ministers and two AIMIM legislators were present at the Government Printing Press, Chanchalguda (GHMC Charminar zone). Sources in TRS and AIMIM said they are monitoring the health condition of all workers. “Family is the primary contact and fortunately they have tested negative, so we are not very worried,” said a TRS leader, while an AIMIM leader also echoed the same. Mayor and his family underwent the rapid antigen test on July 25, the third time he got tested. In June, he got himself tested twice and the reports were negative. On Sunday, Rammohan in a video said that he felt healthy and had no discomfort. “People tested positive should not panic, if a person is confident, he can win the Covid-19 battle,” said the mayor. KTR and MAUD principal secretary Arvind Kumar wished him a speedy recovery on Twitter. “Get well soon Mayor Garu. I am sure you’ll be back to normal in no time; Take care,” tweeted KTR. Rammohan said that he will continue his work and review civic works through video conference with officials. A GHMC official said that mayor is chalking out plans to contact other patients who recovered from Covid-19 and organise a plasma donation camp with maximum number of donors possible in Telangana Bhavan post-recovery and he will also donate plasma. On Sunday, the mayor held a video conference with GHMC officials and directed them to focus on seasonal diseases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/asymptomatic-mayor-ve-met-ktr-asad/articleshow/77188153.cms||Nabinder Bommala
July 27, 2020||Rajkot||Patan to house garden in memory of Kargil heroes developed using Japanese technique||Palanpur: A garden in memory of war heroes of the 1991 Kargil war is being developed in Patan district.The garden that will be spread on 10,000 square metre area is being developed in 21 stretches as a tribute to 21 martyrs who lost their lives in the war.Foundation stone for the garden was laid on Sunday marking the 21st anniversary of Kargil Vijay Diwas (victory day). Total 4,500 saplings of 51 species were planted during the day.“We will be planting 11,111 trees at this garden,” said Paras Patel, founder of Prayash Welfare Foundation which is involved in development of the garden.The garden is being developed using the Miyawaki technique pioneered by Japanese botanist Akira Miyawaki that helps build dense, native forests popularised as mini forests.“This will be the first garden in Gujarat that will be developed in memory of Kargil martyrs using Japan’s Miyawaki technique,” said district agriculture officer Shailesh Patel, adding that besides district collector Anand Patel, eminent citizens remained present during the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/patan-to-house-garden-in-memory-of-kargil-heroes-developed-using-japanese-technique/articleshow/77186228.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Aurangabad||MIM member abuses drivers on Covid duty||Aurangabad: A co-opted member of the AIMIM, Abul Hasan Hashmi, has been booked by the police for allegedly abusing drivers operating the city bus service for parking the vehicles in front of the civic administration’s office and threatening them with dire consequences. The buses have been deployed for ferrying task-force members carrying out antigen tests at different locations in the city. A complaint was registered at City Chowk police station on Saturday evening following which a case under sections 353, 188, 503 and 504 of the IPC and relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act were booked against Hashmi. When contacted, Hashmi refuted the allegations levelled against him and said he would contest the case legally. As per the complaint lodged by city bus driver Shriram Rathod, Hashmi was driving his SUV past the civic body’s office around 5pm on Saturday when he found the buses parked on the road. Hashmi allegedly stepped out of his SUV and, without any provocation, started abusing the drivers for parking the buses on the road and threatening them with dire consequences. Besides not wearing a mask, Hashmi also violated social distancing norms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mim-member-abuses-drivers-on-covid-duty/articleshow/77186246.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Trichy||G Corner mass test results yet to be declared||Trichy: Trichy Corporation, which has been facing criticism for not conducting ample number of tests in the mass screening carried out at G Corner wholesale vegetable market on July 22, has not declared the results of the RT-PCR tests so far. Sources said that the head-load workers and vegetable traders who gave their swabs for the test were not following the home quarantine measures. Trichy City Corporation conducted a mass screening on June 22, following pressure from various quarters for not screening people at the G Corner market where 10 vegetable vendors were suspected to have contracted Covid-19. But, the number of samples collected was restricted to 32, the lowest scale of mass screening ever conducted in the city since the outbreak. Though four days have passed since the samples were collected, Trichy Corporation has not disclosed the test results. However, the people who gave their samples are continuing with their routine life without waiting for the test results. The delay in sharing the test results is happening for third time in the civic body. Previously, the authorities had delayed sharing the test results for mass screenings conducted at Gandhi market and Anna Nagar Uzhavar Sandhai market vendors. While none of the traders screened at Thevar Hall tested positive, seven in Uzhavar Sandhai were positive, and all of them were asymptomatic. The Uzhavar Sandhai test results were disclosed after five days. Since the wholesale vegetable market at G Corner is visited by various grocery shops and retail vegetable traders for their purchase, local people have expressed their worry over a possible Covid-19 spread due to the delay in declaring the test results. “We are coordinating with MGMGH lab to get the test results. There seems to be a backlog of samples,” a corporation official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/g-corner-mass-test-results-yet-to-be-declared/articleshow/77188156.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 27, 2020||Chennai||Cops feed homeless amid lockdown||Chennai: They may be busy chasing lockdown violators and checking vehicles out on the roads plying essential commodities, but the city police found time out on Sunday to feed the homeless. With the complete lockdown in place in view of the coronavirus pandemic, police arranged food for the pavement dwellers and beggars. The destitute mostly depend on alms from commuters every day, but with the city forced indoors, police came forward with food packets. Police have arranged a cook who prepares meals in the morning and afternoon at a community hall taken on lease. Police personnel pool in money from their colleagues to prepare the food. They mostly distribute idlies for breakfast and variety rice for lunch. Police sources said they distributed 150 food packets in St Thomas Mount area, 300 packets in Secretariat Colony, 200 packets in Mylapore and 250 packets in Kumaran Nagar. “On the days of complete lockdown, people do not step out of their homes to distribute food. We do not want them to starve. This is being done across the city,” said Secretariat Colony inspector Rajeshwari, who helps her colleagues distribute food on every Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cops-feed-homeless-amid-lockdown/articleshow/77187834.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Woman held for abusing actor tests Covid positive, missing||CHENNAI: A video blogger, Suriya Devi, who was arrested on Friday on charges of abusing actor Vanitha Vijayakumar on social media and was released on bail the same day, has tested positive for Covid-19. The woman has now gone missing. Police inspector Renugadevi of the all-women Vadapalani police station who had arrested her has self-quarantined herself. But on Sunday afternoon, Devi posted a nine-minute video saying she did not go into hiding and was on self-quarantine. In the video, she alleged harassment by the police. Coughing in between, Devi said she suspected the test result. On Friday, Devi was arrested based on a complaint from actor Vanitha. The actor said that Devi posted videos abusing the actress and her marriage. The actor said the vlogger was spreading false information and was giving her death threats. Devi was produced before a magistrate after being subjected to a Covid-19 test. She was granted bail without being remanded. The results declared on Saturday confirmed that she was Covid-positive. Soon after, corporation officials went to her apartment where they found that the house was locked. They alerted the Vadapalani police who have launched a hunt for her. “She has to quarantine herself as she could spread the disease to her family members and others,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/woman-held-for-abusing-actor-online-tests-ve-for-covid-goes-missing/articleshow/77187843.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Meeting today to decide new lockdown dates||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to hold a meeting with senior administrative officials, police and health experts on Monday to decide on the next set of lockdown dates. Senior state officials indicated the biweekly lockdown model has been “successful” and is likely to continue. The next announced lockdown date is July 29 (Wednesday). “The lockdown was successful and people, barring some, have willingly stayed indoors. This will help in our fight against the disease”, state director of health services, Ajay Chakraborty, said. Sukumar Mukherjee, who is part of the Bengal’s Covid advisory panel, said, “Intermittent lockdown is not a solution but it will help in flattening the curve. The lockdown has been successful. The state now needs to focus on how they will handle the crowd on non-lockdown days. People are pouring out once the markets are open and this will increase the risk further.” TimesViewThe first bi-weekly lockdowns would have given enforcing agencies a good idea of the areas of concern. Things must be improved here. But citizens too must behave responsibly on non-lockdown days. Irresponsible behaviour on five days of a week can undo all the good that two days of lockdown may do.Sources indicated that the meeting on Monday is expected to decide the lockdown dates till August 15. But it is not clear on which day the state will declare the second lockdown this week due to religious festivities in the later part of the week. Thursday — July 30 — is Jhulan. Senior officers are also not keen on a back-to-back mid-week lockdown. The management of the Nakhoda mosque has formally announced that Eid Ul Azha will be celebrated on August 1, which is a Saturday. “The chief minister will preside over the meeting and take a final decision,” an officer said, even indicating that the meeting will consider whether to resume the biweekly lockdown from August first week. State home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay had indicated that August lockdown dates would be decided on Monday and would depend on a “evolving dynamic feedback”. On July 20, a meeting chaired by the CM decided on the biweekly lockdown model, prompted by expert opinion that stressed the need to “break the chain of infection”. Experts had opined in the meeting that Bengal has experienced “some specific community transmissions” of the novel coronavirus. The last state-wide total lockdown day in Bengal was on May 31. Health experts also feel that the twice-a-week lockdown could reduce the disease burden, free up hospital beds and break the chain of transmission to a certain extent. But how much impact it could have on containing the spread of the infection will only be known on how successfully the complete lockdown is enforced and after a few weeks of such lockdown. The government, however, has given district magistrates the power to decide on the total lockdown dates. In many municipalities and district towns, a week-long lockdown is under way which will continue till next week. On Sunday, the Purulia DM imposed a total lockdown in Purulia Municipal Town and Adra Railway Town (North and South side) from 4pm on Monday (July 27) to Thursday (July 30) midnight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/meeting-today-to-decide-new-lockdown-dates/articleshow/77187855.cms||Saibal Gupta
July 27, 2020||Bareilly||Woman tests Covid +ve after child’s delivery, ward staff refuse to work||Bareilly: Staff on evening duty at a female delivery ward of a district hospital in Shahjahanpur created a ruckus after they came to know that a woman, who had delivered a baby on Sunday morning, was tested positive for Covid-19. Their anger was directed towards the senior staff who according to them withheld the "Covid information". CMS Anita Dhasmana, however, said that it was a miscommunication and now the ward has been closed for sanitization. The ward was evacuated later on Sunday night and the patients were asked to make their own arrangements for treatment. Video clips of the incident are being shared on social media platforms. A staff nurse, who doesn’t wish to be named, told TOI, “We are really worried as no one informed us that a Covid-19 positive woman was admitted here till evening and no sanitization was done after the woman was shifted to the Covid-19 ward. All the staff and the patients are now exposed to the deadly virus and immediate action should be taken in this case.” In a video, a patient who was discharged was purportedly seen saying that she had no other option, but to shift to a private hospital. No alternative arrangements were made till the time of filing this report and several women were referred to community health centres for delivery. Dr Dhasmana added, “We have sealed the delivery ward as of now and the staff nurses who came in contact with the woman have been quarantined and their samples would be sent for testing. The ward will start functioning soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-tests-covid-ve-after-childs-delivery-ward-staff-refuse-to-work/articleshow/77185612.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 27, 2020||Madurai||Brothers murdered by gang of 10||Madurai: A 45-year-old man and his younger brother were hacked to death allegedly by a 10-member armed gang near Ellis Nagar in Madurai city on Sunday. They were identified as V Murugan, 45, and V Senthilkumar, 40, from Pazhaya Colony in Bodi Line area. While returning to home after attending the final rites of a relative at Sellur, they were returning home, they were intercepted by the gang near their house. Though they tried to escape, they were chased down and murdered. On being alerted, a police team led by SS Colony inspector Flower Sheela reached the spot and conducted an inquiry. Deputy commissioner of police (law and order) R Shiva Prasad also visited the spot. The bodies were shifted to government Rajaji hospital for autopsy. Police sources said that a few cases were pending against Murugan and Senthilkumar including robbery, murder and ganja peddling. They had an enmity with a gang from the same area regarding ganja sales. Recently, the duo was also involved in the attack of a cow belongs to one of their opponent gang members. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/brothers-murdered-by-gang-of-10/articleshow/77187850.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Dehradun||Foxlights aiding fight against leopard attacks: Study||Dehradun: Non-lethal visual deterrents like foxlights are likely to prove an effective solution to mitigate man-animal conflict and even prevent the degradation of numbers of carnivorous species, according to a study conducted by scientists from Wildlife Institute of India. WII experts said that the year-long study was conducted under the National Mission on Himalayan Studies in the wake of the rising man-animal conflict due to leopards in Pauri district of Uttarakhand. Depending on the size and spread of the village, foxlights were mounted at specific vantage points, at the periphery of a cluster of houses. The lights were solar-powered and flickered at random intervals during night. The computerised flash in three different colours were meant to ‘mimic movement or activity of local community members’ and could be seen over a kilometre. The study, conducted from April 2018 to April 2019, states that the killing of livestock in leopard attacks in Pauri’s 27 villages reduced to almost half (36) as compared to 69 in areas without foxlights. It said, “A significant decline in livestock depredation by leopard in sites with predator deterrents support the hypothesis that foxlights reduced the number of livestock losses to nocturnal attacks within the villages in western Himalayas.” WII senior scientist S Sathyakumar said, “This study is the first known experiment testing the effectiveness of non-lethal visual deterrents in reducing livestock losses to common leopards in south Asia. We suggest developing site-specific coexistence strategies and adopting non-lethal measures to safeguard carnivores, livestock and humans within shared landscapes. Fox light can give considerable success in improving human-predator relations and create pathways of coexistence within developing regions of the world.” The study, published in PeerJ-the Journal of Life and Environmental Sciences recently, states that a staggering 125 leopards have been killed in Pauri alone between 1990 and 2005. In 2019, Uttarakhand lost 181 human lives to wildlife conflict and the topmost predator remained leopards which killed 61 people. This year too, at least 24 people have lost their lives to man-animal conflict, of which over 12 in leopard attacks alone. “We have to use foxlights in combination with various other methods of human-wildlife conflict mitigation. A proper community support will help in getting optimum results,” added Sathyakumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/foxlights-aiding-fight-against-leopard-attacks-study/articleshow/77186252.cms||Shivani Azad
July 27, 2020||Trichy||Families queue up after snag in Trichy crematorium||Trichy: A snag that developed in Oyamari electric crematorium in Trichy made the waiting time longer for the families to cremate the Covid-19 casualties and people who died of other reasons. The crematorium has seen a surge in the arrival of bodies to the crematorium due to Covid-19. They include the ones who were from other districts but succumbed at the hospitals in Trichy. The crematorium situated near the banks of Cauvery river on normal days witnesses the cremation of four to five bodies per day, but it witnessed a surge, of up to 15 per day post Covid-19. As one of the two burners in the crematorium developed a snag recently, officials said only one burner is being used. On Saturday, while the families of two Covid-19 casualties were waiting for cremation, another deceased person was brought in. Claiming that the body arrived from MGMGH was that of an influential family, attempts were made to bypass the two families. “Crematorium is not properly managed, can understand the workers were under immense stress since the outbreak but the dead bodies should be cremated without showing any preferential treatments,” C Muthumariappan, a relative of a deceased victim said. Trichy corporation officials said a section of locals far from suburbs are interested to cremate their family members in Oyamari for sentimental reasons, to dispose ashes in Cauvery river, thus causing a bottleneck. Officials said that the snag developed in Oyamari crematorium will be rectified soon. To reduce the waiting time, the civic body said a new electric crematorium in Srirangam is to be opened for use shortly. “We are planning to use Oyamari crematorium exclusively for cremating Covid-19 positive patients,” said the corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/families-queue-up-after-snag-in-trichy-crematorium/articleshow/77188174.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 27, 2020||Lucknow||Experts: Covid-19 may cause cardiac injury too||Lucknow: Normally known to attack the lungs, the coronavirus could also be adversely affecting the heart. Concerns over the impact of pandemic infection have been raised by the Cardiological Society of India. “Different studies across the world have indicated that about 20-30% of the patients hospitalized due to coronavirus suffered a cardiac injury,” said vice-chairperson CSI and senior faculty at Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Prof Satyendra Tewari. Cardiac injury is defined as raised levels of cardiac troponin, which is a protein released in the body by injured heart muscle. The CSI, in its statement guideline published in the Indian Heart Journal, cited multiple studies to explain the mechanism of cardiac injury. It stated that the majority of cardiovascular events in patients with Covid-19 are the result of severe immune overreaction by the body called cytokine storm. Simply put, when a person is infected by the novel coronavirus his or her immune system tries to fight back. Too many cytokines — small proteins important in cell signalling — are released into the blood too quickly, thus leading to a cytokine reform. This has been linked to many complications, including heart attack in patients with Covid-19. Respiratory failure and lack of oxygen in blood — other known effects of Covid19 — can also impair the heart’s functioning. Heightened inflammation due to Covid-19 can cause clotting of blood which can cause heart attack, experts said. Many researchers have linked Covid-19 with myocarditis or heart muscle damage. According to CSI guidelines, this can happen due to direct infiltration of the novel coronavirus into the heart muscle but mainly it is attributed to the cytokine storm occurring in response to the systemic inflammation. “Cardiac injury usually becomes evident in the second week of the illness and manifests as ECG changes, troponin elevation, ventricular dysfunction or arrhythmias. Any of the above mechanisms which cause cardiac injury can potentially lead to heart failure. Also, the hemodynamic stress and inflammatory milieu can worsen pre-existing heart failure,” CSI said. Several studies conducted in China and Europe suggested the death rate among persons with pre-existing heart disease, who get Covid-19, is much higher compared to others. “Case fatality rates reported are 6% for hypertensives, 7.3% for diabetics and 10.5% among those with cardiovascular disease, while the overall case fatality rate was only 2.3%,” studies indicate. Dr Ambuj Roy, professor of cardiology at AIIMS, who co-authored the CSI guidelines, said that people with heart diseases should practice isolation meticulously, frequent hand washing and social distancing. “Due to travel restrictions, many patients with pre-existing heart disease, for example heart failure, are not able to visit doctors. My advice is they shouldn’t discontinue medications. They can contact their doctor on phone and, based on their opinion, continue with medications,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/experts-covid-19-may-cause-cardiac-injury-too/articleshow/77188165.cms||Shailvee Sharda
July 27, 2020||Goa||Despite brief lull, monsoon activity bountiful in Goa||PANAJI: The seasonal total rainfall in Goa has crossed the 2,000mm mark at almost all rain gauge stations across the state. Only the Mapusa rain gauge station has recorded a little below this mark. “As on July 26, the cumulative total is 20% higher than normal for this entire season,” India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientist Rahul M said. So far, Pernem has recorded the highest seasonal rainfall with a cumulative total of 2,507mm of rainfall (as of 8.30am on July 26) while Mapusa has recorded the lowest with 1,909mm rainfall. Currently the impact of the monsoon is weak over Goa, but with its revival predicted by the end of the coming week, rainfall activity is expected to pick up. This may enable all rain gauge stations in the state to record a seasonal total rainfall of over 2,000mm by the end of July. In 2019, this milestone was achieved on August 6. From July 1 to July 26, a total of 104% of July’s total normal rainfall has been achieved in Goa as compared to 107% in 2019, data shared by IMD revealed. “The July normal rainfall of 1,069.8mm was crossed on July 18 this year as opposed to July 24, last year,” Rahul said. While no weather warning has been issued for July 27 and 28, IMD has forecast that heavy rain is very likely to occur at isolated places on July 29. A weather warning has been issued for high sea and other coasts beyond 75km from the coast. Wind speed reaching 50-60 km per hour is likely to prevail over the southwest Arabian Sea and adjoining west-central Arabian Sea up to July 29, IMD’s weather bulletin said. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea during this period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/despite-brief-lull-monsoon-activity-bountiful/articleshow/77188172.cms||---
July 27, 2020||India||Special flight brings in 11 persecuted in Afghanistan||NEW DELHI: In the middle of a global pandemic, a flight from Afghanistan on Sunday brought back to Delhi 60-year-old Nidan Singh Sachdeva, who was abducted from Paktia province of Kabul in June and released from captivity on July 18 after a month of torture. Along with him were 10 others from the Sikh and Hindu communities, including children, who reached Delhi seeking refuge from the threat of religious persecution. The Indian government facilitated the return of Sachdeva, one more Hindu-Afghan national and nine people from one Sikh family (five of them children) who lost other members of their household in the terrorist attack on a gurdwara in Kabul’s Shor Bazaar in March. Sachdeva, like many Sikh and Hindu minorities in Afghanistan, came to India with his wife and children in the early 1990s to escape persecution and targeted attacks. Sachdeva goes back to Paktia every year to visit a gurdwara in his native place as he is the primary caretaker. This year too, despite the lockdown, he took a flight on April 13 and was soon abducted. His family wrote to PM Modi seeking the Centre’s intervention. Sachdeva told TOI, “I will not go back again now. I have been tortured for a month and beaten up so many times by my abductors that my whole body hurts even now.” He and the 10 others will be kept in quarantine in Gurdwara Rakabganj guest house run by the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee. The Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, if they choose to exercise it, will have the right to seek Indian citizenship under the CAA. This was indicated by the MEA recently.This is the first time the Indian government has openly pointed to the CAA as a route to citizenship for minorities in neighbouring countries. The Afghan government was initially indignant, but repeated abductions and terror attacks targeting the minority Hindu and Sikh communities in Afghanistan might make it difficult for them to oppose it. For nine others who arrived, it will be a new life born of tragedy. Balwant Kaur recalls how both her sons who were sewadars (caretakers) were killed in the Shor Bazaar attack. She points at a 14-year-old girl sitting next to her who is the daughter of one of her deceased sons. It turns out that girl was abducted from outside her house some days ago. On their arrival, ministry of external affairs issued a statement to say that “around eleven members, belonging to the Sikh and Hindu minority community of Afghanistan, arrived in India today. Nidan Singh Sachdeva, who was released from captivity on July 18, is also among those who reached Delhi today.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/special-flight-brings-in-11-persecuted-in-afghanistan/articleshow/77188487.cms||Ambika Pandit
July 27, 2020||Kolkata||Prices shoot up as Sunday markets return to business with depleted stocks in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Back-to-back lockdowns seem to have adversely hit the supply chain. Most of the markets in the city saw a handful of vendors selling old stock at a premium rate. Majority of grocery shops remained shut due to supply shortage. It did not feel like a Sunday market at all. Some vegetables like tomato and drumsticks (sajne data) touched Rs 100 a kg. Brinjal soared to Rs 80 a kg. Green chillies, particularly the Beldanga variety, were sold at Rs 200 a kg. It is mainly due to semi-functional wholesale markets and non-functional ‘haats’ in the rural Bengal from where wholesale markets source their items for trade. Because of weekend disruptions in the supply chain, a large number of vendors preferred to skip business on Sunday and those, who were there, tried to sell old stocks in a bid to clear what they had carried forward from Friday. The price, however, remained very high and vendors said that fresh stocks were due to arrive in the markets on Monday. Vendors have also prepared a procurement routine to adjust to the staggered lockdown regimen that the state is adopting. Not only vegetables, buyers were also upset about the quality and variety of fish available on a Sunday. At Lake Market, where the demand for tiger prawns soars on Sundays, the availability was poor. Retailers complained that supplies were not coming in from North 24 Parganas and Midnapore. Only the small variety of prawns were available and sold at Rs 350-400 a kg, up from the usual Rs 270 a kg. Most buyers had to buy rohu and katla at a steep price. “Can you imagine a Sunday market where sellers are sitting with such a little variety? I wanted to buy pomphret, but most sellers didn’t have it. Those who did, had a few pieces of the bigger variety left that were sold at Rs 750 a kg, up by nearly Rs 100,”, rued Chaitali Bagchi, a retired banker who lives on Fern Road. In case of rohu and katla, the prices were up by at least Rs 80-Rs 100 a kilo. The availability of hilsa was another sore point across markets. “It’s the height of monsoons and you are still getting the 500-600 gram varieties that are selling at Rs 900 a kg,” said Sandip Banerjee, a liaison executive with a real estate brand, who lives on Harish Mukherjee Road. People complained about the unavailability of Chandramukhi variety of potatoes on Sunday. The Jyoti variety too was sold at Rs 30 a kg. Most fruit sellers had vanished from the markets on Sunday. “The staggered lockdown has affected movement of truckloads of fruits because they are being stopped at various locations. Price of majority of mango varieties has soared beyond Rs 100 a kg,” said Anwar Sheikh, a fruit seller at New Market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/prices-shoot-up-as-sunday-mkts-return-to-biz-with-depleted-stocks/articleshow/77187866.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
July 27, 2020||Goa||AAP slams govt for facelift of Goa assembly||PANAJI: AAP on Saturday said that the decision of the chief minister to give the assembly complex a facelift by splurging Rs 7 crore is yet another mockery of the people of the state. AAP said it was expected that the government would understand the difficult plight of the citizens and allocate funds for welfare instead. AAP youth leader Lourenco Silva said that thousands employed in the tourism and allied services have lost their jobs and livelihood and business activities in all sectors of industry had been affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aap-slams-govt-for-facelift-of-assembly/articleshow/77188183.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Aurangabad||Kannad youth jumps into gushing water to save man||Aurangabad: A youth from the Andhari village in Kannad tehsil became a local hero after he saved a man from drowning in an overflowing tributary on Sunday morning. A video of the incident has now gone viral on social media, attracting appreciation from different quarters. Incessant rain in the area has caused rivers and tributaries to swell. On Sunday morning, a young man named Samadhan Wankhede had gone to the banks of the Bhordi river to look at the gushing water. However, he slipped and fell into the water, and started drowning. People standing on the banks cried for help, but were too scared to enter the water given the strong current. One man tried, but quickly returned to the safety of the banks. However, 22-year-old snake rescuer Akshay Vidhwans, ignoring the warning of other Andhari residents, jumped in to rescue the drowning youth. As Vidhwans struggled to save Wankhede and avoid being washed away himself, other residents brought a rope and threw it towards the duo to give Vidhwans something to hold on to. They then pulled the duo out of the water. Vital Badakh, a Kannad resident said, “Due to the strong water currents, people feared that both the young men would drown, but Vidhwans managed the difficult feat.” He was later felicitated by local residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/kannad-youth-jumps-into-gushing-water-to-save-man/articleshow/77186271.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Anti-CAA activists raise funds, buy 2 ambulances||BENGALURU: A group of students, who had first met during the anti-CAA and NRC protests in December last year, has started a free ambulance service with two vehicles for anyone in need. These students also actively took part in relief work for lakhs of migrant workers during the lockdown under the banner, ‘Bengaluru for Migrant Workers’. Saqib Idrees, 24, one of the students, told TOI that during their work, they noticed either there was a shortage of ambulances or very high rates were being charged even to transport patients for a short distance. That’s when they decided to do something about it. “We had started crowdfunding for relief work and had some funds left from that time. We continued crowdfunding through various platforms and were able to raise around Rs 9 lakh. Thankfully, we had a lot of generous supporters, who were willing to help us in this,” said Saqib. The group got its first ambulance on Tuesday and the second one on Friday. Teresa Braggs, another student who helped in taking the initiative forward on social media platforms, said that the free ambulance service will be available for people from all walks of life, caste and religion. “We had students and corporates contributing generously to our work. We also took to various crowd-funding platforms. The goal was to have an ambulance ready whenever anyone needed it,” said Teresa. The student group with around 30 members has also tied up with Vimochana, an NGO, for better reach. They plan to raise more funds for a third ambulance and oxygen cylinders and have also helped 12-15 Covid patients clear their bills. The youths have the support of people like Fahad Khalid, vice-president at Goldman Sachs, Khaleel ur Rahman, an owner of a cafe and Usman Anwar Sharief, an industrialist. “Our goal is to be there for people at any step they want. Even as students, we want to do our bit,” said Saqib.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/anti-caa-activists-raise-funds-buy-2-ambulances-for-covid-duties/articleshow/77186969.cms||Farheen Hussain
July 27, 2020||Aurangabad||Bharat Ratna for Sathe, says Congress||Aurangabad: Ahead of the birth anniversary of Annabhau Sathe, the local unit of Congress reiterated the demand to award the Bharat Ratna to the late folk poet. State Congress delegate Jitendra Dehade, in an official memorandum submitted, said the state government should follow up the demand to confer the highest civilian award to Sathe with the Union government. Sathe (August 1, 1920- July 18, 1969) belonged to ‘Mang’ community and his literary work reflected struggles of many downtrodden. “Annabhau has left indelible mark on the literary and social movement in Maharashtra,” said Dehade||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bharat-ratna-for-sathe-says-congress/articleshow/77186282.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Lucknow||UP: 77 booked in Bahraich for Friday group namaz||LUCKNOW/BAHRAICH: As many as 77 persons were booked in Bahraich for offering Friday prayers in a congregation in violation of lockdown curbs. An FIR was registered late Saturday on the report of a police circle officer following an inquiry. In the past four months, 1,500 persons have been booked across the state for violating lockdown norms and offering namaz in groups. On Friday, circle officer, Kaiserganj, Jang Bahadur Yadav, was informed by sub-inspector Harshvardhan Singh that people in Jathora village were offering namaz in a congregation. On being tipped off, UP 112, police response vehicle and a police team reached the spot and dissuaded people from holding the gathering. People informed the police that imam Shamim Ahmad had called them for namaz. However, many of them dispersed before the police team arrived. The circle officer conducted a preliminary probe and lodged an FIR against 47 named persons including the imam along with 30 unidentified attendees. “All the 77 attendees were booked on charges of violation of prohibitory orders in view of pandemic, negligently spreading disease dangerous to life, and disobedience of quarantine rule and Disaster Management Act,” said SHO, Jarwal Road, Harshvardhan Singh. Bahraich superintendent of police Vipin Mishra said, “We are regularly making announcements asking people not to hold gatherings. Even clerics have asked people not to assemble in mosques for prayers, but some people are not paying heed. Stern action will be taken against them.” In last four months, UP police has registered cases against at least 1,500 people for violating lockdown and assembling for namaz. Maximum 300 people have been booked in Bahraich, followed by Hardoi 220, Lucknow 150, Basti and Auraiya 40 each, Muzzafarnagar 35, Saharanpur 34, Pilibhit and Sant Kabirnagar 30 each, Pilibhit and Kheri each, Aligarh 22 along with others in Deoria, Badaun, Meerut, Mau, Azamgarh, Prayagraj, Mirzapur and Shamli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/77-booked-in-bahraich-for-friday-group-namaz/articleshow/77188181.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Rajkot||Priest’s assistant caught for stealing Rs 46,000 from donation box||RAJKOT: A 30-year-old man, who has been offering his services at a prominent Jain derasar in Soni Bazaar locality, was arrested for allegedly stealing cash from the donation box on Saturday night. Police said Jayesh Baria (28), who was arrested on Sunday, has been serving as the helper to the main priest for the past eight years. “Baria told us that he was badly in need of money, which prompted him to commit the crime,” said VK Gadhvi, inspector with Rajkot detection of crime branch. Baria turned off the CCTV cameras installed inside the derasar and then committed the theft of Rs 46,000 from the box. However, he was caught turning off the cameras. However, his face was not visible as Baria had worn a white hooded raincoat resembling a PPE kit. “During spot investigation, we concluded that no one could have broken into the temple from outside and therefore we suspected that it was the job of an insider. We started interrogating the temple staff one by one. When Baria’s turn came, he broke down and confessed to the crime,” added Gadhvi. Baria then handed over the stolen money to the police which he had kept on the terrace of the derasar. The derasar, ‘Mani Bhadra Dada nu Derasar’, is 200 years old.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/priests-assistant-caught-for-stealing-rs-46k-from-donation-box/articleshow/77186262.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Nagpur||Lonar Lake may turn into ghost structure, warns HC||Nagpur: The historic Lonar Lake would turn into a ghost structure if it isn’t conserved while developing the area on the outer side of its vicinity, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court warned in its recent order. “If the development of lake and its surrounding takes place without any care for conservation, a time will come when it will sound like a home without children and a ghost structure without any life force in it. There would remain nothing more to build, develop and enjoy as a crater lake, the very heartbeat of development would have gone,” a division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Anil Kilor tersely stated. While hearing the PIL by petitioners – Kirti Nipankar and others – through counsel Anand Parchure, the bench clarified that the development should only be in the context of conservation of a unique lake and appreciation of its beauty, biology, geology and aesthetic value. It shouldn’t be in reference to any economic development. In a detailed order pronounced after a marathon hearing, the judges said there’s some confusion regarding the object and purpose of this petition among stakeholders. “Ostensibly, the PIL is filed with an aim of the lake’s preservation and conservation. Gradually, some other issues, though appearing to be quite distinct and divergent, cropped up. In reality, they’re intimately connected.” Stressing that lake’s development is essentially moored in its conservation, the judges said all agencies involved in the case must work in tandem. Agencies like PWD, MTDC, Forest Department, NHAI, MSRDC, ASI, along with the Buldhana collector are respondents in the case. “All these agencies must sit together and sort out various issues which are interlinked and interconnected so that what comes out of such efforts would only ensure the lake’s benefit,” the judges said. Stressing that detailed examination of all issues involved with lake’s preservation is needed, the judges however clarified they can’t resolve all of them. “We think it appropriate to place the responsibility in this regard on the collector. We direct her to look into all issues and give specific suggestions so that further direction can be categorically issued,” they said, while directing Suman Chandra to complete the entire exercise before the next hearing. Explaining that issues in the PIL may look to be different and may also appear to be running counter to the original object, the judges said it’s only an illusion. “The concept of development can’t be starved off and dehors core issue of the lake’s preservation and conservation. If a lake is preserved and conserved for posterity, then only its development will have any meaning,” the judges said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lonar-lake-may-turn-into-ghost-structure-warns-hc/articleshow/77187919.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 27, 2020||Dehradun||Man wanted in Odisha kidnapping case held||Dehradun: The Special Operation Group (SOG) of Dehradun police on Sunday arrested a man who is allegedly the prime accused in a high-profile kidnapping case in Odisha. The accused was identified as Rajeev Dua, who, according to the police, hatched a plan to kidnap the owner of a renowned construction company based in Sambalpur district of Odisha. Based on the alert given by Odisha Police, the accused was arrested near Dobhal Chowk in Raipur area of Dehradun where he was hiding from police, according to Aishwarya Pal, in charge of SOG Dehradun. Originally from Dehradun, Rajeev Dua had migrated to Sambalpur in 2018 and had opened a clothing business with the help of his uncle. However, the business could not take off and he found himself under huge debt. “After facing losses in business, Rajeev met two persons — Saif and Raja — who were also facing financial issues. They together hatched a plan to kidnap businessman Naresh Agarwal. On July 10, they abducted Agarwal in Sambalpur and took him to a rented flat,” according to inspector Pal. Later, the kidnappers panicked after they came to know that the police had launched a massive search operation across Sambalpur to trace Naresh Agarwal. Fearing arrest, they left the kidnapped businessman near his home and fled. Accused Dua has confessed to the police that he left Odisha on July 18 and came to Dehradun and has been hiding since then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-wanted-in-odisha-kidnapping-case-held/articleshow/77186296.cms||Gaurav Talwar
July 27, 2020||Nagpur||94-yr-old man is now oldest Covid survivor of Vidarbha||Nagpur: A 94-year-old man in Amravati triumphed over coronavirus and walked out of hospital on Sunday. Bhojraj Punse, a resident of Hanuman Nagar in Amravati became positive of July 19 along with three others but never lost heart. He is now oldest Covid-19 survivor of Vidarbha. Civil Surgeon Dr Shyamsunder Nikam and staff at the Covid hospital congratulated and wished him long life as the veteran headed for home with the support of a walker. “The old man was courageous during treatment,” said Dr Nikam. Apart from this rare recovery, Sunday was full of milestones for Vidarbha. Covid-19 cases surpassed 12,000 mark and reached 12,040 with 449 new casesin the region. Nagpur, where the two-day Janata Curfew concluded on July 26, reported highest 225 cases in a day. It was followed by Amravati (62), Buldhana (61), Akola (29), Yavatmal (26), Wardha (14), Washim (13), Chandrapur (7), Bhandara (7), Gondia (3), Gadchiroli (1). It took just 48 hours for cases to reach from 11,000 to 12,000 and above. With 11 deaths in a day, Vidarbha’s death toll also reached 315 on Sunday. Nagpur once again recorded highest seven deaths. Amravati reported two while Akola and Yavatmal reported one death each. Case fatality rate of Vidarbha was 2.61% on Sunday, which is still lower than Maharashtra’s 3.6% but slightly higher than national average of 2.31%. Total 279 patients recovered from the region. With Nagpur (67), Buldhana (67), Amravati (44), Yavatmal (29), Chandrapur (28), Washim (15), Akola (14), Wardha (10), Bhandara (3), and Gondia (2) making the tally. Total 8,013 patients have recovered in Vidarbha which means recovery rate is 66.5%, well above State’s 57% and national average of 63%. AMRAVATI: Two men, a 52-year-old from Zamzam Nagar and a 59-year-old from Nishad colony, died at Covid hospital during treatment on Sunday. These two deaths and a spike of 62 cases on Sunday took Amravati’s death toll to 49 and the case count to 1,731. With 44 patients getting discharge, the count of recovered patients went up to 1,142. The number of active patients is now 540, including 14 taking treatment in Nagpur.AKOLA: A 45-year-old man from Mohta Mills area in Akola died during treatment on July 26. He was admitted in Covid hospital since July 22. This took total number of Covid-19 deaths in Akola to 109. Number of daily Covid-19 tests in Akola is still above 300 but the number of positive patients has gone down significantly now. On Sunday, 337 samples were tested on RT-PCR and 12 tested positive. On the other hand 167 rapid antigen tests were conducted and 17 of them tested positive. This took total Covid-19 cases to 2,412. With 1,980 discharged, total 323 are under treatment. YAVATMAL: Recording Covid-19 death for fifth day in a row, Yavatmal’s death count reached 28 on Sunday. A 60-year-old woman from Mominpura in Arni town, tested positive post-death. Twenty five others from Pandharkawada, Pusad, Wani and Yavatmal city also tested positive. Total 29 patients recovered and were discharged on Sunday. Now, Yavatmal has 238 under treatment. CHANDRAPUR: With the detection of seven more positive cases, Chandrapur on Sunday crossed 400 mark. The latest 100 came in 6 days, like the previous hundred. The present total cases here stand at 403. Twenty eight were cured during last 24 hours. Total discharged patients are 248, while 155 are under treatment. Health department officials have claimed that doubling rate in Chandrapur district is now 15.3 days. So far 102 patients have been detected in Chandrapur city, whereas 140 have been detected in Ballarpur, Warora, Rajura, Bhadrawati, Bramhapuri, Korpana, Nagbhid and Gadchandur towns. Remaining 155 belong to rural areas. No local patient from district has died so far.WARDHA: On Sunday, 14 more Covid-19 positive cases were reported. They are from Arvi (7), Wardha (5), and one each from Ghorad village of Selu tehsil and Kakada village in Karanja tehsil. Ten patients defeated coronavirus and were discharged from Kasturba Hospital. Total 146 reports were received on Sunday. Now, Wardha has 163 total cases, 99 of them recovered, six deaths and 58 under treatment. WASHIM: Sunday saw 13 new Covid-19 positive cases and 15 discharges. Cases came from Karanja Lad, Washim city, and rural areas of Mangrulpir and Risod Tehsils. Now, Washim has 531 total cases, including 295 discharged and nine deaths. Total 227 are under treatment. BULDHANA: With a sudden surge of 61 new cases, Buldhana became 4th district of Vidarbha after Nagpur, Amravati and Akola to surpass 1000-mark. Interestingly, 50 of the 61 new cases reported from RT-PCR tests and remaining 11 came from rapid antigen tests. Total 225 tests (100 rapid and 125 RT-PCR) were conducted on Sunday. Buldhana has been conducting rapid antigen tests for past two weeks.As patients are detected at early stage of infection in this test, more are recovering daily. On Sunday, 67 patients recovered taking total number of recovered patients to 653. With 25 Covid-19 deaths till date, Buldhana has 327 patients under treatment. GONDIA: Three more Covid-19 positive cases registered in Gondia district on Sunday. Two of them hail from Tirora tehsil and one is a native of Deori tehsil. Two Bharat Battalion jawans posted at Chichgarh of Deori recovered and were discharged on Sunday. Gondia now has 245 cases, of which 221 have been discharged, 3 have died and 21 are under treatment. BHANDARA: Seven new cases detected while three patients got discharged here. This took total number of cases to 230 and recoveries to 182. With three deaths reported earlier this month, total 46 patients are under treatment in Bhandara. GADCHIROLI: After reporting a spike of 62 cases on Saturday, only one new case reported n Sunday. Total cases reached 511, including 254 recovered and one death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/94-yr-old-man-is-now-oldest-covid-survivor-of-vidarbha/articleshow/77187875.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 27, 2020||Aurangabad||No progress in Marathwada ambulance purchase proposal||Aurangabad: Four months on, a proposal to purchase ambulances for the rural areas in Marathwada as part of the Human Development Mission has not made any progress.As per the proposal, each of the 30 relatively backward talukas in Beed, Hingoli, Parbhani, Nanded and Jalna districts were to get an ambulance. The Marathwada Development Board had submitted a proposal to the state health department in March.Ashok Belkhode, an expert member (health) of the board, said the necessary purchase would have proven beneficial for the region amid the ongoing outbreak. “The state government had sanctioned Rs 50 crore for the Marathwada Development Board, a part of which was to be utilised to buy the ambulances. The health department is sitting on the proposal and is refusing to give technical sanction for the purchase,” he said.Besides ambulance purchase, Marathwada Development Board had also submitted a proposal for purchasing equipment and machinery to strenghenting the primay health centres (PHCs) in rural areas. State health minister Rajesh Tope said the technical issues delaying the process of ambulance purchase would be addressed soon. “The purchase will be expedited. The state government has made a budgetary provision to buy 500 ambulances for different parts of the state, including Marathwada. This purchase will be done soon,” said Tope.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/no-progress-in-marathwada-ambulance-purchase-proposal/articleshow/77186297.cms||Prasad Joshi
July 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Controversy-ridden BIEC Covid Care Centre to finally open today||BENGALURU: The massive Covid Care Centre (CCC) at Bangalore International Exhibition Centre (BIEC), which was in the eye of controversies, will officially begin operations from Monday afternoon. Asymptomatic patients are slated to be treated at the facility. CCC in-charge and senior IAS officer Rajendra Kumar Kataria, who was at the facility on Sunday, said they have conducted a dry run of the CCC and it has been successful. “We are going to open one hall which will have 1,500 beds. As 1,000 patients fill, we will open another hall. If there is inflow, we will open other halls for patients,” he said. The facility has about 6,500 beds, but considering home isolation is a crucial arm of the state’s Covid-19 management strategy and there are multiple CCCs in the city, it’s unlikely to see a rush of patients. “The lessons that I learnt while operationalising nine CCCs have helped in creating this infrastructure well. We have tied up with nearby hospitals and ambulances will be stationed to ferry patients in need, while doctors, nurses, other medical staff and logistics are in place,” Kataria added. The facility is expected to ease the pressure on hospitals within the city and free up hospital beds for serious Covid patients and non-Covid cases. According to Kataria, about 250-300 people are getting into CCCs every day in the city and about 250-270 are being discharged. Initially, the plan was to have 10,100 beds at the facility. But later it was reduced to 6,500 beds after the state government brought in the home isolation policy and hotels and apartments began creating their own centres to house infected people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/controversy-ridden-biec-covid-care-centre-to-finally-open-today/articleshow/77186695.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Engineer nabbed for blowing up six ATMs||BHOPAL: A civil engineer, who tried to crack UPSC and state PSC exams, has been arrested as the kingpin of a gang that blew up six ATMs in Bundelkhand, looting nearly Rs 48 lakh in the past year. The gang of six was arrested on Sunday and Rs 25.5 lakh recovered. Fake currency of Rs 3 lakh face value, two pistols and explosives were also seized. The alleged mastermind, 28-year-old Devendra Patel, had taught himself about explosives on projects to excavate wells, and watched TV crime series to “get ideas”, said police. Police swooped down on the gang members within a week of their last blast-and-loot strike. On July 19, two men had blown up an ATM in Simaria village of Panna and looted Rs 23 lakh. Exactly a month earlier, an ATM in Damoh was looted the same way. After the July heist, police set up an SIT. Meticulous detective work and timely alerts from informers helped police identify the suspects. Police say ringleader Devendra Patel is a native of Damoh who worked as a civil engineer in Bina, and had “studied” blasts to excavate wells in rural areas. “In the last one year, the gang was involved in triggering blasts in Jabalpur, Katni, Damoh and Panna,” said Sagar Range IG Anil Sharma. The gang would recce ATMs in far-flung villages, and choose the unguarded ones. The Simaria one had a guard, though, who was held at gunpoint. “They would plant explosives near the cash tray and detonators behind it. The detonators would be connected with a wire to a bike battery to trigger the blast,” the IG said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/engineer-nabbed-for-blowing-up-six-atms/articleshow/77187873.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
July 27, 2020||Kolhapur||Cop & home guard held for graft||Kolhapur: Anti-corruption bureau on Sunday arrested a policeman and a home guard for accepting a bribe of Rs 3,000. The accused have been identified as Dadahari Bangar, a police naik, and Pravin Patil, a home guard. Both the accused had sought Rs 3,000 from the complainant for returning the complainant’s vehicle. A team led by deputy superintendent of police Adinath Budhwant laid the trap.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/cop-home-guard-held-for-graft/articleshow/77186321.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Nagpur||NMC’s 5 Covid hosps idle for want of staff even as bed shortage bites||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) had developed five Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHCs) with combined capacity of 450 beds a month ago. Unfortunately, they lie unused for want of medical staff even as city experiences a shotage of beds for Covid-19 patients. For fourth day, admission of patients was delayed by one or two days in city as well as in Nagpur Rural. With capacity in AIIMS and Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) about to exhaust, the civic body converted MLA Hostel Quarantine Centre into Covid Care Centre (CCC) which too got full. Newly opened CCC at Shalinitai Meghe Hospital also got full quickly. NMC had to hurriedly convert VNIT Hostel Quarantine Centre into CCC. The civic body is planning to open more CCCs for asymptomatic positive patients. Amid all this, NMC’s five DCHCs at Indira Gandhi Rugnalaya (IGR), KT Nagar, Sadar, Pachpaoli and Isolation Hospital are lying idle. They are meant for treatment of patients with moderate symptoms. There are even 50 ICU beds in them. They could reduce burden of GMCH, IGGMCH and AIIMS. An NMC official told TOI, “DCHCs require over 300 doctors and paramedical staff which is not available with NMC. In April, the NMC had requested the state government to provide the staff on emergency basis. NMC write time and again to the state’s public health department for providing staff but is yet to receive it.” The public health department had started a recruitment drive but it received less response. Even those who were selected are yet to join. NMC is having around 150 medical staff which is used to run three hospitals, two diagnostic centres and 15 health centres. They are engaged in containing Covid-19 since March. Some doctors are holding upto three posts like zonal medical officer for contact tracing, testing and containment zones of entire zone apart from being incharge of health centre and also quarantine centre. NMC is having 347 medical staff for operating 26 Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHCs). They cannot be diverted to DCHCs as UPHCs take care of non-Covid patients in large numbers. NMC is also using staff from state’s health department at CCCs and quarantine centres. It had to send asymptomatic high-risk contacts of positive patients for home isolation due to lack of staff for opening new quarantine centres. Developed with funds sanctioned by the state government under National/state Disaster Relief Fund, DCHCs are having latest diagnostic machines, beds and facilities on par with private hospitals. An official from state’s public health department said they can be brought into use if number of symptomatic patients rises. “At present, there is need for CCCs as over 85% patients are asymptomatic. GMCH, IGGMCH and AIIMS can cater to symptomatic patients if asymptomatic ones are shifted to CCCs,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmcs-5-covid-hosps-idle-for-want-of-staff-even-as-bed-shortage-bites/articleshow/77187874.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka unable to trace 3,000 Covid positive patients in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Even as Karnataka is struggling to contain the unprecedented spread of coronavirus, the authorities said more than 3,000 people who have tested positive in Bengaluru are “untraceable.” “From the beginning till now, there have been 3,338 people whose samples at the labs returned positive, but they are untraceable. We’re working on addressing the issue,” BBMP commissioner N Manjunath Prasad told TOI. Probe said these patients had given wrong cellphone numbers and addresses. “If one of the two was correct, we could have traced them,” he added. The BBMP has now instructed all labs to ascertain the mobile numbers of people giving samples for tests through a one-time-password (OTP) so as to enable tracking. Apart from OTPs, labs will now collect copies of their identity cards and address proof. The issue of multiple people providing wrong contact details had come up for discussion at a meeting chaired by chief minister BS Yediyurappa last week. As on Saturday, Bengaluru accounts for 48% of the total positive cases in the state, while it has 57% of the active cases. The issue of missing patients has doubled the burden of authorities who are already dealing with poor bed management and tracing of contacts. TOI had last week reported that the whereabouts of over 11,000 Covid-19 patients were not being reflected in the state’s official data. As on July 22, the city had 27,969 active cases in Bengaluru. While the total number of beds in hospitals, including Covid care centres, was 13,012, only 6,498 of them were occupied. This apart, 10,319 patients were in home isolation. While the number of patients in hospitals and home isolation added to 16,817, the number of active cases in the city was 27,969. The remaining 11,152 patients were not reflected in the data. Watch Karnataka: 3,000 people tested positive in Bengaluru are 'untraceable'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/3k-ve-people-go-off-radar-in-bluru/articleshow/77186856.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Dehradun||Nepalese officials inspect no-man’s land along border||Pithoragarh: Days after several Nepalese were found to have barricaded a portion of the no-man’s land near the India-Nepal border and a boundary pillar missing, chief district officer and other senior officials of Kanchanpur in Nepal inspected the area adjoining Uttarakhand’s Champawat on Sunday. The Nepalese officials said that they held a meeting with those who have encroached the area and asked them not to start any work there. They added that further steps would be taken after a meeting with their Indian counterparts. On Wednesday, the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) had prevented a few Nepalese citizens from barricading no-man’s land along the border and planting saplings there. They had also found that border pillar 811 was missing from the spot. A meeting of senior district-level officials belonging to both the countries was then convened and the Nepalese had assured that necessary steps would be taken to evict the encroachers. Champawat DM SN Pande said that the district administration had sent a report to the state home department and also lodged a complaint with the authorities of Kanchanpur in Nepal. “We had asked them to visit the area to get an idea of the ground reality. Another meeting of officials from both the countries is likely next week to discuss the issue.” The DM said, “The field survey teams from both countries had held a meeting in January. At the time, the Indian team had wanted the survey to start from Tanakpur and the Nepalese from Lakhimpur Kheri. However, the survey could not be held at all due to the Covid-19 pandemic.” Meanwhile, there were reports of unidentified miscreants causing trouble in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nepalese-officials-inspect-no-mans-land-along-border/articleshow/77186319.cms||Prem Punetha
July 27, 2020||Rajkot||Medical student flaunts politicial connections to threaten woman||Rajkot: Videos of a medical student threatening and using obscene langauge against a woman whose cycle he rammed with his car have caused a flutter on the social media.The student claimed to be a close relative top Gujarat politicians and flaunted his political as well as police connections to threaten the woman.The student was detained for allegedly ramming his car to a woman cyclist on Nirmala Road in Rajkot on early Saturday morning. He was later let off by the police as the woman did not lodge any complaint in this regard. Though no police case was registered, the incident has created a sensation as its video clip has gone viral on WhatsApp and social media. In the video clip, the student is heard hurling abuses and saying, “Vijay Rupani is my uncle and Rajkot deputy commissioner of police Manoharsinh Jadeja is my father’s friend. I come from the family of advocates. You can’t do any harm to me.” The video shows that when a passer-by tries to intervene, the student is heard threatening him too: “Don’t involve yourself in this matter, or else I will frame you in a police case.”Sources said that the student is not related to any politician but only wanted to intimidate the hapless woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/medical-student-flaunts-politicial-connections-to-threaten-woman/articleshow/77186285.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Kolkata||Queen Elizabeth II talks Covid with crisis response official in Kolkata||KOLKATA: On Friday, a consular official at British Deputy High Commission’s office took part in a 25-minute video conference call that she will never forget. Sanjibita Tariang Sen, a vital cog in Britain’s crisis response machinery in India, came face-to-face with Queen Elizabeth II as her majesty inquired about challenges during the mission. “I’ve been a part of the crisis response team for years. Each occasion throws up a new challenge. When the mission is on, it is sapping, but in the end, it is always rewarding to see families getting reunited. That the Queen acknowledged our efforts is a big deal,” she told TOI. Sanjibita was a member of the team that coordinated evacuation of British citizens when the Mumbai terror attacks happened in 2008; when Nepal was rocked by earthquake in 2015; when the suicide bomb attack happened near the US consulate in Jeddah in 2016; and during the Easter Sunday bombings in Sri Lanka last year. “We had to obtain movement permissions during lockdown. Transport from remote locations in Meghalaya and Manipur was difficult. The biggest challenge was arranging a bus from Shillong to Kolkata; requesting assistance from police to help passengers cross borders and getting hotels to open restaurants for dinner and packing breakfast for long journey,” she recounted to the Queen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/queen-talks-covid-with-crisis-response-official-in-kolkata/articleshow/77187883.cms||Subhro Niyogi
July 27, 2020||Lucknow||UP: CM, CS inspect preparedness in districts battling pandemic||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath and chief secretary RK Tewari on Sunday carried out a whirlwind tour of districts which are not only facing surge in Covid-19 cases but are also reeling under flood-like situation. While Yogi took stock of the situation in Gorakhpur, Ballia, Sant Kabir Nagar and Varanasi, Tewari visited Mirzapur and Prayagraj to look into preparedness against coronavirus crisis. Yogi instructed irrigation department officials to keep close vigil on barrages and ensure none of them is breached. Yogi started from his home turf Gorakhpur by conducting an aerial survey of Sahjanwa region which is facing flood-like situation after a rise in water level of rivers. He asked district authorities of Gorakhpur, Sant Kabir Nagar, Ballia and Varanasi to arrange boats in adequate numbers in flood-affected areas. He also inspected Lalit Narayan Mishra Hospital and AIIMS Gorakhpur which are being converted into L-2 hospitals to take care of Covid-19 patients. Officials informed the CM that a 100-bed Covid hospital was being prepared in two phases at AIIMS. Chief secretary RK Tewari inspected Mirzapur and Prayagraj to assess the situation. On Saturday, Tewari had visited Kanpur and Jhansi where high number of Covid-19 cases are being reported. Meanwhile, additional chief secretary, information, Awanish Awasthi said at least 1.9 lakh teams have reached out to over 1.3 crore households covering 6 crore population under the door-to-door survey to assess the spread of coronavirus. Awasthi said the state government was giving thrust to antigen test which was being conducted on a large scale. “People may undergo antigen test to know their health status,” he said. He said besides waging a battle against the pandemic, the state government was also arranging adequate jobs for the people. Citing the figures of rural development department, Awasthi said nearly 21.9 lakh people were being engaged under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS). “Under the scheme, which resumed from April 21, as many as 17 crore man-days of jobs have already been generated. At least 7.9 lakh micro, small and medium scale functional industries have engaged more than 49 lakh people,” Awasthi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-cs-inspect-preparedness-in-districts-battling-pandemic/articleshow/77188189.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Delhi||Teacher to pakora seller: A struggle for survival||NEW DELHI: Till May 10, Abdul Qadir was a contract teacher at a primary school under South Delhi Municipal Corporation. Now, he is busy selling pakoras and jalebis in his home state Bihar. Qadir, who is over 40 years and has 80% locomotor disability, is the sole breadwinner for his family and isn’t left with any other option as his contract hasn’t been renewed. And he is not alone — at least 3,000 more contract teachers in Delhi government and corporation schools are struggling. Their contracts are usually renewed on July 1 every year; but with schools shut due to Covid-19, these teachers are staring at an uncertain future. “Right now we are only getting assurances that they will look into it,” said Qadir, who was a contract teacher at a corporation school near New Friends Colony since 2003. He has completed elementary teaching education from Jamia Millia Islamia and was earning Rs 40,000 per month. Qadir was living in south Delhi’s Zakir Nagar with his family — wife, an eight-year-old daughter and a one-year-old son. They left for Qadir’s village in Siwan district a month ago as it became difficult to manage expenses in Delhi. “The money was getting exhausted so I had to find an alternative. I now make pakoras and jalebis. There’s tough competition in this too and the return is not even 100%,” said Qadir. “I cannot even give tuitions to students as social distancing norms will have to be followed.” Qadir is also worried about his daughter’s education. She was attending a private school in Delhi. “I have no idea whether I will be able to pay her fees. She has no reading materials here. I don’t know what to do.” Contract teachers have met lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and civic officials for a solution. “But nothing has been done so far,” said Qadir, whose age makes it impossible for him to write any competitive examination for another job. Despite repeated attempts, the south corporation has refused to comment. Many contract teachers have taken to social media to highlight their plight and have been writing postcards to the authorities demanding renewal of their contracts. Watch Teacher to pakora seller: A struggle for survival||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/teacher-to-pakora-seller-a-struggle-for-survival/articleshow/77187890.cms||Shradha Chettri
July 27, 2020||Vadodara||21 booked for gathering to welcome recovered patient in Gujarat||VADODARA: Panchmahal police booked 21 people on Sunday night for gathering in Godhra town to welcome a person who had returned home after recovering from Covid-19. Police said that a person identified as Fenil Shah had returned to his home in Shethwada locality in Godhra town on Saturday night. Over two dozen people gathered in the locality to welcome Shah with garlands and showering flowers on him. According to police, all those who had gathered had worn masks, but they all gathered without maintaining social distancing and despite ban on gathering. “We have identified 21 people and there were 10 or more people who were also there but have not been identified yet,” said a police official. All accused have been booked for committing negligent and malignant act which is likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life, under Epidemic Disease Act and Disaster Management Act. In May too, 11 people were booked for gathering in Voharvad area to celebrate recovery of a patient who had returned from GMERS Medical College and Hospital in Vadodara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/21-booked-for-gathering-to-welcome-recovered-patient/articleshow/77187067.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Bhopal||EDITEDAll quiet in city on Lockdown Day 2; BMC yet to work out veggie supply||Bhopal: Sunday, the second day of the 10-day lockdown in Bhopal, was quieter than the first day. It was also the third Sunday lockdown of the month, which had found overwhelming response from the people on previous two Sundays, and July 26 was no different.On Saturday, the first day of the lockdown, there was some traffic on the road between 10 am and 11 am and later in the evening from 5 pm to 7 pm as people, who went to office, were on the road during the period. But Sunday.was a holiday for all and only those who really had some urgent work came out of their houses. However, the district administration's assurance that the BMC would ensure regular supply.of vegetables in residential areas doesn't seem to have moved the civic administration into action. No vegetable vans with the BMC banner was seen during the previous lockdown in the city.When asked about provisions for vegetable supply, district admimistration spokesperson, Arun Rathore, said that attempt was being made to revive the old system in which vendors authorised by the BMC used to sell vegetables in different locations. He also said that temporary markets on the outskirts of the city will be back in business till the lockdown. SDM, Huzur, and SDM, Kolar, have been given the responsibility to make arrangements for the vegetable markets. The grocery bag, which the food safety department provided to the Sanchi Milk Parlours for sale during the previous round of the lockdown when grocery shops were closed as now, is not available either. However, some milk parlours have stock of grocery on their own for sale. People, at least for now, are not complaining about closure of grocery/vegetable shops, since the lockdown was not abrupt and they had a couple of days to stock up essentials. In fact, some of the people TOI talked to, were happy that grocery/vegetable shops were closed.“There was crowd on the streets after the initial days of lockdown-1 essentially because vegetable/fruit vendors and grocery shops were allowed to operate. As of now, people have enough of grocery and vegetables. May be after a couple of days, people will start looking out for vegetables. I hope by then BMC will have a system in place to cater to them,” said Dinesh Saxena, a resident of Trilanga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/editedall-quiet-in-city-on-lockdown-day-2-bmc-yet-to-work-out-veggie-supply/articleshow/77187881.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Nagpur||District crosses 4k Covid cases, last 1k in just 6 days||Nagpur: The number of Covid-19 positive cases in the district crossed 4,000 on Sunday with the latest 1,000 cases in just six days. Another alarming figure is that the mortality rate of the district went above 2% for the first time in this pandemic. The district recorded 225 novel coronavirus patients on Sunday, the highest single-day figure since the first case on March 11. The district’s tally increased to 4,062. The last highest was 222 on July 24. It took 96 days for the first 1,000 positive cases followed by 25 days for 2nd 1,000 cases. In July, the number of cases increased manifold. Third 1,000 cases came in 12 days and now 4th 1,035 in just six days. Compared to other districts in the state, the situation of pandemic in Nagpur district is better. The district stands at fifth place among 35 in the state as far as population is concerned. In number of Covid-19 positive cases, the district is still on 10th position but first among 11 districts in Vidarbha. In latest 1,000 cases, the district witnessed only one major hotspot — Kamptee. The number of cases in Kamptee was 42 on July 12. There were 151 cases on June 20 when the district crossed 3,000 cases. On Sunday, the number of cases in this town was 312, making it the third hotspot after Mominpura-Timki (425) and Naik-Talao Bangladesh (415). Cases were registered from various parts of the city as well as Nagpur Rural too. The positivity rate of the district also increased to 6.39% as total number of samples tested was 63,563. The positivity rate was low at 5.44% when the district registered first 1,000 cases and increased to 7.31% in 2nd 1,000 and reduced to 6.11% in 3rd 1,000 cases. The district’s positivity rate is very less compared to state’s overall positivity rate, which was 20.18% on Sunday. Another major worry for the district is surge in Covid-19 deaths. On Sunday, the district registered 7 deaths, highest in a single day. The total number of deaths increased to 83 for a mortality rate of 2.04%. It is for the first time the district’s mortality rate has gone above 2%. Still, the situation in the district is better compared to mortality rate of state (3.65%), country (2.31%) and the world (4.08%). The cases are likely to increase further with easing of lockdown and increase in testing with the administration roping in rapid antigen test kits. The steep rise in cases indicates spread of Covid-19. Already, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) had warned of 15-day full lockdown with curfew if violation of Covid-19 guidelines continued. The district administration had said there would be no such step and existing relaxations will continue. Unfortunately, the district has started to witness paucity of beds and medical staff for positive patients. Span Of Each 1,000 June 14----1,002 (96 days) July 9--------2,085 (25 days) July 20-------3,027 (12 days) July 26-------4,062 (6 days) --------------------------------------------- Latest 1,035 In Six Days July 20---68---------3,027 July 21—144-------3,171 July 22—122-------3,293 July 23—172-------3,465 July 24—222------3,687 July 25---150------3,837 July 26---225------4,062||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/district-crosses-4k-covid-cases-last-1k-in-just-6-days/articleshow/77187885.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 27, 2020||Trichy||Farmers deploy laser leveller to save money and water||Trichy: A farmer producer group (FPG) in Trichy has purchased a laser leveller which helps cut labour costs to prepare the field by one-third and reduces the water needed for irrigating it by 30%.According to agriculture department officials, the equipment levels the field using a dual-slope laser that automatically controls the blade to precisely grade the surface to eliminate all undulations tending to hold water. Precise level and smoother soil surface facilitate less water consumption in land preparation. It helps maintain uniform moisture environment for crops making it conducive for germination and growth of the crop. This will also help control weeds in the field, they said. Despite its numerous benefits, farmers have not been using the leveller and instead going for manual labour spending more money. It was in this backdrop that the farmers production group from Vazhavanthankottai came forward to purchase the leveller, said A Panneerselvem, a farmer and president of the group.“If we use laser leveller, one acre of land can be levelled in an hour and it costs only Rs 1,200. If farmers engage labourers, they would need to engage 10 of them paying Rs 400 each. They would also take half a day to complete the work. There are 100 farmers in our group and all of them have been utilizing the leveller effectively”, Panneerselvam added.The equipment was bought from a Coimbatore-based company for Rs 4.2 lakh with the subsidy provided to the group. A member of the group, Sakthivel, said machine planting was the best option as the cost of transplantation using labourers was exceedingly high. However, in order to go for machine planting, field levelling was very important.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-deploy-laser-leveller-to-save-money-and-water/articleshow/77188185.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
July 27, 2020||Dehradun||Proposed Pancheshwar Dam along Indo-Nepal border will put flora & fauna at risk: Report||Pithoragarh: The recently-released State of Environment Report compiled by the Uttarakhand Pollution Control Board in collaboration with GB Pant Agriculture and Technical University has claimed that the proposed Pancheshwar Dam along the Indo-Nepal border will put more than 300 species of flora and fauna in danger. The report points out that the dam will have an adverse impact on around 43 mammals and 193 varieties of flora along with 30 species of fish and 70 species of birds found in the region. Several environmentalists have also said that the proposed dam would be an ecological disaster for the area. India and Nepal had jointly proposed a multi-purpose project on Kali river at Pancheshwar in Champawat district and the project has been in works for a long time now. According to this project, construction of a 315-metre-high dam is proposed which will likely help in the production of 6,720 megawatt of electricity and also provide water for irrigation in Uttar Pradesh. The report also says that 87 villages of Almora, Champawat, and Pithoragarh will submerge in the lake if the dam is built. “The level of oxygen is already so low in the lakes of the region that it threatens the existence of many aquatic and amphibious animals. The dam will hinder the natural flow of the Kali river. The government did not conduct any study on the environmental effect during construction of the Tehri Dam and a similar negligence can be seen with the Pancheshwar Dam project as well,” said Bimal Bhai, environmentalist and convenor of social organisation “Matu”. “The villages that will be submerged due to the dam have fertile land and rich biodiversity. The government should assess the environmental impact of the dam on the region,” said Pradeep Tamta, Rajya Sabha MP from Uttarakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/proposed-pancheshwar-dam-along-indo-nepal-border-will-put-flora-fauna-at-risk-report/articleshow/77186334.cms||Prem Punetha
July 27, 2020||Gurgaon||100-bed Covid centre may be set up in Sohna||GURUGRAM: Sohna is likely to get a dedicated care centre for the isolation and treatment of Covid-19 patients. As the area has witnessed the highest caseload in Gurugram in the last one month, the health department has proposed to develop a 100-bed Covid care centre here. The block already has an isolation centre for Covid patients. Sohna was declared a large outbreak region after 198 cases surfaced in the area in the past month. “We have sought a site for setting up a Covid care centre in Sohna. A proposal has been sent to the district administration. We are conducting contact tracing in the area and we will increase testing if needed,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram. The idea is to prevent the transfer of patients from Sohna to other places in the district for treatment to contain the spread of the virus. Gurugram has a total of 23 public health units, of which Sohna is contributing the highest number of Covid-19 cases at present. According to health department data, Sohna saw a spike of cases in the first week of July. Though the positivity rate has come down to 8.6% now from 11.2% in July 11, the area is still under surveillance. A total of 2,301 tests were conducted in Sohna between June 26 and July 21, out of which 198 people tested positive. Increasing the number of rapid antigen tests, isolating symptomatic people quickly and sealing Sohna as a large outbreak region have helped lower its positivity rate, health officials said. Sohna was sealed on July 13. Till July 9, Sohna’s positivity rate was 10.83%. Two days later, it rose to 11.2%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/100-bed-covid-centre-may-be-set-up-in-sohna/articleshow/77188191.cms||Ipsita Pati
July 27, 2020||Goa||KA theatre college in talks to shift to old PWD building||PANAJI: The old PWD office near Rua de Ourem, Panaji, may soon become the new premises for the Kala Academy’s (KA) Goa College of Theatre Arts. Chairman of KA, Govind Gaude along with the college management, is in talks with the state government to grant them the heritage building to be utilised as the college campus. “We intend to have all of the classes there as an alternate arrangement since the Kala Academy building sometimes has problems. However, we cannot make any changes to the building since the matter is in the court. To tackle this, we have decided to move to another building in Panaji,” minister for art and culture, Govind Gaude said. Last year TOI had published a series of reports on the state government’s plans to demolish the iconic open-air auditorium of the Kala Academy, built by Charles Correa. The high court of Goa at Bombay then took suo moto cognizance of news reports and the matter is now in court. Officials from the institute said that the college requires 30 to 40-seater classrooms, a stage and large spaces for drama and practical lessons. However, conducting classes in the campus faces several distractions with the Kala Academy constantly engaged for shows and events like the International film festival of India (Iffi) taking up space. “The art gallery leaks and part of the DMK auditorium floods every monsoon. Such obstacles prove to be a problem to use the spaces to conduct classes,” officials said. The PWD building which is perched on the Rua de Ourem creek between the old and new Patto bridges is being used as one of the multiple venues of the annual Serendipity Arts Festival. For ten days, this space is used to showcase art and culture with visual arts projects indoors and classical performances but is un-utilised for the rest of the year. “The theatre arts college must get priority over the festival. We require the infrastructure,” Gaude said. The state government has handed the old PWD premises to Smart City Panaji officials who in turn have handed it to the Serendipity organisers as one of the festival venues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ka-theatre-college-in-talks-to-shift-to-old-pwd-building/articleshow/77187932.cms||Nida Sayed
July 27, 2020||Dehradun||Elephant carcass found in Rajaji Tiger Reserve, officials claim accidental death||Dehradun: The patrolling staff of Rajaji Tiger Reserve (RTR) found the decayed carcass of a female elephant (about 25-30 years old) in the Haridwar range. The officials are claiming that the elephant died as it slipped while probably trying to break the branches of trees for eating. A proper postmortem of the body could not be done to ascertain the exact cause of the death as the carcass was almost two weeks old, according to the newly-appointed RTR director DK Singh. “The spot survey indicates that the elephant slipped, broke its neck, and died. The intensive postmortem of the animal could not be done as its carcass had decayed,” said Singh. The official, however, evicted any possibility of poaching as the site had broken twigs and crushed grass indicating an accidental death of the tusker. When asked about the delay in finding out the carcass by the staff, Singh said, “Almost ten days ago, our staff had patrolled the area and upon revisiting it on Friday, they came across a pungent smell there and found the carcass,” added Singh. On the other hand, one of the rogue elephants of RTR had been crossing the broken fencing of RTR and entering into a residential area causing a ruckus, especially among the residents of nearby Bilkeshwar Colony. On Sunday, it broke down a school wall and turned two parked two-wheelers turtle. The movement of the jumbo in Bilkeshwar has been going on for the past two weeks. “There are plans to erect a boundary. Also, our staff has already removed the elephant from that location. It has not caused any harm to humans as such.” added Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/elephant-carcass-found-in-rajaji-tiger-reserve-officials-claim-accidental-death/articleshow/77186342.cms||Shivani Azad
July 27, 2020||Delhi||ECA route for DU aspirants opens from August 1||NEW DELHI: Students can apply for admission under the extra-curricular activity (ECA) quota at Delhi University between August 1 and 31. There are 14 categories of activities. The applicants will have to upload five certificates and marks will be awarded on the basis of the best three ones. Till last year, they had to upload only three certificates as the admission also involved trials. The certificates have to be of preceding three years (between May 1, 2017 and April 30, 2020). Undated certificates will not be accepted. While the registration deadline for merit-based admissions has been extended till August 31, for the entrance-based courses, the registration process ends on July 31 itself. “Applicants who have already registered and now wish to apply under the ECA category can do so after paying the requisite additional fee of Rs 100. Applicants may register for a maximum of three categories. Those scoring 20 marks and above in uploaded certificates shall be eligible for the final merit list of admission on the basis of ECA. The marks will be awarded based on sum of the total marks awarded in the three best certificates uploaded by the candidate,” stated a circular issued by the university on Sunday. For students who want to edit and update documents, the university will be providing an edit option between the third week of August and the second week of September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/eca-route-for-du-aspirants-opens-from-aug-1/articleshow/77187898.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Betul judge, son die of food poisoning; cops probe case||BHOPAL: An additional district and session’s judge and his 25-year-old son died of food poisoning in Betul district. They were admitted to a hospital on July 22 after food poisoning and their condition deteriorated on July 25 after which both were rushed to Nagpur on Saturday night. The judge’s son died on the way to Nagpur while judge died during treatment late hours. The deceased have been identified as additional district and sessions judge Mahendra Kumar Tripathi and his son Ahbiyanraj alias Monu. The deceased judge used to live at his residence in Kalapatha locality of the town with this two sons and wife, said sources. In the night of July 21, both the father and son complained of nausea and vomiting. Family sources said both had consumed chapatti while others had rice in the night of July 21. Subsequently both were admitted at Padhar hospital on July 23, but their condition deteriorated by the evening of July 25 and they were referred to Nagpur. The son died while he was on his way and the judge died during treatment in the night, sources said SP Betul Simala Prasad. “They were referred to Nagpur by the doctors. Prima facie as per the doctors they died of food poisoning, but detailed investigations are on.” Autopsy of both the deceased was done at Nagpur and reports are awaited, said police sources. Once the post-mortem reports are received, things will be clear said sources in the police. It is suspected that there was some issue with the wheat flour whose chapattis were consumed by both the deceased, leading to food poisoning, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/betul-judge-son-die-of-food-poisoning-cops-probe-case/articleshow/77187886.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Surat||Check Covid beds online for Surat patients||Surat: In a major development to help people get information about availability of beds in private as well as government hospitals, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has uploaded details online on its Covid-19 dashboard on SMC’s website. After multiple complaints of not getting hospital beds in the city with spike in cases, SMC Commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani had assured that such details would soon made available on its dashboard. “Details about vacant beds, with Oxygen, with ICU, ICU beds with ventilators, and those with oxygen are now just a click away on SMC’s website. People can check Covid-19 Dashboard where these data in details have been made available under ‘Covid-19 bed availability’ category,” said an SMC officer. As on Sunday, 1,945 beds out of total 4,872 are vacant. The total beds in city include New Civil Hospital (984), SMIMER (821), All private Hospital (SMC quata-740), All private hospitals (114), Community Isolation Centres (887) and Samras Covid-19 Care Centre (326) in Surat city. Meanwhile, Surat rural reported 98 fresh Covid-19 cases and five deaths on Sunday. BOX Regular patients asked to go to Maskati Hospital Surat: As SMC-run SMIMER hospital has been declared as ‘Covid-19 hospital, all non-Covid-19 patients have been advised to go to Maskati Hospital for treatment. “SMIMER hospital, however, will attend to paediatric, gynaec, TB, chest and emergency patients. All other routine OPD work will be shut from Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/check-covid-beds-online-for-surat-patients/articleshow/77186329.cms||---
July 27, 2020||India||Haryana to probe assets of Nehru-Gandhi family||CHANDIGARH: After the enforcement directorate widened its probe into the assets of trusts linked to the Nehru-Gandhi family earlier this month, the Haryana government has written to the urban local bodies department to investigate such details with immediate effect. The recent orders from chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora to the additional chief secretaries are consequent to the communication from the Union government regarding probe into foreign contributions received by the Rajiv Gandhi Charitable Trust. Two other trusts named are Rajiv Gandhi Foundation and Indira Gandhi Memorial Trust. The trusts linked to the Nehru-Gandhi family had acquired assets in Haryana between 2004 and 2014, when Bhupinder Singh Hooda-led government was in power. The scrutiny is on allotment of an institutional plot in Gurugram for setting up an hospital, alleged re-allotment of an institutional plot in the name of Associated Journals Limited and certain sale deeds involving Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s son-in-law Robert Vadra. Watch Haryana government to probe assets of Nehru-Gandhi family||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/haryana-to-probe-assets-of-nehru-gandhi-family/articleshow/77188495.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Kolkata||Inspired by Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Amala Shankar didn’t want shraddh rituals||KOLKATA: No shraddh rituals will be held on Monday for dancer Amala Shankar, who passed away in Kolkata on July 24 at the age of 101. This decision was motivated not by the pandemic, but inspired by Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. The Padma Bhushan recipient never really believed in rituals like shraddh. Respecting that, a very private get-together will be organized on Monday evening at her daughter Mamata Shankar’s Rajdanga residence. With no priest, ritual or formal gathering, it will just be a simple occasion for remembering the icon, her legacy and contribution to dance pedagogy. Her grandson Ratul Shankar said, “Dida used to talk about a conversation she once had with Netaji. She was inspired by how Netaji had said that after independence, ceremonies like shraddh and annaprasan should be banned. In case of a shraddh, the person is absent. Dida felt that the entire exercise didn’t always do justice to the relationship shared with those engaging in the rituals and the deceased. In case of an annaprasan, she said the baby is too small to understand or remember anything. Keeping that in mind, we are not holding any rituals,” he said. Had there not been a pandemic now, the plans would still have remained the same. “We would not have gone for an elaborate ceremony of treating guests after a memorial service. When we had the annaprasan of my nephew, it was also a very private affair with just the family being present. That, too, was done adhering to Dida’s beliefs,” he added. “We also have the responsibility to abide by the norms of social distancing. People can pay their tributes from their homes. We are all disciples of Sai Baba. On Monday evening, perhaps there will be bhajan recitals by family members,” he said, insisting how her life needed to be “celebrated”. The family recalled how she had an eidetic memory even in the final years of her life. “If she mentioned a particular size of a screen used for a production, the figure would never change in subsequent references. A fantastic cook, she would insist that vegetables be chopped keeping their cooking time in mind. Once ma and I were entering her flat in Mandeville Gardens, when we noticed that the domestic help had kept some pieces of paper at the corner of the door after having dusted the floor. Checking the papers, we found among them a letter sent to her and Dadu (Uday Shankar) by Mahatma Gandhi wishing them on their wedding. Thankfully, we noticed it and saved it. It was incredible to hear Dida casually share her encounters with luminaries. Every interaction with her was a rewarding experience,” he said. The phones haven’t stopped ringing at the Shankar residence since Friday. People have been calling to share their memories of her and also mentioned having old videos and photographs of her. “We have been asking them to send over copies of such items,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/inspired-by-netaji-amala-didnt-want-shraddh-rituals/articleshow/77187900.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
July 27, 2020||Dehradun||Kargil victory day: CM pays homage to martyrs, wreath laying events held||Nainital: A number of ceremonies were held across the state to mark the 21st anniversary of the Kargil War victory on Sunday. Even though the events were muted and the crowd wasn’t allowed to gather at any venue, state residents paid homage to the soldiers who died in the battle against Pakistan. On the day, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat paid his respect to the war martyrs in the state capital. Speaking during the event at Dehradun’s Gandhi Park, CM Rawat said that the soldiers from Uttarakhand have a proud history of serving the country. “Dozens of soldiers sacrificed their lives to protect the country in the Kargil War. Our soldiers were fighting the enemy in a difficult terrain and equally challenging climate. Each and every person of the state salutes the valour shown by our soldiers on the battlefield,” the CM said. Former Army officers and jawans, district officials as well as senior police officials also attended the ceremonies held in several cities and towns. More than 500 soldiers lost their lives in the Kargil War. Of these, at least 75 were from Uttarakhand. Thirty-seven soldiers of the state were awarded the gallantry medals as well. Meanwhile, in Nainital, a wreath laying ceremony was held in the Shaheed Park at Haldwani. The ceremony was attended by the officials of the Sashastra Seema Bal, police officials, and former Army officers. Speaking at the event, Nainital SSP Sunil Kumar Meena said, “Soldiers from Uttarakhand have earned a name for themselves in various wars and in the Kargil battle too, the soldiers captured the strategically important locations even though the enemies were sitting at heights.” Families of the soldiers also remembered their sons who fought and died in the battle. Gomti Devi, mother of martyr Surendra Singh (22), said she still visits the memorial built for him in Premnagar daily. “I am proud that my son died for the country. For the last 20 years, I have been visiting the memorial and the temple built in his name near our house but I wish my son was alive to see the country’s victory in Kargil,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kargil-victory-day-cm-pays-homage-to-martyrs-wreath-laying-events-held/articleshow/77186366.cms||Prashant Jha
July 27, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 cases cross 6k-mark in U'khand after 143 new infections||Dehradun: With 143 fresh cases reported from the state on Sunday, Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 tally reached 6,104. Also, 26 more inmates of Suddhowala district jail tested positive for the virus taking the tally of infected jail inmates in Dehradun to 33. A day ago, seven inmates of the jail were found Covid-19 positive. Dr Rajeev Dixit, district surveillance officer, confirmed that more than 100 inmates were tested for the virus on Sunday. “We have moved all the 33 Covid-19 positive jail inmates to Doon Hospital where special security arrangements were made to ensure the safety of these inmates,” said Dr Dixit, who added that a total of 46 fresh cases of the virus were reported in Dehradun on Sunday. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, informed that Udham Singh Nagar reported the maximum of 51 new cases, followed by 26 cases from Haridwar. “On the day, six new cases were reported from Uttarkashi, five from Nainital, and three each from Almora, and Pauri districts. Chamoli, Rudraprayag, and Tehri districts also reported one case each on Sunday,” added Tripathi. Notably, more than 1,600 cases have been reported in the state in the last one week, the highest weekly figure so far. Also, 90% of the active cases are currently in the plains. Among the total 2,437 active cases, 2,170 are from plain districts like Haridwar, Dehradun, Haldwani, and Udham Singh Nagar. The remaining nine hill districts barely have 267 cases, which is around 10% of the active cases. Also, 50% of the active cases are contacts of previously tested patients. Anoop Nautiyal Social Development for Communities Foundation, an organisation closely tracking the Covid-19 scenario in the Himalayan state, said that while the maximum cases of Covid-19 were reported in the last one week (which is the 19th week of the outbreak of the infection in the state), the number of testing and recoveries were also maximum during this period. INSET: A 62-year-old man from Haridwar died of dengue at city-based Max Hospital on Sunday. The patient was brought to the hospital on July 21 and breathed his last on July 26 evening, informed Dr Rahul Prasad from Max Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-cases-cross-6k-mark-in-ukhand-after-143-new-infections/articleshow/77186361.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 27, 2020||Kolkata||Organizers decide against livestock markets for Bakri Eid in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Many of the livestock markets that come up across the city before the festival of Bakri Eid will be conspicuous by their absence this year, the organizers have informed the police. They took the decision keeping in mind how rapidly the novel coronavirus was spreading. The huge markets attract thousands of people each day. They flock to purchase livestock for sacrifice on Bakri Eid. The organizers of these markets fear setting up the bazaars amid the pandemic may further aggravate the situation. “This year, we have decided to make a different kind of sacrifice by not setting up market, which has been around for decades and is one of the biggest in the city. We took the decision to help the state government control the pandemic,” said Mohammad Ali, secretary of Jamiatul Quresh, which has been facilitating the setting up of the livestock market in Narkeldanga. Bakri Eid is the second Islamic festival of the year, which follows Id-ul-Fitr that marks the end of Ramzan, the holy month of fasting. This year, Bakri Eid will be observed on August 1. In May, Muslims in the state had prayed at home on Id-ul-Fitr as a precaution against Covid-19. In Zakaria Street in central Kolkata the market for goats and sheep has not been set up this year. For over 10 days thousands of buyers and sellers of goat and sheep visit the temporary market everyday. “We are at a very crucial stage in our fight against the pandemic with the state government going in or staggered lockdowns to decrease the cases and the load on our resources. Every one of us should display sense of responsibility and stay away from anything which can pose risk to others,” said Nasir Khan, a resident of central Kolkata. Several people within the Muslim community have decided not to celebrate the festival both for economic as well as precautionary reasons. The almost 10-week long lockdown and the fear of the transmission of the virus has dealt a huge blow to businesses with many families struggling to meet household and health expenses. Others are apprehensive about letting people into their homes. “Our family has decided not to offer any sacrifice this year breaking away from a decades old tradition within the family. The business has taken a very bad hit and there is no hope of revival till there is a vaccine for Covid-19. Moreover, sacrifice is a community affair where several people visit each other but it may lead to the spread of the virus. I have elderly parents who I want to safeguard,” said Mohammad Irfan who stays in Beck Bagan and runs an apparel shop in a city mall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/organizers-decide-against-livestock-mkts-for-bakri-eid/articleshow/77187902.cms||Zeeshan Javed
July 27, 2020||Bhopal||Recite Hanuman Chalisa 5-times till Aug 5 to get rid of Covid: Pragya||Bhopal: BJP Lok Sabha member from Bhopal, Pragya Singh Thakur has appealed to the people to recite `Hanuman Chalisa' (a hymn in praise of Lord Hanuman) five times a day till August 5, which she believes will rid the world of the coronavirus pandemic. The `bhoomi pujan' or the foundation laying ceremony for the construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya is to take place on August 5 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Congress said Pragya should help the poor during Covid crisis instead of taking political benefit of the Ram Temple issue."Let all of us together make a spiritual effort to wish people good health and end the coronavirus epidemic. Recite 'Hanuman Chalisa' five times a day at your home from July 25 to August 5. Conclude this ritual by lighting lamps on August 5 and offering ‘aarti’ to Lord Ram at home. We will be free from coronavirus," tweeted Thakur. The BJP leader also posted a video on the social media site in which she said the BJP government in Madhya Pradesh is making efforts to contain the spread of coronavirus by imposing lockdown in Bhopal till August 4.“Though the lockdown will be over on August 4, this ritual (recitation of the Hanuman Chalisa) will end on August 5, when ‘bhoomi pujan’ for Ram temple in Ayodhya will be performed. We will celebrate that day like Diwali,” she said, adding, "When Hindus from across the country recite the ‘Hanuman Chalisa’ in one voice, it will definitely work and we will be free from coronavirus. This is your prayer to Lord Ram."As the world awaits a cure for Covid-19 and people seek respite from the ten-day lockdown, Thakur's idea has sparked verbal spat between the Congress and the ruling BJP. Former Congress minister PC Sharma said that after remaining absent from the scene for the last four months, Pragya Singh Thakur is trying to take political benefit of the situation."Where was the so-called Sadhvi for the last four months when people were in distress and seeking relief. Instead of preaching to people about Hanuman Chalisa, as we all recite the same everyday, Pragya should help the poor get 35 kg of ration during the Covid-19 crisis," Sharma reacted sharply.Earlier last week, Madhya Pradesh assembly pro tem Speaker Rameshwar Sharma had claimed that building the Ram temple will get rid of the contagion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/recite-hanuman-chalisa-5-times-till-aug-5-to-get-rid-of-covid-pragya/articleshow/77187892.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Dehradun||Bhim Army state president, other members booked in Laksar||Roorkee: The state president of Bhim Army and more than three dozen of his followers were booked by the local police in Laksar for staging a dharna without complying to the social distancing norms on July 22. However, officials of the party allege that the state government is taking action against them as it is “anti-Dalit” and is trying to suppress the voice of the community. According to reports, a large number of Bhim Army members led by state president Mahak Singh had staged a dharna at tehsil premises in Laksar on July 22 to demand the arrest of an accused who had allegedly thrashed a Dalit man from Pitpura village of Laksar. “They (protester) did not take any permission to stage the protest and were disobeying the mandatory social distancing rule. We first commissioned an inquiry over their conduct and then registered a case against them,” said Rajan Singh, circle officer of Laksar. Police have registered a case against them under section 144 (unlawful assembly) of the Indian Penal Code and 51-B of the Disaster Management Act. Meanwhile, Mahak Singh has said that police are working on the commands of the BJP leaders. “The BJP is an anti-Dalit party and is not leaving any chance to harras our men,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bhim-army-state-president-other-members-booked-in-laksar/articleshow/77186367.cms||Tapan Susheel
July 27, 2020||Trichy||Remembering martyred men on Kargil Vijay Diwas||TRICHY: On the 21st Kargil Vijay Diwas celebrated on July 26 across the country to mark India's victory over Pakistan in 1999, personnel from the Armed forces and public paid their homage at Major Saravanan memorial in Cantonment in Trichy. Major Saravanan from Trichy was among the first casualties of the Kargil battle. The 117 Infantry battalion (Territorial Army) The Guards, Trichy, organized the ceremony. Colonel Elavarasan, commander, NCC group, Trichy attended the ceremony on behalf of Captain Rana of 117 Infantry Battalion (TA) The Guards. Commander Anoop Thomas of Naval Armament Inspectorate, HAPP Trichy also attended and did the honours. After the officers from the armed forces did the honours, family members of Major Saravanan and general public too paid respect to the martyr. Wing Commander C Gunasekaran, commanding Officer 3 TN Air Squadron NCC recalled ancient Tamil literature to give evidence on how women motivated their children to become soldiers. He said Major Saravanan’s father was in Army and he also followed his footsteps. He said more youths from the south must join the armed forces, which offer an exciting career.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/kargil-diwas-observed-at-major-saravanan-memorial/articleshow/77188194.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Bareilly||Parole of 15 Pilibhit jail convicts extended by eight weeks||Pilibhit: Fifteen convicts of Pilibhit district jail out on a eight-week parole have been given an extension of another eight weeks following a directive by additional chief secretary, UP government, Avnish Kumar Awasthi.Earlier, these convicts were let out on parole in compliance with a Supreme Court order in view of the COVID-19 pandemic.Anoop Manav Shastri, district jail superintendent, said on SC orders, 13 convicts were released on parolr on April 2 and two others on April 9.Now, following the fresh orders of the state government, their parole period has been extended, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/parole-of-15-pilibhit-jail-convicts-extended-by-eight-weeks/articleshow/77184099.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Surat||Despite technical glitch 22,000 take traffic rules test||Surat: Despite technical glitches and crashing of web server, some 22,000 people including cops waited till evening to take the traffic rules test on Sunday. They appeared in several batches in the test that continued till 8pm. The online test was scheduled from 12 noon to 2pm on Sunday and a total 25,000 candidates have registered for it. However, just as test was about to begin, the website of city traffic police crashed and the candidates could not log in. Along with citizens, a number of police personnel were also seen making repeated attempts to log in, but in vain. “We had planned for one lakh candidates and we were to distribute them in multiple slots during the day to avoid pressure on the server. But due to some communication gap, 18,000 candidates were instructed to log-in in the first batch. Due to the large number, the server crashed,” said Prashant Sumbe, deputy commissioner of police, traffic. Police had planned to take the test in batches of 6,000 each. Along with the 18,000 who were sent instruction log in at same time, there were many others who tried to log in without prior registration. “Nearly one lakh hits were reported on the website,” Sumbe added. The server was restored by 1.30pm and the test started. Gradually, the number of candidates increased. Sumbe scored 59 marks out of 60 despite him being one of the paper setters. He suspects some error in counting of marks. Police are yet to calculate the overall result.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/despite-technical-glitch-22000-take-traffic-rules-test/articleshow/77186348.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Mysuru||Employee of JK Tyre plant dies; no fresh Covid-19 cases||MYSURU: The Covid-19 cluster outbreak at JK Tyre and Industries plant claimed its first fatality on Sunday, although there was some respite with no new fresh cases recorded for a third day in a row. The plant has over 6,000 employees and 204 have contracted the virus. It’s the biggest single source of Covid-19 in the district following the outbreak at the pharmaceutical company in Nanjangud, which was reported in the early days of the pandemic in the state. The management said the 54-year-old employee who died on Sunday had cardiac issues and comes within two days of another staffer committing suicide. A senior official of the company said the employee who had committed suicide had tested negative, but was in quarantine. While the workforce is rattled with the situation, an employee union office- bearer said the company is providing good medical care and other support. "For the past three days, there have been no new cases among employees or their contacts," said DK Lingaraju, joint director, District Industries Centre. Mysuru City Corporation officials visited the plant on Friday and reviewed the situation. The first positive case was reported two weeks ago and the plant immediately shut for sanitisation. "As more employees tested positive, we shut both plants 12 days ago," officials said. "We plan to reopen on Thursday." District deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said the company had shut its units on the advice of the district administration. "It is not a forced closure," he insisted. District health department officials said the company has joined hands with two private hospitals in the city to test and treat its employees. "Those who have tested positive have been kept in isolation by the company so there is no pressure on the health department," officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/employee-of-mysuru-jk-tyre-unit-dies-no-fresh-cases/articleshow/77186921.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Delhi||DU admissions: Artistes to move VP for trials||NEW DELHI: Delhi University has decided to retain the extra-curricular activity (ECA) quota after several artistes petitioned the Vice-President of India, M Venkaiah Naidu, who is also its chancellor, to intervene in the matter. However, several of them have now called it mere “tokenism” as the admissions under this quota will be carried out without any trial. Bharatnatyam dancer Geeta Chandran, who had approached Naidu, told TOI, “Without trials, there is no meaning because you can buy certificates in this country.” Pointing out that the whole education system is turning online during the Covid-19 pandemic, she added, “If you can evaluate and educate students, why cannot you conduct trials online? Certificates are a wrong way of assessing art as art is not something that is competitive. You have to see an artiste’s involvement, passion.”  Chandran said, they had suggested DU two ways to hold ECA admissions. “One suggestion was to ask for CDs from candidates to shortlist them before holding trials for competent candidates. Another one was to have online trials. But DU said it was going without trials,” she said. They are planning to bring in more artistes and approach the Vice-President again. Another dancer, Ragini Chandershekar, wrote on social media, “These certificates are such a sham and are available by the dozen, hold no value whatsoever. The trials should be the only way to seek admission on the basis of ECA and panels should have artistes.” Samyukta Ninan, a teacher, pointed out, “In schools, 14-year-old kids are taking part in online competitions, seminars, workshops, and performing for the elderly. So why can’t DU get its act together?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/artistes-to-move-vp-for-trials/articleshow/77187920.cms||Shradha Chettri
July 27, 2020||Patna||Deepak Prasad is new SEC||Patna: The state government has appointed Deepak Prasad, a 1989-batch IAS officer, as the new state election commissioner (SEC). A notification in this regard was issued by the panchayati raj Department on Sunday, three days after Prasad opted for voluntary retirement from service. Prasad was serving as cabinet secretary before he applied for voluntary retirement. The post of SEC was lying vacant after Ashok Kumar Chauhan completed his term in March this year. A proposal for appointment of a new SEC was sent to the CM’s office on Thursday. The vacant post has been filled in view of the panchayat elections scheduled to be held early next year. On July 21, a 2006-batch IAS officer, Shobhendra Kumar Choudhary, had taken VRS and was made member of the Bihar Public Service Commission the following day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/deepak-prasad-is-new-sec/articleshow/77187329.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Lucknow||Soon, AKTU profs to record lectures in mobile studio van||LUCKNOW: Teachers of Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University would no longer need to come to the varsity to record their video lectures, as a mobile studio van will reach their homes to videotape the lessons. Speaking during an online programme organised by AKTU on its Foundation Day on Sunday, BJP MP Sudhanshu Trivedi promised to gift AKTU a mobile van so that its faculty members can record their lectures without having to come to the campus. Trivedi was the special guest at the event, while Governor Anandiben Patel was the chief guest. “The mobile studio van will go directly to the teacher’s residence and record the audio-visual content, which will help them prepare the e-content. This would make the process of producing e-content during the pandemic more sustainable,” said Trivedi. He added that the van will be given to AKTU using the MP Development Fund. AKTU organised the programme online via video conferencing. As part of its Talent Incentive Scheme, the university felicitated 178 meritorious students and awarded them prize money. The video lectures prepared by AKTU faculty were also screened on MHRD educational satellite channel ‘Swayam Prabha’, which was inaugurated by Governor Anandiben Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/soon-aktu-profs-to-record-lectures-in-mobile-studio-van/articleshow/77188195.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: With 44% dip in a month, Delhi flattens death curve||NEW DELHI: From a daily average of around 91 deaths due to Covid-19 in the first half of June to about 50 in July, Delhi witnessed a sharp decline of 44% in mortality. This figure, among others, was revealed in a detailed analysis of deaths carried out by Delhi government’s health department. Last month, Delhi was staring at 5.5 lakh cases by the end of July, but the positive count seemingly plateaued and hadn’t even reached 1.5 lakh yet. The analysis revealed that from 1,089 cases between June 1 and 12 to 605 between July 1 and 12, there was an overall decline of 44% in deaths. The figure at Delhi government hospitals was 58%, where the number of deaths came down from 361 to 154 during the same period. In comparison, deaths in private hospitals reduced by 25% and central government health facilities saw a 55% reduction. The percentage of total deaths vis-a-vis total admissions also varied between hospitals. While the percentage in central government’s RML Hospital dropped from 81% in June to 58% in July, at Safdarjung Hospital it was 40% in June and 31% in July. Among Delhi government hospitals, Lok Nayak saw a drop from 28% in June to 16% in early July. At Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital, the death rate was 6% in early June and 7% in early July. Because of this, the hospital was asked to share its best practices. "Delhi flattens the death curve, Covid deaths down 44 per cent in June. Personally, this has been my most important mission from the beginning of the pandemic. We will not get complacent even now. This figure needs to come down to ZERO," said the Chief Minister in a tweet on Monday morning. Between June 1 and 12, 67% patients died within four days of admission, including 34% within 24 hours. In comparison, between July 1 and 12, 35% of patients died within four days of admission and 15% within 24 hours. To further reduce the death rate, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has directed the health department officials to focus on government hospitals with the highest death rates, or those having the highest proportion of deaths taking place in wards instead of ICUs, and recommend adoption of specific measures. Health minister Satyendar Jain said that this turnaround was possible due to the single-minded focus of the CM on initiatives that would directly help prevent deaths. “The CM has been personally monitoring the daily status of critical patients and deaths. His emphasis on timely implementation of crucial initiatives to prevent deaths has helped turn around the situation and restore public confidence in Delhi government’s hospitals,” he added. Some of the key initiatives of the ‘Delhi model’ were widespread testing, oximeters, responsive ambulance system, availability of beds and focus on adding ICU beds. From an average of 5,500 tests per day, testing was scaled up to 21,000 daily in early July with a rate of 50,000 per million, the highest in the country. Home isolation was a success story. It was made possible by distribution of oximeters for free to all such patients so that they could monitor their vitals and, in case they became serious, not lose any precious time in getting transferred to hospitals. To reduce deaths during the transfer to hospitals, Kejriwal ordered a rapid expansion of the ambulance fleet. Daily reports of the fleet and response time were monitored by him. The number of beds was also increased from around 3,700 in May-end to 15,000 in early July. Delhi Corona app was also launched. Also, from less than 500 ICU beds in early June, Delhi now has over 2,200, about 1,400 of which are vacant. Read the story in BengaliWatch COVID-19: Delhi flattens death curve with 44% dip in one month||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/with-44-dip-in-a-month-delhi-flattens-death-curve/articleshow/77187340.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 27, 2020||Bhopal||Ministers, officials go behind masks in MP||BHOPAL: After MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan tested positive for Covid-19, politicians across party lines can be spotted with ‘a face mask’ on. Chouhan is the first chief minister in the country to test positive for the virus. “I have urged my colleagues, friends and family to take precautions. We do not need to fear Covid-19. However, without protection like wearing a mask, we can infect anyone,” said BJP MLA, Omprakash Sakhlecha, who has recovered from Covid and was later home-quarantined. A senior cabinet minister, who on Monday visited a government medical college and roamed without a mask, was seen in Chirayu medical college ‘with a mask on’. A day after testing positive for Covid-19, CM Chouhan on Sunday held a review meeting via video-conferencing over the Covid-19 situation in the state. Earlier in the day, Chouhan assured citizens that he was fine and was receiving treatment from corona warriors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/ministers-officials-go-behind-masks/articleshow/77187908.cms||Jamal Ayub
July 27, 2020||Surat||Pay only through digital mode, weavers tell traders||Surat: With more than 1,400 textile traders in the city infected with Covid, powerloom weavers have made it mandatory for textile traders to use the digital platform to make payments against sale of grey or unfinished fabrics . Passing a resolution to this effect, the Federation of Gujarat Weavers’ Association (FOGWA) has stated that online payment system is the ‘new normal’ in the powerloom industry and that weavers will not visit textile markets, especially those in Ring Road, Salabatpura and Sahara Darwaja looking at the rise in number of cases. Traders will have to transfer payments directly into weavers’ accounts. Ashok Jirawala, president of FOGWA told TOI, “All weavers have been asked to provide bank details to the traders for online transfer of outstanding payments. Post lockdown, traders place orders over phone and fabrics are directly delivered to processing units for finishing. Ashish Gujarat, president of Pandesara Weavers Association told TOI, “All members of Pandesara GIDC have conveyed to the traders about making payment digitally through NEFT, IMPS etc.” However, textile traders are opposing the new online payment system stating that majority of them still use the old payment mode of cheques to make or receive payments. Champalal Bothra, secretary of Federation of Surat Textile Traders’ Association said, “Over 95% traders still pay in cheques in the markets and aren’t used to digital payment mode. While we appreciate concerns, we are ready to provide other solutions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/pay-only-through-digital-mode-weavers-tell-traders/articleshow/77186381.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Patna||Doctor, 16 others die of Covid, Patna reports 620 new cases||PATNA: A doctor from Munger was among the 17 Covid-19 patients who died in Bihar in the past 24 hours. The number of casualties due to the coronavirus was the highest in a day so far, as the toll mounted to 249 on Sunday. The deceased included Dr DN Choudhary and five residents of the state capital. The state has reported total 38,919 Covid cases and 26,308 recoveries with 12,360 active cases remaining as on Sunday. Patna also surpassed its previous single-day record and reported 620 Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 6,514 in the district. However, 3,913 patients have recovered and 37 died in the district, which has 2,564 active cases. As per the state health department, five deaths were registered in Bhagalpur, taking the toll to 25 there, and two deaths each were reported from Munger and West Champaran besides one each from Aurangabad, Buxar, Kishanganj, Nalanda, Nawada, Patna, Samastipur and Sitamarhi districts. Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) reported five deaths. However, Covid-19 report of one of the deceased is awaited, the hospital’s nodal officer (reporting cell), Dr Mukul Kumar Singh said. Three of the deceased at NMCH were from Patna. “One was a 68-year-old man from Buddha Colony. He was diabetic and was admitted on Saturday. Another was a 64-year-old man from Sadar Gali in Patna City. He died of cardiac arrest. The third one was from Nathu Pur in Patna. He was also a diabetic. One 34-year-old man from Bidupur in Vaishali died on Saturday night. His death was reported on Sunday,” he said. AIIMS-Patna reported nine deaths due to Covid-19 on Sunday. The deceased included a 49-year-old Boring Road resident and a 51-year-old from Old Jakkanpur locality, hospital’s Covid-19 incharge Dr Sanjeev Kumar said. He said both the deceased did not have any major comorbidity and they died mainly due to Covid-19. He said Dr Choudhary, 75, was a diabetic and died on Saturday night. As per the health department’s data, apart from Patna, Muzaffarpur registered 123 Covid-19 positive cases, followed by Gaya (112), Nalanda (105), Saran (102), Bhojpur (102), Jamui (93) and Bhagalpur (71). State health department secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said 1,788 Covid patients recovered in the past 24 hours and there were total 26,308 recoveries in state, which stands at 67.60%. He further said 14,199 samples had been tested in the past 24 hours and altogether 45,63,24 samples so far across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/doc-among-17-die-of-covid-19-patna-reports-620-new-cases/articleshow/77187359.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 27, 2020||Nagpur||Rapid antigen tests in Vid set to burden city med infra||Nagpur: Almost all districts in Vidarbha will be conducting rapid antigen tests in large numbers in coming week starting from Monday. While it’s good move as it will increase number of tests significantly in rural Vidarbha, health facilities in Nagpur are set to face a major burden of referred patients in next two-three weeks. In rapid antigen tests, elderly, ailing or those who have chronic illnesses, and those who have some symptoms of Covid-19 are tested on priority apart from those in close contacts of already positive patients. This is set to identify high number of Covid-19 patients as well as many others with serious non-Covid illnesses. It’s very common practice in Vidarbha to refer serious patients (both Covid and non-Covid) to Nagpur. At present, 97 Covid-19 patients referred from other districts and neighbouring states are undergoing treatment in Nagpur’s GMCH and IGGMCH. Patients from neighbouring states like Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Telangana also get referred to Nagpur as the city has emerged as a medical hub over the years. With more patients getting diagnosed through rapid antigen tests, more will be referred to Nagpur. This will obviously increase the burden on health infrastructure and workforce in Nagpur, which is already working under pressure. “Covid or non-Covid, all serious patients are referred to Nagpur from across Vidarbha and MP. In case of Covid-19 patients, those having severe co-morbid conditions and moderate-to-serious level of infections are referred to city so that their co-morbidities could be treated,” said Dr Mohd Faizal, nodal officer of Covid Hospital at GMCH. “Out of total 82 deaths in Nagpur, 20 are of those patients who were referred from other districts and states,” said Dr Sagar Pande, nodal officer of Covid Hospital in IGGMCH where 10 patients referred from other districts died during treatment, while 16 more are under treatment. Some of them are serious and in ICU. Both government hospitals in the city are bound to admit and treat Covid-19 patients irrespective of their place of residence. Moreover, being tertiary clinics, these hospitals are final treatment option to many critical non-Covid patients too. Districts like Yavatmal, Buldhana, Washim, Amravati, Gondia, and Bhandara have decided to test elderly people having ailments like fever, pneumonia, cardiovascular disease and diabetes. Yavatmal will be conducting 300 rapid tests daily. Buldhana is already conducting 200 rapid tests a day, Akola and Amravati even more. Real task is ahead... Covid as well as serious non-Covid patients are referred to Nagpur from all parts of Vidarbha and adjoining states In next two-three weeks, a large number of rapid tests will be conducted in rural Vidarbha As facilities are limited in rural areas, serious patients will be referred to Nagpur Burden will increase on Nagpur’s health care facilities and already exhausted medical workforce More ICU beds, ventilators must remain vacant to tackle projected surge in referred patients For this, CCCs for mild asymptomatic patients, and home isolation for totally asymptomatic must begin||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rapid-antigen-tests-in-vid-set-to-burden-city-med-infra/articleshow/77187937.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 27, 2020||Nagpur||NMC’s unilateral CCC move baffles dist, health admns||Nagpur: Even as collector’s office was busy making arrangements at Government Polytechnic and Government College of Engineering on Wardha Road for setting up Covid Care Centres (CCCs), the news about four quarantine centres being converted into CCCs by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) came as a surprise for officials as well other departments involved in the battle against novel coronavirus. Officials in the collectorate said they were not even aware of meeting held by the NMC to start the CCCs at existing quarantine centres. Offices of divisional commissioner, civil surgeon and even deputy director of health services (DDHS) too were not part of the meeting convened by the NMC on Saturday. Officials claimed that none from the district administration or the health department were taken into confidence and only in-charge at the four quarantine centres were called and informed about the CCC decision by the NMC. Since the beginning of outbreak, civic administration and health officials have been jointly working in the fight against Covid. The administrative staff was provided by the district administration while logistics were taken care of by the civic body. Asked about the problems at new CCCs, district collector Ravindra Thakare said those were entirely under the NMC. “Our officials have been working on arrangements at only two CCCs — Government Polytechnic and College of Engineering. Both the CCCs have not yet started,” he said. Earlier, the NMC had requested the district administration to start new CCCs at the two institutions where the latter had started work in full steam. “If NMC had to start CCCs on its own, it should have conveyed to the district administration about its plans. It would have saved a lot of hassles,” said officials. Meanwhile, health officials expressed surprise over NMC’s move to discharge over 1,000 suspects after first negative test despite the virus incubation period ranging from two to 12 days. In fact, those retained at the four new CCCs — VNIT hostels, Pachpaoli police quarters, Symbiosis and Vanamati — were found positive in the second test, they cited. Asked how the administration would monitor those discharged soon after the first test, civil surgeon Dr Devendra Paturkar refused to comment. Civic officials, however, said rapid antigen tests would be conducted at home if suspects show any symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmcs-unilateral-ccc-move-baffles-dist-health-admns/articleshow/77187923.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Bhopal||205 new Covid-19 cases in a day take Bhopal count to 5,829||BHOPAL: As many as 205 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the state capital here on Sunday. Since the pandemic began, Bhopal has reported 5,829 cases. In a shocker, six members of a family in Katara Hills were diagnosed with the infection. A staffer in the ABVP office was also diagnosed with the infection. Instances of hospital staff getting infected continued as two staff members of Chirayu Medical College tested positive. One positive case was reported from Civil Hospital (Bairagarh), AIIMS Bhopal, and one in a girls’ hostel GMC. CI Colony in Jehangirabad reported three more positives. Tehsil Office in Berasia was linked to six Covid-19 infections. In Govindpura area, eight people were hospitalised after testing positive. The impacted colonies now include Bijli Colony, Regal Town, Ultimate English Villa, Durgesh Vihar, Ayodhya Nagar and Kailash Nagar. A family reported three positive in Nishatpura. Ram Nagar colony also reported three positive cases. Two positive infection have been reported from MANIT campus, according to health department reporting. The infection spread to sector-A Shahpura, E-1 Arera Colony and Char Imli. Two positive cases have been reported from MLA Rest House too. Two members of the same family tested positive in Professor Colony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/205-new-cases-in-a-day-take-city-count-to-5829/articleshow/77187921.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Lucknow||10 mosques and dargahs near Ramjanmabhoomi echo harmony and Ayodhya’s syncretic culture||AYODHYA: The 70-acre Ramjanmabhoomi premises is hemmed in by eight mosques and two mausoleums, including one believed to have been built by Hindu hermits. These Muslim places of worship are located within 100-200m off the fortified area, where azaan and Ramayana chants seamless blend to cement the syncretic culture of Ayodhya. Unlike the Babri masjid, where namaz stopped after December 23, 1949, five-time prayers are offered at these centuries-old Islamic structures adjacent to Ramjanmabhoomi, which also includes a Shia mosque and Imambara and the Tehribazar Jogiyon ki Masjid, which as the name suggests was built by Hindu salvation seekers (jogis) more than 200 years ago. “Though these mosques are in close proximity to Ramjanmabhoomi, we never faced opposition from our Hindu brethren even at the peak of the temple movement and many of them visit our dargahs during the annual Urs. Five-time azaan and qawwali during Urs go hand in hand with chant of Ramayana verses, displaying communal harmony and peaceful coexistence for centuries,” said Syed Akhlaq Ahmad Latifi, peer of the 500-year-old mausoleum, Khanqaahe Muzaffariya. Talking to TOI, Haji Asad Ahmad, corporator of Ram Kot ward that straddles Ramjanmabhoomi, said, “It’s the greatness of Ayodhya that mosques surrounding the temple of Ram Lalla gives out a message of harmony to rest of the world. Our Barawafat procession winds its way around the periphery of Ramjanmabhoomi and our Hindu brothers also join in.” The eight mosques around the 70-acre land mandated by Supreme Court for building the temple, include Masjid Dorahi Kuan, Masjid Maali Mandir ke Bagal, Masjid Kaziyana Achchan ke Bagal, Masjid Imambara, Masjid Riyaz ke Bagal, Masjid Badar Paanjitola, Masjid Madaar Shah, Masjid Tehribazar Jogiyon ki (built by Hindus). There are two other dargahs — Khanqaahe Muzaffariya and Imambara. Chief priest of Ramjanmabhoomi, Acharya Satyendra Das, said, “Only the mosque named after Babar was disputed. Other mosques and mausoleums symbolise harmony and peaceful coexistence. Muslims offer namaz and we offer our puja. Mosques adjacent to Ramjanmabhoomi will only strengthen the bond between the two communities. Both Hindu and Muslims in Ayodhya accepted the Supreme Court verdict and we have no dispute with each other.” What better portrait can be drawn of Ayodhya than of a magnificent Ram Mandir surrounded by mosques with all offering prayers according to their belief, said Mahant Yugal Kishore Sharan Shastri, chief priest of Saryu Kunj temple adjacent to Ramjanmabhoomi. Ayodhya represents the true India, he added. Similar sentiments were echoed by Mahant Raju Das, chief priest of Hanumangarhi temple. Talking to TOI, Triloki Nath Pandey, decree holder of Ramjanmabhoomi, said, “Ayodhya must live in peace and harmony. Only the Babri mosque was disputed, we have no issues with mosques surrounding the birthplace of Lord Ram.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/8-mosques-2-dargahs-around-janmabhoomi/articleshow/77188217.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
July 27, 2020||Delhi||Disposal of bio-med waste a problem? Doctors find cure||NEW DELHI: In a unique initiative, a group of four doctors has tied up with South Delhi Municipal Corporation for free distribution of kits among suspected or Covid-positive patients under home isolation so that biomedical waste could be collected and disposed of properly. Each of the kits, bought from an authorised company, has 14 sanitised yellow bags for storing biomedical waste, zip ties, hypochlorite spray to be used before and after disposal, and a brochure specifying ways to handle such waste and other informative material. While SDMC has shared details of people and collected the kits to give them, the doctors are also distributing it themselves. “We signed an MoU with SDMC on July 22 and gave them 200 kits. We have also distributed 150 kits in the past one month. We formed an NGO, Janasa, and helped suspected cases among policemen in Southeast district after taking permission from the DCP,” said Dr Ajit Gaba, founder of Janasa. The idea to start the initiative came after the doctors received multiple queries from people about disposal of biomedical waste. Also, one of the doctors faced a similar challenge after she tested Covid-positive and couldn’t get any help from the authorities, forcing her to keep the waste at home for 14 days. Dr Amodita Ahuja, one of the members, said, “While monitoring of patients is regularly done by government agencies, collection, disinfection and disposal of biomedical waste generated by them (body secretions, gloves, masks, etc) takes time. As a result, this hazardous waste is disposed of in regular garbage bags. This poses a threat to waste collectors who might get infected with the virus.” Ahuja and her colleague, Dr Tanvi Gaba, who work with the same private hospital in Malviya Nagar, took the guidance of Dr Ajit Gaba, collected funds and bought kits from a company supplying them to healthcare facilities in the city. “We began with approaching our contacts in Dwarka, Rohini, Pitampura, Sheikh Sarai and Chirag Dilli and helped at least 150 people under home isolation,” said Tanvi, a resident of Sheikh Sarai-I. SDMC south zone chairperson and councillor from Malviya Nagar Dr Nandini Sharma said that the doctors had approached her 15 days ago. “To begin with, we decided to take their assistance in south zone. The kits are being distributed through malaria department staff going for sanitising houses of Covid-19 patients. We are also making videos for circulation among the public,” she added. “Though our concessionaire is collecting bio-med waste from such houses separately as per norms, they don’t have yellow bags all the time,” said Sharma. Tanvi and Ahuja also got support from Dr Vimarsh Raina, a pathologist residing in Greater Kailash-II. The group is promoting the concept on social media and requesting people to contribute to the cause.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/disposal-of-bio-med-waste-a-problem-docs-find-cure/articleshow/77187354.cms||Vibha Sharma
July 27, 2020||Goa||Govt refuses to discuss Covid, oppn says will disrupt House||Panaji: The one-day monsoon session of the state assembly on Monday—curtailed from the three-week session planned earlier—is expected to be stormy as the government has said the session is for passing the budget, while the combined opposition has said the pandemic is the top priority and have even threatened to move an adjournment motion if it is not taken up by the House. “If the government doesn’t agree to a discussion on the Covid situation, we will not allow the House to function. It is the only issue which needs to be discussed on topmost priority,” Goa Forward Party president and Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai said. He said it was meaningless to pass the full budget, as it should be reset due to Covid-19, and the government should take another vote on account. The budget was presented in February and the government had taken a vote on account for four months. “From the agenda we have received, the government doesn’t consider Covid situation as important to discuss in the assembly. Everyone knows that Covid crisis is a matter of urgent importance and has to be discussed in the House as so far 35 persons have lost their lives,” Sardesai said. Leader of the opposition Digambar Kamat said with 35 deaths, including that of a 14-year-old, the government’s top priority should have been discussion on Covid-19. “We have demanded it. All other matters, including passing the full budget, are secondary,” he said. Sardesai said Congress and GFP have coordinated and put up questions, on issues such as the financial situation, ‘labour gate’ scam, proposal to cut thousands of trees in the Mollem wildlife sanctuary, hardships faced by non-resident Goans and seafarers while returning to the state due to the Covid-19 situation and status of forests. On Monday, the government will answer a total of 187 questions. Besides, the government also aims to introduce and pass 11 bills that were earlier issued in the form of ordinances. Sources said the government will not introduce any major bill during the session. On June 22, it was announced that the monsoon session would be of three weeks which five days later was reduced to two weeks. At the all-party meeting earlier this month, the government decided to hold only one-day session in view of the prevailing Covid situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-refuses-to-discuss-covid-oppn-says-will-disrupt-house/articleshow/77187935.cms||Murari Shetye
July 27, 2020||Delhi||Satyender Jain urges Centre to relax norms for sealed zones||NEW DELHI: A serological survey conducted in the capital earlier this month revealed that nearly every fourth Delhiite has developed antibodies against the novel coronavirus. Delhi health minister Satyender Jain believes that the number might go up to 35-40% in the survey to be carried out next month and with Covid-19 now largely been contained in Delhi, the central government should relax its policy for containment zones. At present, the capital has 714 containment zones. Talking to the media on Saturday, Jain said that containment zones should now be de-contained after 15 days instead of 28 days currently. It is about time that the containment zone policy is reviewed, keeping in mind the different conditions in different areas, he added. He said that a review of the present policy is needed so that people don’t face unnecessary hassles. While the spread of Covid-19 seems to have plateaued in Delhi, the number of cases in other parts of the country is on the rise. In Delhi, the number of containment zones has been rising because many of the zones have been re-demarcated into smaller zones for better management. According to the present guidelines, a containment zone can only be de-contained if no resident of the zone is found Covid-19 positive for 28 days. At many locations in Delhi, such as Jahangirpuri and GTB Enclave, there are areas that have remained containment zones for three months at a stretch. District officials say that people get restless after being restricted in the zone for a long time. “Though most of the people comply with the norms, some turn hostile. Many say their offices have reopened and they will lose their jobs if they are not allowed to get out of the zone,” a district official said. “This is why many containment zones have been re-demarcated. Big areas have been divided into smaller blocks. This results in movement of fewer people getting restricted and also, fewer issues of people breaking rules,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jain-urges-centre-to-relax-norms-for-sealed-zones/articleshow/77187362.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 27, 2020||Nagpur||Gadchiroli’s 1st 100 cases in 49 days, next 400 in just 20 days||Nagpur: The Maoist-affected Gadchiroli district is in the throes of a pandemic outbreak with more than 400 Covid cases reported in 20 days. After crossing 100-mark in 49 days, since the first case was reported on May 17, the alarming spike in the tribal district came with security forces arriving here earlier this month. Till now 365 security personnel have so far tested positive in the district, the highest number in the state. The only relief was that almost all of them, barring three local cops, were quarantined after reaching here from other districts and states. On July 5, 23 jawans of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) tested positive after reaching the district at the end of their leave. The number of positives has kept rising in CRPF, with it now standing at 88. The security personnel of State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) and CRPF were brought to the district as part of routine process of relieving deployed staff, and also to thwart Maoist violence during the forthcoming ‘Naxal saptah’ or martyrs’ week between July 28 and August 3. The forces have turned into a major headache after arriving in the district from different hotspots in the country. Around 274 SRPF jawans have tested positive so far in the district. District collector Deepak Singla said instructions have been issued to the police department to ensure jawans are tested before being brought to Gadchiroli, and also refrain from summoning fresh forces now as the existing ones are already reeling under Covid infection. “Several jawans have been discharged and more are on the way. We require jawans for anti-Naxal operations but they need to be tested first before being brought here,” said Singla. The collector said SRPF personnel staying in bunkers are in close contact with each other, leading to the spread of the infection. “We are unfortunately running out of space as Gadchiroli’s medical infrastructure does not have adequate manpower, and also there is dearth of private hospitals which can be converted into Covid centres,” he said. District civil surgeon Dr Anil Rudey said Gadchiroli has maintained negligible death rate, with only one dying in Hyderabad. He said the district was also following three layers of Covid fighting infrastructure with 13 Covid Care Centres in different blocks of the tribal district, Dedicated Covid Health Centres at Armori, Kurkheda, Aheri and Gadchiroli, along with two 200-bedded Dedicated Covid Hospitals. “We are not worried about the numbers but will fight to keep the death rate low and also stop community spread. So far, substantial manpower has been trained to conduct tests and also handle patients,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gadchirolis-1st-100-cases-in-49-days-next-400-in-just-20-days/articleshow/77187931.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 27, 2020||Surat||Increase working hours, diamond traders urge||Surat: The diamond merchants under the aegis of Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) have urged the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) to increase the operational time of the Mahidhapura diamond market from four to six hours. In a representation by SGCCI’s gems and jewellery committee to the SMC, it is stated that the diamond merchants are unable to do business due to less number of working hours permitted under the standard operating procedures (SOP) issued by SMC. Kirti Shah, chairman of SGCCI’s gems and jewellery committee told TOI, “About 80% of the diamond trade is operated from the Mahidhapura diamond market. Post lockdown, the merchants are facing severe liquidity crisis due to the huge amount of outstanding payments to be realised from the merchants and traders in Mumbai. The four hours of working time from 2pm to 6pm is not enough.” “We have demanded that the market should be allowed to operate from 12pm to 6pm to facilitate the traders in receiving their outstanding payments at their offices,” he added. A diamond merchant in Mahidharpura, Manhar Sutaria told TOI, “It takes about one hour to get the valuables from the safe deposit vault in the morning and again to deposit the stock in the vaults in the evening. However, we are left with only three hours for business. The merchants are unable to sort the polished and rough diamonds due to the limited time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/increase-working-hours-diamond-traders-urge/articleshow/77186409.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Delhi||Can foreigners be let off after apology, SC asks Centre||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Monday sought the response of the Centre whether nine foreigners, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at the Alami Markaz Banglewali Masjid in violation of government guidelines following the Covid outbreak, could be let off if they apologised for their action. A bench, headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar, asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta to take instructions from the government after advocate C U Singh, appearing for the foreign nationals, contended that the Madras high court had passed an order letting off some of the other foreigners after they offered apologies.The apex court thereafter posted the hearing for July 31. At the outset, Mehta told the bench that trial against 23 out of 31 foreigners, who filed petition in the SC, was wrapped up after they agreed to pay fine under the plea bargaining process but nine of them agreed to face proceedings.Singh, however, said the passports of 23 foreigners have not been returned. The SG assured the apex court that the Centre would look into the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/can-foreigners-be-let-off-after-apology-sc-asks-centre/articleshow/77208239.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Delhi||CRPF SI had a tiff with senior before shooting him, killing self||New Delhi: The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) trooper, who shot dead an inspector before killing himself, had got into an argument with him for allegedly being drunk and wasting food.On Saturday night, inspector Karnail Singh reprimanded SI Dasrath Singh in the presence of the other troopers due to which he was upset.A probe revealed that after shooting Karnail with his rifle, Dasrath panicked and tried to flee from the premises. However, on finding other cops near the gate, he shot himself with his service weapon. Police have recorded the statement of Dasrath’s colleagues to establish the sequence of events.A CRPF staffer said that Dasrath was allotted a sharing room with Karnail at the Lodhi Estate quarters. He had allegedly returned to his room in an inebriated state and started having dinner with Karnail. While he ate some of the food, he started throwing away the rest of it. Seeing this, Karnail reprimanded him for wasting and scattering food outside the room. He threatened disciplinary actions against Dasrath.A few minutes later, Dasrath returned with his AK-rifle and opened fire at Karnail. Hearing the gunshots, the other officers started looking for the shooter. A panicked Dasrath then shot himself with the same rifle in the guard room.When the CRPF men reached the room where Karnail was shot, they found the tiffin box with the food scattered. Cops are waiting for the autopsy report of Dasrath and Karnail for more details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/crpf-si-had-a-tiff-with-senior-before-shooting-him-killing-self/articleshow/77208247.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Agra||Three members of village pradhan’s family shot dead in UP’s Kasganj||AGRA: At least three members of a village pradhan's family in Kasganj district were shot dead on Sunday night. A family member of one of the deceased has alleged that the victims were "shot dead in the presence of some policemen over a minor issue of public lane", however, police are yet to speak on the matter. The incident took place around 9 pm at Hodalpur village of Soron police limits. The deceased were identified as Rudra alias Bhupendra Singh (25), Prem Singh (55) and his son Radhacharan (26). All three victims were members of Satyavati's family - the gram pradhan of Hodalpur. Vijendra Pal, the pradhan's husband, Pramod and Guddu were injured and were referred to a government hospital. Kasganj SP Sushil Ghule along with a heavy police force are now present at the village to calm things down. The identities of the accused were yet to be disclosed by the police till late on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/3-members-of-village-pradhans-family-shot-dead-in-ups-kasganj/articleshow/77186476.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Nagpur||5 Vid dists in top-10 for recovery rates in state||Nagpur: Gondia, Bhandara, Akola, Amravati and Chandrapur, five districts in Vidarbha, are among Maharashtra’s top 10 districts with highest recovery rate of Covid-19. Overall, Vidarbha’s recovery rate is higher than the state and national average so far. In district headquarters having municipal corporations, Akola has the best recovery rate in the state. Recovery rate figures released on July 25 show that Mumbai and Sindhudurg (Konkan region), Dhule and Jalgaon (Khandesh region), and Hingoli (Marathwada) are the other in five top-ten districts. Also, Gadchiroli, Yavatmal and Washim districts in Vidarbha are in top 15, which confirms that the overall recovery rate of Vidarbha is better. Gondia, with 91%, leads the state in recovery rate. In municipal corporations, Akola leads Maharashtra with 75.40% recovery. TOI has reported on July 25 that Akola, despite having high number of cases and Covid-19 deaths, has been quite successful in controlling the spread of infection. Akola district collector Jitendra Papalkar said that effective containment zones and aggressive testing was the reason behind these positive results. “Akola has conducted 18,166 tests till date. We are also conducting massive rapid antigen tests,” he said. Akola has 2,412 cases, and 1,980 of them have recovered till date. “Statistical research has proved that Covid-19 spread is under control in Akola. Especially, in municipal corporation area, we have done very effective containment. This experience will help us bring similar control in rural parts too,” said Papalkar, adding that the focus is now on controlling spread in rural parts of district. According to him, more rapid antigen tests will be conducted in rural area. “Our team of SDOs and tehsildars had a meeting today in which we decided to get ready to control Covid-19 in rural areas now. All above 60 years of age will be checked and swab samples of those with low oxygen levels will be collected immediately,” he said. In Gondia, which is leading Maharashtra in recovery rate at more than 90%, the key of success is institutional quarantine of returnees. Gondia has only 245 cases, and most of them are returnees who tested positive during their institutional quarantine period. Total 221 from Gondia have recovered and 3 patients died. Gondia was one of the districts in Maharashtra that remained in Covid-19 green zone for a long time. During this period, they got time to prepare. Till today, 8,179 swab tests have been conducted here by RT-PCR method while 1,211 samples have been tested through rapid antigen method. District collector Kadambari Balkawade has appealed to the people to come forward and test themselves in case they develop any symptoms. Maharashtra districts with top ten recovery rate (On July 25) District| recovery rate Gondia| 90.10% Bhandara| 85% Sindhudurg| 81% Akola| 75.5% Mumbai| 73.15% Amravati| 67.48% Jalgaon| 66.11% Hingoli|65.75% Chandrapur| 63% Dhule| 62% …. VIDARBHA DISTRICTS RECOVERY RATE (As on July 25) Gondia| 90.10% Bhandara| 85% Akola| 75.5% Amravati| 67.48% Chandrapur| 63% Gadchiroli|62.5% Yavatmal|62.4% Nagpur| 62.3% Buldhana| 62% Washim|59.2% Wardha|45%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/5-vid-dists-in-top-10-for-recovery-rates-in-state/articleshow/77196469.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 27, 2020||Nagpur||Follow norms to avoid lockdown: Mundhe||Nagpur: The second day of janata curfew called by the civic administration was a complete success with most shops barring a few groceries and pharmacies remaining closed. There was little traffic on the roads. Mayor Sandip Joshi and municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe thanked Nagpurians for their cooperation. The major markets of the city — Sadar, Sitabuldi, Dharampeth, Central Avenue, Itwari etc — wore a deserted look on Sunday. Shops in residential areas also remained closed. Government as well as private offices were closed it being a Sunday. Mundhe in a press communiqué said that people should show the same sense of responsibility in the coming days. They should wear masks, maintain social distancing and follow other norms. This would obviate the need for imposing a prolonged lockdown, the press release stated. Joshi said that Nagpur had passed the litmus test of janata curfew. “In the coming four days all public representatives, right from MPs to corporators, would move around the city urging people to follow government norms. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) should not be forced to impose a lockdown,” he said. Ashwin Mehadia, president of Nag Vidarbha Chamber of Commerce (NVCC), said that traders had done their bit and now Mundhe should comply with their request of allowing markets to function on weekdays with complete lockdown on Saturday and Sunday. Other shopkeepers also want Mundhe not to impose a lockdown. “I kept my shop closed for two days on commissioner’s appeal. Now he must think about my bread and butter. Lockdown should not be imposed, else everybody will face financial troubles. Everybody has suffered a lot due to the lockdown in summer,” said mobile store owner Karan Grover. Many grocery stores, which were open during lockdown, had downed their shutters during the janata curfew. Rajesh Shahu, owner of a grocery store, said that he had kept his establishment closed as a responsible citizen. “I wanted NMC to realize that we can act responsibly. Now, it should not impose a lockdown,” he told TOI. Domestic helps did not turn up for work in most homes. Family members had to share housework in their absence. Kirti Patel, a doctor, said that she had to go to her hospital despite the curfew. “I had to do housework as well as my official work. Of course, my husband and kids shared household tasks but still lack of domestics is a big problem. Some concessions should be made for women who work in essential services,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/follow-norms-to-avoid-lockdown-mundhe/articleshow/77187955.cms||Ashish Roy
July 27, 2020||Bareilly||160 subsidised solar pumps for Pilibhit farmers on first-come-first-served basis||Pilibhit: The Pilibhit agriculture department is set to provide 160 solar pumps to farmers on subsidy, under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Urja Suraksha Utthan Mahabhiyan scheme of the Union government. The subsidy has been fixed at 40% of the selling price of the solar units.Giving this information to TOI, deputy director of agriculture Yashraj Singh said of the 160 units, 130 surface pumps would be of 2-horsepower capacity, while 30 submersible pumps would be of 3HP.The government had given the contract to supply solar pumps to two companies, based in Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh respectively. For maintaining complete transparency, an online registration system for willing farmers had been invoked, he said.The solar pumps would be distributed on a ‘first come, first served’ basis. Farmers have to pay the price of pumps via a demand draft, drawn in favour of the supplier after deducting the applicable amount of subsidy, Singh said.“The solar pumping units will protect farmers from the hurdle of power supply failure and also help reduce pollution — noise in case of electrically-operated pumping units, air in case of diesel pumping sets. The solar pumps will have zero operational costs,” Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/160-subsidised-solar-pumps-for-pilibhit-farmers-on-first-come-first-served-basis/articleshow/77184140.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Delhi||AAP, BJP spar over SDMC tax proposals||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party-led South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) for trying to hike four taxes at the time of the Covid-19 pandemic and demanded a rollback. The standing committee and the commissioner of SDMC have already cleared the proposals and a final decision is to be taken by its House on Monday. AAP Delhi convener Gopal Rai said BJP should release a white paper clarifying where it has spent its funds. Calling the measures unfortunate, Rai, who is also a minister in Delhi government, said people were suffering from a massive economic crisis and the proposals betrayed Delhiites. “The businesses have not yet fully started. Amid all these problems that have already made the lives of people miserable, SDMC is ready to impose this tax hike on the citizens of Delhi,” Rai said. Increasing the professional tax means that doctors, engineers, chartered accountants and many others will have to pay more, while SDMC also wants to hike tax in unauthorised colonies, the minister said. “BJP is increasing the property transfer tax, too, that will hurt the middle class. Lastly, they have decided to increase the electricity tax,” he pointed out. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Kumar Gupta tweeted saying he had requested the mayor for a rollback. He also urged chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to provide funds to the municipal corporations according to the recommendations of the Fourth Delhi Finance Commission. Mayor Anamika Mithlesh said Gupta had spoken to her but Delhi government should also understand its responsibility. “They are not giving us funds, so how will we run the corporation? We require funds and that’s why we are looking for sources to generate revenues,” Mithilesh said. However, Rai said, “Every time BJP says Delhi government has not paid the required amount to the municipal corporations, but it is a complete lie.” The Congress government in 2013-14 gave Rs 3,345 crore but under the AAP government from 2017-18, the corporations are annually getting Rs 4,667 crore, he claimed. The CAG report has also said they had got Rs 3,815 crore extra loan, but “BJP has used all this money for their corruption”, Rai alleged. AAP’s political affairs committee member Durgesh Pathak said AAP would go door to door to protest if the proposals weren’t rolled back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-bjp-spar-over-sdmc-tax-proposals/articleshow/77187954.cms||---
July 27, 2020||India||Muslim Ram bhakts on way to Ayodhya for celebrations||AYODHYA: Despite the decades-old legal battle between Hindu and Muslim plaintiffs over the Ayodhya title suit, the construction of Ram temple seems to have blurred communal lines and triggered celebrations even among Muslim devotees of Lord Ram. While Faiz Khan is carrying bricks for the temple from his native village in Chhattisgarh, there many Muslim Ram bhakts who will throng the temple town to witness Prime Minister Narendra Modi lay the foundation stone on August 5. Read AlsoPM Modi to begin Ram temple construction at 12.30pm, August 5Prime Minister Narendra Modi will perform the groundbreaking ceremony for construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya at 12.30pm on August 5, a schedule finalised as per suggestions made by a battery of astrologers, reports Akhilesh Singh.TOI spoke to at least five Muslim devotees, Raja Raees, Wasi Haider, Haji Saeed, Jamshed Khan and Azam Khan, who consider Ram as ‘Imam-e-Hind’ and the forefather of many Rajputs, who later embraced Islam. Talking to TOI, Jamshed Khan, Ram devotee and resident of Faizabad, said, “We converted to Islam and embraced a system of prayer according to Islam, but changing our religion doesn’t change our ancestors. We believe Ram was our ancestor and we will celebrate with our Hindu brothers.” Saeed Ahmed, who has been to Mecca and performed Haj, is a devout Muslim, but also a Ram devotee. “We Indian Muslims believe Ram was Imam-e-Hind and I will be in Ayodhya to celebrate the construction of the temple,” he said. Awadh province in charge of Muslim Rashtriya Manch, Dr Anil Singh, also confirmed to TOI that Ram devotee, Faiz Khan’s arrival in Ayodhya with bricks from his home state Chhattisgarh. “There are many Muslim kar sewaks from across India, who are coming to the temple town to participate in celebrations,” he said. Rashid Ansari, a resident of Faizabad, said, “It will be a blessing, if we get a chance to enter the sanctum sanctorum where the foundation will be laid by the prime minister. If the security ring prevents our entry, we will still celebrate the moment from the peripheries.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/muslim-ram-bhakts-on-way-to-ayodhya-for-celebrations/articleshow/77188500.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
July 27, 2020||Surat||Surat: Covid wrecked their lives, but daily wagers donate plasma to save lives||SURAT: As a migrant labourer from Bihar, the impact of coronavirus in his life was manifold. First, it took away his job in the textile market, pushing Kapil Singh’s already hand-to-mouth existence to abject penury, and if that wasn’t enough, the virus then infected him too. However, it could not wreck the warrior’s spirit. The 56-year-old recovered and amid his struggle for survival, left the doctors at SMIMER hospital overwhelmed by donating plasma for other patients. Such benignity from the tribe of grateful survivors of his kind is what is keeping the plasma therapy hopes alive in the city battered by Covid-19. “He did not even have the money to pay for a rickshaw ride. We paid the fare,” said Dr Ankita Shah, head of immunohematology and blood transfusion (IHBT) department at SMIMER. Singh is one among the tribe of his battered ilk, penniless and jobless in Surat but have become icons for humanity through their plasma donation. Doctors said they have received plasma from migrant workers, daily wagers, security guards, ambulance drivers, among many others earning paltry salaries but rich in gratitude. “I was working as a labourer in a textile market, but lost my job. I am fortunate to have recovered from Covid, so I thought the least I could do is to donate plasma for others,” Singh told TOI. There was another such lump-in-the-throat moment for doctors in the New Civil Hospital, when a 52-year-old power-loom worker from Odisha, Bipin Mahapatra, too walked in to donate his plasma. “We have observed that many refrain from donating plasma as their family members discourage them out of fear. In Bipin’s case, his wife not only encouraged him but also accompanied him when he wanted to donate plasma. She was also infected and wanted to donate, but she is a mother of a young child and as per the guidelines, we can’t take her plasma,” Dr Mayur Jagar, in-charge of blood bank at NCH, told TOI. Surat’s two main hospitals have received plasma from 155 people — 85 at SMIMER and 70 at NCH — till date. SMC officials said that 162 people have been administered plasma therapy and results in 80% of the cases have been encouraging with the majority of them being saved from ventilator support. Another donor, Ritesh Rana (45), a security guard at Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), said, “With the help of doctors, I recovered from Covid-19 and now I should help others by donating plasma. I will donate the second time too as I got to know that this therapy helps patients recover.” “There is a huge demand for plasma among doctors treating Covid-19 patients as the results are good. These poor people have shown big hearts by donating plasma by shedding all fears and myths,” Dr Jagar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-wrecked-their-lives-but-penniless-daily-wagers-donate-plasma-to-save-lives/articleshow/77186473.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Agra||Agra Metro rail project: Administrative cell to be established to remove hurdles||Agra: To address issues related to land acquisition in a time-bound manner for the development of the Agra metro rail project, an administrative cell is going to be established. The cell will be established in the Agra Development Authority office. Meanwhile, the Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) is going to start soil testing for the construction of the first phase of the metro rail in Agra in the first week of August.District magistrate (DM) Prabhu N Singh said, “To complete the Agra metro rail development project in a time-bound manner, an administrative cell will be established. The ADA board has approved a proposal for this. The cell’s main objective would be to address all hurdles that come up while implementing the project”. The Agra metro rail project is estimated to cost Rs 8,379.6 crore. A total of 27 stations are planned to be developed along 29.4 km of the rail corridor in the city. According to the detailed project report (DRP) approved by the Union Cabinet, the Agra Metro Rail Project will have two corridors which will pass through the heart of the city and will connect prominent tourist places, including the Taj Mahal, Agra Fort and Sikandra as well as ISBT, Raja Ki Mandi railway station, medical college, Agra Cantt railway station, Collectorate, Sanjay Place and densely populated residential areas. On Friday, the supreme court had given Agra Metro rail project its green signal, after ordering the project authority UPMRC to plant 18,230 tree saplings as compensation for trees it will have to cut down, in order to maintain the ecological balance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-metro-rail-project-administrative-cell-to-be-established-to-remove-hurdles/articleshow/77186494.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Nagpur||Foresters assaulted for stopping grazing in sanctuary||Nagpur: A forest guard and a van major were brutally assaulted, one of them seriously, by two shepherds for stopping them from illicit grazing in Dnyanganga wildlife sanctuary. The incident occurred around 2pm on Saturday in Botha reserve forest compartment 261 when the shepherds with around 60 sheep sneaked into the protected area where grazing is banned. There was a spat between forest staff and shepherds. Fearing seizure of animals by patrolling duty guard Ravindra More and Deepak Kandelkar, the shepherds attacked both with sticks and a blade knife (gupti) leaving them bleeding. The duo also snatched Rs4,520 before fleeing. One of the accused has been identified as Swapnil Hatkar. The injured foresters reached Hiwarkhed police station at 6pm, but API Pravin Tali allegedly did not register their complaint or even record the matter in the station diary. “It was only after deputy conservator Manoj Kumar Khairnar talked to additional SP Sandip Pakhale that offences were registered at 2am on Sunday against the accused. No arrests have been made yet,” said sources. Both the injured staffers are undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Buldhana. According to Khairnar, sheep devouring forest areas is a serious problem in Buldhana. In 2018-2019, the state government, under political pressure, had allowed grazing on territorial forest land on an experimental basis. However, as it turned out to be a futile exercise, government did not extend the permission. Yet, shepherds bring their sheep for grazing illegally. There are more than 1 lakh sheep in Buldhana district alone. SP Dilip Patil-Bhujbal said, “We will certainly take action against the accused as per law. But if the shepherds are committing crime by grazing sheep in forest, why the department doesn’t book them under forest laws?” While the territorial officials are mute spectators, the accused have also been booked under Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. The police have slapped Section 307 (attempt to murder) along with other sections against the two accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/foresters-assaulted-for-stopping-grazing-in-sanctuary/articleshow/77187958.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 27, 2020||Lucknow||Muslim Ram bhakts to witness historic moment in Ayodhya||AYODHYA: Despite the three decades-old legal battle between Hindu and Muslim plaintiffs over the Ayodhya title suit, the construction of Ram temple has blurred communal lines and triggered celebrations even among Muslim devotees of Lord Ram. While Faiz Khan is carrying bricks for the temple from his native village in Chhattisgarh, there many Muslim Ram bhakts who will throng the temple town to witness the historic moment when Prime Minister Narendra Modi lays the foundation stone on August 5. TOI spoke to at least five Muslim devotees, Raja Raees, Wasi Haider, Haji Saeed, Jamshed Khan and Azam Khan, who consider Ram as ‘Imam-e-Hind’ and the forefather of many Rajputs, who later embraced Islam. Talking to TOI, Jamshed Khan, Ram devotee and resident of Faizabad, said, “We converted to Islam and embraced a system of prayer according to Islam, but changing our religion doesn’t change our ancestors. We believe Ram was our ancestor and we will celebrate with our Hindu brothers.” Saeed Ahmed, who has been to Mecca and performed Haj, is a devout Muslim, but also a Ram devotee. “We Indian Muslims believe Ram was Imam-e-Hind and I will be in Ayodhya to celebrate the construction of the temple,” he said. Awadh province in charge of Muslim Rashtriya Manch, Dr Anil Singh, confirmed to TOI about Ram devotee, Faiz Khan’s arrival in Ayodhya with bricks from his home state Chhattisgarh. “There are many Muslim kar sewaks from across India, who are coming to the temple town to participate in celebrations,” he said. Backing the temple construction, president of Muslim Karsewak Sangh, Mohammad Azam Khan, said, “Lord Ram hailed from the community of warriors. I am a Pathan and our ancestors were Kshatriyas and I can claim Ram was my ancestor. Now, Muslims too want to show their support for the temple to spread love and end hatred.”Rashid Ansari, a resident of Faizabad, said, “It will be a blessing, if we get a chance to enter the sanctum sanctorum where the foundation will be laid by the prime minister. If the security ring prevents our entry, we will still celebrate the moment from the peripheries.” Another Muslim Ram bhakt, Wasi Haider, echoed similar sentiments while saying, “we believe in the fundamentals of Islam, but also believe Ram was our forefather.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/muslim-ram-bhakts-to-witness-historic-moment-in-ayodhya/articleshow/77188233.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Dehradun||Char Dham priests express anguish over CM’s ‘Congressmen’ remark||Uttarkashi: Expressing anguish over chief minister TS Rawat’s recent statement that those protesting against restarting Char Dham Yatra are ‘Congressmen’, the priests of the Char Dham shrines said on Sunday that the CM should either withdraw the statement or face protests. Responding to mediapersons’ queries regarding the Char Dham Yatra, Rawat had on Saturday said that those protesting against the yatra are “not priests but Congress members and he could recognise them from their faces.” Priests of the Gangotri and Yamunotri shrines said that the CM’s statement was “offensive and totally incorrect.” Deepak Semwal, general secretary of Gangotri temple committee, said, “We oppose the remark made by CM Rawat. He should either withdraw his statement or be ready to face protests.” He added that the priests were gearing up to continue their protest against restarting the yatra until the situation is back to normal. “We have decided not to conduct any special prayers for pilgrims or provide them the necessary facilities like food and lodging.” Echoing similar sentiments, president of Yamunotri Panch Panda Samiti, Ved Prakash Uniyal, said, “We are already fighting against the Devasthanam Board to save the age-old traditions of the Himalayan shrines and the ancestral rights of the priest community. Instead of trying to understand the concerns of the priests, the CM is now accusing them of being Congressmen. This is unfortunate and regrettable.” Meanwhile, BJP state president Bansidhar Bhagat came out in support of the state government’s decision to open up the yatra for people from outside the state. “The government has tested waters with people from within the state for 25 days to see whether the yatra can go on smoothly. As the situation remained under control, we have opened it for others too. What is wrong in that?” he said. (with inputs from Ishita Mishra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/char-dham-priests-express-anguish-over-cms-congressmen-remark/articleshow/77185755.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
July 27, 2020||Goa||Honour SC verdict on mining: GBA to govt||Panaji: The Goa Mining People’s Front is allowing itself to be used as a pawn by a select few illegal mining interests, Goa Bachao Abhiyan (GBA) has alleged, calling for sustainable development as opposed to the old ways of rampant greed and destruction for the profit of a few families and businesses. Abhiyan’s allegations come after the front criticised Goa Foundation for writing to the Prime Minister over the government’s failure to recover Rs 3,431 crore from former mining leaseholders and over the chief minister’s collusion with the mining lobby to ensure defeat of e-auction of leases in the state. The front alleged Goa Foundation was trying to derail resumption of mining and demanded that the government conduct an inquiry into the NGO’s source of funding. Defending Claude Alvares of Goa Foundation, GBA stated that Alvares exposed the extent of fraud and illegal mining in Goa, the facts on which the Supreme Court acted upon and stopped, pending clean-up of the systems. “Such massive fraud and illegalities are a crime against the people of Goa and the state as well as the Union of India. With such a background, we are aghast that the state government can sit back and allow such public instigation of violence to continue against a person who has dutifully upheld the law,” stated GBA convener Sabina Martins. Attacks on Alvares in this case amount to attack on the laws of India and Supreme Court and should not be tolerated, secretary Reboni Saha stated, adding that the front could have benefitted from the recovery of thousands of crores from large scale illegal mining loot yet to be recovered by the government. “Best practices through auctions and methods of equitable distribution of resources have been repeatedly highlighted as balanced ways forward and yet it is being rejected outright by a select few mining interests in fear of finally being brought under legal scrutiny,” she added. GBA has called for the government to stop all diversionary tactics and uphold the Supreme Court orders, ensure law and order prevails and work urgently for a sustainable way forward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/honour-sc-verdict-on-mining-gba-to-govt/articleshow/77187976.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Surat||Two Surat girls discover asteroid; Nasa confirms||SURAT: While comet NEOWISE is keeping earthlings busy with its rare appearance, two Surat Class X girls made their own trailblazing once-in-a-lifetime discovery recently. Two 14-year-olds from PP Savani Chaitanya Vidhya Sankul – Vaidehi Vekariya and Radhika Lakhani – discovered an asteroid, now christened as HLV2514 by Nasa upon confirmation. It also holds the potential of crossing the earth some day. According to the training institute, SPACE, where the duo trains for astronomical studies, Nasa has sent a confirmation mail about the two Class X girls’ rare discovery. The students spotted the asteroid during the study as part of the All India Asteroid Search Campaign (AIASC) of IASC, an outreach programme of Nasa for space research. In an email to the institute, the IASC director, Dr Patrick Miller, stated, “In the last campaign, your team reported HLV2514 as a new asteroid. It is, in fact, a near-Earth object (NEO). This NEO is near the planet Mars, and over time (~10^6 years) will evolve into an Earth-crossing asteroid. Mars-crossing asteroids are called Amors. Earth-crossing asteroids are called Apollos. Congratulations!!" Receiving the adulation of Miller, a professor of mathematics at Hardin-Simmons University in Abilene in Texas, the girls are overjoyed not only with their discovery but at being recognized too. “We had tagged around 20 objects of which this one proved lucky. We have given it a random name at present and we may get an opportunity to name the asteroid once its orbit is confirmed by Nasa. It may, however, take a few years’ time,” duo told TOI. Vaidehi's father is in the textile business, while Radhika's father is in the business of computer peripherals. Vaidehi's family hails from Bhavnagar while Radhika's family is from Amreli district. It all began by examining multiple images by Pan-STARRS Telescope in Hawaii on a software and identified the moving object that the duo spotted moving near Mars, which incidentally till now was hidden. IASC facilitates students with images and software to study, and the participants identify these objects and tag them with numbers. They then submit the details and after verification IASC confirms a rare discovery. "It is the first time in Gujarat and after four years in the country that an asteroid has been discovered," claimed Akash Dwivedi, educator at SPACE. From participation in the programme to learning — the entire study process was from home amid the pandemic conditions. Watch NASA confirms Class X girls have discovered an asteroid||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-surat-girls-discover-asteroid-nasa-confirms/articleshow/77186514.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
July 27, 2020||Delhi||Delhi govt looks to give economy a shot in arm||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is likely to announce a series of initiatives next week for the economic revival of Delhi. With Delhi government succeeding in containing the spread of Covid-19, the focus is now on bringing the economy back on track and getting people their livelihoods, sources said. The initiative will include the launch of a job portal and focus on resumption of all business activities in Delhi, including malls and hotels, sources added. The chief minister has received several suggestions from economists and representatives from trade and industry for Delhi’s economic revival. Dialogue and Development Commission of Delhi, which has recently formed a committee to suggest measures for economic recovery in Delhi, has also received representations. Sources said several industry associations, such as CII, Automotive Parts Merchant Association, Delhi Textile Merchants Association, National Restaurants Association of India and Handicrafts Exporters Association among others, have given their suggestions on measures Delhi government should take to revive the economy. Delhi government, sources said, is preparing a detailed action plan based on the suggestions of all these experts and industry representatives. One of these initiatives is the job portal that will help both employers and those seeking jobs. With a large number of migrant labourers returning, Delhi government’s job portal will help them connect with employers who are unlocking and need staff. Delhi labour and employment minister Gopal Rai said Kejriwal will launch the job portal in the next few days. He added that those seeking jobs will be able to post their details and requirements in accordance with their qualification on the portal. They will not have to apply for jobs at several places. Earlier this month, Delhi government had formed a 12-member expert committee to explore economic reform measures in order to help businesses recover from the impact of Covid-19 and the panel is carrying out a comprehensive analysis. The relief measures being planned by Delhi government for existing businesses and entrepreneurs who want to take up new economic activities may include allowing renewal or automatic extension of licences issued by various departments that expired in March 2020 till March 2021 without penalty, except for categories like excise, pollution control, fire safety, etc. Moratorium with respect to lease payments is likely to be given in some areas. The government may also waive off some fines and penalties to remove undue financial hardships on firms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-govt-looks-to-give-economy-a-shot-in-arm/articleshow/77187967.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 27, 2020||Bareilly||UP: 123 new Covid-19 positive cases in Bareilly dist||BAREILLY: A high number of daily Covid-19 positive cases were reported from across western Uttar Pradesh on Sunday. At least 123 fresh Covid-19 positive cases were found in Bareilly district, while a woman passed away during treatment at a Covid-19 facility. There were 37 more cases in Shahjahanpur. A 56-year-old man, who was a bank staff, died during treatment at a district hospital. Five employees of UP roadways were among eight people who were found positive in Lakhimpur Kheri district, while seven fresh cases emerged from Budaun district. In Agra district, at least 27 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced on Sunday, taking the district tally to 1,652. They included four patients of SARI, two of influenza-like illness, a patient of coronary artery infection and a kidney patient. Nine patients were discharged. Of the 1,652 cases, 82.20% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are also 197 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Also, at least 27 people, including a military personnel and a trainee in railways, tested positive in Meerut on Sunday, taking the total tally to 1,970, said Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's chief medical officer. Meanwhile, BJP MP Pradeep Chaudhary from Kairana seat, his wife, son and three house helps tested positive for Covid-19 in Saharanpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/123-new-covid-19-ve-cases-in-bareilly-five-up-roadways-staff-infected-in-kheri/articleshow/77196224.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Nagpur||Deshpande music festival on FB||Nagpur: The Pandit Vasantrao Deshpande memorial music festival will be held online for the first time in its 29-year-old history. Due to restrictions on public gatherings, the South Central Zone Cultural Centre (SCZCC) will telecast the performances of the artistes live on its Facebook page. The festival will be held from July 29 to 31, 7.30pm onwards. On the first day, Rajendra and Shruti Bhave of Mumbai will play the violin. This will be followed by classical vocal music of Mumbaikar Shalmalee Joshi. On July 30, Pandit Kaivalyakumar of Dharwad will present classical vocal music. This will be followed by Bharatnatyam dance of Somasekhar Chudanath of Bangalore. A musical play – Mandarmala — is slated for the last day. It will be presented by Deval Smarak Mandir, Sangli. Vidyadhar Gokhale is the writer while Sharad Bapat is the director. The festival is being held every year since 1990, except once when the Deshpande hall was closed for renovation. Rahul Deshpande, grandson of Vasantrao, expressed happiness that SCZCC was holding the festival despite Covid-19. “In these times, online concerts are the right thing as they are safe. Besides, an online performance will ensure that people not living in Nagpur also get to enjoy it,” he told TOI. Shraddha Kapoor, a regular attendee of the festival, said that she was disappointed that the festival was not being held this year on stage. “However, I will watch the five performances online. I hope that the audio and video quality provided by SCZCC is good,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/deshpande-music-festival-on-fb/articleshow/77187970.cms||Ashish Roy
July 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Corpn’s fever camps to collect samples from symptomatic people, check Covid-19 spread||Coimbatore: The city corporation is all set to collect throat and nasal swabs from people with Covid-19 symptoms at the fever camps from Monday. The civic body has been recruiting lab technicians for the purpose.Presently, health workers at the fever camps are sending the people with flu-like symptoms to nearby primary health centres, each one of which draw people from three to four wards. The camps are conducted six days a week across the city corporation limits.A city corporation source said, “On an average, 1,500 to 2,000 people are visiting the camps a day. At least 70 to 1,00 of them are subjected to polymerise chain reaction test. We are testing contacts of positive patients also.”City corporation commissioner J Sravan Kumar said the decision to collect throat swabs at the fever camps was taken to reduce the delay in testing the people with symptoms and make the entire process easy for them (people). “We will start collecting throat swabs on the spot at a few camps on Monday.”The city corporation has close to 50 lab technicians, including the ones with the 32 primary health centres and 10 mobile medical units. “To ensure that all the fever camps have a lab technician, we are recruiting another 50 lab technicians for a monthly salary of Rs15,000. We have already started the recruitment drive and interested candidates could approach us. All the technicians at the primary health centres would be shifted to the fever camps once the recruitment process is over,” Sravan Kumar said.Pointing out that the fever camps and door-to-door survey were effective in identifying new positive cases, he said more than half of the recent Covid-19 cases in the city corporation limits was identified through them. “We are also distributing immunity booster packs comprising multivitamin and zinc tablets and kabasura kudineer to the people. Fumigation drive is also carried out across the city.”The source, meanwhile, said 70% to 80% of the positive cases were asymptomatic. “The fever camps are useful to identify symptomatic cases. Primary and secondary contacts of infected people are identified through surveys.”The city corporation has been conducting fever camps for the past three weeks and has already covered more than half of the areas. The remaining localities, the source said, would be covered in a week. “Right from sending people with symptoms to primary health centre to taking tests to obtaining results and sending them to the ESI Hospital or Covid care centre for treatment, the entire responsibility is on the shoulders of health workers at the camps.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpns-fever-camps-to-collect-samples-from-symptomatic-people-check-covid-19-spread/articleshow/77187965.cms||Nivedha Selvam
July 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Residents ask city corpn to open Sullivan Street||Coimbatore: Residents of Sullivan Street, a containment zone, urged the city corporation to reopen it.The corporation had sealed entrances to the street on July 9 after four residents turned positive for Covid-19, said Jothi, a resident. “Though the patients were discharged and returned a week ago, the street has not been reopened. Officials said they will reopen only on Friday,” she told TOI.As Edayar Street is part of Sullivan Street, it was divided into two parts and the corporation sealed the two parts separately, said Tirupathi, a resident. “No one tested positive on the stretch close to Gandhi Park in the last 10 days. The corporation should consider reopening at least a portion,” he said. The residents have been buying essential commodities from grocery shops on the street. “As both ends of our street are closed and no two-wheelers can pass, we are forced to walk through Edayar Street to buy essentials that are not available in the shops,” Jothi said. “My children’s school wants us to pay 40% of the fee by cheque. Until the street is opened, I cannot go to my bank at RS Puram for the purpose.”Meanwhile, corporation officials said that they will open containment zones 14 days after the last positive case is reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/residents-ask-city-corpn-to-open-sullivan-street/articleshow/77187963.cms||Nivedha Selvam
July 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Results on over 22,800 samples tested are inconclusive||BENGALURU: Since May 15, when the government began routinely releasing data on samples collected and results obtained, until July 16, when it stopped the practice, the total number of (RT-PCR) tests conducted on a given day have not matched the total of positive and negative tests. On most days, the number of positives is less than the difference between the total tests and number of negatives, which, most officials TOI spoke with said “could be because of inconclusive tests”. However, there are also days — July 16 for instance —where the number of positives and negatives add up to more than the total tests, which officials are unable to explain. Cumulatively, in the two months in question, there are 22,842 tests which were neither negative nor positive. A total of 7.9 lakh tests were conducted during the two-month period, of which 7.2 lakh returned negative. While the data pertains to a specific period — May 15 to July 16 when the state stopped releasing data on the number of samples testing negative — there could be more such cases in the weeks preceding May 15 and the days after July 16. Multiple calls to medical education minister K Sudhakar, health minister B Sriramulu, principal secretary (health) Jawaid Akthar and health commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey went unanswered. Health director Omprakash Patil, said: “We will have to check why the numbers are so high if these are inconclusive tests. Another reason could be because some samples tested were of those people who were already positive. We will get back with more details.” Dr CN Manjunath, nodal officer testing, also said he would have to check why there were so many cases that don’t add up, while IAS officer Shalini Rajneesh, who is also overseeing testing operations in the state, did not comment immediately, stating that she took charge only recently. Dr Shanmugappa from RGUHS, who is coordinating with testing labs in the state, said: “Apart from positives and negatives, some tests are indeterminate/inconclusive which could be the reason for the number of positives and negatives not adding up to the total tests done.” On how on some days the number of positives and negatives together add up to more than the total tests done on the day, Dr Shanmugappa said: “You need to check that with the national health mission.” Arundathi Chandrashekar, mission director, National Health Mission, said positive results being fewer than the difference between total tests and negative results could be because of inconclusive tests and duplication in tests data, but admitted the number of positives being more than the difference was puzzling. “We will have to check on that specifically before responding. There is no explanation for the number of positives being more,” she said. One member on the government’s task force, without wanting to be named, said that even the task force has not been able to get a correct response to this mismatch. All the officials TOI spoke with unanimously agreed that in case of an inconclusive test result, the procedure was to collect the sample from the subject afresh and redo the test. However, the state does not have data on how many such tests have been conducted so far. While Patil, and Shanmugappa said there is no such data, Arundathi said: “That data may be available at the district level, it is not maintained by us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/results-on-over-22-8k-samples-tested-are-inconclusive/articleshow/77186898.cms||Chethan Kumar
July 27, 2020||Agra||UP: 123 new Covid-19 positive cases in Bareilly dist||BAREILLY: A high number of daily Covid-19 positive cases were reported from across western Uttar Pradesh on Sunday. At least 123 fresh Covid-19 positive cases were found in Bareilly district, while a woman passed away during treatment at a Covid-19 facility. There were 37 more cases in Shahjahanpur. A 56-year-old man, who was a bank staff, died during treatment at a district hospital. Five employees of UP roadways were among eight people who were found positive in Lakhimpur Kheri district, while seven fresh cases emerged from Budaun district. In Agra district, at least 27 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced on Sunday, taking the district tally to 1,652. They included four patients of SARI, two of influenza-like illness, a patient of coronary artery infection and a kidney patient. Nine patients were discharged. Of the 1,652 cases, 82.20% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are also 197 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Also, at least 27 people, including a military personnel and a trainee in railways, tested positive in Meerut on Sunday, taking the total tally to 1,970, said Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's chief medical officer. Meanwhile, BJP MP Pradeep Chaudhary from Kairana seat, his wife, son and three house helps tested positive for Covid-19 in Saharanpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/123-new-covid-19-ve-cases-in-bareilly-five-up-roadways-staff-infected-in-kheri/articleshow/77186537.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Bareilly||Village head’s son shot dead over political rivalry||RAMPUR: A 27-year-old man was shot dead in Dalpura village of Rampur over “political rivalry”. Mashkoor Ahmad alias Billu was killed on Saturday evening, while his brother Hasnaian alias Guddu was also injured. Mashkoor’s mother Ashiya is the village head. Heavy police force has been deployed in the village after the incident. The accused were identified as Nisar, Naik Mohammed, Shaer Mohammad, Bholu and Shareef in the FIR filed after the murder. Superintendent of police (SP) Shaghun Gautam also rushed to the spot after the incident. “During the preliminary probe, it came to the fore that the assailants passed objectionable comments against Mashkoor after which the altercation took place and he was shot dead,” the SP said, adding that both the families were political opponents. The accused are absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/village-heads-son-shot-dead-over-political-rivalry/articleshow/77186550.cms||Nazar Abbas
July 27, 2020||Dehradun||No income, ex-captain of Indian wheelchair cricket team forced to work as labourer||Pithoragarh: The kids he coached earlier have stopped coming to him for a while now. Their parents said there was no money. Staring at a dead end, Rajendra Singh Dhami, 30, former captain of the Indian wheelchair cricket team and current captain of the Uttarakhand side, has now been forced to work as a labourer to support his family. Dhami, who is 90% disabled after he was stuck with paralysis as a 3-year-old, has won numerous awards for his performance on the cricketing field. He also has a masters degree in History as well as a BEd. But despite his qualifications and performance as a sportsperson who has represented the country and continues to play for the state, he was left without a source of income during the Covid-19-induced lockdown. “Before this, I was giving coaching to wheelchair-bound children interested in playing cricket in Rudrapur. But that came to a halt. I returned to my village Raikot in Pithoragarh, where my parents live,” Dhami told TOI. He added that a few months into the lockdown, it became very difficult to make ends meet. “My parents are old. I have a sister and younger brother as well. My brother used to work at a hotel in Gujarat but he, too, lost his job during the lockdown. Therefore, I decided to take up work in my village under the MGNREGA scheme,” said the cricketer who has toured several countries like Malaysia, Bangladesh and Nepal while leading the Uttarakhand wheelchair cricket team. Asked if he approached anybody for help, Dhami, who led the Indian side in the India-Nepal-Bangladesh triangular wheelchair cricket series in 2017, said, “ Some people have come forward to help like actor Sonu Sood who sent me Rs 11,000. There are people in Rudrapur and Pithoragarh also who have helped me a bit.” But it hasn’t been enough for the family. “There is no problem in doing any kind of job to earn a living. I took up the MGNREGA job because it enables me to work near my home. These are difficult times but I know I will be able to overcome them,” he said with a smile that appeared to reach his eyes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-income-ex-captain-of-indian-wheelchair-cricket-team-forced-to-work-as-labourer/articleshow/77185799.cms||Prem Punetha
July 27, 2020||Agra||In queue for 2nd time to get more fruits, 2 kids tied & brutally flogged during religious feast||Agra: Two children, one of them the son of a labourer, were tied and flogged by two men “as punishment” for lining up again to get fruits during a religious feast organized in a Mathura village. According to the accused, the children were trying to steal fruits. Aged just 12 and 10 years, the children can be seen crying and begging for mercy in a video which has now been shared widely on social media platforms. On Sunday evening, both the accused were arrested by Mathura Police which had filed an FIR against them a few hours earlier. The alleged incident took place on Friday in Mathura’s Maant area. District’s child rights’ body has informed the UP State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (UPSCPCR) and district child welfare committee about the matter. They have also demanded adding sections of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act into the FIR. The suspects, Pawan Kumar and Susheel Kumar, were booked under sections 342 (wrongful consignment), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC at Maant police station. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Mathura Guarav Grover said that both the accused have been arrested. Childline district coordinator in Mathura, Narendra Parihar, told TOI, “One of the victims was from the same village while the other was a migrant labourer’s child, who is untraceable.” According to the statement given by the minor boy, he stood in the queue twice to receive the 'prasad' and this infuriated the youths, Parihar said. “They first slapped and abused them. And when one of them objected to it, they tied their legs with a rope and thrashed them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/in-queue-for-2nd-time-to-get-more-fruits-2-kids-tied-brutally-flogged-during-religious-feast/articleshow/77186552.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
July 27, 2020||Chennai||Songs of son of the soil||By R Rangaraj Chennai: On the banks of the Kollidam river, an old lady would sing folk songs to her grandchildren. One of them was so influenced by these songs that he wanted to write poems. The passion led to A Maruthakasi, born in a farmers home to go on to write songs that cine icons like MGR, Sivaji Ganesan, Savithri and Bhanumathi hummed and danced to. The centenary year of the man who went on to write more than 4,000 songs for Tamil films is hardly being remembered by the industry to which he gave 25 years. Born on February 13, 1920 at Melakudikadu in Trichy district, Maruthakasi studied only upto intermediate level at Government College in Kumbakonam as he had to return to agriculture to help his family. Yet, from a young age his love for Tamil literature and his flair for writing poetry made him want to chart a different path. Rajagopala Aiyer, brother of famous Tamil film lyricist and music composer Papanasam Sivan, had a great impact on the life of Maruthakasi. The young Maruthakasi used to write songs for plays which impressed Aiyer and noted singer Trichy Loganathan who recommended Maruthakasi to T R Sundaram of Modern Theatres in Salem to write for films. Maruthakasi got to write his first song "Penn Enum Maaya Peyaam" in 1949 for the film for ‘Mayavathi. His songs for ‘Ponmudi’ in 1950 and "Vaaraay Nee Vaaraay", "Ulavarum Thenral" sung by Trichy Loganathan for ‘Mandhirikumari’ became big hits and Maruthakasi became a much sought after lyricist. It was also the beginning of his successful working partnership with Ka Mu Sheriff. Maruthakasi soon acquired a reputation for writing lyrics in accordance with the tune. This particularly came in handy while writing songs for films dubbed or remade from other languages, especially Hindi, a trend at the time. His son Maruthabarani, who seems to have imbibed his father’s talent of writing Tamil songs for tunes of other languages, said that when a line in a song in Tamil had to be fitted for the Malayalam words "Malayalam Ende Malayalam", Maruthakasi came up with the line "Malaiyaagumae Thiru Malaiyaagumae", to go with the lip-sync and the production unit greeted the line with all-round cheer.Many times, filmmakers, despite working with other lyricists, would turn to Maruthakasi when it came to remakes. For instance, one of his evergreen songs "Neela Vanna Kannaa Vaadaa" in ‘Mangaiyar Thilakam’ (1955), re-make of a Marathi film, was initially assigned to Kannadasan. But when filmmaker L V Prasad wasn’t impressed by the song, he approached Maruthakasi and the rest is history. His magic with words was also felt in ‘Alibabavum 40 Thirudargalum’ (1956), another film that was based on the tunes of a Hindi film. The lyricist Udumalai Narayana Kavi wanted only fresh songs as he had a distaste for the black, round-shaped Hindi LP records, calling them ‘karuppu dosai kal’, and recommended Maruthakasi who delivered with chartbusters like "Azhagaana Ponnu Naan Adhukaetha Kannudhaan" and "Ullasa Ulagam Unakke Sondham". Soon he began writing songs for all the leading music directors such as S V Venkataraman, G Ramanathan, K V Mahadevan, S Dakshinamurthy and the duo Viswanathan-Ramamoorthy. He was among the first to change Tamil film lyrics from a Sanskrit-dominated, mythology-oriented period to a format that was closer to the Tamil people, incorporating contemporary ideas, while at the same time stressing on the cultural roots, especially with relation to traditional crafts and agriculture. Many of his songs were rooted to the Tamil Nadu soil, bearing a stamp of nativity. Of course, he did his share of mythology-based films ‘Sampoorna Ramayanam’ (1958) starring N T Rama Rao, Sivaji Ganesan, Padmini and T K Bhagavathy, and Lava Kusa which became popular among the masses. But he preferred social films.The humane qualities of Maruthakasi came to the fore on several occasions. He gave opportunities to Pattukkotai Kalyanasundaram early in his career. He was one of those who recommended T M Sounderarajan for ‘Thookku Thookki’, though initially actor Sivaji Ganesan wanted only C S Jayaraman to sing for him. After the film TMS became a regular fixture for Sivaji. Maruthakasi also played a vital role in the career of Vali, whose song "Sirikkinraal Inru Sirikkinraal" for ‘Nallavan Vaazhvaan’ was not accepted by the film crew, who and invited Maruthakasi to write the song instead. Maruthakasi insisted on retaining Vali’s song which helped his association with C N Annadurai and MGR (hero). Like a few other illustrious colleagues in the film industry he tried his hand at film production. The film ‘Alli Petra Pillai; re-make of a successful Hindi movie ‘Tangewali’ was lost without a trace. When his co-producer K V Mahadevan rued the fact that they were debt ridden, Maruthakasi shrugged and said, "Aanaakka Andha Madam, Aagaatti Sandhe Madam". He converted his pain into art and used these lines as pallavi for the film ‘Aayiram Roobaay’, which said that they can either reach the skies or descend to the level of a platform.Meanwhile, Kannadasan had risen to dizzying heights, and Maruthakasi, already facing a huge debt burden, found his opportunities shrinking. He decided to quit and moved back to his village, cutting off all ties from 1963 to 1967. In 1967, after MGR, who was his close friend, recovered from the shooting incident involving M R Radha, and decided to resume work and sent word for Maruthakasi to return and write for his films. Maruthakasi returned, recorded a song but the film was suddenly shelved. MGR continued to support him. It was Maruthakasi's rustic songs like "Kadavul Enum Mudhalali Kandedutha Thozhilaali Vivasaayi", for ‘Vivasaayi’, which added to MGR’s pro-farmer, image. Devar backed Maruthakasi’s second innings with Thaerthiruvizha, and other films. In the later years, he wrote lyrics for a few films starring Jaishankar, Rajinikanth and Sivakumar. He was conferred the title Thiraikkavi Thilakam. His works were nationalised by the Government of Tamil Nadu.A man, deeply moved by the Cauvery, agriculture and the traditions of the working class in Tamil Nadu, wedded to self-respect, he will always remain the true son of the soil through his words. (The writer is president,Chennai 2000 Plus Trust)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/songs-of-son-of-the-soil/articleshow/77187971.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Subsidy for drip irrigation||Coimbatore: Farmers can avail subsidy for installing drip irrigation systems in their fields.While small and marginal farmers can avail 100% subsidy, others can get 75% of the cost, district agriculture department officials said.The subsidy is available for a maximum of five hectares, district joint director of agriculture R Chitradevi said. “Those who had availed subsidy seven years ago are also eligible this year for reinstalling the system. Those who had set up the system at their own cost are eligible to get subsidy for the uncovered area and to install components such as sprinklers and rain guns to cultivate intercrops such as pulses and oilseeds in coconut groves.” As much as Rs 45 crore has been allocated for providing subsidy for 5,100 hectares in the district. In addition, Rs 6.9 core has been allocated for supplementary water management activities. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/subsidy-for-drip-irrigation/articleshow/77187972.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Nagpur||Patients, doctors left in the lurch as new CCCs off to a chaotic start||Nagpur: Asymptomatic corona positive patients were badly hit after Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) hurriedly decided to shift them from government hospitals to new Covid Care Centres (CCCs) at VNIT girls hostel, Pachpaoli police quarters, Symbiosis hostel and Vanamati on Saturday night and Sunday. At the same time, several suspects who tested positive were retained at these four newly-converted CCCs while over 1,000 suspects who tested negative time were sent for 14-day home isolation. Forty-nine positive patients are now at Pachpaoli, and 15 at Vanamati. An unspecified number of patients are now at Symbiosis. VNIT admitted 148 asymptomatic patients from GMCH and IGGMCH till Sunday evening. At the same time, it also admitted another 40 suspects on Saturday as they had already reached the centre. On the other hand, centre incharge also handled the release of 502 suspects. As per VNIT, Pachpaoli and Vanamati officials, the retained patients tested positive in the second tests. As district is following 10 day discharge policy, the now positive persons have already spent 6 days in quarantine and now CCC because of long wait list at government hospitals. On Saturday, the civic body decided to convert these quarantine centres into CCCs and all suspects who tested negative were released in a jiffy. The sudden decision took by surprised the doctors and paramedics, who remained stuck at these new CCCs until late in the night. At Pachpaoli police quarters, NMC started procuring beds and mattress on Sunday, a day after making it a CCC. At other centres except VNIT, the scene was similar with doctors unaware of new norms and arrangements. Some officials reportedly refused to report to Vanamati and Symbiosis after coming to know that positive patients would be shifted there. Symbiosis CCC in-charge referred TOI queries to NMC administration. At Vanamati, the centre in-charge was not present even though 15 asymptomatic patients were sent there. In contrast, MLA hostel quarantine centre was converted into a CCC with full coordination among all stakeholders and sufficient time to officials to stop admitting suspects and then prepare for the CCC. The other CCC at Shalinitai Meghe Medical College also opened without any glitch. New patients at the four CCCs complained of poor facilities and food. Many also demanded to either be sent back to hospital or to home isolation. Civil surgeon Dr Devendra Paturkar said manpower issues still persisted. “We are trying to resolve them,” he said. Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said the chaos was because everyone wanted to go in the first batch. “Once it was announced that first-test negative suspects would be home isolated, all demanded to go on Saturday itself,” he said. Regarding lack of facilities, Joshi said assistant municipal commissioner and chief medical officer besides himself had inspected the CCC but no one complained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/patients-doctors-left-in-the-lurch-as-new-cccs-off-to-a-chaotic-start/articleshow/77187966.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 27, 2020||India||Rajasthan governor meets chief secretary and DGP, adds to drama, intrigue||JAIPUR: Rajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra caused a flutter on Sunday when he met chief secretary Rajeeva Swarup and DGP Bhupendra Singh Yadav to discuss, among other things, security at Raj Bhavan against the backdrop of a Congress protest scheduled for Monday that the party later called off. While the main item on the official agenda for the meeting was Rajasthan’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic, Mishra being closeted with the heads of the civil and police administration added to the drama and intrigue of the ongoing political crisis triggered by sacked deputy CM Sachin Pilot’s revolt against CM Ashok Gehlot. A statement issued by Raj Bhavan at 4.30pm said the chief secretary and the DGP briefed Mishra about the steps being taken to prevent any law-and-order problem during the Congress-organised protest. Less than two hours later, the new PCC chief and minister Govind Singh Dotasra tweeted that Congress would hold demonstrations as part of its save-democracy-save Constitution campaign “outside Raj Bhavans in all states except Rajasthan”. Read AlsoRajasthan speaker may seek closure of SC proceedingsThe Rajasthan speaker is likely to seek closure of proceedings in the SC on Monday on his petition challenging the high court’s jurisdiction to interfere in the process of adjudication of disqualification petition filed by the Congress chief whip. Congress sources said the speaker’s hurried SC“We have sent a revised request (for an assembly session) to the governor and hope that he would grant permission to convene the session soon,” Dotasra said in a tweet posted at 6.18pm. कल Save Democracy-Save Constitution अभियान के तहत कांग्रेसी देश की सभी राज्यों में राजभवन के सामने प्रदर्शन करेंगे,… https://t.co/m1JwgOyzAB— Govind Singh Dotasra (@GovindDotasra) 1595767686000CM Gehlot had said on Friday that the administration should not be held responsible if people were to ‘gherao’ Raj Bhavan over the governor not acceding to his request for a special assembly session. Leader of the opposition Gulab Chand Kataria told TOI on Sunday that Gehlot’s statement was nothing short of an act of “terrorising” the governor to do his bidding. “Though Raj Bhavan’s security is the government and the police’s responsibility, the CM saying he will not be responsible for any trouble created doubt. I, therefore, demanded the task be handed over to the CRPF,” he said. Kataria said, “...governor can always ask why the request is being made. Once the government replies to queries, I am sure the governor will convene a session.” A 15-member BJP delegation had met Mishra on Saturday and urging to take “action” against the CM for allegedly resorting to intimidation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajasthan-governor-meets-chief-secretary-and-dgp-adds-to-drama-intrigue/articleshow/77188504.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 27, 2020||Patna||Seven die, over 15 lakh hit as floods ravage more districts in Bihar||PATNA: Seven people, including two in Darbhanga, have so far died and over 15 lakh affected by floods in 11 north Bihar districts. The floodwaters spread to five blocks in Saran on Sunday, making it the 11th affected district in north Bihar. According to state disaster management department, four people in West Champaran had died in the floods earlier and over 1.36 lakh had been evacuated to safer places as 625 panchayats under 86 blocks were marooned. Altogether 25 NDRF and SDRF teams were conducting rescue operations in Sitamarhi, Sheohar, Supaul, Kishanganj, Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur, Gopalganj, East Champaran, West Champaran, Khagaria and Saran districts. Floodwaters entered Motihari town and train service on Muzaffarpur-Narkatiyaganj section remained disrupted as water was flowing over rail bridge 248 between Sagauli and Majhauliya stations. Floodwaters overtopped the rail tracks at Sagauli Junction in East Champaran. The diversion at 17.70km of Hayaghat Karachin embankment on Kareh river was breached, but the situation was under control, according to the state water resources department. Except Burhi Gandak and Bagmati, all major rivers had showed a receding trend on Sunday evening, state water resources department minister Sanjay Kumar Jha said. “Our engineers are working overtime to plug the Saturday breach in the Gandak embankment in Gopalganj. There were certain problems in transportation of goods as people in large number have come on the embankment. There was seepage/piping at Hayaghat. The engineers are monitoring all the embankments and plugging seepage/piping immediately after getting information,” Jha told TOI. He said moderate to heavy rain is predicted in the catchment areas of Gandak, Burhi Gandak, Bagmati, Kamala, Kosi and Mahananda areas till July 29. However, the Central Water Commission (CWC), in its bulletin on Sunday evening, stated that rivers Parman in Araria, Mahananda in Purnia and Katihar, Kosi in Khagaria, Adhwara in Darbhanga, Bagmati in Darbhanga, Sitamarhi and Muzaffarpur, Kamala and Kamla Balan in Madhubani, Burhi Gandak in East Champaran, Muzaffarpur and Samastipur, Ghaghra in Siwan and Gandak in Gopalganj and Muzaffarpur were flowing in ‘severe flood situation’ with falling trend. These rivers were flowing in ‘above normal flood situation’ in many of the downstream locations with falling trend and are likely to further fall in 2-3 days. However, rainfall is likely to rise in Bihar on July 29 and 30, the CWC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/7-die-over-15l-hit-as-floods-ravage-more-districts-in-state/articleshow/77187407.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
July 27, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat adds 11 points to sex ratio at birth||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat has recorded an increase of 11 points in sex ratio at birth in the block year of 2016-18 as compared to 2015-17. But compared to 2012-2014 the state has reported the steepest fall of 41 points — the highest in the country. The sex ratio at birth was 907 in the block year of 2012-14 in Gujarat, while the current ratio is 866. The Sample Registration Survey 2018, released recently, reveals that the sex ratio at birth dropped constantly in rural areas of Gujarat while it kept rising in urban areas during the last two block years. The overall gain of 11 points in sex ratio at birth between 2015-17 and 2016-18 can largely be attributed to the improvement by 27 points in urban areas in the same period. The child sex ratio (0-6 years) meanwhile, improved by 7 points between two censuses from 883 in Census 2001 to 890 in Census 2011. A senior state government officer wishing anonymity said that cases of girl child abortion are still heard of in north Gujarat and Saurashtra and in certain communities. Even in healthcare and medical attention, the officer said, parents were found ready to spend for a male child, but a girl child faced neglect. He said regular raids used to be conducted earlier on radiologists, but for the past couple of years they have reduced in frequency, and mostly devolved to token affairs. Sociologist Gaurang Jani said it is too late now to match the number of girls with that of boys. “There are several factors that contribute to the falling girl child ratio. In several communities the new generation is adopting the nuclear family model, and once the family has a girl and a boy they adopt family planning. In some cases, if a boy is born first, the family does not go for a second child.” Not just in urban areas, but such a trend has also been observed among the young in tribal communities. “Moreover, human fertility in the state is dropping across all communities thus affecting the sex ratio. The Census 2021 is due, and I am sure it will find child sex ratio (0-6 years) has registered a decline,” Jani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-adds-11-points-to-sex-ratio-at-birth/articleshow/77187414.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
July 27, 2020||Delhi||AAP govt to form panel to check abuse at workplace||New Delhi: Delhi government will form a five-member committee to monitor prevention of sexual harassment of women at workplace, said women and child development minister Rajendra Pal Gautam on Sunday. Gautam chaired a review meeting on implementation of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, where the decision to constitute the committee was taken. “The composition of the committee may include some government officers, non-government organisation sector and members of the civil society,” he said. The minister also instructed to convene a meeting through videoconferencing with the heads of different government departments in the first phase to have an interface regarding the implementation of the Act. He said the women and child development department has been directed to issue advertisements for creating awareness about the provisions, facilitation, and penalty clauses of the Act. Gautam added that the department had organised several workshops along with a media campaign and issued regular instructions to all the Delhi government departments, autonomous bodies and private companies for the constitution of the internal committee. All the district magistrates have been instructed to constitute the local committee as a statutory requirement under the Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-govt-to-form-panel-to-check-abuse-at-workplace/articleshow/77187975.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Coimbatore||31 new cases take Nilgiris’ tally to 692||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris recorded 31 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking its tally to 692. According to a health department official, the new cases include 16 women and a one-year-old girl.At least 17 new cases are contacts of earlier positive cases with travel history. Four of them are from Madras Regimental Centre and Defence Service Staff College. They are said to be the contacts of trainees from Kerala and Trichy.Three people from Bitherkadu were tested positive for the virus after visiting Kerala for a funeral. A 45-year-old man, who visited Vellore; a 25-year-old woman, who visited Coimbatore for treatment; and a 27-year-old returnee from Kerala are also among the new cases. Most of the new cases were reported from Maralakambai and Sholur villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/31-new-cases-take-nilgiris-tally-to-692/articleshow/77187973.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid count: Salem stabilizes, Tiupur spikes, Coimbatore sprints||Salem district, which was topping the Covid charts in western Tamil Nadu till a week ago appeared to have stabilized, while Coimbatore caught up fast to become the district with highest Covid incidence. On Sunday, when the region’s Covid death toll touched 100 and the total case count crossed the 10,000-mark, Coimbatore recorded yet another sharp spike with 220 fresh cases. Salem came second with 162 cases, followed by Dharmapuri which had its sharpest spike ever of 131 cases. Other districts in the region saw far lesser number of new cases with Namakkal adding just nine more to its Covid tally. Salem district did have a surge after a long period of lull for more than a week, but still its rate of increase was lower compared to Coimbatore. Salem accounted for 40% of the cases in eight western districts on July 1. But on Sunday, its share came down to 28 %, while the share of Coimbatore has spiked from 24 % at the start of this month to 33 % now. In terms of active cases too, Salem’s contribution to the region’s Covid pool has come down drastically while that of Coimbatore has spiked correspondingly. Health officials in Coimbatore say they are doing all that they can to control the spread. Authorities say that though the numbers appear to go skyward in the district, most of the cases are within containment zones and are a result of diligent tracing and testing. “There is no question of any lapse on our part. We have tightened the borders, we are tracing and testing all the contacts of Covid positive people, we are creating containment zones and now we have extended the weekend lockdown duration also,” a district administration officer said. Salem health officials say that chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami expressed deep concern at the rising number of Covid cases in Salem during his recent visit. Since then the officials have tightened measures. Salem municipal corporation commissioner R Sadeesh said that they are testing more than 700 people every day in Salem city which has a population of about 10 lakh. From 983 ten days ago, Salem’s active case count has come down to 894 as the daily increase in new cases has dropped. Health officials here say that Salem has the highest number of containment zones. “All residents in containment zones are given kabasura kudineer, zinc tablets, arsenic album daily,’’ Sadeesh said. Among other districts, Tirupur, Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri have shown a steady rise in cases while Erode and Namakkal are at the bottom of the list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-count-salem-stabilizes-tiupur-spikes-coimbatore-sprints/articleshow/77187979.cms||Mayilvaganan
July 27, 2020||Amaravati||AP: Teenage girls plough fields like oxen to help parents; Sonu Sood gifts new tractor to family||TIRUPATI: Actor Sonu Sood came to the rescue of a farmer in Chittoor on Sunday, gifting him a tractor after a video of his two daughters pulling a plough through their agricultural fields went viral. The farmer, Nageswara Rao of KV Palli mandal, was forced to till the land without bullocks as he had no money to either buy or rent them. The family’s meagre income suffered a big jolt after the small tea stall that he ran shut down due to Covid-19 pandemic. It was then that the family of four decided to literally take things in their own hands. The young girls took the place of bullocks and parents guided the plough. His elder daughter, V Vennela (17), has completed her Intermediate and the younger one, V Chandana (15), is in class 10. Sood, who was moved by the farmer’s ordeal, responded on his Twitter account on Saturday morning and said, ‘‘Tomorrow morning he will have a pair of oxen. Let the girls focus on their education. Starting tomorrow, two oxen will plough his fields. Farmers are the pride of this nation. Protect them.” Tomorrow morning he will have a pair of ox 🐂 to plough the fields. Let the girls focus on their education.. कल सुब… https://t.co/wQyl3SBVaQ— sonu sood (@SonuSood) 1595742904000But within hours the actor changed his mind to help the family in a better way. ‘‘This family doesn’t deserve a pair of oxen. They deserve a tractor. So sending you one. By evening a tractor will be ploughing your fields. Stay blessed.” This family doesn’t deserve a pair of ox 🐂..They deserve a Tractor. So sending you one. By evening a tractor wi… https://t.co/YqsJb5iDcW— sonu sood (@SonuSood) 1595755478000Nageswara Rao, who got an opportunity to interact with Sonu Sood through a television channel, told TOI, that the actor was a hero in real life. Sood has mostly played villains in films. “While he turned a saviour for migrant workers during the lockdown, he has come to the rescue of my family this time. We are deeply indebted to him. Sonu Sood promised us a tractor and the vehicle was delivered as promised,” he said. “We want to cultivate groundnut in our two acres. Now we will be able to tide over the economic crisis due to Covid-19,” Rao’s daughter Vennela added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/farmer-daughters-till-land-get-tractor-as-gift/articleshow/77188238.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
July 27, 2020||Salem||Covid count: Salem stabilizes, Tiupur spikes, Coimbatore sprints||Salem district, which was topping the Covid charts in western Tamil Nadu till a week ago appeared to have stabilized, while Coimbatore caught up fast to become the district with highest Covid incidence. On Sunday, when the region’s Covid death toll touched 100 and the total case count crossed the 10,000-mark, Coimbatore recorded yet another sharp spike with 220 fresh cases. Salem came second with 162 cases, followed by Dharmapuri which had its sharpest spike ever of 131 cases. Other districts in the region saw far lesser number of new cases with Namakkal adding just nine more to its Covid tally. Salem district did have a surge after a long period of lull for more than a week, but still its rate of increase was lower compared to Coimbatore. Salem accounted for 40% of the cases in eight western districts on July 1. But on Sunday, its share came down to 28 %, while the share of Coimbatore has spiked from 24 % at the start of this month to 33 % now. In terms of active cases too, Salem’s contribution to the region’s Covid pool has come down drastically while that of Coimbatore has spiked correspondingly. Health officials in Coimbatore say they are doing all that they can to control the spread. Authorities say that though the numbers appear to go skyward in the district, most of the cases are within containment zones and are a result of diligent tracing and testing. “There is no question of any lapse on our part. We have tightened the borders, we are tracing and testing all the contacts of Covid positive people, we are creating containment zones and now we have extended the weekend lockdown duration also,” a district administration officer said. Salem health officials say that chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami expressed deep concern at the rising number of Covid cases in Salem during his recent visit. Since then the officials have tightened measures. Salem municipal corporation commissioner R Sadeesh said that they are testing more than 700 people every day in Salem city which has a population of about 10 lakh. From 983 ten days ago, Salem’s active case count has come down to 894 as the daily increase in new cases has dropped. Health officials here say that Salem has the highest number of containment zones. “All residents in containment zones are given kabasura kudineer, zinc tablets, arsenic album daily,’’ Sadeesh said. Among other districts, Tirupur, Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri have shown a steady rise in cases while Erode and Namakkal are at the bottom of the list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/covid-count-salem-stabilizes-tiupur-spikes-coimbatore-sprints/articleshow/77195694.cms||Mayilvaganan
July 27, 2020||Erode||Covid count: Salem stabilizes, Tiupur spikes, Coimbatore sprints||Salem district, which was topping the Covid charts in western Tamil Nadu till a week ago appeared to have stabilized, while Coimbatore caught up fast to become the district with highest Covid incidence. On Sunday, when the region’s Covid death toll touched 100 and the total case count crossed the 10,000-mark, Coimbatore recorded yet another sharp spike with 220 fresh cases. Salem came second with 162 cases, followed by Dharmapuri which had its sharpest spike ever of 131 cases. Other districts in the region saw far lesser number of new cases with Namakkal adding just nine more to its Covid tally. Salem district did have a surge after a long period of lull for more than a week, but still its rate of increase was lower compared to Coimbatore. Salem accounted for 40% of the cases in eight western districts on July 1. But on Sunday, its share came down to 28 %, while the share of Coimbatore has spiked from 24 % at the start of this month to 33 % now. In terms of active cases too, Salem’s contribution to the region’s Covid pool has come down drastically while that of Coimbatore has spiked correspondingly. Health officials in Coimbatore say they are doing all that they can to control the spread. Authorities say that though the numbers appear to go skyward in the district, most of the cases are within containment zones and are a result of diligent tracing and testing. “There is no question of any lapse on our part. We have tightened the borders, we are tracing and testing all the contacts of Covid positive people, we are creating containment zones and now we have extended the weekend lockdown duration also,” a district administration officer said. Salem health officials say that chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami expressed deep concern at the rising number of Covid cases in Salem during his recent visit. Since then the officials have tightened measures. Salem municipal corporation commissioner R Sadeesh said that they are testing more than 700 people every day in Salem city which has a population of about 10 lakh. From 983 ten days ago, Salem’s active case count has come down to 894 as the daily increase in new cases has dropped. Health officials here say that Salem has the highest number of containment zones. “All residents in containment zones are given kabasura kudineer, zinc tablets, arsenic album daily,’’ Sadeesh said. Among other districts, Tirupur, Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri have shown a steady rise in cases while Erode and Namakkal are at the bottom of the list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/covid-count-salem-stabilizes-tiupur-spikes-coimbatore-sprints/articleshow/77195692.cms||Mayilvaganan
July 27, 2020||Agra||50% govt schools in Agra yet to provide certificates of teachers for verification||Agra: Notwithstanding the Uttar Pradesh government’s order to verify the certificates of all teachers working in the state-run as well as state-funded secondary schools by July 31, almost 50% schools have, so far, not provided documents of their teachers to the office of the district inspector of schools for verification. According to sources with the secondary education department, there are 39 state-run and 109 state-funded secondary schools in Agra district., and around 2,300 teachers are posted in these schools.The government order came on July 8 after the cases of the appointment of teachers based on “fake documents” surfaced in several districts. The UP additional chief secretary had ordered the constitution of a district-level committee for the verification of documents of the teachers serving in the state-owned as well as state-funded schools.The committee includes additional district magistrate (city), district inspector of schools (DIOS), principal of government inter-college and principal of a state-funded secondary school, while the deputy director for secondary education was made the nodal officer for the verification process. DIOS, Agra district, Ravindra Kumar had sent letters to the principals, seeking details and academic documents of teachers posted at their schools by July 15 for the verification, but 74 out of the 148 government schools have, so far, not provided the details. “So far, only 50% of the schools have provided the academic details of the teachers on duty. The salary of the principals of those schools which have not provided the details will be withheld till they provide the required details and documents,” warned the DIOS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/50-govt-schools-in-agra-yet-to-provide-certificates-of-teachers-for-verification/articleshow/77186572.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||CB to summon top Air India officials||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The crime branch probe into fake document case involving Swapna Suresh against an Air India officer has gathered momentum following the gold smuggling case probe. The crime branch has decided to summon Air India executive director (disinvestment) Uma Maheshwari and other ICC members to Thiruvananthapuram to take their statements in the fake document case. This will be the second time the crime branch is summoning top officials of Air India in the case. Earlier, Maheshwari, Sathiya Subramaniam, general manager (personnel), Chennai, RMS Rajen, assistant general manager (retd) and Leena Vineeth, manager, Thiruvananthapuram, were summoned by the crime branch in January this year for recording their statements. “They will have to be summoned again since there are some missing links. We have to get more clarity on the earlier statements they gave us,” said B Anil Kumar, DSP, crime branch, who is probing the case. Swapna had created a fake sexual harassment complaint against an Air India officer and it was probed by the internal committee (ICC) team headed by Maheshwari which had upheld the complaint. The investigation revealed that the ICC had recorded the statement of an impersonated witness, without checking the witness’ identity. The 16 women named in the complaint had revealed during investigation that the ICC of Air India neither contacted then nor recorded their statements. However, high court had found the sexual harassment complaint itself as fake and asked the crime branch to register a case against Swapna and conduct further investigation. Swapna, who was a former employee of AISATS, and Binoy Jacob, former vice-president of AISATS, are the accused in this case. “As part of the investigation, the earlier officer who was probing the case had sent several letters to Maheshwari and her team members to appear before the crime branch for recording statements. However, they did not turn up and had approached the high court against this. But later the high court urged them to appear before the probe team to record their statements,” said Kumar. The complaint was forged against the Air India officer to wreak vengeance since he exposed financial irregularities at Thiruvananthapuram airport. Later, CBI found the evasion of royalty and directed AISATS to pay an amount of Rs 2,60,99,727 to Airports Authority of India, which was paid by AISATS in March 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cb-to-summon-top-air-india-officials/articleshow/77186575.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Goa||Mission Rabies on toes during lockdown period||Panaji: In April, a time when Goans were staying indoors in their fight against the coronavirus, volunteers of Mission Rabies were busy containing the rabies virus. The annual dog vaccination drive was suspended under the lockdown. However, an emergency ‘ring vaccination’ was conducted in Pernem following the incidence of positive rabies cases. “It is possible that due to the lockdown, dogs are migrating greater distances in search of food and thus increasing the spread of rabies,” Mission Rabies wrote in its report. “Securing Goa’s borders to the import of dogs and commencing vaccination of a ‘buffer zone’ in the panchayats immediately bordering Goa is now a top priority,” the report read. Besides Pernem, two cases were reported in Mapusa and a rabid cow in Bicholim that month. Following a strict Covid-19 protocol, the teams in Pernem vaccinated 2,935 dogs in May. Three more rabid dogs were identified and safely removed from the community. Out of the three positive cases, two were from Pernem and one was over the Goa-Maharashtra border. A week after the nationwide lockdown in March, over 100 feeder passes were issued across Goa to animal NGOs, including Mission Rabies. They were provided with travel passes by the department of animal husbandry and veterinary services after matters related to animal rescue and veterinary care were identified as an essential service. From injured animals to maggot infested dogs, volunteers of Mission Rabies have rescued various animals during the lockdown, the three-month report (March, April and May) reveals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mission-rabies-on-toes-during-lockdown-period/articleshow/77187988.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Jamshedpur||Steel City admin wants hotels to open doors to Covid-19 patients||Jamshedpur: Amid a surge in the number of cases of Covid-19, the district administration sought cooperation from the hospitality industry to accommodate asymptomatic infected persons at hotels. The Jamshedpur Hoteliers Association (JHA) on the other hand took time to hold meetings with hotel owners and said would get back in a few days. After a late start, East Singhbhum is just second to Ranchi in terms of number of cases at 1,306, of which 868 are still active. The district has also recorded 19 deaths. Working on the plan to expand the number of covid care centres, deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar urged hoteliers to cooperate with the administration in opening hotel rooms for asymptomatic patients. Kumar said, “In the wake of increasing numbers of the active cases, there is a need to keep additional rooms ready for asymptomatic patients. Hotels that have relatively more number of rooms shall be identified as isolation centres.” JHA functionary Anil Khemka said, ““Multiple issues are involved in opening doors for covid-infected persons such as safety of hotel staff. We are consulting the staff and will get back to the administration with a response in the next three to four days.” Khemka also informed that though opening rooms for covid-affected persons will bring revenue to the hotels at a time when the hospitality industry is down, there are challenges too and they would like to take time for discussions. “The district administration is looking for hotels that have relatively more rooms. There are 15 hotels in the city that have more than 30 rooms,” Khemka said, adding that a few hotels in the city are already functioning as paid quarantine centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/steel-city-admin-wants-hotels-to-open-doors-to-covid-19-patients/articleshow/77187648.cms||B Sridhar
July 27, 2020||Ranchi||Minor girl from Delhi raped in Ranchi||RANCHI: A minor girl (12) was allegedly raped by a youth after she left her home in Bariatu area of Ranchi on Saturday evening, police said, adding that they have arrested two persons in connection to the crime. The girl, who otherwise lives with her maternal aunt in Delhi, had recently come to her parents’ home here. Police said the girl left the house as she wanted to go back to New Delhi. Police said that after leaving her parents’ residence, the girl sought lift for the railway station from an unknown person, later identified as Ankit Mishra (26). They added that on the pretext of dropping her at the railway station, Ankit took her to a house owned by his friend, Anand Mohan (29), and raped the girl. The girl’s parents approached the local police station after they failed to trace her. The girl had left her home without informing her parents and had also switched off her mobile phone. Police said that the girl was probably feeling neglected at her parents’ home. Sadar DSP Deepak Pandey said, “Based on the statement given by the girl, police have nabbed the main accused, Ankit Mishra, along with his accomplice, Anand Mohan.” Police rescued the girl after a night-long operation. “We got the clue about her location from her aunt in Delhi, as the girl had called her up from the flat where she was held captive,” police said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/minor-girl-from-delhi-raped-in-ranchi/articleshow/77187621.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Ranchi||JMM distributes dry ration in Dumka, ‘violates Covid norms’||Dumka: JMM functionaries in Dumka drew the opposition’s flak on Sunday when they distributed dry ration to the needy at a bus stand here ‘without maintaining social distancing norms’. Former minister and BJP veteran Lois Marandi shared videos and photographs of the distribution on social media and demanded action against JMM. She said, “The district administration did not let us distribute Modi Aahar (BJP’s dry ration packets) in the past out of fear of a gathering taking place amid the pandemic. But now JMM is blatantly violating the social distancing norms. When will the administration take action?” On the other hand, Dumka SDO (civil) Maheshwar Mahto said, “I learnt about the camp through social media but when we reached the venue, it was empty. Appropriate action will be taken if we find out that violations of Covid-19 protocols took place.” Meanwhile, a JMM functionary said that distributing dry ration among the poor is a brainchild of Basan Soren, chief minister Hemant Soren’s younger brother, who is projecting himself as a probable candidate for the upcoming Dumka by-poll. The ration packets had the pictures of Hemant and JMM president Shibu Soren’s pasted on top. “The packet is for those who were finding it difficult to manage two square meals a day amid the lockdown. It contains 5kg rice, 1kg salt and 2kg potatoes,” the party worker further said. The Dumka unit of the CITU-affiliated Jharkhand Parivahan Majdoor Union had been demanding relief package from the state government by ‘citing job losses of hundreds amid the lockdown’. District secretary of the union Amresh Kumar Singh, however, said, “We were not informed by JMM about today's ration distribution. Those who collected the packets today belong to a different union perhaps.” He added, “We have been demanding since the last three months for a proper relief package from the state government but it has all been in vain.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jmm-distributes-dry-ration-in-dumka-violates-covid-norms/articleshow/77187659.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Ranchi||VHP collects soil from Birsa’s village for Ram Temple in Ayodhya||Ranchi: As the Yogi Adityanath government gears up for the ground-breaking ceremony of Ram Temple in Ayodhya, a delegation of Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) from Jharkhand left for Uttar Pradesh on Sunday with soil and water collected from various places of religious significance across the state. VHP functionaries left for Ayodhya by road from Ranchi. They claimed to have collected soil from 11,000 Sarna sthals, 100 gurudwaras, 11 Buddhist worship sites and Ulihatu, the birthplace of tribal revolutionary and state icon Birsa Munda. “Water from 51 sacred rivers in Jharkhand has also been collected. The water and soil will depict the national unity and social diversity of our country ,” the organizing secretary of VHP in Jharkhand, Keshav Raju, said in a statement. The ground-breaking ceremony is likely to be held on August 5. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and UP CM Yogi Adityanath are expected to attend the ceremony. The VHP on Sunday also urged the residents of Jharkhand to make donations for the construction of the temple and urged saints, seers and priests to organize special puja and offerings at their respective temples, ashramas to mark the occasion of ground-breaking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/vhp-collects-soil-from-birsas-village-for-ram-temple-in-ayodhya/articleshow/77187983.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Ranchi||BSF jawan dies at BGH, kin allege negligence||Bokaro: A Border Security Force (BSF) jawan died allegedly after a delay in getting his Covid-19 report and inadequate treatment at the Covid ward of Bokaro General Hospital (BGH) on Sunday. Relatives of the jawan, U K Sharma, alleged medical negligence but BGH refuted the charge. Sharma was admitted to BGH on July 22 after he had an infection in the lower respiratory tract. He also had diabetes mellitus and hypertension. His samples were taken on July 23 and the doctors allegedly kept waiting for his report before beginning the treatment. As per BGH norms, a patient has to remain in the Covid ward till the test reports arrive after which they will be referred to a specific ward. As a result, senior doctors avoid visiting patients, who are often left at the mercy of junior doctors and nurses. Sharma breathed his last at 3.20am. The brother of the deceased, Manoj, said, “My brother died due to lack of proper treatment.” Notably, Sharma, a resident of Sector 9 of Bokaro Township who was posted in the 8th Battalion of BSF in West Bengal, was the second patient to die in the ward on the same night. Manoj said, “My brother was suffering and returned home due to health problems. When his condition deteriorated, we admitted him to BGH on July 22. Though the doctors had started medication, they were waiting for his Covid test reports to begin proper treatment after shifting him to the related ward.” Sharma’s wife Kalpana alleged that the junior doctor were often casual during their rounds. “They didn’t go through his case history properly. My husband’s condition deteriorated late at night and despite repeated requests, no senior doctor came. He died in pain.” Chas SDO Shashi Prakash Singh said they have directed BGH to conduct a probe. He said, “I called the director (medical services) of BGH, Dr A K Singh, and asked him to be more proactive in dealing with patients. I have also directed him to inquire into the incident and take action against those found guilty.” Meanwhile, BSL chief of communication Manikant Dhan denied any negligence on their part. “There is no question of negligence. The deceased was suffering from lower respiratory tract infection, diabetes mellitus and hypertension (drug defaulter). He was on relevant medications (antibiotic, anti-diabetic and anti-hypertensive drugs). The doctor visited both in the morning and evening (last visit at 7.30pm). He turned critical at 3am and expired due to cardio-respiratory failure.” Notably, Bokaro registered more deaths of suspected Covid-19 patients than those who tested positive. In the past 20 days, more than seven patients died in the Covid ward due to a delay in reports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bsf-jawan-dies-at-bgh-kin-allege-negligence/articleshow/77187974.cms||Divy Khare
July 27, 2020||Ranchi||State sees first cop casualty, 508 fresh cases take tally past 8,000||Ranchi: A Covid-19 positive police sub-inspector died on Sunday, becoming the first casualty of the viral infection among cops who are on frontline duty in the state. The 54-year-old policeman had tested positive on July 20 and died during treatment at Paras hospital around 2 pm. Personnel the police department have demanded Rs 50 lakh insurance for the kin of the deceased. Meanwhile, the state continued to register a spike in the number of cases with 508 fresh infections reported in the last 24 hours of which 457 were reported on Sunday and 51 were detected late on Saturday night. Two other patients also died on Sunday — one each from Koderma and Palamu, taking the toll in the state to 85. “An 85-year-old resident of Domchach in Koderma and a 46-year-old resident of Kund Muhalla in Daltonganj died on Sunday. Both patients had several comorbidities and had developed pneumonia,”a health department official said. The cop's death was however not included in the state Covid bulletin. With 457 samples out of a total of 5,339 testing positive on Sunday, the growth rate of the disease stood at 8.5%. Ranchi continued to lead the districts reporting maximum number of fresh infections on Sunday at 96 cases. The other districts with high number of infections are Koderma (58), Gumla (38) West Singhbhum (34), Hazaribag (33), Lohardaga (29) while East Singhbhum and Chatra with 28 cases each. Gumla, West Singhbhum and Lohardaga reported a spike after almost a week. Soon after the death of the cop, the Jharkhand Police Association, led by its president Yogendra Singh, marched to the private hospital where he died and reiterated their demand for Rs 50 lakh insurance for all cops on Covid duty. They also demanded immediate release of the amount to the kin of the deceased. Talking to TOI, Singh said, “We have already met DGP M V Rao and had voiced our concern in this regard last week but the state government hasn’t taken a call on it yet. On one hand, they call us corona warriors and when we need their support, they are mum. If a decision is not taken in this regard immediately, we will be forced to protest.” With 457 cases reported on Sunday, the state crossed 8,000-mark with a cumulative caseload of 8349 cases. Of them, 4,560 are active while 3,704 have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-sees-first-cop-casualty-508-fresh-cases-take-tally-past-8000/articleshow/77187929.cms||Gaurav Pandey
July 27, 2020||Ranchi||Surge in cases leads to ‘partial vacation’ in HC||Ranchi: Alarmed with the increase in the number of employees testing positive for Covid-19, the Jharkhand high court has been put on ‘partial vacation’ by the orders of Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan here on Sunday. A notification has been issued informing that the court will be on partial vacation from Monday till August 6 owing to the pandemic. The notice further states that since the start of the annual summer vacation of the high court was deferred from May 18 to June 6, the present vacation will be a partial one. During the partial vacation, the Jharkhand high court will operate from 11am to 1pm. There will be fewer number of judges on the roster during the period compared to normal working days. As many as 168 employees of the high court had earlier written a letter addressed to the Chief Justice requesting him to shut down the court for a fortnight. A senior judicial officer said a full court meeting was held among the judges of the high court on July 25, after which the decision to suspend the court was taken. As many as 16 employees of the Jharkhand high court are infected with the coronavirus. Meanwhile, Navin Kumar of Advocates Association, Jharkhand high court said the decision was crucial to break the chain of the spread of the disease. “The order of the Chief Justice to close down the court is a positive step. High court employees have tested positive and everyone is at risk of contacting the disease — whether they are judges, advocates, clerks, policemen or other employees of the high court,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/surge-in-cases-leads-to-partial-vacation-in-hc/articleshow/77187671.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Jamshedpur||Mother rides 1,800 km on two-wheeler from Pune to meet 5-year-old son in Jamshedpur||JAMSHEDPUR: With no trains plying during the Unlock phase and unable to afford a flight, a 26-year-old woman drove a two-wheeler along with her friend from Pune to Jamshedpur, a distance of 1,800km, to meet her sick five-year-old son. Sonia Das, a resident of Bhatia Basti in Kadma, became restless when her husband, Abhishek Ghosh, called up and said their son, Dhruv Jyoti, fell ill and developed fever. She immediately tagged the Jharkhand government on the official Twitter handle and asked for help but got no response. She also rang up the Maharashtra helpline number without any success. Sonia then decided to drive her old scooter to her hometown. Fortunately, her friend Sabia Bano, a resident of Pune, decided to travel with her. On Monday morning, Sonia and Sabia began their arduous journey and arrived in the Steel City on Friday. Soon after their arrival, they were detained for a few hours by the health authorities for Covid-19 test. “We conducted rapid antigen tests, we let them go after they tested negative and asked them to stay in home quarantine," DSP (Headquarters II) Arvind Kumar said. He also said dry ration for 30 days has been provided to the family. Talking to TOI, Sonia said, “Passenger trains are not running between Tatanagar and Pune or Mumbai. Moreover, my husband and I do not have sufficient money to buy an air ticket. With no help coming from Jharkhand and Maharashtra governments, I decided to drive as I was extremely worried about my son.” With tears welling up in her eyes, Sonia said, "Thankfully, we did not face any problems and spent the nights in petrol pumps and dhabas. I am now desperate to hug my child. I am hoping that the quarantine period is over soon." “I am thankful to the authorities for conducting the Covid test within a short time,” Sonia said, adding that her son is recuperating. Sonia had been working with a small-time production house in Mumbai and travelled on the scooter during work. She, however, lost her job during the lockdown. When all options ran out, she went to Pune where Sabia stays to look for a job as her husband’s income had also dried up. For the last three months, she was unable to pay the rent. Her friend Sabia added, “Apprehending the risk she was going to face while travelling alone, I decided to accompany Sonia. Initially, I was not convinced with the idea of a scooter ride but with no option available, I chose to go along. We stayed at 10 petrol pumps and two dhabas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/mother-rides-1800-km-on-two-wheeler-from-pune-to-meet-5-yr-old-son/articleshow/77187953.cms||B Sridhar
July 27, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan may revise tender process for MGNREGA||JAIPUR: Having received proposals and demands from the sarpanches, the state’s rural development department may consider giving authority to the gram panchayats to float tenders for procuring material component under MGNREGA. Currently, the tender process for procurement of material component is carried out at the block or panchayat samiti level. “A few sarpanches demanded a change in the process of procurement of material components in MGNREGA. They have demanded that the tendering should be done at the gram panchayat level, instead of the panchayat samiti level, which is currently in operation,” said an official in the rural development and panchyati raj department. “The existing process has been mandated by the government of India (GOI). So, it is required to be seen whether the changes can be made without violating the GOI circular. The discussions are at the preliminary stage and clearance has to be given in this regard by GOI. We also have to see whether it is desirable or not. For now, the existing process will continue,” said the official. Moreover, the decision has to be taken at the chief secretary and additional chief secretary level before seeking a clearance from the central government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajasthan-may-revise-tender-process-for-mgnrega/articleshow/77188517.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: Six, including two doctors, arrested for selling baby||VISAKHAPATNAM: Vizag city police on Sunday arrested six persons for allegedly selling off a new-born baby boy to a couple in Kolkata. Two of the six arrested are doctors. Those arrested have been identified as: Dr Patchipala Namrata, managing director of Universal Srusti Hospital in Vizag, Dr Tirmala, who worked at Universal Srusti Hospital, K Venkata Lakshmi (an Asha worker), B Annapurna (Asha worker), A Ramakrishna and L Chandra Mohan. Vizag police commissioner RK Meena said that a widow from rural parts of Visakhapatnam had an affair and became pregnant. Upon coming to know of her pregnancy through her agent Ramakrishna, Dr Namrata, asked the woman to come to her hospital for delivery. The woman gave birth in March and the doctor along with her associates sold the baby to a couple in Kolkata. However, an Anganwadi teacher named G Sarojini had come to know about the widow’s pregnancy. When the widow returned to her home, Sarojini asked her about the baby. When the woman could not offer a satisfactory answer, Sarojini grew suspicious and alerted Childline and ICDS officials. While Childline personnel were probing the matter, Chandra Mohan— an associate of Dr Namrata, brought the baby back from Kolkata and handed him over to Childline on March 20. The baby boy has been put in custody of Sishu Gruha in Vizag. City police chief RK Meena said that the police investigated the case on the basis of a complaint lodged by the baby’s mother. Investigation revealed that Dr Namrata used to run a hospital called Srusti Test Tube Baby. She later changed the name of the hospital to Universal Srusti Fertility and Research Centre in 2018, after being involved with two criminal cases. She opened branches in Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Bhubaneswar and Kolkata. Dr Namrata used to conduct free medical camps in rural areas in north Andhra Pradesh and Odisha allegedly in an attempt to identify unwanted pregnancies through local agents and Asha workers. Upon finding women with unwanted pregnancies, she would offer to deliver the babies free of cost if they chose to donate their new-borns. Upon procuring such babies, the doctor used to sell the babies to rich childless couples through agents. She also generated fake birth certificates of the babies. In this case, the baby boy was named Siyan Roy, the city police chief said. “We are investigating the case through multiple angles to find the number of babies sold by Dr Namrata. We arrested her in Karnataka and will soon arrest the Kolkata-based couple who purchased the baby,” commissioner RK Meena added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/six-including-two-doctors-arrested-for-selling-baby/articleshow/77186889.cms||Nalla.Babu
July 27, 2020||Goa||Compact residential settings, industrial units are new hotspots||Margao: Compact residential settings and industrial estates are turning out to be areas of concern for the South Goa district administration in the task of managing the pandemic. The Cuncolim industrial estate housing several steel units employing hundreds of migrant workers, and compact residential area of Gogol housing board, Margao, are currently under the radar of the South Goa district administration following a spurt in cases. After several employees from several industrial units in the Cuncolim industrial estate tested positive, the district administration has directed all steel industries operating in Cuncolim to get their workers tested. “We are keeping a strict watch on all the 6-7 steel units operational in the Cuncolim industrial estate. We have directed the owners of the units to allow only those workers who have tested negative into factory premises. We have collected the addresses of all workers of the industrial estate. This will enable us to quickly trace the location of any particular worker if and when he tests positive,” Salcete mamlatdar Prataprao Gaonkar told TOI. Once a person tests positive, the district administration keeps a tab on his movements aided by digital technology until he is shifted to the Covid hospital/care centre by the health authorities. Sources said the district administration has veered around to the view that instead of ordering blanket closure of the industries, which would invariably affect the economy, it would be pragmatic to allow the units to function but with all precautionary measures in place and a constant watch by the authorities. “We have imposed several conditions on all the industrial units. We are ensuring that there is 100% compliance with the directions,” Gaonkar said. The authorities are also keeping a close watch on the emerging situation in the Gogol housing board area. Health department officials said that six members from two families got infected after they came in contact with a patient from a neighbouring house, who later succumbed to the infection. “We have taken 40 throat swab samples for testing — 30 from the immediate first level contacts and 10 randomly from a wider area. The reports are awaited,” a health official said. A decision about imposing any containment measures will be taken based on the reports. Though there’s a clamour for mass testing in the affected areas, the district administration has decided to go by the rule book in order to ease the pressure on testing centres. An official explained the strategy adopted in the case of Arlem, Raia, which has now been declared a containment zone: “Once three positive cases were detected from a slum-like area in Arlem, the health authorities swung into action and drew 30 samples at random from a population of around 200. As 18 tested positive, the area was declared a containment zone.” The authorities have also adopted a pay-and-test rule for industrial units willing to get their employees tested. An official said, “The industrial firms have been directed to pay for the tests of their employees. However, if anybody tests positive, it is the obligation of the health authorities to do the contact tracing and testing exercise.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/compact-residential-settings-industrial-units-are-new-hotspots/articleshow/77187618.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||1 Maoist killed in exchange of fire with security forces||VISAKHAPATNAM: An exchange of fire between Maoists and security forces on Sunday led to the death of a Maoist. The exchange of fire took place in the forests under Annavaram police station limits in Visakhapatnam Agency along the Andhra-Odisha border (AOB). Visakhapatnam (rural) SP B Krishna Rao said that the exchange lasted 30 minutes and one Maoist was gunned down. No casualties or injuries were reported from the side of the police, he added. Although the police are yet to identify the slain Maoist, they suspect that he is Pangi Daya, a member of Pedabayalu Dalam of CPI (Maoist), a resident of Vakapalle village in G Madugula mandal in Visakhapatnam Agency. This is the third such incident within a week. On July 19, an exchange of fire took place between police and Maoists under Pedabayalu police station limits where a senior Maoist leader was injured. On July 22, a constable of an anti-Maoist force was injured in a landmine blast. Owing to the sudden rise in such incidents, security forces have ramped up combing operations in the area. There are also reports that Maoist top guns including Akkiraju Haragopal, a central committee member of CPI (Maoist), Chalapati and Aruna are present in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/1-maoist-killed-in-exchange-of-fire-with-security-forces/articleshow/77186907.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Goa||At 230, state sees highest recoveries, 173 new cases||Panaji: For a third day in a row on Saturday Goa saw the number of Covid patients declared cured exceed the total of new cases. There were 230 recoveries, the highest tally since the pandemic and 175 new cases reported while active cases stood at 1,549. Ponda, which have witnessed a rise in infections over the past few weeks, reported 29 cases. A health officer said while cases have been reported from various parts of Ponda, the spike was owing to 11 cases detected in a joint family. All 29 new patients, she said were transferred to covid care centre and none opted to home quarantine. People are yet to fully understand the concept of home quarantine and new patients were explained what it means to be in home quarantine allowing them to make a choice. Margao reported 13 new cases and crossed 100-mark on Sunday. Another health official said they are concerned about the spread of infections in the commercial town. “The pattern emerging in Margao is like Mangor Hill,” Vasco,” he said. Mapusa also reported six cases during the day, including one from Aldona. Chief officer of Mapusa Municipal Council (MMC), Kabir Shirgaonkar said, four new cases were linked to the man from Khorlim who died of Covid last week.” Their areas of concern are the congested areas of Karaswada and Cunchelim, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/at-230-state-sees-highest-recoveries-173-new-cases/articleshow/77187645.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: 101-yr-old woman recovers from Covid-19, discharged||TIRUPATI: Age is only a number and 101-year-old Mangamma has proved that. A fortnight ago Mangamma, a resident of Yerramitta locality in Tirupati, was admitted to Sri Padmavathi state Covid hospital. Since then, she fought the infection and recovered and was discharged on Saturday, lending hope to other Covid-19 patients. Given her age, medical superintendent Dr R Ram appointed an attendant Manjula to take care of her needs. During the last two weeks, Mangamma responded well to the treatment and eventually recovered completely and was discharged from the hospital on Saturday morning. Speaking to TOI about her recovery process, Dr Ram said the centenarian had no comorbidities. ‘‘Her case should be an inspiration for all. Staying away from her family in isolation at her age did not affect her morale. She developed a good bond with Manjula and she strictly followed our medical advice during the entire treatment process”, added Dr Ram. Meanwhile, Tirupati SP Avula Ramesh Reddy visited Mangamma at her residence in Yerramitta on Sunday and assured her of all the support from the police department. Speaking to the reporters, Ramesh Reddy said, ‘‘People should stop panicking. All precautions should be taken to prevent contracting the virus in the first place and if one does, the patients should confidently undergo the treatment as the infection is curable with proper medical attention.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/101-yr-old-recovers-from-covid-19-discharged/articleshow/77186917.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
July 27, 2020||Goa||Chimbel model can be emulated to contain Covid: St Cruz MLA||Panaji: Strict police vigil in the Xirent area of Chimbel and declaration of micro-containment zone helped bring Covid-19 cases down to zero, said St Cruz MLA Antonio ‘Tony’ Fernandes. With parts of Indranagar sealed in a similar manner in Chimbel, the MLA said that mass testing, taking precautions and practising social distancing can help these wards and other areas in the state bring down cases. “We have adopted a very good model in Chimbel but the people are cooperative which is how we have brought the number down to zero. This is the only solution till the vaccine comes. The Xirent Chimbel model can be emulated anywhere in Goa to bring down cases,” Fernandes said. As of July 25, there are a total of 1,606 active Covid cases in Goa, of which 61 are in Chimbel. What worked in Xirent is that the area was declared a micro-containment zone and strict vigil was kept with the help of the police and the block level officers (BLO) of the jurisdiction. “We have not allowed anyone to step out of their homes. They have been given all the essentials at their doorstep,” Fernandes said. People of the village were also alert after our volunteers asked them to follow government protocol, he added. Till the vaccine comes, Fernandes said that safety measures and precautions are needed. “Whoever has tested positive but are asymptomatic must stay indoors. People must not come out of their homes unnecessarily, not just in Chimbel but across the state,” Fernandes said. “People must voluntarily carry out a Covid test of themselves. Once mass testing is done, then people know what their status is. People must properly wear a mask, wash their hands frequently, sanitize their hands and maintain social distance.” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/chimbel-model-can-be-emulated-to-contain-covid-st-cruz-mla/articleshow/77187649.cms||Nida Sayed
July 27, 2020||Vijayawada||Two 7-year-old boys drown in well in Chittoor||TIRUPATI: Two children drowned in an agricultural well in the outskirts of Kappatlabanda village in V Kota mandal in Chittoor district on Sunday. The deceased have been identified as Kiran Kumar and his cousin Manjunath. Both the children were seven years old. Police said that the boys had jumped into an agricultural well to play but did not know swimming. When they realised the danger, they cried out for help. But by the time their family members could rescue them, the boys drowned. Locals informed the police and the police reached the spot and fished out the bodies. A case has been registered and further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/two-7-year-old-boys-drown-in-well-in-chittoor/articleshow/77186928.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Vijayawada||NTRUHS’ counselling decision irks students||Amaravati: The NTR University of Health Sciences (NTRUHS) has decided to not allow students who have already got seats in the first and second round of counselling to participate in the final mop-up round of postgraduate admissions. The university, which released the vacancy list on Sunday, has set 1pm Monday as the deadline to exercise the web options. Surprisingly, Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences (KNRUHS) of Telangana has allowed all the candidates to exercise the option. Students alleged that NTR health university’s decision will only help candidates with lower ranks get better seats. Sources said several students who are at the top in the merit list are believed to have blocked seats in the most in-demand branches like general medicine in AP’s private colleges. However, they finally opted for seats in premier institutions such as Osmania Medical College. Although, there is nothing wrong in opting for a better college, it is, however, not clear as to why they have deliberately blocked seats in private colleges in AP and left them unoccupied in the second round. Since the top rankers blocked some good branches, the rankers next in the line are forced to go for other streams, including non-clinical ones. Sources said about 111 seats were listed as ‘not reported quota’ and are up for grabs on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ntruhs-counselling-decision-irks-students/articleshow/77186965.cms||Samdani MN
July 27, 2020||Goa||Another Baina ward partly sealed||Vasco: After a part of ward no. 7 of the Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC) near the Hanuman temple in Baina was sealed on Wednesday, the adjoining ward no. 8 was also partially sealed on Sunday morning. The entire area spanning from Shafi Masjid to Hanuman temple is being monitored after a spike in Covid cases in the area. Councillor of ward no. 8, Murari Bandekar, said that there were seven cases alone near Shafi Masjid. “The authorities are finding it difficult to contain the virus as houses are in proximity here. There are more than 600-odd houses and 3,500 people in ward no. 8,” Bandekar said. In ward no. 7, barricades have been erected near Ashirwad building, Canara Bank, Rukmini building and at entry points leading to the beach. Meanwhile, there have been no more cases reported in ward no. 3 at Sada after it was sealed on July 21. The councillor representing the ward, Shashikant Parab, said, “There were 15 cases reported in my ward at Goa Rehabilitation Colony, after which it was sealed. We are still monitoring the situation in the colony which has a population of around 1,200 people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/another-baina-ward-partly-sealed/articleshow/77187662.cms||Ruvina Khan
July 27, 2020||Goa||‘Immunity boosting pills not beneficial’||Saligao: The North Goa Congress Committee on Saturday said that the immunity boosting pills being distributed are not beneficial as cases are showing no signs of dipping. Congress demanded that the chief secretary monitor the situation closely and take corrective measures. North Goa Congress Committee president Vijay Bhike hit out at the BJP government over the alleged non-procurement of ventilators. “When patients are in a critical state, there is need of ventilators. The government had promised to procure more ventilators, so when are these ventilators going to come?” Bhike said. President of the party’s Porvorim block, Shankar Phadte, said “the government has failed to protect the lives of the teachers by forcing them to go to schools”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/immunity-boosting-pills-not-beneficial/articleshow/77187669.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Srikakulam ready to test 5,000 per day||VISAKHAPATNAM: While appealing to people to postpone public gatherings until the Covid-19 pandemic is brought under control, Srikakulam district collector J Nivas, in a vein of humour, said that people should not gift their near and dear ones Covid-19 by attending marriages or other celebrations. Nivas, on Sunday, stressed on the importance of testing and said that people should get themselves tested as soon as symptoms appeared. The collector assured that Covid-19 patients would not be subject to any discrimination and that people who indulge in the same will be dealt with strictly. The collector informed that the district already has 2,000 beds ready at Covid Care Centres and 3,000 more beds will be arranged within the next few days. He further said that 5,000 tests will be conducted in the district every day from July 27 as more machines become operational. “Nearly 10,000 rapid kits are coming to the district shortly,” Nivas told TOI. On Sunday, he inspected the Covid Care Centre at Dr BR Ambedkar University and Sri Venkateswara and Vaishnavi colleges at Etcherla. During the visit, he instructed authorities to ensure adequate beds, toilets and provision of drinking water. There are currently 4,417 Covid-19 cases in Srikakulam district. The Rajiv Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) has been converted into a dedicated Covid hospital. Collector J Nivas requested people to support the government in preventing further spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/skulam-ready-to-test-5000-per-day/articleshow/77186973.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
July 27, 2020||Visakhapatnam||‘Time to relocate state human rights commission to AP’||VISAKHAPATNAM: Lawyers in Visakhapatnam have once again raised the demand to shift Andhra Pradesh State Human Rights Commission (APSHRC) to Andhra Pradesh from Hyderabad. The lawyers want the commission office to be set up either in Visakhapatnam or Vijayawada. Lawyers said that there have been growing instances of human rights violations during the Covid-19 pandemic and that there is an urgent need to shift the APSHRC to Andhra Pradesh to deal with grievances of the people of the state. The Forum of Legal Professionals (FLP) on Sunday demanded that the state government take immediate steps to relocate APSHRC. FLP members said that almost all government institutions which were located in Hyderabad before bifurcation have been shifted but not the human rights commission. They further said that there is an acute shortage of manpower in the commission and the post of the chairman is also lying vacant. FLP president and senior advocate Kuppili Muralidhar said that there is a greater need to sensitise people and law enforcement agencies towards human rights. “There are growing instances of violation of human rights during the pandemic. For instance, we frequently hear of people being denied a dignified cremation or burial. Further, some hospitals refuse to admit patients and there is discrimination against Covid-19 patients. It is for this reason that the APSHRC must be moved to Andhra Pradesh. People should not have to travel to Telangana to get be heard, Muralidhar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/time-to-relocate-state-human-rights-commission-to-ap/articleshow/77186984.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Goa||Govt working on action plan to take care of homeless||Panaji: The state government is working on an action plan to provide relief and support to the homeless, particularly in towns such as Margao, government officials said. An inter-department level meeting is scheduled to identify measures for the benefit of street dwellers. The move comes after a couple of homeless individuals contracted Covid-19 in Margao and succumbed to disease. The heads of departments met on Friday to discuss possible measures to prevent a further spread of the virus among the homeless. “There were deliberations at the department level and the government is coming up with an action plan,” an IAS officer said. Officials said that though municipal councils have been sensitised to the issue, efforts to screen the homeless and prevent them from contracting the virus would require coordinated efforts. Efforts would be required at the collectorate level if concrete steps have to be taken, officials said. Beggars and homeless persons are vulnerable to the pandemic and residents of Margao have called on the state to provide them with shelter after testing them. An official also said that municipal bodies would be asked to try and provide the homeless with meals. “There is a suggestion to shift the homeless to shelters but bringing all of them in one location could also lead to a spread. Given the space required, the revenue department, transport department, directorate of health services, directorate of municipal administration and even NGOs will have to be roped in,” the bureaucrat said. Leader of the ppposition leader and Margao MLA Digambar Kamat had met south Goa collector to demand that the the homeless should be put in the shelter homes, which were being used for migrant workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-working-on-action-plan-to-take-care-of-homeless/articleshow/77187672.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Goa||Sort out Covid matters with Gomes, says HC||Panaji: The high court of Bombay at Goa has asked the health secretary to convene a meeting with head of the medicine department of GMC, Dr Edwin Gomes within a week to sort out the issues relating to the pandemic situation and his communication to the government seeking relieving orders to his team from responsibilities at the Covid-19 hospital due to mental exhaustion. The HC passed the order on a petition filed by Dr Gomes’ wife Ubaldina Noronha. She stated that her husband worked for 94 days without shifts and break at the ESI Hospital, Margao. She approached the court after her husband tested positive in July. During the hearing, the petitioner’s lawyer Joseph Vaz and advocate general Devidas Pangam said that it will be in public interest if the secretary health and Dr Gomes have a meeting to discuss certain issues relating to Covid-19 situation, including the issue raised by Dr Gomes in his communications to the government. In June, Dr Gomes wrote to the government and pointed out that he and his team were mentally exhausted and sought appointment of another team . A division bench comprising Justices Mahesh Sonak and M S Jawalkar observed, “We trust that both, Dr Gomes as well as the health secretary will approach this matter from this perspective and refrain from treating this matter as some adversarial litigation. Taking into consideration the yeoman services rendered by Dr Gomes during this difficult period and the valuable experience he has gained, we are sure that his suggestions will be most valuable to the state administration, which is also engaged very actively in combating this unfortunate situation.” The court opined that these matters can be sorted out at the earliest so that the focus is not shifted and continues to be on combating the unfortunate situation. The meeting will be by video conference. In her petition, Noronha stated that her 58-year-old husband with a pre-existing condition of hypertension, who is a high risk person according to WHO, was granted leave of three weeks on the condition that he returns to the Covid hospital. She also said that not a single head of department of GMC consisting of 27 departments had been appointed on duty at the Covid hospital. She said that the plea was filed not to restrain the respondents from placing Dr Gomes at the Covid hospital, but to ensure that the authorities follow the protocols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sort-out-covid-matters-with-gomes-says-hc/articleshow/77187680.cms||---
July 27, 2020||India||Governor raising ‘frivolous’ queries to delay session, says Congress||NEW DELHI: Continuing to express its outrage over the developments in Rajasthan, Congress on Sunday accused governor Kalraj Mishra of raising “frivolous and motivated” queries to contrive a correspondence with state the government aimed at delaying convening of the assembly session. Senior lawyer and Congress spokesman Abhishek Singhvi said even a beginner in legal education knew that the governor had absolutely no authority to link the assembly session to court cases, ask the CM about the agenda of the session and question the logistics of transporting MLAs. He said “the simple and binding” constitutional provision is that the governor has to call the session as demanded by the state cabinet. “These frivolous, superfluous and motivated questions are like asking what is the colour of the sky? By the time you answer it’s blue, two days will pass in the exchange of letters. The questions asked by Raj Bhavan are dilatory tactics... the cat is out of the bag,” said Singhvi at a media conference. He said “the otherwise eloquent” PM Modi has turned into a “mauni baba” on the “defiling of the Constitution” because Mishra was acting at his behest. Singhvi slammed high court for accepting the petition on the disqualification notices issued by the speaker to Sachin Pilot and18 MLAs. “AreHCs not obliged to follow binding fivejudge Supreme Court judgments which have held the field for over 30 years? That the Speaker is non-interferable in disqualification notices,” Singhvi said. Tracing what he called was a long history of constitutional provision that the governor was bound to act on the advice of the state government on convening the assembly, Singhvi said the Constituent Assembly had considered giving the governor discretion on the issue. “That draft clause was dropped...” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/governor-raising-frivolous-queries-to-delay-session-says-congress/articleshow/77188531.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Goa||In South, seafarer and taxi driver turn cars into mobile shops||Colva: The novel coronavirus, which has sparked huge unemployment across the globe, has brought out the innovative entrepreneur in the unemployed youth of the state. Making minimal investment, they have turned their cars into mobile shops selling various items right from clothes, snacks, fruits and vegetables to even trinkets. Abdul Nadar from Cavelossim earned his living as a tourist taxi driver before the pandemic came along and closed down the hospitality industry and turned his life upside down. Left struggling for income, Nadar said he hit on the idea of turning his car into a mobile shop. Today he sells trinkets, cosmetics and even kitchen products, which he said allows him to take home Rs 500-600 at the end of the day after paying sopo taxes. “Before March this year my monthly salary was Rs 10,000 plus tips,” Nadar told TOI. “I bought some women’s items like bindis, lipsticks, kerchiefs and face masks, which are in demand, some kitchen products like strainers and graters, sought permission from various panchayats and parked in their jurisdiction by paying only sopo,” he said. Krishna Humbe from Navelim, a seafarer, had a similar story. He was nearly at the end of his contract when the virus struck. “I lost around two months due to the delay in coming home and then being in quarantine for fourteen days. I realised that the economic situation was bleak and the very next day after my quarantine period concluded, I turned my car into a mobile store. I picked some fruits and vegetables and started selling them,” Humbe said. He has three children and Humbe said he could not afford to stay at home and only depend on savings, which would dwindle quickly. “So I thought that instead of idling away my time I should try my hand at selling fruits and vegetables.” Today he earns around Rs 500 a day, which he said is better than nothing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-south-seafarer-and-taxi-driver-turn-cars-into-mobile-shops/articleshow/77187684.cms||Nisser Dias
July 27, 2020||Goa||DoE seeks report on access to learning for special students||Panaji: The directorate of education (DoE) has asked special schools to submit detailed information by Tuesday about the access to education provided by the institutes to special children during the Covid-19 pandemic. The DoE has allowed teachers and non-teaching staff of special schools too to work from home till July 31. But heads of institutions have been asked to maintain contact numbers of all teachers so they can be called as and when the need arises. School heads have been told to obtain plans on weekly basis from teachers on the academic activities being carried out by them. Sanjay centre for special education, with three institutes in the state and hundreds of students, had begun extending help to its students in April through its team of physiotherapy experts through the electronic medium. Parents ensure that their children do the physiotherapy exercises at home and are then asked to send videos of the sessions to the physiotherapists at the school to ensure continuity in therapy. The home programme is an important part of the therapy which helps to ensure that the children do not have tightening of the muscles due to the break in sessions. Due to the Covid-19 lockdown, children with special needs have no access to one-on-one physiotherapy sessions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/doe-seeks-report-on-access-to-learning-for-special-students/articleshow/77187715.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Goa||PWD: Karmal Ghat project report not yet finalised||Panaji: While local groups are opposing widening of the highway running through Karmal Ghat in Canacona, which, they contend, is expected to lead to the felling of thousands of trees, state officials said that the detailed project report for this work is still in the process of being prepared. Sources in the public works department (PWD) said the project is in its nascent stages and the alignment is yet to be finalised for the work. Following some claims that 13,000 trees will be felled, PWD minister Deepak Pauskar had said in January this year that permission is likely to be sought from the forest department for the cutting of 1,500 trees in Karmal Ghat. Locals and activists have demanded that construction of a tunnel be considered to avoid the felling of trees for the road widening project. The initial draft feasibility report prepared by the PWD shows that a similar tunnel was proposed while widening the road through Karmal Ghat from two-lane to four-lane. The PWD itself had said that though it would be more time-consuming to construct a tunnel, it would allow vehicles to move through this stretch at a higher speed of 100kmph. The report also states that after the construction the vegetation of forest cover will be reinstated over the tunnel of length 1.45km. A petition by greens to the central government states that Karmal Ghat is classified as north western ghats moist deciduous dorests and hosts populations of wild cats, slender loris, pangolin, bison, four-horned antelope, mouse deer, giant squirrel among many other rare, endemic and threatened species of flora and fauna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pwd-karmal-ghat-project-report-not-yet-finalised/articleshow/77187730.cms||---
July 27, 2020||India||Rahul Gandhi accuses BJP of ‘ripping up’ Constitution||NEW DELHI: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday accused BJP of “ripping up the Constitution and demolishing democracy” as he led party’s protest against Rajasthan governor’s “refusal” to convene the assembly session amid the political standoff created by Sachin Pilot’s rebellion. On Twitter, Rahul said BJP was trying to topple the government in Rajasthan after doing same in MP. Party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra too slammed the Centre. In an online protest ‘Speak Up For Democracy’ on Sunday, Congress members attacked BJP. Rohan Gupta, party’s social media in-charge, said the hashtag resonated as it was the top national trend||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rahul-gandhi-accuses-bjp-of-ripping-up-constitution/articleshow/77188538.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Goa||Locals ask all MLAs to oppose IIT project||Valpoi: The villagers of Shel Melauli in Sattari taluka held a public meeting under the banner of Melauli Panchkroshi Gram Bachav Andolan (MPGBA) on Sunday to oppose the IIT project proposed in their village. The co-convenor of MPGBA, Shubham Shivolkar, told TOI that the villagers have written to all 40 MLAs requesting them to move and adopt a resolution during the one-day assembly session on Monday to drop the proposal to construct the IIT in Melauli. At the meeting held near the Jalmi Sateri temple at Melauli, the over 400 villagers, including a large number of youth unanimously decided to protect their ancestral properties at any cost. The villagers were also backed by the Sattari Bhumiputra Sanghatana. While condemning the government’s decision regarding the IIT project without the consent of the panchayat and the gram sabha, the villagers resolved that a special gram sabha should be convened soon. The villagers also criticised health minister and Valpoi MLA Vishwajit Rane, who they said “is trying to take away their properties in order to construct an IIT”. A senior citizen, Shobawati Melekar, said that even during the Portuguese regime the villagers fiercely protected their lands, but now “just because the elderly persons from the village are illiterate” the government is trapping them by trying to take away their properties. “We will never allow the IIT project in Melauli and we are ready to do anything to ensure this,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/locals-ask-all-mlas-to-oppose-iit-project/articleshow/77187740.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Goa||Illegal beef sale: 3 held in Bicholim||Bicholim: Police on Sunday arrested three persons from Bicholim town on charges of illegally selling beef. On receiving information from Dr Rajesh Kenny from the animal husbandry department, the police raided two shops and confiscated around 150kg of beef. Police said that those arrested were Shageer Nazir Shaikh and Nadeen Mohamad Bashir Shaikh from Muslimwada and Abdul Bepari from Nagzarwada. It was found that the beef was unhygienic and not fit for consumption. Police also stated that the slaughter house from Belagavi, Karnataka, from where the beef was brought, did not have a valid certificate. Later police also raided another shop at Nagzarwada Bicholim owned by Bepari and confiscated beef as this too was unhygienic. Later police arrested Bepari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/illegal-beef-sale-3-held-in-bicholim/articleshow/77187749.cms||---
July 27, 2020||India||Audio clips controversy: ACB sends reminders to 2 rebel MLAs||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) has emailed reminder notices to suspended Congress legislators Bhanwarlal Sharma and Vishvendra Singh to get their statements recorded regarding two audio clips containing snatches of conversation about an alleged conspiracy to topple the Ashok Gehlot government, reports YeshikacBudhwar. “The MLAs had been first sent notices early last week, asking them to respond by Thursday. Since they have been incommunicado, we have again sent notices over email. They have been asked to respond in a week,” a senior ACB official said. The FIR against Sharma is based on a July 11complaint filed by Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi, in which he has been accused of being in cahoots with the BJP to destabilise the Ashok Gehlot government. Joshi provided two unverified audio recordings to the agency containing a discussion about horsetrading of Congress MLAs. Apart from Sharma, the Congress chief whip named “broker” Sanjay Jain, who has since been arrested, and one “Gajendra Singh”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/audio-clips-controversy-acb-sends-reminders-to-2-rebel-mlas/articleshow/77188544.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Goa||Sao Jose de Areal locals stop railway track work||Margao: Determined to oppose the South Western Railway’s (SWR) double tracking work in their village, residents of Sao Jose de Areal on Saturday prevented workers from carrying out landfilling of the area . Freddy Travasso, a resident, said that he along with a panchayat member representing the ward, rushed to the location on learning of the movement of trucks. “We saw that landfilling work was in progress. Three trucks laden with mud had just arrived. We asked them for their documents that authorised them to carry out the work. We asked them to show us the NOC from the panchayat for the work. They had none. We then asked them to go back,” Travasso said. Travasso also took exception to the movement of trucks passing through a private property without permission from the landowner. Pointing out that the SWR also failed to carry out a re-survey of the alignment of the second track as directed by the chief minister, Travasso said, “In any case, we don’t want another track passing through our village.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sao-jose-de-areal-locals-stop-railway-track-work/articleshow/77187760.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Goa||Charges against 26 in Serula case||Panaji: Crime branch of Goa police has filed a chargesheet against 26 persons in the alleged Serula comunidade land scam. Four panchayat secretaries, seven office-bearers of comunidade, including attorney Agnelo lobo, besides 15 beneficiaries of illegal plots have been named in the chargesheet. The case was first registered in 2014 at Porvorim police station against the comunidade office-bearers and plot beneficiaries. Later, in the same year, it was transferred to the crime branch. Crime branch superintendent of police Shobhit Saksena said the office-bearers of comunidade prepared fraudulent temporary possession certificates by mentioning the file numbers, government order number and plots of genuine persons and handed over to the accused persons without observing legal procedure as per the code of comunidade. During the course of investigation, 17 accused were arrested. Saksena said the chargesheet is filed under various sections of Indian Penal Code including cheating, criminal breach of trust by public servants, misappropriation of property etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/charges-against-26-in-serula-case/articleshow/77187769.cms||---
July 27, 2020||India||Corona still fatal, don’t lower guard: PM’s radio message||NEW DELHI: Urging people not to lower their guard, PM Narendra Modi on Sunday said coronavirus is still as fatal as it was in the beginning when the contagion appeared on the global scene. During his monthly radio address ‘Mann ki Baat’, he urged citizens to take a pledge of freedom from the pandemic on August 15 and also resolve for self-reliant India on the lines of the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ he had announced. His message comes at a time when curbs are easing and it is being felt that the public at large is becoming slack in observing social distancing and use of masks and cases of infection are rising. Modi said the hazards of coronavirus are far from over and at many places it is spreading fast. “We need to be extra vigilant. We have to bear in mind that corona is as fatal today as it was in the beginning — that’s why we have to be fully cautions,” he said. Modi will on Monday launch “high throughput” Covid-19 testing facilities in three locations via video conferencing. This comes as India aims to ramp up collective coronavirus testing capacity to 10 lakh tests per day. “High throughput” research refers to automation of experiments where largescale repetitions are made feasible. These facilities will not only ramp up testing capacity but also strengthen early detection and treatment of coronavirus, which is expected to assist the country in controlling the spread of the pandemic. The three high-throughput testing facilities to be launched by the PM have been set up strategically at ICMR’s centres in Noida, Mumbai and Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/corona-still-fatal-dont-lower-guard-pms-radio-message/articleshow/77188558.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Goa||Lockdown effect: IIT-Bombay looks at Vasco’s air||PANAJI: The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Bombay, has asked the Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) for the Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring System (CAAQMS) and the National Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Programme (NAMP) data of six locations from the port town to assess the air pollution at Vasco during the lockdown. IIT-Bombay, which has been tasked with conducting a source appropriation study at Vasco following allegations of coal pollution in the town, requires data on movement of rakes, trucks and ships. The board has to submit the information for the period January to June 2019 and for May 2020. The IIT’s environmental science and engineering department (CESE), in a letter to the board, said that data across six stations is needed in order to assess the effect of lockdown on air pollution for the period. Similar data for the comparative period from previous years is also required from the same stations, the IIT told GSPCB. The institute has completed data collection for the second phase of the study and chemical analysis is in progress. Speaking to TOI, chairman of GSPCB, Ganesh Shetgaonkar, had said that IIT-Bombay has submitted the interim report after completing the first phase of study. The final report will indicate the exact quantity of coal, bauxite and other dust particles present in the air. The source appropriation study is aimed at allowing the government to determine the reason behind the air pollution in the town. The first phase report stated that coal is not the only mineral behind the air pollution in the town. A senior GSPCB officer said that the interim report was not exactly to pinpoint the reason with regards to pollution in Vasco but the second phase study will give details about the source of pollution. The first phase began in April and was completed on May 2018. The Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) will bear the cost of the entire study, which has been pegged at over Rs 94 lakh, a senior GSPCB officer had said. Identification of sampling locations, monitoring ambient air quality, and locating pollution sources are part of the study’s scope, and will be carried out as per guidelines of the central pollution control board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lockdown-effect-iit-bombay-looks-at-vascos-air/articleshow/77187775.cms||---
July 27, 2020||India||Biocon's drug not included in Centre's treatment protocol for Covid||BENGALURU: Biocon suffered a setback on Sunday with the Union health ministry announcing that the firm’s itolizumab drug has not been included in national treatment protocol for Covid-19 patients. Less than two weeks ago, the Drug Controller General of India had given permission for the drug’s use on moderate to severe coronavirus patients, leading to a surge in the company’s share price. The health ministry in a note said the National Task Force on Covid-19 constituted by the ministry had held that there is “very less evidence in favour of this medicine.” Several independent experts had also questioned Biocon’s use of just 30 patients for the trial. But Biocon had noted that it is a drug that was approved previously for psoriasis, and this was only a label extension. It also said the emergency procedures for getting a clearance for use on Covid-19 patients were as per international norms. On Sunday, following the ministry’s statement, Biocon said in a statement: “The National Covid Task Force needs to see more evidence and we will provide them large real world data to enable the committee to reconsider its decision on inclusion of itolizumab in the protocol. Nearly 1,000 patients have used the drug across the country with good outcome data.” It went on to day: “Also, we have already announced that we have planned for a 200 patient pan India phase 4 trial to be conducted across 10-15 hospitals. The study protocol has been submitted to the DCGI and we will commence the trial soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-doesnt-endorse-biocon-drug-for-covid/articleshow/77188567.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka awaits Centre’s nod to open film theatres from August 1||BENGALURU: With the Centre signalling it’s ready to allow multiplexes and theatres to reopen, the Karnataka entertainment industry is hoping to return to business from August 1. Sources said the Union ministry of information and broadcast has recommended the resumption of film exhibition and this is being favourably considered by the ministry of home affairs (MHA), which is preparing the guidelines for Unlock 3.0. Besides theatres and multiplexes, other services which have remained shut since mid-March are educational institutions, Metro rail, gymnasiums, swimming pools, liquor consumption at pubs and bars. The government was positively looking at reopening these services early this month, but had to put the plan on hold as confirmed Covid-19 cases in the state have been rising at an alarming rate in the past 3-4 weeks. “We are getting clear signals that the government would green-light the proposal of lifting the ban on film screening in theatres as the industry is completely prepared to comply with the new normal of social distancing and other norms post Covid-19,” said Pramod Arora, CEO of PVR Cinemas. The state government, whose focus is on striking a balance between the operations to rein in the Covid-19 pandemic and revive the economy, is said to be open to the idea if the Centre gave its nod. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday made it clear to a delegation of multiplex owners that his government was in favour of resumption of all activities of the film industries, including production and exhibition. ‘Theatres ready to resume screening’The CM has, in principle, agreed to allow film screening . Now, we have to wait for the Centre’s guidelines,” said Uday Garudachar, BJP MLA and owner of Garuda Mall. While the industry is jubilant, the dampener is the likely chances of restricting the occupancy in theatres to 25% of their capacity. “Owners of all 615 single-screen theatres are ready to resume film exhibition. But it is the government’s responsibility to address business concerns of the industry. We expect a special financial package,” said KV Chandrashekhar, president of Karnataka Film Exhibitors Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-awaits-centres-nod-to-open-film-theatres-from-august-1/articleshow/77188569.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
July 27, 2020||Thane||Maharashtra government may continue capping of hospital charges till November-end||MUMBAI: The state is likely to extend the capping on hospital charges and rates for Covid and non-Covid treatment in private hospitals for another three months. The scheme that allowed local authorities to take control of 80%beds in private hospitals and regulate treatment costs expires on August 31. A senior official said a final decision was awaited, but plans are to extend it till November–end owing to a surge in infections statewide. “By that time, we are hopeful that the pandemic will settle down and the caseload will be manageable in the government sector,” the official said. Rapid rise in incidence in the Mumbai-Pune corridor, in particular, has left the state unequal to the task of managing without the help of private facilities. Several leading hospitals in Mumbai confirmed that up to 20% of their ICU beds were occupied by patients from urban centres around the city. Dr Sudhakar Shinde, CEO of the State Health Assurance Society, who helped draft the scheme, said patients are coming to Mumbai in big numbers. “Mumbai’s cases may have flattened… but tertiary hospitals are seeing a major influx. It only shows that people are going to need beds in private sector,” he said. Patients are coming from as far as Pune, Dhule, Jalgaon, he said. In Pune particularly, Shinde said, ICU beds were in short supply. Health minister Rajesh Tope on Friday said Pune was facing a shortage as allocation of beds in private hospitals was not well implemented. Dr Shinde said, in all, merely 18% of Covid patients have so far taken treatment in the private sector. “So capping is an option to ensure equitable and quality treatment for everybody,” he said. Maharashtra was the first state to limit treatment costs following complaints of profiteering and enable civic corporations to regulate bed allocation even in private hospitals through a civic helpline. BMC commissioner IS Chahal reiterated on Saturday that the bed shortage at the peak of the pandemic could be resolved only after the private hospitals were brought on board. Now Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana are among states that have followed Maharashtra’s example and capped treatment charges. Corporate and trust-run hospitals though have been crying hoarse about the losses they are suffering due to the price cap. Before the May 22 circular when rates to 80% of beds were fixed, the state was toying with a plan to cap charges for all the beds. But the Association of Hospitals (AOH), a body of trust-run institutions including Nanavati, Lilavati, Breach Candy, Jaslok, urged the state against it. On Sunday, an AOH official said, “We are still a month away before the notification expires. We will begin talks with the state. It’s important to gauge how much the scheme has benefited people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/maharashtra-government-may-continue-capping-of-hospital-charges-till-november-end/articleshow/77188582.cms||Sumitra Debroy
July 27, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra government may continue capping of hospital charges till November-end||MUMBAI: The state is likely to extend the capping on hospital charges and rates for Covid and non-Covid treatment in private hospitals for another three months. The scheme that allowed local authorities to take control of 80%beds in private hospitals and regulate treatment costs expires on August 31. A senior official said a final decision was awaited, but plans are to extend it till November–end owing to a surge in infections statewide. “By that time, we are hopeful that the pandemic will settle down and the caseload will be manageable in the government sector,” the official said. Rapid rise in incidence in the Mumbai-Pune corridor, in particular, has left the state unequal to the task of managing without the help of private facilities. Several leading hospitals in Mumbai confirmed that up to 20% of their ICU beds were occupied by patients from urban centres around the city. Dr Sudhakar Shinde, CEO of the State Health Assurance Society, who helped draft the scheme, said patients are coming to Mumbai in big numbers. “Mumbai’s cases may have flattened… but tertiary hospitals are seeing a major influx. It only shows that people are going to need beds in private sector,” he said. Patients are coming from as far as Pune, Dhule, Jalgaon, he said. In Pune particularly, Shinde said, ICU beds were in short supply. Health minister Rajesh Tope on Friday said Pune was facing a shortage as allocation of beds in private hospitals was not well implemented. Dr Shinde said, in all, merely 18% of Covid patients have so far taken treatment in the private sector. “So capping is an option to ensure equitable and quality treatment for everybody,” he said. Maharashtra was the first state to limit treatment costs following complaints of profiteering and enable civic corporations to regulate bed allocation even in private hospitals through a civic helpline. BMC commissioner IS Chahal reiterated on Saturday that the bed shortage at the peak of the pandemic could be resolved only after the private hospitals were brought on board. Now Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana are among states that have followed Maharashtra’s example and capped treatment charges. Corporate and trust-run hospitals though have been crying hoarse about the losses they are suffering due to the price cap. Before the May 22 circular when rates to 80% of beds were fixed, the state was toying with a plan to cap charges for all the beds. But the Association of Hospitals (AOH), a body of trust-run institutions including Nanavati, Lilavati, Breach Candy, Jaslok, urged the state against it. On Sunday, an AOH official said, “We are still a month away before the notification expires. We will begin talks with the state. It’s important to gauge how much the scheme has benefited people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maharashtra-government-may-continue-capping-of-hospital-charges-till-november-end/articleshow/77188581.cms||Sumitra Debroy
July 27, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government may continue capping of hospital charges till November-end||MUMBAI: The state is likely to extend the capping on hospital charges and rates for Covid and non-Covid treatment in private hospitals for another three months. The scheme that allowed local authorities to take control of 80%beds in private hospitals and regulate treatment costs expires on August 31. A senior official said a final decision was awaited, but plans are to extend it till November–end owing to a surge in infections statewide. “By that time, we are hopeful that the pandemic will settle down and the caseload will be manageable in the government sector,” the official said. Rapid rise in incidence in the Mumbai-Pune corridor, in particular, has left the state unequal to the task of managing without the help of private facilities. Several leading hospitals in Mumbai confirmed that up to 20% of their ICU beds were occupied by patients from urban centres around the city. Dr Sudhakar Shinde, CEO of the State Health Assurance Society, who helped draft the scheme, said patients are coming to Mumbai in big numbers. “Mumbai’s cases may have flattened… but tertiary hospitals are seeing a major influx. It only shows that people are going to need beds in private sector,” he said. Patients are coming from as far as Pune, Dhule, Jalgaon, he said. In Pune particularly, Shinde said, ICU beds were in short supply. Health minister Rajesh Tope on Friday said Pune was facing a shortage as allocation of beds in private hospitals was not well implemented. Dr Shinde said, in all, merely 18% of Covid patients have so far taken treatment in the private sector. “So capping is an option to ensure equitable and quality treatment for everybody,” he said. Maharashtra was the first state to limit treatment costs following complaints of profiteering and enable civic corporations to regulate bed allocation even in private hospitals through a civic helpline. BMC commissioner IS Chahal reiterated on Saturday that the bed shortage at the peak of the pandemic could be resolved only after the private hospitals were brought on board. Now Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana are among states that have followed Maharashtra’s example and capped treatment charges. Corporate and trust-run hospitals though have been crying hoarse about the losses they are suffering due to the price cap. Before the May 22 circular when rates to 80% of beds were fixed, the state was toying with a plan to cap charges for all the beds. But the Association of Hospitals (AOH), a body of trust-run institutions including Nanavati, Lilavati, Breach Candy, Jaslok, urged the state against it. On Sunday, an AOH official said, “We are still a month away before the notification expires. We will begin talks with the state. It’s important to gauge how much the scheme has benefited people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-government-may-continue-capping-of-hospital-charges-till-november-end/articleshow/77188566.cms||Sumitra Debroy
July 27, 2020||India||Flood toll hits 100+ as 3 die in Assam; 7 in Bihar||GUWAHATI/PATNA: Floods continue to wreak havoc in eastern parts of the country. On Sunday, three more people died in Assam taking the toll past 100, while seven people lost their lives in Bihar. PM Modi in his monthly Mann ki Baat expressed his solidarity with all those affected by floods and heavy rainfall in Assam and Bihar. “A large part of the country is grappling with floods. Many areas of states such as Bihar and Assam are having to deal with a series of difficulties due to the floods. … all governments, NDRF teams, disaster response teams and self-help groups are working in tandem to provide relief and rescue in all possible ways,” Modi said. According to the daily flood bulletin by the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA), 23 districts are still affected, impacting nearly 25 lakh people, about 1.5 lakh less than Saturday. Almost 46,000 people have taken shelter in 269 government relief camps. The overall flood situation, however, improved on Sunday as water levels of all major rivers started receding. However, Central Water Commission (CWC) has predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall in Assam and Meghalaya from Tuesday. Nearly 85% of Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR) has been inundated. P Sivakumar, director, KNPTR, said the water level was receding in the park, but the speed was “very slow”. Bihar water resources department minister Sanjay Kumar Jha said, except Burhi Gandak and Bagmati, all major rivers had showed a receding trend on Sunday evening. However, the CWC, in its bulletin stated that rivers in Bihar were flowing in ‘above normal flood situation’ in many downstream locations with falling trend and are likely to further fall in two to three days. Although, rainfall is likely to rise in Bihar on July 29 and 30, the CWC said. In north Bihar, over 15 lakh people have been affected According to state disaster management department, nearly 1.4 lakh had been evacuated as 625 panchayats were marooned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/flood-toll-hits-100-as-3-die-in-assam-7-in-bihar/articleshow/77188589.cms||Jainarain Pandey
July 27, 2020||Bhopal||No football or cricket, only onions and potatoes at this MP's Satna stadium||BHOPAL: Ever heard of a vegetable market running in a sports stadium, that has been set up to harness state and national-level athletes? Satna’s Dada Sukhendra Singh Stadium, a sports complex of the sports department, was a makeshift vegetable market till Saturday. After objections by the sports department, the district administration finally evicted the vegetable market from the stadium. The venue has been built for athletes, as the sports department is trying to bring athletes to grounds. However, the Satna stadium is often used for activities other than sports. District sports officer (DSO) Ahmed Khan said that he had informed the sports department about the problems being faced in conducting sports activities at the stadium. “I belong to the sports department. I had informed the department about it. After the intervention of the sports department, the vegetable market has been shifted to another place,” said Khan. Even athletes feel that the stadium should have never be used for any other activity. “I am unable to understand the logic of converting the stadium into a vegetable market. There were several other places in Satna district where the market could have been shifted instead of the sports ground,” said an athlete, without quoting his name. Another athlete said that their training suffers a lot due to the vegetable market. “Already due to Covid activities related to sports have been affected. When the sports department opened the ground across the district administration of Satna went on to convert the stadium into a vegetable market,” said another athlete. He said, “Thankfully, the market has been shifted. I am hoping that the district administration will not do it again.” When contacted, Satna collector Ajay Katesaria admitted that the stadium was converted into a vegetable market. “We have removed the market from the stadium to another place,” said collector Katesaria. Asked the reason for shifting the market to a stadium, he said, “Due to waterlogging issues, the market was shifted to the stadium. As there is , the hardly any rain now, the market has been shifted back.” Asked as to whether he will shift it again to the stadium when the rain comes, the collector said, “I can’t reply at this stage.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/no-football-or-cricket-only-onions-potatoes-at-this-satna-stadium/articleshow/77187897.cms||Ramendra Singh
July 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Pourakarmika, 35, dies after 3-hour search for ventilator||BENGALURU: A 35-year-old pourakarmika with coronavirus infection died while being shifted to a hospital with a spare ventilator on Saturday evening. Raghu Vel, a resident of MRS Palya, is the second BBMP pourakarmika and at least the third corona warrior to succumb to Covid-19 in the past two weeks after a reported struggle for treatment, a bed or ventilator. Raghu had developed fever on Wednesday and took leave from work. On Saturday morning, he went to Sir CV Raman General Hospital and took a rapid antigen test that turned positive. He was immediately hospitalised, but at 4.30pm, he started experiencing breathing issues and doctors said he needed ventilator support. All the ventilators at the hospital were occupied. His colleagues said they tried for three hours, but could not arrange a ventilator bed. “BBMP officials from Pulikeshinagar subdivision, where Raghu worked, also tried their best, but all the hospitals they contacted said they didn’t have spare ventilators. Finally, Akash Hospital in Devanahalli said that it had the system, and we decided to take him there. He died just as we were entering the hospital,” said a relative, Dass S, who is also a representative of BBMP pourakarmikas. Raghu is survived by wife and three young daughters. “I don’t know how we will live without him,” said his wife, Sireesh. Dass said Raghu was the second pourakarmika to die without proper treatment in the state capital. “If the government cannot protect the lives of pourakarmikas, who are frontline workers and corona warriors, we are going to stop our daily work,” he said. On July 16, 28-year-old pourakarmika Shilpa Prasad, who had also contracted Covid-19, died after a delay in getting treatment. Seven hospitals allegedly refused to admit her. Later that day, BBMP informed the Karnataka high court that four pourakarmikas had died of Covid-19 and 15 were undergoing treatment for the infection. Officials assured the court that all 17,491 pourakarmikas of BBMP would be screened for the disease and provided with personal protection equipment (PPE) kits and other safety gear. The civic body also claimed that it was paying Rs 10 lakh compensation and Rs 20,000 towards funeral expenses to the kin of each victim. Another corona warrior, school teacher Dilnaz Begum, also died on Saturday. She is suspected to have contracted the virus while conducting door-to-door surveys to identify people with influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). Three hospitals allegedly refused to admit her, insisting on a test report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-pourakarmika-35-dies-after-3-hour-search-for-ventilator/articleshow/77188592.cms||Kiran Parashar
July 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Four held for robbing trader of Rs 45 lakh in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: One-and-a half months after a cigarette distributor was robbed of Rs 45.5 lakh, his employee and three teenagers have landed in custody. Officials on Saturday recovered Rs 31,86,500, including Rs 9 lakh hidden in a car tyre, from the gang. Mohammed Ishak, 25, salesman of distributor Rakesh Pokarna, 45, is the main accused. His associates Mohammed Parvez, 19, Mohammed Adnan, 19, and Afnan Pasha, 19, are college dropouts. They splurged over Rs 13 lakh on buying iPhones and clothes. The robbery occurred on June 11 when Pokarana was returning home in his car. He is a distributor for a major cigarette brand in Bengaluru and over 100 salesmen work with him. He had collected cash from his salesmen, kept it in his car’s glove compartment and was returning home via Lingarajapuram. At 6.25pm, a biker rammed the car. His driver Chandru didn’t stop the car, but the biker kept following them, blaring the horn. Finally, Chandru stopped the car near Clarence Public School and got down. The driver and the biker were arguing when the pillion rider got down and took away the cash box. Two more knife-wielding miscreants joined in when Pokarana, who was in the backseat, tried to snatch the box back. “They sped away in two bikes which had no number plates,” police said. The accused shared the loot equally. Ishak spent Rs 2 lakh from his share and hid Rs 9 lakh in a car tyre and kept it in his sister’s house at Bethamangala in Kolar district. The other three accused hid their shares in the houses of their friends in Bengaluru, after spending a part of it. “We had CCTV footages and suspected Ishak’s involvement. We recovered three mobile phones and three two-wheelers from the accused. They appear to be first-time offenders,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/four-held-for-robbing-trader-of-rs-45-lakh-in-bengaluru/articleshow/77188601.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Mumbai||60,000 vials of Covid vaccine to be kept aside for Parsis only||MUMBAI: Billionaire industrialist Cyrus Poonawalla is believed to have agreed to set aside 60,000 vials of Covid-19 vaccine exclusively for the Parsi community to which he belongs. His son Adar tweeted: “We will keep more than enough for the community. Our production capacity of just one day will be enough to cover every Parsi on the planet.. given the size of our community!” Adar, CEO and owner of Serum Institute of India, was replying to a tweet by entrepreneur Ronnie Screwvala. Yes, @RonnieScrewvala, we will keep more than enough for the community. Our production capacity of just one day wil… https://t.co/MU9EMVPiCe— Adar Poonawalla (@adarpoonawalla) 1595755270000On Sunday, Screwvala tweeted, “On a lighter note since Parsis are to be an extinct race (though average age of Parsis shows otherwise) there is a lobby that as vaccine does come in there will be a special quota under saving from extinction Race--& why not if a Parsi is at the forefront of it @adarpoonawalla” The senior Poonawalla’s assurance went viral on social media when a Parsi community newsletter published the news. The Poonawallas do a lot of philanthropic work to uplift financially weak members of the community. It was former Bombay Parsi Punchayat chairman Dinshaw Mehta who sent a request message to Cyrus Poonawalla, “…Your vaccine firm of Serum Institute is a frontrunner in the search for a vaccine... My request is to please reserve at least 60,000 vials for the Parsi community... At present we are only 60,000 and around 40 Parsis have died of Covid...’’ Mehta told TOI: “Dr Poonawalla replied the same night, agreeing to reserve 60,000 vials of vaccine for Parsis.’’ Oxford University, in collaboration with Poonawalla’s Serum Institute, is currently developing a vaccine for Covid. Watch Covid-19: 60,000 vials of vaccine to be kept aside for Parsi community||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/60000-vials-of-covid-vaccine-to-be-kept-aside-for-parsis-only/articleshow/77188599.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Ranchi||Pregnant woman runs away from hosp after testing +ve, traced||Koderma: A pregnant woman, who fled from the isolation ward of the sadar hospital here on Saturday after she tested positive for Covid-19, was traced and brought back on Sunday. The woman is a resident of Taratand under Nawalshahi police station area. Deputy superintendent of sadar hospital Dr R Kumar said the woman was detected positive on Saturday evening. “She had come for delivery and as per protocol, a Covid test was conducted. She was then kept in isolation after. While arrangements were underway for her delivery, we suddenly realised she has escaped.” Her escape sent everyone into a tizzy and the hospital management along with the local police launched a search operation. On Sunday morning, the health department received a tip-off that the woman got admitted at a private nursing home at Parsabad under Jainagar police station. A team rushed to the clinic on Sunday morning. However, the team was told that the woman delivered a baby and was discharged in the wee hours of Sunday. Later, she was traced in her village in Taratand. In another case, a 24-year-old Covid-positive woman, resident of Asnabad under Telaiya police station, delivered a baby at the Covid hospital here. Doctors said the child was born through C-section and is stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pregnant-woman-runs-away-from-hosp-after-testing-ve-traced/articleshow/77187498.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Kolkata||ED attaches Rs 3.9cr assets of IRS officer in corruption case||Kolkata: The Enforcement Directorate has attached property worth nearly Rs 3.9 crore in connection with its probe against Neeraj Singh, former additional director of the Income Tax department who was posted in Kolkata. A property in Mumbai worth nearly Rs 3.2 crore, apart from bank balance worth Rs 73 lakh, was attached by the central investigating agency. Earlier last year, ED had questioned Singh in connection with the Rose Valley case and his alleged involvement with a Kolkata-based accountant. In a press statement, ED said the accountant acted as a “frontman” for Singh and “laundered proceeds of crime”. It also alleged that Singh bought the Mumbai property from the money routed through “a number of companies” floated by the accountant. “The property they have attached does not belong to me and is in the name of a person who is not a family member. Me and my wife do not even own a house. I have one bank account where my salary is debited. Since ED froze debit into that account, I am left with no provision to pay bills for my chemotherapy. In fact, my wife’s account is frozen as well,” Singh said. Singh said he came to know the accountant through his father and has not spoken to the person in the last five years. “It was after the case started that I came to know about the accountant’s connection with the Rose Valley Group. Since he has a number of clients, he will not divulge that to me. I have supplied all documents to ED and there has not been any non-compliance on my part,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ed-attaches-rs-3-9cr-assets-of-irs-officer-in-corruption-case/articleshow/77187930.cms||Rohit Khanna
July 27, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Son refuses, daughter performs last rites of Covid +ve father||JAMSHEDPUR: The coronavirus pandemic is not just affecting the health and the economy of the nation, it is also tearing apart families and rupturing longstanding friendships, among others. In one such example, the son of a 70-year-old man here, who died of Covid-19, refused to conduct the final rites of his father. Even after repeated pleas from the district officials, the son refused to go near the father’s body or take part in the last journey to the crematorium at Bhuiyandih in Steel City. Finally, the deceased’s daughter agreed to perform the last rites. He has another daughter, who lives in Kolkata. Sources said the septuagenarian was admitted to the Tata Main Hospital on July 11 after he complained of breathlessness, but his first Covid test came negative. A test performed on July 17, however, returned positive. The man died on July 24 during treatment. Notably, a similar incident happened in Kadma area earlier, where a man refused to perform the final rites of his father suspecting that the latter was Covid positive. The neighbours of the deceased had conducted the last rites of the man then. Shops closed: The shopkeepers in Potka on the outskirts of Jamshedpur have decided to keep their shops closed for a week in view of the rising cases of Covid-19 in the district. They have informed the administration about their decision. Sources said the shopkeepers decided to take the step as markets have become hotspots for transmission of the virus, with hardly anyone following Covid protocols like maintaining social distancing, among others. Earlier, a similar decision was taken by traders in Gamariha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/son-refuses-daughter-performs-last-rites-of-covid-ve-father/articleshow/77187474.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
July 27, 2020||Ranchi||Rims’ laxity delays results, 120 docs idle amid Covid spike in state||Ranchi: At a time when the state is staring at an acute shortage of doctors with a few districts appealing private doctors to join the fight against Covid-19, around 120 doctors of the state’s largest and lone tertiary care centre for Covid, Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims), are sitting idle due to a delay in publication of results of their post-graduation examination. Several doctors who are waiting for their results and subsequent posting by state health department alleged that their results have been delayed due to mismanagement by the academic section of Rims as they failed to provide the tabulation of results to the Ranchi University on time. Many among those awaiting results said they had approached the hospital administration on a couple of occasions, but to no avail. The final theory examinations of third year post graduate students were conducted between June 15 to 25 and the oral and practical examinations were scheduled to be completed by July 6 in order to get the results at the earliest. Barring radiology, all other departments had completed their practical/oral examinations by July 14 and the tabulation was submitted to the Rims administration by July 16. As the administration didn’t submit the results to the University till July 24, the results got delayed. “We had met the director in the first week of July and had requested her to expedite the process so that we can provide our services to the health department. Every time we approached her, she said our results will be declared by July 25. Now, university officials are telling us that they need time to publish the results,” said one of the PG students. Dean (academic) Dr Satish Chandra said, “The practical examination of the radiology department was delayed as externals were not available for conducting the examinations due to travel restrictions owing to Covid-19. We sent the results to Ranchi University as soon as the examination concluded on July 22, but the results are yet to be declared.” When contacted, Ranchi University officials said the results aren’t being published as the term of the controller of examinations ended on July 23 and they are yet to someone and only after that will the results be published. “We had requested the academic section to send the results of the other departments to the University so that the results can be announced. Just because of one department, more than 120 students are not being able to provide their services to the state in the hour of need,” said another PG student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rims-laxity-delays-results-120-docs-idle-amid-covid-spike-in-state/articleshow/77187492.cms||Gaurav Pandey
July 27, 2020||Ranchi||Despite hints of relaxations, cinema hall owners ‘the end’||Ranchi: Cinema hall owners of both single screens and multiplexes in Jharkhand are not optimistic about their future even as the Centre is mulling to allow their operation from the next month. Prashant Kumar Singh, secretary of Jharkhand Cine Exhibitors’ Association (JCEA), on Sunday said, “Reopening cinema halls will lead to further financial losses for the 35-odd single screen halls as low footfall will not give them enough revenue to make up for the operational costs.” Many owners are also planning to shut down their establishments. “At present, no movie is being shot. The ones which are ready are not being released. I am planning to shut down my hall and venture into something else,” Singh said. “With cases rising sharply every day, there is a sense of fear among denizens. Even if the Centre allows us to open, as is being discussed, there will be little footfall in the cinema halls due to the fear of getting infected,” he added. Multiplexes in Jharkhand are also anticipating low footfall and a rise in operational costs. “It is almost certain that even if we can open, there will be a cap on the maximum sitting capacity to maintain social distancing. The number of shows will have to be brought down as more time will have to be devoted towards complete sanitization of the halls between shows,” an official of a popular multiplex, located on Main Road, said on condition of anonymity. A Ranchi-based single screen owner Birendra Kumar said, “During the lockdown, I had to pay my staff their monthly wages. There was no relaxation in the electricity bills as well. Even if we open, the operational costs cannot be met as people won’t come to the halls for the fear of getting infected.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/despite-hints-of-relaxations-cinema-hall-owners-the-end/articleshow/77187532.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Kolkata||Sikkim reports first Covid death||Siliguri: Sikkim reported its first Covid-19 death on Sunday after a 67-year-old man lost his battle with the virus at STNM hospital. The Himalayan state is perhaps the last in the country to record a death from the novel coronavirus. The victim was a retired headmaster from Rongli in east Sikkim. He had a history of hypertension and was diabetic, said health officials. DG-cum-secretary, health and family welfare department, Pempa Tshering Bhutia said: “The patient was brought to Rongli hospital on Saturday with complaint of a minor ailment. However, when doctors ran an RTPCR test on him, he tested positive and was shifted to STNM hospital. He was moved to the ICU where he died around 8.30pm. The cremation will be carried out according to standard operating procedure by Gangtok Municipal Corporation.” The Sikkim government has extended its lockdown till August 1. According to officials, the state had reported 545 cases till Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sikkim-reports-first-covid-death/articleshow/77187941.cms||Roshan Gupta
July 27, 2020||Kolkata||Longer ICU stays keep critical care out of reach for many in Kolkata||KOLKATA: As the number of critical Covid-19 cases rise, the average occupancy period of ICU beds has doubled in several private hospitals across Kolkata. This has denied admission to scores of patients who need emergency critical care, even as more ICU patients are now getting cured. At least three hospitals have added more ICU beds over the last fortnight. Till early July, the average occupancy of a Covid ICU bed at Ruby General Hospital had been just four days. This has now shot up to eight days, forcing the hospital to add four more ICU beds. It has created a backlog of patients waiting to get into ICU, said general manager-operations, Subhasish Datta. “We were forced to add more ICU beds since the number of critical patients has swelled. But waiting time has risen, which is why we are extending the ICU unit,” said Datta, adding that more patients were now getting cured after ICU admission. At Medica Superspecialty Hospital, the number of ICU beds has gone up to 75 from about 50 a month ago, and there have been at least a dozen patients waiting over the last one week. Average occupancy period has jumped from 4-5 days to 8-9 days. “We have seen a spurt in the number of critical cases,” said Medica chairperson Alok Roy. “More than half of all Covid patients seeking admission are elderly, in need of oxygen, and who require an ICU bed straightaway. Their recovery is often turning out to be slow, due to co-morbidities. But longer occupancy has been an obstacle, and it left us with no other alternative than adding beds. We are close to the limit now,” said Medica chairperson Alok Roy. A reason why occupancy period has gone up is that critical Covid patients are not recovering from associated problems even after they turn negative for the virus itself, pointed out Fortis Hospital pulmonologist Raja Dhar. “Earlier, more mild patients would be admitted to ICUs. As the total number of affected has gone up, we have more critical patients with severe co-morbidities like lung injury and muscle weakness, which are keeping them confined to bed even after recovering from Covid. So, while the mildly symptomatic are now released earlier, the recovery time for the critical is now longer,” said Dhar. The average occupancy of an ICU bed at Fortis has now gone up to 14 days. At Peerless Hospital, there has been a sharp spurt in the ICU occupancy period — from 7 days to 12 days — since the second week of July. “We have noticed a jump in critical cases since July 10. These patients have severe co-morbidities and are recovering slowly, increasing the bed occupancy period. It has led to a resource crunch, since longer occupancy means ventilators, oxygen and other support are occupied for a longer period. More critical patients and longer bed occupancy not only mean a lower recovery rate, but also denial of ICU care to moderate patients who deteriorate and need critical care,” said Peerless CEO Sudipto Mitra. Onco-surgeon Saurav Dutta agreed. “With the spiralling numbers, this was waiting to happen,” he said. “We now have a greater number of complicated cases and recovery time is obviously longer for them. There is a limit to which ICU beds can be added, and the problem won’t be solved merely by reducing the treatment time of asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients.” At hospitals like RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) and AMRI, the ICU stay period has not lengthened, but it’s been around 14-15 days. “Our ICU occupancy rate has doubled, and has remained 100% for weeks,” said RTIICS zonal director R Venkatesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/longer-icu-stays-keep-critical-care-out-of-reach-for-many-in-kol/articleshow/77188239.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
July 27, 2020||Kolkata||TMC begins thrice-weekly video campaign||Kolkata: Trinamool Congress on Sunday launched a new campaign to highlight the achievements of the state government and showcase how federalism was being allegedly eroded by the Centre. The campaign, “Shoja Banglay Bolchi” (speaking in straightforward Bengali), will be a thrice-weekly video series anchored by TMC’s Rajya Sabha party leader Derek O’Brien. “One-minute video clips will be released at 11 am every Sunday, Wednesday and Friday. The series is expected to run for the next few months on social media,” TMC said in a statement. The videos will highlight issues pertinent in the present social, political and economic framework, it said. “The videos will also focus on how Bengal, under Mamata Banerjee’s leadership, has made phenomenal progress in the last nine years across parameters. Other subjects include how federalism has eroded and how states have been deprived,” TMC added. According to TMC sources, this social media campaign will be used to counter BJP’s allegations about “fake news and rhetoric against the state government and the party”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-begins-thrice-weekly-video-campaign/articleshow/77187933.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Kolkata||I am and will be with BJP: Mukul||Kolkata: Bengal BJP leader Mukul Roy on Sunday said he “was with BJP and will continue to remain with the party”. Roy, who is in Kolkata for follow-up treatment of his eyes, said his work had been noticed and praised by PM Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah. “There is no room for speculation. There have been reports in the media that I am about to quit the party. Those are baseless assu- mptions. I have been working under the direction of Kaila- sh Vijayvargiya and B L Santhosh,” Roy said at an interaction with media on Sunday. Roy said he was unaware of BJP hoardings being removed from in front of his Delhi home. “Delhi Municipal Corporation has removed it,” he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/i-am-and-will-be-with-bjp-mukul/articleshow/77187938.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Ranchi||Covid-positive 9-day-old baby recovers||Ranchi: A nine-day-old baby boy recovered from Covid-19 at Rims here, arguably the youngest person to overcome the disease in the state so far. Born to a Covid-positive mother from Koderma on June 16, the baby was brought to Rims on June 20 by his grandmother after he developed symptoms of jaundice. The mother was then undergoing treatment at Paras hospital, a private and dedicated Covid hospital in the city’s Dhurwa area. Talking to TOI, Dr Kiran Das, the in-charge of neonatal care at Rims, said, “As a precautionary step, we decided to conduct a Covid-19 test on the baby.” Das added, “The boy was suffering from physiological jaundice, which is normal for newborns. But after his Covid report returned positive, we decided to admit him to the Covid-19 neonatal nursery.” Rims’s Covid nursery has six beds, Das said and highlighted that the baby boy was the first to be admitted at the facility. On the line of his treatment, the doctor said, “Since his weight wasn’t a concern, we only ensured basic nursing and he was fed at regular intervals. On June 24, we went for another confirmatory test on an RT-PCR machine and the report was negative.” The child was finally discharged from Rims on Friday. Das claimed that this was the first case at Rims where a baby born to a Covid-positive mother also tested positive to the virus. “This is probably also the first case of its kind in the state. We received about 17 to 18 babies born of Covid-19 positive mothers in recent times, but no newborn had tested positive. In many cases, we even allowed Covid-positive mothers to keep and feed the child after taking the necessary precautions. But even those babies did not test positive. This was a unique case in that respect,” Das said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/covid-positive-9-day-old-baby-recovers/articleshow/77187509.cms||ASRP Mukesh
July 27, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami holds talks with collectors, lockdown likely till August-end||CHENNAI: Lockdown with relaxations, currently in force across Tamil Nadu, is likely to continue until August-end. While further relaxations could be considered, when chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami holds discussions with district collectors on Wednesday, the ban on public transport as well as malls and cinema halls will remain in force, official sources said. “With Covid positive numbers growing in the districts, the lockdown is likely to be continued beyond July 31, when the present lockdown comes to an end. Some more relaxations could be considered, but controls over public places and public transport will remain till at least next month,” said a state government official. On Monday, the chief minister will launch commercial operations of 11 industrial projects, for which MoUs were signed in GIM 2015 and 2019, and lay foundation stones for eight other projects. The projects include TPI Composites, an American company planning to manufacture blades for wind mills and a 2.2 million sqft IT park by Capitaland (formerly Ascendas) on Pallavaram – Thoraipakkam Radial Road, besides a manufacturing unit established by Gulf Oil, official sources said. “The CM will also lay the foundation stone for a Rs 250 crore aero hub project near Oragadam. “It will be a 5.5 lakh sq ft ‘plug and play’ facility, being developed as a joint venture by state-owned Tidco and Tidel Park. The facility will help component manufacturers to cater to the demands of the aerospace industry,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-cm-edappadi-k-palaniswami-holds-talks-with-collectors-lockdown-likely-till-august-end/articleshow/77188636.cms||D Govardan
July 27, 2020||India||Physical courts won’t open for at least 2 weeks, says SC registry||NEW DELHI: Nearly a million lawyers, facing an unprecedented financial crisis due to restricted functioning of the judiciary for over four months, will have to wait for another two weeks to know the roadmap for gradual opening of courts for physical hearing even though virtual courts will remain in place for months to come. A committee of judges comprising Justices NV Ramana, Arun Mishra, RF Nariman, UU Lalit, AM Khanwilkar, DY Chandrachud and LN Rao had a detailed interaction with medical experts as soon as the daily number of Covid patients showed a slight dip in Delhi. “The unanimous medical opinion was that while there is a marginal dip in cases in the past few days, the status quo (regarding keeping the courts shut) needs to be maintained at least for a period of two weeks,” the SC registry said. The panel sympathised with the lawyers facing hardship but felt that opening the court would make courts super spreaders of Covid. It decided not to open courts at this stageand said it would review the situation after two weeks. It said inputs from all SC advocate bodies and BCI will be taken into consideration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/physical-courts-wont-open-for-at-least-2-weeks-says-sc-registry/articleshow/77188639.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu records 6,986 new Covid cases, 85 deaths||CHENNAI: For the second consecutive day, Tamil Nadu reported close to 7,000 new Covid-19 cases. After the state witnessed the highest-ever single-day spike in cases on Saturday when 6,988 people tested positive, another 6,986 samples returned positive on Sunday taking the state’s Covid-19 tally to 2,13,723. The death toll touched 3,494 with 85 people dying. Of them, 10, including a 15-yearold from Thanjavur, had no comorbidities. Also, four of these 10 casualties were ‘brought dead’ to hospitals and samples taken later revealed that they died because of Covid-19. Almost 45% of the deaths were reported in Chennai and its three neighbouring districts -- Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur. Together, the four districts accounted for 35% of the new cases with 2,499 people testing positive. In Chennai, fewer cases were reported in old contamination zones and despite cases being reported from new areas, the daily case curve has not spiked for over a week now. However, in other districts,cases areincreasing.Virudhunagar, which has reported a high number of in the past five days, registered 385 new cases on Sunday. Ranipet reported more than 300 cases. Other southern districts such as Madurai, Dindigul, Kanyakumari, Tuticorin and Theni district had more than 200 new cases each. Tuticorin had 248 cases followed by Theni (217) and Kanyakumari (215). A doctor from Rajaji Government Hospital in Madurai said, “We are witnessing a drop in late admission rate of Covid-19 cases. We are getting some additional time to assist patients recover.” Corroborating this, official data suggested that only 28% of the deaths reported on Sunday got admitted to hospitals quite late, giving doctors less than 24 hours to treat them. In the Trichy region, Thanjavur (153 cases) recorded the highest number of cases. With four more deaths, the region has so far recorded 117 fatalities. Coimbatore (220) and Villupuram (208) are other districts where the infection rate continued to remain high. A total of 5,471 got discharged, leaving the number of active cases in the state at 53,703. The state’s testing rate continued to be high as 62,305 people were tested on Sunday at 116 labs. Seventy-eight passengers from other states and countries positive at screening camps. A total of 5,237 passengers who entered TN have tested positive so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-records-6986-new-covid-cases-85-deaths/articleshow/77188643.cms||---
July 27, 2020||India||Pandemic has worsened woes of disabled women, says study||NEW DELHI: A survivor of domestic violence, a 42 – year – old woman with a locomotor disability who lives in Thane in Maharashtra was forced to return to her marital home with her 5 - year - old daughter in the middle of the lockdown when her paternal family said they could no longer support her physically and financially. Separated from her husband and dependent on her brothers for physical assistance and financial support, she returned to her marital home using a set of keys she still had as her husband no longer lives there. He has also filed a divorce case in court. She is now living alone, is unable to pay the house rent and her daughter’s school fee while she is trying to survive with the little money she has in her savings and a nominal support of about Rs 5000 that her husband sends sometimes for house expenses. This case study is part of a report "Neglected and Forgotten: Women with disabilities during the Covid crisis in India", that highlights that in case of women with disabilities, domestic violence is not just about physical and emotional abuse but also about abandonment, deprivation from assistive devices, medicines and much needed essentials to get through the daily routine. It is also highlighted that the on ground response mechanism for domestic violence including the domestic violence law and helplines are ill-equipped to address these concerns. That the pandemic has only aggravated the problem for women with disabilities comes through in case studies like this one from Bihar where a family was found to be experiencing a cycle of abuse because of loss of employment and access to food. “In a household both husband and wife are disabled, the husband lost his job. They are unable to afford basic things like milk for their children. With growing frustration, he is beating his wife, and his wife is beating their children,” it is stated. In May 2020, between the lockdown phase 3 and 4, civil society organisations - "Rising Flame" and "Sightsavers India" undertook a study focusing on the experiences and situation of women with disabilities in the COVID-19 pandemic in India. The research is based on the experiences and feedback of 82 women with disabilities besides 12 experts across 19 states and nine self-identified disability groups. While the report looks at a range of issues like access to essentials, accessibility, livelihood, education, health and social protection, it also dedicates a chapter to domestic violence. In one case study, a 24-year-old postgraduate student from Mahasamund district, Chhattisgarh living with locomotor disability is quoted in the study where she tells that her friend – another disabled woman - living nearby, was forced to cook food for her entire family with the threat of neglect and withholding basic amenities if she did not do so. Summing up the various concerns, a deaf woman from Delhi raises a critical concern through this report. “We do not have a streamlined process on how to reach out for help and subsequent steps. Where will the women take shelter? What strategy to follow? No woman will risk their safety by making a call if there is no follow up,” she is quoted. Earlier in May, National Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People in a report on the challenges faced by persons with disabilities (PwDs) cited the case study of how a family abandoned a 49 - year old - deaf person at AIIMS-Raipur in Chhattisgarh after admitting him as a Covid-19 suspect on March 29. The same report highlighted a case from Kolkata where a 78-year-old man allegedly killed his 45-year-old disabled son in a quarrel over wearing a mask. These case studies were drawn from media reports. NCPEDP had cautioned that instances of abuse and attacks on persons with disabilities tend to go up in times of great stress. It was shared that in a series of TikTok videos shared among millions across the country, people were shown pretending to be disabled in order to deceive the authorities during lock down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pandemic-has-worsened-woes-of-disabled-women-says-study/articleshow/77188644.cms||Ambika Pandit
July 27, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra adds 2 lakh cases in July, double the tally in June||MUMBAI: The state on Sunday crossed 2 lakh cases of coronavirus infections reported in July alone. In all of June, the state had detected over 1.07 lakh cases, which shows the spread has doubled this month. Maharashtra’s cumulative Covid-19 toll stood at 3,75,799 on Sunday. For the fifth day in a row, Maharashtra reported over 9,000 new infections in its latest update, adding 9,431 cases to the tally. Pune division, including Pune city, Pimpri Chinchwad, Solapur and Satara, made up the biggest portion (3,658) in the last 24 hours, followed by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region which added 3,426 cases. The metropolis, in itself, remained in a steady band with 1,101 new additions. In deaths, MMR continued to be at the top, recording 130 of 267 deaths reported in Maharashtra in the last 24 hours. Pune division saw 75 deaths.In MMR, Mumbai contributed the highest – 57 – followed by Thane region that saw 23 deaths. The state’s overall toll has reached 13,656, including 6,093 from Mumbai, 2,346 from Thane district, 1,793 from Pune district. The case fatality rate for the state hovered at 3.63%; Mumbai’s continued to be higher at 5.58%. BMC said overall growth rate of cases in Mumbai is barely above 1% now. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, a member of the state’s technical expert committee, said a bulk of cases remain concentrated in urban areas and fringes of big cities. “Wherever lockdown has been eased, we have seen a spurt after ten days. The numbers show there are few and sporadic cases being reported from rural areas,” he said. As many as 286 fresh Covid positive cases were reported in Thane city, taking the tally here to 17,732. Two more deaths pushed the toll to 577. Activists and elected representatives have sought clarifications on the manner in which medical kits including gloves and rapid antigen kits were purchased by the Thane municipal administration. The medical community too questioned the basis on which the registration of a hospital has been cancelled following allegations of overbilling patients. The Kalyan-Dombivli corporation reported 330 new cases and nine deaths, taking total tally to 18,495 including 307 deaths. Around 5,823 patients are currently under active care. The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation, in its efforts to keep the city clean, deployed teams from the health and sanitation department and the Fire Brigade to spray sodium hypochlorite. There were 388 fresh cases in Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation areas on Sunday, taking total cases to 13,618. This is the highest single day tally in the municipality so far, and it was attributed to a larger number of antigen and mass testing being carried out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-adds-2-lakh-cases-in-july-double-the-tally-in-june/articleshow/77188641.cms||Sumitra Debroy
July 27, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra adds 2 lakh cases in July, double the tally in June||MUMBAI: The state on Sunday crossed 2 lakh cases of coronavirus infections reported in July alone. In all of June, the state had detected over 1.07 lakh cases, which shows the spread has doubled this month. Maharashtra’s cumulative Covid-19 toll stood at 3,75,799 on Sunday. For the fifth day in a row, Maharashtra reported over 9,000 new infections in its latest update, adding 9,431 cases to the tally. Pune division, including Pune city, Pimpri Chinchwad, Solapur and Satara, made up the biggest portion (3,658) in the last 24 hours, followed by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region which added 3,426 cases. The metropolis, in itself, remained in a steady band with 1,101 new additions. In deaths, MMR continued to be at the top, recording 130 of 267 deaths reported in Maharashtra in the last 24 hours. Pune division saw 75 deaths.In MMR, Mumbai contributed the highest – 57 – followed by Thane region that saw 23 deaths. The state’s overall toll has reached 13,656, including 6,093 from Mumbai, 2,346 from Thane district, 1,793 from Pune district. The case fatality rate for the state hovered at 3.63%; Mumbai’s continued to be higher at 5.58%. BMC said overall growth rate of cases in Mumbai is barely above 1% now. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, a member of the state’s technical expert committee, said a bulk of cases remain concentrated in urban areas and fringes of big cities. “Wherever lockdown has been eased, we have seen a spurt after ten days. The numbers show there are few and sporadic cases being reported from rural areas,” he said. As many as 286 fresh Covid positive cases were reported in Thane city, taking the tally here to 17,732. Two more deaths pushed the toll to 577. Activists and elected representatives have sought clarifications on the manner in which medical kits including gloves and rapid antigen kits were purchased by the Thane municipal administration. The medical community too questioned the basis on which the registration of a hospital has been cancelled following allegations of overbilling patients. The Kalyan-Dombivli corporation reported 330 new cases and nine deaths, taking total tally to 18,495 including 307 deaths. Around 5,823 patients are currently under active care. The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation, in its efforts to keep the city clean, deployed teams from the health and sanitation department and the Fire Brigade to spray sodium hypochlorite. There were 388 fresh cases in Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation areas on Sunday, taking total cases to 13,618. This is the highest single day tally in the municipality so far, and it was attributed to a larger number of antigen and mass testing being carried out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/maharashtra-adds-2-lakh-cases-in-july-double-the-tally-in-june/articleshow/77188650.cms||Sumitra Debroy
July 27, 2020||Thane||Maharashtra adds 2 lakh cases in July, double the tally in June||MUMBAI: The state on Sunday crossed 2 lakh cases of coronavirus infections reported in July alone. In all of June, the state had detected over 1.07 lakh cases, which shows the spread has doubled this month. Maharashtra’s cumulative Covid-19 toll stood at 3,75,799 on Sunday. For the fifth day in a row, Maharashtra reported over 9,000 new infections in its latest update, adding 9,431 cases to the tally. Pune division, including Pune city, Pimpri Chinchwad, Solapur and Satara, made up the biggest portion (3,658) in the last 24 hours, followed by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region which added 3,426 cases. The metropolis, in itself, remained in a steady band with 1,101 new additions. In deaths, MMR continued to be at the top, recording 130 of 267 deaths reported in Maharashtra in the last 24 hours. Pune division saw 75 deaths.In MMR, Mumbai contributed the highest – 57 – followed by Thane region that saw 23 deaths. The state’s overall toll has reached 13,656, including 6,093 from Mumbai, 2,346 from Thane district, 1,793 from Pune district. The case fatality rate for the state hovered at 3.63%; Mumbai’s continued to be higher at 5.58%. BMC said overall growth rate of cases in Mumbai is barely above 1% now. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, a member of the state’s technical expert committee, said a bulk of cases remain concentrated in urban areas and fringes of big cities. “Wherever lockdown has been eased, we have seen a spurt after ten days. The numbers show there are few and sporadic cases being reported from rural areas,” he said. As many as 286 fresh Covid positive cases were reported in Thane city, taking the tally here to 17,732. Two more deaths pushed the toll to 577. Activists and elected representatives have sought clarifications on the manner in which medical kits including gloves and rapid antigen kits were purchased by the Thane municipal administration. The medical community too questioned the basis on which the registration of a hospital has been cancelled following allegations of overbilling patients. The Kalyan-Dombivli corporation reported 330 new cases and nine deaths, taking total tally to 18,495 including 307 deaths. Around 5,823 patients are currently under active care. The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation, in its efforts to keep the city clean, deployed teams from the health and sanitation department and the Fire Brigade to spray sodium hypochlorite. There were 388 fresh cases in Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation areas on Sunday, taking total cases to 13,618. This is the highest single day tally in the municipality so far, and it was attributed to a larger number of antigen and mass testing being carried out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/maharashtra-adds-2-lakh-cases-in-july-double-the-tally-in-june/articleshow/77188648.cms||Sumitra Debroy
July 27, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra adds 2 lakh cases in July, double the tally in June||MUMBAI: The state on Sunday crossed 2 lakh cases of coronavirus infections reported in July alone. In all of June, the state had detected over 1.07 lakh cases, which shows the spread has doubled this month. Maharashtra’s cumulative Covid-19 toll stood at 3,75,799 on Sunday. For the fifth day in a row, Maharashtra reported over 9,000 new infections in its latest update, adding 9,431 cases to the tally. Pune division, including Pune city, Pimpri Chinchwad, Solapur and Satara, made up the biggest portion (3,658) in the last 24 hours, followed by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region which added 3,426 cases. The metropolis, in itself, remained in a steady band with 1,101 new additions. In deaths, MMR continued to be at the top, recording 130 of 267 deaths reported in Maharashtra in the last 24 hours. Pune division saw 75 deaths.In MMR, Mumbai contributed the highest – 57 – followed by Thane region that saw 23 deaths. The state’s overall toll has reached 13,656, including 6,093 from Mumbai, 2,346 from Thane district, 1,793 from Pune district. The case fatality rate for the state hovered at 3.63%; Mumbai’s continued to be higher at 5.58%. BMC said overall growth rate of cases in Mumbai is barely above 1% now. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, a member of the state’s technical expert committee, said a bulk of cases remain concentrated in urban areas and fringes of big cities. “Wherever lockdown has been eased, we have seen a spurt after ten days. The numbers show there are few and sporadic cases being reported from rural areas,” he said. As many as 286 fresh Covid positive cases were reported in Thane city, taking the tally here to 17,732. Two more deaths pushed the toll to 577. Activists and elected representatives have sought clarifications on the manner in which medical kits including gloves and rapid antigen kits were purchased by the Thane municipal administration. The medical community too questioned the basis on which the registration of a hospital has been cancelled following allegations of overbilling patients. The Kalyan-Dombivli corporation reported 330 new cases and nine deaths, taking total tally to 18,495 including 307 deaths. Around 5,823 patients are currently under active care. The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation, in its efforts to keep the city clean, deployed teams from the health and sanitation department and the Fire Brigade to spray sodium hypochlorite. There were 388 fresh cases in Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation areas on Sunday, taking total cases to 13,618. This is the highest single day tally in the municipality so far, and it was attributed to a larger number of antigen and mass testing being carried out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maharashtra-adds-2-lakh-cases-in-july-double-the-tally-in-june/articleshow/77188647.cms||Sumitra Debroy
July 27, 2020||Chennai||Chennai colleges to begin new session with online classes||CHENNAI: With the state government promoting all college students to the next academic year without exams in view of Covid-19, the previous academic year (2019-20) has ended. And city colleges are chalking out plans to begin the new session. After finding out that a majority of students have access to digital devices with internet, colleges are drawing up a time-table for online classes. Online classes will be made available on YouTube and other platforms so that students can access it later if they cannot stream live classes or have doubts. “We could not start the next academic year without knowing whether there will be exams or not. It has given clarity. Now, students also will be motivated to attend online classes for next semester,” said B Chidambararajan, principal of Valliammai Engineering College. Its online classes will begin on August 10. “We have conducted a trial run. Students need 700MB data for two to three hours of online classes,” he said. Students also gave feedback flagging poor connection and frequent disconnection. Some colleges have trained its faculty to take online classes. “We are planning to conduct four-hour classes per day -- two hours in the morning and two hours in the evening,” said R M Kishore, vice-chairman of RMK Engineering College. Arts and science colleges in the city are planning to take online classes. Madras Christian College (MCC) is mulling classes with flexible timings. “We plan to conduct online classes from the first week of August,” said P Wilson, MCC principal. Wilson said 93% of students have access to digital devices. “We could not reach 5% of our students due to connectivity issues,” he said. Guru Nanak College grouped students based on their schools and prepared a common time-table. “The online classes will begin from Monday. We are planning to conduct classes in the morning and webinar in the afternoon,” said M G Ragunathan, principal. The college has conducted remedial classes online for students. “The attendance is better than offline classes. During a survey, we found 98% of our students have access to gadgets with the internet,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-colleges-to-begin-new-session-with-online-classes/articleshow/77188654.cms||A Ragu Raman
July 27, 2020||Mumbai||NCP’s Sanjay Bansode is sixth minister from Maharashtra to test Covid-positive||MUMBAI: Another junior minister from the state has tested positive for Covid-19. NCP’s Sanjay Bansode, who is a junior minister in the environment department, tested positive late Saturday after he complained of fever and sore throat. He is currently admitted to a private hospital in the city. While four cabinet ministers have tested positive so far, Bansode is the second junior minister to contract the virus. Of the six, three have recovered and three are under treatment, including Bansode. Last week, another junior minister for revenue and rural development, Abdul Sattar, had tested positive. Bansode has appealed to all those who had come in contact with him in the last one week to quarantine themselves and get tested, if necessary. In a media release, Bansode said he had been continuously working ever since the Covid-19 outbreak in the state. “Since there was some work related to my constituency pending in Mantralaya, I was in Mumbai. I took ill on Saturday and got myself tested. My reports came positive on Saturday evening,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ncps-sanjay-bansode-is-sixth-minister-from-maharashtra-to-test-covid-positive/articleshow/77188664.cms||---
July 27, 2020||India||Delhi govt looks to give economy a shot in arm||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is likely to announce a series of initiatives next week for the economic revival of Delhi. With Delhi government succeeding in containing the spread of Covid-19, the focus is now on bringing the economy back on track and getting people their livelihoods, sources said. The initiative will include launch of a job portal and focus on resumption of all business activities in Delhi, including malls and hotels, sources added. Delhi government, sources said, is preparing a detailed action plan based on the suggestions of experts and industry representatives. The relief measures being planned for existing businesses and entrepreneurs who want to take up new economic activities may include allowing renewal or automatic extension of licences issued by various departments that expired in March 2020 till March 2021 without penalty, except for categories like excise, pollution control, fire safety, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/delhi-govt-looks-to-give-economy-a-shot-in-arm/articleshow/77188656.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Barring 7, all Bengaluru wards have 50 or more active Covid-19 cases||BENGALURU: Only seven of the 198 wards in the city have less than 50 active coronavirus infections. All other wards have at least 50 ongoing cases, with areas in Bengaluru South zone particularly hard hit. One of every four positive cases recorded in the city in the past 10 days was from the South zone. The seven wards that have bucked the trend are: Bilekahalli, T-Dasarahalli, Subramanya Nagar, Nayandahalli, Devarajeevanahalli, Lakshmidevi Nagar and Kuvempu Nagar. “The surprising thing about these seven wards is that 60 per cent of their population is what can be described as urban poor. People here maintain social distancing, wear a mask in public and follow other safety rules,” said a senior surveillance officer of BBMP. “There are fewer trade establishments and markets in these localities, so the movement of interstate travellers has been low.” BBMP suspects that an influx of interstate travellers partly caused the surge in Covid-19 cases in Bengaluru, though there is no definitive data on this. A senior officer from Bengaluru East zone said that localities in the said seven wards accounted for only 3 per cent of interstate and international travellers who arrived in the city following the outbreak. Locals have been largely shielded, he added. Bengaluru South zone has become a major worry for health officials as all the wards here have 50 or more active Covid-19 cases. The zone, in fact, has reported over a quarter of the city’s positive cases in the past 10 days. It includes certain parts of central business district, where traders rely on supplies from other states. “Kamakshipalya, Bapujinagar, Adugodi and SG Palya have trade establishments that depend on Maharashtra, West Bengal, Rajasthan and other states for supplies. The cases are very high in these areas. Some employees of these establishments also travel to other states and this could be a reason behind the spread of the virus,” said a senior BBMP official. An epidemiologist with BBMP said the source of infection in most of the cases in the South zone was not known. “There appears to be a local transmission. The easing of the lockdown was a clear trigger,” the epidemiologist said. Many international travellers tested positive in the area. Several traders and other citizens are asymptomatic, according to a senior IAS officer. Every day, nearly 2,700 rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests are conducted in the region. “We have increased testing because fighting the outbreak in the South zone is crucial to bringing down the city’s caseload. About 26 per cent of the city’s positive cases in the past 10 days were from this zone and it’s worrisome,” said Veerabhadra Swamy, BBMP joint commissioner (south).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/barring-7-all-bengaluru-wards-have-50-or-more-active-cases/articleshow/77188671.cms||Nithya Mandyam
July 27, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: 840 to appear for Class XII re-exam on Monday||CHENNAI: The school education department has made arrangements to conduct re-exam for Class XII exam absentees on Monday. Across the state, 840 students will write the exam at 293 exam centres. The government has announced that it would conduct re-exam for 34,864 absentees in the final Class XII exam. But it was found that only around 700 students were absent for one exam and the rest of them were absent for all exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-840-to-appear-for-class-xii-re-exam-on-monday/articleshow/77188675.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Chennai||Couple arrested for slaughtering pregnant cow in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: A special team of Tiruvallur district police arrested a couple for slaughtering a pregnant cow for meat near Uthukottai on Saturday. Based on the information provided by Sai Vignesh of Almighty Animal Care Trust, a special team was sent to Uthukottai but the couple had alraedy slaughtered the cow. After seizing the meat, the police arrested the couple who were identified as Raghu and Sarala. They were booked under Sections 188, 270, 273 of IPC and prevention of animal cruelty act by Pullarambakakm police and were released on bail. "There are guidelines for slaughterhouses which permit bulls and buffaloes of a certain age only for slaughter. While slaughtering cows and calves for meat is banned, people kill young ones for meat," Sai Vignesh said. They have rescued more than 10 cows from being slaughtered in different parts of Tiruvallur district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/couple-arrested-for-slaughtering-pregnant-cow-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/77188685.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 41-year-old cop dies of Covid-19 month after losing sister, mother||MUMBAI: A police constable from the city and a police sub-inspector from Vasai-Virar died of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the death toll in the entire state force to 95 and in the city police to 54. Constable Sohail Shaikh (41) died at Guru Nanak Hospital, Bandra, where he was admitted on June 12. An officer said he died without ever knowing that his unmarried sister aged 42 and mother aged 73 died of Covid-19 on June 26 and 28, respectively. In Vasai, the Valiv police station lost PSI Prabhakar Khot (55), its third fatality. Antigen tests on 638 personnel were done at 16 police stations in the south region on Friday and 12 tested positive. After an antibody test on Tuesday and Wednesday, four constables aged 40-45 at the Khar police station learnt they had been infected. At the Marine Drive police station, PSI Jitendra Kadam, who on May 9 was allegedly stabbed by a 27-year-old Breach Candy architect named Karan Nayar, tested Covid-19 positive. The police station has had 31 positive diagnoses in a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-41-year-old-cop-dies-month-after-losing-sister-mother/articleshow/77188686.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Schools shut for 4 months, experts fear learning gap||BENGALURU: With schools shut since early March and online classes sporadic at best, educationists have expressed fears that there could be a huge learning gap and suggested curated reopening of the institutions so that children could return to substantive schooling experience. The expert committee formed by the Karnataka government to look into online classes for children made a bouquet of suggestions — TV, radio, online, community schooling and sending worksheets home. The government has started TV classes only for the high school section yet. Rishikesh BS, associate professor with Azim Premji University, quoting researches, said school students in the US have fallen behind their expected learning levels due to the virus disruptions. In the Indian context, he suggested that the decision of reopening of schools should be made at village or taluk level — “certainly not from Bengaluru” — depending on parameters like the risk of infection, levels of interaction and open spaces available. Experts suggest curated reopening of institutions ‘Long gaps in learning could be disastrous’He said, “Thousands of schools in interiors of Karnataka are within protective bubbles, which are safe. In such areas, a curated opening with batches and for a few days of the week could be made.” According to VP Niranjanaradhya, centre for child and law, National Law School of India University, there are reports of children dropping out of schools and accompanying parents to work as labourers. “If we do not start some sort of a mechanism now, then we’ll pay a heavy price,” he added. He, too, said that each school should be given the autonomy to identify the means (online classes or staggered reopening) best suited to them. “This can start with rural schools untouched by the pandemic who can opt for some of the measures suggested by the government committee,” he added. If the rhythm is lost, getting these children back to classes is a challenge, agreed Ashvini Ranjan, managing trustee, Pratham Mysore. “We are preparing a programme to involve the whole family to help engage the child in studies that can be shared through WhatsApp. An NGO has limitations. It’s up to the government to come up with a wholesome plan,” he said. Long gaps in learning could be disastrous. Rishikesh of Azim Premji University explained: “A McKinsey study states the hurt due to the learning loss could last a lifetime. It’s proven that the negative impact is greatest for the disadvantaged communities. Scholars at Brown, Harvard and Virginia University suggest that the drop in learning gains could be as high as a third of the expected scores in reading and more than half of the expected progress in Math.” Ravi Narayan Chakrakodi, professor, Regional Institute of English, said teachers should make learning material accessible to children wherever they are, design interesting tasks that enable learning on one’s own, through peer and parental support and monitor their performance remotely. “They must plan creative ways of engaging students to ensure learning continues,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-schools-shut-for-4-months-experts-fear-learning-gap/articleshow/77188680.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
July 27, 2020||Chennai||Amid Covid campaign, Chennai corporation to focus on dengue with rains due||CHENNAI: While the entire corporation machinery has been grinding away on Covid-19 duty, the top brass has instructed the health department to also take up dengue awareness campaigns as rainy season is about to set in. Commissioner G Prakash has instructed the officials to ensure that the workers also advise public to keep their household surroundings clean and not allow water to stagnate anywhere, while visiting homes during their door to door survey. Last year, the city was divided into 3,000 blocks and a domestic breeding checker was allotted to survey 500 houses in a week to check for backyards and terraces for unused tyres, open water drums. However since, the malaria workers along with temporary volunteers are on covid-19 duty, additional responsibility is given as dengue too starts with similar symptoms, officials said. Civic body officials are however confident of greater care as fever camps are being operated in all zones in the city and focus volunteers are surveying households for symptoms every day. Officials said that special focus will be given to Government hospitals and government offices, which are right now the most active workspaces in the city. Apart from hospitals and residences, focus will also be on vacant plots. Ward teams have been instructed to first issue notices to owners of vacant lands, if not maintained properly and take a survey of vacant lands in each zone and submit to the headquarters. Last year, the civic body had identified over 24,000 vacant plots in the city. Sanitary officers will be the overseeing authority, which will be reviewed by zonal health officers,” said a senior officer with Greater Chennai Corporation. Greater Chennai Corporation has also directed its ground teams to do focused fogging to eradicate dengue spreading Aedes mosquitos in slum areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/amid-covid-campaign-chennai-corporation-to-focus-on-dengue-with-rains-due/articleshow/77188690.cms||---
July 27, 2020||India||Recite Hanuman Chalisa to get rid of Covid: Pragya Thakur||BHOPAL: BJP LS MP from Bhopal, Pragya Singh Thakur, has said reciting Hanuman Chalisa five times a day till August 5 will rid the world of Covid. “Let us make a spiritual effort together to wish people good health and end Covid epidemic. Recite Hanuman Chalisa five times a day at your home, from July 25 to August 5. Conclude it by lighting diyas on August 5 and offering ‘aarti’ to Lord Ram at home. We will be free fromCovid,” she tweeted. Congress hit out at Pragya for trying to extract political milea ge out of the crisis. “Where was the so-called Sadhvi for the past four months when people were in distress and seeking relief.?"||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/recite-hanuman-chalisa-to-get-rid-of-covid-pragya-thakur/articleshow/77188682.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Bengaluru||Bangalore Development Authority to penalise officials who allowed illegal constructions||BENGALURU: The Bangalore Development Authority , while regularising illegally constructed properties on its land, has decided to levy hefty penalty on engineers who sanctioned them. On July 21, the government notified Bangalore Development Authority (allotment of unauthorised site with buildings) Rules, 2020, reiterating its decision to regularise illegal constructions on BDA properties. For the purpose of regularisation, BDA said the owner has to pay an initial fee of Rs 500 along with a form and provide any one proof of residence dating back to 12 years from July 21. These may include encumbrance certificate from the date of purchase from the original land owner to till date, photos of the site with building, tax paid receipt of the building for 12 years, certified copy of the khata, khata extract, proof of water connection since 12 years, proof of electricity connection since 12 years or proof of presence of building for past 12 years. 75,000 properties across cityAs many as 75,000 illegal properties are scheduled to be regularised by the government in the city. But more interestingly, the government has included a penal clause against assistant engineers, assistant executive engineers and executive engineers, who were guilty of either “turning a blind eye” or “conniving” with the owners to allow such encroachments over the last three to four decades. “All those who are guilty of allowing unauthorised constructions and encroachments will be held accountable and liable under the new rules,” said BDA commissioner HR Mahadev. “Notwithstanding anything contained in the disciplinary rules applicable, the competent authority shall issue a show-cause notice to the jurisdictional officer concerned and seek explanation in writing within15 days for his failure to prevent unauthorised occupation or construction in contravention of provisions of the Act…,” the rules state. This means even engineers who have retired from service will be held liable and have to cough up fines ranging from Rs 10,000 and above depending on the number of offences. Asked if BDAhas powers to issue show-cause notice and collect fines from even those who have retired from service, the commissioner said: “There are provisions to collect fine from them as well.” Yet another reason for holding officials accountable is to ensure if the government decision to regularise illegal constructions is challenged in court, then the state has proof of action initiated against officials, who allowed them to happen in the first place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bangalore-development-authority-to-penalise-officials-who-allowed-illegal-constructions/articleshow/77188697.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
July 27, 2020||Gurgaon||‘With fake news & censoring, UC acts at China’s behest’||GURUGRAM: A former employee of UCWeb Mobile Pvt Ltd, a group company owned by the Jack Ma-Led Chinese internet giant Alibaba, has filed a lawsuit in a Gurugram court, accusing the firm of acting at China’s behest to spread fake news and misinformation in India, censoring content ‘sensitive’ for Beijing, and hacking the IRCTC website for information, among other things. Based on the lawsuit — filed after India banned 59 Chinese apps on June 29 in the wake of the military faceoff with China in Ladakh — the court has issued summons to Alibaba, Jack Ma and 13 others named by petitioner Pushpandra SinghParmar.UCWeb runs the UC Browser. Among instances of fake news the plea mentions are a report on a ban on Rs 2,000 notes published a year after demonetisation in 2017, one on a communal attack during Gujarat assembly polls the same year and another, later, on India and Pakistan going to war. Other instances cited include fake news about PM Modi and Congress chief Sonia Gandhi. The summons were issued on July 20, the same day Parmar filed his petition in the court of civil judge Sonia Sheokhand, who directed the respondents to appear in person or through a lawyer on July 27. The basis of Parmar’s petition is his termination from the company in 2017, which he alleges was illegal and a consequence of him bringing these issues up with the senior management. The case is significant as the allegations highlight the perception that Chinese businesses are linked to the state machinery and used to extract data from other countries and are part of an information war directed by Beijing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/with-fake-news-censoring-uc-acts-at-chinas-behest/articleshow/77188700.cms||Shubhra Pant
July 27, 2020||India||Cops to summon AI execs in gold smuggling case||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The crime branch probe into fake document case involving Swapna Suresh against an Air India officer has gathered momentum following the gold smuggling case probe. The crime branch has decided to summon Air India executive director (disinvestment) Uma Maheshwari and other ICC members to Thiruvananthapuram for their statements in the fake document case. This will be the second time crime branch is summoning top Air India officials in the case. “They will have to be summoned again since there are some missing links. We have to get more clarity on their earlier statements,” said B Anil Kumar, DSP, crime branch, who is probing the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cops-to-summon-ai-execs-in-gold-smuggling-case/articleshow/77188702.cms||---
July 27, 2020||World||Wuhan lab creating anthrax-like pathogens in Pakistan: Report||ISLAMABAD: Pakistan and China have concluded a secret deal to expand potential biowarfare capabilities, including running research projects related to the deadly anthrax, an Australian media report has alleged, prompting Pakistan to dismiss it as a “politically motivated and fake story”. In an article published on July 23, investigative newspaper Klaxon said China’s Wuhan Institute of Virology has signed a covert three-year deal with Pakistan military’s Defense Science and Technology Organization to collaborate research in “emerging infectious diseases”. Pakistan’s foreign office (FO), on Sunday, described the article as a “politically motivated and fake story” and said it was composed of “distortion of facts and fabrications that quote anonymous sources”. “There is nothing secret about the Bio-Safety Level-3 (BSL-3) Laboratory of Pakistan referred to in the report. Pakistan has been sharing information about the facility with the States Parties to the Biological and Toxins Weapons Convention (BTWC) in its submission of Confidence Building Measures,” the FO said. Quoting anonymous intelligence sources, Klaxon said the China-funded project has conducted “successful soil sampling tests” to isolate Bacillus Thuringiensis, which has a “striking similarity” to Bacillus Anthracis — or anthrax, a classified bio-warfare agent. “Considering the striking similarity between BT and Bacillus Anthracis, (Pakistan’s) improved know-how in handling the bacteria could enrich a potential offensive biological programme,” one source said. The Wuhan lab was providing “extensive training on manipulation of pathogens and bio-informatics” to Pakistani scientists “to help Pakistan develop its own virus collection database”, the report said. “This could help Pakistan enhance its capability of genetic identification of viruses, access to dangerous microorganisms, and use of genomic tools for research and infectious diseases,” an intelligence source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/wuhan-lab-creating-anthrax-like-pathogens-in-pakistan-report/articleshow/77188712.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Chennai||Poor handling of biomedical waste puts Chennai under threat||CHENNAI: Household generation of biomedical waste has more than tripled, from around five tonnes a day before March to 16-17 tonnes now, across 15 zones of the Greater Chennai Corporation. But only one-third of it is handled at the Manali incineration plant. The rest is either burnt or buried in unused burial grounds. TOI has also reported instances of it being dumped in roadside bins. The Manali plant can treat only 5 tonnes a day and is shut down every fifth day for maintenance. Every day, conservancy workers wearing PPE kits and collect bio-medical waste from Covid positive houses and take it to the ward office. If the collection is more than 500kg, it is sent to the Manali plant. Otherwise, the waste is buried locally in a deep pit, said a corporation official. The waste generated from Covid care centres, urban primary health care centres and hospitals is collected by two contractors listed by the Central Pollution Control Board. “Last week, we signed the contract with two companies that will be responsible for collection and disposal of the medical waste. We will pay them based on the quantity collected,” said Vijula, executive engineer, solid waste management department. But what about the biomedical waste from non-Covid households? The rules say the municipal corporation should set up a treatment facility. Or it should tie up with companies with expertise in disposal. Under no circumstances can this waste be mixed with other solid waste. In the city, bio-medical waste from non-Covid homes is collected unsegregated and dumped at Perungudi or Kodungaiyur. G Veerappan, superintendent engineer for solid waste management, said, they cannot ask the workers to segregate the waste as there is risk of infection. “If residents give it separately, workers will collect it and send it to the incineration plant. But that is not being done.” “The civic body should sign agreements with these companies and hand over the waste to them. Hospitals and other mass generators should also do the same. We can only monitor but it is the responsibility of the local body to implement,” said a senior TNPCB official. N Sriram, managing trustee, Samriddhi foundation, said, “Not just the corporation, many hospitals are not following the new guidelines. Everything is going to land up in landfill that are already overflowing or end up in unauthorised lands.” V Sriram, president of exnora club Porur, said, they are creating awareness in residential welfare associations and are motivating people to segregate medical waste. “But workers continue to dump it along with other solid waste,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/poor-handling-of-biomedical-waste-puts-chennai-under-threat/articleshow/77188710.cms||Komal Gautham
July 27, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Is Sunday curfew helping us? Not everyone is sure||CHENNAI: Chennai has enforced complete lockdown on Sunday for a while now but experts and doctors stand divided on whether one-day lockdown will help the government in controlling the spread of Covid-19. While some said that there was no clear evidence so far that it has reduced transmission as markets and shops remain overcrowded every Saturday,, others said that poor implementation of a lockdown can’t be a reason to undermine its effectiveness. Some even say that excess crowding on Saturdays could accelerate Covid-19 transmission rate and might see Chennai achieve herd immunity soon. Any lockdown has two effects. First it slows down the epidemic and then the time towards reaching herd immunity. But in this case where there is a heavy rush in markets the day before, it might facilitate faster transmission. According to Jayaprakash Muliyil, Chairman of the Scientific Advisory Committee of the National Institute of Epidemiology, it can be interpreted either way. “Anyway, Chennai is fast approaching the herd level that I have mentioned in the past as old containment zones were reporting lesser cases and cases are picking up in new areas. These two phenomena put together you still have a flat line (infection curve),” the epidemiologist added. Official Data says that Chennai has reported about 1,100-1,300 new cases everyday last week. Public health expert P Kuganantham, who is a member of the governmentappointed expert medical committee, however asserted that Sunday lockdowns have helped in breaking the transmission chain and has reduced disease spread in Chennai. Though shops were crowded on Saturdays, it would have been the case on any other day too. But Sundays were chosen because public movement was much higher in the city on this day (particularly at meat shops and markets) compared to any other day in the week, he added. Private hospital doctors said that an epidemic usually is supposed to reduce in about 100 days but lockdowns have prolonged it and if there are enough beds in hospitals the idea should be to reduce the duration of the epidemic. AM Vikramaraja, president, Federation of Tamil Nadu Traders’ Association said that neighbouring states like Karnataka have declared that lockdown was not the solution and TN by enforcing such restrictions on Sundays was only making things worse. “Just like few markets in Delhi which are allowed to operate 24/7, Tamil Nadu too should increase working hours to reduce crowd. Markets can even work in three shifts. By this, police and corporation officials can ensure that everybody wore masks and maintained social distancing,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-is-sunday-curfew-helping-us-not-everyone-is-sure/articleshow/77188722.cms||Ram Sundaram
July 27, 2020||World||Tropical Depression Hanna drenches Texas amid virus crisis||CORPUS CHRISTI, Texas: A day after roaring ashore as a hurricane, Hanna lashed the Texas Gulf Coast on Sunday with high winds and drenching rains that destroyed boats, flooded streets and knocked out power across a region already reeling from a surge in coronavirus cases. Downgraded to a tropical depression, Hanna passed over the U.S.-Mexico border with winds near 50 mph (85 kph), the National Hurricane Center said. It unloaded more than 12 inches (30 centimeters) of rain on parts of South Texas and northeastern Mexico. Border communities whose health care systems were already strained by COVID-19 cases _ with some patients being airlifted to larger cities _ found themselves under siege from the first hurricane of the 2020 Atlantic season. There were no immediate reports of any deaths on either side of the border. Dr. Ivan Melendez, the health authority in Hidalgo County, Texas, was treating a patient overnight at a hospital when he and a nurse noticed water streaming down a wall and pooling on the floor. The water was flowing through a vent in the room, which had been retrofitted with a fan to create negative pressure and prevent the virus spreading through the hospital. After driving home in the storm in the middle of the night, Melendez was trapped Sunday morning in his home by downed trees and had no electricity. He used the phone to discuss whether to put a 58-year-old woman on a ventilator, a decision he felt uncomfortable making without seeing the patient in person. ``You look at the people's eyes,'' he said. ``You'll know if they're in despair.'' Another doctor decided to place the woman on the ventilator, he said later. Henry Van De Putte, CEO of the Red Cross' Texas Gulf Coast chapter, said the organization would open more shelters with reduced capacity to ensure social distancing. Volunteers and people seeking refuge will undergo temperature checks, and a medical professional will be assigned to each location, he said. A community building known as the ``Dome'' in Mercedes, Texas, was set aside for evacuees who had tested positive for COVID-19 or were exposed to the virus. Across the region, shelters were also opened in hotels, schools and gyms. Van De Putte emphasized that people should not delay seeking help because of the virus. ``Yes, coronavirus provides risk, but so does floodwater, so does not having electricity, so does not having required medications,'' he said. ``We're doing everything we can do possible to make it a safe environment.'' In the Mexican border city of Reynosa, a maternity hospital was damaged by heavy rain, and water had to be pumped out, authorities said. Some patients had to be moved to upper floors, and a few were evacuated to other hospitals, said Pedro Granados, director of civil protection for Tamaulipas state. Coastal states scrambled this spring to adjust emergency hurricane plans to account for the virus, and Hanna was the first big test. Gov. Greg Abbott said Saturday that some people in need of shelter would be given hotel rooms to keep them apart from others. Abbott announced Sunday that the Federal Emergency Management Agency approved an emergency declaration that will provide federal aid. Hanna blew ashore as a Category 1 storm late Saturday afternoon with winds of 90 mph (145 kph) not far from Port Mansfield, which is about 130 miles (210 kilometers) south of Corpus Christi. Myrle Tucker, 83, tried to ride out the storm in a powerboat docked in a Corpus Christi marina. But winds and rain blew out the vessel's windows. Eventually rescuers in a dinghy were able to reach him and bring him to shore. Many other boats were flooded and lashed by the storm. Tucker said he told his rescuers he wasn't sure he would be able to climb out of his boat. ``They picked me up,'' he said. ``They carried me like a box of napkins.'' More than 150,000 customers lost power Sunday throughout South Texas, including Corpus Christi, Harlingen and Brownsville, utility officials said. Corpus Christi is in Nueces County, where 60 babies tested positive for Covid-19 from July 1 to July 16. Farther south in Cameron County, more than 300 new cases have been reported almost daily for the past two weeks. The past week has also been the county's deadliest of the pandemic. Hanna came nearly three years after Hurricane Harvey blew ashore northeast of Corpus Christi. Hanna was not expected to be as destructive as Harvey, which killed 68 people and caused an estimated $125 billion in damage in Texas. In the Mexican city of Matamoros, across from Brownsville, the rains shook tents in a refugee camp housing an estimated 1,300 asylum seekers, including newborns and elderly people, who have been waiting for months for court dates under a U.S. immigration policy informally known as ``Remain in Mexico.'' In the Pacific Ocean, meanwhile, Hurricane Douglas closed in on Hawaii over the weekend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/tropical-depression-hanna-drenches-texas-amid-virus-crisis/articleshow/77188747.cms||---
July 27, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: 17% drop in people at fever camps, influenza-like illnesses cases fall by 3%||CHENNAI: There is a 17% drop in the number of people visiting fever camps conducted by Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), but only a 3% drop in the number of people with influenza-like illnesses, official data shows. For instance, from June 19 to July 5, around 32,500 people visited fever camps every day. However, from July 6 to 25, the number has come down to 26,949 . However, there has not been a proportionate decrease in the number of Influenza like Illness (ILI) cases that GCC detects through these camps. Though the number of people attending decreased by 17%, the number of ILI cases detected every day at these camps decreased only by around 3%.. This means that despite fewer people coming in for medical camps, the percentage of symptomatic people being detected was higher. For instance, during the intense lockdown, of the people coming to fever camps, only around 5.7 % were detected to have ILI symptoms, of whom 93% were asked to give their swabs for Covid-19 testing. After the lockdown relaxation, 6.6% of people coming to fever camps everyday were found to have ILI symptoms, of whom 98% were asked to give their swabs. GCC sources say that during the lockdown, they screened more, as 95% of people had to stay home and hence attended fever camps in case of symptoms. “After relaxation, it is obvious the number will dwindle a bit,” a source said. As of July 23, GCC has detected 70,635 ILI cases, of whom 14,131 have tested positive for Covid-19, which comes to 20%. Maximum number of Covid-19 cases from fever camps has been detected at Anna Nagar zone, while second comes Tondiarpet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-17-drop-in-people-at-fever-camps-influenza-like-illnesses-cases-fall-by-3/articleshow/77188751.cms||---
