July 28, 2020||Chennai||#SaveVedanthangal: Students turn artivists to raise awareness about the sanctuary||Soon after the Tamil Nadu government’s proposal to the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) to denotify 2km of the Vedanthangal Bird Sanctuary, several activists and environmentalists came up with online campaigns, urging action to save the sanctuary. Joining the chorus now are school students, who have been creating awareness about the protected area through their artworks. “There’s threat from encroachers and we need to protect the sanctuary,” begins Deanna Michael, a Class 9 student, referring to a few industries close to the sanctuary, “Due to the pandemic, we cannot step outside and protest. So, we decided to draw pictures to show our solidarity.” Yuvan M, a nature educator from Chennai, had first mooted this idea among his students from Abacus Montessori School. He says, “The idea came from the Dehing Patkai Elephant Reserve (in Assam) art campaign, which forced authorities to pass orders to stop mining activities there. I checked with a few other nature educators in Chennai and together, we’ve got around 170 artworks on the theme ‘Save Vedanthangal’.” Abishek Venkat, an environmental educator at HLC International School, says, “We discussed this in our student-led forum called Octopus, which was also attended by wildlife photographer Ramnath Chandrasekhar. I share the artworks with Ramnath and he posts them on relevant groups.” G Amiga, a Class 7 student, says, “I have fond memories of identifying birds at Vedanthangal. That inspired me to paint.” Another student, Dhriti Deepak, adds, “The presence of industries in the area is not good for the flora and fauna, and that’s what my picture depicts.” Yuvan chips in, “Water bodies are getting polluted and the villagers are complaining about lack of clean drinking water and related health issues.” Sara Mohan from The Ecology Project says, “Even kids who’ve not been to Vedanthangal have done some great artworks by simply hearing about the issue.” Among them is Dhavedha Darshini N, a Class 9 student. “I thought about pain from a bird’s point of view — to lose someone from their flock and see their young ones in agony.”  Meanwhile, Sahasra Sridhar, a Class 6 student, has written a poem on the subject. “I like both zoology and literature. So, I thought why not combine both to create awareness. My poem is titled ‘Why Buffer When Birds Will Suffer?’,” she tells us. A protected area for centuries There’s a main lake and 80 small lakes that are all connected in Vedanthangal. It follows the eri system, which helps in recharging groundwater and preventing flooding. Vedanthangal is assumed to be a hunter’s hamlet, but that’s wrong. ‘Thangal’ means an irrigation tank; it has been being protected by the community here for centuries. According to records, in 1790, the villagers got a cowle from L Place, the then district collector, to ensure Vedanthangal becomes a hunting-free zone. Later, it became a reserve forest and finally, in 1998, a wildlife sanctuary. - M Yuvan, nature educator Authorities say... The protected area at the Vedanthangal bird sanctuary hasn’t reduced and zonation work will not help the private sector eat into the sanctuary. It’s proposed to the centre for approval that the first kilometre around the sanctuary be the core area, the next 2km the buffer zone and another 2km the ecologically sensitive zone. People have been involved in agriculture even before a 5km area was declared a sanctuary and entrepreneurs, too, have set up businesses. Demarcating different zones will help in proper administration and better implementation of Forest Conservation Act, Wildlife Protection Act and Environmental Protection Act without affecting the livelihood of local people.  - Excerpts from a statement by the state chief wildlife warden S Yuvaraj, published on June 10 in TOI Why the surrounding landscape is important Ecological entities never follow legal boundaries and nearly always extend beyond what laws recognise. If the landscapes around an ecological entity like Vedanthangal changes, it is bound to have an impact on the sanctuary. The locals claim that they are already impacted by the industries’ water requirements and their toxic effluents. They also say that it has already affected agriculture and their livestock. Any law that permits drastic change of surrounding landscape will compound these existing disruptors. - Hopeland P, independent wildlife researcher||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/savevedanthangal-students-turn-artivists-to-raise-awareness-about-the-sanctuary/articleshow/77207081.cms||Ashish Ittyerah Joseph
July 28, 2020||Indore||Indore’s leather toys market in shambles with nil export||INDORE: The Covid-19 pandemic has left the GI-tagged (geographical indication) leather toys of Indore in disarray with almost nil export since the beginning of the year raising worries for manufacturers. Manufacturers of leather toys claimed to have not received a single order since the pandemic reducing export to zero. Leather toys manufacturer Suber Rampurwala said, "Leather toys market was anyway not doing well since past many years but the spread of Covid-19 has shattered it. Post-Covid, we don’t have any order for leather animals". Manufacturers said the demand for leisure and decor items have dropped post-Covid-19 and leather toys being a decorative item, its market has lost its sheen. Indore is famous in the international market for its life-size tanned leather animals with elephant, giraffe, horse, tiger and black panther being the most in demand. These leather toys are available in various sizes starting from six inches to life-size. A second generation manufacturer Surendra Singh Thakur, owner of a 60-year-old leather toys’ unit said, “I have never seen such a slump in business. Despite slow growth, the sale was continuing but since the beginning of this year, we have not shipped a single product.” The United States and European countries are the major market of leather toys. Manufacturers said most of them used to export to the United States from Indore but have not received any order from bulk buyers since February. Amidst the pandemic, a few manufacturers are also contemplating to opt for online platforms to sell products. Thakur said, “Looking at the scenario, offline sales are looking difficult. We are now thinking of going online to sell our products to survive in the business.” The association of leather toys manufacturers have pegged the turnover of leather toys from Indore close to Rs 10 crore. Leather toys manufacturers are now pinning hopes on upcoming Christmas season to return to business and demanded a designing facility from the state government to boost the ailing sector. Manufacturers said they hope to receive some fresh orders by the end of August ahead of Christmas and for this they have already started preparations, getting supplies of raw materials and manpower.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/indores-leather-toys-market-in-shambles-with-nil-export/articleshow/77207292.cms||Meenakshi Sharma
July 28, 2020||India||Officer behind Centre's Swachhta drive quits||NEW DELHI: Union drinking water and sanitation secretary, Parameswaran Iyer, considered as one of the PM’s favourite bureaucrats, has resigned from the post, an order posted by personnel ministry said. Iyer’s resignation has been accepted with effect from August 21. He didn’t respond to several calls by this TOI correspondent. Sources said a major event has been planned to celebrate the success of Swachh Bharat Mission at Gandhi Smriti next month before Iyer’s retirement. A 1981-batch IAS officer of Uttar Pradesh cadre, Iyer had taken voluntary retirement from the service in 2009. He was brought back as drinking water and sanitation secretary through lateral entry in 2016 on a contractual basis when the ministry was struggling to accelerate PM’s flagship Swachh Bharat Mission in rural areas. Well-known as a sanitation specialist the government had given two extensions to Iyer till April 30, 2021. Iyer had set an example for others when he got inside a twin pit to empty it at Gangadevipally village in Telangana in February 2017 "to beat the taboo". PM had mentioned this act in his monthly radio programme ‘Mann ki Baat’ calling it as “remarkable”. In April 2018, PM Modi had taken Iyer’s name at a mammoth convention of Swachhgrahis at Champaran in Bihar and had applauded his leadership in making rural India open defecation free. He had asked cameramen to focus on Iyer and not on him as a real hero while appreciating his work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/officer-behind-centres-swachhta-drive-quits/articleshow/77207702.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Only 38% junior colleges apply for affiliation, 4 lakh Inter seats at stake||HYDERABAD: The 5.3 lakh SSC students promoted without exam this year may face a daunting task to secure Intermediate admission as only 38% (1,057) junior colleges have applied for affiliation as against 2,786 in 2019-20. Last date for college managements to apply for affiliation without late fee ended on July 25. There could be a drastic reduction in the number of seats if this trend continues. Of the 1,057 colleges, hardly 300 are said to be private colleges with the remaining being government colleges or those under the government sector. Last year, a total of 2,570 colleges including 1,486 private and corporate junior colleges were granted affiliation. “If the remaining 1,100 to 1,200 colleges fail to apply for affiliation this year, the seats will go down by at least 3.5 to 4 lakh seats,” said V Narender Reddy, president, Telangana Private Junior Colleges Management Association. He said that unless government does away with fire NOCs for colleges below 15 meters height, colleges will not be eligible to get affiliation. Until 2020-21, colleges with over 15 meters of height had to provide a NOC from the fire department for sanction of affiliation. However, in February 2020, it was made mandatory for colleges above 6 metres height to submit a NOC. “This rule is neither applicable for schools nor degree colleges. It is only for junior colleges and is against national building act. Government should withdraw the new rule. If not, colleges will have no option except to shut their shops and it will be a loss for students as there won’t be enough intermediate seats in the state,” said G Satish of TPJMA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/only-38-jr-colleges-apply-for-affiliation-4l-inter-seats-at-stake/articleshow/77208041.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
July 28, 2020||Kolkata||Virtual classes rekindle schoolkids’ bond with grandparents in the lockdown||One of Namita Roy’s biggest regrets is not being able to complete her graduation. She was 13 when her father passed away and the circumstances compelled her to quit her education and get married at the age of 17. After almost six decades, the 71-year-old grandmother has started feeling like a child once again. When her grandson’s school shifted to virtual classes in the lockdown, Namita suddenly found a way to realise her long pending dream. As Rishi (name changed) attends online classes, she supervises him as a guardian, trying to learn maths, history and geography lessons. “I’m struggling a bit because of my weak English, but Rishi helps me a lot. He is even teaching me how to use a smartphone and computer!” she exclaimed. In exchange, Namita takes Rishi on a trip to the magical lands – where Bangoma and Bangomi have all the answers and a smart Tuntuni (tailorbird) teaches a lesson to the king – through her excellent storytelling skills. While the lockdown has brought reasons to complain for many, it is also helping to rekindle the age-old bond between grandparents and grandchildren, which was on the decline in the fast-paced world brought to a sudden halt by the pandemic.  Grandparents revisit childhoodMost schools ask for parental supervision during online classes. With many working parents staying away since Unlock 1.0, grandparents have taken over the job. Gouri Chakraborty, a retired school teacher, has become the new best friend of Aditri Chakraborty, a Class I student, both of whose parents are working. Gouri not just accompanies Aditri during her online classes but also thoroughly enjoys the virtual classroom. "After my retirement in 2013, I never expected to experience the classroom atmosphere again. But my granddaughter has made it possible," said Gouri. After completing her schooling, Pronomi Halder, 75, enrolled on a graduation course from Vivekananda College for Women, but she could not continue till the end. "Now, when I accompany my granddaughter Anandi for her online classes, I realise that education has become much simpler. We used to learn the same things in complicated ways. Modern teaching techniques have made things much easier. It feels great to be a part of the classroom once again," she smiled. Double bonanza for kidsThe process is a double bonanza for the children who are not just getting the invaluable company of their grandparents, but also learning about age-old traditions, games and fables, which in turn is helping them gain a new perspective. Aditri, who till March didn't know what Kumir Danga was, now spends her evenings playing the traditional game of Bengal with Gouri. They use the doormats as danga (land) and the floor as water. Not just Kumir Danga, Aditri has started enjoying many other traditional Bengali games. Besides, she also learnt about Pagla Dashu and Tagore's Birpurush from her beloved grandmother in the lockdown months. Similarly, Prithyraj Dey Sarkar, a Class IV student of a south Kolkata school, recently learnt about the 108 names of Lord Krishna and Jatayu, the brave bird, thanks to his grandfather, Hiranmoy Sarkar. "Dadabhai tells me stories from the Mahabharata and tales of Aesop. But more than those I love listening to stories from his childhood. I still can’t believe he could climb a coconut tree!" said Prithyraj. Anandi too enjoys stories about her grandmother's childhood, especially what all Pronomi's grandfather had to go through while establishing Behala Girls’ High School. Tech lessons for the elderlyThis traffic of knowledge, however, is not one-way. While the children are learning about old traditions, the grandparents are becoming more tech savvy. Hiranmoy, who always chose to stay away from smartphones and computers because he found it utterly confusing, bought a smartphone in the lockdown and can now write and send emails too. Meanwhile, Aditri is making sure her grandmother learns how to click and share photos on WhatsApp. "Though I’ve always stayed away from anything related to technology, I had to learn a few things about the latest technology to supervise Aditri. Now she is adamant that I learn it properly," said Gouri. ‘Grandparents spend quality time with kids’Grandparents work as an emotional support system for the child, which is very important for the child’s development. Besides, grandparents are probably the only members of the family who can spend quality time with children. While the child plays the leader and controls the content of the time, both of them enjoy the time equally. During quality time, the caregiver will not push the child to learn something. We often see that most parents fail to do this because of their anxieties. They inadvertently try to teach something to the child and that makes the quality timeboring. But grandparents can do this easily and that’s why their company is so important and often craved by the children. The company of the grandparents is excellent until they become the reasonforconflict in parenting. Say, if the mother is scolding the child for doing something wrong and the grandmother suddenly intervenes and tries to stop the mother. This creates confusion for the child. If this can be avoided, then there is nothing like the company of grandparents.  — Dr Anirban Ray, practising psychologist||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/virtual-classes-rekindle-schoolkids-bond-with-grandparents-in-the-lockdown/articleshow/77208387.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
July 28, 2020||India||After lockdown blues, Goans on a mission to grow more greens||Goa felt the lockdown on its palate. The supply of vegetables from Belagavi in Karnataka, and Kolhapur, Nashik and Solapur in Maharashtra dried up. Shrivelled beans demanded plump prices. Ashok Dande, an organic farmer in Taleigao village, was among the few who didn’t feel the shortage. He’s grown fruit and vegetables in his garden for almost 60 years. “Because we depend on other states for vegetables, we have to accept substandard produce,” Dande voices disapproval. “It is not too late to start cultivation of crops within the state.” It’s a view shared by many Goans now. Kitchen gardens are back in vogue after a long time as people try to grow their own food in the comfort of their home. In villages, fallow lands are being ploughed after years, even decades. The lessons of the lockdown are not lost. “We bought rice for thrice the price,” says Elsa Fernandes, a resident of Santa Cruz who is studying environmental architecture. “It was down to not using the land we have. Only agriculture can support us when every other sector shuts down.” Santa Cruz has khazan (reclaimed) lands bordering other villages and the capital, Panaji, that were left fallow because the sluice gates on a stream and the bund were not maintained. But during the lockdown, the village residents formed two new farmer associations and identified land in three wards for cultivation. In fact, community farming has caught on across the state in the past few months. Nestor Rangel, who pioneered community farming in the island village of St Estevam in 2018, says he is flooded with enquiries. Read more from this series“We are growing paddy in July, and after harvesting it, we’ll sow pulses and vegetables in November-December,” says Olavio Fernandes, one of the new farmers in Santa Cruz. Altogether, 50 villagers have started farming the khazan lands that stretch over the neighbouring villages of Dongrim and Neura. In Neura, farmers have planted paddy seedlings on the khazans. In Dongrim, the khazans were submerged for 25 years, but now the water has been drained and bunds built around the land. Perpetua Araujo, a retired school teacher, is showing the way on the island of Divar, where she has leased 8,000 sq m. “After growing rice in the Kharif season and vegetables in the Rabi season, I intend to take up hydroponics (growing plants in water instead of soil),” she says. The Goa government is helping farmers with a 50% subsidy on vegetable seeds. State agriculture director Nevil Alphonso says the number of applicants for the subsidy has doubled this year. (This story is part of a series in association with Facebook. Facebook has no editorial role in this story.)Watch Covid-19 crisis: Goans on a mission to grow more greens, after lockdown blues||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-lockdown-blues-goans-on-a-mission-to-grow-more-greens/articleshow/77202262.cms||Nida Sayed
July 28, 2020||Goa||Mumbai City agree to pay record Rs 1.6 crore transfer fee to sign Hugo from FC Goa||PANAJI: FC Goa are about to lose their most valued player as Mumbai City FC have agreed to meet the buy-out clause for Hugo Boumous. Boumous was the best player by a mile during last season of Indian Super League (ISL) and a prime reason why FC Goa finished on top of the league ladder. His eye-catching displays, 11 goals and 10 assists made him a unanimous choice for the Golden Ball, awarded to the best player in the league. Now when the club makes its debut in the high-profile AFC Champions League – a first for an Indian club – Boumous will be at Mumbai, thanks to the approximately Rs 1.6 crore that they will pay FC Goa to sign him. “Dear Goa, I would like to announce that my journey with @fcgoaofficial is over. It has been a hard decision to make. I'm grateful to have represented the colours and the state of Goa across India. Thanks for all the love I received from the fans during the 2 years spending with you,” Boumous said in a social media post on Monday. The post took everyone by surprise. In several interviews, including one with TOI in June, Boumous had said he was unsure of continuing in Goa. But there was no denying that the French forward is contracted with the club till 2022 Boumous’s sudden ‘goodbye’ on Monday didn’t go down well with the club. “The club would like to state that Hugo Boumous continues to remain a contracted player with FC Goa. There is no agreement that has been reached with any club on the same. At this moment, the club would like to distance itself from any communication that may claim otherwise,” FC Goa said in a post of their own on social media. While it’s true that Boumous continues to be a FC Goa player, he may not remain for long. According to sources, Mumbai have now made an offer to buy out the player’s contract and it’s only a matter of time before an agreement is reached. FC Goa have always maintained that their best player is not for sale. However, like FC Goa’s director of football, Ravi Puskur, said in a previous interview with TOI, the club would be helpless “if something drastic happens where someone takes a decision completely out of our hands.” That time has arrived. Mumbai have told FC Goa in an official email that they will meet the buy-out clause which is understood to be Rs 1.6 crore. As and when the move is completed, Mumbai would have paid a record transfer fee, much higher than the Rs 1 crore that Japanese club Albirex Niigata paid Chennai City FC early this year for Spanish striker Pedro Manzi. Buy-out clauses are common in professional football contracts and stipulates the amount that the player — through the buying club — shall pay to the selling club as compensation in order to unilaterally terminate the contract. By paying this amount to the club — decided at the time of signing — the player is entitled to terminate the employment contract without a valid reason. PSG famously met the buy-out clause when FC Barcelona were refusing to sell Brazilian star Neymar. FC Goa will hate to lose another player to Mumbai. The league champions have already lost captain Mandar Rao Desai, Moroccan midfielder Ahmed Jahouh and Senegalese defender Mourtada Fall to Mumbai, who will now be coached by Sergio Lobera, formerly with FC Goa. “It’s been an absolute pleasure working with all the staff and teammates. So many memories for the rest of my life and I’ll always have you in my heart. Special mention to our fanbase @gaurarmy @fcgoafanclub @eastlowerarmy for ur extraordinary support. I wish the club nothing but the best for the future,” Boumous said in his post. While FC Goa were resigned to losing their best player, they didn’t expect such a goodbye. Boumous, though, knew what he was doing. Mumbai are waiting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mumbai-city-agree-to-pay-record-rs-1-6-crore-transfer-fee-to-sign-hugo-from-fc-goa/articleshow/77208635.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
July 28, 2020||Business||Government bars 47 clones of banned Chinese apps||NEW DELHI: The government crackdown on Chinese apps continues, with the information and technology ministry banning 47 new apps. The move comes nearly a month after the ban on 59 Chinese apps, taking the total number of mobile applications blocked to 106. The new apps include clones and different versions of some of the original apps, official sources said, adding that action may soon be taken against more Chinese apps operating in India. Read AlsoEye on China, quality curbs on 370 itemsNearly 371 categories of items such as toys, steel bars &amp; tubes, consumer electronics, telecom items, heavy machinery, paper, rubber articles and glass which are largely imported from countries such as China would be brought under the mandatory Indian Standards (IS) regime starting March. This willAbout a month ago, Chinese apps such as TikTok, UC Browser, Helo, Likee, Shareit, Mi Community, WeChat and CamScanner were banned by the central government for “engaging in activities which are prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”. The fresh ban included CamScanner HD, and lighter versions of censored apps such as Likee, Bigo Live, and Helo, among others. Other apps with Chinese bearings may be under lens Read AlsoGovt bans 47 more Chinese apps: All you need to knowIndia on Monday banned 47 more apps with links to China, most being clones or from the same parent company whose main applications were banned last month, a source said.The reason remains the same as was given previously. The IT ministry had received a direction from the home ministry for this action, and after this it was decided to act against them,” a source said, adding the order was issued on Friday. It is believed that the government is closely scrutinising other apps that have Chinese bearings. These include top gaming app PUBG (by Chinese internet giant Tencent) and AliExpress (by Alibaba group). Among other reasons, the government is concerned about the data collection and data harvesting practices of these apps and feels that these processes may be prejudicial to the security of the country. The government has so far sent a long list of questions to Chinese app developers. Many of the companies are yet to respond to the questionnaire. Watch Government blocks 47 more apps, after previous ban on 59 Chinese apps||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/government-bars-47-clones-of-banned-chinese-apps/articleshow/77208886.cms||---
July 28, 2020||India||Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust says no time capsule to be placed below Ayodhya temple||UPDATE: The general secretary of the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, Champat Rai, has denied reports about placing of a time capsule under the ground at Ram Temple construction site on August 5. "All reports about placing of a time capsule under the ground at Ram Temple construction site on August 5 are false. Do not believe in any such rumour," Champat Rai said on Tuesday in a video message.The earlier version of the story: AYODHYA: A time capsule containing the history of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement is to be placed beneath site of the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya. “The capsule will be lowered 200 feet below the surface to ensure that there are no disputes in future,” Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust member Kameshwar Chaupal said on Monday. “The time capsule will be buried along with the foundation of the Ram mandir,” Chaupal told TOI, adding “200 feet is the depth of the foundation”. “It will also contain the complete history of Ayodhya and detailed life of Lord Rama written in Sanskrit on ‘tamra patras’ (copper plates)’,” Chaupal told TOI. When asked why the plates would be inscribed in only Sanskrit, he said it was a language in which one could write long sentences in very few words. “The struggle for Ram Janmabhoomi, including the long-drawn case in the Supreme Court, has a lesson for the current and upcoming generations. The time capsule will be placed so that in future anyone who wishes to study the history of the temple, he’ll get the facts related to Ram Janmabhoomi so that no new controversy can arise,” Chaupal said. He said experts were preparing the tamra patras, which would be placed with the foundation stone. However, it may not be done on the day of the bhoomi pujan. “As tamra patras are yet to be readied, the placement of the time capsule will be done later,” he said. The bhoomi pujan is to be performed in the presence of PM Modi on August 5. Watch Time capsule encapsulating history of Ram Janmabhoomi movement to be placed below Ayodhya temple||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ram-janmabhoomi-teerth-kshetra-trust-says-no-time-capsule-to-be-placed-below-ayodhya-temple/articleshow/77209450.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
July 28, 2020||India||MPs fume at MTNL net service, seek private ISPs||NEW DELHI: State-run Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Ltd (MTNL) may lose its exclusive rights to provide internet facilities to Members of Parliament following complaints regarding the quality of service. Sources said a meeting of the house committee of Parliament last week discussed the possibility of engaging private internet service providers to supply high-speed broadband facilities to MPs since they had faced “acute difficulties” in filing and receiving official documents received by them from the Parliament secretariat. This was also approved by Speaker Om Birla in a review of the situation in May when he said services by private operators be explored in order to facilitate online work by the MPs. While MPs are allowed to use private mobile phone services, internet services as per MPs’ official quota are provided exclusively by MTNL. Upgraded data plan of MPs on our own: MTNLSources said the broadband services provided by the state-run telecom company have been slow and patchy at times, making it difficult for the MPs to carry out Parliament-related work. MTNL, though, is learnt to have defended its services and informed the House Committee that it upgraded, on its own, MPs’ usage plans based on their usage patterns. It also informed the House Committee that MPs’ monthly data consumption limit was increased to 1500 GB, keeping in mind the need for increased data consumption during the lockdown period. The service provider, sources said, also asserted that it has undertaken several other infrastructure projects to equip Parliament and MPs’ flats. A final decision in this regard, sources told TOI, will be subject to an in-principal decision by the House Committee and a subsequent ratification by the joint committee on salaries and allowances of MPs, since the decision will have financial implications and consequential amendments to the Housing and Telephone Facilities (Members of Parliament) Rules, 1956.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mps-fume-at-mtnl-net-service-seek-private-isps/articleshow/77209651.cms||Swati Mathur
July 28, 2020||Business||Eye on China, quality curbs on 370 items||NEW DELHI: Nearly 371 categories of items such as toys, steel bars, steel tubes, consumer electronics, telecom items, heavy machinery, paper, rubber articles and glass which are largely imported from countries such as China would be brought under the mandatory Indian Standards (IS) regime by next March. This will put a curb on the import of sub-standard items. The commerce ministry had identified these items last year. Officials said the process has been expedited to meet the requirement under the Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative to reduce imports and increase exports. Read AlsoGovernment bars 47 clones of banned Chinese appsAbout a month ago, Chinese apps such as TikTok, UC Browser, Helo, Likee, Shareit, Mi Community, WeChat and CamScanner were banned by the central government for “engaging in activities which are prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”.Responding to a question, BIS director general Pramod Kumar Tiwari said, “The commerce ministry has identified 371 imported tariff lines, including Chinese products. We are framing the mandatory standards for these items and to improve the enforcement including at government-owned major ports such as in Kandla, JNPT and Cochin by deploying our officers,” he added. Minutes after consumer affairs minister Ram Vilas Paswan launched two BIS websites, Tiwari said the ministries concerned are identifying the important items from the list given by the commerce ministry and they are also approaching BIS for making the mandatory standards. Read AlsoGovt bans 47 more Chinese apps: All you need to knowIndia on Monday banned 47 more apps with links to China, most being clones or from the same parent company whose main applications were banned last month, a source said.He added that there won’t be any requirement for such standards for some items since “these are imported in less quantity”. On the timeline for notifying the standards, Tiwari said the norms will be in place by December for most products and the rest by March 2021. India-China standoff: Complete coverageThe BIS chief said the officials deployed at ports are working closely with customs officials and are carrying out tests on the spot. On the ramping up of market surveillance of products, he said BIS is targeting to increase the surveillance visits at factories and markets by five-fold; from only 20,000 in 2019-20 to more than a lakh this year. Paswan directed BIS to carry out intense market surveillance for violation of MRP and other packaging standards such as country of origin, dates of manufacturing and expiry since these impact all consumers. Tiwari also said the process for “One Nation One Standard” has also started. Watch Eye on China, Centre imposes quality curbs on 370 items||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/eye-on-china-quality-curbs-on-370-items/articleshow/77209769.cms||---
July 28, 2020||India||Truth I’ll speak even at cost of career: Rahul Gandhi||NEW DELHI: After repeatedly accusing PM Narendra Modi of lying over his “no intrusion” remark, Congress MP Rahul Gandhi ratcheted up the attack on Monday by saying he would continue to speak the truth about China’s aggression even if it cost him his political career. He said those denying Chinese intrusion were not nationalistic. In yet another video on his views on China’s Ladakh intrusion, Rahul said satellite pictures and conversations with former Army officers had made it clear that China was squatting on Indian territory. “It frankly makes my blood boil. How can some other nation just come into our territory? Now, if you as a politician want me to keep quiet and lie to my people that the Chinese have not entered this country, I am not going to lie. I simply will not do it. I don’t care if my whole career goes to hell. I’m not going to lie,” Rahul said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/truth-ill-speak-even-at-cost-of-career-rahul-gandhi/articleshow/77209882.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Mangaluru||Covid battle: Advocate offers Rs10 lakh; challenges MLAs to donate Rs 20 lakh||Mangaluru: An advocate from Puttur, about 50 kms from here, has challenged all 224 MLAs in Karnataka to donate Rs 20 lakh each for their constituency to fight Covid-19. In a video shared on her Facebook wall, advocate V Shylaja Amarnath announced that she will donate Rs 10 lakh to fight coronavirus and she also challenged all MLAs to spend double the amount she has offered. Her Facebook post has been shared by more than 11,000 users and her challenge has been widely shared on social media. Meanwhile, more than 5,600 people liked the post and more than 2,000 people have commented praising her challenge too. “Dear MLAs and MPs, take it as a challenge or offer. Let us form Covid Eradication Committee (CEC). I will contribute Rs 10 lakh, which is my hard earned money, for the committee. It is known to public and your conscience that you spent crores of rupees. When I contribute Rs 10 lakh, each of the 224 MLAs can donate Rs 20 lakh. Spend the money for your own respective constituencies for the eradication of Covid-19,” Shylaja said. “I will also be a part of the committee and it should function transparently so that each individual in the state will know how the money is being spent. For this, let us create an app that will allow people to avail information regarding expenditure on their fingertips,” Shylaja said. Once the mission is accomplished, MLAs and MPs can contest the next election and campaign without wearing masks, she said adding “Let this video reach each MLA, MP and the state government.” When contacted, Shylaja told TOI that she has received response from the offices of several MLAs. “One MLA from Bengaluru has called me several times. He has agreed to contribute and set up a committee in his constituency. Meanwhile, secretaries of many MLAs also have contacted me expressing willingness to join my movement,” she added. Several Facebook users have extended support to Shylaja’s vision and have come forward to contribute money. “Super idea… I will contribute Rs 1,000. Covid can be eradicated if there are many people like you sister… All of you please share,” commented one Shambhu Maharaj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/covid-battle-advocate-offers-rs10-lakh-challenges-mlas-to-donate-rs-20-lakh/articleshow/77204996.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Patna||I-Day parade rehearsal from August 1: DM||PATNA: The Independence Day celebrations on August 15 will be a low-key affair this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Patna district magistrate (DM) Kumar Ravi held a meeting with the officials concerned on Monday to discuss the arrangements to be made at Gandhi Maidan for I-Day. It was decided that only 30-35 people from each team would participate in the parade in order to maintain social distancing on the ground. “Scouts and guides from different schools will not be part of the parade this year, the rehearsals for which will start at Gandhi Maidan from August 1. The final rehearsal will take place on August 13,” the DM told this newspaper, adding that all the participants would undergo thermal screening, ensure social distancing and wear masks throughout. Altogether 17 teams, including those of the Central Reserve Police Force, Central Industrial Security Force, Sashastra Seema Bal, National Disaster Response Force, State Disaster Response Force, National Cadet Corps, Bihar Military Police and Bihar police, will participate in the parade. Ravi also instructed the officials of the building construction department to start barricading Gandhi Maidan for I-Day. “A pandal will be erected near the platform where the flag hoisting ceremony will take place. The area will also be sanitized properly and loose wires changed. Besides, a team of doctors and ambulances will be deputed at Gandhi Maidan.” As far as the preparations for I-Day tableaux are concerned, the DM said he was awaiting the state government’s instructions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/i-day-parade-rehearsal-from-august-1-dm/articleshow/77205067.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 28, 2020||Mysuru||Car turns into bedroom for this floods-hit family||Madikeri: A tribal family in south Kodagu has made an old car their home, thanks to the alleged apathy on the part of the authorities who have given only Rs 1 lakh as against Rs 5 lakh towards flood relief. The car has been parked on the roadside near their home for want of repair. H T Pradeep lost his house at Nehru Colony of Jodubeeti village following heavy rain and floods in August 2019. Pradeep, an SC, makes a living by working in nearby estates. After assessing the floods-induced damage, the authorities sanctioned Rs 5 lakh for rebuilding the house. But of the promised amount, only Rs 1 lakh was credited to his account as “advance payment”. Ever since, he has done many rounds of the panchayat and revenue offices several times, but to no avail. It is said the letter issued by Rajiv Gandhi Housing Corporation, that mentions the sanctioning of Rs 5 lakh, has been of little or no help to him. With the released amount, Pradeep converted the damaged house into a makeshift kitchen by putting up a plastic roof. The walls he built using Rs 1 lakh did not last long as the roof was not strong — they collapsed in the recent rain. With no other option, the car became their living room-cum-bedroom. According to Jagadish Jodubeeti, a local, the plight of another victim Subramani is no different. Reacting to Pradeep’s plight, ZP member Shreeja Saji said that they have brought the matter to the notice of the Kodagu district administration seeking release of Rs 4 lakh. Virajpet ZP executive officer Shanmuga said that they are in touch with the officers concerned and also following up for updates. Revenue inspector Radhakrishna said he is hopeful of Pradeep getting the dues at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/car-turns-into-bedroom-for-this-floods-hit-family/articleshow/77204155.cms||G RAJENDRA
July 28, 2020||Patna||Covid care team to counsel home quarantined patients||PATNA: With the rise in coronavirus cases in Patna, the residents who have tested positive and opted for home isolation are understandably restless and facing mental health crisis. To counsel the Covid patients under home quarantine, Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal on Monday directed the officials concerned to set up a ‘Covid care management’ team at District Registrar and Counselling Centre in Chajjubagh. The team would have 30 medically trained staff, who would call and counsel the positive patients under home quarantine. Agarwal said the centre would be operational from Tuesday. “The trained medical staff will call all the patients who opt for home isolation. They will provide all the necessary medical help to them and enquire about their health on daily basis. If the patient requires counselling, the team will connect them to the doctors,” he said. Under the Covid care Management team, there would be a ‘district medical control room’ comprising six government doctors. “The team has been formed under the supervision of senior deputy collector Kumari Satyanandan,” he said. The Covid-infected people under home isolation can also dial 0612-2249964 to connect with the doctors for the counselling and other health tips to fight the virus. According to district authorities’ data, altogether 1,900 Covid patients were under home isolation till Monday evening before they submitted their self-declaration forms to the district administration. “If the number of Covid positive persons under home isolation increases, we will raise the number of doctors and medically trained staff. The right guidance and counselling will help people in their treatment at home,” the divisional commissioner said. Meanwhile, in view of the increasing number of Covid patients, Agarwal directed the officials concerned to convert the Patliputra Ashok Hotel into a Covid hospital. He asked Patna civil surgeon Dr Raj Kishore Choudhary to depute adequate number of doctors, nurses and other health workers there for treatment of virus-infected patients. He also asked the civil surgeon to depute 14 ANMs at Patliputra Sports Complex, where a 100-bed hospital is functional. Agarwal also asked the PMC officials to regularly sanitise the containment zones and buffer zones to break the Covid chain. He directed the nodal officers of Covid control room at PMCH and NMCH to send daily reports of complaints of patients and doctors’ attendance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-care-team-to-counsel-home-quarantined-patients/articleshow/77205088.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 28, 2020||Patna||Floods hit over 1L people in Darbhanga||DARBHANGA/KHAGARIA/SITAMARHI/BAGAHA: With most rivers flowing above the danger level, lakhs of people continued to face flood fury across 11 districts in north Bihar. In Darbhanga, around 1.2 lakh people in 502 villages spread across 154 panchayats have been affected. According to the disaster management department, 387 community kitchens are being run to feed around 1.3 lakh people even as 1,780 food packets were airdropped by an Indian Air Force chopper for the third consecutive day on Monday. DM Thyagraja SM inspected the relief operation in Bahadurpur block on Monday. In Khagaria, around 74,000 people in 90 villages across 32 panchayats have been affected by floodwaters of Kosi, Bagmati and other turbulent rivers of the area. Flood waters overtopped a number of roads at several places disrupting traffic in the area. According to official sources, floodwaters entered at least 196 houses where relief materials, including ‘chura (flattered rice)’,sugar, readymade food packets besides a polyethene sheet were distributed among the flood victims. The floodwaters from the Ganga spread to more low-lying areas of over a dozen villages under Parbatta block pressing the panic button for the locals. Parbatta CO Chandrashekhar Prasad Singh, however, said situation was well under control as flood waters have not entered the houses as yet. DM Alok Ranjan Ghosh said constant vigil was being kept on the different vulnerable points of major embankments. In Sitamarhi district, people heaved a sigh of relief with the fall in the intensity of rainfall in the past 36 hours. Only \Bagmati is still rising near Dheng but the embankments are safe. Rivers such as Lalbakeya, Jhim, Marar, Marha, the Adhawara group, Rato and Lakhadei are slowly receding, but still flowing above the danger mark. Road connectivity has still not been restored between Sitamarhi-Sursand, Sitamarhi-Parihar, Sitamarhi-Sheohar, Lagma-Bhasepur and Singrahia-Baduri. In West Champaran, large swathes of land continued to remain submerged in Majhaulia block. District Magistrate Kundan Kumar along with SDM Bettiah Vidyanath Pasawan and other officials visited Champaran embankment under Nautan block ,where around 600 flood victims of Sheorajpur and Bhagavanpur panchayats were taking shelter after being evacuated from flood affected areas. The DM said around 1,000 flood victims were being provided meal at community kitchen from last three days and health camps have also been set up for ailing flood victims. The DM also made an appeal to people in flood prone areas to remain on alert as 150 mm rain was reported at Pokharia in Nepal in last 24 hours. Gandak river may surge further and more water may be released from Valmikinagar barrage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/floods-hit-over-1l-people-in-darbhanga/articleshow/77205208.cms||Tirthraj Kushwaha
July 28, 2020||Patna||Train services remain suspended on 2 routes||PATNA: With floodwaters overflowing tracks for the fourth consecutive day on Monday, the movement of trains remained suspended on the Muzaffarpur-Narkatiaganj and Samastipur-Darbhanga routes that fall under the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway (ECR). Altogether 14 special passenger trains running on these routes were either diverted or short-terminated at different places in Bihar. According to ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, the Delhi-Muzaffarpur special (02557/02558) has been diverted to the Gorakhpur-Chhapra Gramin-Muzaffarpur route instead of the original Gorakhpur-Narkatiaganj-Sugauli-Motihari-Muzaffarpur route. Similarly, the Raxaul-Delhi special (05273/05274) has been diverted to the Raxaul-Sikta-Narkatiaganj route instead of the Raxaul-Sugauli-Narkatiaganj route. “The Darbhanga-New Delhi special (02565/02566) has been diverted to the Darbhanga-Sitamarhi-Muzaffarpur route and the Ahmedabad-Darbhanga special (09165/09166) to the Muzaffarpur-Sitamarhi-Darbhanga route,” the CPRO told this newspaper. Besides, both the Amritsar-Jayanagar special (04673/04674) and the Lokmanya Tilak Terminus-Darbhanga special (01061/01062) are being short-terminated at Samastipur due to the suspension of trains on the Darbhanga-Samastipur route. The Delhi-Bapudham Motihari special (040109/040110), on the other hand, is short-terminated at Bettiah from where it originates for its return journey to Delhi. Meanwhile, the railways has stepped up track and bridge safety measures by installing automatic water level indicators on major rail bridges in the flood-prone Samastipur division of the ECR. A large number of employees, equipped with modern communication system, have also been deployed to keep a close watch on the condition of tracks and bridges and inform the emergency control room at Hajipur in case of an emergency. “The safety staff have been asked to keep in touch with the railway disaster management wing around the clock and send updates regarding the status of floodwaters,” the CPRO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/train-services-remain-suspended-on-2-routes/articleshow/77205243.cms||Kumod Verma
July 28, 2020||Patna||New poetry collection of diplomat released amid Covid-19 pandemic||PATNA: Nalanda-born diplomat-turned-poet Abhay Kumar’s poetry collection – ‘The Alphabets of Latin America: A Carnival of Poems’ – was released amid Covid-19 pandemic on July 24. Abhay, Indian ambassador to Comoros and Madagascar, has described his Latin America travel experience between 2016 and 2019 in the poems. According to the poet, the poems take the reader on a roller coaster ride to one of the most culturally and geographically fascinating continents, known for its legendary Maya and Inca civilizations, sizzling Samba and Tango, the world’s biggest carnivals, labyrinths of Borges, magic realism of Gabriel Garcia Marquez, great poetry of Ruben Dario, Pablo Neruda, Gabriela Mistral, Cesare Vallejo, Octavio Paz, fascinating art of Frida Kahlo and Fernando Botero among others. Noted Cuban poet Víctor Rodríguez Núñez lauded Abhay’s poetry collection and said, “Armed with intelligence and sensitivity, with calculation and passion, the book is a love poem that honours us as a society and culture. Our region’s past and present are approached not only as reading but also as experience, with the knowledge of cause and the authenticity of memory.” Jorge Heine, former Chilean ambassador to India (2003-2007) and currently research professor at Boston University, has also appreciated Abhay’s work. “At a time when Latin America undergoes its worst crisis in a century, poet Abhay reminds us in his vivid verses of the marvels of the lands of magical realism.,” he said. “I love the way this abecedarian works and shifts between short and longer poems, refreshing our rhythms constantly. It is a very original and thrilling book that opens the borders of time and place, which is what seems so necessary now in this epoch of nationalist entrenchment and paranoia,” writes Forrest Gander, winner, Pulitzer Prize for Poetry-2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/new-poetry-collection-of-diplomat-released-amid-covid-19-pandemic/articleshow/77205103.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Dehradun||Parents not in favour of reopening schools||Dehradun: The state education department has sent its report to the Centre after taking feedback from parents in Uttarakhand regarding the reopening of the schools. The department was asked to take valid suggestions from various parent associations, school bodies, and others regarding the reopening of the schools. As per reports, the parents have suggested the department to not reopen schools before October. They advise lawmakers to reopen schools in October only if conditions are favourable for them to function. Meanwhile, the National Association for Parents and Students Rights (NAPSR) has suggested that the education department should declare the current academic year as a “zero year” where teaching and online classes will take place to the possible extent but the grading and exams will not be conducted for promoting students to the next class. The NAPSR stated that a lot of disruption has already taken place in the current academic year and declaring it as a “zero year” will be a good proposition for students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/parents-not-in-favour-of-reopening-schools/articleshow/77205420.cms||Mohammad Anab
July 28, 2020||Mysuru||Board games for bored young patients||Mysuru: With more children catching Covid infection due to contacts and travel history of family members, the authorities are introducing board games to keep them active during their hospitalisation at Covid hospital or Covid Care Centre (CCC). Accordingly, the young patients would get to play carrom, chess, ludo, business, scrabble and other board/ indoor games. Nearly 11,000 children have landed at Covid hospitals across Karnataka. This amounts to 11% of 96,141, the total number of positive cases in Karnataka. Of them (as on July 25), 4,033 are aged 10 and below, while 6,914 are in 10-20 age group. They are infected through contacts, travel history and Influenza-Like Illness. As many children are getting admitted to Covid hospital and CCC, the authorities are planning to keep them active as it is important for their recovery. To start with, they have provided carrom boards to CCC in Karnataka State Open University building here. DC Abhiram G Sankar told TOI that chess, carrom, and other board games would be introduced at all facilities shortly. While elderly patients kill boredom by watching TV shows, young adults keep themselves engaged on social media, either messaging or by dancing to film songs and sharing the same on Facebook or WhatsApp. Now, children too have a good way to pass time. District child protection officer S Diwakar said children are vulnerable to Covid infection, and they need utmost care while at care centres. “We have been offering them tele-counselling so they are destressed. Conducting activities for children inside Covid hospital is difficult, so they would be allowed to play board games during treatment,” the officer explained. Mysuru has the highest number of child cases compared to other south Indian districts of Mandya, Chamarajanagar, Hassan and Kodagu. It has also reported the death of a special child (14-year-old) recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/board-games-for-bored-young-patients/articleshow/77206382.cms||Lawrence Milton
July 28, 2020||Business||Tyre exports remains flat at Rs 12,840cr||Chennai: Tyre exports from India remained flat at Rs 12,840 crore by value for the fiscal ended March 2020 from Rs 12,890 crore in the previous year. Against export of 163.5 lakh units in FY19, tyre exports of 163.8 lakh units were achieved in FY20, according to the just released data from Ministry of Commerce, Government of India. In the last five years, tyre exports from India have grown at a CAGR of 8 %.  The exports have gone up from Rs 8,825 crore in 2015-16 to Rs 12,840 crore in FY 2019-20. “The US is the largest tyre export destination from India. Share of US in tyre exports from India has gone up from 15% in FY19 to 17% in FY20 amounting to Rs 2,120 crore,”said K M Mammen, chairman, Automotive Tyre Manufacturers’ Association (ATMA). “With new radial tyre manufacturing facilities coming on stream, Truck & Bus Radial (TBR) tyre exports from India are on their way up year on year and FY 2019-20 witnessed 30% uptick in TBR tyre exports from India,” said Mammen. Tyre marketers say that the current sentiment regarding China is also prompting global OEs to look at Indian sourcing particularly for the replacement market. “Now that the world is looking at shifting supply chains, global OEMs that have already experienced Indian tyre supply chain in India are looking at us for the replacement market as a source for world standard production of tyres. China is the biggest tyre exporter globally followed by Germany, Japan, US and Thailand,” said Satish Sharma, president at Apollo Tyres. Industry however feels the tyre market needs some help especially with regard to accessing Natural Rubber (NR). “Tyre industry needs to adhere to pre import condition for NR import against (tyre) export obligation,” said Sharma. “Worse the export obligation period has been reduced from 18 months to 6 months for tyres. This is restrictive for exporters,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tyre-exports-remains-flat-at-rs-12840cr/articleshow/77206489.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
July 28, 2020||Dehradun||Two dead in rain related accidents in Pithoragarh, one missing||Pithoragarh: A house collapse in Pithoragarh’s Dhami village following a downpour on Sunday night killed one Jawahar Singh (30) while the body of her mother Bisna Devi (55) remains trapped under the debris. Meanwhile, a landslide triggered by heavy rainfall in the district’s Gumti village led to the death of one Janki Devi (30). In the first accident on Sunday night, a house collapsed due to heavy rainfall in Dhami village. A woman, identified as Bisna Devi, and her son, identified as Jawahar Singh, were inside the house when the accident took place. The locals got to know about the house-collapse only in the morning and called the SDRF team thereafter. While the body of Jawahar Singh was taken out from the debris, the body of her mother remains missing. The SDRF team is clearing the debris to trace her body. In the second accident in Gumti village on the same night, Janki Devi got trapped in a landslide when she was some metres away from her house. Her body was recovered, informed disaster management officer Bhupendra Singh Mahar. In the last 24 hours, Munsyari received 62 mm rainfall. The downpour brought several issues ranging from damaged crops in Banbagar village and damaged houses in several other villages of the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-dead-in-rain-related-accidents-in-pithoragarh-one-missing/articleshow/77205433.cms||Prem Punetha
July 28, 2020||Rajkot||IMFL worth Rs 14L seized; two held||Rajkot: A total of 3,400 bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) worth Rs 13.60 lakh were seized from a truck and two arrested on the road between Sardhar and Haripar villages of Rajkot taluka on early Monday morning. While the truck driver, Mangilal Bishnoi (45), and a labourer, Bhaga Solanki (55), were arrested, seven bootleggers who had come to divide the share of liquor bottles fled. “We have seized four cars and two bikes of the bootleggers involved in the distribution of IMFL bottles. Bishnoi and Solanki pleaded ignorance about the accused who had fled. However, they gave us the numbers of the bootleggers, on the basis of which we are tracing them,” said V K Gadhvi, inspector of Rajkot crime branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/imfl-worth-rs-14l-seized-two-held/articleshow/77205596.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Rajkot||Banas Dairy to pay Rs 1,144 crore to 3.5L milk farmers||Palanpur: Banas Dairy has announced 16.66 % price difference worth Rs 1,144 crore on Monday. This price difference will be paid to over 3.50 lakh milk producers who presently pour 73 lakh litres per day (LLPD) milk at village level milk societies linked with the North Gujarat based milk union.The announcement was made by dairy’s chairman Shankar Chaudhary during the 52nd annual general body meeting that was organised online on Sunday.Chaudhary claimed that the dairy had made rapid strides in the last couple of years. Five years back, the milk union used to procure 29.96 LLPD milk which has touched to an average of 59.76 LLPD now.“Despite the hike in diesel prices, our cost to transport milk has come down from 36 paise per litre to 33 paise per litre,” he said.“Our capital is up from Rs 251 crore to Rs 649 crore while our assets are now worth Rs 2,792 crore. Earlier, we had assets worth Rs 879 crore. Our annual turnover too has touched Rs 12,170 crore from Rs 5,441 crore,” he said.Similarly, the cattle feed production capacity of Katarva plant which was 1,000 metric tonnes has reached 1,800 metric tonnes. “Our dairy has saved Rs 5.50 crore on power using solar energy. And income of our farmers has also increased by 15 % after we adopted German designed biogas plant technology,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/banas-dairy-to-pay-rs-1144-crore-to-3-5l-milk-farmers/articleshow/77205566.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Rajkot||Zimbabwe keen on biz tie-ups with SUVM||Rajkot: Zimbabwe is keen on collaborating with several industries in Saurashtra and is exploring memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Saurashtra Vepar Udhyog Mahamandal (SVUM), the apex body of small and medium industries of the region.SUVM president Parag Tejura said that Zimbabwe is highly dependent on imports, but wants to cut down its reliance on China. Businessmen in Saurashtra, who are into agriculture and farming in African countries, are also looking for collaboration in mining, garments and automobile parts.Zimbabwe’s minister for mines and mining department, W Chitando, in a latest communication to SUVM, expressed his country’s interest for collaboration for investment and technology tie-ups. In an earlier communication with SVUM, GM Chipare, Zimbabwe’s ambassador to India, had stated that W Chitando, the minister of mines and mining development is ‘interested to explore collaborative efforts with SVUM’.Tejura said, “We are organizing a webinar next month for interested businessmen from both the countries with the engagement of the Zimbabwe government.”According to Tejura there is an ample opportunity for the auto parts industry to export to Zimbabwe to maintain second-hand cars as import of new cars is banned there.” SVUM is working as a facilitator for the investors in the farming sector in Zimbabwe along with Gujarat Agro industries corporation. SVUM now proposes Indian investment in textile and garment sectors where locals can make investments and forge partnerships for technology transfer. The African countries have sufficient natural resources and they are also looking towards Indian technology in mining.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/zimbabwe-keen-on-biz-tie-ups-with-suvm/articleshow/77205516.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Mysuru||Efforts of community helped in tackling crisis in NR constituency||Mysuru: Community participation has helped district authorities in convincing residents in the north-east of Mysuru, especially in Narasimharaja (NR) assembly constituency, to tackle the Covid-19 crisis to an extent. Due to the efforts of elected representatives and religious heads, many deaths have been prevented. During the weeklong partial lockdown from July 17 to 24, close to 900 people were subjected to rapid tests, and about 22% of them tested positive for the novel coronavirus. The body temperature of hundreds of them were screened. All India Milli Council, Mysuru chapter president Mohamed Zakaulla said that today people are voluntarily coming for tests in containment zones. This is thanks to the efforts of former mayor Ayub Khan for taking a lead in convincing residents in this part of Mysuru to do the same. We have been making announcements over loudspeakers and encouraging the public to undergo tests if they have any flu-like symptoms, he said. Ayub Khan said that what worked well for them was the creation of three Covid centres in the constituency. One was inaugurated recently, and two others are ready. In all, we can accommodate nearly 500 people in these facilities, he said. Initially, people who live in single-room houses and almost every family which is big, feared to undergo testing, but today the scenario has changed because of community participation. Doctors, healthcare workers and philanthropists have come forward to extend their services. They’re providing consultation and care and medicines, and some have also offered food to patients. Ayub Khan said that they have demanded that the health authorities continue rapid tests twice a week, and that they have agreed to it. “Our efforts have yielded results in quick time. We won’t rest and will continue our fight,” said the former mayor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/efforts-of-community-helped-in-tackling-crisis-in-nr-constituency/articleshow/77207087.cms||Lawrence Milton
July 28, 2020||Chandigarh||PEC students adapt to online classes||Chandigarh: On the first day of online classes, response of Punjab Engineering College (deemed to be university) students has been mixed. Although students are in favour of online classes for which each faculty member has shared a time-table, a few students are facing connectivity issues due to the internet or power fluctuations. A student said a few problems cropped up on the first day of online classes but as the institute has made recordings of all lectures available, students can revise lectures as and when required. Box: Admissions to city colleges For centralised admission, 1,019 applications were received and for BA, 451 applications were received in four government colleges. Takers for popular courses Course applications B.com| 639 BBA| 302 BCA| 214 B.sc non-medical| 76 B.sc medical| 34||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pec-students-adapt-to-online-classes/articleshow/77207030.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Patna||Stanford University study ranks Bihar ‘poor’ in sharing Covid data||PATNA: The state health department has rubbished the Stanford University study report, which ranked Bihar among the worst states in India regarding timely and accessible dissemination of Covid-19 data. Under-secretary (health) Bibekanand Thakur told this newspaper that the state government has been following the ICMR protocol when it comes to disseminating the data of Covid-19. “Relevant information like number of cases, tests, deaths and recoveries are also shared with the Centre,” he said. The state health department releases daily Covid bulletin and data on its Twitter handle, but the study says that it is not an accessible or reliable method of disseminating information. Secondly, relevant information can easily get lost amid several posts. The researchers from Stanford University awarded zero to Bihar in the Covid-19 Data Reporting Score (CDRS) based on the four key aspects of public health data reporting — availability, accessibility, granularity and privacy. The study ranked Bihar and UP the last among the 29 states and UTs where the CDRS was recorded during a two-week period from May 19 to June 1. The study was published on July 21. The scoring was done in the range of 0 to 1 in all the four categories and Bihar got 0 in all. Karnataka was the best with 0.61 scoring. Overall quality of Covid-19 reporting in India was poor 0.26. The parameters were examined on the number of confirmed cases, deaths, patients recovered, quarantined and in intensive care units (ICUs). The study says Bihar and UP do not publish any data on state or health department website. Karnataka releases a health bulletin as well as a state war room bulletin every day and also maintains a dashboard. The experts, however, claimed that the district level information is helpful for the public to understand the effect of the pandemic in their neighbourhood and to adhere to the government policies and interventions. Former president of Bihar chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Dr Rajiv Ranjan Prasad, said the main reason behind gaps in the actual number of cases is lack of proper health survey and training. “The government hospitals are not maintaining proper records of the patients. Keeping medical records, especially during pandemic situation like this, is a very important aspect for medical research,” he said. IMA (Bihar) secretary Dr Sunil Kumar alleged that the state government was trying to hide the data, which was important to flatten the Covid-19 curve. “Accuracy in Covid death and infection rate is crucial for contact tracing for containing the virus. Secondly, the accurate data on the right platform is important to create awareness among the masses. But, there is no systematic way for anything in state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/stanford-university-study-ranks-bihar-poor-in-sharing-covid-data/articleshow/77205346.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 28, 2020||Patna||PMCH works out plan for patients in Covid-19 ward||PATNA: The Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) will send the bodies of patients dying of Covid-19 in its corona ward to their respective districts for the last rites. The special team constituted by the hospital would inform the victim’s family as well as the DM and civil surgeon of the district concerned to send team for collecting the bodies for further formalities. The decision was taken in a meeting of heads of departments chaired by PMCH principal Dr VP Choudhary and also attended by its medical superintendent Dr Bimal Karak on Monday. The 100-bed corona ward was set up in the Rajendra Surgical Ward. Dr Choudhary said a duty roster of doctors and paramedical staff was being prepared for providing efficient and round-the-clock service to the patients tested positive and admitted there for treatment. “A four-layer duty plan beginning with postgraduate students, physician on duty, assistant professors and associate professors in supervising role has been prepared for round-the-clock duty. This plan would be monitored by a dedicated team of three doctors to be headed by Dr MP Singh, head of the medicine and state nodal officer,” Dr Choudhary said. The heads of department would keep ready their medical teams in case of specialized treatment for other ailments was required in the corona ward. The principal said a detailed treatment plan, including medicines and other emergency requirements, were being given to all the doctors, nursing and other support staff being put on duty in the corona ward. The hospital administration was busy equipping the beds in this ward with necessary medical accessories, he added. Choudhary said four ventilators, out of the 25 marked for it, were installed while the work for installing others was in progress. An outsourced agency was assigned the task for fitting oxygen supply pipes. A ‘May I Help You’ desk to help attendants and family members of those admitted for Covid-19 treatment would become functional by Wednesday. Sufficient number of PPE kits, masks and gloves have been kept ready for doctors and paramedics going for duty there, he said. Choudhary said unsatisfactory information about patients’ condition to their families and delay in shifting of bodies as per the prescribed norms were the two main causes leading to troubles on the hospital campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pmch-works-out-plan-for-patients-in-covid-19-ward/articleshow/77205296.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar: EC may take final call on campaign mode after July 31||PATNA: A proposal for combined campaign in the upcoming Bihar assembly polls – digital as well as physical – is under active consideration of the Election Commission of India (ECI), a senior official of the poll panel said. The assembly polls are due in the state in October-November this year. The ECI is learned to have decided to take a final decision on the mode of campaigning for the polls after July 31, the deadline set for the political parties to offer their views on the matter. The ECI official said on condition of anonymity that the commission had never said earlier it would go for digital campaigning only. “Under such a situation, the commission may opt for combined campaigning,” he added. The officer, who is closely monitoring the preparation for the forthcoming polls, said the new proposal would suit the political parties which have been favouring traditional way of election campaign. “The bottom line is that social distancing norms are followed,” he said. Opposition parties in the state are opposed to virtual rallies. A delegation of nine political parties had met the Chief Election Commissioner in New Delhi recently and urged him to provide a level playing field to the contestants and the political parties. The RJD believes the virtual rallies are meant for rich parties. “Virtual rallies are not good for the health of Indian democracy,” RJD Rajya Sabha member Manoj Jha had said in a letter submitted to the ECI earlier. Meanwhile, the state election commission has started preparing for the polls. Additional CEO Baijunath Kumar Prasad Singh said the initial training of returning officers, police officers, panchayat functionaries and others has already been completed. Asked about the ECI’s move for a mixed election campaign, the ACEO said, “I have no idea about it. I will be able to make any comment on the issue only after guidelines are issued by the ECI in this regard.” Meanwhile, senior CPI(M) leader Sitaram Yechury took to Twitter on Monday opposing proposal to allow virtual campaign and voting in the state. “This will exclude vast number of people from participating in electoral process,” he tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ec-may-take-final-call-on-campaign-mode-after-july-31/articleshow/77205078.cms||Ramashankar
July 28, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Dragon fruits are juicy delight for farmers||RAJKOT: Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s special mention of Kutch farmers tasting success with dragon fruit cultivation in his July 26 ‘Mann Ki Baat’ has put the spotlight on how this exotic fruit has become a money spinner for many in Gujarat. In fact, people have quit their lucrative professions like investment banking and chartered accountancy after the sweet success in farming of this vibrant red fruit which is famed for its medicinal benefits. Kutch native Vishal Gada, who has a certified practising accountant (CPA) degree from Australia and chartered financial analyst (CFA) from the US, took up farming of dragon fruit in 2014-15 along with his cousin Kalpesh Hariya and friend Sagar Thakkar. Thakkar, who is also a CA, and Gada had worked as investment bankers in India and Australia, are considered to be pioneers of dragon fruit farming in Gujarat. “After working in the corporate sector for a decade, we decided to take up a different profession altogether. We imported dragon fruit saplings and started farming in our ancestral land in Kharua village of Abdasa taluka,” said Gada, who gets 60-80 tonnes of fruit every year which sells at around Rs 300-Rs 400 per kg. “Kutch is famous for its dates, pomegranate and kesar mango, but we wanted to do something different which would give good profit and therefore started dragon fruit farming,” added Thakkar. Vir Gala of Mota Asambhiya village of Mandvi taluka also left his job as a CA and took to dragon fruit farming in 2017. “I wanted to be an entrepreneur. At one point of time, I got tired of taxation and auditing. I came to my village to install a drip irrigation system and got to know about this fruit,” said Gala, who cultivates drag fruit on seven acre land. The success of this fruit is not limited to Kutch. Ashwin Sabhaya, a textile trader who had settled in Surat, started dragon fruit farming in his native Ingorala village of Amreli’s Khambha taluka and took up dragon fruit farming, around two years ago. Due to recession in textile business after the lockdown, Sabhaya has returned for good to his village and started working in the farm himself. “I used tissue culture brought from Kerala. Initially, it was an experiment but due to severe slowdown recession in the market, I feel that there is more income in farming of this fruit than textile business in Surat,” Sabhaya told TOI. The farming of dragon fruit is a costly affair as it requires a big investment - around Rs four lakh per acre- in the initial stage. Being a cactus, it requires watering through a drip irrigation system and as it’s also a creeper, a farmer needs to erect concrete poles for support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dragon-fruits-are-juicy-delight-for-farmers/articleshow/77205765.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
July 28, 2020||Kolkata||12-year-old takes Covid in stride, attends e-classes in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A 12-year-old student who has been in home isolation for about 14 days since she tested positive for Covid, has not let the infection daunt her spirit. She has been attending online classes regularly and on Monday, she even participated in the virtual Van Mahostav celebration organized by her school by belting out ‘Colours of the wind’. “There is so much fear about Covid. For many, it has become synonymous with death. But for most us it is like influenza. Don’t get terrified. It is not going to kill you. Just relax and follow the home isolation rules and make the most of it,” said Sagarika Bhar, a Class VI student of Calcutta Girls’ School (TOI is publishing her name with her parents’ consent). Sagarika was diagnosed with Covid-19 on July 14, along with her mother Paramita. The student admitted that she was initially nervous, but gradually overcame it. Her mother shared her room during home isolation and kept telling her everything would be fine. “It was a little fever and weakness. With my mother instilling confidence that the infection was like any other flu, I soon got over the initial nervousness,” she said. Though she missed a few online classes due to weakness, she kept herself busy reading, writing stories and talking to friends on the phone. “The most important thing is to keep calm. The virtual classes and online chats with friends are helping me forget I am Covid positive,” Sagarika said. Amidst reports of stigmatization of Covid patients, the Bhars’ neighbours have been supportive. In fact, the housing society at Sinthee More already has a Covid support group to help families of those who have been infected. “My daughter is a happy child and an extrovert. I was tense when her positive report came because she would have to be confined to a room for a few weeks. But with support from every quarter, including her school, she is being herself,” said Paramita. “We have taken a home-care package from Fortis Hospital, which includes doctor consultation. We will remain in home isolation till further advice from doctors,” the finance firm employee said. And what advice does Sagarika have for others who have tested positive? “Take it easy and divert your mind to more meaningful things while keeping in touch with doctors,” the girl said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/12-yr-old-takes-covid-in-stride-attends-e-classes/articleshow/77206781.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 28, 2020||Business||RBI guv remains non-committal on moratorium||MUMBAI: Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das remained non-committal on both moratorium and a loan-restructuring scheme despite conflicting demands from lenders and industry. The governor on Monday called for an infrastructure stimulus and said that any subsidy has to be through direct benefit transfer. In an interaction organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), HDFC chairman Deepak Parekh made a representation to the governor for not extending the moratorium beyond August 31. “We see that even those who can pay — whether individual or corporates — are taking advantage of the moratorium and not repaying, and it is hurting us. There is some talk that the moratorium is going to be extended, our request is that it should not be done,” said Parekh. Parekh called for a restructuring of loans to prevent a financial crisis. “According to RBI’s projections, NPAs (non-performing assets) could be 12.5-14.7% next year. If restructuring is not given and banks, NBFCs (non-banking financial companies) and microfinance companies with this kind of NPAs will see their ratings come down, they will not have access to funding and we will have a major crisis,” said Parekh. He added that a similar restructuring was provided in 2008 and is needed to avoid a bigger problem. Das, however, remained non-committal but said that all suggestions are being noted. Parekh’s plea was in contrast to a representation made by Bharti Enterprises vice-chairman and past president of CII, Rakesh Bharti Mittal, calling for an extension of the moratorium. “Given the stress in the economy and the huge pressure, I believe there will be more companies joining the NPAs’ list, and the moratorium extension should be seriously looked at and considered,” he said. Mittal also called for a relaxation of foreign borrowing norms to help corporates tide over liquidity issues. The split between lenders and industry indicates the dilemma before the RBI. While there is a strong case for extending the moratorium for those hit by the crisis, particularly individual borrowers who have lost jobs, NBFCs and housing finance companies cannot afford it as they need to meet their obligations. In his speech, the governor said that the infrastructure space could act as a force multiplier for the Indian economy, adding that a big push to large projects could ignite economic growth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-guv-remains-non-committal-on-moratorium/articleshow/77207198.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Business||CARE Ratings fined Rs 1 crore in RCom case||MUMBAI: Markets regulator Sebi has slapped a penalty of Rs 1 crore on CARE Ratings in its failure to monitor the creditworthiness of the now-defunct telecom services provider Reliance Communications. The penalty relates to the case of RCom’s inability to pay debenture holders about Rs 385 crore in February-March 2017, the Sebi order said. In May 2017, CARE Ratings had downgraded Reliance Communications to a default category relating to its non-convertible debentures (NCDs). The regulator had found that the ratings agency had failed to monitor Reliance Communication’s financial parameters in a timely manner, which led to a “significant delay in conducting the rating process and downgrading the rating”. The order also said that the rating agency had failed to initiate a review of its earlier ratings assigned to RCom even after the publication of its Q3 FY17 results, which showed a sharp decline in cash accruals affecting its credit profile. This was mainly because of the entry of Reliance Jio, that dented the profit margins of all other players in the sector, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/care-ratings-fined-rs-1cr-in-rcom-case/articleshow/77207315.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Gas agency employee shot at, Rs 3 lakh looted||PATNA: Three bike-borne armed criminals allegedly shot at the employee of an LPG agency and looted Rs 3.36 lakh in Rohtas district on Monday. The incident took place around 11.30am when the man, identified as Shiv Kumar Baitha, was on his way to deposit the cash in a bank on his two-wheeler. The robbers intercepted him near Lalganj under the Mufassil police station area and attempted to snatch the bag containing the money. However, when Baitha resisted, one of the criminals fired at him and he fell unconscious on the road. The robbers escaped with the bag and the injured was rushed to the Sasaram sadar hospital from where he was referred to the Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College and Hospital in Gaya. Mufassil police station SHO Rajesh Kumar said CCTV footages were being obtained to ascertain the identity of the criminals. “Raids are being conducted to arrest those involved in the daylight loot,” he added. He also pointed out that Baitha was “out of danger”. The gas agency’s proprietor, Anamika, told this newspaper that the cash could not be deposited earlier because the bank was shut on Saturday and Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gas-agency-employee-shot-at-rs-3-lakh-looted/articleshow/77205129.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Surat||SMC sanitation worker stabbed 30 times||SURAT: A 45-year-old sanitation worker of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) was stabbed nearly 30 times after a petty quarrel between neighbours snowballed into a major fight in Pandesara on Monday. The victim Gavlesh Bhagat is battling for life in the hospital. Police booked his neighbour Nehal alias Aku Chauhan and Sunny alias Sahil Makwana, both 20 yaer -olds living in Chhappanchal of Rudarpura locality, for attempt murder. The complaint was lodged by Bhagat’s elder brother Ketan in Pandesara police station. Bhagat was on duty on the road behind Sarvoday Co-operative Housing Society when Chauhan and Makwana came on a motorcycle and stabbed him multiple times. Bhagat collapsed on the road and was rushed to the hospital in a profusely bleeding condition. Police investigation so far revealed that the families of Chauhan and Bhagat are at loggerheads over multiple issues and often fought with each other. On Sunday, both families had an argument as Chauhan used to speed past the Dashama idol placed near Bhagat’s house on his bike. Bhagat had asked Chauhan not to drive rashly during the on-going Dashama festival. After a bitter altercation, Bhagat had called the police control room. Police visited the spot on Sunday night and ensured peace. Chauhan, however, harboured a grudge against Bhagat for calling the police and the attack on him was an act of revenge. “The assailants have been identified and we are working to nab them,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-sanitation-worker-stabbed-30-times/articleshow/77205231.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Seven held for killing ex-sarpanch of Rapar village||RAJKOT: In the murder case of former sarpanch of Taga village in Rapar taluka on 23 July, police rounded up seven accused on Monday.Those detained were identified as Haji Fakir Mamad Hingroja, Tar Mamad Hingroja, Abbas Mamad Hingroja, Hasam Saleman Hingroja, Sher Mamad Hingroja, Vali Mamad Hingroja and Rajaba Hingroja. The accused had allegedly led a group of 21 to attack 50-year-old Sajan Gaghala with swords, scythes, axes, knives and iron pipes, killing him on the spot. Gaghala was going to his farm on his tractor, when the accused waylaid him, dragged him down from the tractor and murdered him. “The murder was the result of a bitter dispute over marking the boundaries of the farms belonging to Gaghala and the accused,” said an official from Adesar police station. “We will be formally arresting the accused once they undergo Covid-19 tests,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/seven-held-for-killing-ex-sarpanch-of-rapar-village/articleshow/77205487.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Admission decisions for Jadavpur University, Presidency likely next week||KOLKATA: The faculty admissions committees of both humanities and science streams in Jadavpur University will meet by the end of this week to take a final call and decide the formalities to conduct admissions to the undergraduate courses. The two faculties have already completed the department meetings related to the admissions, barring a few which will be done by Thursday. At Presidency University, a decision related to the UG admissions is likely to emerge by next week. “WBJEEB, the exam-conducting body, will have to inform the university about its inability to conduct the PUBDET, which has been postponed from April. Thereafter, a decision will be taken,” said an official. Sources said that in JU, the teachers in both the humanities and science departments have proposed a formula that can be adopted in the absence of admission tests, which will be placed before the admissions committees for a decision. JU is likely to start distributing admission forms from August. The proposals which will be considered by the faculty and admission committee in science include the decision to take into account aspects of a candidate’s performance at the Class-X Boards level in order to determine merit. “Similarly, the departments have suggested there should not be a uniform policy for all departments,” said a senior JU faculty member. In humanities, however, the boards have managed to complete literature and language papers in the Plus-II examinations, according to which formulae have been drawn up by the nine departments in JU. “Though admission tests are a necessity, it is impossible to conduct them this year. Also, several candidates who apply to JU come from distant towns and villages and do not have the means to appear for online examinations,” said a JU official. The same issue is bothering the WBJEE Board and the state.  “The state has instructed all state-run universities to begin the admission process from August 10,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/admission-decisions-for-ju-presi-likely-next-week/articleshow/77206754.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Will take to streets, ensure tax hike rollback, say AAP leaders||NEW DELHI: Reacting strongly to what many called the “untimely” imposition of professional tax, increase of the property transfer duty and the implementation of the recommendations of the third Municipal Valuation Committee regarding commercial properties, the opposition parties as well as common people criticised the BJP-ruled South Delhi Municipal Corporation for seeking to make up for their losses by taxing the public. Launching an attack on SDMC, AAP leaders Durgesh Pathak and MLA Dinesh Mohaniya said that the decision to impose three new taxes on Monday was the price people had to pay for the “corruption” of BJP councillors in the civic body. “Despite Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta's assurance and tweets that the taxes would not be hiked, SDMC still approved the new taxes,” said Pathak. “AAP will fight against this decision in the SDMC House and on the streets of Delhi to have the tax decisions rolled back.” The AAP leaders also accused Congress, despite sitting in the opposition in SDMC, of supporting this decision in the House in contrast to Aam Aadmi Party, which had walked out in protest when the taxes were approved. Prem Chauhan, leader of the Opposition, alleged, “When the discussion began on Monday, AAP councillors demanded clarification on the issue of taxes. Unfortunately, the Congress party supported BJP. If they had opposed the decision, BJP could not have passed the proposal.” Congress spokesperson Abhishek Dutt, who is a councillor in SDMC, refuted that his party had supported the taxation decision. “Rather, the AAP councillors walked out of the House and did not debate the issue,” Dutt countered. “The civic body is wasting crores of rupees in corrupt practices, and I highlighted these issues many times in contrast to AAP councillors.” Dutt alleged that more than Rs100 crore had been wasted in non-efficient use of super-suckers. Mayor Anamika Singh said that the professional tax was introduced because SDMC was facing acute finance problems. “If we got our rightful share of grants, we would never impose these taxes,” she argued. “We were unable to pay salaries of employees this month. Should corona warriors not get their salaries?” An SDMC official also reasoned that the tax was in exchange for the amenities and infrastructure provided by the civic body to professionals and companies registered in south Delhi or with offices in areas under its jurisdiction. “They are using the infrastructure created using people’s money. This tax is already being levied in 19 states, among them Gujarat, West Bengal and Bihar, the latest being Telangana.” Saurabh Bharadwaj, AAP spokesperson and MLA from Greater Kailash said that proposals for such taxation were making rounds for some days, but no one really their approval at a time when people were financially distressed by the Covid pandemic. “People have lost their jobs and businesses are running at 20% of their capacity,” Bharadwaj said. “The Prime Minister talks about aapda me avsar and BJP has imposed a new tax and hiked others.” South Delhi residents acknowledged that SDMC was short of funds, but alleged that the civic body was making no effort to increase revenue from existing sources. They said imposing new taxes or increasing old ones should be linked with improvement in service delivery, accountability and punishment of tax defaulters who get the same services as honest taxpayers. One resident said, “It is true that taxes have not been increased over the past 10-12 years and whenever proposals were made, they were withdrawn due to political pressure. But taxes should come with improvement in services. They should be subject to defaulters being penalised. Moreover, now that unauthorised colonies have been regularised, the municipal corporation should tell us how they plan to bring such areas into the tax net.” Many citizens argued that the civic body had launched a special drive and hired a company to bring more people into the tax net and issued them the Unique Property Identification Card. “The idea was to increase the tax net but the project barely made any change and money invested on the project was simply wasted,” rued one of them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/will-take-to-streets-ensure-tax-hike-rollback-aap/articleshow/77208371.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Surat||State govt approves Rs 50L compensation to private doctors, paramedics:IMA||Surat: The Gujarat government has consented to the demand made by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) for providing Rs 50 lakh compensation to the medical or paramedical staff in private sector succumbing to Covid-19. In a meeting held on Monday between the IMA office-bearers, finance secretary, Milind Torawane, Surat municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani and other senior government officials, a three-member committee has been formed which will determine if the doctor or paramedical staff from private sector has died due to Covid-19. The panel consists of Dr Vinesh Shah, Dr Paresh Munshi and Dr Dipak Torawala. IMA office-bearers stated that the authorities have also consented upon reserving at least 40-50 beds for the medical and paramedical staff of the private sector in case of emergency. According to IMA, the rapid antigen testing will be done at the private hospitals, clinics an laboratories at the cost of Rs 700 as upper limit for the test, wherein the facilities will pay Rs 450 to the SMC for the antigen kits. Dr Parul Vadgama, president of IMA (Surat branch) told TOI, “Till now, the private practitioners and paramedical staff were not covered under the compensation scheme of the State Government. We are happy that the government has considered our proposal and consented to provide Rs 50 lakh compensation to the doctors and paramedics succumbing to Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/state-govt-approves-rs-50l-compensation-to-private-doctors-paramedicsima/articleshow/77205146.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Mangaluru||Engaging children in household chores has therapeutic benefits, say experts||Mangaluru: Working from home and taking care of the kids has been one of the biggest challenges for parents during the pandemic. Research suggests that at least 50% of Indian parents are not happy at the level of involvement with their children. The parental support group of the department of occupational therapy, Manipal College of Health Professions, MAHE, has noticed the rising stress level and mothering dilemmas among parents because they are not able to engage their children (mostly 6-12 years) in household chores even though children are capable of handling a few things. Many parents are struggling to manage their child’s distance learning, financial strain and health concerns as schools remain closed. Dr Sumita Rege, associate professor, department of occupational therapy, said, through the parent support group, they have realised that often parents, especially mothers, feel guilty to ask their children to do any household chores because they think they are shirking their responsibilities and treating their children as free labour. Parents feel childhood is the time they can have fun and so let let them be. “The issue is also about dedicating time. But parents need to understand that there is a huge upside to involving children in household tasks as children develop a sense of responsibility, independence and self-confidence,” she said. Speaking to TOI, assistant professor Rupambika Sahoo said though it’s over three months since families are spending most of their time indoors, several couples are trying hard to strike the right work-life balance and spend quality ‘me time’. Often, stress levels of women are rising. Many parents fail to understand the therapeutic benefits of involving kids in household chores. “It gives children confidence in dealing with life. They become more responsible and self-reliant and better equipped to cope with frustration and live a balanced life,” she said However, parents need to prepare themselves first. Rupambika said, “Tasks must be planned according to the child’s age, parents must work together and have a fixed schedule. Before giving any task, parents must articulate their expectations so that the child is clear with what to do. Meanwhile, it is important for parents not to count on perfect work and must not forget to give positive feedback,” she added. BOX Hidden benefits Helps develop a routine Better bonding with family members Children learn planning and organising skills Children doing tasks with parents or siblings are better at teamwork.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/engaging-children-in-household-chores-has-therapeutic-benefits-say-experts/articleshow/77205068.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
July 28, 2020||Patna||I-Day parade rehearsal from August 1: DM||Patna: The Independence Day celebrations on August 15 will be a low-key affair this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Patna district magistrate (DM) Kumar Ravi held a meeting with the officials concerned on Monday to discuss the arrangements to be made at Gandhi Maidan for I-Day. It was decided that only 30-35 people from each team would participate in the parade in order to maintain social distancing on the ground. “Scouts and guides from different schools will not be part of the parade this year, the rehearsals for which will start at Gandhi Maidan from August 1. The final rehearsal will take place on August 13,” the DM told this newspaper, adding that all the participants would undergo thermal screening, ensure social distancing and wear masks throughout. Altogether 17 teams, including those of the Central Reserve Police Force, Central Industrial Security Force, Sashastra Seema Bal, National Disaster Response Force, State Disaster Response Force, National Cadet Corps, Bihar Military Police and Bihar police, will participate in the parade. Ravi also instructed the officials of the building construction department to start barricading Gandhi Maidan for I-Day. “A pandal will be erected near the platform where the flag hoisting ceremony will take place. The area will also be sanitized properly and loose wires changed. Besides, a team of doctors and ambulances will be deputed at Gandhi Maidan.” As far as the preparations for I-Day tableaux are concerned, the DM said he was awaiting the state government’s instructions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/i-day-parade-rehearsal-from-august-1-dm/articleshow/77203403.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 28, 2020||Patna||State Congress members stage march to Raj Bhavan||PATNA: Bihar Congress members marched to the Raj Bhavan on Monday in protest against the BJP’s role in the ongoing political situation in Rajasthan. They sat outside the Raj Bhavan with placards criticizing BJP and raising slogans against PM Narendra Modi. State Congress president Madan Mohan Jha said BJP was trying to bring down the Gehlot government in Rajasthan. “They have always been playing against the mandate. They pulled down the elected government in Madhya Pradesh by wrong means to come to power. They can go to any extent for coming to power,” he said. Jha said they want Bihar governor to hold talks with the President of India in this regard and sort out the issue and allow the assembly session in Rajasthan. Such protests were carried out in the other state capitals as well. Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said the his party wanted to give a message that democracy was in danger. “When assembly sessions can be held in states like Bihar, Mizoram and Meghalaya, why not in Rajasthan? BJP says Congress does not have a majority. When we want to prove it, they are not letting it happen,” he said. When asked about staging protest in a pandemic situation in Bihar, Mishra replied, “It was not a protest. Rather, we wanted to meet the governor and had sent him information a day before. He had also told us of giving time. However, he did not. Then we went there and submitted our memorandum. Also, our party members were putting on masks and gloves,” added Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-congress-members-stage-march-to-raj-bhavan/articleshow/77205273.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Surat||Aged woman with thyroid, BP wins battle against Covid-19||Surat: Before the virus tried to ravage her, this 60-year-old woman was already suffering from two co-morbid conditions - thyroid and blood pressure. In fact, her health had deteriorated to such an extent that she was put on life-support system for 13 days. But Parvati Kalsaria, a native of Bhavnagar district, has won her battle against Covid-19.After 20 days of hospitalization, Kalsaria was discharged from Surat Municipal Corporation’s (SMC) SMIMER hospital on Monday. A native of Bhadra village in Bhavnagar’s Mahuva taluka, Kalsaria lives in Suman Prabhat Avas in Godadara area with her family. She was admitted in SMIMER on July 7 after testing positive. According to the hospital sources, she was already in serious condition when admitted. “She was kept on ventilator support for 13 days. Her condition gradually started improving,” said an official. "When I was put on ventilator, I had lost any hope of survival. But doctors at SMIMER hospital did their best and now I have got a new lease of life,” said Kalsaria. Her son Ajay added that she had developed Covid-19 like symptoms on July 5. “She was already suffering from thyroid and blood pressure. We had first gone to a private hospital for treatment. But her oxygen levels dropped and her condition had started deteriorating after which she was referred to SMIMER hospital,” he said. “After the doctors who were attending her put her on a ventilator for so many days, we had lost all hopes of her recovery. But she has recovered well and has also got discharged,” said Ajay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/aged-woman-with-thyroid-bp-wins-battle-against-covid-19/articleshow/77205286.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Nagpur||Gadchiroli cops aim to win over tribals to defeat Reds||Nagpur: With a plan to ensure Maoists’ ‘martyrs week’, which kicks off on Tuesday, remains a damp squib, Gadchiroli district police are engaging tribal community members by organizing corner meetings in remote villages, erecting anti-Maoist banners and posters, and also highlighting the rallies of tribals wherein they had vociferously opposed violence against them. Superintendent of police Shailesh Balkawade said villagers have been stepping out spontaneously to oppose the Maoists in remote and sensitive regions like Dhodraj in Bhamragarh, Gatta Jambiya in Etapalli, Gyarapatti in Dhanora etc. “Our senior officers are visiting the hamlets and addressing the tribals. We are trying to convince the tribals not to waste the sowing season by participating in Maoist activities,” he said. Balkawade said the tribals are being explained the fact that so far around 240 Maoists have been neutralized in police action, but the Reds have eliminated over 540 tribals in the district on some or the other pretext. “The tribals are being misled by the Maoists stating they are fighting for their cause. But, we are now exposing the claims with facts and figures,” said the SP. However, acid test for the district police is set to begin on Tuesday as the Maoists, on the back foot at present, would desperately try to make a comeback. Prior to this week, Maoists have tried to ramp up their propaganda machineries with meetings in villages, erecting banners and posters, distributing pamphlets and also occasional violence to draw attention, but they could not mobilize the support of the local populace this time, said Balkawade. With 371 security personnel turning Covid positive, the district police have to mainly depend on the jaded force already deployed in the Maoist hinterland. The personnel, who have tested positive, were supposed to relieve the existing lot and take on the Maoists afresh under the shadow of the ‘martyrs week’. The cops are now working on a new mantra of winning mind and heart of the tribals before dominating the Reds with a strong arm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gadchiroli-cops-aim-to-win-over-tribals-to-defeat-reds/articleshow/77207067.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 28, 2020||Patna||‘People of state want Nitish back’||PATNA: JD(U) national general secretary (organisation) R C P Singh on Monday said common people have a very strong desire that CM Nitish Kumar leads the state government once again so that his resolve to make Bihar a developed state could be fulfilled. Addressing the party’s assembly constituency-wise virtual sammelan for Wazirganj, Rajauli, Warisaliganj, Jamui, Ghoraiya and Jamalpur ahead of the aseembly polls, Singh said the government prior to Nitish Kumar’s regime had neither a vision nor any programme for development of the state. “Bihar was then a backward state on all parameters of development. Nitish Kumar came into power in November 2005 with a dream of a developed Bihar and did work in all sectors,” he said. “If anyone wants to see an example of development in Bihar during Nitish Kumar’s regime, s/he should take the case of twin cities of Gaya and Bodh Gaya. Nirtishji decorated the twin cities in such a way that the footfall of foreign tourists rose to above three lakh in 2019. Today, there are several important institutions and international-class facilities available in Gaya and Bodh Gaya towns. Moreover, now the state government has planned to supply Ganga water in the town,” Singh said. As the JD(U) has planned a mega virtual rally of Nitish on August 7, Singh asked the party leaders to link maximum number of Nitish’s fans, followers and well-wishers, besides the party’s workers through different social media platforms. Nitish is likely to kickstart his party’s election campaign for the forthcoming assembly polls through the virtual rally on August 7. State’s information and public relations minister Neeraj Kumar, transport minister Santosh Kumar Nirala, Yuva JD(U) president and MLA Abhay Kushwaha, party’s spokesperson Anjum Ara and media cell president Amardeep also addressed the virtual sammelan. JD(U)’s leader in Lok Sabha and Munger MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh also addressed a similar virtual sammelan for Kanti, Paroo, Sahibganj, Muzaffarpur, Gopalganj, Kuchaykot and Darauli assembly constituencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/people-of-state-want-nitish-back/articleshow/77205298.cms||Madan Kumar
July 28, 2020||Business||India Cements holds head above water, reports Rs 17 cr profit||Chennai: The India Cements Ltd., on Monday said that its profits for the quarter ended June 2020 were Rs 17 crore, a fall from Rs 72.2 crore it earned in the corresponding quarter last year as it operated its plants at just 35% of rated capacity. The main markets were under intense lockdowns during the quarter,” said N Srinivasan, managing director (MD) of the company. “We cut fixed costs and higher cement prices during the period. The net plant realisation was Rs 4,235 per tonne as against Rs 3,654 a year ago,” he said. The demand for cement in July was better than April and May, he said. “Hoping forward when volumes pick up, we will see better days,” he added. The company has not cut salaries for any of its 2,200 employees. “We have not cut or resorted to retrenchment despite eking out a living operating our factories at just 35% of the capacity. They (employees) are not responsible and the management therefore has said that they cannot be asked to go,” Srinivasan said. Given the backdrop of decline in demand caused by the covid situation, the clinker production was lower at 8.6 lakhs tons (21.5 lakhs tons) and the overall volume of clinker and cement was at 14.3 lakh tons when compared with 30.4 lakh tons in the same quarter last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-cements-holds-head-above-water-reports-rs-17-cr-profit/articleshow/77206463.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Surat||Inquiry against Sunita Yadav on hold as probe officer tests positive||Surat: Inquiry against the female lok rakshak dal constable Sunita Yadav, who took on junior health minister’s son over lockdown violation is on hold since the last 10 days as the probe officer has tested positive for coronavirus.Yadav had come into limelight after her video of July 8, lambasting minister of state for health Kumar Kanani’s son Prakash, for lockdown violation went viral on social media. Following the incident, Surat police commissioner R B Brahmbhatt had ordered an inquiry into the incident and handed over the probe to ACP A Division, C K Patel. Since Patel was ACP of the area where Yadav was posted and an audio clip of his (Patel’s) phone conversation with Yadav too had gone viral, the inquiry was handed over to ACP F Division J K Pandya.Before falling sick, Pandya had registered statement of Yadav and few others involved in the case. He has been on sick leave since last 10 days.P L Chaudhary, ACP special branch is in-charge of ACP F division since July 17. “The inquiry is yet not over. The procedure to verify various aspects of the incident is on,” said Chaudhary.Yadav is also facing inquiry for making people do sit-up on road in Varachha a few days before the incident with the minister’s son. She is facing another inquiry for refusing to accept the notice served to her for going on leave without informing her office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/inquiry-against-sunita-yadav-on-hold-as-probe-officer-tests-positive/articleshow/77205336.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Surat||Doctor celebrates b’day by donating plasma||Surat: Dr Jignesh Patel could not have got a better gift on his birthday. Monday was the last day of his home isolation and he completely recovered from Covid-19 infection.But Dr Patel, a paediatrician with Nirmal Hospital, decided to give a unique return gift to Covid-19 patients. He walked into the blood bank of state-run New Civil Hospital (NCH) and donated his plasma. As soon as he completed the procedure, doctors at the blood bank joined the celebrations by cake cutting and congratulated him for the gesture.“I tested positive on July 20. But I did not require oxygen, so I had preferred home isolation. I recovered on July 27 on my birthday,” Dr Patel told TOI.Dr Patel realized that there is a huge demand for plasma considering the spike in cases in the city. “The results of plasma therapy have been encouraging. I have gone through Covid-19 and recovered. So, I can understand the feelings of those who are under treatment. I decided to celebrate my 40th birthday by donating plasma,” he said.Dr Mayur Jagar, in-charge Head of department of immunohaematology and blood transfusion, added, “We celebrated Dr. Jignesh’s birthday here after he donated his plasma. This was a great gesture on his part.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/doctor-celebrates-bday-by-donating-plasma/articleshow/77205252.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Business||‘No plan to bring back FRDI Bill’||TNN Mumbai: Following persistent rumours that the government plans to bring back the Financial Resolution and Deposit Insurance Bill, 2017 (FRDI Bill), which was dropped in 2018, the government has clarified that there is no such decision. “There are some media reports about the reintroduction of the FRDI Bill. This is to clarify that the government has not taken any decision to reintroduce the FRDI Bill,” a statement said. The FRDI Bill had caused consternation among depositors as it included a ‘bail-in’ clause, which allowed depositors to contribute to a resolution of a failed bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/no-plan-to-bring-back-frdi-bill/articleshow/77207086.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Varanasi||Teen boy kidnapped,killed in Gorakhpur||Abductors Demanded Rs 1 Cr From His Father Who Runs Grocery Shop Arjumand Bano Gorakhpur: A 14-year-old boy was kidnapped and found killed in Gorakhpur on Monday. The boy, Baliram Gupta, was allegedly kidnapped by his neighbours who made a ransom call demanding Rs 1 crore for his release. Police were baffled by the ransom amount as the boy’s father runs a grocery store and is not capable of paying such a big amount. One person has been arrested in the case. This is the third case of kidnapping in the state in the past month after Kanpur and Gonda. While the youth kidnapped in Kanpur was also killed, police rescued the boy kidnapped in Gonda. Taking a strong note of the incident, CM Yogi Aityanath instructed to take stern action against the culprit and fixed the accountability of cops. He also announced an ex gratia of Rs 5 lakh for the deceased boy's family. Baliram’s body was recovered from a drain near Katiya Tola, some distance away from his village. The body was stuffed in a sack. Son of Mahajan Gupta, Baliram, a resident of Jungle Chhatradhari Tola Mishrauliya in Pipraich police station, had gone missing on Sunday. Gupta informed UP112 that his son had gone towards Bangla crossing from his shop around 12pm but did not return. “Around 3pm, Mahajan Gupta received a call from an unidentified number saying his son has been kidnapped. The caller demanded a ransom of Rs 1 crore,” said a UP STF officer. Additional Superintendent of police, Gorakhpur North, Arvind Pandey told reporters that police nabbed one accused Dayanand Rajbhar following surveillance and local intelligence. He confessed to crime and revealed that the boy was killed and his body dumped in a drain. The body was recovered at 4.30pm today on the inputs provided by Rajbhar. There were injury marks on the throat and bleeding from mouth and nose.” Four others have also been detained and are being interrogated. “The mobile phone and SIMs used by the accused have also been recovered. Two other accused, Rinku Gupta and Nikesh, have also been taken into custody for issuing the SIMs on fake documents. Further probe is still on,” said Pandey. The deceased boy was the only brother of five sisters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/teen-boy-kidnappedkilled-in-gorakhpur/articleshow/77207185.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Business||Yes Bank shares end 10% down after its FPO||MUMBAI: The huge supply of Yes Bank shares through its just-concluded Rs 15,000-crore follow-on public offering (FPO) is weighing on the stock. The bank’s shares hit the 10% lower circuit at about Rs 12 on the BSE on Monday and closed at the same level. Over 34 crore shares of the lender changed hands on the two exchanges. The shares allotted in the FPO were credited to investors on Sunday. In Monday’s weak market, which saw the sensex close 194 points or 0.5% down lower at 37,935, HDFC Bank shares closed nearly 4% lower, mainly on the back of reports during the weekend that its outgoing MD Aditya Puri had sold most of his shares in the lender. Other top contributors to the sensex’s loss were ICICI Bank, Kotak Mahindra Bank and Axis Bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/yes-bk-shares-end-10-down-after-its-fpo/articleshow/77207076.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Business||Kotak Bank’s Q1 net profit falls 9%||MUMBAI: Kotak Mahindra Bank reported a net profit of Rs 1,224 crore for the quarter ended June 2020 — a drop of nearly 9% from Rs 1,360 crore in the year-ago period. On a consolidated basis, net profit for the first quarter fell 4% to Rs 1,853 crore from Rs 1,932 crore in the previous year. Net interest income rose 17% to Rs 3,723 crore from Rs 3,161 crore in the previous year. However, total provisions tripled to Rs 962 crore from Rs 316 crore in the previous year. The increase was because of Rs 616 crore that the bank set aside as general provisions for Covid-19 deferment cases. The bank’s ratio of gross non-performing assets (NPAs) to total loans increased to 2.7% from 2.2% a year ago. In absolute terms, gross NPAs rose to Rs 5,619 crore from Rs 4,613 crore in the previous year. “The continued slowdown in economic activities has impacted lending business, fee income generation from sale of third-party products and usage of debit and credit cards, collection efficiency, etc. This slowdown may impact customer defaults and consequently increase in provisions,” the bank said. Banks are setting aside provisions in anticipation of defaults after the six-month moratorium on repayments allowed by the RBI ends. At present, there is a standstill on any borrower being classified as a defaulter for not meeting repayment obligations during the lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kotak-banks-q1-net-profit-falls-9/articleshow/77207006.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Goa||Goa sees biggest one-day spike with 258 new cases||PANAJI: Goa’s active Covid-19 count shot up to 1,673 on Monday after it recorded its biggest single-day spike of 258 new cases. The death toll, too, rose by one , after a 58-year-old man from New Vaddem succumbed to the infection on Sunday. Chimbel witnessed a sharp spike of 37 new infections, taking its total to 79 and making it the worst-affected area in North Goa. “We can now see cases in all parts of Chimbel,” said St Cruz MLA Antonio Fernandes, who represents the area. In Panaji, too, seven new cases took its total up to 53. Mayor Uday Madkaikar said that the new cases have been reported from housing complexes in Miramar and Caranzalem, and from three buildings in Mala. A person from a centrally-located building in the city also tested positive. “All places will be sanitised on Tuesday,” he said. “Camrabhat will continue to remain sealed for another week.” Madkaikar also said that he has placed a request for swab samples to be collected in new areas of the city where cases have been reported. However, he said it would have to wait because of rising pendency numbers. “The directorate of health services has asked us to bring people for testing if they show symptoms,” he said. Meanwhile in Porvorim, an under-secretary at the secretariat, who lives in Betim, has also tested positive. A health official said that swabs of all his contacts will be taken. Since Sunday, Porvorim has reported six cases, three of which are from Betim. Cases also continued to rise in several locations across the state. Balli, which had 12 cases on Sunday, saw 27 new ones on Monday, taking its total to 39. Margao and Vasco also saw a rise in numbers, with 13 and 24 new cases respectively. Candolim saw seven new cases, and Curtorim 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-sees-biggest-one-day-spike-with-258-new-cases/articleshow/77208969.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Patna||Demand for oxygen up as videos go viral in Bihar's Bettiah||BETTIAH: Reports of Covid-19 positive patients allegedly dying for want of oxygen, as videos from the Government Medical College gone viral on social media last week have conveyed, have led to a surge among the citizenry to buy oxygen from the market in Bettiah. “News of rise in Covid infections plus the lockdown have led to an unprecedent demand for oxygen cylinders,” Ashish Agarwal, CEO of Bihar Agency, one of private dealers of oxygen here, told this newspaper on Monday. Dr Binod Prasad, principal of the Government Medical College (GMC), however said the hospital was well stocked with oxygen. “There is no need to panic. We have 200 full cylinders and also have an oxygen pipeline in the Covid ward that is fed by machines generating oxygen from the atmosphere,” he said. Civil surgeon Dr Arun K Sinha, meanwhile, said that a stock of 7,000 rapid antigen testing kits has arrived. “We will ramp up testing with tests at 18 PHCs across the district and the urban PHC at Bettiah, apart from the testing in progress at GMC,” he said. The GMC principal further said that RT-PCR testing equipment is also being installed for quick confirmatory tests. However, reports of Covid spread have also risen. With 95 fresh cases reported by Sunday night, the figure of positive cases rose to 1,125. With the death of a private compounder, 45, on Monday, the Covid death toll rose to 12. On Sunday night, a 65-year-old woman also succumbed at the CMC Covid ward. Her son, a civil court employee, also tested positive along with her. In addition to viral videos on social media, anecdotal reports of surging Covid cases spreading like a bush fire have fuelled the demand for oxygen . “ All of a sudden, people having old dry oxygen cylinders at home have deluged us. About 50 people have so far taken new cylinders in exchange,” Agarwal told TOI on Monday, adding he has received about 100 queries. “ About 20 people have bought new cylinders. This does not include philanthropic bodies like the Marwari Sammelan,” Agarwal further said, adding that the Rotary Club has also evinced interest (in buying cylinders for Covid emergency social service) . “We are facing difficulty in maintaining our supplies as the lock down and floods have hampered transportation,” he said. “We have bought 11 new cylinders from donations from the Marwari samaj,” Ravi Goenka, VP of the Bihar Pradesh Marwari Sammelan, told this reporter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/demand-for-oxygen-up-as-videos-go-viral-in-bettiah/articleshow/77205193.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
July 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Lab technicians threaten to go on strike from August 1||PATNA: Around 680 laboratory technicians involved in Covid-19 sample collection and tests have threatened to go on strike from August 1 if the government fails to expedite the interview process to provide them permanent job. If these lab technicians go on strike, it will have a cascading effect on the anti-Covid fight of the state government, which is already battling with shortage of manpower. Health workers under the banner of Bihar Anubandhit Lab Technician Evam Para Medical Karamchari Sangh said Bihar Staff Selection Commission (BSSC) had come up with 1,772 vacancies in 2015 and 1,138 candidates were shortlisted in 2016. However, they are yet to be interviewed for appointment. “The candidates were shortlisted on the basis of their academic marks, higher studies and experience. Final selection was supposed to be done after the interview, which carried 15 marks,” Sangh president Surjeet Kumar said. He added, “The 1,138 shortlisted candidates were called for counselling by BSSC in 2016. However, the final selection was not done and the interview is still pending. The BSSC should immediately conduct interview and fill the vacancies. We all are working under immense pressure. Permanent lab technicians were last appointed by the state health department in 1997.” He said 680 lab technicians, who are presently working in different health institutions across the state, were roped in on contract basis by the health department in 2010 after they passed an examination conducted by Bihar Combined Entrance Competitive Examination Board. “We have lost two of our colleagues due to Covid-19 and over 30 lab technicians have tested positive for the virus. We did not want to go on strike amid pandemic, but we have no option. Conducting interview to shortlist technicians is the need of the hour. Appointment of technicians will ease burden on us,” Surjeet said, adding the department has a little over 300 permanent lab technicians. BSSC secretary Om Prakash Paul said it was not possible for the commission to conduct interview amid pandemic and lockdown. “At least 11 districts are affected by floods. Candidates from these districts cannot attend interview at this stage,” Paul added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lab-technicians-threaten-to-go-on-strike-from-august-1/articleshow/77205140.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 28, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Student tells professor’s wife of sex advances, audio clip goes viral||BURDWAN: A probe has been started by Burdwan University against an academic for alleged sexual advances made towards a student. An unverified audio clip regarding this has gone viral prompting the university students’ union to lodge a complaint with the VC last week. The university, after taking a legal opinion, has forwarded the complaint to the internal complaints committee (ICC) for a probe. In the complaint, the union alleged that “a teacher had been involved in affairs with several students. It is very unfortunate if the incident is true and will lead to loss of dignity for the university”. The union urged the VC to probe the matter and enclosed the audio clip with the complaint. VC Nimai Chandra Saha said that the matter has been referred to the internal complaints committee headed by a woman teacher according to the advice of the law department. Saha, however, added that there was no complaint by any individual student against the teacher. There are nine members in the ICC, including a law teacher and an NGO official. According to a source, the committee has not deliberated on the issue as yet. The purported audio clip is a recorded conversation between the teacher’s wife and a woman student, along with the teacher, in which the allegations have been made. The teacher refused to comment, saying that the truth will come out. Read this story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/student-tells-profs-wife-of-sex-advances-audio-clip-goes-viral/articleshow/77206798.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Patna||‘Bhoomi pujan’ of Ram temple: Bihar's Sitamarhi ready for mini Diwali||PATNA: It will be a mini Diwali for the residents of Sitamarhi, the birthplace of goddess Sita, on August 5 when PM Narendra Modi will perform ‘bhoomi pujan’ for Ram temple at Ayodhya. The residents of Sitamarhi will lit ‘diyas’ (earthen lamps) in front of their houses, balconies and rooftops and nearby temples in the evening and distribute ‘prasad’. Between 11.30am and 12.30pm, they will offer prayers to God Ram and goddess Sita in their houses. Abhishek Mishra, nephew of famous Ramjanki Sthan temple mahanth Vinod Das, said, “It will be a mini Diwali in Sitamarhi on August 5. The Janki temple will also be decorated for the purpose.” A section of the devotees will distribute ‘prasad’ while maintaining social distancing norms. The main ‘diya’ will be lit at Janki Sthan Janki temple. Different committees have already been formed to make it a grand celebration, Mishra added. Ashok Pandey, a resident of Bairgania in Sitamarhi district, said, “The people will observe the day as ‘Saurya Diwas’. It’s a victory of ‘Ram bhakts’ who have been fighting a legal battle for long.” Soil from five places – Janki Sthan Janki temple, Janki temple at Punaura Dham, Haleshwar Sthan temple, Saint Pakar temple and Bagahi Dham – will be sent to Ayodhya for the ‘bhoomi pujan’. “These places were closely associated with Sita and are now part of the Ramayan circuit,” said Gangesh Mishra, a priest. Meanwhile, Kameshwar Chaupal, a former MLC and member of Ram Janambhumi Thirth Kshetra, has appealed to people to perform puja in their homes between 11.30am and 12.30pm on August 5 to mark the ‘bhoomi pujan’ at Ayodhya. He has also urged the devotees to make arrangements for people to watch live telecast of the function in big halls and spacious places. Chaupal said people should donate as per their wish for the construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bhoomi-pujan-of-ram-temple-bihars-sitamarhi-ready-for-mini-diwali/articleshow/77205093.cms||Ramashankar
July 28, 2020||Kolkata||Electricity bills row: Calcutta HC seeks report||KOLKATA: The Calcutta High Court on Monday directed the state to file an affidavit by August 5 on steps taken to resolve the electricity bill issue in Kolkata. The order followed a writ petition seeking an injunction restraining power utilities from charging ad hoc payment for electricity consumed during the lockdown. The court also directed the petitioner to file an affidavit pinpointing the anomalies in the bills issued by CESC and WBSEDCL. In the writ petition filed on Monday, the petitioner questioned whether electricity utilities could issue ad hoc bills without meter reading in April, May and June. The petitioner said electricity supply companies have remained indifferent to the exceptional circumstances during lockdown. CESC and WBSEDCL had issued provisional bills for April and May when meters were not read. Both utilities said the June bill issued after meter reading took into account the provisional bills of the previous two months. Following allegations of inflated billing for June, CESC has put the June bill on hold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/electricity-bills-row-hc-seeks-state-report/articleshow/77206876.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Patna||22 BMP jawans test Covid positive||PATNA: Altogether 22 personnel of the 12th and 15th battalions of the Bihar Military Police (BMP) deployed at the Kosi barrage base camp in Supaul district have tested positive for Covid-19 and admitted to the isolation ward of the ANM training centre at Birpur. Basantpur primary health centre in-charge, Dr Arjun Prasad, said the area had been turned into a containment zone and people’s entry restricted in order to check the spread of the virus. “The infected jawans, who were deputed at Bhimnagar in Supaul, have been given tips on how to maintain social distancing and deal with mental stress while remaining in isolation,” he added. Birpur sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) Ramanand Kumar Kaushal visited the facility on Monday to “boost the morale of the jawans”. The SDPO said, “At present, 250 jawans, belonging to the two battalions, have been deployed at the Kosi barrage camp to keep an eye on the irrigation facility.” The BMP base camp is near the border outpost manned by the Sashastra Seema Bal personnel. Outpost in-charge, Ramashanker, said the samples of the infected jawans had been sent for getting tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/22-bmp-jawans-test-covid-positive/articleshow/77205370.cms||Ramashankar
July 28, 2020||Goa||Under fire, CM Pramod Sawant admits Goa has dodgy internet network||PORVORIM: Facing criticism for pushing online classes despite poor network, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday admitted that there’s no internet connectivity in many parts of the state, and blamed people’s opposition to mobile towers for it. “In many places there is no connectivity, but opposition to towers continues,” said Sawant, adding that there are 250 pending applications for installing mobile towers. “I appeal to the people not to oppose the installation of towers, so that connectivity improves.” Sawant said that the government would soon come out with a telecom policy. Leader of opposition Digambar Kamat, Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai, and Madkai MLA Ramkrishna Dhavalikar highlighted how students are facing problems with online learning. They also asked how the government could have gone ahead with it without knowing the ground reality of scarce network. TOI, too, has consistently reported how the lack of internet connectivity in the state is hampering students’ access to education. The paper, on July 19, reported how children wrapped in tarpaulin trek 3km to a hill in Surla to get network from a tower in neighbouring Karnataka. It also reported how across the state, students are forced to visit beaches, cashew plantations and temples in search of network. Sardesai also grilled Sawant on his discontinuation of the cyberage scheme, which was started by former CM Manohar Parrikar, Sawant’s self-professed ‘guru’. Sawant retorted that Parrikar was indeed his guru, but that the scheme was discontinued based on a report by the directorate of education, which considered the views of teachers and other education stakeholders. Responding to a question on whether he would resurrect the scheme, which provided laptops to students, Sawant said that his government may announce a scheme to provide devices to needy students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/under-fire-sawant-admits-state-has-dodgy-internet-network/articleshow/77208950.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Lucknow||We took right decisions on time: PM Narendra Modi||LUCKNOW: Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the country took right decisions on Covid-19 pandemic at the right time and that’s the reason why the condition here is better than in most countries. PM Modi inaugurated three testing labs on Monday, one of which is at ICMR-National Institute of Cancer Prevention and Research, Noida and will increase testing in Uttar Pradesh by 10,000 per day. The other two labs are at the ICMR-National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health, Mumbai, and ICMR-National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases, Kolkata. In his address, the PM said, “Delhi NCR, Mumbai and Kolkata are important economic centres. The labs that have opened here will not just test for Covid-19 but will also be used for Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, HIV, dengue etc in future.” “The death rate in India is relatively low while recovery rate is very high. Since the beginning, our effort was to create a Corona specific health system and for this, the government allocated Rs 15,000 crore for isolation centres, Covid hospitals, testing, tracking etc,” he said. Hailing the huge rise in PPE kit and protective gear production in country, he said,”At one point, not a single PPE kit was manufactured in India but now, we are the second largest PPE kit manufacturer in the world. More than 1,200 manufacturers are producing 5 lakh PPE kits a day. Hailing the huge rise in PPE kit and protective gear production in country, he said,”At one point, not a single PPE kit was manufactured in India but now, we are the second largest PPE kit manufacturer in the world. More than 1,200 manufacturers are producing 5 lakh PPE kits a day. “N-95 masks had to be imported at one point, but today 3 lakh are being manufactured,” he said. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said UP was contributing 15% of the total tests in country. “On March 23, 2020, 72 tests were carried out, but more than 1.06 lakh were done on July 26,” he said. Yogi praised Union home minister Amit Shah’s model for combating Covid-19 and said UP would adopt it as well. He told the PM about Covid help desks and the door to door surveys in 59,000 gram panchayats and 12,000 urban local body wards. “A Covid Care Fund had been set up from which funds are being used to establish RTPCR lab in each medical college and divisional headquarters. We are also procuring COBAS machines for KGMU and SGPGI in Lucknow and BRD Medical College in Gorakhpur,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/modi-we-took-right-decisions-on-time/articleshow/77209038.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Gaya DM tells officials to ready 1,000 isolation beds||GAYA: District magistrate Abhishek Singh has directed the officials concerned to ready 1,000 isolation beds in view of the surge in the Covid-19 cases in Gaya. For the last several days, more than 100 positive cases per day are being reported in the district. Anugrah Narain Magadh Medical College Hospital (ANMMCH), which is a dedicated facility for treatment of Covid-19 patients, has recorded at least 17 deaths due to the virus. Gaya IMA chief Dr Ram Sewak Prasad Singh welcomed the decision, but said additional beds alone would not be enough. “Deputation of doctors, paramedical staff, medical waste disposal mechanism, firefighting facility are also very important. As large number of oxygen cylinders will be required at Covid care centres, installation of adequate number of fire extinguishers and instant availability of fire tenders has to be ensured,” he said. According to Dr Ratan Kumar, the hospital management was now an specialized activity and the hospital management specialists should be utilized. “Spare the doctors only for dedicated treatment and let hospital management specialists do the infrastructure creation/development work,” suggested Dr Kumar. The health department has already directed the ANMMCH principal as well as superintendent not to sanction leave of any doctor on Covid duty and ensure transparency in their deputation. A letter in this regard from principal secretary (health) was received by the hospital authorities on Sunday. The principal has been made responsible for the preparation and implementation of the duty roster. All doctors should be allotted ward duty, says the directive. The directive specially refers to the involvement of senior doctors of the rank of associate professors. In order to ensure transparency and proper monitoring, a copy of the duty chart is to be displayed outside the Covid ward and a copy of the same should be forwarded to the divisional commissioner as well as to the DM. According to sources, health department officials have also received complaints about senior doctors shirking responsibility and leaving for juniors, including residents and interns, to handle the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gaya-dm-tells-officials-to-ready-1000-isolation-beds/articleshow/77205258.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Business||InCred kicks off talks to merge with KKR’s NBFC||BENGALURU: Global alternatives assets major KKR is in advanced discussions to merge its corporate lending unit KKR India Financial Services with InCred Finance, started by former Deutsche Bank executive Bhupinder Singh. This would be one of the major consolidation moves in the non-banking finance companies (NBFC) space. The two companies have entered into exclusive discussions for the next six-eight weeks, said sources briefed on the matter, as they look to finalise terms. The deal, if successful, will create an NBFC with a loan book of over Rs 6,000 crore with a focus on the consumer lending segment. The deal will make KKR and its backers, which include sovereign wealth fund Abu Dhabi Investment Authority (ADIA) and US-based Texas Teacher Retirement System, the largest direct shareholders in the merged entity. They would hold a little over a third of the company. “The deal will give InCred exposure to a corporate lending portfolio, which its team has had an experience in managing besides backing of large investors as well. There is no capital infusion needed right now as both companies have low gearing ratios,” said one of the sources briefed on the matter. KKR had also held discussions with other NBFCs for a potential deal for the last few quarters. KKR and InCred spokespersons declined to comment when contacted by TOI. KKR India Asset Finance, another NBFC floated by the PE firm to focus on the real estate space, is not part of the deal. InCred has raised over Rs 1,000 crore till now from Investcorp, Manipal chief Ranjan Pai, Dutch government-owned FMO, Moore Venture Partners, Paragon Partners, Elevar, former Deutsche Bank global CEO Anshu Jain and OAKS Asset Management. It also recently announced a Rs 500-crore debt fund-raise as well. The deal comes after KKR said it will infuse $150 million in the unit after several portfolio companies faced repayment issues as they got caught up in a liquidity crisis. KKR India head and veteran banker Sanjay Nayar had taken over as CEO of the NBFC unit in October from B V Krishnan, who stepped down citing personal reasons. Founded in 2016 by Singh, former head of investment banking at Deutsche Bank Asia-Pacific, InCred focuses on personal, small business and education loans. It has 500,000 customers in over 20 cities across India, with a strong focus on technology. Last month, it acquired fintech platform Qbera to build up its distribution. InCred had a loan portfolio of Rs 2,069 crore as on March 31, 2020, according to a recent note by Crisil. “For InCred, on the asset side, around 59% of the borrowers and about 52% of the loan book is under moratorium as on May 31, 2020. The company’s collection efficiency for April and May range from 55 to 60% overall (including under moratorium book). According to the management, the collection efficiency has increased in June 2020... Nevertheless, Crisil notes that InCred has adequate equity capital to absorb high credit costs, if any, in fiscal 2021,” said the note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/incred-kicks-off-talks-to-merge-with-kkrs-nbfc/articleshow/77206967.cms||Madhav Chanchani
July 28, 2020||Mysuru||Forest department officials await nod for two more safari zones||Mysuru: Bandipur Tiger Reserve (BTR) authorities are planning to develop two more safari zones for tourists. They have sent a proposal to the government to have wildlife safaris at the backwater of Nugu Reservoir in Hediyala Forest Range and near the Kabini River at Gundre Forest Range on the border with Kerala, both in Mysuru district. There are 13 forest ranges in BTR — in which Gundre, N Begur, Moliyur, Ainur Marigudi, Hediyala, Nugu wildlife sanctuary come under Mysuru while Omkara, Maddur, Moolehole, GS Betta, Gundlupet Buffer Zone, Bandipur and Kundukere range come under Chamarajanagar district. There is huge demand from tourists throughout the year for safari in Bandipur, which has the highest number tigers in the country and at Kakanakote Safari Centre (Kabini backwaters safari) coming under Nagarahole Tiger Reserve. To reduce the burden on these two places, authorities have proposed two more safari zones. BTR director T Balachandra told TOI, “Due to rainy season and some legal issues, it will take some time to start the wildlife safari. We will have to set right all the issues.” But first, the authorities must convince the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) and the Supreme Court before starting new safari zones. A senior forest officer told TOI that as per NTCA guidelines and an SC direction, the safari should be conducted within 10 percent of the total reserve. “In 2012, all the safari was closed for four months. Later the SC asked us to submit a report on following the guidelines and we submitted an affidavit. Later the SC lifted the ban on safaris, but only after setting the 10% limit,” the officer said. BTR covers more than 912 square km of forest area and conducts safari in 54sq km in Bandipur range. “Around 20 sq kms more can be used for safari,” the officer said. Short film on tigers The forest department is bringing out a four-minute short film on tigers titled - Tigers a keystone species. It will be released on International Tiger Day celebrated on July 29. The film, shot in Bandipur, Nagarahole, Male Mahadeshwara Swamy Wildlife Sanctuary and other places, is in the final stage of completion. While two foresters shot at various places, another forester has given the narration for the film. The editing has been done by experts from outside the department. MM Hills Wildlife Sanctuary DCF V Yedukondalu has written the script and directed the film. Yedukondalu told TOI, “Tigers are on the top of the food chain. As top predators, they keep populations of prey species like deer and herbivores animals in check. If there are no tigers, herbivores like deer and wild boar will breed rapidly and the entire forest will be destroyed.” “The short film will be released on the forest department’s website, Twitter and Facebook. Kannada film actor Darshan Tugudeepa who is our brand ambassador will conclude the film with a message,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/forest-department-officials-await-nod-for-two-more-safari-zones/articleshow/77204963.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
July 28, 2020||Surat||SDA demands two workers on emery wheel||Surat: Chandu Sheta, owner of a small diamond unit having about 50 emery wheels is yet to restart his unit post-lockdown. It is not that he is facing the shortage of workers, but even if he wants to start his unit he can’t. Reason: The Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) issued by Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) permits only one diamond worker on the emery wheel for the cutting and polishing of diamonds to contain the spread of coronavirus infection. “The electricity cost would be the same if the emery wheel has one or four workers doing the cutting and polishing job. Every four days, the emery wheels have to be cleaned and polished, which costs Rs 500 per machine. However, it is not viable for me to operate the unit with only 50 workers on 50 emery wheels,” said Sheta. Like Sheta, majority of the small and medium diamond units have not been able to restart post-lockdown due to the stricter SOP issued by the SMC to contain the spread of the Covid-19 infection. The Surat Diamond Association (SDA) has stated that out of the total 4,000 diamond units, hardly 200 units have restarted post-lockdown. Many small diamond units are not able to operate their units due to the stricter guidelines issued by the SMC. The SDA has demanded that the SMC must allow at least two workers to sit on the emery wheels for the cutting and polishing of diamonds. “A diamond unit having 50 emery wheels was giving employment to about 200 workers. In present circumstances, 50 emery wheels could provide employment to only 50 workers. But, this results in higher production cost, which the unit owners are not able to bear due to weak diamond demand in the international market. Thus, we have suggested the civic body to allow at least two workers to sit on the emery wheels,” said president of SDA, Babu Kathiriya. “Post-lockdown, I reopened the unit with less than 50 workers, but soon shut the unit after the SMC issued SOP allowing only one worker on the emery wheel. I will restart the unit only when there are some relaxation in the SOP,” said Ghanshyam Gabani, who owns a diamond unit having 200 emery wheels. A senior health officer in SMC told TOI: “There is a serious issue of social distancing among the workers sitting on the emery wheels. Between workers, there is less than one feet distance, which makes them vulnerable for contracting the Covid-19 infection. Over 1,500 diamond workers have been infected since the start of June.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sda-demands-two-workers-on-emery-wheel/articleshow/77205185.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Mangaluru||Indian fish taxonomist gets freshwater fish named after him||Mangaluru: A team of scientists from the Bombay Natural History Society, Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies, Modern College, Pune, and the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune, have discovered a new genus and species of freshwater fish in the Western Ghats. This new species has been named as Waikhomia hira. Waikhomia is in honour of Vishwanath Waikhom, a professor at Manipur University, and hira means diamond, and refers to the small symmetrical, rhomboidal spots on the side of the fish’s body. “Professor Waikhom is one of India’s greatest living fish taxonomists, who has described over 100 species of freshwater fishes, and worked tirelessly to promote the science of taxonomy and systematics in the country,” said Dr Rajeev Raghavan, assistant professor at the Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies, and a senior author on the paper. The Maharaja Barb, Puntius sahyadriensis, a member of the freshwater fish family Cyprinidae, was described in 1953 from the Yenna River at Mahabaleshwar, and subsequently recorded from several east and west flowing rivers in Maharashtra and Karnataka. An integrative taxonomic study suggested that the species is distinct from Puntius, within which it is currently included, as well as from all other members of the family Cyprinidae. The authors have proposed a new genus name—Waikhomia—to accommodate this unique species. “Currently, the distribution of the new species is restricted to the upstream catchment of the Kali River system near Chandewadi, Kamra, and only future surveys in and around this region, as well as in adjoining river systems will give us a clear idea of the larger distribution range of this species,” said Unmesh Katwate, scientist at the Bombay Natural History Society, and the lead author of the study. The rivers in the central and northern parts of the Western Ghats, particularly in northern Karnataka and Maharashtra, are poorly explored for their fish diversity. “Some of the rivers in the northern parts of the Western Ghats possesses high levels of ichthyofaunal diversity, but intensive exploratory surveys, taxonomic revisions, and molecular methods are urgently required to uncover this hidden diversity,” said Dr Neelesh Dahanukar, a scientist at IISER, Pune, and senior author of the paper. The paper discussing these results was published in the leading international journal, ‘Zootaxa’ on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/indian-fish-taxonomist-gets-freshwater-fish-named-after-him/articleshow/77205457.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
July 28, 2020||Patna||PMC identifies 91 areas to fix waterlogging problem||PATNA: The Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) has identified 91 areas in the city where it takes a longer period for rainwater to drain out. The PMC engineers have started fixing the manholes, remodelling drainage networks, replacing dysfunctional pipelines and connecting residential areas to the sump houses by laying new pipelines. PMC commissioner Himanshu Sharma said the engineers conducted a survey of the chronic areas to know the reasons behind prolonged waterlogging and reverse water flow from the drainage. “In Rajvanshi Nagar, when the outfall of sewage network resists the water, it starts gushing out from the manholes and floods the streets. The engineers have now raised the height of manholes to almost 5-6 feet with proper cover. The water will not overflow and will create more pressure for immediate draining of water from the culvert,” Himanshu said. “The same technique has been followed in some other areas under New Capital circle and nearby areas of RK Avenue sump house,” he added. As per the PMC survey, 21 out of the 91 areas are in Bankipore circle, 19 each in Patliputra and Azimabad circle, 17 in New Capital circle, 13 in Kankerbagh and two in Patna City circle. In addition, the civic body has sanctioned proposals of laying new pipelines in Arya Kumar Road, Ram Nagar, Ashok Nagar, Saidpur, ward number 3 behind IGIMS, Indira Nagar, Ram Vilas Chowk and Ram Lakhan Path areas by utilizing the funds of Rs5 crore. Himanshu on Monday said the work of laying 100 metres underground pipelines has started and would be completed in the next 10 days. “We will connect this pipeline to RK Avenue sump house. The rainwater from Arya Kumar Road and Nala Road and adjoining areas will recede in four hours, instead of eight hours,” he said. In Patliputra Colony (ward number 22), the PMC would replace the old pipeline as there were some connecting issues with the main drain due to faulty set-up of pipes, leading to blockage in the chamber. PMC has pumped out water from several ponds like Bazaar Samiti talab, at Bhagwat Nagar and Machchli Bazaar near Ambedkar Colony. “In Bazaar Samiti, water will easily recede from areas like Nahar Road, Rampur Road, Mahavir Lane and Ram Krishna Colony and nearby areas,” he said and added, “These measures will help us in draining out water in minimum possible time during the monsoon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pmc-identifies-91-areas-to-fix-waterlogging-problem/articleshow/77205253.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 28, 2020||Mysuru||Man dies of Covid, kin blame officials||Chikkamagaluru: A man from from Lingadalli in Tarikere taluk, who had tested positive for Covid-19, succumbed to the virus, even as his family members blamed the health authorities for his death. They alleged that he did not get timely treatment. The victim’s mother too died of Covid-19 last week. The deceased is a 33-year-old man, who got married two months ago. He had developed SARI. His father said that the swab test report came late. After he tested positive for Covid-19, it took 12 hours to shift him to the hospital because of non-availability of ambulance, be said. The villagers also blamed the health department for neglecting Covid patients. They said that the many Covid cases are being reported from Lingadalli and surrounding villages. However, test reports are arriving late. Sometimes it takes two weeks for the test reports to arrive. By then the patient’s condition deteriorates. Getting an ambulance on time has become increasingly difficult,they said. However, Chikkamagaluru deputy commssioner Bagadi Goutham denied the allegations. “The patient was brought by ambulance to the district Covid hospital at 1.45pm on Sunday. He died at 2.30pm at the hospital. The allegation made by villagers is completely false and the district administration has always been proactive,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/man-dies-of-covid-kin-blame-officials/articleshow/77206736.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Rajkot||RCC Bank manager booked for ice cream parlour chain owner’s suicide||Rajkot: The manager of Rajkot Commercial Co-operative Bank Ltd (RCC Bank) was booked on Sunday night for allegedly abetting the suicide of the owner of a prominent ice cream parlour chain in Rajkot. Police said Pankaj Karia (50) had consumed pesticide in his car parked near Ramkrushna Nagar garden in Rajkot on Sunday afternoon. After committing the act, Karia sent a message on WhatsApp to his estranged wife Avani Raja (47) who lives in Vejalpur locality of Ahmedabad.“When Avani called Karia, he told her that he had consumed pesticide. Avani then called up Rajkot police control room and 108 emergency ambulance service. After a while we called her up, informing her about the death of Karia,” said an official from Rajkot A division police station. RCC Bank general manager Parshottam Pipadia was booked for suicide abatement after it was found that Karia, in his last message had named him as responsible for him ending life. Sources said that Pipadia and Karia had a dispute of over Rs 20 lakh that was result of some financial dealings between the two on personal as well as business front.In his message, Karia alleged that Pipadia had siphoned off the money from his bank account. “Pipadia had been threatening to frame me in a false case and have me arrested for the past one and a half months. I am in depression because of this and hence take this drastic step,” Karia said in his last message. The message that Karia sent to Avani is addressed to Rajkot police commissioner, where he has requested the CP to initiate a probe based on the account book which has details of financial transactions between him and Pipadia. Karia had divorced Avani on July 22. The couple had no children. Karia was owner Maganlal Ice Cream Parlour, a well-known chain of ice cream shops in Rajkot, with one branch in Ahmedabad as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rcc-bank-manager-booked-for-ice-cream-parlour-chain-owners-suicide/articleshow/77205539.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Rajkot||At 60, Rajkot resident with comorbidities defeats Covid-19||Rajkot: You do not have to fear Covid-19. But you have to be brave enough to fight it. These were the words of 60-year-old Ramesh Gohil, a Rajkot resident, who has successfully fought the battle against Covid-19. Before he got infected by the virus, Gohil was already suffering from diabetes, which complicates treatment of such patients. To top it, he also had another comorbid condition – heart ailment. But neither diabetes nor heart ailment could deter Gohil’s spirit. “If you take proper treatment, you, too, can defeat the virus, like me,” said Gohil as he got discharged on Monday. Gohil had developed fever after which he had consulted his family doctor. “As advised, I underwent Covid-19 test at Rajkot civil hospital. Report of my samples were positive,” recollected Gohil. Gohil however did not press the panic button. “I got admitted at the civil hospital. The doctors and staff at the hospital treated me like their own family member,” he said. “With regular dosages of medicines and intake of two meals and breakfast, my health gradually improved. I was later shifted to samras hostel, where too I received very nice treatment,” Gohil said while sharing his experience with the government facility. Gohil said that it is a myth that government hospitals are not capable of providing proper Covid-19 treatment. “It is a complete myth that the civil hospital is ill-equipped to treat Covid-19 patients. I am a live example of a patient who is not only treated well but also fully recovers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/at-60-rajkot-resident-with-comorbidities-defeats-covid-19/articleshow/77205413.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Western flank of setu to reopen on July 31||PATNA: Union minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari will inaugurate the rehabilitated western flank of Mahatma Gandhi Setu over the Ganga between Patna and Hajipur though videoconferencing on July 31. The western flank of the key bridge connecting north and south Bihar has been rehabilitated by the Union ministry of road, transport and highways (MoRTH) after demolition of its old superstructure, except pillars, and erection of triangular steel girders with concrete slab. The rehabilitation work on Gandhi Setu is being carried out by AFCON Infrastructure Ltd in joint venture with Sibmost. The Union cabinet had approved rehabilitation of the Setu on July 22, 2016 with an estimated expenditure of Rs 1,742 crore. The western flank of the bridge was rehabilitated in the first stage of the project, which had started in February 2017. The work got delayed by two months earlier this year owing to the nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic. State road construction minister Nand Kishor Yadav told TOI that vehicular movement will commence on the western flank of the Setu after its inauguration. As of now, vehicles from both sides move in the eastern flank of the old bridge. “The inaugural event will be presided by CM Nitish Kumar and will be Gandkariji, who will inaugurate the western flank of the bridge from New Delhi, will be the chief guest. All of us will take part in the event through videoconferencing,” Nand Kishor said, adding finishing touches like laying of mastic asphalt and painting work will be given in the next couple of days. With steel girders having been placed in rehabilitation of the bridge, its western flank now looks similar to rail-cum-road bridges like Rajendra Setu or Koilwar rail bridge. The road construction minister said after commencement of vehicular movement on the western flank of the bridge, rehabilitation work on eastern flank will commence. “The rehabilitation work on the eastern flank will commence after demolition of the existing superstructure. This will lead to one-way movement of vehicles on the western flank,” he said, adding the rehabilitation work on the eastern flank of the bridge will be completed in another 18 months. The minister said the construction agency has been asked to strictly adhere to Covid-19 prevention norms while executing the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/western-flank-of-setu-to-reopen-on-july-31/articleshow/77205058.cms||Piyush Tripathi
July 28, 2020||Goa||Without debate, discussion and opposition, govt passes Goa budget||PORVORIM: In a move that drew widespread criticism from all quarters, the Pramod Sawant-led government passed the Rs 21,000-crore budget without any discussion and after evicting the entire opposition from the House on Monday. Amid unruly scenes, the government also used its brute strength of 27 MLAs in the 40-member House to push through demands and bills, which was termed by the opposition as a “murder of democracy”. The united opposition’s move for an adjournment motion to discuss Covid and its demand for a reset of the Rs 353.6-crore surplus budget was brushed aside by the government, with chief minister Pramod Sawant even saying the passing of the budget was essential for Covid management. But in the pandemonium, what was lost was there were no details of how Sawant and his team would manage the deteriorating Covid situation in the state. That a cash-strapped government passed a surplus budget was not lost on many financial experts, who reckoned that it was mere window dressing of numbers and the government was never serious about it. If the government tried to “bulldoze” its way through the budget and a host of legislations, the opposition also ensured that they won the mindspace among the people and eyeballs in the social media. Even as speaker Rajesh Patnekar removed the slogan-shouting opposition members from the House to pass the budget, they were able to create a perception that the government was not serious in putting up a united front to fight the deadly virus. The government’s passing of the budget without any discussion and the speaker rejecting the adjournment motion gave much gunpower to the opposition over Covid management in the state which has seen 36 persons, including a 14-year-old girl, losing their lives to the virus. While the government went ahead with the budget, the opposition caused much embarrassment to the state BJP as they met governor Satya Pal Malik and urged him to recommend President’s Rule in the state. They complained to Malik, a high-profile governor, that the Sawant government has committed mockery of the Constitution by rushing through the budget in a few minutes. Opposition leader Digambar Kamat told the governor that the government didn’t allow the adjournment motion to come up for discussion fearing mismanagement and irregularities in handling of the Covid crisis would be exposed. Sawant, who was under attack from the opposition, tried to justify passing of the budget. “If we want to do Covid management, then it is essential to pass the budget and I request the opposition to allow the business,” he said. GFP president Vijai Sardesai highlighted the point that the budget was presented in February, much before the pandemic and said the budget has to be revised in tune with the current situation. In the opposition’s absence, the government passed the budget for 2020-21 and the demands for all departments. The state assembly passed the Goa Appropriation (no. 2) Bill, 2020, empowering the government to withdraw over Rs 21,056 crore from the state’s consolidated fund for the financial year 2020-21. The assembly also passed supplementary grants for Rs 286 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/without-debate-discussion-and-oppn-govt-passes-state-budget/articleshow/77208883.cms||Murari Shetye
July 28, 2020||Business||Global liquidity glut, Covid cloud push up metal prices||MUMBAI: An unprecedented amount of funds being infused by central banks around the world is driving metal prices up. Gold is now at an all-time peak, silver’s price has more than doubled since its March low, and copper is up more than 40%. And if analysts and reports by industry experts are to be believed, the rally is far from over. Along with the central banks’ liquidity infusion steps, Covid-related uncertainties and US-China disputes at various levels are prompting demand for safe haven investments like the two precious metals. An expected weakness of the dollar against some of the major currencies is also driving investors towards gold and silver. The demand for copper, on the other hand, is due to expected industrial demand, mainly from China, as well as hoarding by the Asian giant in anticipation of a supply disruptions, analysts said. On the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CMX), gold futures for September delivery rose to $1,950 per ounce, breaking a peak reached nine years ago at $1,927. International analysts are looking at the yellow metal to break above the $2,000 barrier soon. On the CMX, silver was at around $24/ounce, while copper was at $2.9/pound. In India too, gold is trading at a new peak, at over Rs 52,000/10gm, while silver is at over Rs 65,000/kg level, and copper is at Rs 506/kg, data from MCX showed. Motilal Oswal Commodities Broker head (commodities & currency) Kishore Narne said almost all asset classes are witnessing a liquidity driven rally due to fund infusions by central banks around the globe. “Assets that have given better returns in the last two years are attracting higher investor interest…and hence the strong rally in gold.” Gold, in the last two years, has given a return of 55%, CMX data showed, while S&P 500 has returned 11.3% and, back home, the sensex is slightly lower than what it was in end-July 2018. Recently, Bank of America Securities had put out a report on gold with a price target of $3,000/ounce by end-2021. This, at current rupee-dollar exchange rate, would translate into a price of Rs 83,000/10gm in India. Narne has a price target of Rs 65,000 for the yellow metal by end 2021, but feels this price could be hit much ahead of that timeline. The rally in silver is also attributed to its long under-performance. After rising to a peak at near $50 in late April 2011, it traded below $20 level for years and then dipped to a recent low at below $12 in late March from where the current rally started. Copper, on the other hand, is a slightly different asset class compared to gold and silver. It finds wide use in manufacturing of electronics, electrical appliances and automobiles. Recently, due to the spread of Covid-infections in Peru and Chile, the two major copper ore suppliers, there are expectations some mines could close down and there would be some shortage of supply of the metal. “This is prompting some countries, especially China, to hoard this metal for future use and hence the strong rally,” Narne said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/global-liquidity-glut-covid-cloud-push-up-metal-prices/articleshow/77207366.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Rajkot||Two thieves flee after testing Covid-19 positive||Rajkot: Two vehicle thieves escaped from the observation ward of the Rajkot Civil Hospital after they came to know that they had tested Covid-19 positive on Sunday night. Police said the accused _ Hasmukh Vajhelia (30) and Vikram Vajhelia (25) _ were arrested with a stolen bike. “We had also recovered eight stolen cellphones and Rs 20,000 cash from their possession. Before formally arresting them, we took them to the Rajkot Civil Hospital for their Covid-19 test,” said an official from the Kuwadava Road Police Station. “When they came to know that their test reports had confirmed them as Covid-19 positive, they had escaped from the observation ward on the third floor of the hospital,” said the official. The accused were also involved in three to four thefts from factories. Meanwhile, five cops who had come in contact with the accused duo have been home quarantined. “We have formed three teams of Rajkot Crime Branch and Kuwadava Road Police Station to launch a manhunt for the accused. As the accused live in Chotila, we have sent a team there,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-thieves-flee-after-testing-covid-19-positive/articleshow/77205376.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Chandigarh||PU senators submit conflicting requests on election schedule||Chandigarh: A few Panjab University senators have demanded rescheduling of senate elections to be held in August in view of the Covid-19 crisis. In a representation which four senators of the BJP-DAV group submitted to Chancellor of Panjab university, M Venkaiah Naidu, the effect of the Covid-19 crisis in Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh and Haryana was stressed. Countering this, three senators of Navdeep Goyal and Ashok Goyal group also submitted a representation to the chancellor urging that senate elections be conducted on schedule for smooth functioning of the governing body. In the morning, BJP-DAV group senators S S Sangha, Varinder Singh Gill, Subhash Sharma and Gurdeep Sharma submitted their representation saying that the senate elections are scheduled to take place in August and September, for which members would probably travel from Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and adjoining states. The scheduled time for elections is 9am to 5pm and more than 20 members who would cast their vote would be travelling from adjoining areas. Senators stated that due to Covid-19 norms, these travellers might be asked to quarantine or might have been quarantined before. If any of the members has been exposed to the virus or has been in direct or indirect contact with a patient, he would not be able to cast his vote, which would have a direct impact on the election results. In view of this, BJP-DAV group senators demanded rescheduling of senate elections. On the other hand, senators Navdeep Goyal, Ronki Ram and Keshav Mahlotra stated in their representation that governance could not be brought to a standstill. The PU senate can not be precluded from running the university as per the PU Act of 1947, but unfortunately, some sitting senators, who are also potential candidates, demand rescheduling of elections, they said. Members stated that the election process of university senate has already started and final voter lists of various constituencies have been released. Nominations for 16 seats have been filled till date, therefore, rescheduling should not be considered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-senators-submit-conflicting-requests-on-election-schedule/articleshow/77207065.cms||Aarti Kapur
July 28, 2020||Allahabad||Mela Authority’s land row with defence min to end soon||Prayagraj: The years-old trouble of Prayagraj Mela Authority of taking the mela land on lease from the defence ministry and the disagreement between the two over permanent construction on it last year, may finally see a permanent settlement. The district administration has moved a proposal which would lead to handing over of the land having the old office, Integrated Control and Command Centre (ICCC) and Mela SSP office permanently to Prayagraj Mela Authority, if land of the same area is provided to the army elsewhere. Prayagraj Mela Authority has sent a letter to defence ministry in this regard in response to a letter from defence ministry’s OSD (Defence Land) Rupesh Kumar, wherein it agreed to transfer the land, provided land of same size is given to it in exchange. The parade area comes under defence land. The district administration used to take the 3,723 square metres of land on lease from defence authorities for a few months every year for organising the Magh mela and longer duration for Kumbh Mela. In July last year, two permanent structures — the ICCC building and Mela SSP office — were constructed on it which led to a dispute. The army barricaded the road leading to these buildings claiming the buildings are illegal since the construction is against terms of the lease. The district administration is actively looking for alternate land to be given to the army. “We have moved a proposal offering land of the same area and value to the defence ministry if it gives us the land where three buildings, ICCC, SSP office and old office are located. The long-standing problem faced every year would be resolved amicably,” said Mela Adhikari and City Magistrate, Rajnish Kumar Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/mela-authoritys-land-row-with-defence-min-to-end-soon/articleshow/77207203.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Nagpur||NMC allows home isolation of asymptomatic Covid patients||Nagpur: Two days after converting four big quarantine centres into Covid Care Centres (CCCs) and discharging over 1,000 suspects, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) went a step ahead on Monday evening to permit home isolation of asymptomatic Covid-positive patients. The major announcement came on a day the district touched a new high of 274 Covid-19 cases and ten deaths. TOI learnt about the key decision on Saturday, but held back the news following requests from officials. As on date, 569 patients are admitted in all three dedicated Covid hospitals — AIIMS, GMCH and IGGMCH, which have around 1,200 beds in total. The move is likely to free up around 80% of these beds, since those many are said to be asymptomatic patients there. Confirming the development, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe told TOI that they “have decided accordingly”, when asked about isolation of asymptomatic patients at home. The announcement was made following a press conference of district guardian minister Nitin Raut at the divisional commisioner’s office. Divisional commissioner Dr Sanjeev Kumar, deputy director of health services Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, district collector Ravindra Thakare, GMCH dean Dr Sajal Mitra, IGGMCH dean Dr Ajay Keolia and key health officials were present. “It is a joint decision. District administration had already initiated it in Kamptee,” said collector Thakare, when asked if the district administration was following NMC. Nagpur follows Mumbai and Pune in adopting the Union health ministry’s July 2 revised guidelines for home isolation of very mild/pre-symptomatic/asymptomatic Covid-19 cases. The norms were later adopted by the state public health department on July 7, based on which the NMC too revised its policy. Dr Mitra said it is the need of the hour. “Cases are surging drastically. The move will definitely cut the strain on facilities and help concentrate on critical patients,” he said, adding that patients not meeting the home isolation norms will be kept in CCCs. As per the norms, patients suffering from a compromised immune status — especially those with HIV, cancer and transplant recipients — are not eligible for home isolation. Elderly patients with co-morbidities like hypertension, diabetes, chronic lung, liver or kidney ailments shall be allowed home isolation after assessment by medical officer. All patients will have to be clinically assigned as asymptomatic, and ensure they have adequate facilities before proceeding for home isolation. Though no date has been announced for implementation of the new norms, the civic body is likely to follow the policy in the next two days. The health officials said, “Only in-principle decision has been taken. The implementation part would be done by NMC. The home isolation is optional. Those not having facilities will have the option to stay at a hotel or CCC,” they said. NMC health teams would continue contact tracing and admit high risk suspects in institutional quarantine, from where they would either be shifted to hospital — if tested positive — or released for 14-day home isolation. Later, the eligible patients will be allowed home isolation, which will be a total of 17 days. The isolation period includes first 10 days without fever/other symptoms, and next seven as home quarantine. After home quarantine, no tests will be needed. On July 24, the NMC had planned to cut institutional quarantine period to seven days, amid the steep rise in cases. The next day, it suddenly decided to release Covid suspects who were negative in the first test at all quarantine centres, beside converting VNIT hostel, Pachpaoli police quarters, Symbiosis hostel and Vanamati into CCCs. TOI had reported these developments and highlighted the shortage of beds at hospitals. The asymptomatic patients in home isolation would remain under the supervision of zonal medical officers. The quarantine centres and CCCs would primarily cater to needy patients, officials said. The Guidelines * Patients to be sequenced as fit for CCC, DCHC, or DCH * Clinically assigned asymptomatic Covid positive patients having facilities for home isolation to qualify * NMC to form rapid response teams and deploy ambulances in each zone * Zonal medical officers to monitor asymptomatic patients * Patients need to report difficulty in breathing, dip in oxygen saturation, persistent pain/pressure in chest, mental confusion or inability to get aroused * Patients suffering from immune compromised status (HIV, transplant recipients, cancer etc) not eligible for home isolation * Elderly patients aged more than 60 years and those with co-morbid conditions shall only be allowed home isolation after proper evaluation by treating medical officer * Care giver should be available to provide care 24X7 * Communication link between caregiver and hospital prerequisite for entire duration of home isolation (Detailed guidelines at mohfw.gov.in)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-allows-home-isolation-of-asymptomatic-covid-patients/articleshow/77208385.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 28, 2020||Nagpur||CM has brought city’s devpt to a halt: Datke||Nagpur: Newly-elected MLC and former mayor Pravin Datke on Monday accused chief minister Uddhav Thackeray of playing dirty politics and bringing city’s development works to a grinding halt. Patting municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on the back by the CM is part of this, said Datke. The city had grown rapidly under the previous government, he said. Datke told reporters it was unfortunate that the chief minister appreciated Mundhe when the civic chief himself had allegedly “indulged in irregularities in Smart City project, disregarded implementation of the rulings passed in the NMC general body meeting and was causing obstruction in development works.” “Uddhav Thackeray is the chief minister of the state and he should also pay attention to the development of state’s second capital. Instead, he is patting on the back the civic chief who is obstructing the city’s development work,” he rued. He urged the CM to also look into the other side of the coin as the financial condition of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation is not good. Except in the last five years, the state had a NCP-Congress government and even during that period the pace of city’s development was maintained, Datke pointed out. Ruling party leader Sandip Jadhav, standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke, senior corporators Dayashankar Tiwari and Sunil Agrawal were present at the media interaction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cm-has-brought-citys-devpt-to-a-halt-datke/articleshow/77207080.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 28, 2020||Goa||Covid hospital needs upgrade, govt will do it: Goa minister||PORVORIM: Admitting that amenities at the ESI Hospital in Margao — the sole dedicated Covid-19 facility in the state — needed improvement, health minister Vishwajit Rane on Monday said the government plans to upgrade it. He also announced that each taluka would soon have a Covid care centre for which the support of local MLAs was required, and said that such centres were needed more than an additional Covid hospital. “There is opposition sometimes, but when people from our constituencies get Covid, we need to keep them. That is why we need a Covid care centre in every taluka so people can be treated and monitored there itself,” Rane said. Acknowledging shortcomings in cleanliness and food served to patients at existing Covid care centres and at the hospital, Rane said the directorate of health services plans to outsource the catering service to a private agency. “A few days earlier, the canteen staff at the Covid hospital tested positive. The housekeeping staff keeps testing positive. I have been discussing with the chief minister to bring in different agencies and the government is also making efforts even as the state faces financial difficulties,” he said. Where testing is concerned, Rane said at least 2,300 real-time PCR tests were being conducted on TrueNat machines at the district hospitals on a daily basis, while another 450 tests are conducted at GMC. Aside from this, the state has procured 1,000 antigen test kits, placed an order for 20,000 more and has received 5,000 antibody kits, he said. The minister did not miss the chance to take a dig at the opposition, even though the opposition MLAs had already been ejected from the House. He said that despite the strong criticism against the government, no written suggestions or recommendations have been received by the chief minister, the chief secretary or himself. “The ones who criticise us, the ones who became chief ministers and went, they criticise us on video conferences while sitting at home. I have asked some of them to come with me to the Covid hospital,” Rane said. He also tried to address speculations of a rift between him and chief minister Pramod Sawant, saying that they both took decisions together. He further urged the chief minister to take action against those spreading rumours about Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/health-min-assures-upgrades-at-covid-hosp-care-centre-for-each-taluka/articleshow/77209045.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Dehradun||Two persons missing after car falls into Tons||Dehradun: Two persons went missing on Monday morning after the pick-up vehicle they were travelling in plunged into Tons river near Laldhang on Koti-Tyuni road. Upon receiving information, police personnel and the flood rescue team of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) were sent to the spot for search and rescue operations. According to authorities, Tons is in spate due to constant rains in the state. This has posed difficulties before the rescue teams in search operation. “As per the preliminary information, there were two persons inside the car. Their identities are being ascertained,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-persons-missing-after-car-falls-into-tons/articleshow/77205450.cms||Gaurav Talwar
July 28, 2020||Lucknow||Now, grow mangoes in your home garden pot||Lucknow: Mango lovers in the city who have turned towards gardening to beat the lockdown blues amid the coronavirus pandemic appear to have taken a fancy to a ‘dwarf’ variety that can be easily grown in pots at home. The ICAR-CISH (Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture) has received increased demand for grafts of dwarf mango varieties from farmers and mango lovers of Lucknow in the last few days. CISH director Shailendra Rajan said, “Generally, large mango varieties cannot be grown in pots for many years. Therefore, to fulfil the demand of urban mango growers, we have the option of dwarf varieties.” The institute has developed varieties like Amrapali, Arunika and Ambika which are dwarf, fruit every year, are easy to harvest and can be grown in home gardens as well. Dwarf varieties are fit for high density planting which makes them profitable as they yield more fruit. This is the reason why many farmers now want them. Dwarf varieties are fit for high density planting which makes them profitable as they yield more fruit. This is the reason why many farmers now want them. Due to the large number of plants, it is possible to get a higher yield within a few years of planting. Fruits from small plants are easy to harvest and their maintenance is cost effective. Harvesting of fruits is a difficult task when the tree grows and at the time of harvesting many fruits fall and get damaged. In order to maintain the fruit quality while ripening, they need to be carefully hand-harvested at the right maturity stage and this is easy with small-sized plants. CISH could develop Arunika and Ambika after a three decade long breeding programme. Dwarf varieties bear red fruits which makes them attractive. “Mango varieties can be dwarf only if they bear fruit every year. This is the reason why plants of alternately fruiting varieties such as Chausa and Langra are larger in size,” said the director.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/now-grow-mangoes-in-your-home-garden-pot/articleshow/77209048.cms||Neha Shukla
July 28, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand HC Chief Justice Ranganathan retires||Nainital: Uttarakhand high court Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan retired on Monday after serving at the post for 21 months. At the farewell organised for Chief Justice Ranaganathan, his brother judges as well as senior lawyers praised his contribution to the field of law. In his tenure as the Chief Justice, Justice Ranganathan delivered landmark judgements on cases like the Act giving sops to former chief ministers of the state, the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Act, and the NIT Sumari case. In his speech at the event, Chief Justice Ranganathan thanked members of the bar as well as his companion judges for helping him understand Hindi. He also thanked the entire court and his personal staff in helping him in every way without complaining. The outgoing Chief Justice urged the lawyers to also show compassion to the needy in the difficult time of the coronavirus pandemic and offer assistance pro bono. As the Chief Justice demits office, the senior-most judge of the high court, Justice Ravi Malimath will now be the acting chief justice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-hc-chief-justice-ranganathan-retires/articleshow/77205460.cms||Prashant Jha
July 28, 2020||Allahabad||40-min remedial classes in all UP Board schools||Prayagraj: UP Board students who feel they could perform better academically will now have remedial classes every day for help. All UP Board schools in the state will now gave a 40-minute ‘remedial class’ every day to help them clear doubts in a subject. The period would be the first period of the day. The move will help around 1.28 crore students enrolled in over 1.08 lakh primary and around 50,000 upper primary schools in 75 districts of the state. The step is in contrast to the usual practice of conducting separate classes for students who might be performing poorly in their class. The practice has now been dropped as it is considered against the concept of ‘inclusive education’, said state education department officials.  The department conducted aptitude tests for students enrolled in these schools in February 2020. The results showed that a large number of students couldn’t meet the basic educational parameters set for them, depending on their age and standard. The results led to the government’s plan to conduct ‘remedial classes’ every day in UP Board schools. As part of the exercise, around 5.5 lakh assistant teachers, shiksha mitras and part-time subject instructors will be trained online between July 20 and August 14. The training is being supervised by State Project Office of Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan of State Institute of Educational Management and Training (SIEMAT). SIEMAT director Sanjay Sinha said, “When these trained teachers will return to classrooms once the schools reopen, their foremost mission would be to ensure that the students achieve the minimum learning parameters set for them. For this the 40-minute ‘remedial classes’ have been planned as the first period, when the students are fresh and eager to grasp new concepts and clear their doubts.” Sinha said that SIEMAT has trained around 4,000 trainers online between July 6-17. “Now these academic resource persons (ARPs) are giving training in their respective districts to a group of selected teachers who will groom them as Key Resource Persons (KRPs) and form a state resource group (SRG) using the study material developed by SIEMAT,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/40-min-remedial-classes-in-all-up-board-schools/articleshow/77207298.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Nagpur||Covid test must for all Arvi shop owners, staff, docs||Wardha: In probably the first such move in the country to curb increasing coronavirus cases, Arvi sub-divisional officer has made it mandatory for all shop owners, their staffers, medical practitioners and also vegetable sellers/vendors to undergo Covid testing. Only those found negative will be allowed to open their establishments, says an order issued by SDO Harish Dharmik on Sunday. As per the SDO’s order, Covid testing will be mandatory for all professionals, doctors, small shopkeepers, vegetable sellers and other vendors. Those who do not undergo Covid testing will not be allowed to open the shop, clinics or business establishments. Those who violate this order will be punished under relevant laws, warned the order. Though the testing will be free, the diktat has not gone down well with the traders, medical practitioners and politicians who opposed the move and demanded that it be withdrawn. With 55 Covid cases so far, Arvi tehsil accounts for more than 1/3rd of the total coronavirus of from Wardha district (total 149 till Monday) forcing the administration to clamp curfew in Arvi town from July 26 to 30. While traders and doctors’ associations have opposed the move and submitted a memorandum to the SDO urging him to withdraw the order, in meeting held at zilla parishad hall, BJP MLA Dadarao Keche urged collector to direct the SDO to revoke the diktat. In a meeting convened by traders’ association in Arvi, it was decided that no one would open shops/establishments dealing in medicines, essentials and clinics in protest against what they have termed as “dictatorial order”. Anil Lalvani, a shop owner, said, “The order is oppressive. Public is already annoyed by the prolonged lockdown. The curfew is also going to be a headache again. We are protesting to demand withdrawal of the order and allow us to do business, which already is in trouble.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-test-must-for-all-arvi-shop-owners-staff-docs/articleshow/77208388.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: With active Covid-19 cases dropping steadily, Ernakulam shows signs of recovery||KOCHI: For the past five days, Ernakulam, the district which has been among the toppers in the chart of active Covid-19 cases in the state, has been showing signs of recovery. While the number of cases reported from the district during the past five days has dipped to 324 from 386 in the preceding five days, the number of recovery has increased to 499 from 45 in the same period. According to officials with the district health department, the situation in all clusters in the district has improved. “If there are no unexpected turns, the situation in Chellanam could be brought back to normalcy within a few days. Given the density of population and specific characteristics of the area, it was very difficult to contain further spread of the disease there,” an official associated with Covid control activities in the district said. “Though a bit more worse compared to Chellanam, conditions in Aluva cluster are also improving. However, the spread of the disease in the West Kochi area is a concern. Still, we will be able to manage without much spread if people cooperate,” the official added. Now, the effort of authorities is to contain the spread of the disease to neighbouring places of Aluva-Keezhmad cluster. One of the major shortcomings in diagnosing the disease was shortage of testing facilities in the district. Now, authorities have installed one more RT-PCR testing machine at a public health lab in Kochi. As part of the move, permanent testing facilities will be set up in Keezhmadu, Edathala, Choornikkara and Chengamanad grama panchayats and Kalamassery municipality. Meanwhile, during a meeting convened by collector S Suhas on Monday, it has been decided to set up three more testing facilities in Kochi corporation limits. Total number of active patients in the district, which was 948 four days back, has come down to 765 on Monday. At the same time, active cases in Thiruvananthapuram is 2,850. On the basis of active cases, the district was second in the state after Thiruvananthapuram. Now, Ernakulam has slipped to third position. However, the number of deaths in the district, which was seven as on Monday, is the second highest in the state. The number of fresh cases reported from the district on Monday was 15. The average number of fresh cases reported daily from the district in the past 10 days was around 65.Health department will conduct more rapid antigen tests in Chellanam area. The department conducted surveillance tests in Koonammavu, Cowara, Fort Kochi, Choondy and Chellanam areas on Monday. It was also decided to ensure adequate supply of oxygen in all hospitals, including private hospitals and in ambulances in the district . Officials should conduct special inspections to ensure that hospitals have adequate stock of oxygen. At the same time, cases spreading through local contact in the district continue to be a major impediment in containing the pandemic. Of the 15 new cases reported from the district on Monday, 13 are through contact. At present, there are seven active Covid first line treatment centres (CFLTCs) in the district. The number of CFLTCs will be increased in the coming days, an official informed. A total of 142 CFLTCs have already been kept ready in different parts of the district. The combined strength of beds available in these CFLTCs is 7,887. Authorities are planning to make it 10,000 within a few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/with-active-cases-dropping-steadily-ernakulam-shows-signs-of-recovery/articleshow/77207129.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Goa||Goa CM can’t handle Covid, intervene: Opposition to governor||PANAJI: Minutes after being evicted from the state legislative assembly for creating a ruckus and disrupting the House proceedings, a united opposition rushed to the Raj Bhavan to meet governor Satya Pal Malik and urge him not to grant assent to the bills passed in the state legislative assembly. Alleging that chief minister Pramod Sawant was unable to handle the Covid-19 pandemic, the opposition urged Malik to intervene or impose President’s rule. In a letter, which was signed by all the opposition MLAs, leader of the opposition Digambar Kamat also requested Malik to convene a proper assembly session to discuss the Covid pandemic, financial status of the state, economic revival and environmental issues. “We urge you not to give your assent to the business transacted in the Goa Legislative assembly,” Kamat said. “The government did not allow the adjournment motion to come for discussion fearing that irregularities and mismanagement in handling of Covid crises will come to the fore.” The opposition said that the government is shying away from a discussion as it is afraid that Goa’s financial position would be exposed. Goa Forward Party (GFP) president Vijai Sardesai said that the state government has mismanaged its response to the Covid pandemic spending recklessly on one side while collected swab samples remain untested. “It is only Pramod Sawant who has made Goa unsafe and therefore we demand that there should be president’s rule in the state and the governor should take interest,” said Sardesai. All three GFP MLAs, MGP MLA Ramakrishna Dhavalikar and Independent MLA Rohan Khaunte met with the governor. The Congress MLAs were also present. “We met the governor and asked him to intervene or impose presidential rule. It is needed today and we know that if presidential rule is imposed we will no longer remain as MLAs, but for the sake of Goa this is our plea,” said Dhavalikar. Khaunte drew comparison between Sawant and Portugal’s authoritarian ruler António de Oliveira Salazar. “Today’s adjournment motion clearly shows the BJP’s language of dadagiri, the language of Salazar,” said Khaunte. The opposition said that the motion to suspend the rule of the business of the house and by rejecting the adjournment motion, the BJP-led government had murdered democracy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-cant-handle-covid-intervene-oppn-to-governor/articleshow/77209092.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Varanasi||Three boys drowned in pond in Azamgarh||Varanasi: Three minor boys were drowned in a pond at Hariharpur village under the limits of Kandhrapur police station in Azamgarh district on Monday. The villagers fished out their bodies after which Kandhrapur cops sent them for postmortem examination. According to Hariharpur natives, Lalit Yadav (14) of Bhorra village who dwelt in Gujarat with his parents, had come to the place of his maternal grandfather Faujdar Yadav for past few days. On Monday morning, Lalit along with his relatives including Himanshu Yadav (12) and Harsh Yadav (11) reached a pond of the village for bathing. While bathing, they entered deep water. When one of the boys started drowning, the others made efforts to save him. Bu, in this bid they all drowned. On seeing them in trouble, a boy sitting near the pond raised alarm after which villagers swung into action. They took out the boys from water and rushed them to a local hospital, where doctors declared them brought dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/three-boys-drowned-in-pond-in-azamgarh/articleshow/77207190.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Jaipur||Tiger Day: Majesty of big cats to be displayed online||JAIPUR: The big cats’ majesty will displayed online as Covid-19 pandemic shadows the occasion of Global Tiger Day. Also known as International Tiger Day, it is observed each year on July 29 to raise awareness towards conservation of tigers since being conceptualised at the 2010 St Petersberg Tiger Summit. A digital exhibition jointly organised by the state forest department and Jaipur Tiger Festival will mark the celebration in Rajasthan this year as the routine events are being avoided in consideration of social distancing. The exhibition will display selected photographs captured by renowned Indian and foreign photographers. Showcasing the various behavioral and even unseen aspects of the tiger, these photographs will take the viewers a little closer to the otherwise intimidating animal. The purpose of the day and the exhibition lies in helping the people to love the tiger and also the authority it commands on the wilderness. “The tiger is a crucial link in the cycle of forest, environment, and mankind. Without tiger, the forest will perish and so will the environment and so would humans, this need to be understood not just by the government, but also by the people at large,” said Rajasthan Wildlife Board member, Dhirendra Godha. India has been home to tigers and has also declared it as its national animal. Despite this fact, tiger remains under threat. Not just the poachers, but even encroachers on forest land have been threatening the existence of tigers. Occasions like the Global Tiger Day remind people of more collective efforts for conservation of the animal. However, this year the celebrations are showing the impact of Covid-19 pandemic that has threatened the human population across the world and forced millions to self-confinement. Owing to the contemporary scenario, the wildlife event, too, has been limited to virtual venue. “This year, we are extensively using social media platforms such as Facebook, Instagram and our institutional website to connect with people for the event,” said Anand Agarwal, president of the Jaipur Tiger Festival. According to the event organisers, over 200 photographers have submitted photos for the exhibition of which selected ones will be displayed during the event. A well-qualified jury has been nominated for selection of the photos and three prizes of Rs 21,000, Rs 31,000 and Rs 51,000 will be awarded to the top three photographs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/majesty-of-big-cats-will-come-online/articleshow/77208390.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19: 4 elderly among 5 die, dist toll reaches 65||TNNLudhiana: Five district residents, including four elderly persons, died of Covid-19 on Monday, when 121 persons from Ludhiana and 15 from outside tested positive. The positive cases include eight jail inmates and police personnel. Health department officials said a 60-year-old man of Halwara, who also had TB, died at a private hospital here. A 50-year-old man from Tajpur Road, suffering from septic shock and pneumonia, also died at a city hospital. Three persons died at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, and they included a 74-year-old Bal Singh Nagar man, who was suffering from high blood pressure, a 65-year-old diabetic man of Chander Nagar, and a woman of 80 years from Karnail Singh Nagar, who was diabetic and had blood pressure problem. The health department officials said with this, the number of deaths of district residents has risen to 65 whereas that of outsiders stood at 37.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga said of the pending reports, 73 samples were reported positive, of which 66 belonged to Ludhiana district, two to Jalandhar district, one each to Hoshiarpur, Mohali, Sangrur and Uttar Pradesh. The health department said of the positive cases in the district, six were from Passi Nagar, four each from Rajiv Gandhi Colony, Khanna, three each from Police Lines, Samrala, Ramgarh, two each from Kundanpuri, Central Jail, Jamalpur, one each from Pritam Nagar, Satjot Nagar, Atam Nagar, Govind Nagar, Citizen Enclave, Industrial Area, Jawadi Kalan, Janakpuri, Jalandhar Bypass, Milarganj, Habib Road, Friends Colony, Borstal Jail, Barewal, Haibowal, Basant City, Lalton Kalan, Pakhowal Road, ESI Hospital, Sarwan Vihar, Doraha, Salem Tabri, Chet Singh Nagar, Shahpur Road, SBS Nagar, Giaspura, Pakhowal, Jamalpur, Bahadur Ke Road, Daba, Maple Hotel, Abuwal, Fountain Chowk, Dashmesh Nagar, Sabzi Mandi, BRS Nagar and Haibowal.It added that apart from these, 63 positive cases were reported from private hospitals and laboratories, of which 55 belonged to Ludhiana district, two were from Sangrur, one each from Barnala, Patiala, Ropar, Kapurthala, Kolkata and Jammu and Kashmir.The civil surgeon said of the positive cases from the district, four each were from Chandra Nagar, Focal Point, three each from Model Gram, BRS Nagar, Rajguru Nagar, two each from Bhamia Khurd, Jagraon, Daresi Road, Dugri, Basant Avenue, New Janta Nagar, Basti Jodhewal, Pakhowal Road, one each from Doraha, Rishi Nagar, Kot Mangal Singh, EWS Colony, Subhash Nagar, Pindi Gali, Hussainpura, Jamalpur, New Shimalpuri, Haibowal Kalan, Baba Deep Singh Nagar, Basant Vihar, Model Town Extension, Partap Nagar, Mahavir Nagar, Milarganj, Daba Road, Hazuri Road, New Vishnupuri, Shaheed Karnail Singh Nagar, Bahadur Ke Road and Haibowal Khurd. The Ludhiana case count stands at 2,687 and of outsiders at 395, said health department officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-19-4-elderly-among-5-die-dist-toll-reaches-65/articleshow/77205535.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Curbs in ten corporation divisions affect food distributors||KOCHI: With 10 out of 28 divisions in West Kochi declared as containment zones, main distributors of essential food items, who have their warehouses located within these zones, have been unable to supply goods to dealers and shops creating a crisis. “Police have barricaded the roads and are not allowing delivery vans which supply essential food items to move. Shops and dealers are flooding us with calls because we couldn’t meet orders,” said Junaid Sulaiman, an entrepreneur and distributor of Amul products. According to him, around 400 shops in the West Kochi region including groceries, super markets, bakeries and C Class shops have been affected. “Mattancherry is like a huge slum because of its population density. Normally, a division in Kochi may have 50,000 people but here the number would be one lakh,” said Junaid, adding that any shortage of food availability could create a negative impact for Covid-19 management. Some shopowners directly collected food material from distributors on Monday. “All the major distributors are inside containment zones at Mattancherry, which is one of the oldest bazaars in India. I deal in food articles like coconut oil and various brands of flours. The saddest thing is that some of these products have expiry dates and would become wasted if they are not delivered on time,” said Hashim of Trade Centre, a distribution agency which has been in business since 1967. Hashim said no one else can supply as every distributor has a zone. “I am in division 12 but I cannot move because all division roads around me have been barricaded. I had to cancel several bills. On Saturday I had orders for 40 shops at Panayappilly but I could not deliver,” says Shihab of SR Traders who is a distributor for biscuits. Junaid said distributors have set apart specific days for distribution for each product. “On Monday I supply to Fort Kochi region and on Tuesday it would be Palluruthi. On the specific day salesmen would cover one product. We can cover only one route on a week day. If we are not allowed to cover a route on a particular day, we would not be able to do this later as we have to meet other commitments,” says Sulaiman. Distributors say even if a supplier from the city wants to deliver they would not be able to do it. “We don’t want to do this violating Covid-19 guidelines. We are ready to abide by all norms set by the administration but they should allow us to function,” said Hashim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/curbs-in-10-corp-divisions-affect-food-distributors/articleshow/77207187.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Jaipur||Governor scraps RU VC search panel||JAIPUR: Governor Kalraj Mishra on Monday scrapped the search committee formed to choose the next vice chancellor of Rajasthan University (RU). The post has been lying vacant since July 11 following the retirement of R.K.Kothari. The reason to scrap the panel has not been specified by the governor house. A press statement issued by raj bhavan stated that the decision was taken on the advice of the state government. Source said due to the ongoing political tussle in the state, the government decided to take up the matter later to avoid appointment of any unwanted person at the most prestigious university of the state. The panel was created to give suggestions on the next VC to the governor house. In the last couple of months, many allegations were levelled against the functioning of the panel. A letter was sent to governor Kalraj Mishra by CS Meena, a former joint secretary in UGC and an eligible candidate for the post, stating that Prof PC Trivedi, a member of the panel, was directly connected to the university. According to the Rajasthan University Act and UGC regulations, any person in the sphere of higher education not connected with the university shall only be eligible to be appointed. Trivedi was the head of botany department till 2006. Another letter was sent to the university registrar by a member of the committee and UGC nominee GD Sharma raising objections that he was given a short notice before the meeting held on July 7 deliberately to keep him out of the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/governor-scraps-ru-vc-search-panel/articleshow/77208391.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Delhi||Chandni Chowk: Old Delhi in new cover||NEW DELHI: This is not the chaotic Chandni Chowk that you are familiar with. There are no handcarts, e-rickshaws, commercial vehicles and private cars jostling for space with people. The pedestrianisation of the stretch from the Red Fort intersection to Fatehpuri Masjid has transformed the area into an oasis of calm, and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has announced that the project will be ready for public use by November. Already a 300-metre section is almost ready and informally opened for use. The shoppers, few as they are in the times of the novel coronavirus, now walk around freely and admire decongestion that once seemed almost impossible to achieve. With a number of innovative approaches to pedestrianisation, Chandni Chowk can look forward to attracting traffic-weary people who should find the leisurely walk down the greenery-flanked length a body-mind exercise. Customers who always had a tough time crossing the road to get to the shops deep in the market will now have an easier experience. “The roads were always packed, people running into each other, noise and car horns and petty thefts a constant risk,” said businesswoman Vishakha Sood on Monday. “When I returned to Chandni Chowk after four months today, I was pleasantly shocked to see how it has changed.” Sood, like many others, is amazed with the work been done by the Public Works Department. “It has taken some time to complete, but the wait is worth it,” said housewife Latika Bhardwaj. “Chandni Chowk looks beautiful, unlike what it was six months ago. There is no chaos and I am sure every customer will be just as surprised as I am when they come here.” Inspired by the traffic system used in Tokyo, one of the most congested urban areas in the world, Chandni Chowk will have traffic lights diagonal zebra lines, which — unlike the system used at present to allow road crossing by people in sync with vehicles being stopped or allowed on either arm of the intersection — will turn red for 30 seconds at regular intervals. In this time, the pedestrians can cross over in any direction. Besides the beautification and traffic decongestion, Chandni Chowk has also installed amenities for the shoppers visiting the market. Such amenities include public toilets, benches at regular intervals, loading/unloading bays for vans ferrying stocks to the shops, CCTV monitoring and a number of Delhi Police and traffic booths for security. There has also been an upgradation of the street lighting. For those who are wondering where the cars will go now that Chandni Chowk is pedestrianised, PWD will create parking lots in the vicinity, allowing visitors to leave their cars there and walk to the market. PWD has carefully selected tiles and street furniture to be used during the redevelopment to recall Mughal motifs, the esplanade being a favourite of Delhi’s citizenry at the time the Mughal emperors held court in Red Fort. The paving has been done using flamed granite for the main pedestrian area, tactile tiles for the median, tree grates, saucer drains and cobblestones. “Our work will now pick up pace,” said, Kunwar Singh, who has a shop on the esplanade. “Chandni Chowk is one important place that has always remained chaotic and crowded. The prices at which buyers get products here plus the wide range and quality we offer here are unmatched. This also, therefore, attracts a lot of foreigners and wedding shoppers.” Singh recalled customers talking of looking for alternatives outside Chandni Chowk to avoid the mess there. “But now I am sure they won’t want to take their custom elsewhere,” Singh said. “Apart from everything else, this place also has a historic value and is right opposite Red Fort, which doubles the importance of the redevelopment here. With time I am sure the other parts of this commercial area will also be redesigned.” Watch Revamped Chandni Chowk: Old city opens to public in new cover in November||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/chandni-chowk-old-city-in-new-cover/articleshow/77208407.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
July 28, 2020||Bhubaneswar||SOP issued for police stns to deal with visitors||Bhubaneswar: Director general of police Abhay has issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) for police stations while dealing with visitors during the Covid-19 pandemic. Police stations have been asked to keep visitors away from the main buildings and shift the reception desks to some isolated structures on the same campus. The SOP has been issued after a number of police personnel got infected by the novel coronavirus in different districts, mostly in Ganjam and Berhampur. Several police stations are being shut temporarily for sanitisation. “Police stations and outposts are fundamental to the functioning of district police and commissionerate police. Citizens visit the police stations for normal and emergency cases. Adequate precautions should be taken in view of the virus outbreak,” said Abhay’s circular, issued a few days ago. According to the SOP, complainants may be allowed to visit the reception desk area, which should be shifted from the main police station building to an isolated place on the campus. In case the police station does not have any other structures away from the main building, they should erect a makeshift tent at a distance from the main building and convert it into a temporary reception desk, the SOP said. A transparent glass or plastic screen should be erected between visitors and reception personnel. A two-way intercom or some other alternative communication system should be provided to the reception desk from the main police station building. The reception area should be properly and regularly disinfected. Hand sanitisers should be provided to visitors, who must wear masks, the SOP said. Those manning the reception centres have been asked to thoroughly clean and sanitise themselves immediately after end of their shifts. In his standard protocol, the DGP Abhay laid stress on the maximum use of telephone-based grievance redressal system during the pandemic. District police offices or the SP offices and police range offices have been asked to popularise their telephone numbers among complainants and discourage visitors to visit their offices to avoid possible infection by the virus. Complaint boxes have been installed outside SP offices, police range offices and police stations to receive complaints from people. SPs have also been asked to redress the grievances of people on social media platforms like WhatsApp, Facebook and Twitter. “We have increased the capacity of our dial 100 system and have been attending thousands of calls each day. The feedback we get is quite positive. The dial 100 system keeps us informed when there are problems for us to intervene,” commissioner of police Sudhanshu Sarangi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/sop-issued-for-police-stns-to-deal-with-visitors/articleshow/77205527.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
July 28, 2020||Vadodara||43 more Vadodara jail inmates test positive||Vadodara: The Covid-19 situation in Vadodara Central Jail worsened on Monday with 43 more inamtes testing positive, taking the total number of those infected to 61. On Saturday night, 18 inmates had tested positive, following which their 138 contacts were traced and quarantined. Of these, 43 tested positive. Jail officials said that these inmates are asymptomatic and their samples were collected on Sunday as they shared barracks with the 18 infected. The administration has now decided to start a health centre within the jail premises. The 80-bed hospital will be ready by this weekend. Last month too, two inmates had tested positive. One of the inmates, who was admitted to a hospital in Ahmedabad for surgery, had tested positive and another inmate who was in contact with him had contracted the virus. Officer on special duty for Covid-19, Vinod Rao, visited the jail with other officials to take stock of the situation. Rao said that the jail also had a staff of six doctors including a surgeon and a physician attached full-time to the hospital. SSG Hospital which is presently being used as the facility for serious ailments as well as Covid-19 among prisoners will handhold the facility at the jail. Rao and others also visited the SSG Hospital to check the progress on work there for upgrading it to a facility to treat 500 Covid-19 patients. Jail officials said that they had been taking precautions even before the first case was registered in Vadodara. Initially, a cap on the number of visitors was placed and the time of meeting was also reduced. Later, as cases started increasing, every new prisoner is now being kept in isolation for two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/43-more-vadodara-jail-inmates-test-positive/articleshow/77205621.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Gambling racket busted, 13 arrested||Times News Network Ludhiana: The police busted a gambling racket in Chawni Mohalla on Sunday night, with the arrest of 13 accused.Rs 1.48 lakh were recovered from the possession of those arrested, including Akshay Kumar, Joginder Kumar, Lakhan, Rohit of Chawni Mohalla, Rohit Kumar of Sham Nagar, Anil Kumar of Preet Nagar, Ashok Kumar of Dharamkotia Colony, Darshan Kumar of Salem Tabri, Sanjeev Kumar of Jain Colony, Vinod Kumar of Rishi Nagar, Mani Kumar of Qilla Mohalla, Raman Kumar and Joginder Pal of Ghumar Mandi. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Harbans Lal said, “All 13 had gathered for gambling in Chawni Mohalla. They are friends and would often get together to gamble at different places. We are checking their previous record.” As their assembly violated the Covid-19 rules, too, a case has been registered under sections 188 (disobedience to orders duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (whoever unlawfully or negligently does any act which is likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to live), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of diseased dangerous to life) of the IPC, the Epidemic Disease Act and the Gambling Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/gambling-racket-busted-13-arrested/articleshow/77205549.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Good tidings in grim times: Dist’s cured % reaches 70||Ludhiana: Even as there is a spurt in Covid-19 cases in the city, for the first time the cured patient rate has reached 70% and the doubling rate in the district has also decreased as compared with the previous fortnight. As per the state media bulletin of Sunday, the cured percentage for the district was 70%, which a fortnight ago was 65%. Ludhiana has a higher cured percentage than 12 districts of the state, while a fortnight ago, it was higher as compared with only three districts. The cured percentage of the district was 3% higher than that of the state and a fortnight ago it was 4% less. However, the district witnessed the highest number of deaths (13) in the past seven days, followed by Jalandhar, Patiala and Gurdaspur. Ludhiana district deaths constituted 25% of the state toll in the past seven days. The bulletin suggested that the district was at number one spot as far as the number of cases (572) in the past seven days was concerned, followed by Patiala. Ludhiana district was at number two position with 660 active cases and Jalandhar topped with 775. A fortnight ago too, Ludhiana was at number two position with 458 active cases and Jalandhar at number one with 522. The doubling rate, which is the number of days it would take for the cases to double based on the last seven days' growth rate, has decreased for the district. As per the July 12 bulletin, it was 20 and the July 26 bulletin revealed it has decreased to 18. Besides, the case fatality rate (CFR) for the district continued to be at 2%, same as that of the state.Improvement in cured percentage rate notwithstanding, there was an increase in deaths and new cases, so the health department officials said they would be conducting more tests and speed up contact tracing. “We have started sampling at three more community health centres (CHCs) and this will help in early detection, tracing and management of patients,” said civil surgeon Dr Ramesh Bagga.Residents want authorities to act tough on rules violators. “We feel that authorities should act strictly with those not wearing masks and violating social distancing norms. In posh areas like Model Town, Sarabha Nagar, Civil Lines, Ferozepur Road, Dugri, Pakhowal Road, among others, many are seen violating norms, but there is no action,” said Harpreet Singh, a city resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/good-tidings-in-grim-times-dists-cured-reaches-70/articleshow/77205540.cms||Shariq Majeed
July 28, 2020||Bareilly||Forest team cordons off cane field to push tiger back to PTR||Pilibhit: Timely action by forest department prevented a man-tiger confrontation from turning ugly on Monday in Pilibhit's Tah village, 2.5 km from the core forest area of Mala range in Pilibhit Tiger Reserve. The villagers, armed with rifles, gheraoed a cane field where an adult tiger which had strayed out of the forest was hiding. The field is just 250 metres from the village. Sanjeev Kumar, divisional forest officer of forest and wildlife division, rushed to the spot along with the field forest force. They cordoned off the field with nets on three sides. One side was left open to allow the tiger to retreat into the forest.Kumar said forest teams would remain at the spot to monitor the tiger's, movement to prevent it from attacking villagers and protecting the big cat from being killed. Camera traps would be installed in the field on Tuesday if the tiger did not return to the forest, added Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/forest-team-cordons-off-cane-field-to-push-tiger-back-to-ptr/articleshow/77204474.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Kochi||KMRL backs out of Padmasarovaram project||Kochi: In a major development, Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL) has backed out of the Padmasarovaram project of Kochi corporation. Moreover, the Metro agency has sought the corporation’s permission for dismantling a bund constructed across backwaters in Chilavannoor for facilitating the work on a viaduct proposed to be constructed as part of the project. In a letter sent to corporation authorities, KMRL officials said that the contractor who had been entrusted with the work had requested the agency to terminate the contract. In the wake of stop memo issued by district collector, the work was stopped on March 11, 2019. Moreover, Kerala Coastal Zone Management Authority (KCZMA) declined to give approval for the project on December 13, 2019. “In these circumstances, it is for your kind information that KMRL has decided to terminate the contract and withdraw from the project. You are also requested to grant the permission for dismantling the temporary bund and releasing the payment to the contractor for the work done so far,” the letter sent by the KMRL states. At the same time, corporation had not responded to the letter given by the KMRL even after a month. “A case is pending before high court regarding the project. So, we are unable to give permission for the KMRL to dismantle the bund now,” a corporation official said. The contractor deployed by KMRL had started the work on Padmasarovaram project, a cycle track and walkway constructed on a viaduct across the backwaters, in December 2018. Before starting the work KMRL asked the local body authorities to procure all the permissions required. But, the corporation didn’t secure the required permissions. Meanwhile, a probe by vigilance into the alleged irregularities in the work of the project is progressing. “It is learnt that the vigilance officers have questioned the officials with the corporation and KMRL. The project is to help the big sharks who constructed buildings on the shores of the backwaters in Chilavannoor flouting CRZ norms,” said K T Cheshire, RTI activist who lodged complaint with the vigilance and anti-corruption bureau.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kmrl-backs-out-of-padmasarovaram-project/articleshow/77207193.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Jaipur||Driver who mowed down forest guard, identified||Jaipur: Alwar police are yet to arrest the accused who killed a forest home guard inside Sariska Tiger Reserve on Sunday after he along with his colleague attempted to stop suspected members of the mining mafia from smuggling bajri. Cops have, however, identified the tractor driver who mowed doen the guard with his tractor. “We have identified the driver and once he is arrested, we will confirm if there were others along with him. Forest officials and police are working together in the matter,” said an officer of Alwar police. On Sunday, Keval Singh along with his colleague went for patrolling in Baldevgarh checkpost area of the tiger reserve where they saw some people illegally transporting bajri from the area. When they tried to stop them, the persons mowed down the guard with a tractor. In 2015, the National Green Tribunal directed that no person or company will be allowed to carry out stone quarrying or mining of any sort without requisite environmental clearance near Sariska Tiger reserve, though attacks on officials make it evident that mining continues in the reserve. On January 25, a forest ranger of STR Jitendra Chaudhary had to run for his life after being attacked by the villagers. The villagers attacked him after he and his 10-member team confiscated 18 sheep and 30 goats for illegal grazing in the tiger reserve. On December 15, 2019, senior forest officials were allegedly manhandled by villagers in the tiger reserve. Following this, a case was lodged against 20 accused in Bansur police station. STR is spread across 1,281 sq-km area and is divided into six ranges. Ther are just 108 forest guards, which is far less than its sanctioned strength of 132. Moreover, with the menace of frequent attacks in Sariska, unarmed forest guards often struggle to lay a strong cordon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/driver-who-mowed-down-forest-guard-identified/articleshow/77208394.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Jaipur||NWR gets its first electric train in Rajasthan||Jaipur: Rajasthan zone of the North Western Railway (NWR) got its first electric train when the Jan Shatabdi Express powered by a WAG-5 electric locomotive chugged off from Delhi Sarai Rohilla station to Ajmer on Monday. The train, which started at 4.15pm, will cover Neem Ka Thana (Sikar), Ringas and Phulera before reaching Ajmer. The electric-powered locomotove will reduce travel time between Delhi and Ajmer by at least 20 minutes. The train, which is scheduled to reach Ajmer at 11.35pm, will not touch Jaipur.From Ajmer, the train will start its maiden journey at 5.40am on Tuesday and will reach Delhi at 11.35 am. “Some portions of NWR is in Haryana so we were already an electric engine on that route. But NWR’s Rajasthan zone has seen the electric train for the first time. In future, more trains will join as the situation limps back to normal,” said a senior officer of NWR. “We already have two routes from Delhi and Ajmer. One route is via Jaipur and one without it. This train will skip Jaipur,” said an officer. The train will also facilitate passengers from Delhi to Rajasthan especially those staying in Shekhawati region. “With the introduction of this train, a new era will start to increase operational efficiency. With upgradation of tracks, we can expect improvement in the average speed with better acceleration and mobility. Electrification will finally reduce green house gas emission and dependence on imported petroleum based fuels,” a senior railway official said.He added that when all trains on NWR routes run on electric traction, it will lead to an approximate saving of Rs 1,100 crore per annum. Meanwhile, work on Jaipur-Delhi and Jaipur-Sawai Madhopur is also going on a fast pace and passengers can expect running of trains on these routes in the next couple of months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nwr-gets-its-first-electric-train-in-rajasthan/articleshow/77208398.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Jaipur||Lantana shrub poses threat to Sajjangarh sanctuary||UDAIPUR: The Sajjangarh Wildlife Sanctuary is facing a threat from the nasty Lantana bush, an invasive toxic species which is spreading rapidly here. The weed has spread over an area of around 200 hectares in the sanctuary which sprawls in an area of 519.61 hectares. To arrest its growth, which is feared to be very fast after receiving favourable conditions like rains, the forest department has embarked on a drive to remove the bushes before formation and shedding of seeds. “Lantana obstructs the pathway of wild animals and doesn’t allow grass species to grow which in turn affects the availability of food for the wild animals. It doesn’t allow the local native species to grow,” deputy conservator of forest Ajit Uchhoi told TOI. The foliage and ripe berries of the lantana plant contain toxic substances which affect cattle, sheep, horses, dogs, guinea pigs and rabbits. Lantana spreads so fast and does not allow anything else to grow including grass and other plant or shrub which results in fodder scarcity and migration or decline of herbivores. This can lead to starvation of leopards and other carnivores at the top of the food chain. On Saturday, under the supervision of chief conservator of forest, R K Singh and Udaipur range IG, police Binita Thakur, forest and police officials held a shramdaan program. In this they cleared a vast area covered by the toxic flowery shrub. The program will continue till the first fortnight of August. They are appealing to the public too to come forward as volunteers and help the team in clearing the bushes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lantana-shrub-poses-threat-to-sajjangarh-sanctuary/articleshow/77208396.cms||Geetha Sunil Pillai
July 28, 2020||Udaipur||Lantana shrub poses threat to Sajjangarh sanctuary||UDAIPUR: The Sajjangarh Wildlife Sanctuary is facing a threat from the nasty Lantana bush, an invasive toxic species which is spreading rapidly here. The weed has spread over an area of around 200 hectares in the sanctuary which sprawls in an area of 519.61 hectares. To arrest its growth, which is feared to be very fast after receiving favourable conditions like rains, the forest department has embarked on a drive to remove the bushes before formation and shedding of seeds. “Lantana obstructs the pathway of wild animals and doesn’t allow grass species to grow which in turn affects the availability of food for the wild animals. It doesn’t allow the local native species to grow,” deputy conservator of forest Ajit Uchhoi told TOI. The foliage and ripe berries of the lantana plant contain toxic substances which affect cattle, sheep, horses, dogs, guinea pigs and rabbits. Lantana spreads so fast and does not allow anything else to grow including grass and other plant or shrub which results in fodder scarcity and migration or decline of herbivores. This can lead to starvation of leopards and other carnivores at the top of the food chain. On Saturday, under the supervision of chief conservator of forest, R K Singh and Udaipur range IG, police Binita Thakur, forest and police officials held a shramdaan program. In this they cleared a vast area covered by the toxic flowery shrub. The program will continue till the first fortnight of August. They are appealing to the public too to come forward as volunteers and help the team in clearing the bushes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/lantana-shrub-poses-threat-to-sajjangarh-sanctuary/articleshow/77218193.cms||Geetha Sunil Pillai
July 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Lockdown leaves young national powerlifter at crossroads||Ludhiana: The struggle to earn a livelihood amidst the crisis triggered by Covid-19 pandemic is about to claim the career of another promising sportsperson, this time a national powerlifter Palak Aggarwal. Following the closure of her dream sports academy for local players in Samrala village, the five-time winner of state championship is now looking to take up some vocation that is paying enough to support her family.Coming from a humble background, Palak, 21, had been struggling to continue her sports activities ever since the lockdown was imposed, as she has failed to earn a single penny from the academy over the last four-five months. She also aspires to become an international powerlifter, but that looks a distant dream now.Palak hit the limelight after she got selected for the world powerlifting championship in January this year after winning a Gold in North India Powerlifting Championship.From performing at various national powerlifting championships to sitting idle at home, Palak’s sporting career has seen a huge downfall. Owing to the poor financial condition of the family, they are struggling to meet even the basic needs. The winner of maximum number of back-to-back gold medals at the national championships has now reached out to the government reminding the powers that be to fulfil her long-pending demand of a government job under the sports quota.Palak, who is on the brink of losing all her hopes, told TOI, “My father is a small-time salesman, who cannot bear the expenses of my sports training under these challenging times and whatever he earns goes towards buying essential commodities and paying the electricity bills.“Although I wanted to continue my sports activities to make the country proud on foreign soil, for the past five months, I am sitting idle at home as during the lockdown, the government ordered closure of all such institutions. Now I am looking for some job in the field of yoga to earn something and extend a helping hand to the family.”She said whatever little savings they had went towards paying loans for international sports tournaments, which they had taken a few months back when things were not all that bad.“I had not imagined even in my dreams that one day I would have to face such difficulties in earning the livelihood, as I had won seven to eight national championships in the past few years and made my state proud. But, due to a lackadaisical attitude of the government towards the welfare of sports persons, I am losing hopes of reviving my sporting career,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/lockdown-leaves-young-national-powerlifter-at-crossroads/articleshow/77205570.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
July 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Despite unlock, bad hair days not over for city salons||Ludhiana: Even as they were allowed to re-open a month ago, city’s salon owners and barbers are still witnessing a slump in business as customers are refraining from visiting them. The Sunday lockdown and residents opting for haircuts at home have hung salon owners by a hair as all of them do not have resources to cater to the rising home service demand, for which they are not even getting paid adequately. On the other hand, many residents have got used to getting haircuts by family members. Monu, who has a salon in Model Town, says, “Though it’s been long since we were allowed to open our shop, business has not picked up. Footfall is low due to the fear of coronavirus and with the cases surging in the past 10 days, the turnout has fallen further. Moreover, Sunday ban has hit us badly as most of the customers visited as at weekend. Nowadays, residents are preferring home service, but not all salons have enough manpower. Moreover, giving a haircut at home is time consuming and customers complain about the quality of the work as we cannot use all the equipment there.”Raju Sharma, a hairstylist from Dugri, says, “Customers feel if they get a haircut at the salon they will contract coronavirus. We have made adequate safety arrangements, but people want services at home and that too at the rate charged at the salon. This is not possible as huge costs are involved in giving home service, which includes conveyance fuel. Besides, time taken for every haircut at home is way more than at the salon.”Parveen Narang of Ashok Nagar said, “Ever since the lockdown began in March, I have been cutting my son’s hair at home. We will continue to do this till the situation improves. Home is safe as compared to the salons as cases are rising. Besides, it also saves a lot of money.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/despite-unlock-bad-hair-days-not-over-for-city-salons/articleshow/77205555.cms||Mohit Behl
July 28, 2020||Kanpur||10 police station areas nowcontainment zones till July 31||Kanpur: Following a spike in the number of corona cases and deaths, the district administration has decided to convert 10 police station areas in the city into containment zones from 10 pm on Monday till July 31. Last week, the district administration had declared areas under ten police stations as containment zones, but late Sunday evening, it decided to exclude Kidwai Nagar and Nawabganj police stations and add Gwaltoli and Pheel Khana police circles in the list. The ten police stations are Chakeri, Kalyanpur, Naubasta, Barra, Govind Nagar, Kakadeo, City Kotwali , Swarup Nagar , Gwaltoli and Pheel Khana. In 10 police circles, all shops except grocery, milk, bread, vegetables, medicines and essential commodities will remain closed. Shopping malls, show rooms, fast food corners, weekly and grain markets will also remain closed till July 31. Banks and ATMs will remain open while mobile cash vans will operate. The administration also made it clear that no private vehicle would be allowed to move on roads in ten police station areas where the lockdown is in force. Except government offices, all private institutions would remain closed till July 31. The district administration in a late evening meeting decided to impose total lockdown only in the affected areas. Since there were less number of patients and deaths in Kidwai Nagar and Nawabganj areas they have been excluded from the list . The administration has made arrangements for home delivery of essential items and vegetable and milk vendors have been allowed to move in lanes . District magistrate Brahmadeo Ram Tiwari, chief medical officer Dr Anil Kumar Mishra and other district officials were present in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/10-police-station-areas-nowcontainment-zones-till-july-31/articleshow/77208440.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Kanpur||PGV assures help to Sanjeet’s family||Kanpur:Congress party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday interacted with family members Sanjeet on phone. Talking to reporters Ruchi, sister of Sanjeet, said Priyanka Gandhi assured her family of all possible help from the Congress party. “Priyanka ji said that she is committed to providing every help to us,” Ruchi told reporters. Ruchi added, “She (Priyanka Gandhi) also said don’t hesitate to contact me whenever you are in the need. She said that she will personally be in contact with us.” To recall, Priyanka Gandhi had attacked the Yogi Adityanath government over the case. “In Uttar Pradesh, law and order has crumbled... people are losing lives. Whether it’s home, office, nobody feels safe anymore. After Vikram Joshi, now Sanjeet Yadav’s murder in Kanpur,” she had tweeted in Hindi, referring to journalist Vikram Joshi’s death in Ghaziabad on Wednesday last. “According to the reports, police got kidnappers the ransom and then he was murdered. This is a new age of “rule of goons”. In this age, law and order has surrendered in front of goons,” she had written in another post. A 28-year-old lab technician Sanjeet was kidnapped in Barra area on June 22, had been murdered by his abductors. According to the police, the kidnappers killed the youth last month, on June 26-27, a few days after abducting him, and dumped his body in the Pandu River.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/pgv-assures-help-to-sanjeets-family/articleshow/77208463.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Jaipur||BJP to file fresh petition challenging BSP merger with Cong||JAIPUR: BJP has decided to file a fresh petition in the Rajasthan High Court challenging the merger of six BSP MLAs with Congress on Monday. The move came hours after the Rajasthan High Court dismissed the petition challenging the disqualification of six MLAs who contested on the BSP ticket. The petition was moved by BJP MLA Madan Dilawar from Ramganjmandi on July 26 in an apparent bid to corner the ruling Congress government in the number game. The state government is facing strong opposition from its 19 Congress MLAs led by Sachin Pilot camp. Reacting on the development, Satish Poonia, state president of BJP said, “Prima facie it appears that we have strong scope for filing a fresh petition in the court with more facts. Our team of legal experts is analysing the merger and several similar cases in the past have shown positive results. Our plain argument is that BSP is a national party which never merged with the Congress. It was the BSP MLAs who merged with the ruling party,” said Poonia. He added that they will file a petition in a day or two. Dilawar had moved an application before the speaker in March this year seeking disqualification of the six BSP MLAs who had merged with the Congress on September 16, 2019. He moved another petition before the speaker on July 18 which was dismissed last week. The reasons for the same were neither made public nor given to the complainant. Replying to a question on speaker dismissing the application as politically motivated, Poonia did not attack speaker CP Joshi directly but questioned his inability to call or inform the complainant. “He has special privileges and has full right to act on petitions independently. It is a very common thing that once a petition is decided, the complainant has to be either called or given a copy of the order. In petitioner Madan Dilawar’s case he had to struggle to get the copy, this raises some questions,” said Poonia. Cong adamant on spl session: BJPBJP on Monday accused the ruling Congress as being adamant on holding a special assembly session to settle scores with their dissidents’ group led by Sachin Pilot camp. “The cabinet note seeking permission for assembly sessions says that they will discuss the Covid-19 situation in the state. But, it is clear they will look for an opportunity to disqualify their rebels. They are least interested in holding any special session,” said Poonia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-to-file-fresh-petition-challenging-bsp-merger-with-cong/articleshow/77208404.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Delhi||Another mock test, same result: Delhi University students in a fix||NEW DELHI: The experience of another mock test ahead of Delhi University’s (DU) online open book examinations (OBE) was almost a repeat of the first session on July 5. From login to uploading answer sheets, students faced difficulties at almost every step. DU uploaded a general question paper asking students to write about the impact of Covid-19 on their life, prompting students to question the point of having the mock test. Other questions included writing a note on a topic of a student’s choice from the syllabus and application of his subject for the society, especially in India. TimesViewMock tests are only effective when they mimic the real thing. Students get the sense of participating in a test without actually partaking in it. If DU officials are unable to create a suitable dummy run for such tests, they end up wasting not only their own time and resources, but the students’ time too, making the whole exercise meaningless. Hopefully, the DU authorities will get their act together next time.After being postponed twice, the examinations for final-year students is scheduled to be held in August. Delhi high court, which is hearing a related case, has asked DU to submit the number of students who had taken the mock test on Tuesday. “I logged in after facing many problems and a long wait. Despite the general questions, I took it. When I tried to upload it, errors cropped up again despite following all steps,” said Harshita Singhal, a final-year law student. When she informed DU’s examination branch, “they asked me to refresh the page and said the exam time was over. They even told me to write to them about my concern then,” Singhal added. Sumit Anand, BCom (Hons) student at Ramjas College, had a worse time. “The website crashed the moment I filled in my details. When it finally got resolved after spending some time in refreshing the website, I couldn’t upload my documents. This was despite using a 40Mbps WiFi network,” said Anand. According to students, there’s no point in taking a general question paper, when the actual examination will be subject-specific. “This is a DU mockery again. From the question paper, it looks like we are Class IV or V student,” Dinesh Chander, another student, complained. “Mock papers are supposed to contain subject questions to help us assess ourselves and get an idea of time management.” Last time, too, not all subject-specific papers were uploaded. The first phase of the mock test will go on till July 29, and the second phase will be conducted between August 1 and 4. Many students skipped Monday’s examination after having faced problems during the first test on July 4. Gaurav Rao, a student of Kirori Mal College, said, “I did not have much expectation from the university, so I decided not to waste my time.” The dean of examination, Vinay Gupta, did not respond to calls and messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/another-mock-test-same-result-du-students-in-a-fix/articleshow/77208397.cms||Shradha Chettri
July 28, 2020||Goa||Experts slam inefficiency of Goa govt, opposition||MARGAO: The state government’s move to pass the budget without discussion, and the speaker’s decision to reject the adjournment motion has betrayed its, as well as the oppositions’, inefficiency in dealing with the current situation, said political and financial experts. While the BJP-led government earned the censure of financial analysts for passing the budget without discussion, political critics also blamed the opposition for leaving technical faults in the adjournment motion. Former MP and Union law minister Ramakant Khalap was particularly scathing in his attack on the government, terming the development a “mockery of the Constitutional process”. “The budget document has to be discussed by every member of the House. What they did is absolutely unbecoming in a democratic process,” he told TOI. However, former speaker Rajendra Arlekar saw no wrong in the government’s conduct and the speaker’s move. “This was an extraordinary situation,” Arlekar said. “In a normal situation, I would have accused the government of giving no time for members to discuss the budget proposals. But in the current situation, I feel the speaker has done nothing wrong,” he said. “The opposition too was aware of the situation as it was decided in the business advisory committee (BAC). Nobody objected then. Demanding an extended session or a virtual session barely two days ahead of the scheduled session was untenable.” Arlekar also picked holes in the opposition’s argument that passing the budget without discussion was unprecedented. “This isn’t the first time in the history of an Indian legislature or Parliament that such a thing has ever happened,” he said. “The budget has been passed this way whenever such a situation has occurred, or when the opposition disrupted proceedings in Parliament. This has happened in the Goa Assembly too.” Khalap accused the government of failing to explore alternative methods of holding a full-fledged budget session. “What prevented the government from holding a virtual session when even the high courts and the Supreme Court are hearing petitions in virtual mode,” he argued. “What was technically possible has been avoided, which only shows the scant regard the government has towards established democratic processes.” Khalap also called into question the speaker’s decision to reject the adjournment motion on the demand for the Covid situation in the state. “The Covid situation in Goa is alarming. Rejection of the adjournment motion at the threshold on grounds of some technical reasons is not convincing,” he said. Arlekar, on the other hand, felt that the opposition failed to put the adjournment motion to productive use. “There was no clear motive on the part of the opposition in moving the motion. What did they want to achieve? And considering the motion was accepted, and had the speaker adjourned the House (without passing the budget), the state’s constitutional machinery would have collapsed,” he said. Nevertheless, financial experts expressed their disapproval over the government’s move in passing the budget without discussion. “The public has a right to know how the taxpayer’s money is budgeted by the state," said financial analyst Dr Sanjay Dessai. "The government had placed a ban on capital expenditure by all government departments for six months. Has this been reflected in the revised budget, and in what manner? All this should have been discussed.” However, business management consultant Rajendra Kakodkar said, “If Congress employs amateurs to draft their adjournment motion, and when BJP employs the best of legal minds to find faults with it, it’s obvious it (would) outclass the opposition,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/experts-slam-govt-oppn-inefficiency/articleshow/77208993.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
July 28, 2020||Kochi||PIL seeks safety glass in buildings||Kochi: A high court division bench of Chief Justice S Manikumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly on Monday sought the views of the state government on a PIL seeking a directive to replace door glasses at all public and private buildings with safety glasses. The PIL was filed by Siddique Babu I through advocate A Rajasimhan in the backdrop of a woman’s death at a Bank of Baroda branch last month when she collided with a door glass. Unsafe annealed door glasses are being used on public, private, commercial, and domestic buildings. Following the woman’s death at Perumbavoor, Ernakulam district collector issued an order under Disaster Management Act for using toughened glass in commercial buildings. Similar orders were issued by district collectors of Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam, the petition said. Such executive orders are issued without any penal provision and they lack mechanism for implementation, it is contended. The court will consider the case again after two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pil-seeks-safety-glass-in-buildings/articleshow/77207207.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Madurai||Farmer’s wife seeks CB-CID probe into alleged custodial death||Madurai: A woman has moved the Madras high court seeking CB-CID probe in a case where her husband died due to alleged custodial torture by forest officials in Tenkasi district.The petitioner, Palammal, stated that she and her husband Anaikkarai Muthu, 70, of Vaagaikulam in the district owned an agricultural land. On July 22, at around 11pm, five officials from the forest department came to their house and took Muthu for inquiry. He had allegedly electrified his fence with direct power supply to protect the crops from wild animals.On knowing about this incident, her son Nagarajan and her relative went to the forest office, however, they noticed a forest department vehicle approaching them with Muthu in an unconscious state. Following this incident, he was referred to the Tenkasi government hospital where the doctors declared him brought dead at around 1am on July 23. She stated that Muthu did not have any health complication or illness and had died due to custodial torture by the forest officials. A case was registered under section 176 (1-A) of CrPC and the judicial magistrate was also conducting an inquest in this regard. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/farmers-wife-seeks-cb-cid-probe-into-alleged-custodial-death/articleshow/77208405.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Teen boy kidnapped, killed in Gorakhpur||GORAKHPUR: After two back-to-back sensational kidnappings in Kanpur and Gonda, a 14-year-old boy was kidnapped and found killed in Gorakhpur on Monday. The boy Baliram Gupta was kidnapped on Sunday afternoon after which his father got a ransom call of Rs 1 crore. On Monday evening, SSP Sunil Kumar Gupta told reporters that five people had been arrested while two are on the run. “Baliram, son of Mahajan Gupta, a resident of Jungle Chhatradhari village under Piparich police station, had gone missing on Sunday. Around 3pm, Mahajan Gupta, who runs a grocery store and also works as property dealer, received a call from an unidentified number informing his son has been kidnapped. The caller demanded a ransom of Rs 1 crore. Gupta called police at 5pm and informed his son Baliram had gone towards Bangla crossing around 12pm but did not return,” the SSP said. “We registered an FIR and constituted six teams of police and crime branch besides another team for technical surveillance. We zeroed in on SIM providers and arrested accused Dayanand Rajbhar of Jungle Dhoosar village who confessed they killed the boy on Sunday, stuffed his body in a sack and threw it in Kewatia nullah in the area,” he added. The kidnappers killed the boy as he had recognised them. Dayanand revealed Ajay Gupta of Jungle Dhoosar and Nikhil Bharti of Mishroulia village were also involved in kidnapping and murder and both were arrested. Police also arrested Rinku Gupta and Nitesh Paswan of Jungle Dhoosar for selling mobile SIM used for making ransom call. Nitin Chauhan and Ajai Chauhan are on the run. Additional superintendent of police, Gorakhpur North, Arvind Pandey said, “The body was recovered at 4.30pm today on the inputs provided by Rajbhar. There were injury marks on the throat and bleeding from mouth and nose.” The deceased boy was the only brother of five sisters. Rs 5 lakh aid to family, trial in fast track court: CMChief minister Yogi Adityanath took cognisance of the kidnapping-murder and ordered strict action against the accused. He ordered officials to consider booking the accused under NSA. The CM also announced Rs 5 lakh aid to the boy’s family and hearing of the case in fast-track court. Watch UP CM directs officials to take strict action against accused in kidnapping, murder of Gorakhpur teenager||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/teen-boy-kidnapped-killed-in-gorakhpur/articleshow/77209131.cms||Arjumand Bano
July 28, 2020||Nagpur||Silver leaves gold behind on investment, industrial demand||Nagpur: Silver has appreciated more than 24% in the last 10 days. Surpassing even the benchmark rates of gold pegged at per tola (10 grams), one kg of silver was quoted at Rs65,000 different markets across the state on Monday. Since March, the white metal has appreciated by nearly 45%. Gold, known as a safe haven asset in times of crisis like the current pandemic, has lagged behind. In the last 10 days, it has gained 7% while it has appreciated 25% since March. On Monday, gold was quoted at Rs 53,900 a tola. As the white metal is getting costlier due to global reasons like industrial demand and closure of mines in Latin America due to the pandemic, at home the retail consumer too is seeing an investment opportunity in silver. Traders contacted by TOI confirmed of not only a growing investment interest in silver but also a number of investors who had brought at the level Rs 42,000 to Rs 50,000 a kg are looking to book profits now. The local rates are depending on the high demand or selling pressure from place to place. Rajesh Rokde of Rokde Jewellers in the city said there has been an increased investment demand in silver during the recent times. Investors are expecting the rates may again touch Rs 75,000 a kg mark as they did in 2011. “Less spending during lockdown has also left investible surplus in people’s hands,” he said Nitin Khandelwal, former president Gems and Jewellery Council (GJC), said consumers who have weddings scheduled in the family during coming months have increased silver buying. There is a demand for raw silver too. If 80% are buying utensils and other items, the rest are buying the metal in bullion form, he said. Sunil Jangid, a trader from Jalgaon, said there have been inquiries for buying silver due to the sudden increase in rates. Some are looking forward to book profits too. Raju Shete, a trader from Hupari near Kolhapur, said a large section of investors who had purchased at the level of Rs 42,000 and above are now looking to book profits. The increase in supply has led to a discount of over Rs 1,500 in local market, as against the benchmark rates quoted in commodity exchanges. In Akola, however, the metal is fetching a premium of over Rs 1000, said Khandelwal. “There has been increased interest in silver as a means of investment. We are receiving inquiries too, but our advice is that any commodity for which rates go up so fast can come down as fast too. We are advising people to invest in silver through systematic investment plans (SIP), or other similar methods,” said Vijay Hayagriv, managing director of C Krishniah Chetty Group of Jewellers in Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/silver-leaves-gold-behind-on-investment-industrial-demand/articleshow/77222487.cms||Shishir Arya
July 28, 2020||Jaipur||Congress complains to President on weakening democracy and undermining constitution in Rajasthan||Jaipur: Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has sought the intervention of President Ram Nath Kovind to convene the assembly session and save the constitution.He had spoken to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the current political impasse in the state.Gehlot had written a letter to the prime minister only a few days ago on attempts by his own minister to destabilize his government by illegal means.A letter by the Congress legislature party addressed to the president on Monday said “sinister attempts have been made on the part of the BJP and its leaders to destabilize democratically elected government by horse trading and other corrupt practices” It had not only weakened democracy but thrown to the wind the constitutional scheme of things. In many states, governors in utter disregard of their constitutional post had denigrated the constitution at the behest of the ruling party leaders at the centre.“It is bolt to democracy that a union minister is still holding on to his office despite his role in the horse trading of MLAs and by other illegal means have been unearthed and prima faice established.” It was condemnable that out of political vendetta, central government agencies like ED, IT, and CBI are being misused to weaken and frighten the elected peoples’ representatives. “Today, the entire country is struggling with the global epidemic. The state government wants to convene an assembly session to discuss the ways and means to recover from the economic cost to the state due to Covid and provide relief to the people after discussion with all parties. But assembly is not being convened. Our constitutional rights are being violated,” said the letter.The letter said the state government was left with no other option except bring it to your notice though the president is aware of the political developments in Rajasthan. “If due to any reasons, you are not privy to the complete information, requested to go through the letter and kindly intervene in favour of convene an assembly session,” the letter asked.The president’s intervention also sought in states where the elected governments were destabilized by adopting undemocratic and illegal means so that in the country of Mahata Gandhi, the constitution made by great stalwarts like Pt Nehru, Sadar Patel, Babsheb Ambedkar saved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/congress-complains-to-president-on-weakening-democracy-and-undermining-constitution-in-rajasthan/articleshow/77208408.cms||Joychen Joseph
July 28, 2020||Jaipur||Assembly session being delayed to facilitate horse-trading: Gehlot||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday said he spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a day earlier, about the ‘behaviour’ of governor Kalraj Mishra in the ongoing political crisis in the state.“I told him yesterday (Sunday) that I have sent you a letter on the conditions in the state and how the governor is behaving with us. He said he will get it examined, as if he is not aware of anything,” Gehlot said at the Congress Legislature Party (CLP), while referring to the PM.The CM mentioned how the governor again returned the cabinet recommendation to call an assembly session, on Monday.“The law is very clear that once the cabinet recommends (for convening assembly), the file goes to the governor and comes back with the signature. This has been the experience so far. But for the first time continuous enquiries, appeals and questions are being raised,” Gehlot said.“We are being asked how you will call the MLAs. He (Mishra) is telling us that you are sitting at some place, while others (dissident MLAs) are sitting elsewhere, so how will you inform them,” the CM said, adding that it was not for the governor but for the speaker to worry about these aspects.“We are being asked why so short notice is given, what is the emergency, what will be the procedure (in the house), you have the majority, so why are calling the assembly. We all understand why such questions are being raised even though the governor is bound to accept the cabinet recommendation,” said Gehlot.The CM alleged that a conspiracy was being played to delay the assembly session. “The more the delay, the easier it will be to break (MLAs). Their only motive is to somehow get back the MLAs through horse-trading,” Gehlot said.The CM said, “Once our majority gets reduced, they will convene the assembly. They know that if the assembly is called now, they (dissident MLAs) will have to vote in our favour or their memberships will go; that is for sure because it is the speaker’s right. To avoid this, the game has been played under the supervision of the ‘Delhi sultanate’. But how long they can delay will be known soon?”Addressing the MLAs in the hotel as “democracy warriors”, Gehlot said, “Till my last breath, I will be a guardian to each one of you who are struggling to save Congress.” The CM again targeted Sachin Pilot and said, “You will rarely find a person who, despite being the party head, will conspire to get his own party government toppled. What they are doing is not dissent, it is a revolt against the party as they are conspiring with the BJP; you all are aware about union minister (Gajendra Singh) Shekhawat.” Gehlot said, “The 19 Congress MLAs who have made a mistake, should apologise to Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/assembly-session-being-delayed-to-facilitate-horse-trading-gehlot/articleshow/77208411.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Covid vaccine human trial begins in city||Bhubaneswar: Human trial of the much-awaited indigenous vaccine against the coronavirus began at the Institute of Medical Sciences and SUM Hospital here on Monday. Covaxin, which is being developed by Bharat Biotech, was administered to some volunteers of the trial, E Venkat Rao, principal investigator of the trial, said. Although the hospital authorities did not disclose the number of volunteers administered the vaccine, sources said five people got the shot. The vaccination was done after the volunteers underwent a rigorous screening procedure. Rao, who is a professor at the hospital’s department of community medicine, said there was a lot of enthusiasm among those who had offered to be volunteers in the trial. The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) which is collaborating with the pharma company to develop the vaccine, has chosen 12 medical institutes in the country for the human trial. The IMS and SUM Hospital is the only institute in Odisha to be chosen for the purpose. The registration of volunteers is also still on. Those interested in volunteering for the project may contact the institute by registering online at ptctu.soa.ac.in under the section ‘register for clinical trials’. Volunteers need to be disease-free and can screen themselves using a simple questionnaire available at the same website, Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/covid-vaccine-human-trial-begins-in-city/articleshow/77205561.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat adds highest wind power generation capacity||Ahmedabad: Continuing to attract wind power project developers, Gujarat added the highest capacity for wind power generation in 2019-20. The state had also grabbed a lion’s share of the new wind power capacity installed across India in the last fiscal. The state saw installation of new wind power generation capacity of 1,468MW between April 2019 to March 2020, shows data compiled by Indian Wind Turbine Manufacturers Association and Indian Wind Energy Association.  Gujarat was followed by Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, which added 335 MW and 206MW respectively. A total 2,118MW of new capacity was installed in India in fiscal 2020, of which 70% was in Gujarat alone, the data further shows. With new installations, Gujarat’s total wind power generation capacity has now increased to 7,542MW, which is the second-highest installed capacity in India after Tamil Nadu (9,304MW). “Most of the projects commissioned in Gujarat during 2019-20 were auctioned by the central government. Although these projects have come up in Gujarat, the power generated will go to the central government pool,” said an industry player, who did not wish to be quoted. India’s total installed wind power capacity stood at 37,744MW as on March 31, 2020. The state continued to see more installations even in the first quarter ended June 30. The state attracted 132MW of the total 136MW installed in India during the quarter. The remaining 4MW were added in Karnataka, said industry sources. Gujarat had seen a sharp jump in wind power generation on some days in May and July. Heavy pre-monsoon winds in last week of May had pushed up average wind power generation in the state to a high of 3,947 MW on May 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-adds-highest-wind-power-generation-capacity/articleshow/77208419.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Delhi||‘Hate speech’: Delhi HC lets activist withdraw plea against politicos||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Monday permitted social activist Harsh Mander to withdraw his plea seeking registration of FIR against politicians for their alleged hate speech to fuel violence in northeast Delhi in February this year. A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan allowed Mander, represented through senior advocate Kapil Sibal, to withdraw the plea and instead approach the trial court with the same prayer. The court was hearing several petitions related to the violence where Mander, along with Left politician Brinda Karat, has sought registration of FIRs under provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) against political party members including BJP’s Kapil Mishra. Earlier, Delhi Police, in its affidavit on the petitions, had submitted that the police authorities acted promptly, vigilantly, and effectively without any fear or favour as a result of which violence could be contained in a few days and to a limited area. “Speeches of political members, including Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi, Anurag Thakur, Kapil Mishra, Pravesh Verma, Waris Pathan, and others, are being examined by Delhi Police and necessary action in this regard will be taken in due course of time if evidence is found that their speech had any nexus with the riots,” the affidavit said, adding that the petitions raising questions on the investigation is nothing but a blatant and brazen misuse of public interest litigation. In response, Sibal told the court that he wished to seek relief before the magistrate’s court and was allowed to withdraw the plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hate-speech-hc-lets-activist-withdraw-plea-against-politicos/articleshow/77208406.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 250 more AC buses may hit roads by September||NEW DELHI: There is good news for bus commuters in the capital. As many as 250 air-conditioned buses are likely to hit the streets in the next two months. In July last year, Delhi government had announced that 4,000 new buses will be added in the city’s public transport bus fleet and 1,152 of these buses, brought under the Cluster Scheme, are already plying on the city’s roads. The number of total buses in the Cluster Scheme is nearly 2,900 and 1,000 of these are standard floor buses that were added in batches over the last one year. The last lot was inducted just before the national lockdown. Apart from the standard floor buses, the government also plans to induct 1,000 air-conditioned, low-floor buses in the Cluster Scheme fleet. “The tender was awarded for 400 buses out of which 152 buses are operational. We are trying our best to induct the rest 248 buses latest by September,” a senior Delhi government official said. “Out of the 248 buses, 93 are Bharat Stage-IV (BS-IV) vehicles that were supposed to be registered by April 30 but that couldn’t happen because of the Covid-19-induced lockdown. April 30 was the deadline set by Supreme Court for registration of BS-IV vehicles,” the official said. He said these 93 BS-IV buses can be inducted in the city’s bus fleet subject to clearance from the apex court. “The rest of the 155 buses are BS-VI vehicles and we are trying to get these buses to Delhi as early as we can. However, due to the lockdown and subsequent shortage of workers, problems are also being faced by the manufacturer,” he said. “We are trying our best to get the buses by September and preferably the first lot next month itself,” he added. Thanks to the steady addition of buses in the Cluster Scheme fleet, the total number of public transport buses in Delhi had reached 6,223 in February this year, which was higher than the peak of 6,204 buses last seen in 2010 ahead of the Commonwealth Games. While an optimal number of buses is being deployed for public transport of late, the implementation of strict social distancing norms in the wake of the corona crisis has resulted in high waiting time for buses. The buses, which accommodated nearly 100 passengers before the pandemic, are now not allowed to accommodate more than 20 passengers at any given point of time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/250-more-ac-buses-may-hit-roads-by-sept/articleshow/77208423.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 28, 2020||Bhubaneswar||RMRC to end 1st round of sero survey today||Bhubaneswar: The first round of the serological survey in the city will be completed on Tuesday. Around 1,400 samples have been collected so far from high-risk population groups for the second phase of the first round. Earlier, more than 900 samples were collected in the first phase of the first round and the results showed that around 2% of the people tested had developed antibodies to SARS-CoV-2. The aim of the serological survey — which checks for antibodies in the blood and can determine whether a person has been infected by the novel coronavirus in the past — is to figure out the extent of the spread of the infection in the state capital. The survey is being conducted by the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) and the ICMR-Regional Medical Research Centre (RMRC) here. The first phase of the first round of the survey began on July 11. In that phase, samples were collected from the community (randomly selected persons) on July 11 and 12. In the second phase of the first round, people belonging to high-risk categories were included in the survey. The survey team collected around 1,400 samples from high-risk groups like immuno-compromised patients, healthcare workers, security personnel, municipal workers, drivers, shopkeepers, vendors, airport workers, slum dwellers, migrants in camps and containment zones. The team will collect around 200 samples from mediapersons on Tuesday to achieve the target of collecting 1,600 samples for the second phase. RMRC director Sanghamitra Pati said around 2,500 samples would be collected in the first round of the survey. The second round will start 28 days after the first round as per the technical mandate. “After collection of the samples, we will test them and analyse the data, before sending it to the BMC and the state government,” she added. “Normally, antibodies develop within four weeks of an antigen entering the body. Today’s sero surveillance will show the infection status of three to four weeks previously. So antibody test tells us about past infection. That is why we are planning to conduct the second round of the survey after four weeks to compare the antibody development and immunity status of people from one round to the other,” said Pati.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/rmrc-to-end-1st-round-of-sero-survey-today/articleshow/77205581.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
July 28, 2020||Madurai||HC seeks report on work progress at Tamukkam ground||Madurai: Disposing of a plea which sought to stop the work carried out under the Smart City project at Tamukkam ground, the Madras high court on Monday directed the Madurai Corporation to file a status report with regard to the work progress.The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by C Nethaji Karthikeyan, founder of NGO Ilam Kaalaigal Trust, who said that construction of a convention centre, which is under way would reduce the size of the ground.The corporation commissioner in his counter-affidavit stated that Tamukkam ground extends to 9.65acres. The Kalaiarangam which was constructed in 1962 is in a dilapidated condition, so a new convention centre is being constructed for Rs 45.55 crore with all basic amenities for conduct of conventions and exhibitions. Apart from the constructed area, the remaining 5.60 acres of ground would be left intact for conduct of the Chithirai festival exhibition, book fair and other open air exhibitions. The proposed convention centre could also be used for setting up of stalls during exhibitions. Taking cognizance of the submissions, a division bench of justice M Sathyanarayanan and justice P Rajamanickam observed that by considering the ancient and historical nature of the ground, the corporation should ensure that the construction work is qualitative in nature and also ensure that it is completed within the fixed timeframe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-report-on-work-progress-at-tamukkam-ground/articleshow/77208409.cms||---
July 28, 2020||India||Won’t move money in PM Cares Fund to NDRF: Centre to SC||NEW DELHI: The Union government on Monday told the Supreme Court that money in a public charitable fund, like the PM Cares Fund, could not be transferred to a statutory fund like the National Disaster Response Fund, which gets budgetary allocations from the Centre. The Centre’s response came after senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for NGO ‘Centre for Public Interest Litigation’, told a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, RS Reddy and MR Shah that the government was rightly scrutinising contributions to the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation, and contributions to the PM Cares Fund should similarly be scanned. He said while NDRF was subject to auditing by the CAG, the PM Cares Fund was scrutinised by independent auditors. “Why can’t it be made subject to public scrutiny?” he asked. Dave said when there existed a PM National Relief Fund and NDRF, the PM Cares Fund could not have been set up. His plea for transfer of money in the PM Cares Fund, estimated to be Rs 11,000 crore, to the NDRF was supported by senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who said while contributions to the new fund by corporate houses were counted as CSR activity, the same status was not available for funds set up by CMs. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta replied that CSR exemption for donations to NDRF was also available. “Contributions to NDRF is through budgetary allocations and also voluntary donations. But PM Cares is a pubic charitable trust. Can anyone make an argument that funds from a public charitable trust be taken and put in a statutory fund?” he said , adding that the amount would not be transferred to NDRF. The court reserved its verdict on the plea for transfer of the corpus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/wont-move-money-in-pm-cares-fund-to-ndrf-centre-to-sc/articleshow/77210035.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
July 28, 2020||Madurai||Farmer’s wife seeks CB-CID probe into alleged custodial death||Madurai: A woman has moved the Madras high court seeking CB-CID probe in a case where her husband died due to alleged custodial torture by forest officials in Tenkasi district.The petitioner, Palammal, stated that she and her husband Anaikkarai Muthu, 70, of Vaagaikulam in the district owned an agricultural land. On July 22, at around 11pm, five officials from the forest department came to their house and took Muthu for inquiry. He had allegedly electrified his fence with direct power supply to protect the crops from wild animals.On knowing about this incident, her son Nagarajan and her relative went to the forest office, however, they noticed a forest department vehicle approaching them with Muthu in an unconscious state. Following this incident, he was referred to the Tenkasi government hospital where the doctors declared him brought dead at around 1am on July 23. She stated that Muthu did not have any health complication or illness and had died due to custodial torture by the forest officials. A case was registered under section 176 (1-A) of CrPC and the judicial magistrate was also conducting an inquest in this regard. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/farmers-wife-seeks-cb-cid-probe-into-alleged-custodial-death/articleshow/77208421.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Jaipur||HC dismisses BJP MLA’s petition challenging BSP-Congress merger||JAIPUR: Rajasthan High Court on Monday dismissed BJP MLA Madan Dilawar’s petition seeking direction from speaker CP Joshi to decide on his long-pending complaint against the merger of six BSP MLAs into the Congress. Dilawar had filed the complaint in March. The single bench of justice Mahendar Kumar Goyal dismissed the petition as “infructuous” after additional advocate general RP Singh informed the court that the speaker had already decided the BJP MLA’s complaint on July 24. Senior counsel Harish Salve represented the BJP MLA in the matter. The BSP too had reached the court to become a party to the case but as the BJP MLA’s petition got dismissed, it may now file a fresh petition either before the high court or the Supreme Court. Considering the six MLAs as still its own, BSP general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra on Sunday issued a whip directing them to vote against the Congress in case a trust vote is held in the state assembly. Rajasthan’s AICC general secretary in-charge Avinash Pande said, “For issuing a whip, the party needs to have a member in the assembly. Anybody cannot issue. Where does the BSP have a member in Rajasthan assembly.” Early in the day, Dilawar staged dharna in the assembly alleging delay in getting a copy of the speaker’s decision on his complaint. The BJP MLA from Ramganj Mandi constituency in Kota district had challenged speaker CP Joshi’s decision to merge the six BSP MLAs—Sandeep Yadav (Tijara), Wajib Ali (Nagar), Joginder Singh Avana (Nadbai), Deepchand Kheria (Kishangarh Bas), Lakhan Singh Meena (Karauli) and Rajendra Gudha (Udaipurwati)—into Congress. The six BSP MLAs moved an application for their merger into Congress on September 16, 2019 and two days later, on September 18, 2019, the speaker declared them an integral part of Congress. Dilwara subsequently complained to the speaker on March 16 and sought disqualification of the MLAs under Para (2) of the Constitution’s Schedule X. Dilawar said the six MLAs voluntarily gave up BSP membership by seeking merger into Congress. Dilawar said in court, “As per Para (4) of Schedule X, the condition of two-third numbers to accept a merger is second condition, but the first condition is that the original party of the legislators seeking merger should have merged into the other political party. Even if all MLAs of a party decide, the merger cannot be legal until the original party decides to merge. In this case, the MLAs never claimed the BSP merged into Congress but sought only their merger into Congress.” The BJP MLA said the speaker failed to decide on his petition for four months but issued disqualification notices to 19 Congress MLAs on July 14, the same day when Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi filed complaint against them. “The speaker continues to exhibit allegiance to Congress on whose ticket he got elected,” Dilawar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-dismisses-bjp-mlas-petition-challenging-bsp-cong-merger/articleshow/77208417.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Mysuru||Farmers in Mysuru, C’nagar start preparations for paddy cultivation||Mysuru/Chamarajanagar: In the wake of the Cauvery Neeravari Nigam Ltd making an announcement assuring farmers of releasing water to the irrigation canals of the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) and Kabini dams in the last week of July, sowing of kharif crop in the region is likely to intensify, with many farmers preparing their land for the water-intensive crop. In Mysuru and Chamarajanagar districts, farmers have started tilling the land, and are ridding their plots of weeds, in the hope of a bumper harvest, which the early release of water to the canals has made more likely. In the meanwhile, ryots in Mandya district are working in full swing for the sowing of sugarcane. Joint director of agriculture department Mahanteshappa told STOI that in Mysuru district, they had set a target for a harvest of eight lakh metric tonnes of paddy. “We have been distributing a wide variety of paddy seeds to farmers through the primary agriculture cooperative societies. We have stocked up on nitrogenous, phosphorus, urea and compost fertilisers to meet the farmers’ requirements,” he added. Last week, Mysuru district in-charge minister ST Somashekar announced that water would soon be released to the irrigation canals, bringing much joy to the farmers. The copious rain in the catchment areas of the Cauvery River has pushed the water level in the KRS and Kabini dams closer to its brim. In Mysuru district, paddy is being cultivated across 95,000 hectares, while it is grown across 19,000 hectares in Chamarajanagar. In Mandya, of the total area under irrigation of 1,16,901 hectares, 88,000 hectares are fed by the KRS Dam, while 16,000 hectares are nourished by the waters from the Hemavathi Reservoir. Nearly half the irrigated agricultural land in the district is earmarked for the cultivation of sugarcane. Karigowda, a paddy farmer in T Narasipur taluk, said that he grew the crop on eight acres last year, and was expectant of a bumper harvest this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/farmers-in-mysuru-cnagar-start-preparations-for-paddy-cultivation/articleshow/77204852.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Lucknow||UP: 120kg turtle meat seized in Barabanki; a first in north India, claim cops||LUCKNOW: In what could be seen as the first of its kind haul in north India, Barabanki district police have seized 120kg turtle meat possibly meant to be sold abroad. Police have alerted the wildlife division of Interpol, which is based in Singapore, to find out what market the consignment was headed to. Senior police officials said they had received a tip-off from Intelligence Bureau (IB) and Turtle Survival Alliance (TSA) that soft shell turtle was being smuggled in large quantities from Amethi, Sultanpur, Rae Bareli, Barabanki and Bahraich. A dedicated team was formed under inspector of Loni Katra and was directly supervised by SP Barabanki. “Based on the inputs, we laid a trap near Loni Katra turn and intercepted a goods carrier with six persons. During inspection of the vehicle, thermocol boxes stuffed with fish were recovered and below that meat of turtle was concealed,” said SP Barabanki Arvind Chaturvedi. Six people—Ramanada Bhagat, Guddu, Vishal Lal, Rakesh, Kamlesh and Salman—were arrested while 120kg turtle meat was recovered. Experts from TSA, a US-based NGO in Lucknow, were called to the spot to confirm the findings. Chaturvedi, who has cracked over 200 animal trafficking cases while in UP STF, said the arrested men had revealed that the meat was on way to Pilibhit. However, they did not know if it was meant for a destination further. “We have sought assistance of the wildlife unit of Interpol in this case,” he added. According to statistics and data available with UP STF, usually, calipee from a turtle’s body is smuggled for soup to China, Hong Kong, Thailand, Singapore, and Malaysia. Thousands of live turtles have been caught by STF in the past on way to being smuggled. However, turtle meat smuggling was a first for UP Police, forest department, TSA or Wildlife Crime Control Bureau, the SP said. TSA India director Shailendra Singh told TOI that the recovered meat belonged to soft shell turtle species which according to the Wild Wildlife Conservation Act, 1972, was a forest animal and classified highly vulnerable by the International Union for Conservation of Nature IUCN. “It is for the first time in UP that turtle meat has been recovered. Samples have been collected and would be sent to Wildlife Institute of India in Dehradun and Indian Veterinary Research Institute,” he said. According to sources, Interpol is considering issuing an alert over smuggling of animals via sea and land routes during the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/120kg-turtle-meat-seized-in-barabanki-a-first-in-north-india-claim-cops/articleshow/77209168.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
July 28, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: IIM Kolkata student quit overseas job for organic farming||AJMER: Ankita Kumawat, 33, who had done her marketing course from IIM Kolkata and worked in USA for some years, found that she could work for her own country and returned to Ajmer. She is now producing organic milk and grocery and selling internationally online from her small village of Badliya. Her husband Lokesh Gupta, 35, also an MBA, is now growing organic vegetables and lentils in 80 hectares and is giving employment to over 100 people. The couple aims at providing organic food for the middle and lower middle class. During lockdown, Ankita came as an employment-provider for her village selling organic milk products and veggies. She is proud that after studying in a prestigious institute, she is able to do something for her village. Both Ankita and Lokesh are residing at her farmhouse in Badliya village on Jaipur-Beawar highway and having about 50 cows of local Rajasthani breed. “We utilise the dung and cow urine as manure and even use them as pesticide,” Ankita said. The couple said as any other young professionals they too had dreams of a good job after their studies and they worked abroad, too, but they were missing something. “Before joining farming, we did a lot of research and worked as a labour in the dairy of my father for a year,” added Ankita. She quit her job in 2014 and started her own farming business. She said she started the dairy with her father to provide pure and fresh milk to children even as she started understanding the rural economy. Now, this couple is selling more than 150 organic products online and also delivering on demand to local people. Lokesh said that they are now farming at different lands with local farmers to yield organic products. The aim is to make farmers aware that chemicals are destroying their lands and therefore it is important to move towards organic farming, “Yes, we failed in many experiments, but we research regularly,” added Lokesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/iim-student-quit-overseas-job-for-organic-farming/articleshow/77208422.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Delhi||Cops can’t publicly name accused in case against Pinjra Tod activists, says Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: Binding Delhi Police to its own advisory on sharing information with the media, Delhi high court on Monday barred police from naming any accused or witness publicly in the FIRs registered against Pinjra Tod activist Devangana Kalitha and others, till the trial starts. “The cases concerning communal riots are undoubtedly sensitive cases. This court is also informed that FIRs filed in such cases are not being publicly disclosed. This court considers it apposite to direct the respondent not to issue any further communication naming any accused or any witness till the charges, if any, are framed and the trial is commenced,” justice Vibhu Bakhru directed, while dealing with Kalitha’s plea alleging selective leak of certain evidence against her by police. The high court, however, found nothing amiss in the press release issued by police naming Kalitha on June 2 and noted that it only reflected what was contained in the chargesheet. It pointed out that there was no selective leakage of the material and agreed with the stand of Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi that the response of police had been measured. But any more statements by police before trial will violate not just the guidelines in this regard, but also have the "propensity to destroy the presumption of innocence," the court said adding that since the trial is required to be conducted in an open court, unless directed otherwise, police can’t be restrained from issuing statements at the stage of trial. Kalitha is lodged in Tihar Jail in a case associated with violence in Daryaganj area in December last year. In its 33-page verdict, the court said that the “the right to live includes the right to live with human dignity” while observing that “police or any other agency cannot use the media to influence public opinion to accept that the accused is guilty of an alleged offence while the matter is still being investigated.” Justice Bakhru noted that an April 2010 office memorandum of police also stipulates that briefing should normally be done only on four stages of the case -- registration, arrest of the accused, chargesheeting and final outcome.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-cant-publicly-name-accused-in-case-against-pinjra-tod-activists/articleshow/77208415.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Jaipur||PIL in HC seeking removal of governor||Jaipur: In the midst of the political tug of war between governor Kalraj Mishra and the state government over convening the assembly session, a lawyer had filed a petition in the high court seeking the removal of governor for his ‘failure to perform constitutional obligations’.Lawyer Shantanu Pareek said his petition would come up for hearing on Wednesday. The PIL pleaded the high court to direct the council of ministers to advise the President of India for the removal of the governor of Rajasthan as he has failed to perform his constitutional obligations as enshrined under Article 63 read with Article 174 of the Constitution by not calling the special session of the Rajasthan state assembly on the request of the council of ministers to prove the majority of the Rajasthan government via floor test in the House.The petitioner said the constitutional principles mandates the governor to act on the aid and advice of the council of ministers. If such an advice has been ignored by the governor, it amounts to violation of the constitutional principles and it causes a disturbance in the whole constitutional mechanism.Since a governor enjoys immunity under Article 361 of the Constitution and could not be made a party to the writ petition, so the court has been requested to issue directions to the council of ministers to advice the President for the removal of the governor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pil-in-hc-seeking-removal-of-governor/articleshow/77208424.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Kanpur||Police fail to recover Sanjeet’s body, to take remand of accused||Kanpur: After failing to recover lab technician Sanjeet Yadav’s body with regard to inputs provided during interrogation by the five accused, who confessed to police of kidnapping, murdering and dumping his body in Pandu river, the police are all set to procure their remand. Also, after one of the accused on Monday tested positive for coronavirus, he was admitted to a Covid hospital and the four other accused have been quarantined at a temporary jail in Chaubeypur. To recall, the police, besides the body, also could not recover victim's other belongings including his mobile phone, bag containing charger, tiffin box and pathology lab documents. Claiming that the remand was necessary to gather evidences against the accused, Circle Officer Govind Nagar Vishal Pandey said that an application has already been moved in Court for their remand on Monday. "We are hopeful of getting their remand on Tuesday," he said further. Police are also zeroing in on the sixth accused Simmi, who is on the run, the CO added. Meanwhile, Chaman Singh, father of Sanjeet, has accused suspended Inspector of Barra police station of mentally harassing him by making his audio viral on social media. Singh told reporters that suspended Inspector has been making frequent calls to him and exerting pressure on him by recording their telephonic conversation and later making it viral. "The Inspector is asking us to change statement with regard to ransom money," he alleged before media on Monday. Meanwhile, one of the five accused, who along with four others was arrested on July 23, was found Covid positive in the test report received on Monday. Following the report, the accused was admitted to the Covid 19 hospital while several policemen of Barra police station and Surveillance Cell, who had come in contact with him, were sent to self-isolation. The test reports of the cops are expected by Thursday. The accused along with four others including a woman, was arrested on July 23, Barra Inspector Harmeet Singh said. His Covid samples were collected on Sunday and it was confirmed on Monday that the accused was positive. Meanwhile, four other accused have also been quarantined at a temporary jail in Chaubeypur, he added. Sanjeet was kidnapped in Barra area on June 22, had been murdered by his abductors. According to the police, the kidnappers killed the youth last month, on June 26-27, a few days after abducting him, and dumped his body in the Pandu River. The victim’s family has alleged that kidnappers had escaped with a ransom of Rs 30 lakh in the presence of police. A probe has also been ordered in this regard. On July 2,3 five accused Gyanendra, Kuldeep, Neelu, Ramji and, Preeti were arrested by the police. They said that they had taken a room on rent at Ratan Lal Nagar to keep the captive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/police-fail-to-recover-sanjeets-body-to-take-remand-of-accused/articleshow/77208430.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Jaipur||Jodhpur admn to begin death audit to identify causes||JODHPUR: Amid surging casualties of Corona positive cases in Jodhpur, the administration will now begin death audit to look into the causes of deaths under its Mission Jeevan Raksha. A team has been constituted by district magistrate Indrajeet Singh, which will be headed by a trainee IAS officer. This team will review the death cases through a normal inquiry. According to Singh, the objective of this audit is to ensure efficient and expedite medical arrangements to patients of serious nature or those with comorbidities with a view to contain the death rate of positive cases. “This team would be looking into every death case of Covid-19 infection and identify the causes or markers leading to casualty so that they could be addressed on time and death rate reduced,” he said. This team will have the liberty to seek cooperation of any officer, employee or any person that the team considers significant for the inquiry and ask for any document or statement during its inquiry. Besides this, the administration has appointed SDMs of all sub-divisions as incident commanders of their respective areas to ensure survey, test, containment zone declaration, home isolation and other arrangements with a view to contain the spike in the cases. For the supervision and coordination with these incident commanders, two nodal officers have also been appointed, who will be carrying out consistent visits of the sub-divisions under their control. They will ensure smooth execution of all the arrangements and coordination with the medical, police or other departments, wherever and whenever required. Police has started cracking its whip on violators of quarantine protocol. In a first such step, a person identified as Irshaad was arrested by the police for infringing upon quarantine guidelines and coming out of the house despite being under home quarantine. DCP (East) Dharmendra Singh said that police will file FIRs and arrest such persons, who turn out to be a threat to other people by violating quarantine guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jodhpur-admn-to-begin-death-audit-to-identify-causes/articleshow/77208426.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat Congress leaders held during protest march to Raj Bhavan||GANDHINAGAR: Top Gujarat Congress leaders including state president Amit Chavda, leader of opposition (LOP) Paresh Dhanani and about 20 others were detained by the Gandhinagar police on Monday for holding a protest march to the Raj Bhavan without permission. Newly appointed GPCC working president Hardik Patel was conspicuous by his absence. The march was a part of the nationwide demonstration planned for Monday by the Congress to protest against alleged anti-constitutional and anti-democratic behaviour of constitutional authorities, which it claimed were playing into the hands of the BJP. Before the march, Chavda said: “Constitutional authorities like governors, who should act without bias, according to the Constitution of India, and should safeguard values of democracy, are falling into the hands of BJP pressure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-cong-leaders-held-during-protest-march-to-raj-bhavan/articleshow/77208427.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Jaipur||Office in-charge can be fined Rs 10k for flouting coronavirus norms||Jaipur: The state government on Sunday, in exercise of powers conferred under Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, authorized the general manager of district industry centers and unit head of RIICO, within their respective jurisdiction, to impose a penalty of Rs 10,000 to the in-charge of a work place for not following working-hour norms, not sanitizing the work place or maintaining social distancing. In a notification issued on Monday by the home department, the regional transport officers and district transport officers were authorized to impose a penalty of Rs 200 to any person not wearing face mask or face cover in public transport such as - auto, cab, rickshaw, bus, train etc. Also, in exercise of powers conferred under the ordinance, the state government authorized CEOs of Zila Parishad and block development officers (within their respective jurisdiction in rural area), regional transport officers, district transport officers, general manager of district industry centers and unit head of RIICO, within their respective jurisdiction, as authorized officer to act in respect of offence committed. Earlier, the state government had authorized police officers not below the rank of head constable, within their respective jurisdiction, as authorized officer to act in respect of any offence committed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/office-in-charge-can-be-fined-rs-10k-for-flouting-coronavirus-norms/articleshow/77208429.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Gang makes Rs 5 crore extortion calls from Tihar Jail||NEW DELHI: Police were taken aback when gangster Jitender Gogi and his man Friday Dinesh Karala, both lodged in Tihar Jail, tried to extort Rs 5 crore from a Dubai-based businessman who recently arrived in the capital. Three mobile phones were seized during a search and it was found that the calls were made through voice and video call facilities of social networking sites to avoid detection. The businessman approached the Rohini (north) police station on July 7 saying he had received five extortion calls from different numbers on his WhatApp and the caller identified himself as Jitender Gogi. Then Karala called him to follow up on the status of payment. Tracking down the calls, police found all IP addresses originating from Tihar Jail. The jail authorities were asked to conduct a search at the barracks where Gogi and Karala are lodged. Later, a police team took custody of the gangsters and arrested them in this case after interrogation. The probe also revealed that the businessman was facing an investigation in a monetary scam. Tihar director-general Sandeep Goel said a senior official had been asked to find out how the phones had reached the premises. “We are increasing the frequency of raids in barracks where such prisoners are lodged,” he added. The incident has again brought to fore extortion rackets that are being running from inside Tihar. In the past six months, multiple cases of criminals using mobile phones from within the jail walls have surfaced. The authorities had installed 3G signal jammers two years ago but these seem to be ineffective in case of 4G technology, a source said. Recently, an inmate accused jail staffers of using him to supply phones to other inmates, a charge that Tihar had denied. Ever since the lockdown, several inmates had uploaded phone videos. Gogi was captured in March by a unit that doesn’t deal with organised crime, triggering rumours of surrender.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gang-makes-rs-5cr-extortion-calls-from-tihar/articleshow/77208437.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||People can soon view virtual court proceedings: Gujarat high court||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has decided to stream live its court proceedings for people including media persons. It will start once a two-judge committee finalizes the modalities in this regard. A bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala mentioned in its order that the HC’s standing committee decided on June 26 to go for live streaming of court proceedings, which are taking place through video-conferencing due to Covid-19 pandemic at present. A two-judge committee has been tasked to prepare a report on this. “Once the report is received, the further action to allow access to the public at large including the media persons of print digital and electronic media shall be finalized,” the court said in an order released on Monday. The HC said so after hearing a PIL filed by a law student of Nirma University, Pruthvirajsinh Zala, who sought public access to the virtual hearings and urged the HC to frame necessary rules for live streaming. He contended that live streaming or open access of court proceedings is feasible due to advanced technology. In fact, even physical hearings can be made more accessible by setting up live streaming mechanism. He has cited examples of supreme courts of various countries and the high courts in different states of India that are live streaming court proceedings because they have started hearing through video conferencing due to the pandemic. After hearing the petitioner, the court appreciated the student’s efforts put in public interest. “He has taken up this cause in public interest and has assisted this court very ably furnishing important materials,” the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-people-can-soon-view-virtual-court-proceedings/articleshow/77208436.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Bareilly||Covid-19 +ve bank staff under home quarantine dies in Kheri||Bareilly: A 56-year-old employee of a co-operative bank, who was tested positive for Covid-19 and was under home isolation, passed away on Monday morning. He was under treatment at his home and his condition suddenly worsened. This is the third death reported in Kheri district due to Covid-19. Overall, 28 people, including employees of the excise department and two under-trials, were tested positive in Kheri district on Monday.The deceased was a resident of Phoolbehad area and he was found positive on Saturday. Since he had no symptoms, he was home quarantined on family’s request. His family members said that he had a cough and mild fever at night and they informed the medical staff about it. On Monday morning, he complained about difficulty in breathing and died soon after.Kheri CMO Dr Manoj Agarwal said, “A man who was tested positive and quarantined at home died on Monday. He was asymptomatic and we are checking his medical history to know about associative disease that he was suffering from.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/covid-19-ve-bank-staff-under-home-quarantine-dies-in-kheri/articleshow/77203532.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: After long four months, lawyers to begin filing hard copies||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has relaxed the norms of filing cases for lawyers a bit after long four months, and permitted them to file hard copies in lower courts from August 4. The HC has issued guidelines for physical filing of cases and made it clear that the permission for lawyers to enter court campus is for registration of cases only and the courts will continue to hear cases online. This must not be construed as opening of courts, the HC has made it clear. The high court has expanded the category of urgent cases. Besides bail applications and recovery of seized goods, the HC has not permitted lower court judges to treat matters of search warrants and recovery of maintenance amount as urgent matters. Though all types of cases can be filed now, hearing will take place only on urgent matters. Physical filing of cases has not been permitted on account of Covid-19 pandemic since March. Various bar associations requested the HC to allow lawyers to file matters in hard copy because many of the lawyers are not at ease with the electronic mode of filing of cases. The HC has said that all lower courts, except those falling in micro-containment zones, will start accepting physical filing of cases. The principal judges will identify a separate room or create a special counter in court complexes for submitting copies of applications in sealed covers. The window will remain open for three hours a day. After submission of the case in sealed cover, the cover would be kept in abeyance for a day in cabinet before it is processed further. The judges have been asked to permit lawyers inside court campus one by one, and with masks and gloves. The lawyers and court staff must follow social distancing norms. The principal judges have been asked to call minimum staff to meet the need of increased work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/after-long-four-months-lawyers-to-begin-filing-hard-copies/articleshow/77208432.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Jaipur||Govt to make Tocilizumab available for Covid treatment||JAIPUR: Following a surge in Covid cases, the government will ensure availability of expensive injections — tocilizumab and remdisivir — across the state and supply it on demand basis. Rajasthan Medical Services Corporation has already been directed to procure the two injections. In addition to ensuring availability of the injections, plasma therapy for Covid patients has started in Jodhpur and Kota. Udaipur Medical College has got Indian Council for Medical Research nod, while Bikaner and Ajmer are also putting efforts to get ICMR permission for plasma therapy. Jaipur’s SMS Hospital had already conducted more than 40 plasma therapies. Tocilizumab, originally approved for rheumatoid arthritis patients, is an expensive injection costing around Rs 40,000 for a single jab. It was given to Covid patients with complications at SMS Hospital along with remdisivir. While tocilizumab is given once, the course of remdisivir is continued for five days. SMS Hosptial claimed that it got encouraging results. For the past two days, chief minister Ashok Gehlot has been holding meetings with health minister Raghu Sharma and health department officials along with prominent doctors and administrators of medical colleges focusing on how to prevent deaths in the state happening due to Covid. Though the mortality rate in the state is just above 1%, the state government is focusing on saving lives of each of the patients. “A well-to-do person can get the treatment of the two injections. But, for people who are underprivileged should be provided with the same drugs. For the purpose, Rajasthan Medical Services Corporation has been given instructions for procurement of the two drugs. On demand basis, the two injections will be supplied across state,” said Sharma. Sharma said the 40 patients who were provided with two injections have been cured at SMS Hospital. Besides, plasma therapy has been expanded to Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota. In Udaipur, plasma therapy started on Monday and Bikaner and Ajmer are also in the pipeline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-to-make-tocilizumab-available-for-covid-treatment/articleshow/77208433.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Jaipur||Active cases breach 10,000, infections over 37,000||JAIPUR: Active cases breached the 10,000 mark on Monday as the state recorded 1,134 fresh cases, the biggest single-day spike so far. For the past three days, the state had reported more than 1,000 cases taking the overall infection count to 37,564. The graph of active cases is constantly spiralling. On June 4, there were 3,445 active cases, has now zoomed past 10,000 mark. The cases have been on the rise due to spike in cases in eight districts where the situation is worsening. These eight districts have more than 400 active cases and need more efforts to bring the situation under control. The state government has directed officials in the eight districts to step up random sampling and contact tracing. Also, district collectors have been asked to take measures to prevent spread of the virus. The eight districts with more than 400 active cases are Jodhpur (1851), Alwar (1799), Jaipur (1111), Ajmer (622), Bikaner (636), Bharatpur (516), Kota (472) and Pali (462). Nine persons died on Monday taking the state’s toll to 633. Ajmer reported three deaths taking its toll to 38, Bharatpur’s toll reached at 51 following the death of two more persons and four persons died in Bikaner taking its fatalities to 34. Districts which reported new cases are Alwar (247), Jodhpur (184), Jaipur (80), Ajmer (79), Kota (65), Rajsamand (44), Pali (43), Sirohi (42), Barmer (39), Nagaur (38), Jhunjhunu (36), Sikar (33), Bhilwara (26), Jalore (23), Udaipur (22), Bundi (19), Sriganganagar (16), Dholpur (14), Bharatpur (12), Bikaner (11), Banswara (10), Churu (9), Hanumangarh (9), Tonk (8), Chittorgarh (7), Dausa (6), Baran (6), Karauli (4) and Sawai Madhopur (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/active-cases-breach-10k-infections-over-37k/articleshow/77208435.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Madurai||25 candidates in Madurai, Trichy dists appear for Class XII re-exams||Madurai/Trichy: A total of 25 students - 15 in Madurai and 10 in Trichy - appeared for the Class XII board re-exams on Monday. In Madurai, re-exams were held for the students, who were absent for the chemistry/accountancy examination held in March, when the lockdown began. A total of 34,869 students in Madurai district had written their chemistry/accountancy exams when lockdown was in place. About 617 students from across the state had expressed willingness to appear for the re-examination following which the state government decided to conduct the examination. Out of the 21 candidates in Madurai, included 13 private and eight regular candidates, only seven regular and eight private candidates appeared for the exam on Monday. The exams were held in 12 different centres in all four educational districts in Madurai — Usilampatti, Thirumangalam, Madurai and Melur. District education officials said that all precautions, including wearing of masks, temperature screening and hand sanitisation were adhered to. In Ramanathapuram district, 17 candidates wrote their re-exams on Monday at eight centres. In Trichy, a total of five centres were allotted for 13 students - four regular and nine private students for chemistry, accountancy and geography papers. Of the 13, three private students were absent. Trichy district chief education officer, S Shanthi said that a minimum of five staff were appointed in each school. Students were allowed to enter after preliminary screening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/25-candidates-in-madurai-trichy-dists-appear-for-class-xii-re-exams/articleshow/77208434.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Delhi||FIR against Delhi riot accused, wife and lawyer for fake medical certificates||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has booked northeast Delhi riot accused Farooq Faisal, his wife and his lawyer for furnishing fake medical documents prepared by a doctor and his associate to seek an interim bail on medical grounds. The doctor, Gajinder Nayyar, and his associate, Mukesh Sangwan, were recently arrested by the Crime Branch after they were found to be issuing fake medical certificates to criminals so that they could apply for bail on medical grounds. According to the FIR registered, Faisal had tried to get bail four times between March and May. On May 29, Farooq’s lawyer, Mohit Bhardwaj, had submitted the bail application along with the medical papers to the court in which Nayyar had opined that Faisal’s wife, Sadaf (38), was suffering from fibroid of uterus and required surgery. To prove the genuineness of the certificate, Nayyar had mentioned that Sadaf visited his clinic at Bisrakh in Greater Noida five times between April and May. During this, she also went through various medical tests that were approved from a pathological lab and the reports were annexed with the bail application in which it was mentioned that Sadaf had the most extreme urgent case. When a police team reached Nayyar’s clinic to inquire, it was found that it didn’t even have the basic facilities of a doctor’s chamber. When the cops confronted Nayyar, he first tried to evade the question and later claimed that Sangwan had introduced Sadaf to him and asked him to prepare fake medical documents to prove her ailment so that she could ask for a bail for her husband before a court. According to police, the incident indicates a bigger nexus between lawyers, middlemen and doctors. When the lawyer realised that the court had involved police, the bail application was immediately withdrawn the next day, police added in the FIR. Cops found that Delhi Medical Council had earlier found the conduct ofNayyar “highly unbecoming of a medical practitioner” and revoked his name from the State Medical Register till November, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fir-against-riot-accused-wife-lawyer-for-fake-med-certificates/articleshow/77208428.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Jaipur||Amid rising cases, 7-day lockdown imposed in Bundi||Kota: Amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Bundi, the district collector on Monday imposed a 7-day lockdown in the periphery of Bundi municipal council from Monday midnight to August 3. The decision of the lockdown was taken following meeting with the representatives of trade and business organisations of the city on Monday noon. Bundi district, which continued to stay in the green zone throughout, has recently been witnessing spike in corona positive cases. The number of cases stood at 14 on July 1 which shot up to 110 on July 27, however, no fatality has so far been recorded in the district. The Monday morning report revealed 19 cases from various parts of the city. Following discussion with the representatives of various trade and business organisations in the meeting held on Monday amid the rising number of positive cases in the last three days, it was mutually agreed upon to impose a lockdown in Bundi city for seven days from Monday midnight, collector Ashish Gupta said. Barring services for essential commodities, hospitals and medicines, the shops, business establishments and business activities in the markets would stay suspended, however, commercial activities in mills outside the city would continue during the lockdown, he added. Unnecessary movement of people would also remain restricted in the markets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/amid-rising-cases-7-day-lockdown-imposed-in-bundi/articleshow/77208443.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Pratyaya Amrit takes charge as health secretary amid soaring Covid cases||PATNA: Amid the explosion of coronavirus cases in Bihar, the state government on Monday brought in 1991-batch IAS officer Pratyaya Amrit to take the reins of the state health department as its principal secretary. This is the second transfer of the top official in state health department since the Covid-19 pandemic began in Bihar. On May 20, the state government had transferred Sanjay Kumar, a 1990-batch IAS officer, to tourism department as principal secretary and replaced him with Udai Singh Kumawat. Sanjay had been leading the state’s charge against Covid-19 since the virus entered the state. Other than Amrit, four other senior IAS officers got new responsibilities on Monday, while three others got additional charges. Amrit, who is also the energy department’s principal secretary, will continue with the additional charge of principal secretary of disaster management department as well as chairman-cum-managing director of Bihar State Power Holding Company Limited. The newly appointed principal secretary for health emphasized the need for increasing the number of Covid-19 tests in the state as directed by the CM. “I am conscious of the challenges ahead and will try to tackle all issues at the earliest,” Amrit told TOI, adding team work will show results soon. Kumawat, a 1993-batch IAS officer, has been made adviser in the Bihar State Planning Commission. He has also been relieved of the additional charge of director-general of Bihar Institute of Public Administration and Rural Development. Development commissioner Arun Kumar, a 1985-batch IAS officer, will now hold the additional charge of DG, Bihar Institute of Public Administration and Rural Development. Sources said the state government was not happy with Kumawat’s performance as the number of Covid cases kept soaring in the past two months. The state chapter of Indian Medical Association had on Sunday written a letter to the CM and health minister asking for Kumawat’s removal and requested him to bring back Sanjay. As per the notification issued by the general administration department (GAD) on Monday, 1988-batch IAS officer Sudhir Kumar Singh has been made the chief adviser to the Bihar State Planning Board. Sudhir, who was holding the charge of additional chief secretary in the labour resources department, will continue to hold the additional charge of GAD’s vigilance commissioner. The 1993-batch IAS officer, Mihir Kumar Singh, who after returning from the Centre was awaiting posting, has been made principal secretary of the labour resources department. Finance department’s principal secretary S Siddhartha has been given the additional charge of the industries department. As per the GAD notification, industries department secretary Narmdeshwar Lal, a 1998-batch IAS officer, will continue with his responsibilities. The notification further stated that water resources department secretary Sanjeev Hans will hold the additional charge of energy department secretary as well as chairman-cum-managing director of Bihar State Power (Holding) Company Limited. He has been relieved from his additional charges of vigilance commissioner in GAD as well as secretary, health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/amrit-takes-charge-as-health-secy-amid-soaring-covid-cases/articleshow/77207423.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Madurai||‘Man involved in accident died due to police excess’||Tirunelveli: Tense moments prevailed at the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital on Monday after some people attached to a communal outfit protested alleging police excess caused the death of a 40-year-old man, who was involved in a head-on collision with a policeman.Denying the allegation, a police officer said that Shanmugam from Naduvaikurichi village, a contract labourer in the railways was riding his two-wheeler in an inebriated condition at Thirumal Nagar on the Sivalaperi Road in Palayamkottai police station limit around 8.45pm on Saturday. The man, without helmet hit another two-wheeler in which sub-inspector Ayyappan attached to the highway patrol was returning home after duty.While Shanmugam suffered a head injury Ayyappan suffered injuries on his limbs. Seeing the crowd, Naduvaikurichu villagers Thalavai and Thangapandi and others took Shanmugam and Ayyappan to the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. Shanmugam succumbed to injuries on Monday morning.Police said that the death was manipulated by members of a caste outfit who shared rumours on social media that Shanmugam was taken to the station for questioning the day before the accident and tortured. Denying the allegation, police tried explaining to the outfit that there was no foul play in the death, but in vain.The man’s family refused to receive the body and sought a case against the police who allegedly tortured him and other government benefits. They and the protesters were later cleared. Efforts are on to convince the family and the outfit to receive the body on Tuesday to perform the final rites. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-involved-in-accident-died-due-to-police-excess/articleshow/77208444.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Morari Bapu to raise Rs 5 cr for Ram temple in Ayodhya||AHMEDABAD: Noted spiritual leader and exponent of Ram Charit Manas, Morari Bapu, said that his followers will raise a sum of Rs 5 crore for construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. He personally pledged a sum of Rs 5 lakh while speaking at an online religious discourse on Monday. The VHP meanwhile, has collected soil and water from all rivers in the state and four volunteers will carry it to Ayodhya, for the temple’s foundation laying ceremony on August 5. State VHP secretary Ashok Raval said on Monday said that the soil has been collected from 912 temple compounds of the state. Speaking at an online ‘Ram katha’ or sermon, Morari Bapu said he could have asked any one follower to donate the entire sum of Rs 5 crore, but he wanted his followers to contribute collectively. “As a token, I am contributing a sum of five lakh rupees for the cause. With the blessings of Thakorji, we will send a sum of Rs 5 crore for construction of the Ram temple at Ayodhya,” the religious guru said. Speaking online from the Pithoria Hanuman temple, the spiritual leader said, “I got suggestions from a number of my followers and the trust which is constructing the Ram temple has also said that it would like people from across the country to contribute to its construction. We will collect the sum and send it to the temple trust, following all rules and regulations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/morari-bapu-to-raise-rs-5-cr-for-ram-temple/articleshow/77208445.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Madurai||Yoga to ease stress for GRH staff||Madurai: Yoga and meditation sessions are being organised for the staff on duty at the Covid-19 wards of Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) to help ease stress and keep them motivated. The sessions are being organised at hotels where the staff are quarantined after completing their Covid-19 duty. GRH dean Dr J Sangumani said that a separate team has been formed to ensure yoga and meditation sessions are scheduled on a daily basis for the staff. “The sessions are conducted at the hotels so that the staff get refreshed and feel motivated during their stay before returning to work again. Such sessions are much needed when they are facing a lot of stress at work,” he said. The sessions are organised by Dr Nagarani Nachiyar from the department of yoga and naturopathy, GRH. The dean said the initiative has received an overwhelming response from the staff. “Apart from these sessions, prioritising mental health, counselling over telephone is also provided,” said Dr Sangumani.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/yoga-to-ease-stress-for-grh-staff/articleshow/77208447.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Delhi||Industrial pollutants hit water supply in Delhi||NEW DELHI: For the third time in the last five days, the levels of industrial pollutants and ammonia went beyond the acceptable limits in the Yamuna on Monday. It affected the operations at several water treatment plants. A senior DJB official said that the ammonia level started rising on Sunday night and reached more than 1.8 ppm by Monday morning, which is more than double the maximum limit that can be treated in Delhi’s facilities. The water treatment plants at Okhla and Chandrawal were operating at 50% capacity, while 25% operational capacity had been reduced at the Wazirabad plant, the official added. DJB has the capacity to treat ammonia levels up to 0.9 ppm. Raghav Chadha, the vice-chairman of DJB, said that due to an increase in pollutants in raw water discharged from Haryana, the water supply will be affected in parts of west, north, central & south Delhi areas. “We endeavour to restore normal water supply ASAP. Please use water judiciously,” he tweeted. DJB officials blamed the industries in upstream Panipat section of Haryana and low levels of water being released from DSB/CLC canals for the current situation. “In the last three months, around 2,000-3,000 cusecs of water was being released due to which dilution of raw water was happening. Now, less water is being released and industrial pollutants are back in the river water,” said an official. “The plants remained non-operational for a large part of the day due to which overall water production went down. The water pressure will be lower in the evening supply. However, if no problems arise during the night, we can assume normalcy by tomorrow,” the official added. Industrial pollutants and spike in ammonia levels are now a recurring annual phenomenon in the city. “Earlier, these daily problems because of ammonia used to occur only in winters. Industries restarting operations after lockdown has definitely a role to play,” the official said. Another official from the quality control department said: “Untreated industrial waste from Panipat increases levels of chloride, hardness and ammonia in the Yamuna.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/industrial-pollutants-hit-water-supply/articleshow/77208470.cms||Paras Singh
July 28, 2020||Madurai||Support, help pour in for tea seller Tamilarasan from Alanganallur||Madurai: Congratulatory messages and offers of support are pouring in for Tamilarasan, a tea seller in Alanganallur near Madurai who spends a part of his earnings to feed the needy. From begging in streets to selling tea on a bicycle and helping the needy with food with the money he earned, life has come to a full circle for him. While a few have come forward with financial help, a couple of people offered him jobs. He has got a call from a manager of an MNC offering him a job with a take home salary of Rs 27,000. He will have to undergo a training course. “I have received more than 60 phone calls in the last couple of days expressing congratulation and support. At least 40 of them have assured me with some sort of help. I am highly motivated to do more for society now,” Tamilarasan said. He no longer feels lonely with the overwhelming support and help he got. But, he is equally confused. “People are asking me what I am going to do next. Actually, I am confused a lot. If I get into a job, I may become a selfish person taking care of just myself. I want to set up a tea shop-cum-eatery, where food can be served free of cost for the poor. Money can be collected only from those who can afford it. But I do not know how to implement it,” he said. Tamilarasan’s ultimate aim is to set up a farm, where he can rear cattle for milk and use it for his tea shop. When he shared his idea to a few callers, they supported him. A man from Coimbatore said that he can use a piece of land belonging to him without any payment towards lease till he can manage on his own. “I have not decided anything. I am very clear that I should choose something at the earliest to set things in motion. Suddenly, there is a big responsibility on my shoulders,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/support-help-pour-in-for-tea-seller-tamilarasan-from-alanganallur/articleshow/77208455.cms||V Devanathan
July 28, 2020||Bareilly||Man hangs self after wife refuses to return home||Bareilly: A man died by suicide in Hayatnagar of Sambhal on Monday, allegedly after he failed to convince his wife to return home from her maternal house, where she had been living ever since a domestic dispute between the two. He was found hanging from the ceiling fan in his room. According to the family, the deceased had been repeatedly requesting his wife to return home over the phone, and had even visited his in-laws place, but had failed to convince his wife to accompany him back. In despair, he took the extreme step, his family alleged. The deceased has been identified has Amit Sharma (30). According to the police, there was a long running dispute between the husband and wife. On Monday, Amit took his friend and went to his in-laws place in Tajpur, Bijnor, to bring his wife back, but the latter refused to return. After returning home, Amit went to his room, locked himself in and committed suicide. Sources close to the family said Amit had repeatedly requested his wife Pooja to return, but she refused. Some days ago, Amit had made a failed attempt to kill himself due to the same reason. He was undergoing stress ever since the dispute between the couple started. He is survived by his wife and four-month-old daughter. According to Hayatnagar police, the body has been sent for post mortem. No case has been registered against anyone in the incident as of now, but an investigation has been ordered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-hangs-self-after-wife-refuses-to-return-home/articleshow/77203554.cms||Maria Khan
July 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Member of committee for BA in Sanskrit resigns||Ahmedabad: A member of the committee formed for looking after the curriculum of Bachelors in Arts programme for Sanskrit language at Gujarat University put in his papers on Monday after the committee failed to meet even once in the two years of its formation. Pracheta Pandya, Sanksrit professor at RS Patel Arts and Commerce College tendered her resignation to the vice-chancellor of the varsity, said sources. The committee chairman, Kamlesh Choksi, the head of department for Sanskrit language studies in GU, has not called a single meeting of its members which is why she decided to step down, sources added. With her resignation, the plight of the department has come to light, according to sources. “There is no point in being a member of a council for three years where decisions are to be made on arbitrary basis without ever calling upon the members for a meeting,” she said in a letter sent to the chief minister as well. “I am not prepared to be part of a team that can be held responsible for the worsening plight of Sanskrit,” she added in her resignation letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/member-of-committee-for-ba-in-sanskrit-resigns/articleshow/77208456.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Madurai||Madurai crosses 10,000 cases, situation stable, say officials||Madurai: With 249 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday, Madurai became the fourth district in the state to cross 10,000 cases. However, district health officials asserted that rise in cases in Madurai has stabilized as the number of active cases at present is around 2,000. Speaking to TOI, the monitoring officer for Madurai district, B Chandramohan said that compared to other districts, which are witnessing a gradual rise in cases, the cases have been successfully stabilized in Madurai. “A week ago, active cases were at 4,000, now it has come down to 2,000, which is a 50% decline. Further, the positivity has also similarly dropped from 18% to 8% now,” he said. Data showed that while it took 94 days for to record 1,000 Covid-19 cases, for every 1,000 cases after that, it took less only around five days or less. “Even as fresh cases are being reported, the active cases have been coming down. Now, we also have more than enough vacant beds as well for patients who require them,” said Chandramohan. District health officials attributed targeted testing and fever clinics for bringing Covid-19 cases under control. However, what is concerning is the Covid-19 death rate in Madurai. With 216 casualties so far, the death rate is at 2.15%, which is higher than the state average and Chennai’s death rate of 2.12%. In fact, just within two days, the death rate rose by 0.5%. According to data from district health department, of the 1,952 active cases in the district, 392 are at Covid-19 care centres, 292 are under home isolation whereas 1,078 are hospitalised. With only moderate and severe Covid-19 patients now being hospitalised, more number of people are now in hospitals than under home isolation or at Covid-19 care centres. Health officials said that this could point towards the current higher death rate. On Monday, a total of 3,221 samples were tested, of which 249 tested positive for Covid-19. During the past week, around 3,000-4,500 samples were tested every day. With some samples sent to other districts for processing, there used to be backlogs of up to 2,000. However, as on Monday, there were no pending results and testing was up to date, Chandramohan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-crosses-10000-cases-situation-stable-say-officials/articleshow/77208482.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
July 28, 2020||Madurai||Body of fisher who drowned in harbour found after 4 days||Kanyakumari: The decomposed body of one of the two fishermen who drowned in the Thengapattanam fishing harbour last week was spotted about a kilometre away on Monday. However confusion prevailed on whether it was the body of Antony, 68, from Mulloorthurai village, who drowned on Thursday evening or that of Shibu, 25, of Marthandanthurai village, who drowned on Friday evening.The two were victims of the rough waves that were 10-15ft high at the entrance of the Thengapattanam harbour. Antony was returning to the harbour on his catamaran around 5.30pm on Thursday when a wave overturned their boat and subsequent waves made it difficult to rescue him. In a similar incident, Shibu drowned with four others on Friday.More than 50 fishermen have been searching for the two men while divers engaged in collecting pearls were used to spot if the bodies were stuck between rocks near the harbour. “Around 10.15am on Monday, Mulloorthurai fishermen found a bloated body floating with the face unidentifiable, as it was decomposed,” said activist P Dickson.It was lifted on a boat with fishing net and brought to Thengapattanam shore. A doctor who had a look at it said it looked like the body of a youth. Kin of the men and representatives of the respective village parish committees reached the spot. Autopsy could not be performed due to confusion over identifying the deceased.“We have unanimously decided to search for the second body too on Tuesday so that identification would be easier. If we are unable to find the second body, the body that has been found will be subjected to DNA test,” said Marthandanthurai parish secretary, Jaisingh George.Kin of the deceased along with South Asian Fishermen Fraternity (SAFF) general secretary Churchil petitioned the chief minister through the district collector seeking compensation of Rs 20 lakh each to the families of the two men. Their demands also included government job for a kin of the deceased based on their educational qualification.“Negligence by the fisheries department and district administration by not desilting the heaps of sand at the harbour caused their deaths. Huge waves were formed after hitting the piles of silt at the harbour. Repeated demands to clear the silt had been in vain,” said Churchil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/body-of-fisher-who-drowned-in-harbour-found-after-4-days/articleshow/77208484.cms||M K Ananth
July 28, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Elderly woman assaulted by robbers shifted to ICU||BHUBANESWAR: The 70-year-old woman who was assaulted by two robbers inside her house in IRC Village area under Nayapalli police limits on Sunday has been admitted in the ICU of a private hospital here as her condition worsened on Monday. Two unidentified criminals had barged into her house in the N-4 area when she was alone at home, on the pretext of taking her house on rent. They fled after robbing her and attacking her with a knife. Among the woman’s injuries were broken teeth, fractures on fingers of both hands, and stab wounds on her face. “My wife is serious. The goons did not consider her advanced age and attacked her brutally. She had to get multiple stitches on her face. Her hands have been injured. Both ears were bleeding as the robbers pulled off her earrings. Doctors will keep her in the ICU for 72 hours,” said her husband, Chakrapani Mishra (75). Mishra had gone out to buy vegetables when the two men entered his house at around 10 am on Sunday and attacked his wife. The elderly couple live on their own in their two-storey building in the posh Nayapalli area. While they live on the first floor, the ground floor is rented out to a family. The couple’s son lives in the US and the daughter in London. Police said their investigation into the case was under way. “Two teams were formed on Sunday to crack the Nayapalli case, as well as the snatchings in Kharavel Nagar,” deputy commissioner of police Uma Shankar Dash said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/elderly-woman-assaulted-by-robbers-shifted-to-icu/articleshow/77205757.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
July 28, 2020||Madurai||1,993 cases, 21 deaths in south TN; 566 +ves in central dists||Madurai/ Trichy: The 10 southern districts of the state reported 1,993 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday taking the tally to 43,582, which includes 14,970 active cases. The number of people discharged after recovery has climbed to 28,053. Twenty-one more deaths on Monday have taken the toll to 559. Meanwhile, the central region of the state crossed 11,000 cases with the emergence of 566 new cases in the eight districts on Monday. With this, the region’s tally has climbed to 11,072. The state bulletin also added two more Covid-19 deaths taking the toll to 119. Madurai with 10,057 cases became the first district in the south to cross 10,000 cases. The district is the 4th in the state after Chennai (95,857), Chengalpattu (12,717) and Thiruvallur (12,320) to register more than 10,000 cases. Tuticorin (349) recorded the highest number of cases on Monday, followed by Virudhunagar (338), Theni (280), Madurai (249), Kanyakumari (239), Tirunelveli (191), and Dindigul (133). Virudhunagar (6,302) is the second after Madurai to cross 6,000 cases. Theni (4,053) crossed 4,000 cases and has the 4th highest total Covid-19 cases in the region. Tenkasi with 1,794 cases continues with less than 2,000 cases. Madurai and Virudhunagar districts each reported six deaths. Other districts that reported Covid-19 deaths are Tenkasi (3), Ramanathapuram (2), Sivagangai (2), Theni (1) and Dindigul (1). At least five of the Covid-19 deaths reported in the region were suffering from chronic kidney disease. Overall death rare in the region is 1.28%. In the central region, a 79-year-old man from Trichy and a 60-year-old man from Nagappattinam died at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy and government headquarters hospital in Nagappattinam on July 26. Most of the positive cases were from Trichy and Thanjavur. While Trichy recorded 188 cases, Thanjavur registered 153 cases. The total positive cases in Trichy and Thanjavur were 3,604 and 2,160. Trichy (59) also had the highest number of casualties in the region. Pudukottai also started reporting more number of Covid-19 cases daily. The district recorded 98 cases on Monday. The district health officials said that cases were reported from various parts of the district and over one third of them were contacts of those who tested positive. The total district tally is 1,715. Covid-19 cases were also reported in Tiruvarur (67), Ariyalur (48), Perambalur (21), Nagapattinam (22), and Karur (7).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/1993-cases-21-deaths-in-south-tn-566-ves-in-central-dists/articleshow/77208467.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Bareilly||Don’t post pics or videos of animals before or after Eid sacrifice: Clerics||Bareilly: Jamat Raza-e-Mustafa, a 101-year-old organisation of Dargah Aala Hazrat, has urged people not to click or post photographs of animals before or after sacrifice on the occasion of the upcoming Eid-ul-Adha festival. Clerics said the appeal has been made as posting of such photographs could hurt the sentiments of other communities.National vice-president of Jamat Raza-e-Mustafa, Salman Hasan Khan, said, “The festival of Eid-ul-Adha will be celebrated on August 1 which coincides with the weekly lockdown in Uttar Pradesh. We have been flooded with queries from people on sacrifice. We have released guidelines to assist them. We have asked people to refrain from posting any picture or video before or after Eid sacrifice on social media. Posting pictures is against Sharia and it could hurt sentiments of other communities.”Among the other appeals made by them are to maintain social distancing during Eid sacrifice and not to sacrifice animals at public places. The clerics said there is no restriction on purchase of animals for sacrifice but the animal sellers and buyers should consider social distancing amid lockdown. The clerics said once sacrifice is done, the waste should be properly disposed of by burying it in a pit. The meat should be distributed only when it is covered well.Meanwhile, All India Raza Action Committee sent a memorandum to UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath to make arrangements for the festival as the Eid sacrifice will be for three days from August 1 - the first two days will be on weekend lockdown.In his memorandum to the CM, Maulana Adnan Raza Qadri said, “Most of the people are unable to do sacrifice on their own and they need assistance. The people who do sacrifice should not be prevented from commuting. The meat is distributed among the poor and those who are distributing the meat by wearing masks and maintaining social distancing should not be stopped.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dont-post-pics-or-videos-of-animals-before-or-after-eid-sacrifice-clerics/articleshow/77203577.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
July 28, 2020||Mysuru||Farmers to campaign against purchase of agricultural land by firms||Mysuru: Villages on the outskirts of Mysuru which have seen a boom in real estate will soon put up billboards which say ‘No land is available.’ Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sene activists have decided to take up a massive campaign against purchase of agriculture lands by corporate firms and capitalists. They have decided to launch the campaign on August 8, the day when Mahatma Gandhi launched the Quit India Movement in 1942 demanding the end of British rule in India. Association president Badagalapura Nagendra said, activists will erect notice boards at the entrance of villages. “The notice boards will say that no land is available for sale in the village and corporate companies and capitalists are banned from entering. The association has activists in all villages in the state and they have been given the responsibility to erect the notice boards in front of their villages,” he said. Nagendra said all their activists will take an oath that they will not allow capitalists to purchase land in villages. “It is a continuous campaign against corporate companies to save farmers’ land and livelihood,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/farmers-to-campaign-against-purchase-of-agricultural-land-by-firms/articleshow/77203992.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC: Low revenue no reason for not giving funds for salaries||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Monday told the AAP government that its depleting revenue could not be given as the reason to not release funds to the municipal corporations to pay their staff salaries. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan told the state government to find a solution and come prepared with a roadmap on August 10. The court’s comments came after the government submitted that during Covid-19, its revenues had gone down. “That (revenue depletion) cannot be an answer. Solution has to be found. Figure it out and give us a solution,” the bench said, underlining that sanitation workers and doctors could not be made to wait on this ground. The court was hearing an application moved by North Delhi Municipal Corporation seeking Rs 90.6 crore payable as grant-in-aid under the sanitation/urban development head for the first quarter ending on June 30. It added that Rs 181 crore under the same head for the second quarter was also due. In its application filed through advocate Mini Pushkarna, the municipal corporation informed the court that the funding would enable it to pay salaries to safai karamcharis and related sanitation activities. The application had been filed in a pending writ petition seeking directions to Delhi government and the municipal corporations to pay the salaries with arrears to sanitation workers employed by them. In its plea, the north corporation said that expenditure towards the salary till May 2020, sanitation services and providing PPE kits, including gloves, masks and sanitisers, to the workers had been incurred by it from its internal resources. It added that Delhi government had not been releasing grant-in-aid payments timely under the category of health, and it released around Rs 27.6 crore under the health plan only on July 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-low-revenue-no-reason-for-not-giving-funds-for-salaries/articleshow/77208509.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Hubballi||In North K’taka, teachers reach out to students at their doorstep||Hubballi: Experts and stakeholders in the education sector have pointed out that online education will only accentuate the divide between the privileged and the impoverished students. Moreover, poor or non-existent internet connectivity in rural areas has further legitimised the case of those opposed to the move. Against such a backdrop, teachers of government schools are reaching out to students at their homes and on streets, which are turning into classrooms. Headmaster of Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya in Siddapur, Karatgi taluk in Koppal district Chandrashekhar Ganawari told STOI that the institution had rolled out the ‘school in street’ programme to teach kids left behind because of their economic situation and by dint of staying in remote areas. “Our school is a residential institution, and the students are mostly from around 20 villages in Gangavathi taluk. Majority of them do not have smartphones, and the villages do not boast net connectivity. Our teachers are conducting classes on the streets of Sulekal, Huli Haidar and Bhattara Narasapur villages two days a week. In Siddapur, we are holding classes in the evening each day. Students are being given homework, and we are following up on their progress over the phone,” Ganawari said. The Koppal school is not the only institution in North Karnataka that is taking education to the children. As many as nine teachers of the Government Higher Primary School in Okali in Kamalapur taluk in Kalaburagi district have been conducting classes on roads, temples and community halls, all the while adhering to the safety norms prescribed by the government. Somu Kudarihal, a teacher at the Government Lower Primary School in Laxmi Camp, Kuntoji in Koppal, fortunate to have 20 students at the camp, is teaching all of them using the Devara Katte in the locality. Hanamant Katarki, upset with seeing students frittering away their time, decided to make visits to the homes of 100 children in Kengalagutti village in Vijayapura district, where he has been taking classes at their doorstep. Katarki makes it a point to stay outside the homes, careful to take utmost caution to keep the Covid-19 infection at bay. ‘Such initiatives most welcome’ Many parents do not have smartphones, and may not have the technical knowhow to get their children to participate in online classes. In such a scenario, efforts by teachers are most welcome. The government must take cognisance of these attempts and try to device an alternative to deal with the prevailing situation. - BR Gangappanavar | Retired deputy director of public instructio||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/in-north-ktaka-teachers-reach-out-to-students-at-their-doorstep/articleshow/77186828.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
July 28, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Two men held for raping, impregnating minor girl||VIRUDHUNAGAR: A 15-year-old girl with learning difficulties was raped repeatedly by two men, including her relative, in Virudhunagar district. The incident came to light on Monday, when a complaint was filed by her parents at the Virudhunagar all women police station. The accused have been identified as P Pandi, 42, and D Ganesan, 33. While Ganesan is the girl’s relative, Pandi, a tailor, is Ganesan's friend. They were arrested on Monday after registering a case under various sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act including Section- 6 (aggravated sexual assault) and 5 (k) - (taking advantage of child's mental health and committing sexual assault) 5 (J) - (relative of the child committing sexual assault). According to the police, the girl developed health issues a few days ago and was taken to hospital. Doctors informed her parents that she was pregnant and asked them to report to the local police immediately. Following this, a complaint was registered. A team led by an inspector began an investigation the same day and the two were arrested. They were produced before a judicial magistrate and lodged in a prison. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/two-men-held-for-raping-impregnating-minor-girl/articleshow/77208496.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Sudden rain brings relief in fortnight of heat & humidity||Bhubaneswar: A sudden bout of rain on Monday broke a 15-day dry spell in the capital city and provided some relief from the scorching heat of the past few days. “I think the rain gods listened to our prayer as the heat was getting unbearable. The city had seen some rain about 15 days ago. The heat and the humidity had made life miserable,” said Monalisa Pani, a college student. July for the most part seemed to be an extension of the peak summer months. With no sign of rain and the prevailing hot and humid weather, people stuck at home were getting increasingly irritated with the discomfort. Although the southwest monsoon had reached the state on time and covered the districts earlier than usual, it lost some of its force along the way, leading to deficit rainfall in around 11 districts. Besides, the high humidity levels made life difficult. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said the monsoon would remain weak for the next couple of days and would revive after that. However, thunderstorm and rainfall activities are likely in several districts of the state in the next couple of days. “As we predicted earlier, the monsoon will be very weak between July 24 and 27 over Odisha. The same is being observed now,” said H R Biswas, director of IMD’s Bhubaneswar centre. Light to moderate rain or thundershowers are likely to occur at many places over the districts of north interior Odisha and a few places over the rest of the state, the latest bulletin of the IMD said. Thunderstorm with lightning is very likely to occur at one or two places over the districts of Jharsuguda, Sundargarh, Deogarh, Sambalpur, Keonjhar, Mayurbhanj, Angul, Dhenkanal, Cuttack, Balasore, Gajapati, Ganjam, Kandhamal, Nayagarh and Khurda in the next 24 hours. “It has been long since the city last got a good drenching. The sweltering heat is unbearable and it is forcing us to keep the AC on throughout the day. This year, summer was more pleasant than the rainy season,” said Satrupa Panda, a homemaker and a resident of Bhubaneswar. The capital recorded a relative humidity of 95% while the twin cities of Cuttack and Bhubaneswar recorded maximum temperature of 37.2°C on Monday. IMD sources said Odisha had recorded 458 mm rainfall since the onset of monsoon on June 1, as against a normal of 511 mm. There has been no rainfall in the state in the past 24 hours, except in a few places. The highest rainfall of the past 24 hours was recorded in Rayagada (43mm).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/sudden-rain-brings-relief-in-fortnight-of-heat-humidity/articleshow/77205857.cms||Minati Singha
July 28, 2020||Madurai||CM gives appointment order to relative of Sathankulam victims||Chennai: Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami handed over the appointment order for a government job on compassionate grounds to J Persis, 34, the eldest daughter P Jeyaraj, 58, and sister of J Beniks, 31, who died after being tortured by the Sathankulam police.Persis has been appointed as a junior assistant in the revenue department, Tuticorin district.“The CM expressed his condolences over the death of my father and brother and promised to get the guilty responsible for their deaths punished,” Persis told reporters at the secretariat after receiving the appointment order on Monday. Stating that the CBI is probing the murders, she expressed confidence that the state government and the judiciary will ensure justice to them.She also thanked the government for the job, the public, media, political parties, representatives of different communities and traders for standing with them and helping them in the fight for justice. Information and publicity minister Kadambur C Raju, Srivaikuntam MLA S P Shanmuganathan, chief secretary K Shanmugam and Tuticorin district collector Sandeep Nanduri were also present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cm-gives-appointment-order-to-relative-of-sathankulam-victims/articleshow/77208511.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Nagpur||Lockdown-hit auto driver hangs self||Nagpur: In what could be the first casualty of the extreme economic crisis among autorickshaw drivers, a 22-year-old man committed suicide on Sunday over loss of daily income for more than four months.Rinkesh Mahapulkar, a resident of Wanadongri on Hingna road, ended life by hanging self in his house on Sunday. He was under severe stress after family members reprimanded him for not driving autorickshaw to earn money.Rinkesh had not taken out the autorickshaw due to lockdown restrictions in the wake of coronavirus threat for more than three months and absence of passengers on Hingna road. According to police, he was staying with his elder brother and mother. They had reprimanded him for not going out and wasting his time at home.MIDC police have registered a case of accidental death and are investigating further. The body has been sent for postmortem.Thousands of autorickshaw drivers in the city are reeling under huge financial crisis because of loss of daily income due to the coronavirus scare and subsequent lockdown. Many of them are forced to default on the EMIs of the loans they had availed to purchase autorickshaw. In the absence of any income from plying the auto, many autorickshaw drivers have converted their three-wheelers into mobile vegetable shops to earn bread for their family. Left with no income, Vidarbha Autorickshaw Chalak Federation through president Vilas Bhalekar has already approached the high court and sought financial aid from the government for the period from March 23 when the Covid-induced restrictions came into force.According to Bhalekar’s petition, over one lakh people are engaged in plying autorickshaws to feed their families. Thus nearly five lakh persons have been hit severely due to loss of earnings which has also led to default on loan repayments, house rent, electricity and water charges.The situation has gone from bad to worse. If the government does not intervene immediately and offers financial assistance, many more auto drivers may take the drastic step. “Each auto driver’s family should get financial assistance of Rs10,000 besides waiver of interest on loan EMIs,” Bhalekar had demanded in the recently-held first sub-committee meeting of Transport Task Force created by the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lockdown-hit-auto-driver-hangs-self/articleshow/77207487.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 28, 2020||Madurai||GRH staff express concern over large number of patient attenders||Madurai: After nearly 40 hospital staff, including doctors and nurses at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) tested positive, concerns have been raised against patient attenders who move in and out of the hospital, which is a hotbed for Covid-19 spread. Despite restrictions in place, the staff said that attenders still pose a risk for Covid-19 spread in the hospital. “Footfall of attenders, even with restrictions, is still high. Even if it is only one attender per patient, the number is still in hundreds. When such a large number of people are constantly on the move, from inside to outside the hospital, there is a risk of spread of infection through them since not all can be expected to follow all precautions. They could easily be asymptomatic carriers. Common toilets could also lead to spread,” said a doctor on condition of anonymity. GRH staff complained that many attenders find ways to slip in unnoticed without any concern of possibly being carriers of Covid-19. Hospital sources said that more number of staff are being roped in for Covid-19 duty as bed capacity was recently stepped up. With more patients and attenders coming in every day, the viral load may have increased, fear the staff. “It is upsetting to see healthcare personnel at GRH testing Covid-19 positive. Attenders must be restricted and police security should be increased, especially near Covid-19 wards to prevent them from wandering carelessly. This is for the safety of both patients and hospital staff,” said Dr K Senthil, state president, Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association (TNGDA). GRH dean Dr J Sangumani said that all possible measures are being taken to prevent the spread of Covid-19 among the staff. “Only limited number of staff have tested positive. We are restricting attenders as much as possible by issuing passes and enforcing police security. All staff in Covid-19 wards are provided PPEs and quarantined in hotels,” he said. Police sources said that a temporary shelter has been erected near the Covid-19 speciality hospital and a team is deputed round-the-clock to keep the crowd in check.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/grh-staff-express-concern-over-large-number-of-patient-attenders/articleshow/77208512.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
July 28, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Ganjam spells out norms to check virus spread from shops||Berhampur: The Ganjam district administration on Monday asked shopkeepers to adopt five strategies to curb further spread of the virus and help in contact tracing of the positive persons, as the number of Covid-19 cases breached the 9,000-mark in Ganjam district with the detection of 491 new patients and deaths touching 82 with three more succumbing to the disease. Described as “Panchasutra”, the strategies include double barricades in front of shops, use of masks by both customers and shop-keepers and strict enforcement of “No mask, No goods” norm, circle for customers to ensure social distancing, sanitisation/handwashing and maintaining a contact diary of customers. “We have asked all the shopkeepers to follow the Panchasutra to contain the further spread of the coronavirus. Action will be taken against those shop-keepers who violate the direction,” said district collector Vijay Amruta Kulange. The district administration has taken the step suspecting the shops to be responsible for the spread of the killer virus because a number of people visit the place for shopping, particularly in the bazaar areas. Earlier, the district administration increased the fine amount to Rs 5000 for the shop-keepers, who violate the social distancing norms. Shop-keepers will be fined Rs 5,000 and the shop will be closed for 15 days for first violation of Covid social distancing norms. The shop will be closed for a month and FIR registered against the shop-keeper if it is found violating the norm for the second time. The administration has also decided to launch a campaign for health screening of the shop-keepers. “The shop will be closed for about one month if the owner of the outlet is found to be Covid-19 positive,” sources added. “Except contact diary, all other strategies have already been implemented by the traders, as the district administration instructed them so from time to time,” said president of Odisha Byabyasai Mahasangh (OBM) Ch Rabindra Nath. He said maintaining a contact diary in the outlets is not possible for a shop-keeper as many people visit the shop. “Also there is no guarantee that the customer discloses his correct identity to the shopkeeper while he is shopping,” said Nath. Despite the fact, we would ask the traders to follow the instructions of the district administration in the larger interest of the society, he added. The OBM president appealed to the administration not to take stringent action against the traders by imposing heavy penalties. “During the pandemic period, the traders are playing a crucial role in the supply of essential commodities,” he said. He urged the government to declare the traders as Covid warriors on a par with the other frontline workers like doctors, nurses, police persons, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/ganjam-spells-out-norms-to-check-virus-spread-from-shops/articleshow/77205825.cms||Hrusikesh Mohanty
July 28, 2020||Pune||Sangvi woman detained for killing 4-year-old daughter||PUNE: A 30-year-old woman from Sangvi was detained on Monday for allegedly killing her four-year-old daughter by banging her head on the floor of their house. The incident occurred when the woman was alone in the house with her daughter and six-month-old son. Senior inspector Ranganath Unde the Sangvi police told TOI, “The woman told us that she killed her daughter as the latter was annoying her.” Unde said the neighbours told the police that the woman was under stress. “After the incident came to light, the girl was taken to a hospital where she was pronounced dead by the doctors. We have detained the woman. Our probe is on,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sangvi-woman-detained-for-killing-4-year-old-daughter/articleshow/77207492.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Jaipur||Guv to Gehlot: 21-day notice tocall House, unless for trust vote||Jaipur: Declaring “Raj Bhavan has no intention to not call the (assembly) session”, Rajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra Monday directed the Ashok Gehlot cabinet to submit a fresh request based on his “three-point advice”, including a “clear notice of 21 days” to convene the House, unless it spells out it wants to seek a trust vote. “Going by its statements in print and electronic media, it appears the state government wants to call the assembly session to bring a confidence motion, but there is no mention of it in the proposal it has sent. If it wants to seek a confidence vote, it can become a reasonable basis for calling the session at short notice,” the governor’s office said. Sources said the government’s fresh proposal could be for a session at a week’s notice, albeit without committing to a trust vote. Governor Mishra’s rider for a session “at short notice” comes two days after the Gehlot government put in a “revised” cabinet proposal to convene the House to discuss the ongoing pandemic, take stock of the state’s finances and pass some bills. Besides giving a 21-day notice, the “points” that the cabinet now needs to comply with include video-recording and live telecast of the House proceedings if the government chooses to go for a trust vote. The vote of confidence should be in yes-or-no format only, the governor's directive states. The government must also commit in writing that social distancing norms will be adhered to during the session. On CM Gehlot’s insistence on a special assembly session this week itself, the governor suggested that explicitly stating its intention to seek a trust vote would be a valid ground to convene the House at short notice. AICC general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan, Avinash Pande, said, “In the past 70 years, it has never happened that a majority government seeking an assembly session was denied this constitutional right. The governor is creating different hurdles for not calling the assembly session. A new tradition of denying constitutional rights is being set.” New PCC chief and minister Govind Singh Dotasra said, “This will be the 5th session of the present state assembly. The four sessions held earlier were convened by the same governor at notices of less than 10 days. The 21-day notice period was not followed in any of those instances. So, why is the governor insisting on this condition now? Everyone understands why.” Accusing the governor of “behaving like a political party”, Dotasra said, “He is resorting to unconstitutional methods.” The Gehlot government had submitted its first formal request for an assembly session to Raj Bhavan last Thursday, at which the governor posed six questions and asked for a revised cabinet proposal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/guv-to-gehlot-21-day-notice-tocall-house-unless-for-trust-vote/articleshow/77208516.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 28, 2020||Madurai||DMK MLA tests positive in Kanyakumari||Kanyakumari: Nagercoil DMK MLA, N Suresh Rajan on Monday tested positive for Covid-19 and was shifted to the Kanyakumari Medical College Hospital in Asaripallam for treatment. He is the second MLA in the district after Killiyoor Congress MLA S Rajesh Kumar to test positive for the viral infection. Kumar tested positive on Sunday and was taken to the same hospital. It is learnt that a DMK functionary in Nagercoil town who was moving closley with the MLA tested positive a couple of days ago. Though Rajan was asymptomatic, samples were collected from him on Monday morning as he was a contact. Health department officials are in the process of tracing the MLAs’ close contacts. Nagercoil municipality workers were in the process of disinfecting the locality near the district collectorate where Rajan’s residence is located.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dmk-mla-tests-positive-in-kanyakumari/articleshow/77208513.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Woman ends life, family blames corona anxiety||KOLKATA: A 66-year-old woman, who had been under mental stress over the ongoing Corona pandemic and undergoing psychiatric treatment, was found dead just outside the compound of the six-storey apartment in Dum Dum where she was staying, barely 15 minutes after she went up to the terrace for a morning walk on Monday. While police suspected the woman, Alpana Das, had ended her life, an unnatural death case was registered. According to a local sources, Das’s daughter lived on a second-floor flat of the apartment off Devinibas Sarai near Dum Dum Motijhil College, where the elderly woman had been staying for the past couple of weeks. “The Covid-19 pandemic had put her in a state of constant anxiety. She didn’t let any of the family members, including my father-in-law, to step out of their house, petrified that someone or the other would contract the virus,” said her son-in-law Shouvic Das. “The stress led to depression. Seeing her condition, we brought her to our Dum Dum apartment a couple of weeks ago, but she still succumbed to her fears of the novel coronavirus.” After she started staying with her daughter, Das reportedly would not let Shouvic, an employee of the state fisheries department, go to office. “We contacted a local psychiatrist and had a video-consultation for her treatment last week. We were following the instructions advised by the psychiatrist and she was undergoing treatment. But we never imagined this tragedy would take place,” Shouvic said. Around 8 on Monday, Das went up to the terrace for a walk, like usual. “Unlike on other days, when other residents also go for walks on the terrace, she was apparently alone on Monday morning. Suddenly, we heard a loud thud and we looked out to find the woman lying in front of our apartment, blood-spattered” said Suranjana Bose, a resident of the apartment. The woman was taken to a private hospital at Dum Dum’s Nagerbazar, where she was declared brought dead. Police later sent the body for an autopsy. “Prima facie, the woman appears to have committed suicide. She was undergoing treatment. An unnatural death case has been initiated and we are also waiting for the post-mortem report to know the exact cause of her death,” said a senior officer from the Barrackpore commissionerate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/woman-ends-life-family-blames-corona-anxiety/articleshow/77207512.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
July 28, 2020||Nagpur||Fancy ‘full antibody test’ of no use, ask for specific IgG||Nagpur: ‘Congratulations! You are eligible for 60% discount on full antibody check-up and free consultation,’ or ‘get antibody worth Rs2,200 done at only Rs799,’ or ‘Full antibody check-up to be sure about Covid-19’ and much more. We all have been receiving many such messages, emails and social media alerts since antibody testing for Covid-19 became popular. However, not every antibody test can make sure that you have already developed antibodies against novel coronavirus, renowned doctors and experts told TOI.“There are two specific antibody types — IgM antibodies and IgG antibodies. Out of these, IgG are mostly found after someone has recovered from the infection. They generally start appearing after two weeks of onset of infection, and last for more than six months. So, ICMR has allowed labs to conduct the IgG antibody tests,” said hematologist Dr DR Sandeep Warghade, director of Starlabs.In short, the fancy ‘full antibody test’ can bring out a record of all types of antibodies present in the subject but they don’t give a separate report of IgG and IgM antibodies. So, someone having IgM antibodies may get a positive result, which may give false sense of security about Covid-19. “For IgG antibody testing, ICMR has approved only three manufacturers till now. Two of them are from foreign countries and one is from Gujarat. These kits are specialized and hence cost more. But, general antibody tests are cheaper,” said Warghade. Only select labs in Nagpur have these kits.Dr Vinky Rughwani, vice-president of Maharashtra Medical Council, said that wrong sense of security from Covid-19 can bring surge in infections. “IgG antibody test for Covid-19 is the best way to know whether you have been infected and cured on the basis of your own immunity. Testing positive in this means you are already cured and now safe. But, specific IgG test must be done. We have noticed that some labs are using this to make money and conducting general antibody tests,” he said.Human immune system produces antibodies to defend itself from an infection. If a person gets infected with Covid-19, immune system produces specific antibodies. Only IgG antibody test can detect these antibodies. In Nagpur, divisional health department is conducting antibody tests of 2,500-plus people in different localities to get an idea of Covid-19 spread. Initially, 6% results of antibody tests are positive.Ask For IgG Antibody Test- It’s a serological test — means test is on blood samples - Sample of blood is collected by either a finger prick or with a needle- It examine proteins in bloodstream- It finds out whether an individual has been infected with Covid-19- It can give results in under an hour- Cost differs between Rs950 and Rs1,500 — as per lab, kits etc - Allowed in Maharashtra at registered hospitals and labs||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fancy-full-antibody-test-of-no-use-ask-for-specific-igg/articleshow/77207495.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 28, 2020||Nagpur||Kamptee case highlights perils of delayed testing||Nagpur: The death of a 57-year old tailoring contractor with the army who lived in Kamptee cantonment is being seen as a case of delayed testing. A private hospital continued to treat only symptoms until his condition worsened.A resident of Gora Bazaar area of the cantonment died in a day after he had tested positive. He could not survive even until the ambulance reached his home leading to angst among citizens. A meeting was held with the district authorities on Tuesday with residents demanding a probe.The daughter of the deceased shared a prescription of Sneha Clinic in Kamptee where the man was undergoing treatment as an outpatient since July 19. “Even as the fever remained, the doctor asked for a Covid test only on July 23. The result was out by July 24 evening. The next day he died,” she told TOI.“Had the Covid test been advised earlier, we may have begun prompt treatment,” said the daughter who has been detected positive too.Dr Rajesh Dipani, who treated the deceased, said he had advised the patients’ relatives to get tested on the very first day. However, he was not sure whether the patient had first reported at his clinic on July 19 or 23. The prescription however is dated July 19.On this the doctor said that if a patient’s oxygen level is below 95, a written advice is given. Otherwise, the patients are verbally asked to get the test done. In this case, the prescription shows oxygen level of 98. Dipani insists in any case he had asked the patient to get tested the very first day. The daughter denies it.Arvind Hinge, tehsildar of Hingna, accepted that prompt reporting of such cases should be done and patients should be advised to get tested early. The tests happen at two government hospitals in Kamptee. Hinge said reporting from private doctors has improved. However, even people are hiding facts. Due to fear of getting quarantined, people are not getting ailments like fever, cough and cold treated.In this case, the kin also kept saying there were no symptoms and suddenly the person developed breathlessness and died, he said.The daughter maintained her father had fever after which the condition worsened. The government hospital at Kamptee which gave the report, did not issue referral letter for further hospitalization. After the patient felt breathless, the kin called the ambulance which returned for want of a letter. The letter was later issued by the cantonment hospital where the test was not done.A source in the health department said according to the protocol the hospital where the tests are done, contacts the positive patients. If the patient does not report any symptom a referral letter for admission to the Covid care centre is issued. If there are symptoms then the case is referred to GMC or Mayo Hospital. In any case, a referral letter has to be issued by the hospital where the test happens. On Tuesday, a case was referred the GMC, the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kamptee-case-highlights-perils-of-delayed-testing/articleshow/77207490.cms||Shishir Arya
July 28, 2020||Madurai||Man killed for getting liquor for a teenager||Madurai: A 24-year-old history-sheeter was hacked to death by a man as he bought liquor for his teenage son. The deceased has been identified as A Thavamani, from S Puliankulam in Silaiman. He had consumed liquor with a 17-year-old boy from the same locality around 10 days ago. The minor boy’s father S Boominathan, 38, who came to know about the incident picked up a quarrel with Thavamani. In response, Thavamani involved in a ruckus and damaged Boominathan’s and his neighbours house under the influence of alcohol on Sunday. Boominathan’s nephew Vijay, 23, who tried to prevent him from damaging the house suffered a cut injury on the hand. Raged over this, Boominathan, his elder brother Murugan, 52, and his son Vijay, 23, attacked Thavamani using sharp weapons. As he collapsed and died on the same spot, the trio surrendered before the police. Based on a complaint from Thavamani’s relative M Simon, a case was registered with the Silaiman police station. An inquiry was conducted by inspector Madasamy. According to the police, Thavamani was involved in six criminal cases in connection with a robbery and voluntarily causing injuries to people in the last five years. A couple of cases including a murder case was pending against him in Virudhunagar district police limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-killed-for-getting-liquor-for-a-teenager/articleshow/77208518.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Kochi||Kerala gold smuggling case: Customs moves to net Rabins Hamid, Faisal Fareed||KOCHI: On Monday, Commissionerate of Customs (Preventive) (CCP) –probing the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case –moved the additional chief judicial magistrate (economic offences) court seeking a non-bailable warrant (NBW) against two members of the racket based in UAE. NBW was sought against Faisal Fareed of Kaipamangalam and his associate Rabins Karikkankudiyil Hameed of Muvattupuzha. Customs had filed a report informing the court about arraigning the duo as accused in the case. Now, CCP has 18 accused in their list of which 16 have been arrested. “Fareed’s residence in Thrissur was searched and it is ascertained that he is in the UAE. Enquiries conducted in and around Muvattupuzha, the native place of Rabins revealed that he too is in the UAE. Report was filed to add them as additional accused and court has taken cognizance. Detailed investigation is needed to know if more persons are involved in the gold smuggling case,” stated the customs application seeking NBW. It added that the offence committed by the accused was non-bailable as per the Customs Act. Once, NBW is issued, customs will use it to extradite the accused from abroad. ED, Customs seek custody of Swapna, SandeepConfusion prevailed over granting the custody of Sandeep Nair and Swapna Suresh. Though customs filed request for a production warrant to take the accused into custody, the court did not pass an order as a similar petition was filed by the enforcement directorate at principal sessions court. Court will pass an order on Tuesday after proper clarification so that the custody period of CCP and ED won’t clash. On Monday morning, CCP presented K T Ramees in court as his custody period was coming to an end. Though customs filed a plea seeking a three-day extension of custody, the court didn’t entertain the same as the law says that from the first day of production, the accused cannot be sent to police custody after completion of 14 days. For Ramees, this limit ended on Monday. The court offered to grant custody till 5pm on Monday, but customs didn’t pursue it. The custody plea, which was not allowed, also pointed out that the CCP was unable to get the accused in custody for the first seven days after his arrest due to Covid situation. “He was arrested on July 12 and remanded in judicial custody on July 13. Though custody was sought on July 13, the accused couldn’t be produced in court as the result of his Covid test was delayed inordinately and was available on July 21,” said the custody application. Ramees was remanded in judicial custody till August 10. The court ordered that the accused can be produced via video conferencing for further remand extension. CCP’s intention was to question Ramees with Swapna and Sandeep, whom they were intending to get in custody. “The presence of Ramees while interrogating Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair is necessary to corroborate the statements given by other respondents who are collaborators and co-conspirators in the smuggling case,” the custody plea had said. Meanwhile, defence counsel strongly opposed a plea by customs seeking custody of 10 other accused. Defence counsels stated that they were not made aware of the customs’ plan to take the accused in custody. Counsels also argued that the 14-day statutory limitation in granting police custody would be over for most of the accused in coming days. It is learnt that customs will re-approach the court with a fresh plea seeking custody of Jalal, Shafi and Abdu. However, a decision is yet to be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/customs-moves-to-net-rabins-faisal/articleshow/77205991.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Pune||Trio steal cash, valuables worth Rs 1.6 lakh from shop||PUNE: Three persons wearing masks entered a variety shop in Sahakarnagar and stole Rs1.6 lakh as well as other valuables after diverting attention of the shopkeeper on Sunday afternoon. The shopkeeper, Mahendra Achalram Chowdhari (21) of Dhankawdi, has lodged a complaint with the Dattawadi police. As per the complaint, the trio in their 20s walked into the shop and demanded different things from the shopkeeper. After some time, one of them walked out of the shop to check umbrellas. As soon as the shopkeeper went outside, one of the men stole cash and other valuables.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trio-steal-cash-valuables-worth-rs-1-6-lakh-from-shop/articleshow/77207524.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Madurai||Two held for beating man to death in Tuticorin||Tuticorin: Tuticorin district police arrested two people and are on the lookout for two others for allegedly beating a man to death on Sunday night. It is learnt that the victim A Santhanam, 46, of Kayathar was buying liquor from the accused in the grey market on the Kayathar-Kadambur Road as it was complete lockdown on Sunday. According to those close to the victim, the accused demanded a higher price for liquor and the victim protested and raised his voice. The seller and three of his accomplices beat Santhanam, following which he called his friends for rescue. His friends reached there and took him to his village on a bike. The man spent the night on the portico of a house and went home on Monday morning. While the family was asking him about the bruises on his body, he collapsed on the floor. He was rushed to the Kayathar government hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival. The agitated relatives and villagers staged a protest demanding the arrest of the accused. Following discussions with police the protest was called off and the body was sent to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital for autopsy. In another incident, the burnt skeletal remains of a man were found in an open area by shepherds at Bharathi Nagar in Kayathar. Forensic expert who had inspected the place raised suspicion that it could be a man. Suspecting it to be a murder, police said that efforts are on to identify the victim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/two-held-for-beating-man-to-death-in-tuticorin/articleshow/77208522.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Kolkata||Markets see a rush but rates remain high||KOLKATA: Markets across the city witnessed an unusual rush on Monday, even as prices of vegetables and essentials refused to dip. The rates are unlikely to decrease now owing to the uncertainty over lockdown days ahead. Apparently not being able to buy fresh fruits, vegetables and fish over two days of lockdown and weekend, buyers thronged markets since early morning, throwing social distancing norms to the winds. Supply line disruptions were evident in fish prices, which had escalated since Wednesday even as stocks dwindled. Rohu and Katla prices had gone up by Rs 100/kg; fish sellers blamed the rise on erratic movement of trucks that ferried fish from other states and districts. Small varieties of prawn sold at Rs 350/kg, up from Rs 250-Rs 270/kg and the large varieties at Rs 650-670/kg, up from Rs 550/kg. “We pass on benefits to buyers when we get some in wholesale markets,” said Goutam Pal who sells fish at Lake Market. Prices of Jyoti and Chandramukhi potatoes remained Rs 32/kg and Rs 36/kg. Chandramukhi, which vanished from markets on Sunday, was back on Monday but vendors said the rate would go up. Inferior quality of onions that have filled markets were sold at Rs 30/kg. Vendors said these onions were from Nasik that had been rotting in storages. The better quality ones would be stored for lockdown days. “Earlier, markets were allowed to operate, and so, there was no dearth of supply. But now, we are bringing limited stocks as we do not have space to store the unsold perishables,” said Suman Dhara, a vegetable seller at Kasba Market. Seasonal vegetables, like striped gourd, snake gourd and ridged gourd, were sold for over Rs 50, pumpkins at Rs 40, cauliflowers at Rs 50-60, cabbages at Rs 50. “With the lockdown, the state should bring some market control too,” said Ritesh Kohli, who shops at New Alipore Market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/markets-see-a-rush-but-rates-remain-high/articleshow/77207574.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
July 28, 2020||Pune||Hurt vulture cured, released after 57 days||PUNE: A critically endangered long-billed vulture was released into the wild recently, after 57 days of rehabilitation at the Wildlife RESQ Centre in Pune. It had suffered a fracture on the wing, was unable to fly and was rescued by the Eco Echo Foundation, Nashik on May 29 this year. It was moved to the RESQ Wildlife Treatment Transit Centre, Pune with the help of Nashik and Pune forest divisions for treatment. After making a full recovery at RESQ Centre, the vulture was released back in the Anjaneri Conservation Reserve in Nashik. Neha Panchamiya, founder and president, RESQ Charitable Trust, Pune, said, “When the vulture came to RESQ, we took it as a challenge to put our efforts into ensuring this bird goes back into its habitat fully recovered.” As per the official sources, there has been a 99% decline in vulture population over last three decades in India. Abhijeet Mahale, head of Wildlife Rehabilitation, RESQ, Pune, said,“Physiotherapy and laser treatment was provided to the vulture to aid in its recovery.” Range Forest Officer Vivek Bhadane, Nashik forest division, said, “After the rescue and treatment, it is an achievement for us that this critically endangered species was released back in the reserve.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hurt-vulture-cured-released-after-57-days/articleshow/77207554.cms||Neha Madaan
July 28, 2020||Jaipur||Aadhaar card mandatory for Covid-19 test in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Aadhaar card, which is now an essential to avail benefits of various social schemes, has been made mandatory for Covid-19 testing in the state. A patient, who wants to get a Covid-19 test done, must produce his or her Aadhaar card before his sample is collected. But if a person does not have Aadhaar, he/she can submit the card of the head of the family or any other family member. A senior health department official said that the decision has been taken to keep track of patients. He said that there were instances when they face difficulty in tracing the patient after they get tested positive for Covid. “We have to create containment area in his neighbourhood and conduct contact tracing activities. But if we do not know the exact address of the patient, we find it difficult to take preventive measures,” said the official. The health department has issued fresh guidelines for testing. It says that while a lab technician can take samples of a person for Covid test, he must upload details of the patient on the RT-PCR App, including the Aadhaar number of the patient. Moreover, it has been clarified that it is the responsibility of the government to inform the person, who has undergone Covid test, the result of the test, irrespective of whether it is negative or positive. A lot of people have complained that they do not receive test result on time. For this, the health department has directed hospitals, laboratories and officials to ensure that the result of the test should be provided to people within 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/aadhaar-card-mandatoryfor-covid-19-test-in-state/articleshow/77208528.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Jaipur||Pink City to grow vertically on revised height norm for buildings||JAIPUR: The Pink City skyline is all set to change with the urban development and housing (UDH) department amending the minimum height for a building under the high-rise category from 15 metres to 18 metres. As land is shrinking, there is an increasing clamour for space. The decision to go vertical was taken at a meeting chaired by UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal which approved the draft of Building Regulations 2020. The notification will be issued soon in this regard. “To grant permission for more construction in urban areas, the department has decided to designate multi-storeyed structures taller than 18 metres as high-rise buildings. Also, permission to construct additional floor on smaller plots will be given. In the present scenario, the city requires high-density and low-rise development,” chief town planner R K Vijayvargiya said. A building can now be constructed up to a height 18 metres (5 storeys) in a 500-sqm plot and above.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pink-city-to-grow-vertically-on-revised-height-norm-for-bldgs/articleshow/77208535.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Mumbai||Light to moderate rain this week in Mumbai: IMD||MUMBAI: Parts of Mumbai and adjoining areas reported heavy overnight rain on July 26-27, with the wet spell continuing on Monday morning. But all through the day there was on-and-off moderate rain in several pockets of the city. The weather bureau has forecast light to moderate rain in Mumbai and surrounding areas all through the coming week. India Meteorological Department (IMD) deputy director-general (western region) K S Hosalikar said, “Mumbai and areas around it received moderate to heavy rain in the 24 hours ending 8.30am on Monday. Most of it occurred since early morning, with thunder. A satellite image indicated a cloud patch near Mumbai.” The heavy overnight rain caused water-logging in few low-lying areas of the city, like Hindmata in Dadar and Andheri subway. Traffic was thus diverted at few places. Rainfall recorded in the 24 hours ending 8.30am on Monday by IMD Santacruz observatory was 100.7mm (heavy rain category 64.5mm-115.5mm), while in Colaba it was 60.4mm (moderate 15.6mm-64.4mm). All through Monday, on-and-off showers continued and in the nine hours ending 5.30pm on Monday, moderate rain was reported by IMD Colaba (50.8mm) and Santacruz (16mm). Total rainfall recorded by IMD Santacruz since June 1 has been 1,833mm. Average rain required for four monsoon months is 2,260.4mm, which means the city received 81%. Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate change, from private weather forecasting agency Skymet, said localised weather systems gave the city heavy showers. “There was a development of thunder clouds, due to which this 100mm overnight shower was reported. We expect a gradual increase in rain activity between August 1-4 due to development of a trough over Maharashtra coast. Till then, sporadic showers will continue in the city, but it may not be very widespread,” he said. Lakes supplying water to the city, located in Thane and Nashik district, did not record significant rain activity. In the 24 hours ending 6am on July 27, rain recorded in the major catchment area lakes was almost negligible, with Bhatsa, the biggest lake from where Mumbai gets 50% of its supply, recording only 2mm of rain, Modak Sagar 1mm and Tansa also 1mm. Smaller lakes like Tulsi and Vihar, in Mumbai city limits, reported 15mm rain each. These lakes supply only 1-2% of Mumbai’s required supply. Till July 27, water stocks in all seven lakes was 4.6 lakh million litres (32% of that required). Last year, the quantum on that day was almost double, at 7.1 lakh million litres (70%).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/light-to-moderate-rain-this-week-in-mumbai-imd/articleshow/77207568.cms||Richa Pinto
July 28, 2020||Kochi||Kerala government prepares data bank of returning guest workers||KOCHI: While the rest of India is worried about guest workers going back to their homes, Kerala is fast becoming a return destination for many who had left in the initial days of the lockdown. According to a report prepared by the state labour commissioner, Pranabjyothi Nath, the department has begun preparation of a data bank of returning guest workers. “Of the nearly 4.34 lakh guest workers in Kerala, around 3.25 lakh have gone home till date. We have begun a process of indenting the data of the workers and which state they belong to. This will help us update all the details,” said Nath. A large segment of the guest workers in the state come from West Bengal, Assam, Bihar and Odisha. The comprehensive report based on the interactions Nath had with the guest workers and his visit to various labour camps points out why many are willing to come back. The strong social networks of the guest workers who already working in the state too play an important factor in workers choosing Kerala. The Guwahati-Thiruvananthapuram Express which originates from Assam, passes through Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and Tamil Nadu, the states that supply most of the guest workers to Kerala. The ease with which the money they earn can be transferred to their homes through formal and informal mechanisms and the penetration of mobile phones have also cut short the distance from their homes, the report said. Some of the guest workers who have come to Kerala with their families cited the availability of better educational and health facilities in Kerala as an additional impetus for sticking on here. Artisans from Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh working in the furniture sector cited that the conflict-free environment in Kerala was an additional attraction for them. Many workers from Bihar also felt that Kerala was a peaceful place to live in. The Muslim and Christian guest workers felt quite comfortable in the state compared to other parts of India. Hindi and Odiya services are offered for the Christian guest workers in select areas in the state. The report said that the labour department has set up a war room since the announcement of the nationwide lockdown for coordinating the facilities arranged for the guest workers in the state. Fifteen officials of the department have been deployed there and they are working round the clock in shifts. A special cell is also functioning in the labour commissionerate to coordinate the works of the labour department. The report said as on May 14, a total of 20,386 complaints were received and all of them were promptly attended to and resolved. The concerns of the guest workers regarding returning to their respective states were addressed by the labour commissioner. As on June 20, a total of 216 trains had departed from Kerala carrying of 3,25,626 guest workers to their native states, the report added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/govt-prepares-data-bank-of-returning-guest-workers/articleshow/77205996.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
July 28, 2020||Nagpur||NMC likely to begin walk-in tests for Covid-19 soon||Nagpur: For early detection and treatment of Covid-19 patients, which is important for controlling rise in deaths, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is likely to start ‘walk in’ tests at its Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHCs) and health centres in the coming days. The number of novel coronavirus patients in the city crossed 3,000 on Monday, with 58 deaths.As a step towards walk-in tests, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi and chief medical officer Dr Yogendra Savai have started special camps to test high-risk patients including pregnant women, senior citizens and persons with comorbidities in non-containment zones for the first time.The first special camp was organized at Trikoni Ground in Hanuman Nagar on Monday, where 150 persons gave swab samples. The camps will be organized in other non-containment zones from Tuesday onwards. The testing will be free of cost. The persons testing negative will not be quarantined.As a proactive measure, the civic body had started testing of all Influenza Like Illness (ILI) patients visiting its 15 UPHCs for last few days. Total 193 persons were tested of which 9 came positive. These tests were done using rapid antigen kits.The proposed walk-in tests will be conducted using rapid antigen kits. NMC has ordered the kits in bulk for this drive.It is likely to receive huge response as NMC will not quarantine persons who test negative. Also, asymptomatic high-risk contacts are allowed home quarantine. Even, asymptomatic positive patients have been permitted home isolation.Since registering the first case on March 11, testing for Covid-19 was a difficult task except for high-risk contacts of positive patients. Even paid testing in private laboratories required prescription of a doctor.The number of Covid-19 positive cases increased to 3,027 on Monday. The latest 1,000 cases were registered in just 12 days. First 1,000 cases came in 102 days and second 1,000 in 25 days.The latest 1,000 cases came despite there being no major hotspots. It means cases came from various, indicating wide spread of Covid-19.However, the city continues to be better than other cities in the state. Though the third most populous, the city is 15th among 27 municipal corporations in number of positive cases.The number of cases in the 14 municipal corporations above Nagpur in this list is very high. Mumbai has 1.10 lakh, followed by Pune 52,395, Kalyan-Dombivli 21,401, Thane 19,460, Navi Mumbai 15,570, Pimpri-Chinchwad 17,678, Vasai-Virar 11,271, Aurangabad 9,059, Nashik 8,350, Mira-Bhayandar 8,245, Ulhasnagar 6,796, Panvel 6,579, Solapur 4,819 and Bhivandi-Nizampur 3,715.However, Covid-19 deaths in the city are rising. There have been 57 deaths in the city till now, though there were only 22 deaths when the city crossed first 1,000 cases on July 15. The mortality rate has surged to 1.88%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-likely-to-begin-walk-in-tests-for-covid-19-soon/articleshow/77207586.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 28, 2020||Kochi||Call for enhanced testing as cases spike in West Kochi||Kochi: With more number of people from West Kochi testing positive for coronavirus, councillors representing various divisions of Kochi corporation insist on increasing the number of testing to contain community spread. So far, the district administration has declared 10 out of 28 divisions of the local body which fall under West Kochi region as containment zones. Seven persons from the region tested positive on Sunday. Cheralai councillor Shyamala S Prabhu said though the division has been declared as a containment zone no positive cases have been reported from the region. Stressing that the number of testing has to be hiked, she said: “There is hardly any testing happening from Cheralai. However, the proximity of Cheralai to other divisions where positive cases have been reported is a matter of concern. Unless the health department collects and tests more samples how will we identify and isolate people,” she said. People’s representatives with the corporation council said that currently the focus is on testing primary contacts of positive cases. “All those who have come in contact with a Covid positive person are placed under quarantine. The health department tests those who develop severe symptoms. Those who fall in the vulnerable category are also being tested. Collection and testing of more samples will be an advantage,” said Kalvathy division councillor Zeenath Rasheed. On Sunday, three positive cases have been reported from Palluruthy area. Councillor Thampi Subramanian pointed out the spurt in cases at Chellanam and said: “We need more testing. Antigen kits can be used for testing both primary contacts and asymptomatic people. If required more areas have to be declared as containment zones.” Former councillor from Fort Kochi Antony Kureethara said that very few tests are happening in the most affected regions of West Kochi and it is putting people at further risk. “The health department has to inform the public on how many tests are being done in each region. It will help annul the fear element,” he said. He also said that people seeking quarantine facilities at homestays and hotels in Fort Kochi are directly brought here from the airport. “As the roads are closed they have to walk to their destinations. It is an unhealthy practice,” he said. According to Shyamala Prabhu, instead of carrying out more tests the authorities sealed off more areas as an attempt to prevent spreading of the virus through contact. She said that police noticed people crossing over to the neighbouring division through narrow roads and bylanes. “When they see shops being kept open in the neighbouring division, those in containment zones somehow manage to get there. When police reported these incidents to the collector, the district administration declared Cheralai as a containment zone.” Deputy mayor and representative of Konam division K R Premakumar said that the health department does not update the local bodies on the number of tests done. “The health department should check with the local bodies and decide on the areas where random testing need to be done,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/call-for-enhanced-testing-as-cases-spike-in-west-kochi/articleshow/77207583.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Pune||Youth booked for stalking & blackmailing in Pune||PUNE: The Dehu Road police on Sunday booked a 21-year-old youth from Chakan for blackmailing a minor girl by uploading her photographs on a social media platform and demanding money from her. The girl’s father on Sunday lodged an FIR with the police when he came across the photographs. An officer from Dehu Road police said the girl and the youth knew each other. Since May, they were not on talking terms. “On July 23, one of the friends of the girl’s brother noticed her photographs with the youth uploaded on a social media platform,” he said. The girl told her father that the youth had been harassing her by calling her repeatedly. He has been booked under 354D (stalking) of the IPC and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youth-booked-for-stalking-blackmailing/articleshow/77207575.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Pune||Masked men on scooter snatch chain||Pune: Two masked men riding on a scooter snatched a 40-year-old woman’s gold chain worth Rs30,000 on Magarpatta Road in Hadapsar on Sunday. The woman, who is from Aurangabad and is presently residing in Pune, has lodged an FIR against the unidentified men with the Hadapsar police. The woman and her daughter were walking home after buying milk and newspapers on Sunday morning. They entered a lane near a flyover on Magarpatta Road, when the suspects came from the opposite side. The pillion rider snatched the woman’s chain and the duo fled, the police said. Inspector Humraj Kumbhar (crime) from the Hadapsar police said, “The investigations revealed that the suspects were aged around 25. They fled in the direction of Mundhwa. We are checking the CCTV cameras around the spot.” The suspects have been booked under sections 392 (Punishment for robbery) and 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/masked-men-on-scooter-snatch-chain/articleshow/77207569.cms||---
July 28, 2020||India||Gold case: NIA quizzes Kerala former secretary; will he be made a witness?||KOCHI: Senior IAS officer, and former principal secretary to Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan, M Sivasankar, was questioned by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for almost nine hours on Monday over the gold smuggling racket that has cast a shadow on the LDF government, particularly the CM’s office. Sivasankar, who was questioned from 10am to 7pm at the NIA office, has been asked to appear again before the agency on Tuesday. NIA sleuths were tight-lipped on the extent of Sivasankar’s involvement in the case, though legal and political observers say that the length of the questioning would mean that the agency did have some loose ends to tie up regarding the IAS officer’s connections to Swapna Suresh and some of the other main accused. S Rajeev, Sivasankar’s lawyer, told reporters that it is important to note that Sivasankar’s name has so far not been mentioned in any official document related to the case. “He was in no way connected to the gold smuggling incident. The investigating agency has to decide on whether to make him a witness or not. Questioning is for clarity,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gold-case-nia-quizzes-kerala-former-secy-will-he-be-made-a-witness/articleshow/77210266.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Kochi||Protest at crematorium: BJP councillor, 30 others booked in Kerala||KOTTAYAM: Police on Monday booked BJP councillor T N Harikumar and 30 others for staging a protest and blocking the cremation of a Covid-19 victim at the municipal crematorium in Kottayam. Police have charged a case under the Epidemic Diseases Ordinance Act and various other sections of the IPC. After the district administration took a strong stand, the body of Ouseph George, 83, was cremated at the crematorium in the presence of a heavy police personnel by around 11.15pm on Sunday. The protest and the ensuing confusion caused delay of around eight hours for the cremation. The residents of a colony located next to the crematorium, led by Harikumar, had staged the protest. They had also erected a fence at the crematorium entrance. Meanwhile, the incident has developed in to a political issue with local MLA Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan saying that he came to know about the cremation only through the media on Monday morning.  He also said that the tahsildar who was representing the government at the protest spot had assured the protesters in his presence that the cremation has been postponed. He alleged that the officer changed his decision later to protect the interest of someone. Harikumar said that around 300 people from 52 families are residing in the vicinity of the crematorium. “Their safety should have been considered. Instead of creating awareness earlier, the health department official tried to create awareness among the residents when the protest was going on,” he said. CPM district secretary V N Vasavan slammed both the Congress and the BJP for playing dirty politics and trying to break the law and order situation using the residents. Meanwhile, the whole incident received severe flak from social media. Many opined that the unfortunate incident had tarnished the image of the town, which is the first in the country to be declared fully literate. Dr Jinesh P S of Info Clinic wrote on Facebook that one gets infected by the virus through droplet transmission when another person coughs or sneezes. Dead bodies never sneeze or cough, he wrote. He also wrote that the hospitals take extra care in wrapping the bodies in plastic covers before handing over to ensure that no secretions from the body goes out. So there is no chance of anyone getting infected from the virus, he said. “Despite knowing all this if someone tries to thwart the cremation of a Covid-19 victim, then we can only term the act as inhuman,” he said, adding that the safest method to ensure that an infectious disease does not spread after death is cremation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/protest-at-crematorium-bjp-councillor-30-others-booked/articleshow/77206017.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Of 471 Telangana deaths, 60% coronavirus burials at one graveyard alone||HYDERABAD: The Faqeer Mullah Kabristan, a Muslim graveyard located in the boulders on Hyderabad’s outskirts near Balapur Dargah, has seen the final rites of more than 60% of Covid-19 victims of Telangana. The state officially reported 471 Covid-19 deaths till Monday. Of these, 291 were buried here from April 9 onwards till Monday. Almost all the victims were from the Greater Hyderabad area, with a small number coming from nearby districts. This effectively means that only 180 Covid-19 victims have been buried or cremated in the rest of the state. Habeeb Asif, in-charge of the graveyard, has been burying four to five virus victims daily on an average. “We accept bodies only with a police report and Aadhaar card details. Around 10 acres have been allotted for burying Covid-19 victims,” he says. “More than 270 victims are from Hyderabad, mostly from Golconda area and Old City. We also get bodies from Khammam, Mahbubnagar, Nalgonda.” Asif has photographed each Covid-19 grave and kept a record of the Aadhaar cards. “We are also maintaining a register of Covid-19 victims,” he adds. “The number of burials increased from June 15. Most of the victims are above 50 years.” The Telangana high court had recently ordered the state government to test all those who died in the state for Covid-19. The state government had however moved the Supreme Court against the order and obtained a stay. Telangana public health director Dr G Srinivasa Rao told TOI, “In Telangana, 750 to 800 people die every day in normal course. Around 1,200 births are also recorded. in normal circumstances, no one cares about these deaths. These days, more than 90% of people die in hospitals as they are admitted in a critical state while fighting a disease. This is a common phenomenon. We are reporting all Covid-19 deaths.” When asked about high court order on testing bodies, Rao said, “It is humanly impossible to test the dead. The Supreme Court commented it was immature to suggest that the dead should be tested. No other state is doing this. Everyday 900 people die. We can't test all of them. We have to care about those who are alive. We are dealing with a pandemic, so I don't have figures currently.” Sources in Telangana’s intelligence department said that when sleuths checked graveyards and crematoriums across the city, 39 Covid-19 victims were buried on July 23 and some of the places bodies were piled up for two to three days before the final rites were performed. Wakf Board in-charge CEO Mohammed Khasim said, “Five years ago, 32 acres were allotted by the government at Balapur which is the muthawali. We can’t call it an exclusive graveyard for Covid-19. Other graveyards are also accepting Covid-19 bodies if the victim belonged to the area. In some cases, bodies that are rejected by others, are brought to the Faqeer Mullah graveyard.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/of-471-t-deaths-60-virus-burials-at-1-graveyard-alone/articleshow/77209324.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
July 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Secretariat CCTV visuals to be handed over to NIA||Thiruvananthapuram: The state government has begun compiling visuals from CCTV cameras installed in the Secretariat, so as to hand it over to the National Investigation Agency (NIA), as part of the investigation into the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case. The NIA, last Friday, asked the general administration department officials who are the custodians of the CCTV cameras and the control room, to hand over the visuals from July 1 to July 12 to the agency sleuths. The agency had also formally requested the chief secretary to provide the visuals. This was sought to check if anyone accused in the smuggling case had come to the Secretariat and met anyone, including chief minister’s former principal secretary M Sivasankar. If found so, the visuals can be a crucial evidence to the agency and also a major headache for the government, which is trying to dissociate itself from Sivasankar, who was all-powerful official in the government till recently. The agency had also informed the government that it should preserve visuals from the last one year. Sources said that the government will hand over the CCTV control system, if required, to NIA for examination and retrieving if anything is found. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/secretariat-cctv-visuals-to-be-handed-over-to-nia/articleshow/77206037.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal waives tax penalty for all except private buses||KOLKATA: The Bengal government has announced a waiver on penalty for tax dues by transport or commercial vehicles, but non-AC stage carriage or private buses have not been offered the breather. However, given the restrictions imposed to minimize the spread of the novel coronavirus, the state transport department has extended the validity of fitness certificates, permits and driving licences, which had expired on February 1, till July 31, for all. In its notification under Section 11 of West Bengal Motor Vehicles Tax Act 1979 and Section 23A West Bengal Additional Tax and Motor Vehicles Act 1989, the transport department has exempted state vehicles of penalty on tax and additional tax for a period, starting from July 1, 2020, on a condition that the taxes are paid within September 30. Private bus operators said they expected complete waiver on taxes, keeping in view how badly their trade had been hit in the current pandemic situation. “We are already in a hand-to-mouth existence. Our earnings have been so low that we have defaulted on EMIs for loans. We expect the government to exempt us of tax completely,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay, secretary, Joint Council of Bus Syndicates. Transport department officials, however, claimed the government was sympathetic towards the plight of private bus operators and so, it had announced a relief package for them. The private bus operation in the city has reportedly been badly hit not only owing to fewer passengers allowed on board to maintain social distancing to minimize the spread of the novel coronavirus but also by the rise in diesel prices. Earlier, the state government had offered 100% waiver on penalty for unpaid tax of any kind, accrued by any vehicle, if the levies were paid within a scheduled time. Moreover, the transport department also offered a waiver of 50% of the compounding amount for motor vehicle offences, irrespective of the date of when it was committed, imposed by the enforcement authority (police or motor vehicle inspectors), if it was paid within the deadline. The period for waiver on the pending fitness certificate cases has also been extended from February 29 to July 31. The state government could mop up a revenue of Rs 64 crore from fitness certificate fees alone by offering the waiver on the penalty against non-compliant vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-waives-tax-penalty-for-all-except-pvt-buses/articleshow/77207594.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Kochi||Strategy in place to avoid outbreak within force: SP||Kochi: With the Covid-19 situation worsening in the district, police have upgraded their strategy to avoid a possible outbreak within the force. Ernakulam rural police has set up a quarantine centre each in every sub-division so that personnel who require quarantine can immediately be separated from the rest of the force. Also, a ‘one accused-one team’ strategy has been imposed to avoid spread of infection among police from the accused. Ernakulam rural SP K Karthick said a quarantine centre each in the subdivisions of Aluva and Muvattupuzha has been set up apart from the existing one in Perumbavoor to cater to the quarantine needs of policemen alone. “We have 30 odd policemen in quarantine apart from one who was tested positive. Right now, the facility at Perumbavoor is being used for quarantine. Now, we have received halls and sponsorships to set up 15-bed quarantine centres at Muvattupuzha and Aluva as well. Arrangements for them are being made from the AR camp. The aim is to keep all police stations functioning even if a policeman has to go in quarantine,” said Karthick. He added that personnel from special wings like DCRB and C-Branch are deployed in place of personnel who go on quarantine. “We are encouraging personnel to take care of themselves and all of them are going in quarantine if they come in contact with a patient somehow. If station house officers get quarantined, experienced sub-inspectors are given temporary charge,” said Karthick. The SP added that arrest and handling of accused is a tricky area as it is a job that has to be done to maintain law and order. “The other day, a goon who was arrested in a case got out on bail and later beat up his own father. We had no option but to arrest the accused in such cases. If earlier, arrest, production in court, paper-work etc., were done by different policemen, now, we are making one small team do all the work related to a particular accused, so that minimal contact can be ensured,” said SP Karthick. The SP added that continuous training of officials is the only way to control the virus spread within the force and that they are briefing the personnel about ideal and updated operating procedures every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/strategy-in-place-to-avoid-outbreak-within-force-sp/articleshow/77207642.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 90% demolition over, secretariat now debris & dust||HYDERABAD: The demolition works at the old secretariat buildings are in full swing. Only J and L blocks need to be pulled down (as on Monday) with 90% of the work almost complete. Around 2,000 truckloads of debris has till now been transported to the recycling plant at Jeedimetla, while an estimated 4,500 truckloads is likely to be generated by the time the entire work is completed. The roads and buildings department wants to complete demolition of all the blocks in a week. The demolition of the buildings had to be suspended for a few days following the court’s stay order, which was lifted on July 17. The demolition work started on July 7, after which it was for the first time on Monday that mediapersons were allowed inside the secretariat complex. A note from the chief minister’s office said the government did not allow anybody on the premises until now owing to the fear of unforeseen mishaps. Although the reporters were allowed inside, there were strict police restrictions in place. The officials did not allow anybody to go deep into the premises. Photographers and videographers were asked to shoot pictures while sitting inside a vehicle. While the police obliged after repeated requests to let the reporters get down from the vehicles they were being transported, they were still not allowed to get close to the sites where the demolition was going on. However, the norm of physical distancing was completely ignored as mediapersons stayed crammed inside the vehicles for long.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ground-zero-90-demolition-over-sectt-now-debris-dust/articleshow/77207591.cms||Roushan Ali
July 28, 2020||Jaipur||Remembering ‘Kana General’: Hero of the 1918 Haifa Battle||JAIPUR: Colonel Bahadur Singh of Jodhpur Lancers received the Order Of The British India (OBI) and Indian Distinguished Services Medal for showing exemplary courage during World War-I at the battle of Haifa in 1918. Despite being shot in the eye while fighting, Singh kept moving forward and kept encouraging his fellow soldiers. He was awarded for his distinguished services in the war while he was in his early 20’s. READ THE FULL STORY ON TOI+||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/remembering-kana-general-hero-of-the-1918-haifa-battle/articleshow/77208542.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
July 28, 2020||Nagpur||‘Let residents mingle in c-zones, focus on herd immunity’||Nagpur: Welcoming the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) decision allowing asymptomatic Covid patients to stay in home isolation, doctors and experts have cautioned citizens against showing any leniency towards precautionary measures and suggested free movement of residents within the extended containment zone limits. The NMC must revert to its large containment zone policy and let people mingle with each other in the zone itself to build herd immunity, they added. Former dean of Yavatmal GMCH, who is now associated with a premier medical college, said the NMC must now seal one complete area if a Covid case is detected. “People with co-morbidities must be placed in institutional quarantine from such areas. Other residents should be allowed to follow normal life and social interaction. This will help build herd immunity,” said the former dean.Major General Vibha Dutta, director and CEO of AIIMS Nagpur, said, “It is a good decision that asymptomatic patients, if they have facilities for self-isolation, are sent home. They should strictly isolate themselves at home. In the Indian context, bringing everyone to the hospital is not the solution. Prioritization is need of the hour.”She said quarantine, isolation, test, trace and treat is the crux for management of Covid cases. “Simultaneously, people should use mask, wash hands frequently and have confidence in the system,” said Dutta.Regarding containment zones, she said people will have to follow self-discipline. “It has to be like a social movement,” said the AIIMS director.Infectious disease specialist Dr Nitin Shinde said it is a good move. “This will decongest hospitals. So far, the idea was to prevent spread of the infection. But we are maturing to a stage of widespread community spread. Hence, we need to reserve hospital beds for critical patients only. Only initial 7 to 8 days are infectious. Now, all depends on people. Use of mask is must. It will save all,” he said.Medical microbiologist Dr Sarfaraz Ahmed too agreed that bed availability will increase with the move. He, however, expressed concern about who will monitor the asymptomatic patients. “If the patient’s movement is not controlled, the Covid situation it will explode. Earlier, focus was on only two areas, still the virus spread in wider areas of city. What is the guarantee patients will adhere to the norms” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/let-residents-mingle-in-c-zones-focus-on-herd-immunity/articleshow/77207602.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 28, 2020||Kochi||‘Hridaya’ ensures smooth burial of Covid victim||Thrissur: When fierce protests were taking place over the cremation of a Covid-19 patient in Kottayam on Sunday evening, the body of another infected patient was buried at St Thomas Cathedral, Irinjalakkuda. Interestingly, another church under the Irinjalakkuda diocese had witnessed intense protests over the burial of a Covid victim early last month. The body of Pallan Varghese (71), who had breathed his last at Thrissur Medical College Hospital on Sunday morning, was buried on Sunday afternoon without any issue at the Cathedral cemetery. “We had made some preparations to ensure that the last rites of Covid-19 victims were performed smoothly. Special teams, christened as Hridaya Crisis Management Group, have been formed in all the 137 parishes of the diocese to oversee the last rites of the Covid-19 victims,’’ said Irinjalakkuda Bishop Mar Pauly Kannookadan. Protests by residents, including some of the parish members, during the burial of the body of the Covid-19 victim, Dinny Chacko from Chalakkudy, at St Sebastian Church, Thachudaparambu, on June 10 last were an eye-opener to the church authorities.  “We had issued a circular to all the parishes under the diocese suggesting that the bodies of the Covid victims should be buried in the cemeteries of the parish churches where they hailed from. If the cemeteries do not have the required spaces, the bodies should be buried on the church compound, or in the cemetery of the mother church. Cremation will be approved in the case of those who had made that option clear earlier itself. But the cremation will be done after the funeral services,’’ Bishop said. As soon as the news about the death of Varghese reached St Thomas Cathedral, Fr Antu Alappadan and assistant priests Frr Rees Vadassery, Fr Albin Punneliparambil and Fr Stern Kodiyan launched steps to conduct the burial. The body was buried in a six-feet funeral pit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hridaya-ensures-smooth-burial-of-covid-victim/articleshow/77206033.cms||T Ramavarman
July 28, 2020||Kolkata||Covid victim’s body lies at home for 15 hours in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The body of a 62-year-old man, who had died around Sunday midnight, after contracting the novel coronavirus, lay unattended in his house for more than 15 hours. His family alleged officials of different departments had asked them to procure his death certificate themselves. Only after education minister Partha Chatterjee and south Kolkata MP Mala Roy intervened did police arranged for his death certificate and his body was finally taken away by health department and KMC officials. Three other family members of the man have also been detected with Covid-19. The man’s kin alleged they had contacted the local councillor and family physician, but neither of them helped them out to get the certificate. The Behala police, too, allegedly did not help. However, cops denied the allegation. Atin Ghosh, former MMic (health), said, “Had we known the matter, we would have intervened earlier. Cops should have played a more active role.” A police officer said, “The councillor should have alerted us or the KMC. As the family sought the civic body’s help, they were asked for a post-mortem. We went from one doctor to another and arranged for the death certificate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-victims-body-lies-at-home-for-15-hrs/articleshow/77207614.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 28, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Jharsuguda lawyer gets hitched to Nagpur girl over WhatsApp||JHARSUGUDA: Mehendi Reza and Tahera Bano had made a lot of plans for their big day. The two had fixed July 22 as their wedding date, had got their dressed made and were looking forward to the Nikah. But Covid-19 and the subsequent lockdown put a brake on their plans. Mehendi (34), a lawyer by profession, and resident of Jharsuguda and Tahera (28) from Kamptee in Nagpur, Maharashtra, had almost planned to shelve the marriage before they decided to get married on the appointed date, with Whatsapp connecting the bride and groom. “Owing to the travel restrictions due to the lockdown, we had two options in front of us – to either postpone the wedding or carry on with the wedding via different means,” said Mehendi. The couple chose the second option. The bride and groom had a little over four hours to get prepared for the marriage, as the final decision was taken by the family members around 4 pm on July 22. Luckily, their wedding dresses were ready. The groom’s Sehra (the bridal headgear) was prepared in a hurry and the bride did her hair and make-up on her own. Their relatives and close friends were informed. “On the chosen date, we took our marital vows in the presence of a few family members and close friends,” Mehendi said. Initially, they tried some other video calling apps before settling on Whatsapp. “We exchanged our wedding vows in the presence of Maulana Muslim Reza from Kamptee, Nagpur,” he added. Once the travel restrictions end, Mehendi and Tahera plan to organize a wedding reception for their family and friends. The bride and groom understand they will need to wait for a while until the situation normalises, but for now they are simply happy that they are married.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/jharsuguda-lawyer-gets-hitched-to-nagpur-girl-over-whatsapp/articleshow/77206100.cms||Ritesh Sharma
July 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Railway station to soon have foot pedal operated hand wash machine||Ludhiana: In a crucial step to ensure the safety of ticket checking staff of long route passenger trains who come in close contact with a large numbers of passengers during ticket checking, the local railway authorities will soon install a foot pedal operated hand wash machine at the city railway station, which will help the railway staff on duty to wash their hands and face with soap without touching any surface. Following the demand of the ticket checking staff, the local railway authorities will soon install an advance machinery to resolve the issue of maintaining proper hygiene among on field duty officers of the ticket checking department. The Northern Railway have already installed one such machine in the new model running room at the city railway station, wherein train drivers and guards stay after completing their journey of being on good trains. Earlier, the train drivers had to face several difficulties in maintaining proper hygiene after finishing their duty. Apart from that, the railways had been providing all essential medical logistics to all on duty and officials of the traffic management department, who are working for smooth functioning of passenger trains. As per details, more than nine long route passenger trains pass through the city railway station on a regular basis after carrying thousands of local passengers but for continuing such massive transportation service a large number of ticket checkers have been deputed by the railway authorities. In an attempt to strengthen the safety cover of ticket checkers, the railway will install the machines which will help to overcome the safety issues of ticket checkers, so that they can continue their work for long hours without any hesitation. Giving information on this, director of Ludhiana railway station Tarun Kumar said, “With a view to preventing railway employees getting affected by coronavirus, Northern Railway will soon install food pedal operated hand wash machine at the city railway station to ensure their proper safety in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases. This machine will play a crucial role in restricting the impact of Covid-19 among the driver community because with its use there is no chance of getting affected by a virus as it is totally safe.” “This machine will help ticket checkers of passenger trains to wash their hands with liquid soap without touching any surface. This mechanism enables the use of a water tap and liquid soap dispenser without hand contact as it is operated by foot pedals. This hand free mechanism is installed in the wash basin of the running room for the staff.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/railway-station-to-soon-have-foot-pedal-operated-hand-wash-machine/articleshow/77207646.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
July 28, 2020||Chennai||Madras HC wants Centre to fix OBC quota for its medical seats||CHENNAI: The Madras high court has green-flagged OBC reservation under the all India quota (AIQ) medical seats in non-central institutions as well, and has given three months for the Centre to take a decision on the percentage. While Tamil Nadu political parties demand 50% for OBCs, the central scheme allows only 27%. “…we find that in principle there is no legal or constitutional impediment for extending the benefit of reservation to OBC in the state-surrendered AIQ seats of the UG/PG medical courses in state-run medical colleges within Tamil Nadu, subject to any further directions or orders of the apex court,” ruled the first bench of Chief Justice A P Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy on Monday. The issue relates to denial of MBBS and post-graduate medical seats in state government medical colleges under AIQ for OBC candidates. While SC/STs and economically weaker section candidates have access to AIQ through reservation, OBCs were not included in the quota net. All top parties in Tamil Nadu, except the BJP, jointly initiated the present legal proceedings. On Monday, rejecting the contention of Medical Council of India (MCI) that permitting reservation in AIQ seats would compromise merit, the court said: “This argument gets diluted, as NEET examinations are now clearly designed to allow only such candidates to be admitted, who secure a minimum merit.” Thus, application of any reservation rule, be it at the instance of the state-specific law or as per any reservation policy framed by the central government for AIQ seats, will not affect merit, the court said. The MCI said the state reservation would apply only to AIQ medical seats in central institutions, whereas the affidavit of the Centre before the SC and the HC said there was a proposal to provide OBC reservation in state government colleges, subject to the condition that the overall reservation would not exceed 50% of the total seats under AIQ. These two factors, as also a letter from the Union health minister to DMK’s senior advocate P Wilson recognising the sanctity of state law, played a vital role for the bench in penning the verdict. The bench, however, refrained from issuing an overt directive to the Centre saying, “A straight mandamus for extending the benefit of reservation from this court may not be possible unless a crystallized right takes a shape. The interference with a policy matter, if already taken, may be permissible through a judicial review to a limited extent but, on the other hand, it is debatable as to whether a policy framed in the shape of a proposal and not implemented can be enforced in the absence of a crystallized legal right.” “We are issuing the direction which is not a policy declaration nor a mandamus to declare a policy,” the judges said, adding: “The proposal (to provide OBC reservation) as committed is already in place as professed by the central government and legally supportable by a state law. Since the seats are of AIQ, therefore, it requires a decision with the participation of the authorities keeping in view the fact that the control of coordinated standards of higher education is with the central government and the MCI in such matters, as held by the Constitution bench in Saurabh Chaudri’s case,” the court added. To apply this on principle, the matter has to be resolved between the state and the Centre with the participation of the MCI and dental council, the bench said, and added: “Therefore, we find that it would be appropriate that the issue is referred to a committee for providing the terms of implementation of such reservation as claimed by the petitioners.” The court also made it clear that any decision of the committee would apply only to future academic years and not this academic year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-wants-centre-to-fix-obc-quota-for-its-med-seats/articleshow/77207651.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad teen killed after petty argument, woman among 3 arrested||Aurangabad: An 18-year-old youth was stabbed to death in the Pundaliknagar area over a petty issue late on Sunday night. A woman named Baby, her son Praveen and brother Raju Paithankar have been arrested. The deceased has been identified as Pritesh Prabhakar Shinde, a resident of Lane 1 of Pundaliknagar area. Preliminary probe has revealed that the after dinner, Pritesh had gone out with his friends. On his way back, Pritesh and his friends stopped at the corner of the lane near Baby’s house. Baby stepped out and asked them why they were standing there and allegedly slapped Pritesh. This led to an argument and Praveen and Raju also came out of the house. While Baby tried to strangle Pritesh, Raju stabbed him. Hearing the commotion, Pritesh’s father came out and found his son injured. Pritesh succumbed at the hospital. Pundaliknagar police station assistant inspector Ghanshyam Sonawne said, “The woman and her son were immediately arrested, from the spot, while her brother, who had managed to flee, was later arrested from Jaibhavani Nagar area.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-teen-killed-after-petty-argument-woman-among-3-arrested/articleshow/77204781.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||UDF, BJP teaming up to destabilize govt: CPM CC||Thiruvananthapuram: The CPM central committee (CC) on Monday repeated the allegation levelled by state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan last week that ‘Congress-led UDF and the BJP were working in tandem to destabilize the LDF government, demanding the resignation of the chief minister, on false allegations.’ Denouncing the efforts to destabilize the LDF government in Kerala, the CPM CC in a communique issued after the two-day online meet that concluded on Sunday said the party was confident that the people of Kerala will defeat this disruptive move of the UDF and BJP at a time when all efforts are needed to be focused in combating Covid-19 pandemic. Referring to the gold smuggling case through diplomatic baggage addressed to the UAE consulate, the CC communique said it was chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan who asked for an investigation by the central agencies. “The NIA is currently investigating the matter. All those found guilty and involved in this racket by the NIA should be dealt with in accordance with law,” the CC observed. It is reliably learnt that CPM state unit’s version regarding the case was accepted by the CPM politburo (PB) that met in between the two-day session. CM Pinarayi Vijayan explained in detail the circumstances of the case and assured the party leadership that anyone found guilty won’t be supported by him. State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan is learnt to have spoken about the striking similarities between the modes of protest by Congress and BJP and presented his theory that the BJP leadership has made a tacit understanding with opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala whom they prefer over Oommen Chandy and P K Kunhalikutty to lead the UDF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/udf-bjp-teaming-up-to-destabilize-govt-cpm-cc/articleshow/77206098.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Kochi||Catering units find ways to stay afloat in Kerala||KOTTAYAM: With marriage functions limited to 50 guests owing to the Covid-19 situation, catering units are trying all possible means to survive the crisis. Many units are giving the option of live-streaming the event and delivering the feast to guests at their doorsteps. Manoj Madavaseril from Aranmula, who specializes in vallasadya, arranged the catering for an engagement held at Kozhenchery last week. Apart from the 50 odd persons who had attended the function, Madavaseril home delivered the feast to around 70 homes. The host had also made arrangements for live-streaming the function at the homes of the guests. “We served food up to Ranni, which is around 15km from Kozhenchery,” said Madavaseril. Elias Zachariah who runs a catering unit in Kottayam delivers biryani to guests. “The customer will have to provide us the address of guests in advance so that we can plan a route map for the delivery. Of course the distribution will be within a certain distance,” he added. Many catering units have invested several lakhs to mechanize their kitchen and have bought vehicles for carrying food from their kitchen to the place where the events take place. Many have salaried employees whom they have to maintain. Zachariah, who is the patron of All Kerala Caterers Association, also introduced ‘Sunday biryani’ on a pre-order basis. “We can keep our kitchen staff engaged and also the machinery will not remain unused for a long time,” he added. Gijan Mathayees, who runs a catering unit at Chalakkudy, has come up with an innovative idea which he has already implemented. The unit is now bringing out readymade thick gravy for chicken, meat and pork, which he sells through poultry and meat shops. “One has to add just salt to it along with the meat. We are getting good response for the dish,” he said. “We will be bringing out gravy of fish curry soon,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/catering-units-find-ways-to-stay-afloat/articleshow/77206044.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
July 28, 2020||Nagpur||With 10 Covid deaths, Kamptee district’s major hotspot||Nagpur: Kamptee has become Nagpur district’s major hotspot. The town has registered 10 Covid-19 positive deaths in a span of 10 days. It has left behind the Mominpura-Dobi Nagar-Timki-Golibar Chowk area in city, which registered nine deaths over 81 days.Kamptee, which has a population of around 90,000, had only 10 novel coronavirus positive cases on June 30. On July 14, it was less than 50. Within a span of 13 days, the number of cases in the town increased to 336.Mominpura area too has around 90,000 residents. This area got its first positive case on April 4 and first death on 25 days later. On Monday, the number of cases here is 432. It took 114 days to reach this figure. Kamptee registered over 270 cases in 13 days.Most of the deceased who were detected with Covid-19 could get treatment only for a day or two. One of the deceased had passed away at home and samples tested positive later.Kamptee tehsildar Arvind Hinge told TOI that most of the cases are from three areas — Warispura, Imli Bazaar and Naya Bazaar. “These areas house around 10,000 people and are densely populated. We have started four testing centres here. High-risk people including senior citizens and those with comorbidities are being tested using rapid antigen kits. Early testing will reduced number of deaths,” he said.The district administration, zilla parishad and Kamptee municipal council are also focusing on contact tracing, testing and containment zones for containing Covid spread.Sources from the district administration and zilla parishad said that a major reason behind the steep hike in cases is violation of guidelines. “Not observing social distancing, wearing masks, respiratory etiquettes resulted in spread of the disease. When the lockdown was relaxed, the administration had tested and monitored those coming from other districts and states,” the sources said.Kamptee cantonment area too registered 52 positive cases of which 42 have recovered. The remaining 10 are under treatment at the Military Hospital.Kamptee tehsil also features in the 13 (tehsils) of the district with cases over 429. 32 are from Yerkhede, 13 Bhilgaon, 10 Koradi, 8 each Mahadula and Khairi, 8 Ranala, 3 Gumthala and Beena, 2 Gumathi and one each from Mondha, Nanda, Bidgaon, Uppalwadi, Kawatha and Palsad.KAMPTEE DEATHSJuly 17 | Man, 34July 19 | Woman, 72July 20 | Man, 63July 21 | Man, 51July 23 | Man, 60 and 66; woman, 54July 25 | Man (age unknown)July 26 | Woman, 45; man, 43||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-10-covid-deaths-kamptee-districts-major-hotspot/articleshow/77207631.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 28, 2020||Hyderabad||AP fourth state to record over 1 lakh Covid-19 cases; toll 1,090||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh became the fourth state to cross the one lakh Covid-19 cases milestone on Monday with 6,051 more people testing positive, even as the state reported 49 more deaths. The cumulative tally now stands at 1,02,349, while the toll rose to 1,090. Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu crossed one lakh cases long ago, while Karnataka joined AP on Monday. AP breached the 10,000 case mark on June 24, nearly 100 days after the state reported its first case on March 12. But it took only 33 days to record the next 90,000 cases to touch the one lakh milestone. Of the 49 deaths on Monday, nine are from West Godavari, eight from Visakhapatnam, seven each from Chittoor and East Godavari, five from Krishna, four from Vizianagaram, three from Anantapur, two each from Kurnool and Srikakulam, and one each from Kadapa and Prakasam districts. About 3,250 Covid-19 patients recovered from the pandemic on Monday. There are currently 51,701 active cases with 49,558 recoveries and 1,090 deaths, reflecting a recovery rate of 48.4%. The overall mortality rate stood at 1.06%. East Godavari reported 1,210 new cases on Monday, followed by Guntur 744, Kurnool 664, Visakhapatnam 655 and Anantapur 524. Guntur and Anantapur districts have now crossed the 10,000-case mark. East Godavari continued to remain as the top Covid-19 hotspot in the state with 14,696 cases, followed by Kurnool 12,234. The case positivity rate of the state increased to 6.07%. The state has so far tested 16.86 lakh samples, including the 43,127 tests conducted between 9 am on Sunday and 9 am on Monday. Meanwhile, the state government has now capped the cost of rapid antigen test for private laboratories at Rs 750.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-fourth-state-to-record-over-1-lakh-covid-19-cases-toll-1090/articleshow/77209353.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Kochi||Minister’s remarks irk Chellanam residents||Kochi: Fisheries minister J Mercykutty Amma’s statement about sea-erosion at Chellanam coastal village has irked its residents. While speaking to a news channel about severe sea-flooding that hit the coast last week, the minister had said there was no permanent solution to the sea erosion and people, who reside within 50m from the sea, have to cooperate with the government’s rehabilitation project. Residents said the sea has flooded and caused damage to houses that are situated 200m away from the sea. They said the government rehabilitation programme ‘punargeham’, which envisages the rehabilitation of 18,865 coastal families, living within 50m from the coastline, by giving each of them Rs.10 lakh to buy land and construct houses, will not be of any use to Chellanam residents as the sea water floods most of the panchayats every time there is a sea-erosion. The protest is also trending on social media under the #savechellanam hashtag. Mercykutty had said the residents of coastal villages in Ernakulam, especially Chellanam, are not cooperating with the rehabilitation project. Residents also questioned the practicability of the much-hyped and stalled geotube project, worth Rs.7.5crore, in Chellanam, as the minister said the project will not be a practical solution to the sea-erosion in the area. Meanwhile, the irrigation department is proceeding with the project despite residents’ protest. V T Sebastian, one of the patrons of Chellanam Janakiya Vedi that has been protesting for more than 250 days, said the only solution to the erosion woes is the construction of strong seawall and breakwaters. “Evicting people in the name of rehabilitation is what the changing governments have been doing. Government should take measures to reclaim the beaches instead of letting the sea take it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ministers-remarks-irk-chellanam-residents/articleshow/77207681.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Nashik||Minister’s daughter served as Covid doctor||NASHIK: First-time state minister K C Padavi’s daughter Aadima worked as a doctor in the Covid-19 ward of a private hospital in Mumbai for almost two-and-a-half months. Though she had to leave the job a few days ago to prepare for admission to a medical college for PG studies, she discharged her duty as a doctor despite her family’s initial apprehensions. Aadima, who completed her MBBS course and internship, was waiting for the admission process for studies when the pandemic broke out. She insisted that her training as a doctor was needed in the time of crisis and enlisted to work in a private Covid-19 hospital in Mumbai. The 24-year-old worked round-the-clock over the past two-and-a-half months. She has already cleared her NEET-PG examination. “I volunteered to treat Covid-19 patients. My family was scared, but I convinced them that I have become a doctor to cure patients. I cannot be a spectator when there is a need for doctors. My family understood and backed me,” Aadima told TOI. The proud father and senior Congress MLA from Nandurbar district said he was proud of his daughter. “As a doctor, she has a responsibility towards the patients,” he said. Aadima admitted that the work at the hospital was strenuous. “My working hours ranged from 8 to 12 hours a day wearing PPE kits. But I was so engrossed in my work that time flew by,” she said. She said she felt the greatest satisfaction when cured patients, especially the ones in their 70s and 80s with multiple comorbidities, would thank the doctors after their discharge. “I would request all young doctors to come forward and treat Covid-19 patients. It is altogether a different experience for doctors to treat such patients,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ministers-daughter-served-as-covid-doc/articleshow/77204792.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
July 28, 2020||Kochi||Security guard dies in ambulance, negligence alleged||Kochi: R Vijay Kumar (53) from North Paravoor – who worked as a security guard at an apartment complex in Choornikkara for the past 18 months – died, allegedly, due to medical negligence at district government hospital in Aluva on Monday morning. The collector has sought a report from the district medical officer while state human rights commission has asked the director of health services to submit a report within three weeks. Kumar was struggling with breathing difficulties around 7am, said members of the apartment. “A resident found him in bed. Kumar told that he had taken some medicine to remedy his breathing problem and needed some rest. As his condition didn’t improve, we called for an ambulance around 7.45am. We also tried to hire a double chambered taxi in vain. We tied the ambulance again and it came by 9am. He got into the vehicle and we told the ambulance driver to rush him to the hospital and association members would turn up in a while. We alerted his family in Paravoor,” said Meera Narayanan, president of Amity Periyar Sarovar Owners Residents’ Association. She added that the driver, Dinesh KR, called on reaching the hospital. “He said authorities weren’t ready to admit him as there was no bystander. We asked (the hospital) to admit him as association members were on their way. I got a call from the hospital RMO, around 10.10am, saying he had expired,” she said. “We reached casualty by 9.15am and told the staff that Kumar had fever and breathing difficulties. Doctor and nurse didn’t see him for 10 minutes; they were discussing who should check him. They asked me and my colleague to take him to the fever clinic and there also the staff refused to admit him as there was no bystander. After 15 minutes, we were sent to isolation ward for Covid test. By the time we reached the ward, he died in the vehicle. A doctor and nurse declared him dead. We did not see doctor or nurse in PPE kit. The hospital delayed his treatment and he died. If anyone cared, he would have been alive, said Dinesh. Narayanan said Kumar’s test result came negative later in the evening. Hospital authorities refuted the allegation saying that Kumar was brought dead. “He was transported from a containment zone and patients from such zones are taken to the isolation ward. We took up his case after he was referred to the isolation ward. He was brought dead,” said medical superintendent Dr Prasanna Kumari. A district health official said when patients with serious illness are brought to a hospital, he/she should be stabilized first before further referral. This decision was taken at the district-level meet to so that such incidents don’t recur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/security-guard-dies-in-ambulance-negligence-alleged/articleshow/77206120.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Indore||Corona curbs force traders to lay off staff||Indore: Retailers and wholesalers are laying off employees to cut operational costs amid a slump in domestic demand after outbreak of Coronavirus that left businesses crumbled while thrice a week business in the city has further prompted many to reduce manpower. Traders across markets including Siyaganj, Maharani Road, Ranipura, Jail Road and key bay compound among others have laid off workers in past months to reduce operational cost. Traders said, most shops have reduced the manpower to just half due to a sharp drop in business activities and social distancing norms to combat the spread of pandemic. Siyaganj Wholesale Kirana Merchant Association president Ramesh Khandelwal said, “Shops have re-opened after relaxation but business has reduced to half. People are buying just hand to mouth and only essential items due to financial constraints. To survive, shops have to lay off staff otherwise they will get shut.” While many laid off staff permanently, a few chalked out plans to pay less for few months amid liquidity crisis. Small retailers and wholesalers are the worst hit and have laid off most manpower. Shop owners of Maharani Road claimed just about 20 per cent business since resumption of trade. Rajesh Maheshwari, president, Madhya Pradesh Electrical Traders Association said, “Running expenses are fixed and very high. In the current scenario, most shops are not even earning enough to pay monthly expenses. It’s a very difficult situation for everyone and traders are forced to cut down on manpower.”  Some traders said, many workers have agreed to take less for a few months rather than permanently losing the job. Traders said the left/right formula has further dampened the business because buyers are not able to keep a track of days. They said as shops are opening just thrice in a week, the workload has also come down. Shekhar Khanna, president, Indore Scooter Traders Association said, “Majority of shops in our business are on rent ranging from Rs 25,000 to Rs 40,000 per month. Income is not that great these days to pay such heavy rent and other fixed expenses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/corona-curbs-force-traders-to-lay-off-staff/articleshow/77204790.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Aurangabad||66 new Covid cases, 6 deaths in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: As many as 23 new Covid-19 cases from the municipal limits of Aurangabad city and 43 more from the rural areas were reported in the district on Monday, taking the tally of positive cases to 13,104. Of the 43 new cases reported from the rural areas, 21 cases were reported from Vaijapur alone. A 40-year-old prominent social activist was among the six people who succumbed to Covid-19 at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Monday, taking the death toll in the district to 443. The activist, a resident of Silk Mills colony in the Aurangabad railway station area, was admitted to GMCH on July 13. The reports of his throat swab samples, which arrived the following day, confirmed that he had contracted Covid-19. He was already suffering from diabetes mellitus, hypertension and depression. His cause of death was given as acute respiratory distress syndrome with cytokine storm with coagulopathy with bilateral pneumonitis in Covid-19 in case of diabetes mellitus with hypertension and depression. Currently, 207 patients are being treated at the GMCH, of which the condition of 129 patients is said to be critical. Hospital authorities said that till date, the GMCH has recorded 342 Covid-related deaths. The addition of the new cases on Monday has taken the active case count in the district to 4,125. So far, 8,536 patients have recovered and been discharged from different hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/66-new-covid-cases-6-deaths-in-aurangabad/articleshow/77204786.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana high court ready to suspend interim order on import of maize||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Monday made it clear that it would suspend the interim order that allowed the Centre to permit import of higher quantities of maize at lesser import duties without imposing the actual user condition. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said this while hearing scores of pleas by farmers and traders. The bench, however, said that since a coordinate bench had passed an ex-parte order without it having the opportunity of hearing relevant parties, it would vacate that order. The case was posted to August second week for a final hearing. Senior counsel S Niranjan Reddy, appearing for one of the importers, said he has no objection to forgo the support of that order provided the bench resolves the main issue in an expedient manner. “In the name of espousing the cause of the farmers, some petitioners are trying to stall the Centre’s foreign trade policy,” he said. “In the name of protecting our farmers, if we create hurdles in the import of maize, our 99% export of maize gets adversely affected,” the senior counsel explained. To a query as to why the Centre is unable to say so before this court, Niranjan said that there is an interim order from this court restricting the import of maize. The bench told him that nothing prevented the Centre from conveying its policy to the court and get the stay vacated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-ready-to-suspend-interim-order-on-maize-import/articleshow/77207660.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
July 28, 2020||Bhopal||As Covid cases spike in Madhya Pradesh, BJP cancels all virtual rallies||BHOPAL: The spike in Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh has compelled BJP to cancel all its virtual rallies and public gatherings ahead of bypolls on 26 seats. Top leaders, including state president VD Sharma and organising general secretary Suhas Bhagat, have restricted movement after they tested negative for Covid-19 on Saturday. Sources said that apart from some ministers, who had attended the cabinet meeting with chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and his colleague Arvind Bhadoria — both have tested Covid — several MLAs have also quarantined themselves. After chief minister Chouhan was hospitalised, the BJP has not announced new plans for virtual rallies in 26 assembly constituencies where bypolls are likely to be held. “We have cancelled all party programmes and postponed virtual rallies in view of sudden increase in Covid-19 cases and guidelines issued by the government. Party’s next programme will be announced as per the situation,” said BJP state media in-charge Lokendra Parashar. “All the virtual rallies planned were over. There is no new plan. Some programmes related to various fronts will not be organised now. The party has issued strict guidelines to follow social distancing norms and use of face masks,” said state BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal. Sources further disclosed that former chief minister Uma Bharti, cabinet ministers Mahendra Singh Sisodia, Inder Singh Parmar, MLAs Ajay Vishnoi, Gopal Bhargava and Bhupendra Singh have tested negative for the coronavirus. State panchayat and rural development minister Sisodia will quarantine himself after four of his staff in Guna tested Covid positive. “Four of my staff members have tested Covid positive. However, my test report has been declared negative. Still, on doctor’s advice, I have quarantined myself at home for five days,” tweeted Sisodia. Similarly, school education minister Parmar also went into quarantine after his personal secretary tested positive for Covid-19. Parmar, who was scheduled to declare the Class 12 results on Monday, did not attend the programme. Reports from Piparia in Hoshangabad district were also not favourable as BJP MLA from Piparia assembly seat Thakur Das Nagvanshi disclosed that he tested Covid positive on Monday. Officials said that Nagvanshi would be shifted to Chirayu Hospital in Bhopal for Covid treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/as-covid-cases-spike-in-state-bjp-cancels-all-virtual-rallies/articleshow/77208544.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Kolhapur||KMC issues orders to recruit medical staff||KOLHAPUR: With the rise in the number of positive cases, especially critical cases, necessitating the need for more Covid care centres and the civic administration grappling with shortage of medical and paramedical staff, municipal commissioner Mallinath Kalshetti has issued orders to recruit doctors, nurses, lab technicians and microbiologists immediately. Kalshetti said, “We are starting Covid care centres at several places. In the coming three to four days, a centre will be started at Sainik Darbar hall with a capacity of 125 to 150 beds. We have also acquired 27 private hospitals, of which 17 have already started administering treatment to Covid-19 patients. We have assured the private hospitals to provide adequate staff for treating patients. We are recruiting staff both for the new Covid care centres and the private hospitals.” Kalshetti said the doctors and nurses attending to Covid-19 patients would be provided with personal protective equipment (PPE) and if any of them gets infected, they would be treated free of cost. Kalshetti’s statement comes in the wake of the poor response to the recruitment advertisement published a few days ago. The recruitment would be on a contractual basis. Considering the demand for high salary, the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has finally increased the salary of the nurses to Rs 20,000 from Rs 12,000 quoted earlier. The revised advertisement states that doctors, BAMS and BHMS graduates with five years of experience can apply. Kalshetti said, “We will be needing more doctors and supporting staff in the coming days. We are increasing the isolation centres. We are also starting home isolation for the asymptomatic patients. Our doctors will pay a visit to such patients regularly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-issues-orders-to-recruit-medical-staff/articleshow/77204803.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||BJP accuses CPM of taking bribes||Thiruvananthapuram: BJP state president K Surendran has alleged the CPM was collecting huge money as bribes from consultancy agencies that LDF government had appointed violating all norms. In a virtual news conference, Surendran alleged that CPM was the beneficiary of corruption through consultancy agencies. “CPM central committee supports the state government in the gold smuggling case only because the party shares the booty. The KFON project entails a graft of Rs 500 crore. The major beneficiary of the project is CPM-controlled Uralungal Labour Contract Society. Government extended unrestricted patronage to them,” he said. Surendran also alleged conspiracy and graft in the alleged move by the state government to take over a resort in Kanjhangad, which he claimed was funded by Robert Vadra and C C Thampi, who was booked by ED in a money laundering case. The government has started giving consultancy work to KPMG since 2016. Later they were awarded several major consultancy works, including that of Rebuild Kerala project. “There was huge corruption involved in all such contracts. The consultancy was one of the favourites of the government as a share of the graft reached CPM,” he alleged. Surendran said the CPM and the government could not escape from their responsibility in the gold smuggling case by b;aming Swapna Suresh and M Sivasankar for it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/bjp-accuses-cpm-of-taking-bribes/articleshow/77206148.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Nashik||Over 4,000 auto drivers booked||Nashik: Ever since the lockdown began on March 25, city traffic police have taken action against 4,118 errant autorickshaw drivers for either clandestine operation or carrying more than the permissible number of passengers for emergency. A fine of around Rs 10 lakh has also been slapped on them. “Autorickshaws have been banned from ferrying passengers and they can ferry passengers only if there is a medical emergency,” a traffic police officer said, adding that only two passengers are allowed to travel in a rickshaw at a time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/over-4000-auto-drivers-booked/articleshow/77204811.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Clerics seek mosque at the same site||Hyderabad: Clerics and scholars of various Muslim organisations have said that they will move the Supreme Court if a mosque is not reconstructed at the place it was demolished on the secretariat premises. They have also sought a roll back of the map designed for the construction of the new secretariat. The clerics and scholars discussed a public march against the government’s move in a meeting headed by Mushtaq Malik, the convener of a joint action committee, Bazyabi Masajids. “All possible efforts are being made to divert the issue but all the clerics and scholars have unanimously come to a conclusion that there will be no compromise in the mosque construction matter. The design clearly shows that mosque has been relocated from its earlier place, which is not acceptable to us,’’ said Malik. Other members of the committee alleged that four mosques and two Ashoorkhanas had been razed down during the present regime. Silence of Muslim leaders was deplored by Maulana Abdul Moghni Al Mazhari, the president of Jamiat Ulema Hind Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/clerics-seek-mosque-at-the-same-site/articleshow/77207628.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Ludhiana||Factory owners in MLU areas demand focal point||Ludhiana: Amid the ongoing controversy surrounding the proposed industrial park project near Mattewara, city businessmen who have their factories in mix land use (MLU) areas are now demanding that the state government scouts for a suitable land for them near Ludhiana to establish a focal point, where only the factory owners having units in MLU areas should be allotted plots. According to businessmen, the rate of land too should be fixed at nominal rates so that the micro and small industry can afford to buy these. Atul Saggar, general secretary of Apparels Manufacturers Association Ludhiana, said, “The factories located in MLU areas like Shivpuri, Sundar Nagar, Janta Nagar, Chandan Nagar and Haibowal, etc. are unable to expand their existing factories due to shortage of land and restrictions imposed by various departments in MLU areas. Moreover, these days the labour also likes to stay put only near the designated industrial areas and the labour availability in MLU areas is already witnessing a drop year on year basis. Also in any case after 2022 the factories of MLU areas have to move out of these to designated industrial areas. Therefore, considering all these points the state government should make a dedicated focal point for the factories of MLU areas but it should be located near Ludhiana and moreover, the land cost should be kept very nominal so that the micro and small units can afford shifting.” Inderjit Singh Navyug, former president of the United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association, said, “The sword of shifting of industries located in MLU areas to designated industrial areas is hanging on thousands of micro and small units located in every nook and corner of the city. The deadline of the shifting is fast approaching but the government has not come out with any plan that how and where the factories of MLU areas will be shifted. Therefore, we request the government and industries department to take notice of this serious problem and establish a focal point for the factories located in MLU areas at the earliest.” Meanwhile, reacting to the demand of the industrialists, Gurpreet Singh Gogi, chairman of Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC), said, “ A few days ago our department had apprised businessmen that we are looking for suitable land for the purpose of establishing a new focal point for industry and we will make sure the preference will be given to the factories located in MLU areas. I am aware about the concern of the businessmen about the rates of the plots and that too will be taken care of while finalising the project.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/factory-owners-in-mlu-areas-demand-focal-point/articleshow/77207686.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: As pandemic forces parents out of jobs, children go to work||CHENNAI: At a handcart parked along Tiruvottiyur High Road, a teenager helps his mother sell apples, calling out cheerfully to passersby. At a small unit that makes pressure cookers at Kodungaiyur in the northern part of the city, another teenager is learning to be a machine operator. Both are skipping online classes to earn money for the family after their fathers lost their jobs. The lockdown has forced children, both girls and boys, to call time on their studies. Akash, the 13-year-old selling apples with his mother, was well regarded by his teachers at the Tiruvotriyur higher secondary school. In fact, they went looking for him when they couldn’t spot him during the online lessons. “It is difficult to sit in the heat and dust the whole day selling apples,” Akash told TOI, unable to reconcile himself with the sudden turn of events in his life. All was well until three months back, when his father, Suresh, a welder, was sacked from the company he was working for. Now Akash helps his mother earn Rs 100 extra a day. Giridharan, the Class X student training to be a machine operator, has a similar story. His father, a welder, fell sick and he had no choice but to share his mother’s burden of running the family of five. “What can I do? If I don’t work, we will not get three meals a day,” he said. Giridharan said they are paying a monthly chit, which will mature in two months. “Once we get that money, I will stop working and get back to school,” he said with hope. Such heart-rending stories are becoming commonplace across the state. U Muniramaiha, headmaster of a high school in Kodungaiyur, said many of his students have taken to selling vegetables and fruits. “Some have joined super markets as sales persons and helpers,” he said. Class X and Class XII students of corporation-run schools in Chennai have been given smartphones to take part in online classes. However, corporation officials say hardly 10% of the 83,000-odd children attend online classes, and they are not simply playing truant. They have to work as their parents have lost regular jobs. Peter Raja, state president of the Tamil Nadu Headmasters Association, said it will be a challenge to get them back in school. “At least 20% of these children who have started working may drop out permanently,” he said. The state government had through several policy initiatives and concerted efforts on the ground managed to bring down the dropout rate from government schools from 8% in 2005-2006 to 1.5% in 2017-2018. “But the present situation is different. There is uncertainty and families can’t even afford food,” said a headmaster. Teachers have, however, started visiting the houses of absentee children to counsel their parents against sending them to work. Dheeraj Kumar, secretary, school education department, said it was not only about children dropping out of school; it was also about child labour. “We have started discussions with district officials and parent-teachers associations to examine the issue. By August first week, we will make decisions to ensure these children do not miss out on education,” he said. A Anitha, chief education officer of Chennai district, said they will ensure all these students join school again. “I will hold a meeting with the headmasters and ensure we get these children back,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/as-pandemic-forces-parents-out-of-jobs-children-go-to-work/articleshow/77207688.cms||Komal Gautham
July 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Engineering students in a fix over lack of clarity on exams||HYDERABAD: Even though there is no clarity on promotion of students - with or without the examinations - many engineering colleges across the state have started online classes for second to fourth year students. Following a review meeting held with higher education department officials on July 16, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had announced that the new academic year for engineering students will commence on August 17. The CM had also announced that examinations for final year students will be held as per the Central and University Grants Commission guidelines while promoting the others. While the CM had made it clear that all other students except final year will be promoted, the government’s failure in issuing a government order declaring the same has led to massive confusion among many. Students rue that there is no clarity over semester exams and awarding of grades etc. Hence, starting online classes for the next semester is only adding to the confusion. “How can the colleges resume online classes for the next semester when we don’t have any clarity on whether our exams will be conducted for the previous semester or whether we will be promoted? We are hanging between two semesters simultaneously,” said Ch Prudhvi, a B.Tech second year student. The Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University’s (JNTU-H) notification issued on Monday over remittance of semester exam fee also came as a surprise for many. “After receiving permission from the state government for conducting semester exams, the semester examination dates will be announced. Simultaneously, all registration portals will be made active for fresh registrations (with applicable late fee),” reads the notification. Students have raised concerns over the higher education institutions’ move to collect exam fee without any clarity on whether the exams will be held or not. “The university has collected exam fee from all students. Now if the government plans to cancel semester exams for all students except those in final year, will the university refund the fees?” questioned Vamshi Reddy, a student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/engg-students-in-a-fix-over-lack-of-clarity-on-exams/articleshow/77207684.cms||Preeti Biswas
July 28, 2020||Bareilly||Allow Muslims to offer prayers at mosque, Eidgah on Eid-ul-Zuha: AIMIM||Bareilly: After the state government issued guidelines for Eid-ul-Zuha and permitted only five people to offer prayers at mosques, party workers of All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) in Bareilly on Monday sent a memorandum to UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath to reconsider the guidelines. AIMIM workers said they should be allowed to offer prayers at mosques and Eidgah from 7am to 10am on August 1 following the social distancing protocol. Eid-ul-Zuha will be observed on August 1. AIMIM’s Bareilly district president Mohd Aslam said, “We have sent a memorandum to the chief minister demanding permission to offer Eid prayers at mosques or Eidgah for three hours in the morning following social distancing norms. We have also demanded weekend relaxation on August 1 and 2 in the state so that people can easily commute for purchase of animals for sacrifice.” The AIMIM workers asked the government to give clear instructions to its officials for Eid-ul-Zuha to be celebrated with communal harmony and a tab must be kept on anti-social elements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/allow-muslims-to-offer-prayers-at-mosque-eidgah-on-eid-ul-zuha-aimim/articleshow/77203769.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
July 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid derails research at varsities||Hyderabad: Mallesh Kampally, 30, a PhD scholar of Osmania University (OU), had hoped to complete his research work in cancer biology by June and affix ‘Dr’ before his name by December. That, however is now a remote possibility due to the Covid-19 crisis, forcing him to get back to farming at Achampet in Nagarkurnool district. Mallesh is among 3,430 research scholars in Telangana whose research work has been severely affected by the pandemic. Closure of universities has disrupted their research as they lack access to study material, research samples in labs and their guides. “All the effort that I had put in the last four years has gone down the drain now as live samples of fungus, collected by me from Nallamalla forest, have all dried up. Once the university reopens, I will have to start field work from scratch,” he said. Many research scholars have gone back to their hometowns and now depend on study material online. The UGC granted an extension of six months to all PhD and MPhil scholars to complete their thesis. However, faculty admit that the uncertainty over resumption of research work was affecting research scholars. “Even if a student is affected by Covid-19, the entire lab or classes will have to be shut,” said professor Kandaswamy Ulaganathan of Centre for Plant Molecular Biology, OU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-derails-research-at-varsities/articleshow/77207687.cms||Preeti Biswas
July 28, 2020||Bhopal||Private schools can ask for tuition fee, Madhya Pradesh govt tells court||BHOPAL/JABALPUR: The state government in its reply to a petition on determination of school fee by the private schools during the period of their closure due to Coronavirus pandemic, told a division bench of Madhya Pradesh high court that the private schools can ask for tuition fee during the period and an order to this effect has already been issued. The court was also told that online classes of children up to Class 5 have been discontinued as the petitioners had requested the court to order discontinuation of online classes as it harms the vision of the children and is not good for their overall health. The petition filed by NG Najpande and Rajat Bhargava is being heard by the division bench of Chief Justice A K Mittal and Justice V K Shukla after single-judge bench at Gwalior and Indore bench passed a contradictory order on the issue of school fee. While Gwalior bench upheld the state government order to allow the private schools to only charge tuition fee from the students, Indore bench had stayed the order. The division bench, after taking the state government’s reply on record, asked all the other respondents in the case to file a reply on the petition. The case would now come up for hearing on August 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/pvt-schools-can-ask-for-tuition-fee-govt-tells-court/articleshow/77208546.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi: Get farm fresh vegetables at your doorstep||HUBBALLI: To make the vegetables available at doorstep in view of fears to Covid-19 pandemic, V Baskets, an organisation of MJ Groups Dharwad, has launched mobile vegetable vans for the benefit of the residents in Hubballi and for the benefit of vegetable growers. Since the vegetables are being directly purchased from farmers, residents would get fresh vegetables at a much cheaper rate. The organisation has already procured eight vans for this service and is planning to add eight more to its fleet soon. The service will be started from Monday. Sunanda Sajjanrao More, Partner of MJ Groups, told TOI that the idea was pitched during lockdown 1.0. “We were involved in mango business adoorstepnd in touch with farmers. We came to know that farmers were getting meagre price for their produces while consumers in the city were paying high price holding lockdown responsible. When I discussed it with my husband Sajjanrao More, a businessman, he checked pros and cons for two days. When we approached some banks with this plan, they denied to give loans. Hence my husband sold his flat located in an apartment in Pune. He enhanced our plan to create jobs for wards of farmers. Now we have taken a godown on rental basis and have set three processing units in Belur industrial area to grade and clean some vegetables like tomato. We have purchased eight vans from which seven will be deployed to sell vegetables in twin city and one will be deployed to pick vegetables from farmers’ fields. We will work on the lines of BPO. With this initiative farmers will get better price while consumers get veggies at 30-40% lesser price to the market” she explained. Anand Jadhav, another partner, said that 25 volunteers are appointed from farmers’ families and they will be paid remuneration of Rs 280 per day to handle vegetables and they know the pains and markets hurdles faced by farmers. They are trained to communicate with consumers and are entitled to follow Covid-19 norms by wearing face mask, shield mask, hand gloves and use hand sanitisers often. Box Consumers can place their order by whatsapp on mobile number: 98456-95951 from Monday. Eom/25.7.20/by Sangamesh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/get-farm-fresh-vegetables-at-your-doorstep/articleshow/77206118.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
July 28, 2020||Vijayawada||IIM-Vizag picks five start-ups to incubate||Visakhapatnam: The Indian Institute of Management, Visakhapatnam (IIM-V) has selected five start-ups to incubate under the Technology Incubation and Development of Entrepreneurs (Tide 2.0) project. The five start-ups that have made the cut are: ProSafe, INOVMAC Pvt Ltd, Snazzyalign, HeamacHealthcare Pvt Ltd and Urban Naps. The incubator, IIM-V, will get a grant-in-aid of Rs 1.7 crore from the ministry of electronics and information technology (MeiTY) to play the role of an angel investor in these start-ups. MeiTY has sanctioned IIM-V as a G3C (Group-3 Centre) incubator. G3Cs, according to the MeiTY website, are supposed to ‘initiate and evangelize innovation and entrepreneurship ecosystems in unexplored regions’. For the purpose of this project, IIM-V has floated the IIMV Foundation for Incubation, Entrepreneurial Learning & Development (IIMV-FIELD). The Tide centre has to be operated as a Section 8 company with a mandate to nurture and support technology start-ups. IIM-V director Prof M Chandrasekhar said that the application window for the G3C opened in the last week of February. “A total of 123 applications were received in two categories, 71 in ‘grants’ and 52 in ‘entrepreneur in residence’. Nearly 30% of the applicants were women,” he said. He added that upon receiving applications, 24 applicants were shortlisted and interviewed by a screening committee comprising professors of IIM-V as well as IIM Bangalore. “The start-ups selected under ‘entrepreneur in residence’ category are ProSafe, INOVMAC Pvt Ltd and Snazzyalign. These three will be given a prototyping grant of Rs 2.66 lakh each in the first year,” Prof Chandrasekhar added. The start-ups selected under the grants category are: HeamacHealthcare Pvt Ltd and Urban Naps. These two start-ups will receive a commercialisation grant of Rs 7 lakh each in the form of equity in the first year. The Tide 2.0 initiative has been launched by MeiTY with an objective of assisting institutes of higher education to strengthen their technology incubation centres and enable young entrepreneurs to set up technology start-ups for commercial exploitation of the technologies developed by them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/iim-vizag-picks-five-start-ups-to-incubate/articleshow/77206158.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
July 28, 2020||Ludhiana||City lacking green cover, still MC ‘abandons’ parks upkeep||Ludhiana: The city where green cover is already lacking, certain green belts and parks have been ‘abandoned’ by the civic body in the absence of manpower and finances. These green belts and public parks can be developed into lush green spaces for the public and green lungs of the city but for the past so many years no attention is being paid towards the same. The green belts along the old GT Road have been crying for attention for a long time. The boundary walls are damaged and at some places people have even started throwing debris inside. The fountains are not functional and are damaged. Similarly, the green belt near Cheema Chowk got vanished completely due to the ongoing construction work of an elevated road project. The construction material has been kept in the green belt and it has lost its sheen completely. Meanwhile, one of the oldest parks of the city, Chattar Singh Park in Model Town, is under renovation. Recently constructed walls have collapsed and residents are worried about a garbage dump coming up in the park. They rued how people will come to the park when there will be garbage dump around. The park is in a mess these days as the fountain inside the park has been dismantled and is giving a shabby look to the park. While complaining, an activist and resident of Model Town, Gurpal Grewal said, “I am grieved to see the condition of Chattar Singh Park as there is mess all around. How can the recently constructed walls collapse in two months.” He said one dump is coming in the park, so in the smell of garbage nobody can even pass from there and morning or evening walk is impossible. He claimed that they need to raise voice, otherwise everything will be turned into concrete. Another resident from Shivpuri Pankaj Saluja said there was a central verge in Shivpuri area but there were hardly any plants on the central verge and at some locations the central verge was broken. He said similar was the condition of the green belts along the GT road, where the purpose to develop a green belt had been lost. He claimed that officials do plantation every year but why these locations are not selected, so that there was some development even here. A resident from Haibowal Meenu Malhotra said the city has almost turned into concrete jungle of buildings and if there were any green spaces, then those are either under encroachment or are not maintained properly. She said the authorities should wake up from their slumber and pay attention towards these things as well. However, on the other hand zonal commissioner of MC Neeraj Jain said, “The major problem is of manpower due to which we are unable to take the load of maintaining green belts and parks of the city. Secondly, in the absence of funds only very essential things are taken up.” He said now they were planning to take up such abandoned spaces under the smart city mission and at least renovation could take place and then they could take over the care of plantation in these parks. Acute staff crunch The horticulture branch of the MC is facing acute shortage of staff. Against sanctioned posts of 640 gardeners and beldars only 175 are working, out of which 96 are permanent while others are on daily wages. There is no landscaping officer in the branch for a long time and executive engineer charge is with an officer from bridges and road department. There are total 870 public parks in the city within MC limits and out of these 606 are being handled by the park management committee comprising active residents of the area who are taking care of the parks. Still there is a responsibility of the civic body to maintain 264 public parks, including big parks of the city like Rose Garden, Leisure Valley, Children Park, Mini Rose Garden, etc. and then there is also 76km-long central verge is also there for development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-lacking-green-cover-still-mc-abandons-parks-upkeep/articleshow/77207694.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata's Bhowanipore: Area with containment-zone tag for longest time||KOLKATA: Bhowanipore’s wait to get out of the list of Kolkata’s containment zones is getting longer. From the first day in the first week of this month — and all through the past three weeks when the list was updated several times — some area or other of Bhowanipore remained there on the list. The latest addition is a complex located on Mohini Mohan Road. The area now has as many as five containment zones, two of them on Sarat Bose Road bordering Ballygunge. Chakraberia Road, which figured thrice on the containment list, is, however, out of it now. A part of Elgin Road, too, is now a new containment zone. The two other containment zones lie close to Bhowanipore, one at Panditya Road and the other at Justice Chandra Madhab Road. Around 70 cops have been deployed in these zones and the KMC is deploying two teams each day for swab collection in and around this area. Though enforcement of strict lockdowns has helped the civic body combat the virus in Bhowanipore, it has also posed a challenge for cops and KMC officials to reach out to a section of elderly people, who find it difficult to go out and buy essentials, including life-saving drugs. “Often we are approached by elderly people to help them by delivering the essentials. Sometimes we respond to to their need but in some cases we fail because of the manpower crunch,”said a KMC health department official. Ward coordinator Ashim Bose said he has formed a quick response team to reach out to elderly people in times of serious medical emergencies. “I often get calls during odd hours at night from elderly citizens for medical help. I sometimes arrange for hospitalization of serious patients at government hospitals and nursing homes given the dearth of beds,” Bose said. According to a KMC health department official, the root cause of a spurt in Covid cases, especially in Bhowanipore, lies in not following the Covid norms and taking advantage of Unlock-1. Significantly, all fresh cases in Bhowanipore are being reported from high-rises, apartment buildings and stand-alone buildings. All the five containment zones are located in areas dotted with apartment buildings. The KMC health department officials have been asked to be extra vigilant in large areas of Bhowanipore, Sarat Bose Road and Hazra Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bhowanipore-area-with-c-zone-tag-for-longest-time/articleshow/77207690.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Lecturers’ association demands contract renewal||Hyderabad: The Telangana State Government Colleges Contract Lecturers Association demanded that the state renew contracts of lecturers working in government junior and degree colleges and start online classes for students. They said that the CM should hold a review meeting with the education department again and discuss intermediate and degree admissions, among other things. “The CM should give clarity on starting intermediate and degree admissions through online mode,” said G Ramana Reddy, president of the association. They said the contract lecturers have been taking part in online training and webinars and said that it’s time to renew their contracts and pay them June salary. They demanded regularization of jobs and said that the CM should intervene and ensure that the state takes up transfers of contract lecturers, gives them dearness allowance (DA) and house rent allowance (HRA), job security, health insurance, and address their other concerns. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lecturers-association-demands-contract-renewal/articleshow/77207693.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Chittoor farmer tills land with new tractor from Sonu Sood||TIRUPATI: Farming was an enjoyable experience for the family of V Nageswara Rao on Monday after they received a brand-new tractor from Good Samaritan and Bollywood actor Sonu Sood. The happiness of the farmer’s family was visible on their faces when Rao along with his wife V Lalitha and two daughters V Vennela and V Chandana ploughed their agricultural land at Maharajupalli village in KV Palli mandal of Chittoor district with the help of the new tractor. Rao and his family members made headlines only 48 hours ago after the videos of his two daughters pulling the plough to till the land went viral. The family suffered heavily due to Covid-19 lockdown and restrictions. Unable to buy or take bullocks on rent, the family of four decided to plough their agricultural field on their own. While the young girls took the place of oxen, the parents guided the plough to take up Khariff operations. Actor Sonu Sood who was moved by the plight of the family, and gifted them a tractor, which reached them on Monday. The family didn’t even have to buy fuel as the vehicle was filled up. Speaking to TOI, Rao said Sonu Sood’s assistants stayed back at their village and even ensured that the remaining fittings needed for the new tractor were fixed. The farmer had a few rounds of video-calls with Sonu Sood that added to their thrill, even as crowds from the neighbouring villages and news scribes continued to queue up to meet Rao, the new celebrity of the sleepy Maharajupalli village throughout Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/chittoor-farmer-tills-land-with-new-tractor-from-sonu-sood/articleshow/77206175.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
July 28, 2020||Dehradun||5-yr-old elephant hit by train near Dehradun, dies||Dehradun: A five-year-old male elephant died after being hit by the Dehradun-New Delhi Jan Shatabdi Express on Monday morning near Harrawala railway station, located close to Dehradun. The accident happened near Nakronda village of the district. According to forest officials, the jumbo was part of a herd of elephants that was crossing the track when the accident took place. “The pachyderm did not sustain any major injuries on its body but it died after falling into a deep nullah likely due to air pressure generated by the speeding train,” said Ghananan Uniyal, range officer of Lachhiwala forest range. According to the onlookers, the train had halted for some time after the accident. Sources told TOI that the forest department is mulling to register a case against the driver of the train. Barely 72 hours before, the decomposed carcass of another elephant had been found in Rajaji Tiger Reserve. Since the formation of the state in 2000, Uttarakhand has lost a total of 15 elephants to train accidents. The maximum deaths happened in 2018 when four elephants had died in train accidents, according to the data available with the state forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/5-yr-old-elephant-hit-by-train-near-dehradun-dies/articleshow/77206177.cms||Shivani Azad
July 28, 2020||Kochi||Engg students set up smart classroom for tribal students||Kochi: Nearly 70 school and college students of Kunjippara tribal settlement in Kuttampuzha forest range were struggling to access online classes due to absence of electricity supply, poor mobile network and zero internet connectivity. Today, they have a smart classroom at their only government school in the village, thanks to students of Viswajyothi College of Engineering (VJCET), Vazhakulam. The students, through their project ‘smart classroom among the woods’, set up a rooftop solar plant in the school to provide electricity and donated laptops and projector to set up a smart classroom. The tribal students can now access recorded videos of online sessions hassle free. The project was implemented with the funding from Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), world’s largest technical professional organization dedicated to advancing technology for the benefit of humanity. Around 15 students who are the members of IEEE Special Interest Group on Humanitarian Technology (Sight), a registered club of IEEE in VJCET, completed the project at a cost of around Rs.3.4 lakh. Kuttampuzha forest range officer Libin John said Kunjippara tribal settlement is located deep inside the woods of Kuttampuzha and can only be accessed by crossing a river and travelling miles on bone-jarring tracks through the forest. “The project had received the approval of forest department. Residents of the settlement have no access to electricity or any other technological developments. The smart classroom would provide an academic solution for more than 70 students from the area,” he said. Project mentor Prabin James said the Sight group of VJCET submitted to IEEE the idea of implementing a 2kW solar power plant for the school which will power academically helpful electronic gadgets such laptop, sound system and projector.“The project was selected as one of the best project proposals in Kerala and also bagged a fund of Rs. 3,40,000 to aid the implementation of the project,” he said. The project implementation was started in February 2020 under the guidance of professor Anish M Jose of electronics and communications department and under the leadership of final year student Albin Paul and third year student Ananthakrishnan S Nath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/engg-students-set-up-smart-classroom-for-tribal-students/articleshow/77207724.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Kolkata||Haridevpur: Area with non-slum pocket having maximum cases in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The city newest entrant in the containment list — Basusree Bagan on Ostad Amir Khan Sarani, a middle class neighbourhood of Haridevpur in east Behala — has already reported 18 Covid positive cases along a 300m stretch of a road. This pocket has thrown up the maximum number of cases from a non-slum area of the city. This has prompted police and the KMC to not only throw up a containment perimeter but also create a buffer zone around it. The last biggest spike was reported in the Gobindapur railway colony slums, which reported 23 cases at the same time. With the threat that Covid might spread further into Haridevpur on one side and Barisha in Behala, cops and Kolkata Municipal Corporation further sealed a few more by lanes connected to Ostad Amir Khan Sarani on Monday, extending the containment zone by another 150m-200m.  “We have seen a sudden spurt in mixed zones earlier, especially those having close proximity to slums. But this is unheard of in Behala, which has so far not reported so many cases from one spot. Most of the 850 cases reported from here have been spread across the huge area spanning between Taratala, Thakurpukur and Haridevpur. Most cases, however, have been reported from flats and stand-alone buildings,” explained a senior divisional officer. The officer added: “A comparison with Behala’s other containment zone will put things in perspective. At the Sodepur School area containment zone, there are just two active cases but there is a difference. Unlike the Sodepur School area, where a person died, no deaths have been reported from Basuree Bagan. This is why we have put maximum focus on this containment zone out of the three now there in Behala,” The KMC health department said it has already set up camps in the area to carry out swab tests. “We are also delivering the essential items to residents. With so many cases in the past week, complete shutdown of the area is likely to continue for another ten days to two weeks,” explained an officer. Locals blamed the unlock period for the sudden spurt of diseases. “The area has transportation issues. There was just one government bus service running and the autos ran packed. People were forced to travel in packed buses,” claimed Saptak Ganguly, a local and a college student. Basusree Bagan’s spurt in cases was enough to increase Behala’s Covid numbers, the other areas being Parnashree (where a third containment zone is located), Satyen Roy Road and Roy Bahadur Road. Cases have also been reported across Taratala, Sarsuna and Thakurpukur. While a couple of cases have been traced back to hospitals and nursing homes, the authorities have restricted market timings in several areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/haridevpur-area-with-non-slum-pocket-having-maximum-cases/articleshow/77207698.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Five-month-old puppies flung from bldg, one dies||HYDERABAD: In a rerun of the 2016 Chennai tragedy, two five-month-old puppies were allegedly thrown off the fifth floor of Bhanu Township apartments in Hafeezpet by the security guards on Sunday. According to the residents of the apartment, one puppy succumbed to the injuries, while the other one was grievously wounded from hitting the ground. A video footage shows a dog wailing in pain after falling in the shrubs behind the apartment. The incident came to light after a resident shared a recording of a phone conversation with three security guards Chandan, Rajesh and Pandey who were being questioned about the incident. In the recording, Rajesh was heard saying, “I went and asked him (Chandan) about the dogs, he said that he threw one of the dogs from the top because it had bitten Pandey.” However, Chandan, who was later added in the conference call denied allegations. “I just brought the dogs down from the terrace, I didn’t throw them,” he said. Speaking to TOI, a resident Saini Mitra said, “These puppies were staying inside the premises of the apartment with the mother dog for past few months. We were informed about the incident by Rajesh who is the security guard at the main gate. When I asked the apartment association to investigate the matter, they started abusing me and were asking me to pick up all the dogs from the street and keep them in my house.” “The security guards were also saying that the dog died after jumping from top of the building. Why will two dogs jump from the fifth floor of the building,” she questioned. The residents, who are yet to hear from the police after filing a complaint online, also said that the apartment association was checking the CCTV footage of the common areas to see if they can find any evidence. When contacted, one of the apartment association members said, “It is true that we found two dogs, one dead and one alive, in the area behind the apartments. But we don’t think anyone can commit such a crime. We have several dogs that keep coming inside and no one has ever harmed them.” The incident brings back memories of the 2016 incident in Chennai where two final year MBBS students threw a dog from the terrace of a three-storey building and uploaded the video footage on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/five-month-old-puppies-flung-from-bldg-one-dies/articleshow/77207689.cms||Moulika.KV
July 28, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Inquiry into Bongaon death||KOLKATA: After a 64-year-old trader died on Saturday night at the subdivisional hospital in Bingaon, a three-member committee has been formed by the hospital authorities to look into alleged negligence. The trader, Madhab Narayan Dutta, had collapsed and succumbed to breathing trouble at the hospital while trying to board an ambulance that was to shift him to a hospital in Kolkata. The hospital staffmembers and the ambulance driver had allegedly refused to lend a helping hand to the the man, fearing that he was a Covid patient. The report will have to be submitted within 48 hours of conducting the inquiry, said the hospital’s superintendent Sankar Prasad Mahato. The victim’s wife, Alpana, alleged that her husband lay unattended for over half-an-hour till a doctor declared him dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/inquiry-into-bongaon-death/articleshow/77207699.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
July 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||More recoveries than new cases in state||Thiruvananthapuram: The state got a brief respite on Monday as recoveries stood at 745, while the number of new cases was 702 (536 contact cases). The total cases confirmed in the state stood at 19,727. Of the new cases, 75 were people who came back from foreign countries and 91 from other states. The source of infection in 35 cases remained unknown. The death of Mohammed (61) from Kozhikode and Ouseph George (85) from Kottayam, were reported, taking the total toll to 64. The contact cases reported in the day are 137 in Thiruvananthapuram, 65 in Malappuram, 51 in Idukki, 49 in Kottayam, 40 in Kozhikode, 25 in Kasaragod, 22 in Kollam, 20 in Alappuzha, 16 each in Thrissur and Palakkad, 15 in Wayanad, 13 in Ernakulam, and seven each in Pathanamthitta and Kannur. The positive cases are 161 in Thiruvananthapuram, 86 in Malappuram, 70 in Idukki, 68 in Kozhikode, 59 in Kottayam, 41 in Palakkad, 40 in Thrissur, 38 each in Kannur and Kasaragod, 30 in Alappuzha, 22 in Kollam, 17 each in Pathanamthitta and Wayanad and 15 in Ernakulam. Also, 23 healthcare workers were infected in Kannur, 13 in Thiruvananthapuram, three in Kozhikode and one each in Alappuzha, Palakkad, Malappuram and Kasaragod. Seven KSE employee and three KLF employees in Thrissur are also among those infected. No Total Lockdown CM Pinarayi Vijayan said popular sentiments were against a total lockdown and hence the government has also decided not to go for a total lockdown. Instead, more restrictions will be introduced in red zones or places where clusters are found. Government has constituted a committee headed by the chief secretary to suggest whether existing lockdown in the capital must be continued. Until the decision comes, present lockdown will continue in Thiruvananthapuram. He warned that there is every chance for an increase in clusters. "Already, there are reports that, the infectivity is increasing from clusters formed in state. So more restrictions will be imposed in places where there are clusters," Vijayan said. He said there was no need to send all positive cases to hospitals but first-line treatment centres where they are monitored strictly. The patients shouldn’t worry about FLTCs they should understand that they have no complications that warrant hospitalisation. There is a medical team at FLTCs to monitor the admitted persons. For this, medical students too will be deploy here and Kerala University of Health Sciences has been given necessary directives. Those who have completed the course will be deployed here first, if need arises, he said. At present 101 FLTCs are ready with 12,801 beds, of which 45% are occupied. In phase-II, 229 more such centres will be ready with 30,598 beds. Test results On complaints that test results are delayed, the chief minister said strict directive was given to health department that all the test results should be given within 24 hours. Even results of people who are facing death should not be delayed. All policemen in every district will be tested in the wake of increase in positive cases. Kits will be distributed by HLL Lifecare and necessary testing facility will be set up in all the districts by HLL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/more-recoveries-than-new-cases-in-state/articleshow/77206187.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Nashik||Offer prayers on Eid-ul-Zuha at home: Cops||Nashik: Ahead of Eid-ul-Zuha, the city police have started holding peace committee meetings to ensure that the festival is celebrated on a peaceful note without any untoward incident. The meetings want to put across the point that the Eid namaz should be offered at homes and there should be no mass congregation. “Given the Covid-19 pandemic, mass congregations are uncalled for. We are requesting people to ensure that the namaz is offered at home, as was done Ramzan and Eid-ul-Fitr earlier,” said Surajkumar Bijali, the senior PI of the Nashik Road police station. Since the markets are closed, people have also been requested to buy goats online. Moreover, people must refrain from sacrificing animals that are banned from slaughtering. Meanwhile, many maulanas are also requesting people to follow the Covid-19 guidelines during Eid celebrations. A few days ago, district collector Suraj Mandhare had appealed to the Muslim community to celebrate Eid-ul-Zuha at home. Mandhare had appreciated the Malegaon citizens as well for setting an example by celebrating Eid-ul-Fitr in their homes. He said that they should do the same again on Eid-ul-Zuha, which falls on August 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/offer-prayers-on-eid-ul-zuha-at-home-cops/articleshow/77204832.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Nashik||Over 25,000 FYJC seats up for admissions||Nashik: A total of 25,030 seats will be available in 60 junior colleges across the city for the first year junior college (FYJC) admissions. While 10,160 seats have been earmarked for the science stream, 8,600 seats are available for the commerce stream, 4,910 for arts and 1,360 for minimum competency vocational courses (MCVC). Last year, the total number of seats across all streams in city’s junior collges was 18,698. Meanwhile, the online registration process of class X students into junior collges started from Sunday. So far, over 1,800 students have registered themselves. “Currently, the students are allowed to register themselves online with the education department for the admission process. The department is providing the students with login and password that they have to use while filling up of the part I and part II of forms online filling up of the part I of the admission forms,” Vaibhav Sarode, who is coordinating the FYJC admission process in Nashik city, said. According to him, the online filling up of the online forms will start from August 1 where students have to upload details like name, date of birth etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/over-25000-fyjc-seats-up-for-admissions/articleshow/77204842.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Bareilly||73-year-old serving life for murder in Pilibhit jail dies in KGMU||Pilibhit: A 73-year-old inmate of Pilibhit district jail, who had been convicted of murder and sentenced to life imprisonment, died in Lucknow’s King George’s Medical University (KGMU) hospital on Monday morning. The convict had been referred to KGMU by the district government hospital on July 24, after he had complained of breathlessness, restlessness and swelling in the upper parts of his body.As per jail superintendent Anoop Manav Shastri, his dead body was handed over to his kin by KGMU at 4.30pm, after autopsy.The convict, Munnu Lal of village Kanpara under Bilsanda police station, was lodged in jail on February 5, 2010 after his arrest by police in a case of rioting and murder, Shastri said.He added that after his conviction with life term on July 17, 2012, on July 24, 2018, he had been diagnosed as afflicted with right-side paralysis in his whole body. Since then, he was undergoing medical treatment at the district jail under the expert medical advice of KGMU doctors.On Friday last, after he complained of breathlessness, he was shifted to the district government hospital, from where he was referred to KGMU for better treatment. He was sent there under the security of jail cops, Shastri said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/73-year-old-serving-life-for-murder-in-pilibhit-jail-dies-in-kgmu/articleshow/77203780.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Hyderabad||T gets Rs 3,000 cr as GST compensation||Hyderabad: The Centre has recently released the GST compensation of Rs 13,806 crore to states for March 2020. With this, the entire compensation for the financial year 2019-20 has been released to states. Telangana got Rs 3,054 crore, while Maharashtra received Rs 19,233 crore followed by Karnataka at Rs 18,628 crore. Gujarat trailed at third with Rs 14,801 crore. Neighbouring AP got Rs 3,028 crore. The total amount of compensation released for the year 2019-20 was Rs 1,65,302 crore, whereas the amount of cess collected during 2019-20 was Rs 95,444 crore. To release the compensation for 2019-20, the balance of cess amount collected during 2017-18 and 2018-19 was also utilised, souces said. Plus, the Centre transferred Rs 33,412 crore from the Consolidated Fund of India to the Compensation Fund as part of an exercise to apportion the balance of Integrated Goods and Services Tax (IGST) pertaining to 2017-18. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, during the 40th GST Council meet on June 12, had said that a special meeting would be held in July to discuss compensation requirements of states. However, the final date of this meeting is yet to be announced. State FM T Harish Rao had urged Sitharaman at the meeting to release the GST compensation of Rs 3,975 crore to Telangana for April and May to help bridge the severe revenue shortfall due to lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-gets-rs-3000-cr-as-gst-compensation/articleshow/77207697.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 28, 2020||Kolhapur||246 test +ve for contagion, 9 more deaths in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: The district reported 246 Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the tally of positive cases to 4,621. The death toll stood at 130 on Monday after nine more people succumbed to the viral infection. Currently, there are 2,622 active cases in the district. Meanwhile, Kolhapur city reported 102 positive cases by 6pm on Monday, taking the Covid tally to 1,014. Maximum cases were reported from Shivaji Peth and Ravivar PethMuslim youths cremate Covid patients in city Several Muslim youths from Kolhapur city are carrying out the the last rites of the people who have succumbed to Covid-19. Relatives of the patients who have died at Chhatrapati Pramila Raje hospital in Kolhapur are not willing to take the body back to their villages and insist on cremating the body in the city itself. Since the kin of the patients are finding it to difficult to perform cremation, a group of Muslim youths have started performing the last rites. Corporator Toufik Mullani said that taking cognisance of their efforts, several organisations have started donating them PPE kits. 30 recovered patients donate plasma in district Over 30 people from Kolhapur district have come forward to donate their plasma following chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s appeal to come forward for donation for the treatment of serious patients. Rajendra Patil-Yadravkar, minister of state for health said, “ Around 60 units of plasma have been collected. The government has provided advanced machines to separate plasma and store it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/246-test-ve-for-contagion-9-more-deaths-in-kolhapur/articleshow/77204844.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Martyr’s kin to get reward||Hyderabad: Telangana government on Monday informed the high court that it will hand over the cash reward of Rs 30 lakh to the family of martyr Lance Naik Mohammed Feroz Khan by August 5. The state’s special counsel Jarender Pershad informed this to a bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy. The court commenced hearing in a PIL filed by Pavan Kasturi of Saidabad colony in Hyderabad questioning the inaction of the authorities in this regard.  “The state had promised Rs 30 lakh cash reward to his family, however, nothing was done in the last seven years and the wife of the martyr has been going out for work as a daily-wager,” the petitioner said. The bench gave notices to the state and Centre and posted the case to August 10. — Sagar Kumar Mutha||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/martyrs-kin-to-get-reward/articleshow/77207709.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra sanctions Rs 95 crore more for Covid battle, Mumbai gets Rs 16 crore of it||MUMBAI: The state government on Monday sanctioned an additional Rs 95 crore as massive funds are required to tackle Covid-19. More than Rs 16 crore of that will be given to Mumbai city and Rs 40 crore to Thane, Rs 12 crore to Aurangabad division, nearly Rs 3.8 crore to Amravati division, Rs 18 crore to Pune division and Rs 5 crore to public health department. The proposal was approved at a high-level meeting presided over by chief secretary Sanjay Kumar. A relief and rehabilitation department order said the funds will be used to set up temporary accommodation at new quarantine centres, for food, clothes, medical assistance, collection of samples and testing and contact tracing. They will also be used to set up more testing centres, to procure consumables, ventilators, thermal scanners, pulse oximeters, protective equipment for police and fire brigade personnel and officials of municipal councils and corporations. Money is required to provide food, shelter, clothes and medical aid to migrants stranded in the region. “Mumbai, Thane, Pune, Aurangabad and Amravati are among the worst affected areas due to further spread of Covid-19. Taking cognizance of proposals submitted by health department, the government sanctioned additional grants from state disaster relief fund. The funds will be at the disposal of public health department and divisional commissioners,’’ a senior official said. The official said the funds must be used only for the purpose for which they have been sanctioned. “Funds should not be used for meeting cost of establishment or payment of honorarium,’’ he said. Prafulla Marpakwar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-sanctions-rs95cr-more-for-covid-battle-city-gets-rs16cr-of-it/articleshow/77207584.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
July 28, 2020||Nashik||Jalgaon cops rescue 2 from lynching, 19 held||Nashik: The Jalgaon police saved two Malegaon residents from getting lynched by residents of the Wasantwadi village of Parola taluka in the early hours of July 22. So far, 19 people have been arrested and the police are looking for the others. The police have booked nearly 200 people under sections 307 (attempt to murder) 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons) 143 (punishment for unlawful assembly), 147 (punishment for rioting), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and various sections of the Maharashtra Police Act. The two victims — 28-year-old Wasim Khan and Sahikh Mobil Shaikh Kalim (26) — had suffered moderate injuries and have now been discharged from the hospital. The two men (a worker and a driver) were reluctant to lodge a complaint. Therefore, the Parola police suo motu registered a case against the village residents on Saturday. As per the complaint lodged by constable Anil Wagh, he and other police personnel were on a routine patrol on Tuesday night, when the senior officers got a call that two men were being beaten up in Wasantwadi village. The police patrol team immediately sought additional personnel and rushed to Wasantwadi, where they found a mob of nearly 200 people with lathis and sticks beating up the two men. While a truck was stationed at the roadside, one victim was tied to a tree and the other was lying on the road. The police immediately dispersed the mob and rushed Khan and Kalim to a hospital in Parola. The village residents claimed that the men had stolen cattle and had loaded the animals in the truck. They then caught the victims and tied them to a tree to prevent them from escaping, they told the police. Additional SP of Jalgaon Saurabh Agarwal said, “The police have arrested 19 people so far. The investigation is underway. We are probing the cattle theft angle.” The arrested suspects have been remanded in 14-day judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jalgaon-cops-rescue-2-from-lynching-19-held/articleshow/77204855.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Inform us Covid-19 results before patients, health dept tells pvt labs||Coimbatore: The public health department has instructed those private laboratories that conduct Covid test in the city to first upload the results on ICMR portal, inform the health department or Coimbatore Corporation before revealing the result to patients. It has also asked the laboratories to inform the patients two hours later after informing the health department. These instructions were given to the laboratories at a meeting conducted by the public health department with private laboratories on Monday. The laboratories have also been instructed to follow pool sampling for large-scale samples from industries.The meeting was headed by deputy director Dr G Ramesh Kumar. He instructed laboratories to update patients on their results only several hours after instructing the health department. “This is to avoid them landing up at hospitals and Covid care centres on their own vehicles, endangering multiple people,” Dr Ramesh Kumar said. “If we have this two hour or three-hour advantage, we will have time to arrange their transport to the institution," he added. Laboratories have also been instructed to test private individuals only as per ICMR guidelines, which includes those with international travel, contact with a confirmed case, have symptoms including fever and breathing difficulties. “We have also asked them to start doing pooled sampling, where they will test five samples together. This way we will save on reagent and the industry will save on costs,” Dr Ramesh Kumar said. “It will cost Rs 1,000 a person. If it tests positive, we can then do more largescale testing in the area,” he added.The deputy director said that the new ICMR guidelines also instructs them to test only 10 times the daily number of cases. “For example, if we are undergoing a phase where we see 300 cases a day, they have asked us to test only 3,000 swabs. But even when we were recording only 250 cases, we were collecting 4,500 samples a day including those given at private laboratories, leading to us having a positivity rate of only 3.3%,” he said. “They are hinting that our positivity rate should be 10% during a surge. The point is to ensure we are not wasting reagent on patients who don't need it,” he added.However, this move is expected to stress out many people who may opt for a private laboratory only to get their results promptly and within a time span. Any delay in the time, may make them start panicking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/inform-us-covid-19-results-before-patients-health-dept-tells-pvt-labs/articleshow/77207701.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Kochi||Laypeople can lead religious services: Pope||Idukki: The Vatican has asked priests not to commercialize religious functions. A document sent by Pope Francis to the churches asks the priests to desist from fixing prices to conduct weddings, funerals and other religious functions. In addition to this, the Vatican allowed laypersons to lead marriages, funerals and baptisms in the absence of priests and deacons. “Many Roman Catholic churches ask money from laypersons to conduct the special religious functions like marriage, Baptism and funerals. In some churches, they arrange a fixed price for the religious functions. The priests should not commercialize religious ceremonies,” said the document. PRO and chancellor of Syro-Malabar Church Fr Abraham Kavilpurayidam said: “The church received the new guidelines issued by the Holy See. We hope that in the present situation there is no need to allow laypeople to lead the religious functions as we have enough priests and deacons to perform the religious services.” “As per the new guidelines laypeople can lead baptism, marriage, funeral and other religious functions. But before the function they should collect prior permission from the local bishop,” said Kavilpurayidom. “We have not fixed price to perform religious functions. During marriages and other functions, people normally provide donations. Our priests will not refuse religious services to laypeople if they do not pay for the service,” said Kavilpurayidom.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/laypeople-can-lead-religious-services-pope/articleshow/77199538.cms||Sandeep Thomas
July 28, 2020||Kolkata||Mystery shrouds woman’s death||KOLKATA: A 75-year-old woman was found dead under mysterious circumstances at her home near Rashbehari Avenue on Sunday night. Police said the woman, Sandharani Das, used to stay alone after her husband’s death. Her only son is settled in the US. Some neighbours alerted cops after getting a stench from the house. Cops broke open the door and found her body. “The woman usually avoided company. On an earlier occasion, when she could not be contacted, some neighbours had called the police who had to break the door. But she was safe at that time. Doctors told us that she died of some ailment, but not of Covid. As the door was locked, nothing seems to have gone missing from the house,” said a police officer. Cops are trying to contact the woman’s son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mystery-shrouds-womans-death/articleshow/77207752.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Gurgaon||Restaurant violates lease, four HSVP officers face probe||GURUGRAM: A brewery in Sector 29 has been sealed after a restaurant allegedly sublet leased spaced to it. Four officials of the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) — which owns the land — are under scanner for their alleged role in allowing the violation and renewing the restaurant’s lease without authorisation from senior officials. The office of chief secretary (vigilance department) of the Haryana government has now sought an action-taken report from HSVP in the matter. The department had received a complaint from YK Bhasin, a resident, in December 2017 against restaurant chain Pind Balluchi for illegally subletting space leased to them by HSVP to the brewery Ministry of Beer in Vatika Grand in Sector 29. Later, Bhasin also alleged irregularities in the renewal of the restaurant’s lease in June 2018 by then HSVP estate officer and other officials. Bhasin had written to CBI demanding investigation into illegal subletting, accruing monthly income and nexus with department officials. Sources said the restaurant illegally sublet 750 sq yards, which had to be kept as open space, to the brewery at a rent of Rs 35 lakh per month. Refuting all allegations, Jaspal Singh Chaddha, chairman of Pind Balluchi, said: “I am a partner in Ministry of Beer. I have paid all the dues for the leased land and there are no violations on our part. Some temporary structures were made. We will soon remove these and restore things as per the lease terms and conditions.” HSVP estate officer-2 Vivek Kalia, who conducted an inquiry into the matter, told TOI that the brewery was sealed last week and the matter has been referred to the HSVP chief administrator for termination of lease. He has also written to the excise department seeking a report as to how a brewery was allowed to operate through a licence on HSVP land. According to the report submitted by Kalia (of which TOI has a copy) to the chief administrator on Friday, despite violations of leasing terms and conditions as well as proof of encroachment, the lease was renewed.  It named then estate officer Bharat Bhushan Gogia, sub-divisional officer Naresh Sharma, junior engineer OP Dalal and assistant (commercial) Ram Chander as the officials responsible for renewal of the lease.  “The initial approval and allotment was given by the former chief minister, who was also the chairman of HSVP. Therefore the renewal of lease should have been approved by the competent authority,” reads the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/restaurant-violates-lease-four-hsvp-officers-face-probe/articleshow/77208589.cms||Rao Jaswant Singh
July 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Mughal descendant Prince Tucy offers gold brick for construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya||HYDERABAD: Prince Habeebuddin Tucy, a sixth generation descendant of Mughul emperor Bahadur Shah Zafar, has got a gold brick made for the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya. Prince Tucy, who lives in Shamshabad, had offered to donate a gold brick to be used as the first brick in the construction of the temple. “The one kg gold brick has cost me Rs 1.80 crore. I got it made in Delhi one-and-a-half month ago. It has been kept in safe custody. I have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for a personal meeting with him to hand over the brick to him,” Prince Tucy told TOI on Monday. He is yet to get a response from the PMO. “I would very much like be there in Ayodhya when the construction of the Ram temple begins. I understand there will be small gathering because of the Covid-19 situation. If invited, I would like to go there,” he said. Prince Tucy, who himself got the gold brick designed, said ‘Jai Sriram’ has been engraved on it. “For all those people who laughed at my offer and dismissed it as mere talk, this is my answer. The brick is ready and as and when Prime Minister Modi gives me time, I will hand it over to him. I cannot press too much for this meeting because of the Covid-19 situation,” he said. Asked for a photograph of the gold brick, Prince Tucy told TOI that he had kept it in a locker for security reasons and would take it out only when he gets the appointment with the PM to hand it over to him.“I do not expect anything from the government. It is enough that I have been recognised as a Mughal prince,” the prince said. In a Facebook post on Monday, he congratulated ‘Hindu brothers’ on the construction of Ram Temple that is to begin on August 5. In the video post, he took a dig at AIMIM leader and Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi alleging that he was making attempts to create a rift between Hindus and Muslims. Watch Self-proclaimed descendant of Mughals, offers gold brick for Ram Temple||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mughal-descendant-prince-tucy-offers-gold-brick-for-ram-temple/articleshow/77207772.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 28, 2020||Hubballi||Nutrition gardens developed under MGNREGS in Belagavi||Belagavi: The pandemic has underscored the need for people to keep themselves in good shape, emphasising the role immunity plays in keeping the infection away, and the best way to bolster the defences of one’s body is to eat healthy and nutrition-rich food. To this end, the horticulture department in Belagavi has, under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), cultivated more than 90 nutrition gardens across the district. The food grown in these gardens is largely being given to children, considered to be particularly vulnerable to the pandemic. Most of these green patches have been developed near government schools, hostels and anaganawadi community health centres. Furthermore, work is under way at 255 more patches of the earth, which will soon bloom into these nutrition gardens. The idea of developing nutrition gardens has been borrowed from Jammu and Kashmir. Work on the nutrition gardens got under in Belagavi two months ago, when the central and state governments eased restrictions to allow MGNREGS projects to proceed. In each of these gardens, saplings of 30 species of plants known to be rich in the vital nutrients required by the human body are being planted. The fruits that these plants will bear will help feed students in the jurisdiction of as many as 345 gram panchayats. The gardens, developed on two to three guntas, have brinjal plants, in addition to coconut, mango, drumstick among other trees. The vegetables and fruits grown here will be supplied to schools for the preparation of mid-day meals, said deputy director of the horticulture department Ravindra Hakate. “In addition to schools, crops grown here will be provided to community health centres, which will benefit locals,” Hakate said. He said that the development of the gardens was being supervised by the chief executive officer of the Belagavi zilla panchayat. “Gardens developed near schools and hostels will be maintained by teachers or wardens respectively, while group ‘D’ workers of the health centres will take care of the green patches near these establishments,” added Hakate. Environmentalist and lecturer at Rani Chennamma University Vidya Halkerimat dubbed the initiative ‘revolutionary’. “This is the need of the hour. When the world is battling global warming, all people need to plant more trees. It is very good to see the government taking such an initiative which will improve the health of the people in rural areas,” Vidya said. - Basavaraj Meeshi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/nutrition-gardens-developed-under-mgnregs-in-belagavi/articleshow/77204204.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Lifer dies of suspected renal failure in Vizag||Visakhapatnam: Mallela Om Prakash, a lifer at Vizag Central Jail died of alleged renal failure at King George Hospital. Although the 53-year-old died on Sunday, the news came to light on Monday. Jail authorities said Prakash had been suffering from kidney-related ailments and was undergoing dialysis. Speaking to TOI, superintendent of Vizag Central Prison, S Rahul said Prakash was admitted to KGH on Sunday after he complained of discomfort. He died in the early hours on Sunday while being treated. “We are waiting for the post mortem report to establish the exact cause for the death of the prisoner,” he added. Prakash, an undertrial from Madanapalle in Chittoor district was lodged in Anantapur district jail. On November 9, 2008, he killed a fellow prisoner and sharp shooter Julakanti Srinivasa Reddy alias Moddu Srinu with a dumbbell. Two years after the murder of Moddu Srinu, Prakash was sentenced to life imprisonment and ordered to pay a fine of Rs 50,000 by the fast track court in Anantapur. He was transferred to Vizag Central Jail from Nellore Central Prison on medical grounds in 2016. Police said an ordinary lorry driver, Prakash, turned into an inter-state dacoit and was involved in several murder cases. Due to his misbehavior, Prakash was transferred several times and was finally transferred to the Vizag central prison on medial grounds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/lifer-dies-of-suspected-renal-failure-in-vizag/articleshow/77206244.cms||Nalla.Babu
July 28, 2020||Jaipur||Grandson recalls WW-1 lionheart Govind Singh||During his childhood, Colonel Rajendra Rathore used to be surprised to see his grandfather’s photograph loaded with medals that he had won for his stellar role in World War-1.As he grew up, he started realizing the bravery of his grandfather in the battlefield. It took him a few more years to realize the privilege of being the grandson of Govind Singh, the gallant soldier who was awarded with the Victoria Cross for his action-packed role in World War-1.“My grandfather, father and I have served in the 2nd Lancers Regiment of the Indian Army. My brother and one of my cousins also retired from the army. My father was five years old when my grandfather expired in 1942, but his legacy is what we take pride in. I have grown up listening to the stories of his courage,” said Rathore.Singh, who was born at Damoi village in Nagaur district, was awarded the Victoria Cross – the highest medal of bravery given to the member of the British Forces.He was a Lance-Daffadar in the 28th Light Cavalry attached to the 2nd Lancers during World War-1 and was awarded for his exemplary bravery during the Battle of Cambrai, France, on December 1, 1917.According to information provided by the government of United Kingdom, Govind Singh volunteered to carry messages from the position of his regiment to the brigade headquarters three times covering a distance of 1.5 km.He passed over an open ground on a horse which was under constant enemy fire. His horse was shot on all three occasions and he had to cover the remaining part of his journey on foot.Singh volunteered for the fourth time as well, which was denied as it was a certain death due to the injury he suffered. For his devotion towards his duty, Singh became one of the six people in India and the only one from Rajasthan to receive the Victoria Cross during World War-1.In later years, Rajendra Rathore’s father gifted the original Victoria Cross to the regiment and at present it is kept at the officers’ mess of 2nd Lancers, Sikandrabad.“My family is well-known for bravery of my grandfather. I will be retiring in September, but it will always be a part of my identity,” said Rathore with pride.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/grandson-recalls-ww-1-lionheart-govind-singh/articleshow/77208595.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Nagpur||Arogya mitra suffers at IGGMCH, family faces ostracization||Nagpur: That Shalini (name changed) has been a Covid warrior didn't make any difference in the alleged treatment she has been meted out at IGGMCH after testing positive on July 22. Working as arogya mitra under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Arogya Yojana, her profession required daily interaction with a range of patients among whom she probably got infected. During her brief stay at IGGMCH Covid ward, Shalini recalled how she went unattended on the first day of her admission while sanitation remained an issue till she was shifted out to MLA Hostel Covid Care Centre (CCC) on Monday. “I didn’t get breakfast and dinner, nor medicines on the first day at IGGMCH. Body freezers were lying close to our beds which gave a scary feeling. Ceiling had leakages and ward was never swept,” she said. IGGMCH staff told her that it was a new ward and some issues would persist initially. “I am feeling much better at MLA CCC,” she said. As per norms for asymptomatic positive patients, she was admitted to CCC. Even as she was facing problems at IGGMCH, her lawyer husband, two daughters and mother-in-law went without power for two days as power-utility employees refused to fix the supply. "Though we sanitized our home, people treated us as untouchables," said her 44-year-old husband who accompanied his younger daughter to IGGMCH as she too tested positive. Though calls have been by the Central and state governments, Shalini and her family faced discrimination and were ostracized. The aggrieved husband then wrote to the dean who ordered proper care for Shalini. “They make tall claims about the treatment and facilities being provided. But, this is how their own have been treated," said the husband. Shalini requested authorities to shift her asymptomatic daughter with her at MLA CCC as her husband is negative. “He is forced to stay with our daughter while she could have been kept in my care as we both are positive,” said Shalini. Dean Dr Ajay Keoliya said, “I inspected the ward and didn’t find any issues. If patient comes after 9pm, there could be food issues. We have ensured patients are at ease.” Flaying the incident, INTUC IGGMC president Trisharan Sahare said it was dean’s responsibility to monitor all wards and take corrective measures. “The senior doctors anyway don’t visit the Covid ward and entire responsibility is entrusted on the junior doctors. The allegations of discrimination are shocking. When the patients are psychologically down, it’s the responsibility of all of us to boost their morale. Such incidents should be condemned and culprits should face action,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/arogya-mitra-suffers-at-iggmch-family-faces-ostracization/articleshow/77208383.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 28, 2020||Chennai||Averse to OBC quota, Centre gets caught up in legal knots||Chennai: The Union government’s understanding, interpretation and implementation of other backward communities (OBC) reservation in All India Quota (AIQ) medical seats are full of self-contradictions and somersaults. The Madras high court on Monday delivered a far-from-conclusive ruling on the issue asking the Centre to bring in a mechanism to enforce OBC quota in AIQ seats. But this judicial nudge is neither necessary nor consequential as the Centre is not unaware of its constitutional obligations. Yet, for more than three decades it has been ducking it and denying OBCs their due. Read the story on TOI+ How OBC quota demand in med seats put Centre in a spot||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/averse-to-obc-quota-centre-gets-caught-up-in-legal-knots/articleshow/77209403.cms||A Subramani
July 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Pink bollworm threatenscotton crop in M’wada||Aurangabad: Pink bollworm has been found to have infested cotton crops in some parts of Marathwada, prompting the authorities concerned to ask farmers to use pheromone traps and pesticides. The danger to the ‘cash crop’ from the pest ahead of likely bumper kharif season due to the good monsoon has left the farming community worried in Marathwada, which is known as the cotton cultivation belt. According to official data, over 15.9 lakh hectare area is under cotton cultivation during the current season in Aurangabad division comprising Aurangabad, Jalna and Beed districts. Laur division, in which the remaining five Marathwada districts come, has over 4.45 lakh ha under cotton cultivation, . Vasantrao Naik Marathwada Agricultural University, Parbhani, has alerted the farmers against the attack of pink bollworm on the cotton crop. “The areas where sowing of cotton has taken place relatively early due to timely arrival of monsoon have reported the pink bollworm attack while the crop is in the flowering stage,” the authorities concerned said. “The intermittent cloud weather currently could cause further spread of the pest. The use of pheromone traps is highly recommended to contain the menace,” added the authorities. The state agricultural university has recommended the use of five pheromone traps per hectare. Besides, farmers have been asked to spray a decoction of neem seeds and us pesticides as per the need. Farmers may contact helpline number 02452-229000 during office hours for information. Pink bollworm had damaged the cotton crop in Marathwada in 2018, forcing the government to give compensation to farmers and advise against cultivating the crop in the subsequent year to break the chain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/pink-bollworm-threatenscotton-crop-in-mwada/articleshow/77204873.cms||Prasad Joshi
July 28, 2020||Mangaluru||Volunteers at farm replace machines, transplant paddy by hand||Mangaluru: About 20 volunteers, including international competitive swimmers, stuck at the Varanashi Organic Farms in Adyanadka due to the pandemic, 50km from Mangaluru, have decided to help in cultivating paddy without machines. Volunteers from different walks of life are involved in transplanting paddy on nearly three acres through the system of rice intensification (SRI), a method of paddy cultivation developed in Madagascar and promoted in South India by organic farmer Narayan Reddy. Dr Varanashi Krishna Moorthy, chief, Varanashi Development and Research Foundation, said, “All around the year we have volunteers from across the world learning various farming practices. While the foreigners have managed to return to their respective countries, 20 Indian volunteers are camping at the farm along with swimming champions. During discussions on paddy cultivation, we decided to revive the SRI method that was attempted at our farm almost a decade ago.’’ He said, “This is an agro-ecological methodology for increasing the productivity of irrigated rice. By implementing this, we have done away with the machines for transplantation. The uniqueness of the system is that seedlings that are 8-12 days old are transplanted singly, one per hill, and in a square pattern,” he said. SRI methods help increase yields by over 20%-100% while using 40% less water than conventional methods. The method was initially developed in the 1980s in Madagascar and has been validated in 43 countries. In SRI paddy cultivation, less seeds are used. About 2 kg/acre of seeds are required as against the normal 20kg of seeds per acre, said Dr Krishna Moorthy. Currently, 20% of the transplantation has been completed, and the enthusiasm of the volunteers continues to remain high. Swim coach Partha Varanashi, who is also working on the fields said, “International swimmers including Likith S P, Aron D’Souza and Raj Banwadia, who have been training at the farm since February, have also joined in. In Australia, I have been part of WWOOF, a worldwide movement linking volunteers with organic farmers and growers to promote cultural and educational experiences based on trust and non-monetary exchange, thereby helping to build a sustainable, global community, and currently we host volunteers from WWOOF, Workaway, and FSL-India.” The advantage of working on this farm is that volunteers get to explore a wide range of adventure activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/volunteers-at-farm-replace-machines-transplant-paddy-by-hand/articleshow/77206114.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
July 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Cabinet meet held online for first time||For the first time the state cabinet meeting was held online. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan joined the cabinet meeting from his official residence and his cabinet colleagues from their residences. The chief secretary joined the meeting from his office. The online cabinet was decided due to the rise in positive cases in the state capital. Most ministers are camping in the districts which they have been given charge to monitor the pandemic situation. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cabinet-meet-held-online-for-first-time/articleshow/77206256.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Nagpur||Vidarbha sees highest deaths, cases, recoveries in a day||Nagpur: The last week of July began with a hint of how severe the projected peak of Covid-19 cases in mid-August could be. Vidarbha reported 555 new cases, the first time it has crossed 500 in a day. With highest ever 10 deaths in Nagpur, total 18 deaths were reported from across Vidarbha taking the toll to 333. In some small relief, highest ever – 316 — patients were also discharged in a day. Now, Vidarbha has 12,595 cases, with 8,329 of them recovered and 3,933 under treatment. After Nagpur district surpassed 4,000-mark on Sunday, Nagpur city surpassed 3,000-mark on Monday. Highest ever 272 cases were reported from Nagpur, with a record 10 deaths – 8 of them in Nagpur city and 2 from Nagpur rural (district). Amravati reported 4 deaths, two patients died in Buldhana, while Washim and Akola reported 1 death each. The 555 cases in a day was the worst ever figure for Vidarbha. These include Nagpur (274), Yavatmal (68), Akola (66), Buldhana (55), Amravati (40), Chandrapur (20), Wardha (12), Gondia (9), Gadchiroli (7), and Bhandara (4). Washim was the only district in Vidarbha where no new case was reported on Monday. Recoveries too continued with Nagpur (124), Amravati (98), Akola (30), Washim (23), Chandrapur (13), Buldhana (9), Yavatmal (6), Bhandara (6), Gondia (4), Gadchiroli (2), and Wardha (1). Amravati: Four deaths and a spike of 40 cases took the death toll past 50 to 53, and Covid count to 1,771. Three women and a man died at the Covid hospital. A 52-year-old woman from Sindhu Nagar, a 56-year-old woman from Sufiyan Nagar, a 60-year-old woman from Badnera mill, and a 65-year-old male from New City, Badnera, died. Of the 53 deaths so far, 29 have come in 27 days of July. A record 98 patients were also discharges, taking number of recovered patients to 1,240, leaving 478 active cases, including 15 taking treatment in Nagpur. With 18 of the 42 patients coming from rural belt, including the Daryapur MLA, the rural count reached 338 mark. Buldhana: Covid-19 spread in Deulgaon Raja town of Buldhana district is turning serious. On Monday, third Covid-19 death was reported here, a 65-yr-old man. Khamgaon – another tehsil in Buldhana — reported death of a 52-yr-old man. Buldhana’s toll is now 27. The district reported 55 cases on July 27, with total at 1,060. These include 662 patients recovered and 27 deaths. Total 371 patients are under treatment. Akola: A 40-yr-old woman from Khair Mohammad Plot died during treatment on July 27, taking the toll to 110. Akola received reports of 496 tests on Monday, with 35 of them positive. In the evening, reports of 264 rapid antigen tests also came in which 31 tested positive, taking the day’s total to 66. Also, 30 patients recovered, taking the total to 2,010. With 110 deaths, Akola has 358 patients under treatment. Washim: For the first time in July, no patient was detected in Washim district on Monday. In fact, 19 patients were discharged, though a 50-year-old woman from Karanja Lad city died at Washim Covid Hospital. Now, Washim has 531 cases, including 318 recoveries and 10 deaths. Total 203 patients are under treatment. Chandrapur: In all 20 patients were detected in district on Monday. A deceased patient from Telangana tested positive in city and a woman patient moved to Nagpur for treatment, taking the Covid-19 tally to 423. In all 13 patients were discharged, taking total figure to 261. There are now 160 patients under treatment, with no deaths. Newly detected patients include six from Sindewahi tehsil, three from Gadchandur town, four from Chimur tehsil, three from Ballarpur town, three from Chandrapur city and one belonging to other state, and one each from Rajura, Majari and Ghugus towns. The administration booked directors of two rice mills in Mul town, where 25 mill worker have tested positive so far. Both Saikrupa Ricemill and Om Sairam Ricemill owners had brought the workers from Bihar. Both mill owners were told to ensure proper quarantine for outsider workers, but failed to follow directives. Following a complaint by teshildar DG Jadhav, Mul police registered offences. Yavatmal: The district registered 68 positive patients on Monday, 40 men and 28 women. Pandharkawda alone recorded 42 patients, 24 men and 18 women. Total patients in isolation ward of GMC Yavatmal is 300 while 64 cases are in the isolation ward. Total 28 deaths have been reported till date. Wardha: 12 more persons reported positive on Monday. They include two children, four women and six men, from Arvi (5), Wardha (3), Manikwada village (2) and Sarvadi village (1). Five persons tested positive from Arvi, including 25-year-old woman, and men aged 76, 65 and 34 years. A 37-year old man and 35-year-old woman of Manikwada village of Ashti tehsil and 27-year-old man from Sarvadi village of Karanja tehsil also tested positive. Bhandara: Four new patients were detected while six recovered. Two new patients are from Bhandara, with one each from Tumsar and Mohadi. Bhandara now has 234 total cases, of which 188 have recovered for a recovery rate above 80%. With 2 deaths reported earlier this month, Bhandara now has 44 patients under treatment, two of them referred to Nagpur. Gondia: Spike of nine cases was reported on July 27, 8 residents of Deori tehsil and 1 from Tirora tehsil. Four patients were discharged on Monday. Number of containment zones increased to 30 in the district. Total 26 patients are under treatment now. Total patients are 254, with 225 recovered and 3 deaths reported earlier. Gadchiroli: Six SRPF jawans and 1 person returning from Wardha tested positive, taking total to 518. Two patients – 1 each from Gadchiroli and Wadsa recovered taking total number of recovered to 256. With 1 death reported earlier, total number of patients under treatment in Gadchiroli is 261.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vidarbha-sees-highest-deaths-cases-recoveries-in-a-day/articleshow/77208374.cms||Mazhar Ali
July 28, 2020||Coimbatore||City corpn to bring 50 docs to conduct fever clinics||Coimbatore: The health department has decided to bring in 50 doctors from multiple resources to intensify Coimbatore Corporation’s fever camps. This is expected to help in collecting nasal swabs from patients with symptoms. The corporation and public health department has ordered for around 1,000 pulse oximeters each to distribute to families in home quarantine, so that they can monitor themselves. Anybody with a saturation rate of less than 95% will be made to give their nasal swab for Covid-19 test and be hospitalized.The district administration on Monday held an official coordination meeting attended by the revenue divisional officer, city police commission, corporation commissioner, city health officer and deputy commissioner. “The idea is to use these new doctors in hotspots and containment zones to identify symptomatic patients as early as possible, so that they don’t come to the hospital in a state of critical illness,” a senior official said. “We want to ensure that no patient with lung changes or happy hypoxia don’t go untreated until it is too late,” the official said.Deputy director of public health Dr G Ramesh Kumar said of the 50 doctors the civic body asked for, they are allotting five doctors from rural areas. “The government hospitals have agreed to depute 25 of their staff and the remaining 20 doctors will be outsourced,” he said.The oximeters will be given to households of positive cases to monitor the oxygen level themselves. The oximeters will be taken back after the quarantine period. “We have already given the oximeters to five or six households in rural areas. We bought 1,046 oximeters,” Dr Ramesh Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-corpn-to-bring-50-docs-to-conduct-fever-clinics/articleshow/77207780.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Kalaripayattu tutor proves his chops online||KOCHI: With the pandemic pushing pedagogy and pastimes online, a 28-year-old Kalaripayattu instructor in Alappuzha is proving his chops on the medium. A resident of Punnamada, Vishnu Lal has been an exponent of the martial art form for eight years and his YouTube channel Kerala Kalaripayattu now has around 67,000 subscribers. Apart from the trainees from his kalaris (schools), Lal has over 25 followers from other states, and even from countries such as Italy and the US. “It is difficult to impart Kalaripayattu training online but my experimentation with video lectures has proved successful and more trainers are now planning to start such sessions,” says Lal. “I teach the thekkan (southern) and vadakkan (northern) styles. Kalaripayattu comprises four stages – meythari or meyppayattu (body flexibility and calisthenics) kolthari or kolpayattu (fighting techniques with either cane- or wood-crafted weapons) angathari (combat with metal weapons) or aayudhaabhyaasam and verumkai or adikkai (barehanded fighting). Meythari itself will take around two years to perfect,” he said. Lal and his guru Harikrishnan, who together run the Ekaveerakalaripayattu Academy, which has four kalaris and around 600 students, started the YouTube channel a year ago to upload short videos on exercise and self-defence techniques. But following the lockdown, when the kalaris were closed they decided to take hardcore kalaripayattu lessons also online. Social media ensured that the videos are well-received not just among their wards in Kerala, but also other states and even abroad. “The challenge of network connectivity is nothing when compared to the physical absence of a master during training. Many have objected to the online sessions. But our experience so far has shown that they are effective. Moreover, tougher stages such as kolthari and angathari, which require weapons, are yet to be taken up as my students are undergoing training in meythari, which involves the conditioning of the body and mind for further stages,” said Lal The fee for eight one-hour-long classes is Rs 1,000 a month. Lal also conducts Google Meet sessions for small groups. All classes are recorded and shared with each student on WhatsApp. In order to supplement the tutorial, demonstrations of each step (chuvadu) are uploaded on the YouTube channel as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kalaripayattu-tutor-proves-his-chops-online/articleshow/77206791.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Kolkata||Showers lash central & north Kolkata, fail to bring down temp||KOLKATA: A heavy shower left several parts of central and north Kolkata drenched on Monday morning even as the maximum temperature shot up to 36°C, four notches above normal. Triggered by the local cloud cells that formed over North 24 Parganas and travelled across the city towards Bangladesh, the rain could continue on Tuesday, said the officials of Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC). But the city will not receive heavy monsoon rain and the temperature could hover around 35°C during the week, according to the weathermen. “Monday’s rain had nothing to do with the monsoon trough that remains above north Bengal. That is why, south Bengal has been unusually dry this month while north has continued to receive heavy showers. This July has been one of the driest in recent years,” said RMC director GK Das. He added that till a low-pressure system forms over Bay of Bengal, south Bengal and Kolkata will not receive heavy rain. “Monsoon rain in Gangetic Bengal is driven by systems that form above the Bay. Even though July is the rainiest of monsoon months, not a single system has formed in July. There is no possibility of a system forming over the next four-five days either,” added Das. Showers have been sporadic and inconsistent this monsoon. “We have long, dry periods, during which the mercury has been shooting up. This week was no different and the day temperature has remained high. Unless we have consistent rain, the mercury will not slide down,” said a meteorologist. The city had been largely dry since last week with the mercury hovering around 34-35°C. Kolkata, in fact, recorded its highest temperature of the year after the onset of monsoon. Even as the monsoon trough moved north, the northern districts received heavy showers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/showers-lash-central-north-kol-fail-to-bring-down-temp/articleshow/77207808.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Woman succumbs to burns after sanitiser catches fire||NASHIK: A 24-year-old woman succumbed to her injuries on Friday, after the sanitiser she was holding caught fire from a lit candle at her residence in Mehboon Nagar, Wadalagaon on the night of July 20. Indiranagar police registered a case of accidental death on Sunday. The victim has been identified as Razbiya Shahid Shaikh. Police said they had investigated the case and had taken the victim’s statement before her demise.  Shaikh was spraying the sanitiser inside the house at around 11 pm when there was a power cut so she lit a candle in her tin shanty. The sanitiser came in contact with the flame and caught fire. The victim had suffered 90% burnss in the incident. After She was taken to the Nashik civil hospital where she succumbed to the burn injuries. Her husband had also suffered burns on his hands and legs, and is undergoing treatment at the Nashik civil hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/woman-succumbs-to-burns-after-sanitiser-catches-fire/articleshow/77204899.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Change in lease policy to help PNG project||SECUNDERABAD: A major hurdle in the acquisition of defence land in Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) for the underground piped natural gas (PNG) project may be cleared soon, as the Ministry of Defence (MoD) has made an amendment in the land lease policy regarding transfer of defence land for public utilities and public infrastructure projects. The project will supply PNG for every household in the Cantonment area as well as the military residential quarters, and nearly one lakh families in SCB limits and another 300 defence families are expected to benefit from it. According to the new amendment, “no lease rents will be charged from either the state governments, organisations or local bodies with government funding for transfer of defence land, located in the Cantonment limits, for both underground sections of main petroleum and gas pipelines and underground tunnelling of metro projects.” The PNG project, initiated by Bhagyanagar Gas Limited (BGL), has been pending due to lack of clearance from the MoD. In 2018, a memorandum of understanding (MoU) was inked between BGL and the local military authority (LMA) for implementation of the PNG project. The BGL officials conducted a detailed survey of the defence land and locations to set up PNG stations and to lay underground main pipelines. “Works pertaining to the survey were completed in 2019 and we are awaiting the MoD’s clearance to begin laying of pipelines on defence land,” sources in BGL told TOI. “Work on the project is progressing at a snail’s pace because of inordinate delay in getting permission for digging on defence land,” added the sources. “Once the MoD gives its clearance, infrastructure works will begin. The project will be completed in a year,” said a BGL official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/change-in-lease-policy-to-help-png-project/articleshow/77207804.cms||Sunil Mungara
July 28, 2020||Hubballi||Floods, Covid-19 threw a spanner in development projects, says Shettar||Dharwad: District minister Jagadish Shettar, who also holds the large and medium industries portfolio, has said that the government could have done much better had there been no floods and Covid-19 in the last one year. The BJP government on Monday celebrated one year of coming to power in the state. Taking part in an interaction programme with chief minister B S Yediyurappa through video conference, Sheattar claimed the government did well during the flash floods that created havoc in north Karnataka last year. “This is the first government which announced Rs 5 lakh compensation for damaged houses, and 99% of the flood victims have received the compensation,” he claimed. Claiming that the Investors’ Meet held at Hubballi had been successful, the industries minister said it has attracted big players to set up their plants in north Karnataka. “But the pandemic has hampered growth in the state. The government has been utilising its machinery to tackle the deadly infection,” he said. After Lockdown 1.0 and 2.0, the MSME sector was reeling under economic crisis, and they needed some package from the government to boost their activities. The Centre sanctioned a working capital of Rs 3 lakh crore to MSME and major industries in the state, he said. Some beneficiaries of government schemes interacted with Yediyurappa during the video conference. MLAs Arvind Bellad, Amrut Desai, Shankar Patil Munenakopp, C M Nimbannavar, DC Nitesh Patil, ZP CEO B C Satish, police commissioner R Dileep, HDMC commissioner Suresh Itnal and others were present. Caption LISTING ACHIEVEMENTS: Dharwad minister Jagadish Shettar releases booklets highlighting the achievements of the BJP government over the last one year||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/floods-covid-19-threw-a-spanner-in-development-projects-says-shettar/articleshow/77204909.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Hubballi||Kashmiri students refused permission to return home||Hubballi: The second JMFC court here on Monday rejected the plea submitted by Kashmiri students, charged with sedition for allegedly raising pro-Pakistan slogans in February, to return to their home. Clifton D’Rozario, advocate for the Kashmiri students, filed a memo with the court on July 3, pointing to the fact that his clients had complied with all the conditions laid down by the court. Highlighting the extenuating circumstances that the students found themselves in at the moment, the lawyer said, “The owner of the house they are currently residing in has asked them to vacate the property. My clients are unable to find alternative accommodation despite their best efforts.” The court has scheduled the next hearing to August 28. Students of KLE IT Basit Sophi, Tabib Majid Vani and Amir Mohiuddin Vani had been arrested in February, and were granted bail in June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kashmiri-students-refused-permission-to-return-home/articleshow/77204061.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Dist records single-day high of 313 cases, three deaths||Coimbatore: In its highest ever daily tally so far, the district recorded 313 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday, taking the total number of cases to 3,775. As many as 202 patients were discharged, taking the total number of recovered patients to 2,131 with recovery rate of 56%. The number of active cases in the district also reached an all-time high of 1,602 patients. Three more deaths were recorded taking the toll to 42.The state government has now revised its projection and predicts that the district will record 1,800 cases between Tuesday and Sunday night. If this happens, the total number of cases will surge to 5,575 cases on August 2.The three deaths include a 62-year-old woman who got admitted at ESI on July 20, after her sample taken on July 18 tested positive. The woman who was hypertensive died on Saturday (July 25{+t}{+h}) due to severe pneumonia. Another 62-year-old man from Kaikolampalayam came to CMCH on July 24th with breathing distress. He was found having bilateral bronchial pneumonia due to the virus. He died the next morning at 10am. A 75-year-old man from Podanur was brought dead on July 24 to CMCH. His Covid-19 test sample came positive, and thus declared a Covid-19 death.Monday’s positive cases include a 52-year-old staff from CMCH, three PMC staff members of 24x7 water supply project with the corporation who were shifted to CODISSIA Care centre on Sunday. It also includes a clerk, aged around 30, with the Railway Mail who tested positive for the virus on Saturday. On Monday, corporation workers disinfected and sanitized the mail office on the Coimbatore Junction premises. Since the office remain closed from Saturday, nearly 490 bags of mails are stuck in the office. “We hope we get to move the mail sacks at least on Wednesday,” an official said. People can’t book posts or parcels in the rail mail office as a result and will have to approach only the head post offices,” he said.The list also includes the Pollachi municipality commissioner and five of his staff members. The commissioner and his staff members were reportedly infected by one of the engineers at the office, who tested positive earlier. Sources say that at least nine more people may have also been infected. The list had 16 people from Selvapuram.R S Puram also continues to see more cases including six from Venkatasamy Road, a few from Poo Market, Sullivan Street and Robertson Road. Besides this, six more RAF personnel from Mahalingapuram, seven from Podanur, seven people from Al Ameen Colony, two Chinnammal Street at Saibaba Colony, four from Peelamedu, five from Kalapatti and 10 from Siva Sakthi Colony in Ganapathy have tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-records-single-day-high-of-313-cases-three-deaths/articleshow/77207800.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Lucknow||Admin nod must for TV channels to hold debates on Ayodhya||Ayodhya: Ahead of bhoomi pujan ceremony at Ramjanmabhoomi site, Ayodhya administration has issued an advisory to the news channels stating that while airing debates or discussion on Ram temple or related issues no comments should be made against any religion and none of the parties associated with the Ayodhya issue should be included in the discussion. The news channels will have to seek prior permission from the administration to organise any debate in the temple town and will be required to give an undertaking to the authorities that directives will be adhered to. “We have issued an advisory to the news channels and they will have to take prior permission from the magistrate for holding programmes. Only a limited number of panellists will be allowed in debates and no public will be allowed to attend the broadcast or recording of such programmes,” deputy director, information, Murli Dhar Singhsaid . A magistrate along with police personnel will remain present during the broadcast or recording of such programmes and all staff of news channels and panellists will have to follow the Covid-19 protocols, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/admin-nod-must-for-tv-channels-to-hold-debates-on-ayodhya/articleshow/77208593.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
July 28, 2020||Bhopal||Narottam Mishra hits out at Congress over ‘nepotism’ in leadership||BHOPAL: BJP on Monday hit out at the Congress saying nepotism dominates the grand old party as leaders like Kamal Nath and Digvijaya Singh are now promoting their sons.  Taking a dig at Lok Sabha member Nakul Nath’s statement that he would lead the youth in the upcoming bypolls, state home minister Narottam Mishra said that both Nakul and father Kamal Nath would lead the Congress, while others would remain uncared for. “Nepotism rules the Congress as far as leadership goes. Amid tussle over leadership in the Congress it’s clear that Nakul Nath will lead the youth, while Kamal Nath will lead the elderly. The remaining Congress is like an orphan,” Mishra reacted to Nakul's claim, adding, “The Congress leadership should sit and at least have occasional talks with the MLAs.” The cabinet minister’s remarks came a day after Nakul Nath claimed that he would lead the youth, while former ministers like Jaivardhan Singh (son of Digvijaya) and Jitu Patwari will work with him. Social media posts claiming Nakul Nath as the future leader and chief minister of Madhya Pradesh also went viral all over the sites a few days ago to promote the Lok Sabha member from Chhindwara as successor to former chief minister Kamal Nath. Last Month, similar posters promoting Digvijaya 's son Jaivardhan Singh as the future chief minister of MP were displayed at the Roshanpura square of the state capital. BJP took a jibe saying Congress leaders must be happy to get their new boss. "Congress leaders and youth members must be happy to get their new boss in the name of Nakul Nath. The Congress is truly following the dynasty rule," said BJP state spokesperson, Rajneesh Agrawal. However, Nakul Nath reacted to home minister Mishra's tweet on Monday saying, "The orphan state needs Nath, not Kamal, it needs Kamal Nath."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/narottam-hits-out-at-congress-over-nepotism-in-leadership/articleshow/77208572.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Teenager shoots dead 12-year-old||JAIPUR: A 15-year-old boy shot dead a 12-year-old boy in Bharatpur on Monday. The accused juvenile got a country-made weapon from his house and shot the other boy on his head. The reason for the same is yet to be determined. The incident happened close to the Mathura Gate police station in Bharatpur. “The boys were known to each other and according to preliminary investigation it appears that they were playing together when the accused got the country-made weapon from his house and shot at his friend. The bullet hit the 12-year-old on the head and he died on the spot. We went to the crime scene as soon as we received the information but the boy was declared dead by the doctors”, said an official of the Mathura Gate police station. However, the cops are still unsure as to whether it was deliberate or unintentional and the official added, “Both the accused and the victim are minors so at this point it is difficult to determine if the shooting was deliberate or unintentional. They both stayed close to each other’s residences and till now we have not found any evidence to suggest there was any kind of animosity between the families.” A case has been registered against four persons and the officials claimed they have detained a couple of them. A case of murder was registered against the relatives of the accused minor. Earlier this year, a 11-year-old boy had ‘accidentally’ shot himself in Sikar while playing but later it was found that another child had pulled the trigger. “We are going to question both the families and will try to retrieve CCTV footage from cameras as well to get a better idea about the incident. At present the victim’s family is in no state to be questioned and we will pursue other leads,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/teenager-shoots-dead-12-year-old/articleshow/77208600.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Lucknow||On special day, Ram Lalla to don ‘Navratna’ attire||Ayodhya: The idol of Ram Lalla at Ram Janambhoomi will don a new attire fitted with nine jewels and gem stones during the ‘bhoomi pujan’ of Ram Temple in Ayodhya. President of Ramdal Seva Trust Pandit Kalkiram will present the special costume to the idol. These costumes will be fitted with gems and jewels of nine varieties making it a ‘Navratna’ attire. Tailor Bhagwat Pahari, who is stitching the costumes, said, “I am lucky to have the honour of stitching the clothes for Ram Lalla on this historic occasion. I will definitely prepare such an attire which will be historic in itself.” “We have been stiching clothes for Ram Lalla for many generations,” Pahari added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/on-special-day-ram-lalla-to-don-navratna-attire/articleshow/77208607.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
July 28, 2020||Hyderabad||RWA module to help patients in home isolation||Hyderabad: Members of Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) have chalked out a module to help people who have been put in home isolation by forming a people’s coordination team to ensure better healthcare in their respective localities. Two associations are implementing the module this week. The RWAs tied up with a hospital and hotel in their locality to ensure people don’t have to struggle for a bed and quarantine facility. “We have fixed hospital charges too. Those who do not want to be in home isolation will be directed to the hotel,” said Major Shiv Kiran (retd), member of United Federation of Resident Welfare Association. Doctors assisting the team said that the team members were being trained in several aspects of healthcare. “Volunteers trained in safety measures need to be hired to deal with Covid-19 patients,” said Dr Ramesh Chandra Katragadda, MD of Zoi Hospital, who is also part of the module. A resident of Begumpet said that the plan was chalked out following several complaints from residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rwa-module-to-help-patients-in-home-isolation/articleshow/77207817.cms||Nabinder Bommala
July 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Man stabs 70-yr-old grandmother to death||Coimbatore: A 23-year-old man was arrested on Monday for murdering his 70-year-old grandmother at Avarampalayam here on Sunday.The arrested person was identified as Karthi, a resident of Duraisamy Naidu Layout at Avarampalayam.The all-women police in the city had arrested Karthi, a construction worker, for sexually abusing a minor girl along with his friends last year. He was booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012 and came out on conditional bail.On Sunday evening, Karthi, his brother-in-law M Dharmaraj, 35, of Avarampalayam and their friend Anish were consuming alcohol at Karthi’s house. “Dharmaraj, who had helped Karthi to come out of jail, abused Karthi’s family. In a fit of anger, Karthi broke a photo frame and tried to stab Dharmaraj using a glass shard. When Karthi’s grandmother M Kanniyammal intervened and attempted to pacify him, the shard pierced her neck. Though the family rushed the injured woman to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital, doctors declared her as brought dead,” a police officer said.Peelamedu police inspector T Jothi registered a case against Karthi and arrested him on Monday. He was booked under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-stabs-70-yr-old-grandmother-to-death/articleshow/77207813.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Man arrested for raping 14-year-old girl||COIMBATORE: The all-women police in Tirupur city arrested a 29-year-old man on Sunday for raping and kidnapping a 14-year-old girl. The arrested person has been identified as Prabhu, a native of Dharmapuri district. “He has been staying with his wife and children in a rented house in the city for the past six years. He had befriended the minor girl nine months ago and raped her several times. When the girl’s family came to know about it, he promised to marry her and kidnapped her two days ago,” a police officer said. After the girl’s family lodged a complaint, the Thirumuruganpoondi police registered a missing case. Police tracked Prabhu’s whereabouts and rushed to Dharmapuri district on Sunday and rescued the girl. Police have registered a case against Prabhu under various sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012. He was remanded in judicial custody on Sunday evening. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-arrested-for-raping-14-yr-old-girl/articleshow/77207818.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Shimla||Of 94 tested +ve in HP, 31 from Nahan locality||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh reported 94 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Monday, taking the state’s tally for the killer virus to 2,270. Eighteen patients recovered too, with which active cases in the state reached 1,025 and recovered patients reached 1,216. This is the first time that active cases in the state are more than 1,000. A locality in Sirmaur’s Nahan town accounted for 31 of the new cases. Govindgarh Mohalla, where 11 men, 14 women and six children have been found infected, has emerged as a hotspot for coronavirus infection since July 15. Among other districts, 16 new cases were from Kangra district, 15 from Solan, 11 from Bilaspur, 10 from Mandi, five from Shimla, three from Chamba, two from Una, and one from Hamirpur. Of the patients who recovered, six are from Kullu, four are from Una, three from Mandi, two each from Shimla and Chamba, and one from Solan. So far, 12 people have succumbed to virus and the death of two patients has been due to non-Covid reasons. In Kangra, four new cases are of army personnel and two of paramilitary troopers. The Army men who tested positive include three jawans aged 21, 30 and 40 who arrived from Leh, and a 21-year-old recruit who arrived from Bengaluru on July 19. While one of the paramilitary personnel is a 56-year-old trooper who returned from Srinagar on July 18, the other is a 45-year-old trooper who returned from West Bengal on July 19. In Mandi district, three cases have been reported from Bassi Gohar, and one each from Kangu in Sundernagar, Dagyal in Thunag, Sarkaghat, Bagasyad and Medical College Ner Chowk. In Chamba district, a two-year-old girl is among the new patients. Solan has reported the highest number of cases in the state, 548, of which 366 are active, 176 have recovered and six have migrated out of state. Kangra has the second highest number of cases, 422, of which 106 are active, 311 have recovered, three have died and two have migrated out of state. Hamirpur has the third highest number of cases, 300, of which 21 are active, 276 have recovered and three have died. Sirmaur has reported 273 cases. A total of 1,34,606 persons had been tested for Covid-19 in the state till Saturday. Of them, 1,31,862 tested negative, while results of 474 samples were awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/of-94-tested-ve-in-hp-31-from-nahan-locality/articleshow/77207833.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Akola-Akot rail section gets broad gauge line||AURANGABAD: Almost a decade after the project was sanctioned, the South Central Railway (SCR) has announced the commissioning of the new broad gauge railway line between Akola and Akot stations, for a distance of 44km, by replacing the single line. SCR chief public relations officer Ch Rakesh on Monday said the salient features of the new gauge conversion include 38 minor bridges and two major bridges, which were reconstructed as part of the gauge conversion works. “In addition, one important bridge was reconstructed. Also, five station buildings were reconstructed and high-level platforms and passenger amenities were built. The broad gauge conversion saw the replacement of 22 level crossing (LC) gates with road underbridges (RUB,” he said. Akola station yard has also been modified and one new loop line has been constructed in addition to the existing three lines. These works are a part of the first phase of broad gauge conversion on the Akola-Khandwa section, which is the only meter-gauge railway line existing in SCR jurisdiction. The proposed second phase includes the Akot-Amlakhurd section of 77km and Amlakhurd-Khandwa section of 54km. The project was okayed in 2008-09 with a sanctioned cost of Rs 2,067 crore. Railway activist Omprakash Varma said the SCR should expedite remaining gauge conversion work at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/akola-akot-rail-section-gets-broad-gauge-line/articleshow/77204888.cms||Prasad Joshi
July 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Rs 244 crore used from CM’s relief fund for Covid treatment||AHMEDABAD: The state government on Monday said that a total of Rs 244 crore was spent from the CM Relief Fund for treatment and containment of Covid-19 in the state till July 27. The CM office mentioned that so far, Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has been allocated Rs 50 crore, Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) Rs 15 crore, Vadodara and Rajkot municipal corporations Rs 10 crore each, Bhavnagar, Gandhinagar and Jamnagar municipal corporations Rs 5 crore each for fight against Covid-19. Another Rs 100 crore have been allocated to the state health & family welfare department to procure medicines and medical equipment. So far, the department has spent Rs 11.8 crore of the amount, said a press release by the CM office. The officials said that a total of Rs 15.4 crore were used to procure 20.9 lakh N-95 masks, PPE kits, hand gloves and sanitizers. Another Rs 15.5 crore were spent on procuring essential medicines whereas Rs 19.7 crore were spent for screening and diagnostics of the citizens for Covid-19. In Ahmedabad city alone, about 250 patients were given tocilizumab injection at the cost of Rs 1 crore. ‘Gujarat Medical Services Corporation Ltd (GMSCL) has given a total of 593 injections to the city, out of which about 450 have been used for treatment,’ mentioned the release. About six lakh citizens have been screened by 110 Dhanvantari Rath (mobile OPD vans) in Ahmedabad. In Surat, GMSCL has allocated medicines worth Rs 11.5 crore and medical equipment worth Rs 4 crore. The Diamond City is given 653 tocilizumab and 1,335 remdesivir injections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs-244cr-used-from-cms-relief-fund-for-covid-treatment/articleshow/77207832.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Gold glitters amid economic uncertainties||Amritsar: The uncertain economic scenario is pushing people to revert to the traditional form of investment — gold. Unprecedented rise in the demand for 24 karat gold has caused a demand-supply gap in the bullion market. Investors hope to earn rich dividends while playing it safe by keeping their investment close to them in physical form. Satinderpal Singh, a 24k gold supplier, told TOI that investor interest has caused a spike in demand for pure gold. The precious metal is delivered to investors in two to three days after booking. The general public, on the other hand, opts for gold jewellery. On Monday, 24k gold was priced at Rs 53,700 per 10 grams, while silver was being sold for Rs 64,000 per kilogram. The demand for gold has been fuelled by a lack of faith in the banking sector and slump in the real estate market, he said. Although gold has been the traditional form of investment for Indians down the ages, the resurgence of interest can also be attributed to media reports on the Bank of America Securities (BofA Sec), stating that gold prices in the international market may rise to $3,000 per ounce (Oz) by the end of 2021. If that happens, 24k gold price could rise above Rs 73,000 per 10 grams, which, going by the current rate, is around 36% appreciation within a year. Pure gold on Monday traded at Multi Commodity Exchange (MCX), an online platform for trading in various commodities including precious metals, around Rs 52,220 per 10 grams, while pure silver was priced around Rs 63,710 per kilogram. “This does not include GST, so there is a difference between MCX and local market price,” explained Satinder when asked about the price difference. A month ago, he said, pure silver was being sold at around Rs 45,000 per kilogram.“People are diversifying their risk. Banks don’t give any assurance on fixed deposits in case of an eventuality except for a paltry sum. Property market is not picking up. A few people are investing in the stock market but many are showing interest in investing in gold because they can physically possess the yellow metal and it can also be purchased in any quantity with black money too,” said sources in the bullion market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/gold-glitters-amid-economic-uncertainties/articleshow/77207816.cms||Yudhvir Rana
July 28, 2020||Hyderabad||New portal for citizen services||Secunderabad: To deliver various citizen-centric services to the residents of the Secunderabad Cantonment areas, SCB officials will launch a new portal— e-Chhawani— in August first week. Residents can obtain new trade licences, water connections and other utility services through the web portal. On Monday, the SCB authorities put the portal to test. The Ministry of Defence (MoD) had chosen five out of 62 Cantonments in the country and SCB is one of the Cantonment boards after Delhi, Lucknow, Agra, and Pune, to implement the new initiative. “For instance, traders who obtain trade licences have to visit the SCB portal and upload the necessary documents, address of the commercial unit and two passport size photos of the applicant and wait for 30 days. The SCB CEO will issue the trade licence, after a thorough inspection by the SCB health and sanitation wing,” M Devender, SCB senior superintendent (SWM), told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-portal-for-citizen-services/articleshow/77207821.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Ganesh festivities without fanfare||Secunderabad: The Ganesh Chaturthi festivities are set to be a low-key affair this year with the Bhagyanagar Ganesh Utsav Samithi on Monday issueing norms to be followed during the course of the celebrations.While the idol immersion will take place on September 1, the general secretary of the Utsav Samithi, Bhagvanth Rao, has directed the organisers to ensure no mass gatherings in the pandals. Only a few people will be allowed for the immersion procession, provided they maintain physical distancing. In addition to this, preventive measures like masks, sanitizers and gloves are mandatory for people. He also appealed to the organisers to not install gigantic idols. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ganesh-festivities-without-fanfare/articleshow/77207729.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP taps into local talent pool to meet mismatch in labour demand-supply||With the Covid-19 pandemic throwing up massive challenges for industries in the area of availability of labour, the Andhra Pradesh government is undertaking an exercise of mapping skills in each and every district and matching it with demand from local industries. “We realised that we have in-house labour that we have not yet tapped. That is the reason the AP government has gone back to the drawing board and is looking at various assets and people available with us and we will be mapping them very soon. The aim is to understand what the workforce is doing and how can we get them back to work,” said Mekapati Goutham Reddy, minister for industries, commerce, IT, skill development & training, infrastructure & investments, at the inaugural session of TOI virtual conclave ‘Reboot Andhra Pradesh: Making Andhra Pradesh Future Positive’, on Monday. The government is also looking to launch an app for mapping manpower. The event is supported by Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited in association with Visakhapatnam Special Economic Zone, Eastern Power Distribution Company of Andhra Pradesh, Coastal Local Area Bank and TNR Talent High School. Highlighting woes faced by industries at Sri City, Ravindra Sannareddy, founder and MD, Sri City Pvt Ltd, said one of the biggest challenges is that many volunteers and village heads have been obstructing the movement of workers in the area. Even Pradosh Kumar Rath, chairman and MD, RINL, pointed out that the steel industry which was massively hit during the lockdown, is slowly but steadily growing as it has been exporting to China, where demand has risen after the reopening of the economy. Going ahead, he said, the Indian steel industry will have to focus on cost reduction, better capacity utilisations and maintain cash flows to remain competitive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-taps-into-local-talent-pool-to-meet-mismatch-in-labour-demand-supply/articleshow/77206266.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Nashik||Jalgaon admin for oxygen support in gram panchayat||Nashik: Jalgaon district collector Abhijit Raut has decided to start an oxygen support system at the gram panchayat level so that people suffering from breathlessness, which is a primary Covid symptoms, can be given relief until the ambulance arrives. Raut said, “We have decided that the gram panchayats can buy an oxygen cylinder at the cost of around Rs 11,000 and thus prepare a makeshift arrangements for the people suffering from breathlessness at their village-level.” This would serve as an important tool to save the lives of the people as they wait for the ambulance to transport them to the nearest Covid facilities, he said. Raut said providing the oxygen support is not very complex. A couple of chairs, disposable tubes and masks, and small instruction set on how to use the cylinder was enough for the process. The ambulance is equipped with oxygen cylinders and hence it would take up from there. Raut said the administration had increased the count of oxygen supply attached beds which has helped in bringing down the mortality rate. At present, there are at least 1,200 oxygen-beds across government facilities only in Jalgaon district, which includes 600 in rural areas. Considering the private establishments, there are about 2,000 beds which is enough for the district that has 2,974 active patients. The death rate has come down below 4.8% and the recovery rate has increased from 59.2% to 64.6%. With the availability of antigen test along with the X-ray, the health teams are now able to identify Covid patients and provide treatment at the earliest which is also helping in the patients’ recovery, the collector added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jalgaon-admin-for-oxygen-support-in-gram-panchayat/articleshow/77204949.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Farmers hold black flag protests||Coimbatore: Members of the All India Farmers’ Protest Coordination Committee conducted black flag protests in Tirupur district on Monday against the central government’s Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020.“As many as 62 people in Tamil Nadu had sacrificed their lives during the protest demanding free electricity for farmers. The state government decided to provide free electricity only after years of protest. If the legislation is passed, then free electricity provided to farmers, weavers and public will be stopped,” said district secretary of All India Kisan Sabha R Kumar.The farmers also opposed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 and Tamil Nadu Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation) Second Amendment Ordinance 2020. They will scrap the minimum support price system and allow traders to fix the price on their own, and to stock produce, Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/farmers-hold-black-flag-protests/articleshow/77207823.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Burglar gang busted in Cyderabad, Rs 65 lakh property seized||CYDERABAD: Cyberabad police arrested a burglar and three of his associates in connection with a recent robbery in Alwal and seized property worth Rs 65 lakh from their possession. Central Crime Station (CCS) Balanagar team of Cyberabad commissionerate arrested M Vamshidhar Reddy, who runs a tea stall in Medchal, for committing a theft at Alwal. Police also arrested his wife Pushpalatha, their associates Shiva Kumar, a private employee from Kukatpally and K Laxmi Narsimha Bhargav Rama Rao, attender at chief commissioner of land administration, Vijayawada, for helping him in disposing of the stolen property. Police recovered Rs 53.3 lakh cash, 20 tola gold, documents of a house worth Rs 8.5 lakh, a bike and five cell phones from the possession of the accused. Reddy has a criminal record and has been accused in 72 burglary cases registered in the city, Bhadrachalam, Gajwel, Toopran, Andhra Pradesh and Bengaluru. He was released from Khammam prison on June 26, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/burglar-gang-busted-rs-65l-property-seized/articleshow/77207841.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Pyare Mian remanded to police custody till July 30||BHOPAL: Pyare Mian, accused of raping and sexually exploiting minor girls, was produced before the court on Monday from where he was once remanded to police custody for three more days. Police recovered the pistol which Pyare used to brandish and threaten the minor survivors to follow his orders. He was given custody of Koh-e-Fiza police till July 30. Additional district prosecution officer (ADPO) Manoj Tripathi said that Pyare Mian was produced before a special court by Shahpura police as his remand ended. Koh-e-Fiza police sought his remand for five days to investigate the rape and exploitation case filed by a 16-year-old girl against him. Police seeking his remand said that Pyare Mian raped the minor girl for around three years and threatened her and her parents when they objected and also forcefully got the minor aborted. These charges have to be verified. Tripathi said that special judge Munshi Singh Chandrawat allowed police remand of three days till July 30 and handed over Pyare Mian to the custody of Koh-e-Fiza police. SP (South) Sai Krishna S Thota said that police have recovered the pistol Pyare used to terrorise his victims from his office at Malviya Nagar. Police I verifying whether he has a gun license. If he doesn’t have a gun license a case under Arms Act will be registered against him. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/pyare-mian-remanded-to-police-custody-till-july-30/articleshow/77208597.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Hindu Munnani, VHP besiege police station||Coimbatore: Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) and Hindu Munnani cadres besieged Kuniyamuthur police station on Monday demanding that cops should not take action against some people who drew pictures of ‘vel’ (spears) on city roads and public places on Sunday.They drew the vel pictures to condemn the Karuppar Koottam YouTube channel which presented Kanda Sashti Kavacham, a hymn in praise of Lord Muruga. BJP, Hindu Munnani and VHP cadres drew vels – Lord Murugan’s weapon -- to express their support to Kanda Sashti Kavacham.The Kuniyamuthur police registered cases against Hindu outfit members Gurubaran, Santhosh, Arunkumar, Sivaganesh and Akshay Varma under the Tamil Nadu Open Places (Prevention of Disfigurement) Act on Sunday evening and picked five people for inquiry on Monday.Several members of the outfits gathered in front of the police station. They sat on the road. They demanded that the police release the five people who were picked up by them for inquiry. The protesters sang bhajans.VHP state joint secretary Amarnath Sivalingam doused himself with petrol and attempted to set himself ablaze. Police managed to stop him. There was commotion when police tried to stop him. He was removed from the spot by the police.Cedric Manuel, assistant commissioner of police (law&order- south sub-division), Coimbatore city, held talks with the protesters and assured them that police would release the five people under station bail. Later, the protesters dispersed.Police said an FIR would be registered against the protesters for violating the prohibitory orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/hindu-munnani-vhp-besiege-police-station/articleshow/77207820.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Nagpur||12 test Covid positive in Wardha||Wardha: 12 more persons reported positive on Monday. They include two children, four women and six men, from Arvi (5), Wardha (3), Manikwada village (2) and Sarvadi village (1). Five persons tested positive from Arvi, including 25-year-old woman, and men aged 76, 65 and 34 years. A 37-year old man and 35-year-old woman of Manikwada village of Ashti tehsil and 27-year-old man from Sarvadi village of Karanja tehsil also tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/12-test-covid-positive-in-wardha/articleshow/77207838.cms||Balwant Dhage
July 28, 2020||Jaipur||Rojgar Abhiyaan: PHED warned for poor performance||Jaipur: With just 0.47% progress under Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) to provide functional household tap connection (FHTC) to every rural household and only 0.5% financial progress under the scheme, chief secretary Rajeeva Swarup during a review of Garib Kalyan Rojgar Yojana (GKRA) reprimanded the officials of PHED for poor performance and directed the officials of the department to improve the progress of work. In absence of principal secretary PHED, Rajesh Yadav, the other officials from the department who were present in the meeting, were asked to pull up their socks, according to officials who attended the review meet. Of the total target of 3,384 villages, only 16 have been touched so far, under JJM. Of the total financial target of 1864.26 crore, only Rs 0.92 crore was spent. Like the Campa fund, under the forest and environment department, in many other schemes/departments, there was a huge gap between physical and financial progress of the works. Under CAMPA fund, while the physical progress was 29.56% (2414.82 of 8168.42 hectares), the financial progress was just 3.01% (Rs 1.35 crore of Rs 44.8 crore), as per data available with the nodal department (rural development). “The lack of fund flow is the reason behind this. It was decided that the release of funds will be expedited in future. Moreover, it was decided that ACS finance (Niranjan Arya) will be an invitee member in the core group,” said an official. “Since energy department has no role in execution of PM Kusum Yojana, it was also decided that principal secretary in-charge of energy need not attend the meeting in future. The solar pumps are installed by the agriculture/horticulture department. The role of the energy department is to provide subsidies,” said an informed source. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rojgar-abhiyaan-phed-warned-for-poor-performance/articleshow/77208615.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Lucknow||Uddhav draws VHP’s ire for suggesting ‘e-bhoomi pujan’||Lucknow: A day after Shiv Sena president and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray suggested that the ‘bhoomi pujan’ for Ram Temple in Ayodhya could be conducted through video conferencing, VHP working president Alok Kumar on Monday shot back saying that the statement shows his blind opposition to the function and hints at the fall of a Hindutva party led by legendary Bala Saheb Thackeray. Kumar said ‘bhoomi poojan’ was an essential and sacred ritual before any construction work. “We worship mother earth, seek her permission to dig and construct structures and take blessing to complete the task. This cannot be done through e-conference,” he remarked. The VHP leader maintained that all activities were being carried out across the country with due precautions to check the spread of coronavirus. Kumar cited the example of Supreme Court’s permission for taking out of symbolic Jagannath Yatra. “Rituals of Shri Amarnath Yatra have been performed though the yatra is not permitted this year,” he said. Kumar said the VHP had made it clear that only 200 people would be allowed to participate in the function and all health and security advisories would be followed. “The concern expressed by Thackeray on public health are only apprehensions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uddhav-draws-vhps-ire-for-suggesting-e-bhoomi-pujan/articleshow/77208628.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Coimbatore||Absentees write Class XII exam||Coimbatore: Class XII students in the district, who could not write the last board exam in March due to the lockdown, appeared for re-exam on Monday.Of the 22 students who had registered, 18 attended the exam at 14 centres. Of the four absent students, one was a regular student and others private candidates. The candidates were asked to wear masks and use hand sanitisers. They were let into the exam centres after being screened for fever.As many as 29 teachers were pressed into exam service, school education department officials said.In Tirupur, only 30 of the 44 students wrote the re-exam held at six centres. Forty teachers were pressed into exam duty.The 2020 Class XII board exams were scheduled from March 2 to March 24. As the first phase of the nation-wide lockdown was imposed from March 23, more than 34,000 students from the state were not able to write the last exam for Chemistry, Accountancy and Geography.Of the 846 students across the state, who had received hall tickets to write the re-exam, only 519 turned up at 293 centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/absentees-write-class-xii-exam/articleshow/77207840.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Cabinet nod for ordinace to delay finance bill||Thiruvananthapuram: The state cabinet decided to amend the Kerala Provisional Collection of Revenues Act of 1985 as the assembly session could not be convened to pass the finance bill for 2020-21. The amendment has been brought in to allow the government to collect revenues for 180 days from the existing 120 days. Now the state cabinet will have to pass the finance bill before the end of September. As per the Act, the government can only collect revenues for 120 days if the finance bill is not passed. Now this provision has been extended to 60 more days. Chief minister Pinarayi Vjayan said the amendment had to be done since the assembly session cannot be convened due to the existing situation. Similarly, the state cabinet also decided to amend the Kerala Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act to take a loan of Rs 1,471 crore. The Centre had given sanction to take a one-time loan of Rs 1,471 crore subject to the condition that an amendment has to be brought in the Act. The state government has decided to utilize this loan facility depending upon the prevailing financial position, said the chief minister. As per the Act, the fiscal deficit of the state should be limited to 3% of the total domestic production. For ensuring this, it has been decided to take the one-time loan and hence the amendment in the Act, said the chief minister. The state cabinet also decided to donate Rs 2 crore as flood relief to Assam government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cabinet-nod-for-ordinace-to-delay-finance-bill/articleshow/77206279.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Hyderabad||4 injured in pipe blast at factory||Hyderabad: Four workers in a chemical factory suffered injuries after a pipe blasted on Sunday night in Balanagar. Police said that the incident took place around 3 am, when four workers were standing outside the factory. The company manufactures raw materials for medicine. One of the pipes burst due to exceeding pressure, consequently collapsing a wall. The workers Srikanth, Chowdary, Govid Singh and Anantha Sharma suffered minor injuries and were shifted to hospital. A case has been registered. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-injured-in-pipe-blast-at-factory/articleshow/77207822.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Sharad Pawar meets Muslim leaders; Bakri Eid rules may be revised||MUMBAI: Dismayed by the state government’s ‘ambiguous’ guidelines for Bakri Eid celebratuions, including symbolic qurbani, online purchase of goats and their transportation into the city, Muslim leaders turned to NCP chief Sharad Pawar for help, who then called a meeting on Monday to resolve the matter. After lending a ‘patient’ ear to the Muslim leaders, Pawar sent Congress ministers Balasaheb Thorat and Anil Deshmukh to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray “to discuss the matter”. Sources said that the Maha Vikas Agadi government is likely to issue revised guidelines for Bakri Eid celebrations in a day or two. The festival falls on August 1. The meeting held at Y B Chavan Centre was attended by ministers Thorat, Deshmukh, Nawab Malik, Jitendra Awhad, former ministers Arif Naseem Khan and Baba Siddiqui, MLAs Amin Patel, Abu Asim Azmi, Rais Shaikh, Zeeshan Siddiqui and several senior bureaucrats and police and civic officers. “Our first demand was that transportation of goats be made easy. There have been complaints of cops stopping vehicles ferrying goats into the city,” said SP leader Rais Shaikh. “I also demanded that slaughter of buffaloes at Deonar be allowed on Bakri Eid and arrangements for temporary slaughter at small towns like Bhiwandi be permitted.” Former Congress minister Arif Naseem Khan concurred and reiterated his demand to withdraw the symbolic qurbani guideline. Congress legislator Amin Patel said that Pawar heard them patiently and agreed that the transportation of goats to those who have booked them online for the festival should be hassle-free. Congress MLA Zeeshan Siddiqui said the issue of allowing slaughter in housing societies was also raised at the meeting. “With social distancing norms in place due to coronavirus, people should be allowed to slaughter goats in buildings,” he said. His father, former minister Baba Siddiqui too objected to the “harassment” of traders transporting goats into the city. Meanwhile, former MIM legislator Waris Pathan complained that he was not invited for the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pawar-meets-muslim-leaders-bakri-eid-rules-may-be-revised/articleshow/77207845.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
July 28, 2020||Jodhpur||Jodhpur discom official, middleman held for bribery||JAISALMER: The special unit of ACB Jodhpur, on the direction of Jodhpur zone ACB DIG Vishnu Kant, arrested the technical assistant of Jodhpur discom and a middleman while taking a bribe of Rs 20,000 at Padru village in Siwana area of Barmer district. The accused had asked for the bribe over the ‘irregularities’ in electricity meter of a salon. ACB special unit additional SP Durgsingh Rajpurohit said that on Monday morning, the special unit arrested the technical assistant of Jodhpur discom and a private middleman at Padru village. The bribe amount was demanded from a salon owner to settle the alleged irregularities in the electricity meter. He said Devaram had lodged a complaint that he has a salon at Padru village and technical assistant Naval Kishore Meena and a junior engineer Jitendra Saini had come to his shop and took away the electricity meter, stating that there were irregularities in it. Later, Meena called Devaram and demanded Rs 20,000 to settle the ‘irregularities’. After verification of the complaint, on Monday, Meena and the middleman Bhagwan Prasad were arrested. The ACB is probing the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jodhpur-discom-official-middleman-held-for-bribery/articleshow/77216955.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Goa||‘Conduct swab testing every 15 days’||Saligao: With a spike in Covid-19 cases, Mapusa residents have demanded that swab collection be done every 15 days, while sanitisation of the town and its surrounding areas should be carried out on a daily basis. A number of cases were detected in Khorlim, Xelpem, Ganganagar, Shetye Vaddo and other areas of Mapusa, creating fear and anxiety among the locals. Mapusa local Shekar Naik said that during the earlier lockdowns, sanitation of the KTC bus stand was being carried out, but now with cases rising, it is even more necessary to undertake such measures. Suryakant Chodankar, another local, said, “The lives of conductors and drivers of the private and KTC buses, as well as commuters are at risk as beggars, drunkards and homeless migrants who loiter around without face masks and spend the night at the bus stand don’t maintain hygiene and are not tested. The authorities should immediately move the beggars and homeless migrants to a shelter home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/conduct-swab-testing-every-15-days/articleshow/77208617.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Body of Telangana worker yet to arrive from Iraq||HYDERABAD: Nearly a month after he had died of cancer at Erbil in Iraq, a Nizamabad worker’s body is yet to be sent home. Social workers in Iraq approached the Consulate General of India (CGI) in Erbil to facilitate the transportation of the mortal remains of 46-year-old Parymola Bojanna. In response to a mail from Naveen Achari, general secretary of Telangana Jagruthi, CGI Erbil said Bojanna’s body would be sent on July 23 or July 25. This, however, did not happen. “We have been informed it would be sent on July 30,” Naveen said. The expenditure for transportation of the body is being borne by Indian community welfare fund. Bojanna died on June 29. According to a medical report issued by the Kurdistan regional government, he died of lung cancer. He took part in a protest in front of CGI office demanding that he along with others be accommodated on the Vande Bharat flights to India since he was unwell. He hailed from Dharpally in Nizamabad. Social workers have also approached the CGI to send the body of 50-year-old Kondagurla Shankar, who died on July 22. Some workers had literally carried an unwell Shankar to the CGI office to show that his condition was critical and that his travel to India should be facilitated. hankar’s family belongs to Jannaram mandal in Mancherial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/body-of-t-worker-yet-to-arrive-from-iraq/articleshow/77207850.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 28, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Graft alleged in library council appointments||Thiruvananthapuram: The Kerala Grandhasala Samrakshana Samithi has alleged the CPM is sponsoring corruption and nepotism in Kerala Library Council. The state government has recently regularised the service of 46 daily wage employees on the pretext that they had been working on contract basis well before a decision was made to hand over the appointment rights to PSC. “The state cabinet decided to appoint 46 persons on a retrospective effect. UDF government had earlier cancelled regularisation of their service. The new appointments have been made after withdrawing the writ appeal filed by the former government in the high court. The orders ratifying the approval was issues by higher education department on July 20,” Samithi chairman R S Sasikumar said in a statement. All the appointees are connected to the CPM in one way or another. As many as 41 LD clerks and six attenders would be thus become government employees through the backdoor. Their arrears alone would cost the exchequer Rs 8 crore, the Samithi said. This, they said, is at a time the government has drastically cut the grant to rural libraries and refused to hike in the allowance given to librarians. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/graft-alleged-in-library-council-appointments/articleshow/77206303.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Jaipur||RBSE Class X board exam result today||Ajmer: Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education will declare the results of Class X on 28 July. Board chairman DP Jalori said that the result will be released at about 4pm by education minister Govind Singh Dotasra in Shiksha Sankul, Jaipur. This year about 11,85,000 students registered for this exam. The exams began in the first week of March but were discontinued on March 20 because of lockdown. Later remaining exams of various subjects were conducted in the last week of June. The board has already declared the result of Class XII. Similarly, the CBSE has also already declared the results of Class X and XII exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rbse-class-x-board-exam-result-today/articleshow/77208621.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: From 80%, Covid share of 8 big cities drops to 51% in July||AHMEDABAD: On June 23, the daily Covid-19 share of eight cities of Gujarat – Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Bhavnagar, Gandhinagar, Junagadh and Jamnagar which are governed by municipal corporations – was 80%. Out of 549 cases recorded daily, 437 cases were from these cities while only 112 were detected in other districts. A month later – as the state touched its highest daily tally of 1,110 on July 26 – the share of eight cities plummeted to a record low of 48% with a tally of 533 while the rest of the state recorded the highest ever case tally of 577 cases. Compared to June 23, the rise was 22% in urban areas while the countryside recorded an alarming five fold rise in viral infection. On Monday, the tally improved a bit – with the eight cities recording 51% of the cases with a tally of 538 against 514 in the rest of the state. “There is a marked shift pattern of Covid-19 spread. Earlier it was concentrated in the densely-populated clusters of cities such as Ahmedabad and Surat. But unlock 1 and 2 witnessed massive migration from the urban areas to interiors of the state,” said a citybased epidemiologist Surat surpasses city in new casesSurat city overtook Ahmedabad as the biggest contributor of Covid-19 cases in Gujarat in the past 30 days. Compared to 5,166 cases in Ahmedabad from June 28 to July 27, Surat added 5,963 cases. Ahmedabad’s daily cases average was 172 compared to Surat’s 199. The two cities together account for 42.6% of the cases recorded in Gujarat. However, Ahmedabad saw more deaths than the Diamond City, with 164 deaths in past 30 days, slightly higher than Surat’s157. The two cities accounted for 57.5% of Gujarat’s deaths in this period. While Ahmedabad’s share was 29%, Surat’s was 28%, analysis of the figures revealed. Ahmedabad’s death rate for the past 30 days was 3.2%, compared to Surat’s 2.6%. The cumulative death rate for the eight biggest cities in the state was 2.5%, compared to1.7% for the rest of the state. On July 26, for the first time, the share of the eight municipal corporations in Gujarat – Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Bhavnagar, Jamnagar, Junagadh and Gandhinagar – went below 50% of the daily cases, at 48%. The share of these cities has seen a constant decline from 80% on June 23 to 48% on July 26. Experts attribute the steady increase of Covid-19 cases in rural areas of the districts to multiple factors. Compared to Covid cases, deaths were found to be concentrated in cities – in the past 30 days, Gujarat recorded 558 Covid deaths of which 374 were from the eight cities, a 67:33 ratio. Thus, two of every three deaths of Covid patients took place in city hospitals or homes, state health department figures revealed. “After Ahmedabad, Surat has emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot in terms of cases and deaths. Stringent measures are required to ensure that the spread doesn’t become uncontrollable in areas outside cities, where the health infrastructure is not very strong,” said a city-based epidemiologist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-from-80-covid-share-of-8-big-cities-drops-to-51-in-july/articleshow/77207861.cms||Parth Shastri
July 28, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: From 80%, Covid share of 8 big cities drops to 51% in July||AHMEDABAD: On June 23, the daily Covid-19 share of eight cities of Gujarat – Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Bhavnagar, Gandhinagar, Junagadh and Jamnagar which are governed by municipal corporations – was 80%. Out of 549 cases recorded daily, 437 cases were from these cities while only 112 were detected in other districts. A month later – as the state touched its highest daily tally of 1,110 on July 26 – the share of eight cities plummeted to a record low of 48% with a tally of 533 while the rest of the state recorded the highest ever case tally of 577 cases. Compared to June 23, the rise was 22% in urban areas while the countryside recorded an alarming five fold rise in viral infection. On Monday, the tally improved a bit – with the eight cities recording 51% of the cases with a tally of 538 against 514 in the rest of the state. “There is a marked shift pattern of Covid-19 spread. Earlier it was concentrated in the densely-populated clusters of cities such as Ahmedabad and Surat. But unlock 1 and 2 witnessed massive migration from the urban areas to interiors of the state,” said a citybased epidemiologist Surat surpasses city in new casesSurat city overtook Ahmedabad as the biggest contributor of Covid-19 cases in Gujarat in the past 30 days. Compared to 5,166 cases in Ahmedabad from June 28 to July 27, Surat added 5,963 cases. Ahmedabad’s daily cases average was 172 compared to Surat’s 199. The two cities together account for 42.6% of the cases recorded in Gujarat. However, Ahmedabad saw more deaths than the Diamond City, with 164 deaths in past 30 days, slightly higher than Surat’s157. The two cities accounted for 57.5% of Gujarat’s deaths in this period. While Ahmedabad’s share was 29%, Surat’s was 28%, analysis of the figures revealed. Ahmedabad’s death rate for the past 30 days was 3.2%, compared to Surat’s 2.6%. The cumulative death rate for the eight biggest cities in the state was 2.5%, compared to1.7% for the rest of the state. On July 26, for the first time, the share of the eight municipal corporations in Gujarat – Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Bhavnagar, Jamnagar, Junagadh and Gandhinagar – went below 50% of the daily cases, at 48%. The share of these cities has seen a constant decline from 80% on June 23 to 48% on July 26. Experts attribute the steady increase of Covid-19 cases in rural areas of the districts to multiple factors. Compared to Covid cases, deaths were found to be concentrated in cities – in the past 30 days, Gujarat recorded 558 Covid deaths of which 374 were from the eight cities, a 67:33 ratio. Thus, two of every three deaths of Covid patients took place in city hospitals or homes, state health department figures revealed. “After Ahmedabad, Surat has emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot in terms of cases and deaths. Stringent measures are required to ensure that the spread doesn’t become uncontrollable in areas outside cities, where the health infrastructure is not very strong,” said a city-based epidemiologist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gujarat-from-80-covid-share-of-8-big-cities-drops-to-51-in-july/articleshow/77210923.cms||Parth Shastri
July 28, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: From 80%, Covid share of 8 big cities drops to 51% in July||AHMEDABAD: On June 23, the daily Covid-19 share of eight cities of Gujarat – Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Bhavnagar, Gandhinagar, Junagadh and Jamnagar which are governed by municipal corporations – was 80%. Out of 549 cases recorded daily, 437 cases were from these cities while only 112 were detected in other districts. A month later – as the state touched its highest daily tally of 1,110 on July 26 – the share of eight cities plummeted to a record low of 48% with a tally of 533 while the rest of the state recorded the highest ever case tally of 577 cases. Compared to June 23, the rise was 22% in urban areas while the countryside recorded an alarming five fold rise in viral infection. On Monday, the tally improved a bit – with the eight cities recording 51% of the cases with a tally of 538 against 514 in the rest of the state. “There is a marked shift pattern of Covid-19 spread. Earlier it was concentrated in the densely-populated clusters of cities such as Ahmedabad and Surat. But unlock 1 and 2 witnessed massive migration from the urban areas to interiors of the state,” said a citybased epidemiologist Surat surpasses city in new casesSurat city overtook Ahmedabad as the biggest contributor of Covid-19 cases in Gujarat in the past 30 days. Compared to 5,166 cases in Ahmedabad from June 28 to July 27, Surat added 5,963 cases. Ahmedabad’s daily cases average was 172 compared to Surat’s 199. The two cities together account for 42.6% of the cases recorded in Gujarat. However, Ahmedabad saw more deaths than the Diamond City, with 164 deaths in past 30 days, slightly higher than Surat’s157. The two cities accounted for 57.5% of Gujarat’s deaths in this period. While Ahmedabad’s share was 29%, Surat’s was 28%, analysis of the figures revealed. Ahmedabad’s death rate for the past 30 days was 3.2%, compared to Surat’s 2.6%. The cumulative death rate for the eight biggest cities in the state was 2.5%, compared to1.7% for the rest of the state. On July 26, for the first time, the share of the eight municipal corporations in Gujarat – Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Bhavnagar, Jamnagar, Junagadh and Gandhinagar – went below 50% of the daily cases, at 48%. The share of these cities has seen a constant decline from 80% on June 23 to 48% on July 26. Experts attribute the steady increase of Covid-19 cases in rural areas of the districts to multiple factors. Compared to Covid cases, deaths were found to be concentrated in cities – in the past 30 days, Gujarat recorded 558 Covid deaths of which 374 were from the eight cities, a 67:33 ratio. Thus, two of every three deaths of Covid patients took place in city hospitals or homes, state health department figures revealed. “After Ahmedabad, Surat has emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot in terms of cases and deaths. Stringent measures are required to ensure that the spread doesn’t become uncontrollable in areas outside cities, where the health infrastructure is not very strong,” said a city-based epidemiologist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gujarat-from-80-covid-share-of-8-big-cities-drops-to-51-in-july/articleshow/77210921.cms||Parth Shastri
July 28, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: From 80%, Covid share of 8 big cities drops to 51% in July||AHMEDABAD: On June 23, the daily Covid-19 share of eight cities of Gujarat – Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Bhavnagar, Gandhinagar, Junagadh and Jamnagar which are governed by municipal corporations – was 80%. Out of 549 cases recorded daily, 437 cases were from these cities while only 112 were detected in other districts. A month later – as the state touched its highest daily tally of 1,110 on July 26 – the share of eight cities plummeted to a record low of 48% with a tally of 533 while the rest of the state recorded the highest ever case tally of 577 cases. Compared to June 23, the rise was 22% in urban areas while the countryside recorded an alarming five fold rise in viral infection. On Monday, the tally improved a bit – with the eight cities recording 51% of the cases with a tally of 538 against 514 in the rest of the state. “There is a marked shift pattern of Covid-19 spread. Earlier it was concentrated in the densely-populated clusters of cities such as Ahmedabad and Surat. But unlock 1 and 2 witnessed massive migration from the urban areas to interiors of the state,” said a citybased epidemiologist Surat surpasses city in new casesSurat city overtook Ahmedabad as the biggest contributor of Covid-19 cases in Gujarat in the past 30 days. Compared to 5,166 cases in Ahmedabad from June 28 to July 27, Surat added 5,963 cases. Ahmedabad’s daily cases average was 172 compared to Surat’s 199. The two cities together account for 42.6% of the cases recorded in Gujarat. However, Ahmedabad saw more deaths than the Diamond City, with 164 deaths in past 30 days, slightly higher than Surat’s157. The two cities accounted for 57.5% of Gujarat’s deaths in this period. While Ahmedabad’s share was 29%, Surat’s was 28%, analysis of the figures revealed. Ahmedabad’s death rate for the past 30 days was 3.2%, compared to Surat’s 2.6%. The cumulative death rate for the eight biggest cities in the state was 2.5%, compared to1.7% for the rest of the state. On July 26, for the first time, the share of the eight municipal corporations in Gujarat – Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Bhavnagar, Jamnagar, Junagadh and Gandhinagar – went below 50% of the daily cases, at 48%. The share of these cities has seen a constant decline from 80% on June 23 to 48% on July 26. Experts attribute the steady increase of Covid-19 cases in rural areas of the districts to multiple factors. Compared to Covid cases, deaths were found to be concentrated in cities – in the past 30 days, Gujarat recorded 558 Covid deaths of which 374 were from the eight cities, a 67:33 ratio. Thus, two of every three deaths of Covid patients took place in city hospitals or homes, state health department figures revealed. “After Ahmedabad, Surat has emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot in terms of cases and deaths. Stringent measures are required to ensure that the spread doesn’t become uncontrollable in areas outside cities, where the health infrastructure is not very strong,” said a city-based epidemiologist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gujarat-from-80-covid-share-of-8-big-cities-drops-to-51-in-july/articleshow/77210922.cms||Parth Shastri
July 28, 2020||Jaipur||Fatehgarh SDM dies in mishap; wife, driver hurt||JAISALMER: RAS officer Anshul Kumar Singh (36) who took charge as SDM of Fatehgarh sub-division of Jaisalmer on July 2 was killed in a road accident on Sunday night. His wife, Meenakshi and driver were seriously injured. They have been referred to Jodhpur. The couple’s 4-year-old son, however, received minor injuries. On Monday the body was handed over to family members. According to sources Singh and his family had gone to Jaisalmer and after visiting Sam sand dunes they were returning to Fatehgarh at night when the accident occurred. Singh died on the spot. According to eye witnesses the government vehicle hit a truck from behind when the truck driver stopped suddenly. District collector Ashish Modi, SP Ajay Singh, former zila pramukh Anjana Meghwal and others reached the spot and began relief work. Singh, who hailed from Jaipur, was from 2019 batch. Prior to this, he was working as trainee RAS in Karauli. This was his first posting. SP Ajay Singh said that the truck has been seized and driver caught. The Fatehgarh market remained closed on Monday. According to the locals, Singh, in a short span of time, had left a very good impression on everyone. He was always ready to hear public grievances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fatehgarh-sdm-dies-in-mishap-wife-driver-hurt/articleshow/77208618.cms||Vimal Bhatia
July 28, 2020||Jaipur||Jodhpur discom official, middleman held for bribery||JAISALMER: The special unit of ACB Jodhpur, on the direction of Jodhpur zone ACB DIG Vishnu Kant, arrested the technical assistant of Jodhpur discom and a middleman while taking a bribe of Rs 20,000 at Padru village in Siwana area of Barmer district. The accused had asked for the bribe over the ‘irregularities’ in electricity meter of a salon. ACB special unit additional SP Durgsingh Rajpurohit said that on Monday morning, the special unit arrested the technical assistant of Jodhpur discom and a private middleman at Padru village. The bribe amount was demanded from a salon owner to settle the alleged irregularities in the electricity meter. He said Devaram had lodged a complaint that he has a salon at Padru village and technical assistant Naval Kishore Meena and a junior engineer Jitendra Saini had come to his shop and took away the electricity meter, stating that there were irregularities in it. Later, Meena called Devaram and demanded Rs 20,000 to settle the ‘irregularities’. After verification of the complaint, on Monday, Meena and the middleman Bhagwan Prasad were arrested. The ACB is probing the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jodhpur-discom-official-middleman-held-for-bribery/articleshow/77208616.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Mumbai||Senior bureaucrat gets a posting after 7 months||MUMBAI: After a seven-month wait, veteran bureaucrat Rajeev Jalota was appointed additional chief secretary (higher and technical education) by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday. Jalota will replace Saurabh Vijay, who was moved to medical education department to relieve Sanjay Mukherjee. Information technology secretary S V R Srinivas will be housing secretary and hold additional charge of IT department. Mhada vice-chairman and managing director Milind Mhaiskar was the front runner to lead the housing department, but it appears that he has missed the bus. Jalota, an IAS officer of the 1988 batch, was earlier GST commissioner. In January, he was replaced by Sanjeev Kumar and since then was without assignment. Initially, he was appointed in the rural development department, but he declined to take up the assignment. Sources said that Mukherjee may be made vice-chairman and MD of state transmission corporation or Cidco. Aurangabad collector Uday Choudhari may be appointed as secretary to the CS in place of Kiran Patil, who has taken over as CEO of Raigad Zilla Parishad. Tribal development secretary Vinita Singhal may be shifted to labour department in place of Rajesh Kumar, who is all set to take over the PWD. In the corridors of power, it is believed that a complete overhaul in the bureaucracy is on the cards. Two additional chief secretary rank officials, Sitaram Kunte and Sanjay Chahande are holding additional charge. Along with GAD, Kunte is holding additional charge of the home department, while Chahande, along with water supply, is holding additional charge of home (appeals and security). In addition, more two dozen senior bureaucrats, who have completed their two year tenure, too are waiting for new assignments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/senior-bureaucrat-gets-a-posting-after-7-months/articleshow/77207919.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP Inc urges govt to strengthen health infra around industrial hubs||Andhra Pradesh’s manufacturing sector, which has been trying to get into a higher gear post the easing of lockdown, has urged the state government to strengthen the health infrastructure in and around the industrial hubs to instil confidence among workers and address the challenges posed by the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the state. “The cases are going up rapidly, we would request the government to allow more testing for labour and set up Covid care centres as this will be of great help for us to continue operations in a stabilised manner,” Ramaswamy Visweswaran, commercial director, Arjas Steel Pvt Ltd, said while speaking at the session on ‘Manufacturing: Gearing up for change in the post-Covid era’ as part of TOI’s ‘Reboot Andhra Pradesh’ conclave, supported by Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited in association with Visakhapatnam Special Economic Zone, Eastern Power Distribution Company of Andhra Pradesh, Coastal Local Area Bank and TNR Talent High School. Manohar Bhat, sales and marketing head, Kia Motors India, said the AP government, that has been meeting all its commitments, can now work towards scaling up medical facilities in and around Anantapur, where Kia Motors plant is located. While Covid-19 has posed many challenges, Visweswaran of Arjas Steel said there have been learnings too. “Earlier, we were of the view that one has to visit customers for sales but now we have virtual meetings and they inspect products virtually,” he said. Srikant Nagulapalli, AP-Transco CMD & energy department secretary, agreed. “Covid-19 has provided an opportunity to domestic manufacturers. Be it distribution or transmission equipment, we are giving priority to local manufacturers,” he said. While there are opportunities, ARM Reddy, development commissioner, Visakhapatnam SEZ said, “The focus on SEZs needs to be sharpened as they were the least affected during the lockdown. There are four districts in AP that do not have SEZs. There are IT SEZs that have been denotified by the government and they must look into it as the IT sector is one the largest generators of employment,” Reddy said. He also urged MSMEs to look at setting up units in VSEZ as there are multiple incentives for them. “We can provide space as small as 1,000 sqft for MSMEs at a very nominal price. Many people think SEZ is meant for big industries but there is space for MSMEs as well,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-inc-urges-govt-to-strengthen-health-infra-around-industrial-hubs/articleshow/77206283.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Coimbatore||National award for TNAU alumnus||Coimbatore: An alumnus of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) has bagged a national award for his doctoral thesis on the prevalence of cotton necrosis disease caused by tobacco streak virus and the ways to manage it.S Vinod Kumar, who did the research on ‘Emergence of tobacco streak virus infecting cotton: Investigations on symptom expression, transmission, spread and management’ as part of his PhD programme in the department of Plant Pathology, visited cotton fields in Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Tamil Nadu. “The instance of the disease is high in Andhra and Telangana, and Tamil Nadu stands next,” he said. The award was given by the Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR). “We found out that hybrid varieties were more susceptible to the disease. Based on the seasonal weather data, the disease was more prevalent in places where temperature was low and relative humidity was high. In Tamil Nadu, it is more prevalent in Coimbatore, Erode and Salem, than the southern districts,” Kumar said.For his research, Kumar also did genome sequencing of the virus and confirmed that all genome of the virus that attacked cotton plants across states is the same. A plant can be infected and not show symptoms, he said. “The severity of the disease can also lead to the plant’s death. To manage the disease, we zeroed in on Bacillus amyloliquefaciens which was isolated from plant roots. This bacterium does anti-viral activity and can be used as a biocontrol agent. We found that it could control the viral disease by 50%. It also helped reduce the yield loss by acting as a plant growth promoting rhizobacteria.”Kumar, a native of Sankarankovil in Tenkasi, was honoured with the ICAR-Jawaharlal Nehru Award under the crop protection category in an online ceremony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/national-award-for-tnau-alumnus/articleshow/77207844.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Goa||One-day assembly was risky: Lobo||Panaji: It was risky to hold the assembly session even for a day, minister for science and technology Michael Lobo said on Monday, before the one-day session began amid protests from opposition leaders. “We could have postponed the session. The one-day session is only to pass the budget,” Lobo said, adding that the government is ready to hold a longer session and answer all questions of the opposition once a vaccine for Covid-19 is out. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/one-day-assembly-was-risky-lobo/articleshow/77208620.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Dead fish in Salim Ali lake spark fresh concern over pollution||AURANGABAD: A large number of dead fish have been found floating in the Salim Ali lake, substantiating claims by experts that pollution is increasing in the historic water body known for its rich biodiversity. The lake also hosts many migratory birds. A spot visit to the lake revealed both small and big fish dead along the periphery of the lake. Environmentalist Kishor Pathak reiterated that the fish died because of growing pollution in the lake. “The death of fish is just the tip of the iceberg. The overall ecosystem of the lake is in grave danger. Repeated pleas for putting a check on the water pollution has fallen on deaf ears,” said said. “The polluted water has led to the growth of algae, which blocks sunlight and harms aquatic life in the lake. The increased pollution levels have prevented sufficient amount of oxygen from getting into the water, thereby leading to the death of fish and other creatures,” added Pathak. Civic garden superintendent Vijay Patil did not respond to the phone calls and text messages sent to him. In the past, TOI has highlighted several times the issue of water pollution that is aggravating with the release of sewage from nearby localities into Salim Ali lake. The lake is considered to be a rich biodiversity hotspot located in the heart of the city. AMC administrator Astik Kumar Pandey paid a visit to Salim Ali Lake on Tuesday evening and inspected the dead fish. “Pande issued directions to strictly check the direct release of sewage into the lake,” said authorities accompanying him. Speed boats would be brought to the water body to tackle the menace of excessive algal growth, added the authorities. Watch Aurangabad: Dead fish in Salim Ali lake spark fresh concern over pollution||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/dead-fish-in-salim-ali-lake-spark-fresh-concern-over-pollution/articleshow/77204913.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Jaipur||Weak monsoon boon for mango lovers||JAIPUR: Weak monsoon in north India including Uttar Pradesh has come as a blessing in disguise for mango lovers. Usually, mangoes go out of season in Rajasthan by mid-July. However this year, ample varieties from UP and Gujarat such as Dusseri, Langra and Chausa are available in Jaipur markets. Since monsoon has been weak so far, it has saved mango crops. Wholesale dealers at Mohana Mandi are getting truckloads of mangoes everyday which has led to prices being well within reach of all sections. “There has been a good produce. After almost five years we are witnessing an extension in the mango season. Usually, the season is over by July 15, when supply of mangoes from Uttar Pradesh falls. But this year, I am sure that for the next fortnight we will have the supply going on,” said Madan Saini, a wholesale dealer of mangoes at Mohana Mandi. Traders said that Dusseri variety of mangoes from Malihabad, Rampur and Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh and some parts of Gujarat are still coming in. “Rains spoil the mangoes and their taste. Since there has been lesser rainfall in Uttar Pradesh and some parts of Gujarat, good quality mangoes are still coming. According to our dealers in these states, till August 10, mangoes will continue to arrive in Rajasthan,” said Mukesh Santani, another wholesale mango dealer at Sodala Market. Also, price of mangoes this year so far has been cheaper. “At wholesale, we are getting the Dusseri variety in Rs 30 to Rs 40 per kg, which is being sold at Rs 50 to Rs 60 per kg. Also, a good-sized Langra is available in Rs 25 to Rs 35 per kg at wholesale, which is being sold at Rs 45 to Rs 55 per kg in the retail market,” said Kishan Lal, a wholesale dealer of mangoes at Jhotwara. Traders are now waiting for the big-sized variety – Fazali. “One piece of this variety weighs around 450 gram to 500 gram and for 1kg, the customer gets two pieces. It is very sweet and full of pulp. It will start coming in another three days to our markets,” said a trader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/weak-monsoon-boon-for-mango-lovers/articleshow/77208630.cms||Ashish Mehta
July 28, 2020||Chennai||Unlocking a future for a 200-yr-old industry||At this time when businesses are bolted shut for months, the lock industry in Dindigul has remained unaffected by the Covid-induced lockdown as it works with a minimal skilled workforce. When the Dindigul lock, famous for its durability and difficult to duplicate key, got the GI tag last August, it was an effort to save the old craft from the more mechanised versions available in the market. But with the dwindling number of locksmiths, the Dindigul, Lock, Hardware and Steel Furniture Workers Co-operative Society has been trying to train fresh students passing out of IndustrialTraining Institutes. Secretary of the society L S Kavitha, said while the steel furniture workers got orders for making cots to manage the Covid-19 crisis, the demand for Dindigul locks has been the same. "There are just 46 of these skilled lockmakers and most of them have become aged. So we are trying to train students so that the skill is not forgotten,’’ she said. A skill passed on for generations, the nearly 200-year-old lock industry is synonymous to protection. "Even now, the lockers and safety vaults in government offices such as the PWD, H R & C E and prisons departments have the mango locks, so named due to their shape, and we get regular orders from these departments,’’ said Kavitha. The mango locks, made of iron with six levers and the brass seven-levered sentinel locks are the most in demand now.Molded and shaped by hand, the locksmiths are proud of their secret protective mechanism. "Our locks are heavy, weighing about 1.5kg, and ranges from `3,000 to `4,500, but are worth every penny,’’ said C Murugesan, with 32 years of experience in lockmaking. Murugesan is happy to train a group of younger men in this trade now. One among them is D Anand from Chinnalapatti. "I took up mechanical subjects in ITI, because it is a field that is close to my heart, and I am happy to get to carry on the legacy of this industry,’’ he said, adding that he was fascinated by the mechanics of the lock being made from scratch by hand. "Imagine the master lock has one key that controls 25 locks, and cannot be opened with other keys," he said. S Jeyakumar, a diplomaholder in electrical and electronics, feels strongly about pr serving this traditional knowledge. "I think youngsters like me should come forward to protect the traditional aspects of our native place. I always wanted to get into lock making, taking after my uncle, so I grabbed this opportunity,’’ he said.Earlier, there were more than 50 varieties of locks, including door, trick and bell locks. Safety lockers had a series of keys which had to be inserted in a particular order. The kolaikaran pootu, (burglar lock) was so designed that a knife would come out if the wrong key was inserted.Murugesan said they can still make the locks of different kinds if they get orders. "If the keys of these locks are lost it can only be broken open with a lot of effort and the keys can never be duplicated.’’ Something that rings true for the industry as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/unlocking-a-future-for-a-200-yr-old-industry/articleshow/77209428.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Chennai||TN political parties hail OBC verdict in unison||Chennai: Glued together by their demand for OBC reservation in All India Quota medical seats, top political parties in Tamil Nadu hailed the Monday’s Madras high court ruling that there is no legal bar to provide AIQ seats in non-central institutions to OBC students. They urged the Centre to set up the committee immediately, and not resort to appeal against the order.While chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswamy welcomed the ‘historic judgment’ saying it was due to the efforts of the government, DMK president M K Stalin said the verdict was a battle cry for social justice, and that it has to be inscribed in golden letters in the annals of reservation history. “I welcome the historic judgment delivered today for the admission of OBC students in medical admission due to the legal efforts taken by Amma’s government,” Palaniswami said. In a joint statement, Palaniswami and his deputy O Paneerselvam said it was a gift for the AIADMK’s social justice principles.Stalin, in his statement, said: “Tamil Nadu is the land of social justice, curated by Dravidianism. Accepting this, the Centre should not wait for the three-month deadline and instead appoint the committee without further delay.” He went on to say, “A mere 24 hours is more than enough for the BJP to rectify the four-year injustice. It should not be an issue to implement, especially when our Prime Minister himself is from the backward classes.”A meeting of alliance parties, convened by the DMK, said the judgment once again showed that Tamil Nadu would be at the forefront in implementing social justice. “The Centre must immediately set up a committee as mentioned in the judgment within three months and see that the reservation for backward and other backward classes, SCs and STs is implemented in the present academic year,” said a resolution. The meeting wanted the Centre to provide 50% reservation for OBCs, 18% for SCs and 1% for STs under AIQ medical seats in non-central medical institutions.PMK leader S Ramadoss said the Centre should not indulge in wrong approach by appealing against the order. AMMK general secretary T T V Dhinakaran urged the Centre to act without any delay.In his statement, Stalin said: "Through its verdict, Madras high court has rejected the argument of the Medical Council of India that only the Supreme Court could decide on reservations. The verdict has made it clear that there is no legal bar for implementing reservations in medical education and one cannot deny reservation to OBCs by citing merit as a factor. This has put to an end the injustice meted out to the OBC students for four years by the Medical Council and the BJP government by citing reasons that did not exist.” President of BJP’s Tamil Nadu unit L Murugan also welcomed the order and claimed that the court has issued the order based on the affidavit submitted by it to Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-political-parties-hail-obc-verdict-in-unison/articleshow/77209433.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara jail in Covid-19 grip, 43 more test positive||Vadodara: The Covid-19 situation in Vadodara Central Jail worsened on Monday with 43 more inamtes testing positive, taking the total number of those infected to 61. On Saturday night, 18 inmates had tested positive, following which their 138 contacts were traced and quarantined. Of these, 43 tested positive. Jail officials said that these inmates are asymptomatic and their samples were collected on Sunday as they shared barracks with the 18 infected. The administration has now decided to start a health centre within the jail premises. The 80-bed hospital will be ready by this weekend. Last month too, two inmates had tested positive. One of the inmates, who was admitted to a hospital in Ahmedabad for surgery, had tested positive and another inmate who was in contact with him had contracted the virus. Officer on special duty for Covid-19, Vinod Rao, visited the jail with other officials to take stock of the situation. Rao said that the jail also had a staff of six doctors including a surgeon and a physician attached full-time to the hospital. SSG Hospital which is presently being used as the facility for serious ailments as well as Covid-19 among prisoners will handhold the facility at the jail. Rao and others also visited the SSG Hospital to check the progress on work there for upgrading it to a facility to treat 500 Covid-19 patients. Jail officials said that they had been taking precautions even before the first case was registered in Vadodara. Initially, a cap on the number of visitors was placed and the time of meeting was also reduced. Later, as cases started increasing, every new prisoner is now being kept in isolation for two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-jail-in-covid-19-grip-43-more-test-positive/articleshow/77204958.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Man held for 2BHK fraud||Hyderabad: The chairman of a Telugu news channel was arrested by SOT, Madhapur and KPHB police for promising mediapersons 2BHK houses from the state government’s flagship 2BHK housing scheme and duping them of up to Rs 1.7 lakh. According to Cyberabad commissioner V C Sajjanar, the accused, G Prashanth (28), forged allotment orders to dupe the journalists. “He collected Rs 1.55 lakh to Rs 1.7 lakh from each victim,” he said. The accused was arrested from his house in KPHB Colony. Police seized a Mahindra XUV, Rs 8 lakh and other evidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-held-for-2bhk-fraud/articleshow/77207880.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Water level plummets in dams||JAIPUR: Water level of dams has been continuously depleting because of the absence of good rainfall in the catchment areas of reservoirs. Though Bisalpur Dam, Jawai Dam and a few other reservoirs has seen a slight elevation in their water levels, most dams badly need a good spell of rains to improve its stocks. Rana Pratap Sagar in Chittorgarh had received good rains initially which has pushed its water volume to 2,094.450 cusec metre against its full capacity of 2905.230 cusec metre. “Now it has depleted and currently has 2087.777 cusec metre, which is 71.86% of full capacity. Even after two spells of rains, it still needs some more bouts of shower,” said a dam engineer on Monday. Bisalpur Dam that caters to the drinking water and irrigation needs of Tonk, Ajmer and Jaipur was merely 5.93% filled last year prior to the onset of monsoon before reaching almost full capacity. Currently, it has 53.79% filled. “It had 56% prior to monsoon. Water level is continuously depleting and only a good spell of rains lasting three to four days is needed to push up its water level,” an officer said. Other dams including Mahi (Banswara), Kota Barrage and Jawahar Sagar are yet to see elevation in its water levels because of two poor spells of monsoon. “Hadauti region usually gets good monsoon. This is the reason why dams in Kota are in better position compared to rest of the districts. However, this year even Kota division known for torrential rainfall is yet to see a good spell. The district having two dams — Jawahar Sagar and Kota Barrage — have water level above 80 per cent currently,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/water-level-plummets-in-dams/articleshow/77208623.cms||Ashish Mehta
July 28, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur city adds 144 patients||KOLHAPUR: Solapur city has recorded 144 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday, including 67 men and 77 women, taking the total number of cases to 4,707. In the last two days, the city has recorded over 300 cases. The death toll rose to 348 after three deaths due to Covid-19 were reported on Monday. Of the total casualties, 228 are men and 120 women. As many as 18 patients, including 10 men and eight women, have been discharged on Monday. The city has 1,500 active cases, including 876 men and 624 women. According to the official statement, new cases were reported in 77 areas of the city like Avanit Nagar, Hatture Vasti, Mashal Vasti, Bhavani peth, Rajswa Nagar and Revan Siddheshwar Nagar among others. Prabhag seven has the highest number of cases with 286 patients, followed by 14, with 272 cases. Prabhag 11 has recorded the lowest number of cases, with 78 patients so far. The civic administration has sealed 22 localities after new cases were reported. The deceased include two men above the age of 70 years, residents of Siddheshwar Peth and Railway lines area, and a 50-year-old man from Mergu Tower.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-city-adds-144-patients/articleshow/77204935.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Kolhapur||Teams deployed to disinfect 3 new hotspots in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: Vare Vasahat in Timber Market, Jawahar Nagar and Tarabai Park have emerged as the three new Covid hotspots collectively making up for around 175 positive cases in Kolhapur city where the Covid-19 tally has already crossed the 900-mark. In the city, Rajarampuri area has the maximum cases (61), followed by Timber Market (56) and Jawahar Nagar (39), both of which are prominent slum areas where the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) believes that the rate of the contagion spread is higher. The infection spread has been contained in Rajarampuri and Kasba Bawda, which was once a major hotspot with 37 cases. While the infection spread has been arrested in the rest of the localities, there has been a rise in the number of cases emerging from the Old City and the suburbs. Currently, 43 localities fall under active containment zones. The civic body has deployed additional teams to disinfect the three new hotspots and identify the paitents with high fever. Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti said, “The index patients of the contacts traced have a history of attending marriage functions, cremation and birthday celebrations. Some establishments, such as gyms, are operating with their shutters down. We have fined owners of two gyms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/teams-deployed-to-disinfect-3-new-hotspots-in-kolhapur/articleshow/77204925.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Goa||Goa: Rift between trader groups to fore as Margao’s new municipal market opens||MARGAO: Spurning the request of the New Municipal Traders’ Association president, Vinod Shirodkar, to extend the seven-day closure of the market by another week, traders re-opened their shops on Monday. There were some anxious moments at the new municipal market Monday morning as a large number of traders marched to the Margao Municipal Council (MMC) demanding that the market gates be opened. Sensing the mood of the protesting traders, MMC chairperson Pooja Naik issued directions for the opening of the gates, following which peace was restored in the market, as well as trade. Traders had voluntarily opted for a week-long closure of the market at the end of the three-day state-wide lockdown last week. Trouble began on Sunday, when Shirodkar announced via video message, that the closure would be extended by another week as a cautionary measure considering the rise in Covid cases in Margao. The message went viral on social media. Already reeling under low business volumes owing to the pandemic, most traders protested Shirodkar’s “unilateral” move, and decided to defy his diktat. Under the leadership of Devidas Borkar of Vyapari Sanghatana, a large number of them gathered at the Pimplapedd, Sunday evening, and unanimously decided to reopen the market on Monday. “As we had voluntarily closed down the market last week, we will voluntarily open it on Monday,” Borkar had announced. He told reporters after the meeting that the market will reopen with the one lane open-other lane closed arrangement that is already in place, and with compliance of all precautionary measures. On Monday morning, a delegation of the traders met Naik and explained to her about their decision. Sensing their mood, Naik directed that the gates be unlocked. While the market reopened, the issue has also served as a challenge to Shirodkar’s dominance over the new municipal market. Rival groups led by Shirodkar and Borkar have been at loggerheads over various issues concerning the market. While Borkar has accused Shirodkar of breaching the association’s bylaws and not conducting elections for a new committee for a long time, the latter has maintained that the irregularity was “unintentional.” “Shirodkar’s dominion over the market has ended. Hardly a few traders now owe allegiance to him,” Borkar said. Shirodkar, on the other hand, dismissed “all the drama” calling it a two-day show. “My call for a further extension of the market shutdown was borne out of the welfare of the traders. I only wish them well,” Shirodkar said, putting up a brave front. The Gandhi market, meanwhile, remained closed on Monday and will remain shut for a few more days as a trader tested positive, it was informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rift-between-trader-groups-to-fore-as-margaos-new-municipal-mkt-opens/articleshow/77208633.cms||---
July 28, 2020||India||After Israel, France to give India ventilators||NEW DELHI: France donated 50 Osiris-3 ventilators and 70 Yuwell 830 ventilators with BiPAP mode to India, as coronavirus infections in India continue to surge. The French donation was announced even as Israel brought in 50 mechanical ventilators as well as starting a new initiative to work together to build Covid testing systems. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week, Emmanuel Macron, French President announced the donation of medical equipment from France to India as well as technical expertise. “When France was going through a critical phase of this public health crisis earlier this spring, India was by our side. It played a very important role with regard to medicines.” A statement from the French embassy said, “Osiris ventilators are particularly useful for emergency transport, intra-hospital transfer and recovery; they have different ventilation modes, including non-invasive ventilation. The Yuwell 830 ventilators have bilevel positive airway pressure (BiPAP) – a non-invasive technique to supply oxygen to the lungs without intubation. These high-quality ventilators meet the needs of Indian hospitals.” In a statement, the Israel embassy said, “In the early hours of this morning, a special flight from Tel Aviv landed in New Delhi carrying a high ranking MOD R&D team which has been working with India’s chief scientist and DRDO to develop rapid testing for COVID-19 in under 30 seconds.” This is part of an unprecedented anti-COVID-19 cooperative operation between India and Israel, spearheaded by Israel’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA), India’s Ministry of Defence (MOD) and the Ministry of Health. The embassy said that by merging Israeli technology with Indian development and production capabilities, the two countries aim to allow a swift resumption of normal life alongside the virus. Ron Malka, Israeli ambassador said on Twitter, “I am very happy to return to India at the head of this important MOD delegation which is here to work with India on rapid COVID-19 testing, and on a plane loaded with advanced Israeli technologies for COVID-19 relief chosen by the MFA, MOD and Ministry of Health, and ventilators for COVID-19 treatment granted with special authorization by the Israel government. India and Israel are working together to find solutions for this global pandemic and will share our successful outcomes with the world.” France will also donate 50,000 high-quality serological IgG/IgM test kits and 50,000 nose and throat swabs and modes of medical transport. “An expert mission on inter-hospital transfers by military means is also being dispatched. France acquired expertise in this matter during the crisis as it had to organize many transfers between hospitals.” The embassy spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-israel-france-to-give-india-ventilators/articleshow/77210303.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Kolhapur||Cities grapple with rising Covid-19 cases, Solapur has maximum cases in W Maha||KOLHAPUR: Three municipal corporations in western Maharashtra – Kolhapur, Solapur and Sangli-Miraj-Kupwad – are reporting an increasing number of Covid-19 cases. Solapur city has registered the highest number of deaths in the region. Though Satara district does not have a single municipal corporation, data shows that positive cases are rising in urban pockets of Satara and Karad towns. On Sunday, Kolhapur municipal corporation had 959 positive cases, while rural parts had 2,406 patients. Significantly, other urban pockets in Kolhapur have also shown the same trend. City had recorded seven deaths till July 20, while their number went up to 18 on July 25. Rural and areas of municipal councils registered 46 and 51 deaths, respectively. In neighboring district, Sangli-Miraj-Kupwad municipal corporation has just five patients lesser than the rural areas. Patients from rural areas are coming from Shirala and Jat tehsils. Sangli-Miraj-Kupwad municipal corporation had 757 positive cases on Sunday as against 762 patients in rural areas. The patients in six municipal councils had 124 positive cases till Sunday. Shirala and Jat tehsils had 178 and 115 positive cases. Aatpadi tehsil had 112 positive cases till Sunday night. Solapur municipal corporation had 4,563 positive cases, while the rural areas had 2,820 patients till Sunday night. Official data released by the municipal corporation suggest patients are reported from all parts of the city. Solapur city has been recording more than 100 patients every day. Six municipal councils in Solapur district have also been gradually recording increasing number of patients. Akkalkot, Pandharpur and Barshi are considered the worst-affected areas in the district. Solapur rural has recorded 75 deaths as against 345 in Solapur city alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/cities-grapple-with-rising-covid-19-cases-solapur-has-maximum-cases-in-w-maha/articleshow/77204960.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Nagpur||4 Covid deaths and 42 new cases in Amravati in a day||Amravati: Four Covid deaths and a spike of 42 cases have taken the district’s death toll to 53 and patient count to 1,771 on Monday. A report from civil surgeon’s office said three females and a male died at Covid Hospital during treatment today. The report said a 52-year-old woman from Sindhunagar, who had tested positive on July 22, died on Monday morning, while a 56-year-old woman from Sufiyannagar, a 60-year-old woman from Badnera and a 65-year-old male from New City, Badnera, died in the afternoon. Of the 53 deaths so far, as many as 29 have come in 27 days of July. A record 98 patients also got discharge today that took the number of recovered patients to 1,240, leaving 478 under treatment, including 15 in Nagpur. With 18 of the 42 Covid areas coming from rural belt, the rural count reached 338-mark. Village Mahuli Jehangir , which had reported two cases earlier, today gave 11 new patients, while Daryapur and Nerpingalai reported two cases each. A case each came from.Nandgaon Khandeshwar, Warud and Chandur Bazar. In city, Gopalnagar reported two cases to take its count to 14 while Badnera tòo contributed two patients to take its count to 157. Ashoknagar, Masanganj and Kanwarnagar had a case each that took their count to 39, 40 and 29, respectively while a female aged 75 took Rampuri Camp’s count to 13. Rajapeth today reported its eighth case, while Habibnagar, Krushnanagar and Sabanpura their 23rd, 13th and 20th Covid case, respectively. Gulistanagar and Surajnagar posted their fifth case each while Chaprasipura and Mangilal Plot their third. Both Bajrangnagar and Old Cotton Market localities reported their second case. New Ambedkarnagar, Manisha Colony, Hariomnagar, Saboo Layout, Paach Bungle near Guldhe Colony and Mhada Colony in Vilasnagar reported their first case today.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/4-covid-deaths-and-42-new-cases-in-amravati-in-a-day/articleshow/77207916.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Daughters of incarcerated men turn Corona warriors||CHENNAI: Three daughters of incarcerated parents after completing one-year diploma as health assistants, joined duty at the Corona isolation ward of Ahana Hospitals in Madurai on Monday. While their fathers face life term for murder in the Madurai central prison, the daughters bring in hope through their choices. Though the three women completed their diploma, they couldn’t write the exam due to the pandemic. “My friend joined duty today morning, I will join the evening shift. I just came home to see my mother, two brothers and a sister. I am happy that I got an opportunity to serve society at a time like this,” said Kavya M*. Deepa S*, a native of Sivagangai, who joined duty on Monday, sent her family a photograph of herself wearing a PPE kit at the hospital. K Mathi*, of Theni, will join duty with Kavya. After completing their diploma course at MS Chellamuthu Institute of mental health and rehabilitation centre in Madurai, the three were helping in the psychiatric rehabilitation centre of the institute. “Since Covid cases are on the rise, we were asked to help the main team. We got all the necessary PPE kits, health insurance and health screening as per government guidelines ,” said Kavya. The violent past of their parents or the absence of their father has not deterred these girls from making a mark for themselves. “My father killed a drunkard after a scuffle with him. He is serving a life term in the Madurai central prison now. I don’t know whether he is aware of my new role. I am not able to visit him because of the pandemic restrictions in the jail,” said K Mathi. It was during the time when the trio were studying for XII that psychiatric counselor K R Raja got to know about their ambition to pursue higher studies. “I was looking after the studies of children of incarcerated parents in and around Tirunelveli. When I moved to Madurai a year ago, I found these three girls who were struggling to pursue their higher studies. We advised them to go for the diploma course which they did,” said Raja, co-founder of Global Network for Equality (GNE), an NGO based in Tirunelveli. Fortunately, Raja managed to get the three students a scholarship and fee concession at the institute. “The children can’t be stigmatized anymore as prisoner’s children. They are going to redefine themselves by doing good for others,” he said. (*Names changed)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/daughters-of-incarcerated-men-turn-corona-warriors/articleshow/77209438.cms||M T Saju
July 28, 2020||Nashik||302 deaths in first 2 days of admission||NASHIK: The district administration, after analysing the data of Covid-19 patients, has noted that a total of 302 patients admitted to various Covid facilities across Nashik died within the first two days of their admission. “It is a large number of deaths and most of these cases were from urban areas of Nashik and Malegaon cities,” a senior official said. So far, a total of 457 deaths have been reported across the district due to Covid-19 of which nine were brought dead to the hospitals and their throat swab samples later tested positive for the contagion. A total of 184 patients died within hours of admission (less than 24 hours) and 118 other patients died on the second day their admission. The data also reveal that 89 patients died on or after fourth day of their admission. “This explains the need for the people to take the infection seriously and report to the nearest medical facility if they are facing any kind of symptoms — breathlessness, fever, cough, cold. The earlier we start the treatment the better is the health of the patient,” an official from the civil hospital said. Further analysis of the day pointed out that of the 457 deaths, 309 were comorbid, including 121 diabetic patients. A total of 212 patients who have succumbed to the disease have also been identified in the age group of 60 and above. The death rate in the 60 and above category is 15% as against 5% in the age group of 41 to 60 years and less than 1% in the age group of 26 to 40 years. “No death has been reported in 0 to 12 age group in the district wherein 1,016 children have tested positive for the infection, the officials added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/302-deaths-in-first-2-days-of-admission/articleshow/77204967.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 28, 2020||Hyderabad||2 beggars found dead on roadside||Hyderabad: In separate incidents, two beggars have been found dead on the streets at Dilsukhnagar since Saturday. Alerted by an RTC employee, Malakpet police went to Nalgonda bus stop on Monday morning and shifted the body of a 50-year-old beggar to OGH for postmortem. Earlier on Sunday evening, police were alerted by a fruit vendor about another 50-year-old beggar lying dead on the footpath near MRR bar at Dilsukhnagar. His body was also taken for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-beggars-found-dead-on-roadside/articleshow/77207855.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Goa||‘Infra policy to simplify setting up of cell towers’||Panaji: The state government plans to come out with the Goa Infrastructure Policy to simplify the process for installation of mobile towers and thus improve mobile network in the state, said minister for information and technology Jennifer Monserrate. The minister said that the information technology department has received a draft policy from the Tower and Infrastructure Providers’ Association (TAIPA) which is being evaluated by various stakeholders. “The government is finalising the Goa Infrastructure Policy 2020, in which the process of installation of mobile towers and right of way permissions shall be simplified, thereby increasing mobile coverage,” said Monserrate in a written reply before the state legislative assembly. Monserrate admitted that there has been a higher dependency on digital tools due to the prevailing conditions of the Covid-19 pandemic. She said that the draft policy shared by TAIPA was circulated among various departments including PWD, directorate of municipal administration, forest department, Goa State Pollution Control Board, department of panchayats, power and department of science and technology for their inputs. “The policy was also discussed under the chairmanship of the chief minister, and various telecom providers such as BSNL, Reliance Jio, Indus Towers Ltd, local internet service providers such as DNA, DTPL, UTL, etc, and their inputs have been taken,” said Monserrate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/infra-policy-to-simplify-setting-up-of-cell-towers/articleshow/77208638.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Goa||One more +ve case in Candolim||Calangute: One more Covid-19 positive case was reported in Orda, Candolim after results came in on Monday of 36 persons who had given their their swabs were drawn last weekend. The remaining 35 persons have tested negative, said Dr Roshan Nazareth, medical officer of Candolim primary health centre (PHC). A senior citizen from Orda had tested positive around 10 days ago, after which 22 of his close contacts were tested. The results of his wife, domestic help and her husband were positive. “Later, 36 more persons had been tested, and a person who had been in contact with the maid’s husband also tested positive. We have been home quarantining close contacts of the positive persons till their test results come,” Nazareth said, adding that they are closely monitoring the situation. The area had been sealed last weekend after the detection Covid the positive cases. Although there have been isolated positive cases in the Calangute-Candolim area, most of them with travel history, there has been no community spread because of prompt measures, Nazareth said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/one-more-ve-case-in-candolim/articleshow/77208637.cms||Joseph Zuzarte
July 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Guntur readies app on bed availability||GUNTUR: In order to bring transparency in the management of Covid-19 hospitals, the district administration has readied a mobile application to make information related to availability of beds available in the public domain. Although, positive cases would be allotted hospitals by the nodal officers, headed by the district medical and health officer (DMHO), the district administration has decided to make the data about bed-availability accessible on real-time basis to allow people to see that there is no irregularity. It is of the view that people are often insisting upon hospital admission without real need and some times beds at Covid-19 Care Centres are not available. “We will post data on bed-availability on a real-time basis on the mobile application to keep people informed. It will dispel apprehensions about beds being blocked,” said a senior official. DMHO Ramesh said every positive patient who requires a bed would be provided one in the nearest hospital. He said no one would be denied treatment and hospitalisation based on triage assessment. The positive cases in the district have already crossed the 10,000-mark, with each day reporting nearly 600-800 cases over the past 20 days. The positivity rate in the district has been more than 25% in the last 15 days, as half of the total cases were reported only in the last fortnight. Meanwhile, the district administration has decided to convert the Narasaraopet Area Hospital into a Covid-19 hospital keeping in view the rising positive cases in the area. It is being readied on a war footing to turn it into a 200-bed hospital. The district administration has also decided to set up a Covid-19 screening centre in a private hospital in the town. The local GBR hospital will act as the triage centre for the locals where doctors will analyse who needs to be hospitalised. The positive patients with no or mild symptoms would be asked to confine themselves at home. Joint collector Dinesh Kumar said a Covid-19 screening centre each would shortly come up in Vinukonda and Narasaraopet towns. He advised people not to panic as 85% of all patients are recovering with home isolation. He asked locals not to rush to the Government General Hospital (GGH), Guntur, for Covid-19 screening and medical aid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/guntur-readies-app-on-bed-availability/articleshow/77206343.cms||Samdani MN
July 28, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Government to gift Rs 500 crore projects to Ayodhya||LUCKNOW: While all eyes will be on Prime Minister Narendra Modi who will attend the ‘bhoomi pujan’ for the construction of much-awaited Ram Temple in Ayodhya on August 5, the state government will roll out development projects worth nearly Rs 500 crore for the temple town the same day. Foundation stones of projects worth Rs 326 crore will be laid on the occasion while other works worth Rs 161 crore will be dedicated to the people. The projects whose foundation stone will be laid down include four-laning of 36.7km of National Highway-30 between Azamgarh and Bahraich via Ayodhya at an estimated cost of over Rs 252 crore. The government will also flag off the third phase of the water supply project in Ayodhya which is worth over Rs 54 crore and will be executed by the urban development department. Foundation stone of modernisation work of Tulsi Smarak Bhawan under Ayodhya Shodh Sansthan worth Rs 16.8 crore will also be laid on the occasion. The project is proposed to be taken up by culture department. Tourism department will kick off expansion work of Ram Katha Park at the cost of Rs 2.7 crore. The project will be executed by Rajkiya Nirman Nigam (RNN). Situated on the banks of Saryu river near Naya Ghat, Ram Katha park is the place where Ramayan Mela and other cultural programmes are organised. Among projects which are to be dedicated to the people include a lecture hall, an administrative building, a library, an academic block and boys/girls hostel at Rajshri Dashrath State Medical Degree College at a total cost of Rs 134 crore. Besides, a plastic surgery and a burn unit in divisional hospital in Darshannagar will come up at a cost of Rs 2.3 crore. Laxman Qila Ghat under Ramayan circuit, which has been constructed at a cost of over Rs 10 crore by tourism department, will also be dedicated to the people. The temple town will also get a new bus station. Constructed by the transport department at an estimated cost of over Rs 7 crore, the project will ensure better facilities to pilgrims. A police barrack, having a capacity of 200 people, will also come up at a cost of around Rs 7 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-to-gift-rs-500cr-projects-to-ayodhya/articleshow/77208639.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Officials clear encroached land hours after TOI report||HYDERABAD: After TOI reported about residents of Manikonda protesting against squatters encroaching the lung spaces of the city, officials of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) swung into action to save public spaces. On Monday, officials razed the illegal constructions in Manikonda and inspected the land. They have decided to serve notices to land grabbers. “Probe has begun. We will first examine the complete layout and serve notice to those who flouted rules. We are in the process of preparing the notices. As per norms, we will revoke permission if it is needed. People will be given time to reply. After this process, we would initiate action,” said N Sudhamsh, the GHMC deputy commissioner at Serilingampally. After illegal constructions were demolished at Tirumala Hills, residents of the area met director of municipal administration N Satyanarayana on Monday and discussed the pending works. “We gave representation to N Satyanarayana about the pending tasks. We also attached the story published in TOI and mentioned the illegal balconies of a building,” said a member of Tirumala Hills owners welfare association. On Monday, officials inspected Tirumala Hills and razed a compound wall encroaching the government land. Meanwhile, residents of Rajendra Reddy Nagar Colony (RRNC), Chandanagar urged the authorities to protect the lands in their locality. “I thank TOI for bringing the park encroachment to the notice of authorities. We request authorities to protect the buffer zone and FTL area of Bakshi Kunta lake measuring around one acre,” said Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/officials-clear-encroached-land-hours-after-toi-report/articleshow/77207923.cms||Nabinder Bommala
July 28, 2020||Nashik||Fox rescued from well in Niphad||NASHIK: A two-and-a-half-year-old fox was rescued from a well in Kherwadi village of Niphad talkua by the forest department on Monday. According to a forest official, the fox may have slipped into the well. “After we were informed about the animal in the well, a team was immediately sent to the spot to carry out the rescue,” he said. “The animal was rescued from the well using a plastic crate. Later, it was caught with the help of a net and released immediately. This is not the first time a fox has fallen into a well. Around five cases of foxes falling into the well have been reported in the past two years,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fox-rescued-from-well-in-niphad/articleshow/77204984.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad cops fume as senior officers stop increment for want of MSCIT||AURANGABAD: An internal communication issued by the assistant commissioner (administration) of Aurangabad city police ordering to put the annual increment of 156 policemen on hold for failing to submit MSCIT has not gone down well with policemen, especially those at the grass root level. MSCIT (Maharashtra State Certificate on Information Technology) is a literacy course on information technology that was started in 2001. The state government made it mandatory for all departments, including policemen, to ensure computer literacy among government employees. Going a step ahead, to ensure that all policemen, especially the constabulary, complete this mandatory certification course, senior police officers have linked it to their annual increment. Those failing to submit their MSCIT by the end of June are not given their annual increment, which usually comes with July’s salary every year. Policemen, whose increments have been stopped, unanimously said that they could not complete their course in the last five months as they were allotted bandobast duties following the outbreak of Covid-19. “Even the senior officers are aware that we were doing the course when the pandemic struck. Still, such an unjust order has been issued.” In contrast, some of the police units in different parts of the state, including Nagpur commissioner of police, Auranagabad rural police and Hingoli district police took a rationale view and voluntarily exempted the policemen from submitting the MSCIT for getting annual increment. Deputy commissioner of police (headquarter) Meena Makwana, who also heads the administration of the Aurangabad police commissionorate, said, “As per rule, the increment cannot be given without giving the MSCIT. These people (whose increment has been held) are in service from the last 10 to 15 years. They had sufficient time in hand to pass the exam.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-cops-fume-as-senior-officers-stop-increment-for-want-of-mscit/articleshow/77204988.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Sharpest spike for 2nd day in Pb, 12 more die||Chandigarh: Punjab broke yet another record in the number of Covid-19 cases in a day on Monday as 557 people were confirmed to be infected in the state, with 12 of them succumbing to the virus. This is the second consecutive day when the state has reported record new cases. On Sunday, it recorded 534 new cases and 15 deaths. With the new cases, the total number of cases in the state has risen to 13,769 and number of deaths to 318. In the past three days, 36 people have died of Covid-19 in the state. Among the new cases, 33 are police personnel. The worst is not yet over when it comes to fatalities as 113 patients in the state were on oxygen support on Monday evening and another 14 were stated to be in a critical condition and on ventilator support. Also, 254 patients were discharged after they recovered from the virus, taking the number of patients discharged in the stateso far to 9,064. Entries of two patients, who had come from other states to Punjab for treatment, and four duplicate entries recorded in the tally on July 26 were also removed. Ludhiana got the highest number of new cases, 176, of which 18 were of police personnel and eight of jail inmates. Also, while 35 new patients are contacts of positive cases, another 33 have been coinfected with influenza like illness (ILI). In 14 cases, the health department could not trace transmission history. Jalandhar recorded the second highest number of cases, 54, of which 18 were contacts of positive cases while 36 were new cases. Also, 53 people were found infected in Gurdaspur, 46 in Amritsar, 40 in Patiala, 31 in Mohali, 19 each in Tarn Taran and Hoshiarpur, 18 in Moga, 17 each in Sangrur and Barnala, 12 each in Pathankot and Fatehgarh Sahib, nine in Bathinda, eight each in Muktsar and Mansa, five in Ropar, and two each in Faridkot and Nawanshahr.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sharpest-spike-for-2nd-day-in-pb-12-more-die/articleshow/77207926.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana gets 795 Covid cases, death toll near 400||Chandigarh: Haryana reported 795 fresh cases of Covid-19 and five deaths due to the virus on Monday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 32,127 and the casualty count to 397. While three patients died in Faridabad, a death each was reported from Ambala and Nuh. On Monday, Faridabad recorded the highest number of cases, 218, and it was followed by Gurgaon, which got 108 new cases. Rewari, Karnal, Ambala and Sonipat districts got 91, 81, 80 and 50 cases, respectively. Among other districts, 35 cases were reported in Hisar, 11 in Bhiwani, 22 in Jhajjar, 16 in Mahendergarh, 12 in Panipat, 11 in Nuh, 19 in Kurukshetra, 31 in Sirsa, six in Panchkula, and two each in Kaithal and Charkhi Dadri. In all, while 21,290 confirmed cases are of boys and men, 10,834 are of women and girls, and three are of transgenders. At the moment, 6,684 cases are active in the state, and 25,046 patients have been discharged on recovery. The doubling rate has been recorded to be 23 days. Till Monday, a total of 5,59,326 persons in the state had been tested. Around 52,609 persons in the state are under surveillance. Also, 132 patients in the state are on oxygen support and 24 are on ventilator. Gurgaon has so far recorded the highest number of cases, 8,720. It is followed by Faridabad, which has reported 7,911 cases, and Sonipat, which has reported 2,792 cases. Though the state government’s Covid-19 bulletin said there were no new cases in Yamunanagar, a district official said 37 people tested positive and they included police officials, a doctor and bank officials. Of these cases, 23 were contacts of positive patients and others were detected during testing, said Yamunanagar civil surgeon Dr Vijay Dahiya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-gets-795-covid-cases-death-toll-near-400/articleshow/77207930.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Goa||Faleiro urges for virtual assembly||Porvorim: Pointing out thatstudents study online, Navelim MLA Luizinho Faleiro urged the government to hold a virtual assembly session to discuss various issues, including passing of a revised budget after due discussion and debate. Referring to Rule 290 of Procedure and Conduct of Business of Goa legislative assembly, Faleiro said that this is pandemic time and “we have to think out of the box” and consider conducting the assembly virtually. “Even primary and college students are studying online, then why can we not hold a virtual assembly? We are going to approve a Rs 22,000 crore budget, let us not do it at one without any debate and discussion,” he said, urging for an online debate. The Navelim MLA said that he had written to the speaker but has not got any reply from his office. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/faleiro-urges-for-virtual-assembly/articleshow/77208640.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Meerut||Donating money to poor not a substitute for animal sacrifice, says Darul Uloom, Deoband||MEERUT: Leading Sunni Islamic seminary Darul Uloom, Deoband has come out with what it said is “much needed clarity” on animal sacrifice, saying it is an integral part of Eid-ul-Adha prayers and donating the cost of the animal to the poor is not a way out. It comes a day after one of the leading Islamic seminaries in South India, Hyderabad’s Jamia Nizamia, issued a fatwa advising Muslims to donate money to the poor if they cannot sacrifice animal on Eid-ul-Adha or Bakra-Eid, which is likely to be celebrated on July 31. Interestingly, the fatwa (edict) was issued by Darul Uloom, Deoband in reply to a query posted by the officiating vice-chancellor of the university, Abdul Khaliq Madrasi. The fatwa says that any Muslim devotee who does not offer an animal for sacrifice will be responsible for “abandoning” the holy ritual on the occasion. According to spokesperson of Darul, Ashraf Usmani, “This clarity was much needed. A few ‘less knowledgeable’ people were trying to spread the message that sacrifice was not important and donating the cost of a sacrificial animal to the needy was enough. But Islam does not give any alternative to the sacrifice and is the integral part of holy prayers on Eid. This is very similar to the fact that Haj cannot be replaced by offering prayers at home. Both have their own importance and similarly sacrifice is an important ritual in Islam.” It comes days after the seminary, which is in UP’s Deoband town of Saharanpur district, appealed to the UP government to allow community prayers on the occasion of Bakra-Eid. According to Darul spokesperson Usmani, the seminary has appealed to the state government to shift the weekend lockdown to Tuesday and Wednesday in order to let people celebrate Bakra-Eid. The five-point petition of Darul had also said that the sale of sacrificial goats should be allowed since shops and malls have also been allowed to open. According to senior government officials, while the ban on prayers at religious places will stay, there is no prohibition on the animal sacrifice though. Usmani further said, “We had requested the state government to allow us to offer sacrifice. We have been told to follow social distancing norms and cleanliness.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/donating-money-to-poor-not-a-substitute-for-animal-sacrifice-says-darul-uloom-deoband/articleshow/77204986.cms||Sandeep Rai
July 28, 2020||Goa||Phase-1 of vaccine trial ends today||Panaji: Twelve volunteers, including four women participated in phase-1 of human clinical trials of Bharat Biotech’s indigenously-developed Covaxin, a vaccine for Covid-19, in Goa on Monday. The trial began on Saturday when eleven participants were injected with the dose. A 43-year-old woman was the first candidate to receive the dose on Monday morning while other volunteers are scheduled to be injected on Tuesday. Human clinical trial of the vaccine is under way at Redkar hospital in north Goa, which is one of the 12 sites selected by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for conducting trials. “We will complete phase-1 on Tuesday and start screening candidates for phase-2 the same day,” said Dr Dhananjay Lad, director of Crome Clinical Research Pvt Ltd, the agency in charge of trials. Lad said they are happy with the response from participants in Goa, adding, “They are all well-educated.” He said they expect to see the results of phase-1 declared by August 15. On August 13, participants of phase-1 will be called and tested for antibodies in their system. Earlier when registration for volunteers was opened at Redkar hospital, Lad said that the response has been “tremendous”..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/phase-1-of-vaccine-trial-ends-today/articleshow/77208644.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Mumbai||BJP will contest next Maharashtra assembly polls sans any crutches, says J P Nadda||MUMBAI: The next assembly elections in Maharashtra will be fought by the BJP on its own without any “crutches”, said the party’s national president J P Nadda. “We must start preparing from now to bring the party to power on its own in the state,” said Nadda, while addressing an online meeting of the newly appointed state BJP office-bearers on Monday from Delhi. Applauding the state unit for its “continuous expose” of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government on procurement for combating the Covid-19 crisis, he called for further strengthening of the party’s IT cell to expose the MVA’s failure. Noting that the state unit had 67,000 WhatsApp groups, Nadda said a narrative needed to be set for a political discourse and suggested a three-point programme for the state BJP’s IT cell to share PM Narendra Modi’s speeches and clippings to create awareness on the measures taken by the Centre to combat the Covid-19 crisis. “We must tell people about the Rs 1.7 lakh crore Atma Nirbhar package as also about the Gharib Kalyan Yojana. It is not possible to hold major rallies, but party workers need to be kept active at the village level,” he said, adding that the state unit should hold at least three webinars in every assembly segment with party workers and common people. State BJP president Chandrakant Patil said the party would perform its role of an opposition party and take to the streets to raise the issues affecting the common man. The party will be holding a protest on August 1 on the government’s failure to procure milk from farmers who no longer have buyers. Criticising the MVA for its handling of the Covid situation, Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis alleged the Thackeray-led government was creating new health infrastructure in Mumbai, while no aid had been provided to Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal bodies—BJP is the ruling party there. Fadnavis said the number of tests for ascertaining Covid spread in Mumbai was far less as compared to that in Pune. Taking a dig at Thackeray, Fadnavis said that while the steering wheel of the autorickshaw is in his hands, it is the passenger who decides the destination. “The two passengers (NCP and Congress) are pulling in different directions. The government will fall on account of its own internal contradictions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bjp-will-contest-next-state-assembly-polls-sans-any-crutches-says-nadda/articleshow/77207933.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Vadodara||‘Family farmers’ mint money with homes delivery of veggies||Vadodara: In times of coronavirus pandemic, Barodians are not only relying on their family doctors to keep themselves fit but also on their family farmers. With lockdown restricting movements and vegetable vendors being identified as ‘super spreaders’ by local authorities, the demand for a family farmer who would deliver vegetables at home sky-rocketed. A concept largely unheard of, it was started by a few farmers some years ago so that people can have fresh and healthy vegetables sitting at home every week. Within three months these farmers’ customer base has almost doubled and many have been kept in waiting as they may not be able to fulfil the supplies. “We used to supply vegetables to 100 houses before lockdown, but during and after the lockdown that number has increased to 150. We have also asked 100 other families to wait until next season as we cannot cater to so many families at a time,” said farmer Vanrajsinh Chauhan. Chauhan and two other farmers have got together to supply vegetables in Vadodara city. “People want fresh and good quality vegetables right now. We had started the concept with the same intention as we do not use any pesticides or chemicals in our farm,” said Chauhan, who has his farm on Nareshwar Road in Shinor taluka. “From 25 families before lockdown, the number has increased to 40 now,” said Kaushil Patel, a resident of Gorwa who raised another group of farmers. Patel, who believes in consuming indigenous food and items, explained the farmers in Sadhli village in Shinor taluka about the concept of the family farmer and how their income can increase. “The farmers’ annual net income is now Rs 6 lakh. It would not have been so much had they been selling their produces in market,” Patel said. Chauhan too said that his income has doubled since he started delivering vegetables directly to customers. “I sell the vegetables at the same price at what they would be buying from the market, but our products are chemical-free,” Chauhan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/family-farmers-mint-money-with-homes-delivery-of-veggies/articleshow/77205012.cms||Jay Pachchigar
July 28, 2020||Goa||Ponda upsurge related to Tulip Diagnostic cases||Panaji: Ponda which witnessed a trickle of cases last month is suddenly seeing a spike. The rise in Covid-19 infections in Ponda is directly linked to cases detected in the pharma unit, Tulip Diagnostic, at the Verna industrial estate. Several employees of Tulip Diagnostic live in Ponda. Earlier this month, over 130 employees of the pharma unit tested positive. Health officer at the Ponda primary health centre, Dr Smita Parsekar said that many family members of the employees have tested positive.  As of Monday there were 78 positive cases in Ponda taluka. For a town with a population of 76,000 it may appear a small figure, but Parsekar said that their main concern was spreading of the infection by contacts of those who have tested positive. “These contacts go all over the place — markets, offices — while their test results are awaited, thus spreading the infection,” she said. The home quarantined are not a problem as the authorities keep a strict vigil on them, Parsekar said. “People just walk into the Ponda sub-district hospital to find out about their result if they do not receive them within two to three days. They possibly pass on the infection to others if they are positive,” she said, adding that people refuse to listen even after they are clearly told that they should not step out of their house until their test results are received. “It is one of the reasons for our positive cases,” Parsekar said. Last month, several cops attached to Ponda police station, including the police inspector, had tested positive, and it was temporarily shut down. On Sunday, Ponda’s tally went up after 11 members of a joint family tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ponda-upsurge-related-to-tulip-diagnostic-cases/articleshow/77208645.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Nagpur||68 new Covid patients in Yavatmal||Yavatmal: The district registered 68 positive patients on Monday, 40 men and 28 women. Pandharkawda alone recorded 42 patients, 24 men and 18 women. Total patients in isolation ward of GMC Yavatmal is 300 while 64 cases are in the isolation ward. Total 28 deaths have been reported till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/68-new-covid-patients-in-yavatmal/articleshow/77207932.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Mumbai||PM Modi’s letter, Ajit’s post wishing Uddhav Thackeray on his birthday raise brows||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s letter wishing chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on his 60th birthday on Monday has sparked speculation in Maharashtra’s political circles. “Birthday is a day of recalling old memories and an opportunity to shape up the future, I believe that this birthday will give you more strength to achieve the targets of development of the state and the country,” the letter read. Sources said it seems that Modi has offered an olive branch to its former ally, the Shiv Sena, through the letter. On behalf of Thackeray, the CMO tweeted Modi’s letter, which is dated July 24, along with the message: “Your inspiring words will guide me for the bright future of me personally and even for the state. I am confident that we will receive your guidance to make Maharashtra as one of a significant contributor to the upliftment of the country in coming years.” Thackeray’s birthday is on July 27. BJP and Shiv Sena had been allies for 36 years having contested several local body, state assembly and Lok Sabha polls together since 1984. In 2014, they had parted ways before the assembly polls, but reunited after the election. In 2019, they had contested Lok Sabha and assembly polls together, but went separate ways after the assembly results following a dispute over the chief minister’s post. Meanwhile, deputy CM Ajit and NCP leader Pawar posted his birthday wishes to the chief minister on social media along with an old photograph of him steering a golf cart with Thackeray sitting beside him. However, much was read into the photograph as it was posted a day after Thackeray had proclaimed in an interview that he held “the steering wheel” of the Sena-NCP-Congress government in the state. Following remarks by opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis who had compared the MVA government to an autorickshaw, Thackeray had shot back saying that he was in the driving seat and other two (allies) were sitting behind. Sidestepping questions on the photograph from mediapersons, Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut said that irrespective of what the picture shows, "it is the Shiv Sena's vehicle" and given his vast experience, Ajit Pawar keeps giving "oil and water" to the vehicle (government) and ensures it keeps running at high speed. While extending birthday greetings to the chief minister, Raut said that Thackeray has the ability to lead the country. Many of Thackeray’s cabinet colleagues, including Ajit Pawar, Balasaheb Thorat and Eknath Shinde, wished him in person. (With IANS inputs)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/modis-letter-ajits-post-wishing-uddhav-on-his-bday-raise-brows/articleshow/77208056.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
July 28, 2020||Nashik||Covid-19 death rate down in Nashik city||NASHIK: The death rate of Covid-19 has reduced in the city from 4.8% on June 30 to 3.2% till July 27 in the city, said civic officials while attributing this to early detection of patients along with other measures. The recovery rate has also reached 75.2%, which is the highest ever so far. Now, the city has only 24.8% active patients, said the officials. “Moreover, 90% of the total positive patients are from high- and low-risk contacts of the patients,” they added. The first case was reported in the city on April 6 and there were only 12 patients by April 30 while the first death was reported on May 5. By May 31, there were 214 patients, with eight deaths, and the death rate was 3.7% However, there was a spike in positive cases and also deaths in June, with the city registering 2,182 cases by the end of the month, with 105 deaths, and the death rate was 4.8%. By June 26, the number of patients had risen to 7,700, and 247 deaths were reported. The death rate was 3.2%. “In July so far, the rate reduced despite a spike in cases because of our focus on contact tracing, immediate testing and treatment. We traced 23 high- and low-risk contacts of each positive patient and sent their swabs for testing,” said civic officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-death-rate-down-in-nashik-city/articleshow/77205003.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 28, 2020||Lucknow||Massive security ring around venue of ‘bhoomi pujan’||Ayodhya: The sprawling Saket Degree College grounds in Ayodhya, less than 2km from Ramjanmabhoomi, will be the landing station for Prime Minister Narendra Modi, where a helipad is being laid out to make room for four helicopters and an emergency chopper on standby, said sources in the district administration and police. Other dignitaries will, however, touch down at the airport in Faizabad, 10km from the temple town and drive down to Ramjanmabhoomi. National security agencies along with Ayodhya administration are busy finalising the security blueprint at the temple site and adjoining areas. Top intelligence sources told TOI that all roads leading to Ayodhya will be sealed, there will be heavy police deployment along Saryu banks and snipers will be stationed atop all houses adjacent to Ramjanmabhoomi premises during PM’s visit. DIG, Ayodhya, Deepak Kumar, who took charge 48 hours back, said, “We are conducting security drills and preparing for VIP movement. Also, we will not allow crowds to gather near the temple site in keeping with Covid protocols.” Key concern of security agencies is fortifying the sanctum sanctorum, where Prime Minister Modi will lay the foundation stone. “This is an elevated site and clearly visible from the outer periphery of Ramjanmabhoomi premises. Also, managing security of 200 special invitees will be a challenge as the temple site is hemmed in by densely populated habitat,” said a senior police official. There’s always a possibility of breach in social distancing norms amidst massive deployment of police, paramilitary personnel and commandos for security of PM and other dignitaries, said police sources. At least eight security personnel deployed at Ramjanmabhoomi have tested positive for coronavirus till Monday. According to top sources in the district administration, security agencies and SPG responsible for PM's security have begun groundwork without involving local police. However, the men in khaki are continuing with their security drills in the run-up to the bhoomi pujan on August 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/massive-security-ring-around-venue-of-bhoomi-pujan/articleshow/77208648.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
July 28, 2020||Chandigarh||HC lets Hry pvt schools take fee, annual charges||Chandigarh: In what can be seen as respite for private unaided schools in Haryana, the Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday disposed of petitions against charging of fee by private schools during lockdown in terms of the single bench’s June 30 order passed in relation to the state of Punjab. With this, private unaided schools in Haryana would be permitted to collect tuition fee, admission fee and annual charges from students. Even those schools not having online class facilities, would be entitled to get tuition fee from students. Justice Ramender Jain has passed these orders while disposing of petition filed by Sarv Vidyalaya Sangh and others. The copy of the order was not available till the filing of this report. The judge, however, clarified that the order passed by a single bench in relation to Punjab schools, would also be applicable to Haryana on the issue of school fees. In its order dated June 30, the single bench of Justice Nirmaljit Kaur had ordered that the school management of each school would work out their actual expenditure incurred under annual charges for the period the school remained closed and recover only such genuine expenditure incurred by them including actual transport charges and actual building charges, but shall not recover any charge for this period for any activity or facility towards which no expenditure was incurred. However, the annual charges for remaining period shall be recovered as already fixed by the school. The single bench, however, had made it clear that schools shall restrain themselves from increasing fee for the year 2020-21 and adopt the same fee structure as 2019-20. HC had also held that in case any school is facing a financial crunch for not having charged the increased fee for the year 2020-21, it could move a representation to the district education officer along with proof of the same, and the officer would look into it. Punjab has challenged the June 30 orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-lets-hry-pvt-schools-take-fee-annual-charges/articleshow/77207938.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Meerut||Staff at post-mortem house in Baghpat demands Rs 8,700 from labourer for his son’s autopsy, probe on||Strap: Body Handed Out Without Being Covered In Plastic Bag, Allege Kin & Write To CM Meerut: A gust of wind blew the bloody rag, exposing the long sewn up incisions of 16-year-old Chotu Sharma’s pale and lifeless body. With a stoic resignation, his father, Sompal Sharma, tried to cover it again, but in vain as the vehicle was moving at a fast pace to make it to the crematorium before sunset.A few hours ago, on Sunday afternoon, Sompal was trying to convince the staff of a post-mortem house in Baghpat to wrap his son’s body in a plastic bag, which is a norm after autopsy. They again asked for money, which Sompal, a labourer, had exhausted by now.When Sompal brought his son’s body for post-mortem examination there, the staff allegedly asked him to return and come back on Monday due to weekend lockdown. “But where we could have taken the body,” a kin asked.After a round of persuasion, the staff agreed to conduct the autopsy, but at a cost. They asked Rs 8,700. Left with no choice, Sompal and his kin somehow managed to collect Rs 5,500 among them. After another round of coaxing, the staff took the money and conducted the post-mortem examination. But, they didn’t drape the body in the plastic bag and handed it over to the family in the same clothes it was brought in.Chotu had committed suicide on Saturday. His body was found hanging from a tree in Nirpura village of Baghpat, a tragedy that necessitated post-mortem examination of the body.Speaking to TOI, a friend of Sompal, Nishchay Rana said, “The minor’s body was found hanging from a tree on Saturday evening. After completing paperwork, the police sent the body to a post-mortem house and we too reached there. But the staff over there said the examination would be conducted on Monday. We could not delay the cremation so we insisted that it should be done on Sunday itself for which the staff demanded Rs 8,700. We collected Rs 5,500 and gave it to them. Later, they asked for more money for the plastic bag. When we refused, they handed over the body in disheveled state. While we were taking it back to the village, the cloth also gave away exposing the badly sewn body.”But, after the last rites were done, Sompal, his family members and villagers decided to “avenge the insult to the dead”. The next day, they approached the higher authorities and also marked a complaint to chief minister Yogi Adityanath.Dr Sandeep Pal, doctor on duty for post-mortem refuted the charges. “What I know of is a dispute between villagers and class IV employees over a sum of Rs 800. I came to know about the matter when our team was conducting the post-mortem examination. The call had come from the chief medical officer. Generally, police provide the polythene bag in which the body is wrapped after the procedure. It was perhaps not provided. It was a kind of non-issue but the allegation of Rs 8,000 was demanded is grossly exaggerated.”Meanwhile, chief medical officer Raj Kishore Tandon has instituted an inquiry into the matter. “We have instituted an inquiry into the matter under chief medical superintendent of District Hospital Baghpat. If anyone is found guilty appropriate action will be taken against him or them,” Tandon said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/staff-at-post-mortem-house-in-baghpat-demands-rs-8700-from-labourer-for-his-sons-autopsy-probe-on/articleshow/77204992.cms||Sandeep Rai
July 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Exiled by coronavirus fear, villagers living in fields return home||VISAKHAPATNAM: In remote Pathanaidupalem village in Visakhapatnam district, residents who had abandoned their homes and taken up temporary shelter in fields and orchards after the first Covid-19 positive case was reported in the village on July 7 are now gradually returning home after 20 days. The village falls under Gunupudi gram panchayat under Nathavaram mandal in Narsipatnam assembly constituency. Poluparthi Rajesh, a resident of the village who returned from Singapore in March before the nationwide lockdown was imposed, told TOI that almost all the villagers set up temporary structures in the nearby farmland and on orchids soon after a resident tested positive for Covid-19. “Now, nearly 50 per cent of them have returned to their homes while the remaining are still staying in the fields in thatched huts and in isolated places,” Rajesh said, adding that nearly 40 per cent of the villagers, including him, had returned from Singapore, Chennai, Hyderabad, Karimnagar and Mumbai soon after the outbreak started. Speaking to TOI, Gunupudi primary health center medical officer V Padma Priya said the first case in Pathanaidupalem was reported on July 7 after a man who returned from Srikalahasti in Nellore district tested positive. In a matter of days, the virus spread, with the number of infections rising to 33, as of Monday. Infections were also traced to another person who returned from Mysore, Padma Priya said. “Seven of the 33 Covid-19 positive cases have been discharged till date. We have conducted Covid-19 tests on 136 people so far. Except one case, 32 cases are asymptomatic. One case is presently under treatment in Vizag city,” Padma Priya told TOI. With the help of police and other stakeholders, officials held awareness camps among residents of the village on the importance of social distancing norms and other precautionary measures, Padma Priya said. Speaking to TOI, Nathavaram police sub-inspector J Ramesh said they visited the fields and orchards where the villagers had taken up shelter, and held awareness camps in an attempt to persuade them to return to the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/exiled-by-virus-fear-villagers-living-in-fields-return-home/articleshow/77206361.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
July 28, 2020||Nashik||326 fresh cases, 10 deaths reported across Nashik district||NASHIK: With addition of 326 new cases between Sunday and Monday, the total number of Covid-19 patients across Nashik district increased to 12,488. “Of the new cases, 219 were reported from Nashik city alone. Also, as many as 10 deaths were also reported in the district of which seven were from the city. District’s death toll has reached to 467,” a health official said, adding the number of active cases stands at 2,723.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/326-fresh-cases-10-deaths-reported-across-nashik-district/articleshow/77204993.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gold price hits record high in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Gold price hit a record high price of Rs 54,130 per 10 gram in Ahmedabad on Monday. Yellow metal price surged by Rs 1,150 against Saturday’s Rs 52,900 per 10 gram. Analysts attribute the rise in gold price to global factors and economic uncertainty. Haresh Acharya, director, India Bullion & Jewellers’ Association (IBJA), said, “A weaker US dollar in the international market, intensified tensions between US and China in addition to surge in Covid-19 cases in various countries added to the economic uncertainty. This led increasing number of investors to move towards safe-haven investment, thus causing a sharp rise in international price of gold, which followed the domestic rally.” Yellow metal price rose in the international market as well to touch the highest ever level of $1,934 per ounce. With the fresh surge, gold delivered 51% returns in a year; against a price of Rs 35,840 per 10 gram on July 27, 2019. TOI reported on Sunday that the yellow metal proved to be the best asset class for investors who had invested last year. The rise in yellow metal price however, has proven to be detrimental for retail demand as jewellery sale has taken a major hit. “There is a clear recession in the jewellery market as buying is hardly there. People are coming to buy light-weight jewellery but no major purchases are taking place,” said Jigar Soni, vice-president, Jewellers’ Association of Ahmedabad. Wedding occasions are also deferred or turned into subdued affairs in the time of a pandemic and therefore, the demand for jewellery has further taken a hit. Industry players however revealed that investors have begun moving towards bullion amid the price rally. “Gold has been delivering 3% returns every week since its upward rally past the Rs 50,000-mark began. As a consequence, people whose fixed deposits matured in the recent past, have begun investments in the yellow metal in the form of bars and coins. Other high networth individuals too have been investing in gold anticipating better returns,” Soni further went on to say.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gold-price-hits-record-high-in-city/articleshow/77207935.cms||Niyati Parikh
July 28, 2020||Kolkata||Don’t experiment with repurposed drugs: West Bengal||KOLKATA: The state health department has asked doctors not to use immunomodulator drugs randomly in management of Covid patients. The advisory came after the protocol management team that has been visiting Covid hospitals on a regular basis found lacunae in some facilities. Immunomodulators are groups of drugs that are used to regulate or normalize the immune system of patients. Currently, two immunomodulators — tocilizumab and dexamethasone — are being used by doctors in the management of Covid patients with moderate to severe infection. Both are used in treatment of other ailments but are now repurposed drugs used in treating Covid-19. “There is insufficient data from the randomized trials with clinical outcomes/and or no evidence from validated laboratory endpoints to recommend immunomodulators for the treatment of Covid-19. Therefore, it is advised not to use immunomodulators randomly,” said the recommendation by the state health department. Doctors treating Covid patients said these drugs are sparingly used on patients who are moderately or severely infected, either needing oxygen or ventilation support. “We use tocilizumab on patients who have increasing requirement of oxygen and whose IL-6 level is five times more than the normal level. We look for clear indications before applying the medication,” said Saswati Sinha, internal medicine and critical care specialist at AMRI Hospital, Dhakuria. IL-6 (Interleukin) is one of the cytokines (proteins). Its increase in the blood is correlated with acute respiratory distress syndrome. Tocilizumab is used by doctors as an IL-6 blocker. The recommendation says that use of tocilizumab may reduce the risk of invasive mechanic ventilation or death in patients with severe Covid-19 pneumonia. But it causes reduction in white blood cells, hence could invite secondary infections. “Tocilizumab is used primarily in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Its main application in Covid management is to inhibit IL-6 and other inflammatory cytokine. But at the same time, it also reduces white blood cells. Therefore, the advisory is welcome,” said Subhrojyoti Bhowmik, clinical director at Peerless Hospital. Other side effects of tocilizumab include headache, bronchitis, increase in liver enzyme and drug-induced hepatic failure. Dexamethasone is another immunomodulator in the form of a steroid that is used by doctors in patients who require oxygen constantly. The protocol management team set up by the state health department has also recommended anti-viral drug ramdesivir to be considered on patients with moderate infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dont-experiment-with-repurposed-drugs-state/articleshow/77206371.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Sonu Sood offers job to Hyderabad techie who sells vegetables||HYDERABAD: A techie from the city, Undadi Sharada, who lost her job during the Covid-19 outbreak, and has been selling vegetables at Srinagar Colony, has been given a job offer by actor Sonu Sood. “My official met her. Interview done. Job letter already sent. Jai Hind,” Sonu Sood tweeted late on Monday evening responding to one Ritchie Shelson, who brought the fact to his notice. The 26-year-old is elated that ‘Sonu Sood Bhaiya’ called her. “I have been closely following him, he has been helping people. When he called me, I was both surprised and happy,” she told TOI. My official met her.Interview done. Job letter already sent. Jai hind 🇮🇳🙏 @PravasiRojgar https://t.co/tqbAwXAcYt— sonu sood (@SonuSood) 1595865449000She, however, did not get into the details of what job offer was made to her. Sharada said she was proud she has been able to survive in a tough situation, without sticking to ‘false prestige’. “There is nothing to be ashamed of. It was a question of survival,” she said. She gets up at 4am, goes to the market to wholesale mark to buy vegetables and sells them practically spending 12 hours on the pavement. Sharada had joined an MNC in Hyderabad, but three months into the job, the Covid crisis began. Sharada’s family hails from Warangal district and her father has been selling vegetables to make ends meet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sonu-sood-offers-job-to-city-techie-who-sells-vegetables/articleshow/77207937.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 28, 2020||Kozhikode||Woman officer begins probe||Kozhikode: Woman IPS officer, who has been inducted into the police team that is conducting the investigation into the Palathayi sexual abuse case, has started the preliminary process to record the survivor’s statement. The team led by Reshma Ramesh, ASP, narcotic cell, Kannur, visited the girl and her family members on Monday. It is learnt that the team would take some time to record the girl’s statement. The case is that Kuniyil Padmarajan, a local BJP leader in Panur in Kannur and also a schoolteacher, sexually abused a 10-year-old student. The crime branch had filed a chargesheet without incorporating sections of the Pocso Act saying that more probe is needed to assess the scientific evidence. K P Munas, the survivor’s lawyer said that besides ASP, a counsellor and a female family member took part in the interaction with the girl. “The police team is creating confidence in the girl,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/woman-officer-begins-probe/articleshow/77206448.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Corona suspect’ left to die, says wife||Abohar: A government school lecturer of Abohar, whose husband died while undergoing treatment after being marked “Corona suspect”, has blamed the allegedly poor medical services at government hospitals for his death. Neeta Pandhu, wife of Parvinder Kamboj, who was an associate professor in a local college, said he developed mild fever on July 16 with a slight sore throat. Since even after four days of medication, his throat pain persisted, they went for a test at the Abohar civil hospital and gave their samples on July 20. “Although we were told that the report comes within one day, it didn’t come till July 22 and the condition of my husband started worsening, following which he was referred to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot. But, there was no doctor to attend to the emergency patients,” she alleged. The doctor on duty said since the referral slip of Parvinder mentioned “Corona suspect”, he would be shifted to the isolation ward till the report came. She pleaded that her husband needed immediate medical attention, but they left Parvinder to die lying alone and unattended in the isolation ward, she alleged. “My world was shattered. All my life I have kept encouraging and helping students to become doctors. I had even acclaimed the Corona warriors on my Facebook page a few months back, but at Faridkot, I saw a new face of ‘corona warriors’. I have lost everything — my faith, my hope, my spirit and may lose my life too,” she rued and demanded a probe into the death of her husband,However, denying any delay in the test report, Fazilka civil surgeon Dr Chander Mohan Kataria said every patient referred to the Faridkot medical College is marked as suspected corona patient in the absence of a test report. Abohar MLA Arun Narang said contrary to the claims of the government about the medical facilities being provided in the hospitals, the death of Parvinder has exposed all their claims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/corona-suspect-left-to-die-says-wife/articleshow/77207970.cms||Dinesh K Sharma
July 28, 2020||Aurangabad||Webinar held on importance of IPR||AURANGABAD: The European Patent Office (EPO) and European Business and Technology Centre (EBTC) on Monday conducted an online training webinar called “Business Use of Patent Information” for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs), start-ups, incubation centres and innovators. The webinar was jointly organized by Chamber of Marathwada Industries and Agriculture (CMIA) and Marathwada Accelator for Growth and Incubation Council (MAGIC) with an aim to bring awareness about the importance of having Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) related to trademark, copyright, patent and industrial design. MAGIC’s director Ashish Garde told TOI, “Our aim was to educate young entrepreneurs and make them aware about IPR so that businesses are planned accordingly and are taken to another level by creating a win-win situation.” Over 120 participants from across the country, including patent experts, professionals, start-ups, academicians, MSME’s incubator professionals, attended the webinar. During the webinar, subject experts cited a series of examples about the patents that are currently being used in different sectors right from farming to the high-end industries operating in India and abroad.-Mohammed Akhef||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/webinar-held-on-importance-of-ipr/articleshow/77205002.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 28, 2020||Kolkata||Yes, isolation can play on your mind, Kolkata agrees with Big B||KOLKATA: Megastar Amitabh Bachchan’s social network post on Covid-induced loneliness has found resonance among scores of Kolkata patients who are now at various stages of recovery or have just tested negative, but remain quarantined. Cut off from families and acquaintances, often facing ostracization from neighbours, they fight a lonely battle that’s taking a toll on their mental health, they said. City psychiatrists and psychologists said they had been doing frequent online consultations with Covid patients grappling with isolation. Whether they are quarantined at home or treated at the hospital, Covid patients can’t help but feel lonely, said psychiatrist J Ram. “The isolation is leaving them stressed, insecure and scared. This is unlike other diseases that allow family and doctors to interact with you and lend support. As Amitabh Bachchan rightly pointed out, even doctors and nurses must keep a distance from patients,” he said. Souveek Mitra, a healthworker, shifted to a different apartment after testing positive. But he kept worrying about his elderly parents, wife and children who later tested negative, Mitra wrote in a Facebook post. Covid patients are deprived of all human contact and positive vibes — aspects essential for treatment, according to psychologist Soumya Mukherjee. “This makes the patient’s recovery a bit tough. Also, the disease has been stigmatizing patients. Patients are holding themselves responsible for the trouble that their families and neighbours are going through,” Mukherjee said. Ram cited the instance of a 50-year-old who tested positive a week after his wife was diagnosed with Covid-19. They were quarantined at home. “Isolated and separated at home left the couple distressed. They started suffering from hypertension and panic attacks,” Ram said. Two weeks after he tested positive, an asymptomatic young professional had low fever. He desperately tried to contact his doctor and didn’t disclose his fever to family members lest they worry and send him to a hospital. “His doctor was unavailable and he was on the verge of a nervous breakdown when he got in touch with me. Fortunately, he had recovered by then but needed counselling,” a psychologist said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/yes-isolation-can-play-on-your-mind-kolkata-agrees-with-big-b/articleshow/77206376.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
July 28, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: E-W Metro staffers join Covid-19 fight, donate plasma after recovery||KOLKATA: East-West Metro workers are donating plasma after recovering from Covid. More than 30 labourers and engineers involved in the 16km Metro corridor project will be donating for clinical trials at Calcutta Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) in the next few weeks. The last leg of the underground tunneling — from BB Ganguly Street to Sealdah — was stalled a fortnight ago as 60-odd workers got infected. Twenty-six others from the Howrah-Esplanade section tested positive. Work, however, is progressing smoothly. Two labourers from Bihar’s Siwan — Nizauddin and Subhnarayan Sah — from this section of the project donated plasma at CMCH last week at the behest of Afcons, the company contracted to build the 3.5km Howrah Maidan-Esplanade stretch. Tunnelling for this part was over two years ago. Afcons is now completing the ventilation shaft at Strand Road and the three stations — Howrah Maidan, Howrah Station and Mahakaran. Another construction company, ITD ITD-Cementation, is building the twin 2.45km underground tunnels between Esplanade and Sealdah station. In mid-July, the company had to stop work because the entire team operating the tunnel boring machine tested positive. Fortunately, Afcons could continue the construction. The company has been routinely testing and isolating the 500-odd workers. Those who tested positive were isolated at Afcons’s casting yard in Howrah’s Shibpur. “We are responding to the Bengal government’s plea for plasma donation. We have taken up various activities to help the authorities combat the pandemic in Bhutan, Bangladesh and Africa,” Satya Narayan Kanwar, project manager, Afcons. “More Afcons workers are lined up for plasma donation,” said Sandip Paul, scientist, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, which is collaborating for the plasma trial. “We are proud of Subhnarayan and Nizamuddin,” KMRC MD Manasa Sarkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/e-w-metro-staffers-join-covid-19-fight-donate-plasma-after-recovery/articleshow/77206370.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
July 28, 2020||Bhopal||Govt schools perform better than private ones||BHOPAL: The class 12 result of government schools outstood that of private schools this year. In the class 12th MP board results declared on Monday, the pass result of government schools stood at 71.4% , while 64.9% students of private schools cleared the examinations. However, the pass result of government schools this year dropped by 3% as 74.38% students passed last year. While that of private schools slipped by 4.6%, with 69.55% students clearing exams the previous year. Notably, in class 10 results that were announced on July 5, the government schools had a better pass percentage than the private academies. As 63.6% students of govt schools had cleared the exam while 61.6% students of private schools managed to secure a pass degree. The school education department of the state congratulated the teachers of government schools for outperforming private schools in class 12 board exams. Of over 2.7 lakh students who scored the first division marks, over 1.62 lakh belonged to government schools. And a little more than 1.15 lakh students were from private schools. Commissioner DPI , Jaishri Kiyawat said, “The students of government school emerged as toppers and performed well in the board exams. The efforts of teachers and constant supervision and help to students bore fruitful results. The teachers provided day-coaching to students in difficult subjects and worked on holidays and Sundays too. They gave their best to the students and students in turn worked very hard to secure good marks." She added that the teachers’ tour to South Korea and govt schools of New Delhi helped them guide students better. “The school education department monitored the schools that had less than 30% pass percentage and provided training to the teachers last year to help them improve the result,” added Kiyawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/govt-schools-perform-better-than-pvt-ones/articleshow/77208643.cms||Shuchita Jha
July 28, 2020||Lucknow||Trust: Don’t donate valuables||Ayodhya: The Ram Mandir Trust has issued an appeal to devotees who wish to make donations for Ram temple saying that donations should come through bank deposits only and not in the form of valuables. The trust has specifically asked devotees not to donate bricks of silver or gold or any precious gems or jewellery as the trust has got no facility to check the authenticity of the metals and has no place to store such valuables. Secretary of Ram Mandir Trust Champat Rai said devotees in large numbers had been donating silver bricks for the Ram temple but that was creating problems for the trust as it could not evaluate or store them. “Till now, more than 1 quintal of silver and other metal bricks have been donated to the trust,” he said. Rai added that devotees should donate only through bank deposits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/trust-dont-donate-valuables/articleshow/77208652.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
July 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: West Zone pays highest penalty||AHMEDABAD: The 141 teams of the solid waste department collected Rs 5 lakh in fines — Rs 1.3L from paan shops — for not following social distancing norms. The teams also fined 758 people who were not wearing the mask at public places. Following the July 13 order, the teams have been charging Rs 500 for not wearing masks. The Rs 10,000 penalty for paan shops is yet to be implemented. Officials said that it has been noticed that the customers are not spitting near the shop but on the main roads. From day one, west zone, including areas of Ranip, Navrangpura, Naranpura, Paldi and Vasna, is paying the highest penalty for not wearing masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/west-zone-pays-highest-penalty/articleshow/77208141.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Kolkata||Turned away after testing +ve for Covid: Pregnant woman to panel in West Bengal||KOLKATA: Following allegations of some private hospitals refusing pregnant women for delivery for testing Covid positive ahead of the procedure, the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) on Monday told hospitals that patients have to be told at the onset that they can be refused admission if they test Covid positive. Expecting mothers cannot be turned away at the last moment, hospitals have been told. According to once such complaint, a young woman from New Town had been consulting a gynaecologist and obstetrics attached with a mother-and-child specialty hospital since the beginning of her pregnancy. She was to have a full term C-section delivery in the hospital in mid-July. With Covid test becoming mandatory before any surgical procedure, her swab samples were tested a few days before the C-section. The reports came positive. Her husband alleged that the hospital she had been consulting for nine months denied the services once the report arrived. The woman later delivered the child in another private hospital. “Three such cases have come to our notice though no formal complaint has been lodged. This is unfortunate and can be avoided. The advisory is, therefore, meant at addressing this issue. This will benefit the clinical establishments and the patients as well,” said justice (retired) Ashim Kumar Banerjee, chairman of WBCERC. The commission has also warned hospitals that have Covid treatment facility not to refuse any patient, including pregnant women, on the pretext of inadequate infrastructure. According to the advisory issued on Monday and signed by commission secretary Arshan Hassan Warsi, a hospital should inform a patient when she visits for the first consultation for pregnancy that she can be refused admission in case she turns positive. The hospitals should also make an agreement with the gynaecologist (either enrolled or visiting) that the hospital’s infrastructure will not support the treatment of a Covid patient. But if a patient is already registered with a particular hospital, the hospital will not deny admission to the woman, says the advisory. “In case a hospital does not have the infrastructure, it should make arrangements to get the patient admitted to another hospital by offering her three choices. The hospital should also take adequate measures for shifting her to the facility of her choice,” said the advisory. The patient, however, has to pay for the transport. The health panel has also sent a subtle message to hospitals on billing. The husband of the New Town woman had also alleged that another private hospital had asked for an exorbitant amount for the delivery. If a hospital has the facility to conduct the delivery procedure — normal or C-section — and agreed to admit the patient, the hospital would be entitled to a sum not exceeding the amount as per government guideline, in addition to the package given to the patient, the advisory said. “This advisory is issued in the interest of both expecting mothers and clinical establishments to avoid unnecessary allegations and miscommunications in future,” said Banerjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/turned-away-after-testing-ve-for-covid-pregnant-woman-to-panel/articleshow/77206362.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 28, 2020||Bhopal||Lockdown day 3: BMC veggie vans hit streets as supply comes to a standstill in Bhopal||BHOPAL: On third day of the 10-day lockdown in Bhopal, vegetable vans authorised by the civic body hit the streets of Bhopal on the third day of 10-day lockdown. However, they were very few in numbers and didn't have fresh vegetables either. As the Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) started sale of vegetables, some vegetable vendors also rolled out their vegetable-laden handcarts. Whatever little stuff they had was sold out instantly. When one of the vendors selling vegetables on behalf of BMC was asked why he had only a few vegtables and they were not fresh either, he said “Mandi mein he maal nahin aa raha (Vegetables are not arriving at the wholesale market itself).” Besides, it was the last “Sawan Somvar” on Monday. Temples may be closed under the lockdown but those selling bel patra, dhatura, flower petals for offering to Lord Shiva were on the streets near temples, which in normal circumstances would have been full of devotees , till the afternoon. At some places, construction activities were also on. The company carrying out laying of water and sewage pipelines doing it near Shahpura and Mahabalipuram in Kolar. At a construction site in Gulmohar, too, labourers were carrying out work under the supervision of a person, who appeared to be the owner of the under-construction building. Under the lockdown guidelines, construction activities are allowed if the workers live at the site of construction itself. Meanwhile, the issue of transport facility from railway station and airport remained unresolved. After media reports on passengers having tough time in reaching to and from the airport or the railway stations after the lockdown was imposed, the district admmistration on the second day had hinted that Ola and Uber cabs would be available to passengers. However, things remained unchanged on Monday as well. There were no autos or taxis at the airport or the railway stations and a few who were there asked for extravagant fares leaving the flyers and the passengers with no option but to fend for themselves. Roop Singh Tomar, an auto driver, who usually operates from Habibganj railway station, said they are not going to station because they don't have the permission to operate auto during the lockdown. When told it wasn't the case, he said, “Police stops us and asks for papers and other things. We would have been happy ferrying passengers from the station. Only Janshatabadi and Bhopal Express are operational from Habibganj right now. Still, we were able to earn something for the family but now we are jobless once again.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/lockdown-day-3-bmc-veggie-vans-hit-streets-as-supply-comes-to-a-standstill/articleshow/77208647.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
July 28, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Domestic refuse finds way into bio-medical waste||KOLKATA: Bio-medical waste collection from households affected by Covid-19 has suffered a setback with several patients and their family failing to segregate them from other domestic refuse. According to a spokesperson of a private agency that has been entrusted with the job of collecting bio-medical wastes from households where Covid positive patients are in quarantine, mixing of general and bio-medical waste has created a major crisis and if not solved, it will get compounded and the scientific disposal system will crumble under pressure. Even some Covid-designate hospitals are also handing over mixed waste to the private agency, the spokesperson alleged. According to the spokesperson, people in several wards are pouring food leftovers like rice, pulses and cooked vegetables into the yellow bag that are being provided by the agency for accumulating bio-medical waste such as used masks, head cover/cap, gloves, tissues, toiletries and diaper (both adult & child), among others. This is not all. Plastic bottles, green coconuts and even flower bouquets are being poured into the yellow bags. This is posing a serious threat to the incinerator of the agency that is used for scientific burning of bio-medical waste. “Our incinerator is under threat as it can’t take plastics, green coconuts or flower bouquets. Also, the weight of waste has become another threat for the incinerator,” said the agency spokesperson. An official of the agency alleged that though they were supposed to collect 270gm of bio-medical wastes from each Covid household, in several households across the city the weight was exceeding a kilo. A Kolkata Municipal Corporation official conceded that the situation was really alarming and needed to be solved at the earliest. “The agency has complained to us in writing, seeking a solution. We are working out a formula to offer a solution,” the KMC official said. According to the civic official, the KMC solid waste management department workers, armed with a protective gear, will visit households where Covid patients have been quarantined and collect all food and general waste. “According to the Central Pollution Control Board guidelines, we will insist that people keep three separate bags in a household where a Covid-positive patient is in quarantine. While our workers will collect all general waste kept in a black bag, the agency will collect bio-medical waste in yellow and red bags,” the KMC official said. According to a Central Pollution Control Board guideline, the red bag will contain used PPEs such as goggles, face-shield, splash proof apron, hazmat suit and nitrile gloves. “Both the civic workers and the agency workers will take adequate personal protection while handling waste and the KMC workers will need to disinfect the black bag every day,” a KMC senior official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/domestic-refuse-finds-way-into-bio-med-waste/articleshow/77206368.cms||Saikat Ray
July 28, 2020||Vadodara||New cases near 100 a day as 96 test positive||Vadodara: The number of new Covid-19 cases reported in Vadodara city and district is nearing the three-figure mark now. Since Sunday night, 96 new Covid-19 cases had been reported even as the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) confirmed two more deaths. The 96 cases were confirmed from 631 tests that had been conducted since Sunday night. West zone of the city that used to throw up low number till recently, registered the highest number of Covid-19 cases on Monday with 21 persons testing positive. This was followed by the north zone where 19 persons tested positive and the south zone that reported 18 cases. Sixteen cases were reported from the east zone of the city. Areas of the district outside the VMC limits saw 22 new cases. These included patients from Dabhoi, Padra, Karjan, Savli, Koyli, Karodiya, Ankodiya, Bhayli, Sokhda and Asoj. With two more deaths being confirmed by the VMC, the death toll of the people who succumbed to Covid-19 rose to 79. Several other persons have died after testing positive for Covid-19, but had other comorbidities that are believed to be the primary cause of deaths. Thirty-two persons were discharged from various hospitals in the city or home quarantine taking the total number of discharged patients to 3,295. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/new-cases-near-100-a-day-as-96-test-positive/articleshow/77205057.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Nagpur||40,000 tigers in 1900, why can’t we hold 3,000 now: Rithe||Nagpur: In some good new amid the Covid-19 pandemic, India’s tiger population has showed a steady increase from 2,226 in 2014 to 2,967 in 2018. This was possible as individual reserves have been shining as an outcome of village resettlement works and containing poaching threats. Talking to media on eve of Global Tiger Day, Kishor Rithe, working for tiger conservation in Vidarbha landscape, said, “Some 30 years ago, we had a dream to regain our lost tiger population and focused on resolving key issues like huge anthropogenic pressure from villages situated in the core areas and rampant poaching.” The Maharashtra government brought out a lucrative relocation package and expedited village resettlement work and also took several measures to arrest poaching threat due to which tiger population increased from 100 to 300 in last 30 years in the state. “This is really laudable and it happened due to political will and committed forest officers,” Rithe stated. However, with growing tiger population a section of officials have coined the idea to shift 50 tigers from Vidarbha landscape and sterilize male tigers. “I want to remind them that India had 40,000 tigers in 1900. If the forests of this country could host 40,000 tigers in 1900, why can’t it host 3,500 tigers today?” he asked. It is a problem of management and not tigers, he adds. Rithe said the real solutions lie in strengthening tiger corridors and regaining fragmented habitats lost due to due to infrastructure projects and agricultural encroachments. “Linear infrastructure projects like expressways, highways, railways, irrigation canals and transmission lines are coming up in the corridors causing problems for tiger survival.” “Agriculture encroachments are fragmenting tiger corridors outside PAs and tiger reserves. The surface transport, railways, water resources ministries are reluctant to accept responsibility of avoiding tiger corridors and adopt appropriate mitigation measures on their own while deciding project alignments. Why do they need NGOs and courts to tell them to do it?” Rithe asked. “We have not reached a tiger number to start thinking about sterilizing tigers or translocating them. We only need to strengthen corridors. On the Global Tiger Day, respective departments need to take a pledge for green infrastructures and readiness to protect tiger corridors,” said Rithe. The ministry of road transport and highways issued order on May 29, 2019, to bypass PAs while deciding its alignments, even if it requires taking a longer route. Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis allocated enough money for wildlife mitigation structures on Mumbai-Nagpur Samruddhi expressway. Present chief minister Uddhav Thackeray asked to upgrade Akola-Khandwa meter gauge line from outside the core area of Melghat tiger reserve. “These are positive developments for tiger conservation and it will take work to the next level,” he applauded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/40000-tigers-in-1900-why-cant-we-hold-3000-now-rithe/articleshow/77227897.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 28, 2020||Mumbai||Soon, if bldr fails to complete redevpt project in 3 yrs, NOC will be cancelled||Mumbai: A long-pending proposal mooted by elected representatives of the island city is set to be approved at the next cabinet meeting following the collapse of Bhanushali building in Fort last week. The proposal, prepared by a committee of eight MLAs, has been awaiting cabinet approval since Prithviraj Chavan was chief minister. Housing minister Jitendra Awhad said the proposal would be passed at the next cabinet meeting. Some recommendations include automatic cancellation of NOC granted to a developer if he fails to complete the project within three years. A six-month opportunity will be granted to the land-owner and another six months to tenants to complete the project. If they fail to do so, the project will be taken over by MHADA, which will appoint a contractor to complete it. MHADA vice-president Milind Mhaiskar said there are 500-1,000 dangerous buildings in Dongri, Bhuleshwar and at Mohammed Ali Road that need to be redeveloped on priority. He said the recommendation will allow MHADA to acquire buildings in the vicinity of a dangerous building if standalone redevelopment is not possible. “This will help us to take up cluster redevelopment,” he said. There are an estimated 12,500 cessed buildings in the island city that need to be redeveloped. But buildings along Marine Drive and Malabar Hill are in better condition and do not need immediate redevelopment, said Mhaiskar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/soon-if-bldr-fails-to-complete-redevpt-project-in-3-yrs-noc-will-be-cancelled/articleshow/77207593.cms||Clara Lewis
July 28, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Collected 30 years ago, 2 lakh ‘Sri Ram’ bricks to form Temple’s edifice||LUCKNOW: Over 2 lakh bricks (shilas) with ‘Sri Ram’ inscribed on them in various languages, collected over 30 years ago from across the country, will form the foundation of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. These bricks, which hold emotional value for devotees, will also be used to build a memorial wall to highlight the contribution of all those involved in the Ram temple movement. According to VHP office-bearers, the move will help future generations to get acquainted with the history of Ram Temple movement. Chief architect of the temple, Chandrakantbhai Sompura, whose grandfather was also involved in the refurbishment of Somnath temple in Gujarat, told TOI that the foundation would be cemented with bricks. “Bricks will be used for the foundation and a marble ‘chaukath’ (threshold), which is ready, will be placed on it,” said Sompura, who is currently in Gujarat. On these bricks, ‘Sri Ram’ is inscribed in Gujarati, Bengali, Tamil, Telugu and other Indian languages. These were collected from villages and homes across India in 1989. Some of the bricks had been sent from as far as Canada and China, signifying the people’s movement for the construction of Ram temple. For last 30 years, these bricks were arranged in the shape of a symbolic Ram temple at VHP’s temple workshop in Ayodhya and revered by pilgrims visiting the spot. “When the central government decided in 1989 that ‘shilanyas’ (ground-breaking ceremony) will be undertaken some 25-30 ft away from the ‘janmabhoomi’, VHP members had travelled across the country collecting these bricks,” said VHP’s Avadh prant chief Sharad Sharma. “At least 2.75 lakh bricks were collected and brought to the VHP temple’s karyashala (workshop) in trucks. On November 9, 1989, when ‘shilanyas’ was done, around 50,000 of these bricks were used in the ceremony,” he added. The ceremony was performed with the permission of then Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi and a 10 ft long and 12 ft wide floor was made using 50,000 bricks which were filled in with concrete at the top. “The remaining 2.25 lakh bricks will be used in the temple’s foundation and other structures,” Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/collected-30yrs-ago-2l-sri-ram-bricks-to-form-temples-edifice/articleshow/77208696.cms||Yusra Husain
July 28, 2020||Kochi||HC asks bank to explain stand on education loan||Kochi: The high court on Monday asked Bank of India to explain why it is insisting for issuance of visa prior to payment of tuition fees to a foreign university. Normally, banks pay tuition fees to the university once admission is confirmed and much ahead of visa application. Justice N Nagaresh asked Bank of India to inform its stance after its counsel said that the stipulation for a valid visa is as per policy. The court is considering a petition filed through advocate Alexander Joseph. In April, the petitioner received an offer letter for admission for a masters programme at Trinity College Dublin in Ireland. On July 1, Bank of India’s branch at Spencer Junction in Thiruvananthapuram sanctioned a loan of Rs 20 lakh. The petitioner had made a fixed deposit of Rs 10 lakh and had furnished a collateral of property worth Rs 1.2 crore to the bank, as per the lawyer. If a loan is not taken, the petitioner had to hold the requisite funds in his account for a long period, he added. On July 4, the university directed for payment of tuition fee of 11,872 euros (around Rs 10.42 lakh). Conditions included that half of the total fee should be paid prior to applying for visa. However, the bank asked the petitioner to obtain a visa first if the fee was to be transferred to the university. The court will hear the case again on Thursday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-asks-bank-to-explain-stand-on-education-loan/articleshow/77206477.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Hospitals ignore protocol, cash in on Covid-19 wards||Hyderabad: In a bid to cash in on Covid cases, most private hospitals are not differentiating between Covid and non-Covid wards, increasing the chances of cross infection. While it may be one of the reasons for healthcare staff getting infected, experts suggest the government protocol of dedicated wings to reduce cross infection must be followed. With increasing patient load, hospital managements are offering more and more beds for Covid-19 treatment.“Since the number of suspect and confirmed Covid-19 patients is much more than patients of other ailments, hospitals want to press as many wards into Covid-19 service as possible. As hospitals have been reeling under losses for months now, it is natural for hospitals to allow maximum space for Covid wards now. Since setting up a Covid ward means additional space as each bed is required to be kept at least five to six feet apart, the available wards are being utilised,” a manager with a corporate hospital, speaking on condition of anonymity, said. Meanwhile, government hospitals were converted into either Covid (Gandhi Hospital, Chest Hospital and King Koti hospital) or non-Covid hospitals. At Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS), a separate building has been identified for housing healthcare workers who test positive. “The government should let large hospitals to set up dedicated centres for Covid-19 treatment. Having dedicated facilities will help contain the spread in hospitals, especially since a further spurt in cases is expected now,” Association of Surgeons of India president Dr P Raghuram told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hospitals-ignore-protocol-cash-in-on-covid-19-wards/articleshow/77207981.cms||Amrita Didyala
July 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19: Bengaluru’s muddled response has only added to burden||BENGALURU: Much like in Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, Karnataka’s capital city has accounted for the most number of cases and deaths in the state, only confirming projections by both government and independent agencies that had plotted the growth of the outbreak. Once lauded for its best practices, Bengaluru celebrated even before cases were set to peak and now stands exposed with its muddled management. Bengaluru reported a staggering 40,898 cases between July 1 and 26 and accounts for 50.5% of total cases (80,899) in the state as on Sunday night. Comparatively, on June 30 — although it still had most cases in the state — Bengaluru accounted for only 30% of the total (15,242) cases. The city also has 47% of the total deaths and 57% of active cases, as the pace of recovery has slowed. From inability to trace contacts to missing positive patients and allegations of misappropriation of funds in setting up of Covid Care Centres, management of the pandemic in the city has been disorganised at best. It has resulted in some knee-jerk decisions. Earlier this month, the government removed BH Anil Kumar from the post of BBMP commissioner and appointed N Manjunatha Prasad, who spent the past week setting “wrongs” right and putting in place new strategies and processes. Besides Prasad, management of the pandemic in the city is overseen by the CM, deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan, medical education minister K Sudhakar, eight other ministers, 30 officials (IAS and IPS) and a CM’s political secretary. Yet, the city’s management, if anything, has been pathetic when compared to the early days of the pandemic, which experts now say was on auto-pilot. Dr Giridhara R Babu, member, ICMR taskforce on research and surveillance and Karnataka Covid task force, said that while a lot is being done in Bengaluru, tracking patients, tracing contacts and treatment of critical patients should be paramount. Prasad, who had last week conceded that more than 3,000 patients are untraceable, has been working on increasing the number of beds and enhancing efficiency at each BBMP zonal offices. Notices have been served to dozens of private hospitals for not cooperating with the government, while the number of CCCs too has increased. Experts believe a lot is riding on the city and just how well Karnataka emerges from the pandemic — with a low fatality rate or one that’s high — will depend on how the pandemic is managed in Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengalurus-muddled-response-has-increased-the-burden-on-state/articleshow/77206479.cms||Chethan Kumar
July 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Govt land identified for burial of unclaimed bodies at GGH||Guntur: The mortuary at the Government General Hospital, packed with unclaimed bodies of Covid-19 victims, is being emptied. The district administration has identified a patch of government land near Obulanaidupalem on the outskirts of Guntur to bury the bodies. A decision has been taken to bury all bodies irrespective of religion as the kin are not coming forward to claim them. Eight bodies were moved out of the mortuary to the burial ground by special ambulances on Monday. A tehsildar has been deputed to oversee the burial operations. Sources said all unclaimed bodies would be buried in different pits which have been dug out on the patch identified for mass burial. In the absence of district collector Samuel Anand Kumar, joint collectors Dinesh Kumar and Prasanthi reviewed the situation with GGH authorities and decided to empty the mortuary. TOI had highlighted the issue of the mortuary getting packed with unclaimed bodies on July 25. Around 46 bodies were dumped in the mortuary, which has a capacity to accommodate 30. The district administration had not responded even after the forensic department, which manages the mortuary, brought the issue to light for several days. The GGH mortuary has been receiving at least four bodies of Covid-19 victims for the last several days resulting in the pile-up. According to sources, mortuary staff had threatened to withdraw from duties as it had become difficult for them to take the bodies inside due to the pile-up. The district administration has, however, decided to give the bodies to the relatives by providing PPE kits if they want to perform the final rites. With locals opposing the burial or cremation of such bodies in many places, it might be difficult for commoners to take the bodies even if the administration releases them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-land-identified-for-burial-of-unclaimed-bodies-at-ggh/articleshow/77206453.cms||Samdani MN
July 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to use bar codes for managing infectious biomedical waste: Minister||Chandigarh: The bar code system has been implemented in all government and private hospitals across the state to ensure scientific management of biomedical waste due to its hazardous and infectious nature, Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said on Monday. GPS tracking systems too have been installed in vehicles used to transport waste to the common biomedical waste treatment and disposal facility (CBWTF), he said, adding this mechanism is helping them prevent the spread of Covid-19. The health minister said as per the guidelines, a dedicated state advisory committee and district-level monitoring committees have been constituted in all the districts, which hold regular meetings to ensure management of biomedical waste. All CBWTF operators have been directed to ensure regular and timely collection of biomedical waste using bar code software from all healthcare facilities in accordance with the provisions of Biomedical Waste Management Rules, 2016 (amendments 2018 & 2019). Sidhu said the health department is tracking all the details/reports of daily biomedical waste generation and collection. The minister said liquid waste pre-treatment plant/ ETP/ STP were being installed in all district and sub-division hospitals. Complete disposal of waste hypo-fixer solution, developer and X-ray films generated in HCFs is also carried out through a proper channel as per the rules, he said. The smaller health facilities, including sub-centres, have been connected with the nearby hospitals for disposal of biomedical waste, he said, adding that all hospitals even the smaller ones are now connected with the CBWTF for disposal of such waste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-to-use-bar-codes-for-managing-infectious-biomedical-waste-minister/articleshow/77208057.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Most critically-ill women over 50 succumbing to Covid, finds study||BHOPAL: Women over 50 who are Covid-19 positive and critically ill are rarely recovering from the deadly infection in the main tertiary care hospital of the state capital. That said, a different trend has been emerging in the state capital for corona-related deaths. AIIMS-Bhopal indicates that those aged over 63 are more likely to die due to Covid-19. Overall, the fatality has hit younger and old in the same ratio. Bhopal has reported 5,314 Covid-19 cases, resulting in over 180 deaths, as per the state government stats. An impact of opening up of lockdown is that the virus has become more potent. Simply put, the logic holds weight. “Because people were moving out, there was more exposure to the virus. At the same time, the virus has got more potent,” said Gandhi Medical College (GMC) associate professor and pulmonologist, Dr Parag Sharma. He has been one of the most accurate predictors of the Covid-19 spread since the pandemic began. According to government sources, most Covid-19 intensive care units are working at 100% capacity in the state capital. Ventilators and non-invasive ventilation is required for most critically ill cases. “Earlier, the impact of the virus was almost 60:40, meaning men were more likely to die. In the past few weeks, another alarming trend has ensued. Once a woman’s health deteriorates to reach ventilator support, she does not make it back,” said Dr Sharma. Experts are looking over a scientific explanation for the same. AIIMS-Bhopal director Dr Sarman Singh, one of the lead microbiologists in India, countered the view. He cited the recovery of a 94-year-old woman at the premier institute. “Our analysis indicates that 63 is the average age of fatality in AIIMS Bhopal,” he explained. It illustrates that anyone over 63 is more likely to succumb to Covid-19. Meanwhile, going by the death analysis, the average number of deaths between age groups 30-44, 45-59, 60-74 and above is fairly even. About 1% to 3% of deaths due to Covid-19 were aged under 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/most-critically-ill-women-over-50-succumbing-to-covid-finds-study/articleshow/77208671.cms||Jamal Ayub
July 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana CM unleashing Covid on Congress leaders: Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka||HYDERABAD: Congress has charged chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao of conspiring to unleash coronavirus on party leaders raising voice against his government. Congress Legislature Party leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka on Monday said the vehicles being used by police to take into custody the protesting leaders were not sanitised. “The government should first sanitize the vehicles so that there is no scope of infection through police vehicles to the protesting opposition leaders. There is a scope of Congress leaders getting infected with Covid-19 from police vehicles in which they are being taken to police stations,” Bhatti fumed after he along with several Congress leaders were taken into custody on Monday. Police foiled ‘Çhalo Raj Bhavan’ rally of Congress to protest against BJP indulging in horse trading. TPCC working president and Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy said: “The BJP government at the Centre is misusing central agencies like the CBI, Enforcement Directorate, income tax to intimidate the opposition.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-unleashing-covid-on-cong-leaders-bhatti/articleshow/77208051.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh to add another 1,000 ventilators soon||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh is ahead in the fight against Covid-19 when compared to other states and the government is focused on increasing ICU-bed strength to face any emergency, said Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas (Alla Nani), deputy chief minister and minister of health and family welfare. Addressing a press conference here on Monday, Nani said 138 Covid-19 hospitals have bolstered their ICU-bed strength to 4,300. Around 17,370 non-ICU beds are available to quarantine patients, he said. “We are focusing on critical cases, which need ventilation. At present, we have 1,513 ventilators in the state and we have ordered another 1,000 ventilators. This move will help us provide better care for high-risk patients,” the minister said. He also asserted that the state government will help every Covid-19 patient in the state. “We have directed private hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients for free under YSR Aarogyasri scheme. We are spending around Rs 300 crore on it,” Nani said. Nani condemned allegations by former chief minister and TDP supremo N Chandrababu Naidu. “We are ahead of all states in performing tests. The number of cases is increasing as we are performing a large number of tests,” Nani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/state-to-add-another-1000-ventilators-soon/articleshow/77206485.cms||Venu Lanka
July 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Why overcharging pvt hosps getting off scot-free: HC to Telangana govt||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court took a serious view of the private hospitals getting away with exorbitant charging of patients and asked the state government to come up with a response on Tuesday. Stating that no one was reining in the errant private hospitals for reasons best known to them, the court on Monday said it would ascertain from chief secretary Somesh Kumar the reasons for the same. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing a batch of petitions filed by R Vatsan and others seeking state control over the fleecing ways of private hospitals which, they said, were exploiting people during the Covid-19 pandemic. The judges directed the state and central governments to furnish the guidelines placed by the Union health ministry before the Supreme Court in two days. “The area of controlling the private hospitals was completely left to the states which were asked to fix upper caps for treatment and tests in tune with the rates fixed in Ayushmanbhava scheme,” they said. Vasudha Nagaraj, counsel for the petitioner, urged the judges to ensure that Covid-19 care centers were located nearer to the containment zones. The judges told her that no one has a clue on where these containment zones in Hyderabad are located. “It is a big secret. No body follows our orders. We asked the authorities to reveal them. They have not done so far,” the judges said. Since the bench had earlier asked the CS to assist the court in the matter, the judges said they would like to know from him on Tuesday the status of several such related issues. The judges directed the state and central governments to furnish the guidelines placed by the Union health ministry before the Supreme Court in two days||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/why-overcharging-pvt-hosps-getting-off-scot-free-hc-to-govt/articleshow/77208012.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
July 28, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Pb dispatched 27 LMT wheat, 52 LMT rice to other states’||Chandigarh: The Punjab government dispatched 27 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) of wheat and 52.44 LMT of rice to various parts of the country to feed people in need amid the Covid-19 outbreak. Punjab food and supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said ever since the lockdown was enforced, Punjab has dispatched 2,831 rakes of food grains thereby transferring nearly 84.03 LMT of wheat and rice to different parts of the country through 2,831 special trains since March 24. “This is providing much needed assistance to she States to distribute food grains among disadvantaged sections of society,” he added. The minister said, “Living up to its reputation of being the food bowl of India, Punjab has been assisting all states in feeding its citizens.” He said 4.8 LMT of food grains were also dispatched to other states by road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-dispatched-27-lmt-wheat-52-lmt-rice-to-other-states/articleshow/77208063.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh CM to hold virtual cabinet meet from hospital on Tuesday||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan is as busy in hospital as a Covid-19 patient as he ever was. After a Monday chock full of Covid and law-and-order reviews, he is set to hold the first virtual cabinet meeting from his hospital bed on Tuesday. Specialists from AIIMS-Bhopal visited him at the private hospital he has been admitted to and said his health is stable. The CM was detected with Covid-19 on Saturday. According to government press release on Monday, a ‘trial run’ of the virtual cabinet meeting will be held at 9.30am on July 28. All ministers have been informed of the virtual cabinet. On Sunday, Chouhan reviewed the state’s Corona situation through video conferencing. “It is extremely important to seek the cooperation of public and social service institutions to contain Covid-19,” he said. “We need to transform the campaign against Coronavirus into a public movement to break the chain of infection. Apart from the government and administration, participation of general public, society and voluntary organizations should be ensured. Religious heads and heads of communities should be urged to appeal to citizens to generate awareness,” he said, ordering to increase testing. The CM reiterated the use of masks and warned of strict action against violators. Chouhan appealed to people to avoid using coolers and AC. “We must adopt safety measures to keep ourselves and our families safe from Covid-19. I am not using cooler or AC where I am under treatment,” he said. In his review of law and order, he said criminals must fear the law. “Deal with them strictly and do not give relaxation. The campaign being run in the state against criminals should be continued. The administration and police combined should give momentum to the campaign,” Chouhan said. He was told that 332 wanted criminals have been arrested in the past week and 1,000 bigha government land freed of encroachment in Agar-Malwa. Police have registered cases against 27 chit fund companies. The CM ordered police to ensure that chit fund companies return the money of the poor. Ministers Narottam Mishra, Bhupendra Singh and Vishwas Sarang, chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains and additional chief secretary Mohammad Suleman attended the video conferencing Chouhan was unhappy with the Covid arrangements at Sagar Medical College. Home minister Mishra proposed to hand over arrangements to a former dean of the medical college. Chouhan agreed and asked Sarang, minister for medical education, to take the decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-to-hold-virtual-cabinet-meet-from-hosp-today/articleshow/77208719.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Vijayawada||16 cops recover, rejoin duties||Tirupati: Around 16 policemen from Chittoor rejoined duties on Monday after recovering from Covid-19. Chittoor SP S Senthil Kumar felicitated the cops at the district police headquarters and urged them to extend support to plasma therapy. “Police personnel are risking their lives for the cause of the public and it is our duty to protect them. Those with comorbidity and also those above the age of 50 are being allotted functions with lesser public interface,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/16-cops-recover-rejoin-duties/articleshow/77206496.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Bareilly||Man prohibits people from taking drugs athis doorstep, attacked with knife & bricks||Bareilly: A man was allegedly thrashed and attacked with a knife and bricks by a group of four after he forbade them from taking drugs at his doorstep in Pital Basti area under Katghar police station in Moradabad. One of the accused, identified as Waseem, and his three accomplices attacked Rakesh Rastogi with a knife and bricks and fled the scene, leaving the victim severely injured, said police. In his complaint to police, Rastogi stated, “I requested them very politely to move away from my door since the children were at home. But, they attacked me with bricks and a knife and fled the area. I sustained severe head injuries.” Katghar police station SHO Gajendra Singh said, “The victim was given first aid at the district hospital. Raids were conducted in the area to nab the accused on Monday, but the only identified accused Waseem was missing from his house. An FIR was registered against the accused under section 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-prohibits-people-from-taking-drugs-athis-doorstep-attacked-with-knife-bricks/articleshow/77204022.cms||Maria Khan
July 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Family seeks clarity on Varavara’s health status, writes to Maha HM||Mumbai: The family of arrested Elgar Parishad accused, P Varavara Rao (79), on Monday wrote to state home minister Anil Deshmukh seeking transparency on information relating to his health. Rao is admitted to Nanavati hospital, where he is being treated for Covid-19 and other ailments. The family urged Deshmukh to direct Taloja jail authorities to provide updates on his health. “We hope you will understand the anxiety of a family that is kept in the dark for 12 days when a member is lodged in hospital in a grave condition,” the family said. The wife P Hemalatha and daughters P Sahaja, P Anala and P Pavana said it was their legal right to be updated. “It is also your duty to inform his family in case of any problem to his health, as per Charter of Patient Rights prepared by Union health and family welfare ministry,” the family said. The family wrote that on July 22, a jail staffer picked up their call and said the jail hospital may have information about Rao’s health. The family said they got no response when they tried to contact the jail hospital. “In response to our message, to the hospital authorities, we were informed on July 26 that hospital has been updating jail authorities regularly about his health.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/family-seeks-clarity-on-varavaras-health-status-writes-to-maha-hm/articleshow/77208060.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Lucknow||Hate, ire on social media over AKTU’s move to hold exams||Lucknow: Students of Dr APJ Kalam Technical University have reacted strongly against the decision to conduct three exams of engineering final year on the same day, flooding the social media with memes and tweets to voice their concern over the coronavirus pandemic. Some go so far as to post hate tweets, like the one asking everyone to wish the varsity’s vice-chancellor gets infected so the exam would be cancelled. AKTU has recently announced its decision to conduct final year examinations with all three exams the same day. Many students appear to be against the decision. “Are the engineering students a robot? Can they write three different examinations in a single day? Is it even feasible?” read a tweet from Apar Kaushik. AKTU’s posts regarding the foundation day celebration on its official Twitter handle and Facebook account were also flooded by students questioning the university over the logic of such an examination and demanding authorities to promote all, like in the case of students of other batches. Angry students have even posted hate messages, like a tweet from Raj Kumar saying, ‘Are Bhaiyo jab Vinay Pathak ji ko korona hoga tabhi exam cancel Hoga. (Only when vice-chancellor Prof Vinay Kumar Pathak gets infected by Covid-19 will the examinations be cancelled). So please everyone make a wish that he get infected soon (sic).” Students said conducting examinations on the same day won’t help as it cannot stop the virus from spreading. “For your information, the infection can spread in few seconds whether you conduct the examination in a day or two. So it’s anyway dangerous for us,” tweeted Deepika Garg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hate-ire-on-social-media-over-aktus-move-to-hold-exams/articleshow/77208755.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Chennai||Ignoring NGT orders yet again, Pallavaram municipality releases raw sewage into lake||Chennai: Nothing seems to stop Pallavaram Municipality from polluting Pallavaram lake. Orders from the National Green Tribunal (NGT), news reports, police complaints and public protests, all have gone unanswered in the past. The civic body, which functions under the state municipal administration department, has once again let raw sewage into the lake on Saturday and Monday. Videos shot by Pallavaram residents show that tractor-mounted motor pumps were used to discharge untreated sewage into the lake area, which is against environmental norms and court orders. Ironically, NGT Southern Zone members Justice K Ramakrishnan and Saibal Dasgupta had appointed the municipality as the nodal agency for the joint-committee constituted to prevent private operators from discharging sewage into the water body. “Whom do we go to and question when the municipality itself was violating the rule ? Such activities will affect the water and soil quality” asked David Manohar, a civic activist from Arappor Iyakkam. Municipal commissioner C Mathivannan continued to remain unresponsive. He neither commented when asked about another violation -- allowing fresh encroachments to come up at the lake -- spotted last week. Police, who got back to residents’ complaints about sewage, claimed that the act was legal as it was done by the municipality to clear a blockage in the nearby sewer lines and assured that the issue will be sorted out soon. The municipality hasn’t shown much progress in terms of clearing solid legacy waste (stored for years) as well. Photos clearly show large scale waste dumped in the lake. According to official data, the lake had 1.04 lakh cubic metres of legacy waste undisposed. This was almost half the volume of the Great Pyramid of Giza. Of this, only 3% (roughly 3,800 cubic metres) of waste was processed as of May through a bio-mining plant setup at Pallavaram. Erode-based private firm Zigma Global Environ Solutions that runs the plant claims their work was affected because of the lockdown and they have resumed in full swing now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ignoring-ngt-orders-yet-again-pallavaram-municipality-releases-raw-sewage-into-lake/articleshow/77208084.cms||Ram Sundaram
July 28, 2020||Bengaluru||Forget total cases, focus on active cases and deaths: Experts||Bengaluru: While cases in the state continue to surge exponentially, epidemiologists and experts have reiterated that the growing numbers should not be a worry and instead the focus must firmly be on prevention of deaths and treatment of severely infected patients. Citing experiences from previous pandemics, several experts TOI spoke with revealed the more a virus spreads, the less fatal it is likely to be. They said the government should focus on increasing the number of oxygenated beds and ensure patients who actually need ventilators and treatment in ICU have access to these facilities. “The gap between active cases and recoveries has increased and this will take a while to stabilise,” a member on the state’s task force said. “Through this difficult period, the focus must be on providing the right treatment to patients. The government must ensure private hospitals also offer beds promptly.” Dr MK Sudharshan, member, state Covid-19 task force, said the government must popularise home isolation, educate people on the virus and ensure hospital beds for those with respiratory problems and other symptoms. Those with symptoms and elderly must be tested within 24 hours and if positive (reporting delay included) must go to the hospital immediately, he added. Dr Giridhara R Babu, member, ICMR task force on research and surveillance and Karnataka’s Covid task force, said: “We need to definitely look at the distribution of mild and asymptomatic people being in hospital. Clinicians I’ve spoken to say there is widespread panic and many people, fearing they may not get one later, are trying to reserve oxygenated beds when there is absolutely no need. Dealing with this becomes crucial as cases spike. The government must also have granular data on patients that may need critical care.” Dr CN Manjunath, member, Karnataka Covid-19 task force, had earlier told TOI that generally, a pandemic spreads out for about six to seven months. “We have crossed about four months now and cases are expected to surge. An exponential surge in cases will see more deaths, which is why the focus must be on keeping fatalities in check. The ideal situation is to keep this rate at 1%,” he had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/forget-total-cases-focus-on-active-cases-and-deaths-experts/articleshow/77206508.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Gurgaon||Translators smuggle Covid medicines out of India, racket busted in Gurugram||GURUGRAM: Haryana police and the state drug controller on Tuesday busted two international drug smuggling rackets, both linked to each other, operating from residential houses in Gurugram and recovered 63 different kinds of medicines, including Remdesivir and Lopinavir that are used for treating Covid-19 patients, besides several for cancer, depression, epilepsy and other diseases. Five foreign nationals, including four Iraqi nationals and a woman from Uzbekistan, were arrested. All of them had been staying in India without any valid document, such as a passport or a visa. The four Iraqi nationals were working as translators with three prominent hospitals in the city. Two separate FIRs have been registered against the five accused under sections of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act and the NDPS Act at the Sector 40 and Sector 56 police stations. The accused were produced before the court and taken into police custody for further investigation. Police recovered a total of Rs 75 lakh in cash and a luxury vehicle during the two raids. The accused had stocked large quantities of medicines worth Rs 45 lakh in India (MRP price), which were supposed to be dispatched to Iraq on July 31 and sold there for Rs 3 crores (in Indian currency), police said. Investigators said the accused may have been involved in smuggling of medicines since some time, but the scale of operations had increased manifold due to scarcity of medicines in Iraq during the pandemic, during which people were ready to shell out more for the drugs. DSP (CID) Inderjeet Yadav said the first raid was conducted at Aloha Gurugram Group Housing in Sector 57 while the second took place at house no. 478/P in Sector 47. During the first raid, two Iraqi nationals, Aws Raad Nealmah Al-Hendi and Akram Faiz, were arrested and drugs, including cancer medicines, worth Rs 30 lakhs and Rs 35 lakhs in cash were found. The men did not have any receipt, licence or any other document related to the drugs. In the second operation, two Iraqi nationals, Mohnaad and Othamana A Aeed, and a woman from Uzbekistan, Nilu Far, were arrested. Large quantities of medicines used in the treatment of Covid-19 — Remdesivir (48 vials), Fabiflu (55 strips) and Lopikast (18 packs) — along with antibiotics, antacids, anti-allergic, antipyretic and other drugs for cancer and HIV, were recovered from them, said Amandeep Chauhan, drugs control officer, Gurugram. “The drugs include medicines used for treatment of Covid patients and were being illegally exported from India. These medicines are in short supply,” said Yadav. ACP (Sadar) Aman Yadav said Akram Faiz and Aws Raad had come to India on student visas in 2013. However, they stayed on even after expiry of their documents. Mohnaad and Othamana had come to India in 2017 as students too and continued living with documents. Nilu Far had come to India in January this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/translators-smuggled-covid-drugs-out-of-india/articleshow/77229295.cms||Bagish Jha
July 28, 2020||Bareilly||Man forbids people from taking drugs athis doorstep, attacked with knife & bricks||Bareilly: A man was allegedly thrashed and attacked with a knife and bricks by a group of four after he forbade them from taking drugs at his doorstep in Pital Basti area under Katghar police station in Moradabad. One of the accused, identified as Waseem, and his three accomplices attacked Rakesh Rastogi with a knife and bricks and fled the scene, leaving the victim severely injured, said police. In his complaint to police, Rastogi stated, “I requested them very politely to move away from my door since the children were at home. But, they attacked me with bricks and a knife and fled the area. I sustained severe head injuries.” Katghar police station SHO Gajendra Singh said, “The victim was given first aid at the district hospital. Raids were conducted in the area to nab the accused on Monday, but the only identified accused Waseem was missing from his house. An FIR was registered against the accused under section 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-forbids-people-from-taking-drugs-athis-doorstep-attacked-with-knife-bricks/articleshow/77204039.cms||Maria Khan
July 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Efforts on to plug breaches as floods hit over 24 lakh in 11 districts||PATNA: The number of flood-hit people in 11 north Bihar districts increased from 14.95 lakhs on Sunday to a whopping 24.43 lakhs in the last 24 hours as the engineers of water resources department (WRD) were trying to plug the breaches in the retired line embankment on the swollen Gandak at four places in Baikunthpur block of Gopalganj district. WRD is also on alert in West Champaran, Gopalganj and adjacent districts following downpour in the catchment area of Gandak in Nepal. Water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha said the discharge from Valmikinagar barrage in West Champaran is likely to surge from 2.20 lakh cusecs as on Monday evening up to 3.72 lakh cusecs in the next 48 hours. Jha conceded that Burhi Gandak and Bagmati rivers remained turbulent in Khagaria, Begusarai and Darbhanga districts. The Gandak, which flows into Bihar from Nepal, has breached its embankments at 10 places in Gopalganj (9) and East Champaran (1) districts. Three breaches were reported at two places in the Saran embankment of Gandak river in Baikunthpur block of Gopalganj district on Saturday. Earlier, breaches in the embankment of Gandak were reported at three more places last Thursday night — two in Gopalganj and one in East Champaran. WRD engineers at Patna claimed that efforts were on to plug the breaches. “Repair work is underway from both ends of the damaged embankments. Thankfully, the river current is not much, which is favourable for carrying out embankment restoration works,” a senior WRD official said. As per daily flood bulletin issued by WRD on Monday evening, Bagmati, Burhi Gandak, Khiroi and Adhwara group of rivers were flowing above the danger level. Except Burhi Gandak and Bagmati at a few places, most other rivers flowing in north Bihar were showing either receding or static trend. With regard to flood relief works, three helicopters of Indian Air Force airdropped food packets in the worst affected areas in Darbhanga, Gopalganj, East Champaran and Madhubani districts. Besides, 12.858 people were staying in 29 flood relief camps. Altogether 703 community kitchens were functional in different districts. Nitish: Keep vigil on embankments CM Nitish Kumar on Monday instructed water resources department secretary Sanjeev Hans to keep the engineers on alert mode on the embankments under pressure from floodwaters. He also issued a slew of instructions to principal secretary (disaster management) Pratyaya Amrit to ensure quality flood relief works, including better relief camps and sufficient number of community kitchens. He also asked him to ensure that all preventive norms with regard to Covid-19, including the distribution of free face masks, are adhered to in the relief camps. Nitish asked the WRD officials to keep flood fighting materials in sufficient quantity on embankments, so that emergency repair work could be carried out in any unforeseen circumstances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/efforts-on-to-plug-breaches-as-floods-hit-over-24l-in-11-dists/articleshow/77206528.cms||Piyush Tripathi
July 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Now, leash on fake plasma donors in Hyderabad from Down Under||HYDERABAD: City plasma seekers are getting help all the way from Down Under in weeding out fake donors. Cyber security student Ashish Paidewar from Melbourne has been preventing scamsters from duping vulnerable patients and their families. Ashish, a native of Nizamabad, says, “Covid crisis has hit the country hard. Every day, we see hundreds of requests for plasma donors on social media. Amid the chaos, it is hard to get genuine donors.” Without revealing figures, he says in Hyderabad, he has stopped dozens of conmen from taking advantage of the situation. The 24-year-old, who is pursuing Masters in Information Technology with specialisation in cybersecurity at Charles Sturt University, Melbourne, hardly sleeps for four hours these days. “With course work and my volunteer work to stop plasma fraud, I don’t get any time for sleep,” he says, but adds he is happy serving his country. Akhil Kumar, whose father has been admitted to a hospital in Secunderabad, said: “We needed plasma and put up a request on social media. We were contacted by one person who asked for travel costs. We transferred a small amount. When he demanded more, I got in touch with Ashish who told me not to transfer anymore money as the donor did not appear genuine.” Ashish says plasma donation system must be better regulated. “I am doing my best to safeguard people, but there are many fraudsters and patients must be careful,” he adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/now-leash-on-fake-plasma-donors-from-down-under/articleshow/77208070.cms||Uttara Varma
July 28, 2020||India||Lahore gurdwara to be made mosque?||NEW DELHI: India lodged a strong protest with the Pakistan high commission on Monday over reports that a gurdwara in Lahore is being converted into a mosque. Gurdwara Shahidi Asthan, the site of martyrdom of Bhai Taru Singh ji at Naulakha Bazaar in Lahore, has apparently been claimed as the location of Masjid Shahid Ganj. The MEA said Gurdwara Shahidi Asthan Bhai Taru Ji is a historical gurdwara where Bhai Taru Ji made the “supreme sacrifice” in 1745. The gurdwara is a place of reverence for Sikhs. “This incident has been viewed with grave concern in India. There have been calls for justice for the minority Sikh community in Pakistan,” said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava. India expressed its concerns in strongest terms, he said. Investigate, take remedial measures, India tells PakistanThe government said India has called upon Pakistan to investigate the matter and take immediate remedial measures. “Pakistan was also called upon to look after the safety, security, well-being of its minority communities, including protection of their religious rights and cultural heritage,” said the official. Watch India lodges strong protest with Pakistan High Commission over attempts to convert gurudwara in Lahore into mosque||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lahore-gurdwara-to-be-made-mosque/articleshow/77210319.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: School management removes parents from online classes’ WhatsApp group||MYSURU: Virtual chatrooms have become the new classrooms for students and teachers alike, with homes turning into schools as the world continues to reel under the Covid-19 crisis. Consequently, unlike earlier, parents now have an active role in the daily rigmarole of their kids’ education. However, the removal of parents from a WhatsApp group used by the teachers of a Mysuru school for online classes has stirred up a hornets’ nest. The move is being alleged as a reaction to the delay in the payment of the first instalment of their children’s school fee. The parents, on the other hand, have questioned the management’s decision to hike the fee by 5%, and further alleged exertion of pressure to ensure timely payment of the money. However, one of the representatives of the school’s management said that only those parents, who had paid the fee for only five months, had been removed from the group. “It is not possible to run the school without adequate funds,” he told TOI. However, the education department, taking exception with the attitude of the school management, subsequently had a cluster resource person (CRP) sent to the institution to issue a warning against exerting pressure on parents to pay the fee. “The school has agreed to adhere to the guidelines prescribed by the government,” said Mysuru south block education officer Shivakumar. On Monday morning, more than 30 parents were removed by the administrator of the WhatsApp groups, which had been created to engage children in co-curricular and extra-curricular activities. They were subsequently informed that the action had been taken owing to non-payment of fees. The parents are none too pleased with the hike in the fee, particularly when their kids are being imparted lessons on virtual platforms, which they are not very happy with. “There is too much noise during the online classes, and owing to network-related problems children are not learning much. But the school is insisting on payment of the entire fee. They hiked the fee, but are claiming to have waived it,” a parent said. The representative of the school management said that, fee had been waived off for three months keeping in view the impact that the pandemic has had on the economy. “But many parents are refusing to pay the fee even after the lapse of the due date,” he said. Deputy director of public instruction, Mysuru Panduranga said that he would ask for a report on the entire episode from the BEO concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/school-management-removes-parents-from-online-classes-whatsapp-group/articleshow/77203950.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Only 38% jr colleges apply for affiliation, 4L Inter seats at stake||Hyderabad: The 5.3 lakh SSC students promoted without exam this year may face a daunting task to secure Intermediate admission as only 38% (1,057) junior colleges have applied for affiliation as against 2,786 in 2019-20. Last date for college managements to apply for affiliation without late fee ended on July 25. There could be a drastic reduction in the number of seats if this trend continues. Of the 1,057 colleges, hardly 300 are said to be private colleges with the remaining being government colleges or those under the government sector. Last year, a total of 2,570 colleges including 1,486 private and corporate junior colleges were granted affiliation. “If the remaining 1,100 to 1,200 colleges fail to apply for affiliation this year, the seats will go down by at least 3.5 to 4 lakh seats,” said V Narender Reddy, president, Telangana Private Junior Colleges Management Association. He said that unless government does away with fire NOCs for colleges below 15 meters height, colleges will not be eligible to get affiliation. Until 2020-21, colleges with over 15 meters of height had to provide a NOC from the fire department for sanction of affiliation. However, in February 2020, it was made mandatory for colleges above 6 metres height to submit a NOC. “This rule is neither applicable for schools nor degree colleges. It is only for junior colleges and is against national building act. Government should withdraw the new rule. If not, colleges will have no option except to shut their shops and it will be a loss for students as there won’t be enough intermediate seats in the state,” said G Satish of TPJMA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/only-38-jr-colleges-apply-for-affiliation-4l-inter-seats-at-stake/articleshow/77208081.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
July 28, 2020||Mangaluru||Coast gets short shrift in Yediyurappa government’s one-year anniversary bash||Mangaluru: Chief minister B S Yediyurappa’ s interaction with select beneficiaries of several schemes to mark the first anniversary of his government saw Coastal Karnataka being left high and dry. The 10 beneficiaries that the government selected hailed from all geographical formations of the state including the recently christened Kalyana Karnataka region, except the coast. The programme in Bengaluru was live cast and shared on social media platforms. Defending the selection, Dakshina Kannada minister Kota Srinivas Poojary later told TOI the government has rightly focussed on the most backward regions of the state in trying to project the state government’s achievements to the masses. While there is apparent prosperity in these regions, they are mentally and physically at least 25-years behind the rest of the state in general and the coast when it comes to development indices, Kota surmised. Recalling his experience of having toured these districts during the recent by-polls to the state assembly, Kota said on the face of it, these regions have facilities that towns and villages in other parts of the state have. But when it comes to actual development, these districts have been hit by apathy of successive governments that have not invested as much faith and resources in improving their living condition and bringing them on par with the rest of the state. This aspect also figured in the address by Yediyurappa who said the government is committed to addressing regional imbalances that is abound in the state with the implementation of the Nanjundappa report. Kota pointed that the coast would get its due when the CM launches the World Fisheries Day scheduled to be held at Vidhana Soudha on July 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/coast-gets-short-shrift-in-yediyurappa-governments-one-year-anniversary-bash/articleshow/77205053.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 28, 2020||Mangaluru||PG surgeons to be deputed for Covid duty||Mangaluru: Fresh postgraduate surgeons, who are pursuing their respective specialised courses, will be deputed to fight the pandemic. The admission to PG courses have been delayed at least by three months as the counselling and other processes were hampered due to the lockdown. Manipal Academy of Higher Education has already commenced its PG first-year course, while other private medical colleges in the region are now receiving admissions. The admission will be done after the 15-day mandatory quarantine of all candidates arriving from different parts of the country. Dr Venkataraya Prabhu, dean of KMC (Mangaluru), said that with the PG course of the current academic year being delayed, the existing postgraduates are burdened with more work. The exams of final-year PG students have also been delayed. “As there is a need for doctors, we will depute freshly admitted PG students in the fight against Covid-19 in hospitals, including Wenlock. As many as 260 beds have been reserved for Covid-19 patients,” Prabhu said, adding that the services of PG surgeons from medicine and ENT are needed the most. “All freshly admitted PGs will be thoroughly trained before being deputed to Covid-19 wards,” he said. Dr Jayaprakash Alva, dean of Father Muller Medical College, said while MBBS interns and graduates look after fever clinics and quarantine facilities, some PGs, including new admissions, will be deputed to ICUs and other critical areas of Covid-19 duties. Farhad Yenepoya, pro-chancellor of Yenepoya (deemed to be) University, said that 70 new PG surgeons have joined this year. However, they will not be deputed to Covid-19 duties, he clarified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pg-surgeons-to-be-deputed-for-covid-duty/articleshow/77206183.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
July 28, 2020||Visakhapatnam||No dearth of beds in Visakhapatnam, assures administration as active cases rise||VISAKHAPATNAM: With Visakhapatnam district adding between 500 to 1,000 positive Covid-19 cases every day to its tally for over a week now, the requirement for beds has shot up. The district currently has over 5,500 active cases, far ahead of the number of discharged patients. District health officials have refuted the veracity of social media posts that claim there is a scarcity of beds and each bed is shared by two patients while they wait for other Covid-19 patients to be discharged. Officials said there are over 7,000 beds available in 33 hospitals, while alternate arrangements are underway to convert hostels, new government housing complexes and rope in other hospitals to enhance the number of beds. Special officer for Covid-19 (north-coastal AP) Dr PV Sudhakar said, “Currently we have 16 hospitals under category A entirely dedicated to treatment of Covid-19 positive cases. There are 17 hospitals, a section of which are being used for Covid-19 care for positive and suspected cases apart from non-Covid-19 cases. Around 7,000 beds are available plus over 5,000 beds are being readied at eight Covid Care Centres. The district administration has agreed to convert the new CSR block at King George Hospital (KGH) into a dedicated 500-bed Covid-19 facility. Also, we are adding to the Covid Care Centres mild, asymptomatic cases and expect some railway coaches to be converted to Covid-19 units as well.” Speaking to TOI, senior divisional commercial manager of railways, Waltair Division, G Suneel Kumar said, “We have made arrangement for housing 1,080 Covid-19 patients across six rakes stationed at Visakhapatnam (2), Vizianagaram (2), Srikakulam (1) and Raygada (1).” He added, “Each rake can accommodate 180 patients. These trains also have separate cabins for doctors and nurses. With active cases increasing, we expect the district administration to use the coaches soon for accommodating Covid-19 patients. After adding 100 beds, we have also sought permission of the district collector to nominate the Railway Hospital as a Covid hospital to treat all railway employees.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/no-dearth-of-beds-assures-admin-as-active-cases-rise/articleshow/77206579.cms||Sulogna Mehta
July 28, 2020||Kolkata||High-capacity test labs on West Bengal CM's mind||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has urged the Prime Minister to help Bengal set up a high-throughput laboratory like the state-of-the-art ICMR laboratory in Kolkata to ramp up testing of Covid swab samples in the state. “I thank the PM for setting up ICMR labs in Kolkata, Mumbai and Noida. NICED will be running the lab and it will be of help for the state. I would urge the PM to help the state set up such labs so that the state can increase testing on its own,” the CM said during the virtual inauguration of the three labs, having a capacity of testing 10,000 samples a day. During the inauguration, PM Narendra Modi said the ICMR lab can also be put to use for testing samples for hepatitis B, C, HIV and dengue. The CM apprised the PM of how Bengal has set up testing labs beginning with only one at the initial stage. “We began with one testing lab, which is why the testing rate was relatively low in the state. We increased the strength over the months and now we have 56 labs. But 26 of them are small with a testing capacity of 30 samples a day. We are now testing 16,000 samples every day and have plans to take it to 25,000 by August 15,” the CM said. Mamata pointed out that there was nothing to get afraid of the Corona graph in Bengal. “Only 5% of the patients are serious. They have comorbidities. The recovery rate of patients is around 65%,” the CM said. Banerjee then presented the clinical profile of the patients, dividing them under three broad categories — those with severe acute respiratory infections (SARI), those having mild symptoms (fever, dry cough, tiredness) and patients with comorbidities. “The problem is with SARI patients. Our Asha workers have identified them by making 30 crore visits to 2.5 crore households across the state,” the CM said. Mamata informed the PM that Bengal is the only state to offer free treatment to Covid patients. “We have 81 government facilities and have roped in some private hospitals where treatment is given for free. This apart, we have set up 106 safe homes. We have set up tele-medicine facilities, 24x7 call centres for the distressed. We have also set up a plasma bank,” the CM said. The CM pointed out that the state has already spent Rs 2500 crore while it has got just Rs 125 crore from the Centre under the National Health Mission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/high-capacity-test-labs-on-cm-mind/articleshow/77206494.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Hyderabad||Five-year-old Telugu boy raises Rs 3.7 lakh for Covid fight, wows UK MPs||HYDERABAD: Elected representatives in the UK are making a beeline to meet Telugu boy Aneeshwar Kunchala after he helped raise Rs 3.7 lakh for India’s fight against Covid-19 recently. The five-year-old boy started a campaign ‘Little pedallers Aneesh and his friends’ on May 27. He was joined by 60 other children in cycling 3,200 km. Donations poured in from across the globe, including the US and India. The five-year-old had also started a cricket challenge earlier to support the National Health Service. A few days ago, Aneeshwar whose parents hail from Chittoor, Andhra Pradesh, was paid a visit by MP Andy Carter from Warrington South. After meeting the young boy, the MP posted on social media: “I was so pleased to meet a young boy from Warrington who has taken it upon himself to raise funds for Covid-19 response… what a fantastic achievement.” Speaking to TOI, Aneeshwar said: “I am happy to meet Andy and would like to do tons of challenges like these to help doctors and also fight against Covid-19.” Another MP Charlotte Nichols will be meeting him on August 6. Aneeshwar also spoke to British deputy high commissioner to Telangana and Andhra Pradesh Andrew Fleming, who congratulated him on his feat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/5-yr-old-telugu-boy-raises-rs-3-7l-for-covid-fight-wows-uk-mps/articleshow/77208075.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Mangaluru||Ballari’s super-surge pushes DK to third spot on Covid-19 table||Mangaluru: Ballari’s super-surge of 840 fresh cases pushed Dakshina Kannada off the number two spot on Karnataka’s Covid-19 pedestal on Monday. While this surge took the total number of positive cases in Ballari to 4,930, the 119 cases that DK recorded on the day meant its tally was 4,925. Udupi on the other hand recorded 225 new cases to take its total positive cases to 3,612 and the coastal districts combined for 344 cases on the day. While there was small respite for DK in terms of positive cases that were 80 less than Sunday, there was no let up on Covid-19 related deaths with eight more succumbing to co-morbidities on the reporting day, taking the total to 115 including two deaths due to non-Covid reasons. While four of the victims with comorbid conditions died on July 23, one died on July 25 and three on July 26, deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said. One of the victims, a 68-year-old male was from Hubballi, other, a 65-year old male from Bantwal and the third, an 82-year-old man from Udupi and rest were from Mangaluru. Five of the eight succumbed while being treated for their terminal stage illness at private hospitals and the rest in the district Wenlock Hospital, the designated Covid-19 hospital. The oldest of these was a 92-year-old man from Mangaluru who was admitted on July 18. Primary contacts at 46 cases contributed to majority of the 119 reported cases, while 34 were diagnosed as suffering from influenza like illness (ILI). The source of how 33 others contracted the disease is being traced and six were categorised as suffering from severe acute respiratory infection. The discharge of 80 patients during the day meant that the district’s active cases stood at 2,502 and the total number of those discharged so far was 2297, Sindhu added. Active cases in Udupi with the discharge of 51 patients on the other hand went up to 1,415 and the total number of those discharged to 2184. Amidst the surge, DC G Jagadeesha who reviewed preparations for CET scheduled for July 30 and 31, said safety measures will be taken to ensure hassle free experience for 3,912 registered candidates at 10 exam centres. The SOP issued by KEA will be implemented in toto, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/ballaris-super-surge-pushes-dk-to-third-spot-on-covid-19-table/articleshow/77206973.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 28, 2020||Mangaluru||Govt mum on overcharging pvt hospitals: Ex-MLC||Mangaluru: Dakshina Kannada District Congress Committee’s (DCC) Covid Helpline chairman Ivan D’Souza lambasted the government for allegedly not providing proper facilities in government hospitals. Ivan, a former MLC, said on Monday that the government has utterly failed in Covid-19 management in the state. “Government hospitals have no proper facilities to treat Covid-19 patients. Patients are dying due to lack of ventilators, and beds in ICUs,” he said. “Meanwhile, private hospitals are charging Covid-19 patients exorbitantly. A private hospital in Belagavi charges Rs 35,000 - Rs 50,000 for a semi-private ward and Rs 50,000 – Rs 65,000 for a private room per day. Hospitals charge up to Rs 75,000 per day for deluxe rooms. The government and health minister keep mum even when private hospitals exploit the poor. Will private medical colleges reserve beds for Covid-19 patients in this circumstance?” he said. On facilities in Dakshina Kannada, Ivan said the district also facing shortage of ventilators. “The government should sanction more ventilators for Wenlock District Hospital, where Covid-19 cases are admitted. The district needs at least 50 more ambulances and 10 should be reserved for Mangaluru,” he said. On Covid-19 deaths in Dakshina Kannada, Ivan said the report on reasons for deaths from the district level expert committee should be made public. He urged the government to make provisions for close relatives to take part in the funerals of Covid-19 victims. “The central government’s guidelines allow people to see the body of Covid-19 victims following precautions,” he said. A team of 50 volunteers of DCC’s Covid Helpline has been functioning to help patients and conduct the last rites of victims, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/govt-mum-on-overcharging-pvt-hospitals-ex-mlc/articleshow/77205580.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Lucknow||Cases see slight dip but Lucknow still tops UP's corona tally||LUCKNOW: The city continued to record highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state with 312 more people testing positive on Monday. There was some relief, however, as the daily count came down after notching 400-plus figures for two consecutive days, but the number of patients getting cured in last 24 hours also dropped to 20 after record 482 and 580 recoveries on Saturday and Sunday respectively. The city is ahead of other districts in state, both in terms of new cases and overall tally, including active patients. The new cases pushed the city tally to 6,620 since outbreak, of which 3,491 are battling infection at present, while 3,043 have recovered, though 86 could not survive. Ten cops, including six civil police personnel posted at Chinhat police station, two deployed at other places and a jawan of central police force testing positive, said sources in CMO office. Six UPSRTC employees, three each from Alambagh and Aishbagh bus stations, also tested positive, taking the number of roadways employees infected by thr virus in two days to 16. Administrative block and engineering section of Baba Saheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University (BBAU) were closed for sanitisation after an employee and security guard posted there were found infected, said university spokesperson Rachna Gangwar. A section of the directorate of basic education at Nishatganj was also asked to closed down for 24 hours for sanitization after two employees tested positive. All other employees are also being tested, said officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cases-see-slight-dip-but-city-still-tops-state-corona-tally/articleshow/77208810.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Insurer ordered to pay for treatment in UK||AHMEDABAD: The consumer court has ordered an insurance company to pay medical expenses to a person for treatment he availed for a stroke in UK, after the company refused to pay on the grounds that the consumer had suppressed information that he was a diabetic. The Gujarat State Consumer Dispute Redressal Commisison said that the insurance company – Bajaj Allianz General Insurance – was not able to establish that the brain stroke that its customer from Surat, Hasmukhlal Parekh, suffered during his UK trip was actually caused by diabetes. Hence, Parekh not revealing that he was diabetic while obtaining the mediclaim policy was not a condition on the basis of which medical expenses could be denied to him. The commission upheld the Surat District Consumer Dispute Redressal Forum’s order to the insurer to pay Rs 3.5 lakh to Parekh. In this case, Parekh had to go to UK trip in March 2009 for three months and he obtained a mediclaim policy for four months covering $50,000 and paid Rs 2,227 towards the premium. On April 24, 2009, Parekh suffered a stroke after morning walk. He was admitted to the Central Manchester University Hospital, which treated him after the insurance company granted approval of cashless payment. In July 2009 after Parekh’s return to India, the hospital sent him a bill of £ 4,285 saying that he was liable to pay it. Parekh came to know that the insurer refused to pay the bill on the grounds that he had not disclosed that he was a diabetic for the last 15 years while obtaining the policy. When the dispute was heard in the consumer courts, Parekh’s advocates argued that he had not disclosed his disease, but the insurance company did not establish any connection of the present ailment with diabetes. The consumer courts also accepted that the insurance company could not establish that Parekh’s stroke was caused due to his diabetic condition. And since there was no direct nexus established between stroke and diabetes, the insurer was liable to bear treatment expenditure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/insurer-ordered-to-pay-for-treatment-in-uk/articleshow/77208167.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad civic authorities close Jamalpur APMC, Gujari bazaar||AHMEDABAD: Two markets in the old city, APMC Jamalpur and the Gujari bazaar in the walled city have been closed by the civic administration, allegedly because there was a lack of social distancing and people were even seen without masks. Street vendors at Bhadra have also not resumed operations. On Sunday morning, an Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) arrived at the spot and threatened to seize all vendors’ goods if they did not clear the Gujari bazaar, on the eastern bank of the Sabarmati near to take away their goods if they did not clear Gurjari market situated on the eastern bank of the Sabarmati near Ellisbridge, after reports said that no social distancing was maintained and people were seen without masks. At the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Jamalpur yard, vegetable dealers were told to resume operations due to fears of the virus spreading. Traders at Jamalpur had been told operations would resume from June 27, but were later told that they would have to shift to the Jetalpur yard. “We were told that the Jamalpur market would open from July 15, but the authorities now say July 30. From the Gujari bazaar scenario, it does not seem that the Jamalpur market will open from August 1,” said an office-bearer of the APMC traders association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/civic-authorities-close-jamalpur-apmc-gujari-bazaar/articleshow/77208153.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Indore||Man, two sons booked for land fraud||Indore: Banganga police have registered a fraud case against a man and his two sons for failing to give possession of a house sold by them in Durga Nagar area to two families. The trio— Ashok Kuchekar, Gagan Kuchekar and Sandeep Kuchekar had sold the house for Rs11.51 lakh to Shubham Sahu. They collected the money for house, but never gave possession to him. Also, they failed to return the money also, said police. Later, the victim approached police and a fraud case was registered against them, police said. However, the accused didn’t stop there. They re-sold the house to one Anita Surange and Harishankar Surange and defrauded them too. Another complaint of fraud was registered against the trio and they are on the run since then, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/man-two-sons-booked-for-land-fraud/articleshow/77208154.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Patna||Bihar Covid tally crosses 41,000-mark with 2,192 new cases||PATNA: Covid-19 cases crossed the 41,000 mark in Bihar on Monday with 2,192 fresh cases reported in 24 hours, taking the tally to 41,111. The state also registered six official deaths, including two from Patna, taking the toll to 255. The number of active cases now stand at 13,010. Around 30,000 of the over 41,000 cases registered so far came in July alone with three more days to go for the month to end. According to the state health department data, Covid-19 tally on July 1 stood at 10,075, which has seen a four-fold jump in the past four weeks. Apart from the two deaths in Patna on Monday, one death each was reported from Banka, Bhagalpur, Nalanda and Rohtas. The day's maximum number of Covid-19 cases came from Patna where 437 people tested positive for coronavirus, taking the district’s tally to 7,067. However, with 4,171 recoveries and the death toll reaching 39, active cases stand at 2,857 in Patna. Other districts which reported a large number of Covid-19 cases are Supaul (78), Bhojpur (77), West Champaran (76), Gaya (74), Rohtas (69) and Muzaffarpur (64). Altogether 28 Covid-19 positive patients were admitted to AIIMS-Patna from various Patna localities such as Khajpura, Malahi Pakri, Patel Nagar, Boring Canal Road, Raja Bazaar, Jay Prakash Nagar, Phulwarisharif and Anandpuri, while 19 patients were discharged after getting cured. AIIMS Covid-19 in-charge Dr Sanjeev Kumar said three deaths at the hospital were reported on Monday, including a Krishna Nagar resident and two Vaishali natives. He said two newborns who had tested positive on Sunday were doing well. No death was reported from the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital on Monday. However, the hospital’s epidemiologist-cum-nodal officer Dr Mukul Kumar Singh said that altogether 158 patients are undergoing treatment at NMCH of whom 39 were admitted on Monday. Dr Mukul said 38 patients are in ICU while 128 are on oxygen. As per information shared by the state health department, 14,236 samples were tested in the past 24 hours and so far more than 4.7 lakh samples have been tested. The department stated that 1,536 people have recovered in the past 24 hours, taking the total recoveries to 27,844 and the recovery rate now is 67.7%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-covid-tally-crosses-41k-mark-with-2192-new-cases/articleshow/77206623.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 28, 2020||Bengaluru||K’taka Covid cases breach 1L: 50k in 128 days, another 50k in 11 days||Karnataka’s total Covid-19 caseload crossed the 1-lakh mark on Monday, with the trajectory from the first reported patient taking 139 days. Of 1,01,465 infections reported so far, a whopping 86,223 were added in July, at a rate of 3,193 cases a day on average. In the past five days, the daily average has been more than 5,000. From taking as many as 128 days to reach 50,000 cases on July 16, Karnataka reached double that number in just 11 days. Most of these 1 lakh cases are in Bengaluru, which has 46,923 cases in all. While the state reported a spike of 5,324 cases on Monday, 1,470 cases were from the capital city. The state’s toll from the pandemic is nearing 2,000. Of the 1,953 Covid-related deaths reported so far, 917 are from Bengaluru. The caseload puts Karnataka in a group of five states, including Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Andhra Pradesh which too crossed the 1-lakh milestone on Monday, but in fewer days. While Karnataka had a slow start and has taken longer to reach the mark, the rise has been rapid in the past month or so — a pattern that public-health experts say is linked to increased testing as well. At the start, Karnataka’s battle against Covid focused on closing public places, restricting vehicular movement, and enforcing institutional quarantine. Citizens must take responsibility: ExpertAs dozens of cases began to be reported, tracing and tracking systems were boosted to isolate contacts and suspected patients. Travel history proved to be a vital clue to the spread of infection in the initial days. However, since cases began to spiral from three to four digits, tracing collapsed and the strategy moved towards more testing, effective treatment protocol and increasing the number of beds. Although the first case was reported as early as March 9, it was only on May 15 that the tally crossed 1,000. The state ended May with 3,221 cases, 2,664 of which were added in that month. Then came the steady influx of workers returning from other states, which continued up to June, carrying the virus with them. Between May 27 and June 3, the state added 1,513 patients, 86% of whom had returned from other states. Travellers from Maharashtra alone accounted for 82% of the cases. By end-June, the total cases stood at 15,242, which was a 373% increase from the end of May. The next 27 days have seen an increase of 466% “We have increased testing significantly. Now, our focus is on timely care and admission of sick patients,” said Dr CN Manjunath of the state’s Covid-19 task force. Urging citizens to take responsibility, Manjunath said there has to be more awareness on the need for social distancing and wearing of masks. “I think we must even look at prohibiting inter-state and interdistrict movement,” he said. Karnataka also grapples with recoveries. As on Monday, 61% or 61,819 of the total cases are active, and 598 of them are in the ICU. Dr Giridhar Babu, member of ICMR task force on research and surveillance and Karnatak Covid task force, explained that the dip in the pace of recovery indicates an increase in the rate of acute cases, which need medical intervention and take longer to recover. “We have to ensure patients are brought to ICU care in the moderate stage itself. If we wait longer, our fatality rate will increase,” Manjunath said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-covid-cases-breach-1l-50k-in-128-days-another-50k-in-11-days/articleshow/77206617.cms||Chethan Kumar
July 28, 2020||Agra||LAC standoff no deterrent for these Chinese students keen on learning Hindi||AGRA: The border tensions between India and China have proven no deterrent for Chinese scholars keen on learning Hindi. Continuing the trend set over several years, at least six Chinese students have applied for admission to a 10-month diploma in Hindi language offered by the Kendriya Hindi Sansthan (Central Institute of Hindi) in Agra. Officials said the numbers are likely to rise as the admissions are open till mid-August. In 2019, six students had enrolled for the course and the number stood at five each in 2018 and 2017. The diploma course — which has 100 government-funded seats for foreign students — has been running for the past 48 years. This year, amid the Covid-19 outbreak, 80 applications have poured in from 19 countries. The applications are from Sri Lanka, Thailand, China, Bulgaria and African countries. KHS director Nand Kishore Pandey said the institute has not received any specific directions from the Centre that would bar admission of Chinese students. The international students at KHS are provided free hostel and mess facility. Their return airfare is also paid for by the government. Officials said they expect more applications this year since the last date to apply for admission has been extended from July 20 to August 14. Professor Devendra Shukla who spent three years in China’s Peking University teaching Hindi to Chinese students told TOI that several universities in China are now teaching Hindi. “Cultural relations between the two countries and requirement of Hindi for business correspondence are among factors behind popularity of the language,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/lac-standoff-no-deterrent-for-these-chinese-students-keen-on-learning-hindi/articleshow/77205125.cms||Deepak Lavania
July 28, 2020||Lucknow||LU ex-staffer, three others die of Covid||Lucknow: Four more elderly Covid-19 patients, including a retired Lucknow University employee, admitted to hospitals in the late stage of their illness, died on Monday, taking the city’s toll to 86 since the outbreak and 66 in July so far, with an average of two deaths daily. In all the cases, the infection had severely damaged lungs of the patients. The 81-year-old retired LU employee was admitted to Integral Institute of Medical Science and Research in a critical state and low oxygen levels on July 25. His three sons are also employed in LU and the family resides in employees quarters on the campus. On July 14, two employees, who also lived on the campus, had tested positive. In KGMU, a 72-year-old Nirala Nagar resident (72) died within 10 hours of being admitted with complaints of breathlessness and high blood pressure, while another 63-year-old patient, who also had chronic renal disease, died within 13 hours of admission due to septicemic shock. A 67-year-old Triveni Nagar resident died at Era’s Lucknow Medical College due to lung failure after battling with Covid-19 for seven days. Meanwhile, two more patients, a 70-year-old man from Unnao and a 65-year-old from Basti died at KGMU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-ex-staffer-three-others-die-of-covid/articleshow/77208828.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Bareilly||To manage expenses of girlfriends, gang of MBA student, gym owner, trainee teacher go on robbery spree, four held||Bareilly: Taking a leaf out of Bollywood flicks, an MBA student, a basic training certificate (BTC) course student, a rice mill staffer and a gym owner — all in their 20s and all coming from affluent families based in Pilibhit — came together and formed a gang, and went on a robbery spree astride modified bikes in several districts of western Uttar Pradesh to meet the expenses of their girlfriends and maintain a lavish lifestyle. Their robbery streak was, however, broken by police who arrested all of them from Khuthar area of Shahjahanpur district and seized 17 mobile phones, jewellery and cash from them. The gang used to commit robberies near district borders and would cross the border in no time on their modified bikes to dodge police, who impounded two motorcycles — one of the bikes was stolen from Bareilly a few months ago — from them, said police. Police identified the accused as Hariom, alias, King, Mintu Kumar, Shyam Singh and Tanuj Pandit — all of them were booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and sent to jail. Two members of the gang were on their way to Pilibhit district after robbing a cyclist of a mobile phone and cash in Khuthar on Sunday evening, but Khuthar station house office (SHO) Jai Shankar Singh, following a tip-off, had deployed a police team on the district border and the duo was arrested after a brief encounter. During interrogation, said the SHO, the accused disclosed about their hideout in Khuthar, following which police arrested two other gang members and seized 17 mobile phones and Rs 20,000 cash from them. Explaining their modus operandi, the SHO told TOI, “King, who is pursuing BTC course from Meerut, is the leader of the gang. They would commit robberies astride two modified bikes — one of which we have impounded —near district borders and flee the spots at very high speed.” “The accused accepted to have committed nearly 50 robberies in Bareilly, Lakhimpur Kheri, Pilibhit and Shahjahanpur districts. They would spend the money on their girlfriends and go on holidays with them. The accused have been active for nearly a year, but their families are clueless about their activity. We will seek their custody to recover more stolen articles,” added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/to-manage-expenses-of-girlfriends-gang-of-mba-student-gym-owner-trainee-teacher-go-on-robbery-spree-four-held/articleshow/77204065.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||73% of patients discharged||Ahmedabad: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Monday added 1,052 new Covid-19 positive cases, taking the state tally to 86,874. It was the state’s seventh consecutive day of 1,000 plus daily cases as Gujarat added 7,435 cases in a week at an average of 1,062 a day. The new cases include 258 from Surat, 184 from Ahmedabad, 96 from Vadodara, 74 from Rajkot and 30 from Surendranagar. The state also recorded deaths of 22 Covid-19 positive patients in 24 hours, taking the death toll to 2,348. The deaths include nine from Surat, four from Ahmedabad, three from Vadodara, two from Patan and one each from Bhavnagar, Junagadh, Mehsana and Panchmahal. A total of 1,015 patients got discharged in Gujarat, taking the total to 41,380. It’s the third time ever that the daily discharges have crossed the figure of 1,000-plus in the state. With the update on Monday, the state now has 13,146 active patients, which is 23.1% of the total patients recorded so far. The share of deceased and discharged patients is 4.1% and 72.8% respectively. As of Monday, the state had 81 patients on ventilator. Gujarat carried out 25,474 tests in 24 hours to find new cases, taking the total to 6.67 lakh. The state health department claimed that it’s conducting 392 tests daily per 10 lakh population. As on Monday evening, Gujarat had 4.73 lakh persons under quarantine, out of which 4.71 lakh were under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/73-of-patients-discharged/articleshow/77208172.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Delhi||Ramp up testing that shows accurate results: Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: With Delhi testing only 50% of its RT-PCR capacity of 11,000 per day and rapid antigen testing (RAT) throwing up a high rate of false negative results, the high court asked the AAP government on Monday why it was not ramping up the “gold standard test” as per the guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad took note of the preliminary findings of Delhi’s first round of serological tests conducted by National Centre For Disease Control (NCDC) that showed over 22% of population had the virus without even realising it or due to false negatives. The bench said the surveillance had shown wide prevalence in certain areas where accurate testing needs to be ramped up, for which RT-PCR should be the front line test. The high court is hearing a plea for increasing testing numbers in the national capital and getting speedy results from laboratories/hospitals. The court pointed out that approximately 11,000 tests through RT-PCR could be conducted on a daily basis in 54 assigned private and public sector laboratories. According to the AAP government’s submission, the daily count between July 15 and 23 is below 6,000. “In other words, almost 50% capacity of RT-PCR tests is not being conducted in Delhi. The focus seems to be mainly on testing through RAT whereas RT-PCR is the gold standard test,” the bench observed. According the government’s status report, during the same period, 1,21,950 rapid antigen tests have been conducted, while the RT-PCR count is 47,276. The court also took on record the stand of NCDC director Dr Sujeet Singh who said the prevalence of cases from the sero report indicated that higher the density of population in a district, larger the number of cases of Covid-19 infection. As a short-term measure, NCDC recommends increasing tests through the RT-PCR mode, the bench pointed out. According to the NCDC director, for those admitted or proposed to undergo surgical/non-surgical procedures in hospitals, RAT should be followed for faster results to expedite treatment. Nivedita Gupta, an ICMR scientist, clarified to the high court that it was never the council’s stand that RT-PCR tests be replaced with RAT. The ICMR advisory, she added, is to conduct RAT in containment zones/hotspots and healthcare settings. On Monday, it also emerged that the AAP government had included severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) in its list of high-risk group individuals who have to first undergo RAT. Delhi government’s additional standing counsel, Satyakam, told the bench that the health department was strictly adhering to the ICMR guidelines, which say people testing negative for RAT but showing influenza like illness (ILI) have to undergo RT-PCR. But the ICMR scientist maintained that RAT was not required to be conducted on patients suffering from SARI and they were to be tested directly through RT-PCR. The high court then ordered Delhi government to amend its earlier orders and remove any reference to patients admitted with SARI to undergo RAT. Delhi government must “strictly” follow the guidelines on Covid-19 testing as issued by ICMR and not according to its own interpretation, it pointed out. The high court bench asked ICMR to place before the court its next advisory, in view of the sero survey, on testing strategy and listed the matter for further hearing on August 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ramp-up-testing-that-shows-accurate-results-hc/articleshow/77208157.cms||Abhinav Garg
July 28, 2020||Indore||DAVV to write to DHE seeking clarity over online exam||INDORE: Devi Ahilya Vishwavidyalaya (DAVV) has now planned to wait for guidelines of directorate of higher education (DHE) to conduct online examination for the final year students of affiliated colleges. Though chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had tweeted about his decision of online examination for final year/semester undergraduate and postgraduate students, the exam department of DAVV want clarity. “It’s not specified whether the tweet is for the University Teaching Department (UTD) or the affiliated students. In case of UTD, we have already planned to conduct online exam. But, it would be extremely difficult for us to conduct exam for students of affiliated colleges,” DAVV exam controller Dr Ashesh Tiwari told TOI.  There are over 80,000 final year and semester students of various undergraduate and post graduate programmes, he added. The varsity has decided to write to the DHE seeking clarity over the tweet and the guidelines too to conduct the examination for student of affiliated colleges.  The varsity had already conducted examinations of 80% subjects and only 20% subjects are remaining for the final year/ semester students of affiliated colleges. As per the University Grants Commission (UGC), the varsities and colleges need to complete the examination by the end of September.  While DAVV has already planned to conduct the examination of UTD students from the first week of August via online mode in an open book format, the varsity is waiting to seek clarification from the DHE regarding the students of affiliated colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/davv-to-write-to-dhe-seeking-clarity-over-online-exam/articleshow/77208161.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Hubballi||NGO, Bidar district administration save woman and her twin babies||BIDAR: A Covid woman pregnant with twins, who couldn’t afford treatment at a private hospital in Mumbai, was saved by an NGO and the Bidar district administration. The mother and babies are currently doing well in hospital. The patient, who had hypertension, arrived in Bidar on July 23 after a hospital in Mumbai quoted Rs 8 lakh as the cost of treatment and delivery. As residents of Halliked (B) in Humnabad were against the woman coming there, her husband contacted the NGO Team Yuva which arranged for the family to be isolation at a roadside dhaba near the village. Dhammapal, a member of the NGO, said: “Her relatives contacted me seeking shelter for the family as they feared the wrath of villagers.” The family was put up at a dhaba owned by Dhammapal’s friend. He then told his seniors about the issue and they informed Bidar assistant commissioner Akshay Shridhar. On July 24, Sridhar sent an ambulance to take her home and then to the Bidar Institute of Medical Sciences where doctors first controlled her high blood pressure. District surgeon Dr Ratikant Swamy monitored the case and after a discussion, the doctors decided to conduct a C-section to deliver twins (boy and girl) on July 25. Swamy said the babies are fine and will undergo a Covid test on July 30. They are now with their mother as they need breast milk, he added. The woman’s husband said he’s grateful to the NGO and district administration and praised the doctors for their timely action. Vinay Malge, head, Covid volunteer task force and founder of Team Yuva said the incident highlights the need for volunteering during pandemic to save lives. He added that rather than blaming the health system, it is important to coordinate among people to fight the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/ngo-bidar-district-administration-save-woman-and-her-twin-babies/articleshow/77206643.cms||Shreyas HS
July 28, 2020||Agra||No commercial electricity connection without approved building map, says ADA||Agra: To put a tab on unauthorized construction, the Agra Development Authority (ADA) board has decided not to allow commercial electricity connection to properties not having a building map approved by it. The ADA administration is going to send a letter to the power distribution companies over it. According to an official estimate, there are 22,000 illegal constructions in the city. ADA secretary RP Tripathi said, “Following complaints of illegal constructions taking place in the city, the ADA has decided not to allow commercial electricity construction in absence of the approved building map. This will ensure that properties illegally developed are not used for a commercial purpose”. According to sources, the maximum illegal constructions in Agra city are in Tajganj, Hariparwat, Lohamandi and Shahganj areas. ADA officials claim that notices have been sent to all the identified cases of unauthorized construction. In several instances, orders to seal or demolish illegal construction were issued by the ADA administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/no-commercial-electricity-connection-without-approved-building-map-says-ada/articleshow/77205143.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Agra||15 booked, 7 arrested in Kasganj triple murder||AGRA: At least seven men were arrested and 15 were booked by Kasganj district police, after three members of a gram pradhan’s family were shot dead on Sunday night. The booked men were identified as Geetam Singh, Krishan Kumar, Rajesh, Satyendra, Ramesh, Ramkishore, Sunil, Ganga Singh, Babloo, Sunil Singh, Sataydev, Raju, Atar Singh, Bhup Singh and Umesh under various sections of the IPC. Three men identified as Rudra alias Bhupendra Singh (25), Prem Singh (55) and his son Radhacharan (26) were shot dead in Hodalpur village under Soron police limits. They were immediate family members of Satyavati, the gram pradhan of Hodalpur. Her husband Vijendra and others sustained injuries. Mohar Singh, senior sub inspector of Soron police said, “We have arrested seven men and are interrogating them to ascertain the sequence of events. Prima facie, it is a case of old rivalry.” The three bodies were cremated under heavy police presence on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/15-booked-7-arrested-in-kasganj-triple-murder/articleshow/77205158.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Trichy||Hit by Covid, demand for affordable rental houses goes up in Trichy||Trichy: The economic impact of the lockdown and Covid-19 outbreak for the past four months have made a cascading effect on the demand for houses for rent in Trichy city and its suburbs. While houses having high rents were finding no takers, there is much demand for budget houses within the city and suburbs from people who want to cut down their monthly expenses amid the lockdown. At the beginning of the lockdown in April and May, house owners were lenient towards tenants in collecting rent. But, as days progressed, tenants said that house owners who started feeling the heat have started demanding the monthly rents since June. The self-employed people, daily wagers and entrepreneurs preferred low-budget rental houses in Melachinthamani, Rockfort and Devathanam localities, said middlemen in the sector. “People who had been paying a rent of Rs6,000 have started looking for low budget houses for Rs3,000. Houses with high rents are not finding any takers for the past two to three months,” J Lenin, president, Trichy District Real Estate Mediators Association, said. The overall enquiries for houses for rent are down by 70%, according to real estate agents. Even those who make enquiries for new houses are placing their monthly rental ceiling in the range of Rs 3,000. A few people who were residing in the core city areas have also started moving to suburbs such as ARK Nagar, Allithurai and Mutharasanallur for low rents. “Since the rent of individual houses in the suburbs is comparatively low, people have started moving to such places,” S Sivakumar, another real estate agent, said. Tenants who have paid advance amount to occupy flats and houses in Trichy city have postponed their relocation plans owing to the fear of contracting the infection. Since the demand for expensive houses is going down, more ‘To let’ boards have started appearing in the city’s residential hubs including Thillai Nagar and Cantonment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/hit-by-covid-demand-for-affordable-rental-houses-goes-up-in-trichy/articleshow/77208159.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 28, 2020||Trichy||Pvt lab in Trichy banned from Covid testing; sealed and fined Rs 5 lakh||Trichy: A couple of days after Trichy collector banned Doctors’ Diagnostic Centre (DDC) in Trichy from performing Covid-19 testing and imposed a fine of Rs 5 lakh on the lab on charges of wrong testing, the city corporation sealed down the entire centre for violation of building rules on Monday. In a statement issued on Monday, collector S Sivarasu said that DDC indulged in a practice that sparked off unnecessary panic among people. “Since the laboratory has been giving wrong results and delaying results with a self-profit motive, it triggers panic among people. As the lab remains a factor for spreading Covid-19, the ban on conducting Covid-19 related tests was imposed on the lab on July 25,” he said in the statement. The collector said that the action was initiated under sections 14, 59, 62, 72 and 83 of Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939. The collector ordered the lab to pay the penalty of Rs 5 lakh to the treasury of Trichy Corporation, failing which action will be taken under TNPH Act and corporation rules. The collector also mentioned that DDC gave contradictory results for a Covid-19 test on a man. The patient was negative but the lab uploaded positive on ICMR website. The collector also stated that the lab delayed the results of 29 samples with vested interest. “They have violated the rules on all the floors. The issue has been going on for a long time. We had issued notice to them 40 days back too. Since they have not taken any corrective measure, the laboratory has been sealed,” said Trichy Corporation executive engineer (east) P Sivapatham. The laboratory has been functioning from the building for nearly eight years. Claiming that the corporation ‘wrongly’ accused them of violating building rules, DDC MD Dr P K Rath said that a health officer from corporation had issued them a notice on July 25 stating that the lab wrongly gave ‘positive’ result to a road traffic accident (RTA) patient who had to undergo surgery. “It was a month-old incident and it was a typographical error. We have found out the mistake and changed it in a few days. They issued a notice following which I stopped collecting the samples for Covid-19 on the same day,” said Dr Rath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pvt-lab-in-trichy-banned-from-covid-testing-sealed-and-fined-rs-5-lakh/articleshow/77208155.cms||Gokul Rajendran
July 28, 2020||Indore||Dist election office gets 6K applications before IMC polls||Indore: Ahead of civic body polls, the district  office has received around 6000 applications related to the first publication of electoral roll. The district election office had set July 25 as the last date to submit claims and objections before publishing the final electoral roll for the upcoming IMC polls. In the said process, the office received a total of 5822 applications including 4733 for adding names, 737 for deletion and 352 for correction. Maximum 1811 applications have been received in Indore-II assembly constituency while 575 applications have been received in Indore-V assembly, which is the state’s biggest constituency. Similarly, the district election office has received a total 16,225 applications in all four janpad panchayats of the district including Indore, Depalpur, Sanwer and Mhow. Of this, 9357 applications are to add names, 6363 for deletion and 505 for correction in the voter ID in the electoral roll. In comparison to janpad panchayats, the district election office has received very few applications in all 85 wards of IMC to remove names. The reason was given as people in rural parts are more aware of deleting names from the electoral roll, if they’re moving to another place or in case of death of the voters. “We have fixed August 5 for disposing of all the claims and objections while the final electoral roll will be published on September 5 for all 85 wards of IMC and all four janpad panchayats of the district,” assistant district election officer Sohan Kanash told TOI. He said that reservation of wards under IMC’s limit will be carried out on July 31. On the basis of it, eligibility of the candidates will be checked in the upcoming civic body polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/dist-election-office-gets-6k-applications-before-imc-polls/articleshow/77208194.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Agra||Relax lockdown for 3 hrs for Eid prayers: AIMIM||Agra: Members of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) in Aligarh on Monday urged UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath to allow a three-hour relaxation of weekend lockdown in the morning so that prayers can be offered at idgahs and mosques on the occasion of Eid al-Adha (Bakrid). Gufran Noor, AIMIM district president, said the 'five persons in a mosque' rule should be lifted and demanded relaxation in the weekend lockdown restrictions in view of the festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/relax-lockdown-for-3-hrs-for-eid-prayers-aimim/articleshow/77205176.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi active Covid-19 cases down to a third in a month||NEW DELHI: A month can be a time long enough to turn a situation of fear into a success story. On Monday, the number of new positive cases reported in the capital was 613, which is one of the lowest in about two months. The city had seen its highest single-day spike of 3,947 fresh cases on June 23. Since then, the number of new coronavirus cases has significantly declined. The figure had been hovering around 1,000 for past many days. Even the number of active positive cases shows improvement in the Covid-19 situation. On July 27, the number of active cases in Delhi was 10,994 of which 2,835 were admitted in hospitals, 908 in dedicated Covid care centres or health centres and 6,638 in home isolation. Compare this to the number of active Covid-19 cases exactly a month ago on June 27 — 28,329. The number of active cases on June 27 was the highest witnessed in the capital so far. The number of active cases had begun rising from around 11,000 in early June to reach a crescendo of 28,329 cases on June 27, after which the figure started declining. The dip in the number of active cases from June 27 to July 27 has been 61.2% and the last time the figure was less than that of Monday was nearly two months ago on May 31 when there were 10,893 active Covid-19 patients in Delhi. Also, compared with the recovery rate of 61.4% on June 27, the figure has improved to 88.6% on July 27. While the number of active patients has gone down, the number of patients recovering from Covid-19 has also been increasing lately, barring a few days. As many as 1,497 patients recovered from the virus on Monday, while 2,210 patients had recovered on July 27. As per an analysis of the Covid-19 death figures done by the Delhi government’s health department, the decline in deaths has been 44% in early July compared with early June. According to sources in the state government, initiatives spearheaded by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal have resulted in the turnaround and made the ‘Delhi model’ a success story. The primary strategies that helped in containing Covid-19 were aggressive testing and efficient management of not only containment zones, but also buffer zones and areas with isolated cases. From 25,175 tests per million conducted by June 27, the number has now gone up to 50,435 per million in the capital. The number of containment zones was 315 on June 27 and 716 on July 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/active-cases-down-to-a-third-in-a-month/articleshow/77208206.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government doing enough to tackle Covid-19 cases: HC||NEW DELHI: Observing that the AAP government has taken adequate steps to deal with access to treatment for seriously-ill Covid-19 patients, Delhi high court on Monday ended its monitoring of the matter. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and justice Prateek Jalan noted Delhi government’s stand that there has been an increase in number of ambulances, capacity of helplines to field calls has been augmented, testing facilities ramped up and a plasma bank has also been created to handle Covid-19 cases in the capital. The bench disposed of the matter that had been referred to it by another division bench last month, relating to steps taken by AAP government to treat seriously-ill corona patients in the city, including ambulances and hospitalisation. The court had taken suo motu cognisance of an emotional appeal on video made by a man who lost his mother to Covid-19 after he failed to secure a hospital bed or a ventilator as the helplines remained unresponsive. It had triggered the court’s intervention to plug the gaps in government’s preparation to identify, transport and admit serious patients needing immediate hospitalisation. While disposing of the matter, the high court directed Delhi government to ensure that the official orders and directions issued by it and the court with regard to real time update of data of availability of beds and ventilators as also conducting tests are followed by the hospitals. It also directed that the ambulance services, for Covid and non-Covid patients, and the helplines should continue to operate and the nodal officers appointed by Delhi government in its hospitals should keep in mind the difficulties of the people. In an affidavit, government told the court that more lines were added to its helpline numbers, the number of ambulances were increased to 602 from earlier 334 and of its more than 11 lakh rapid antigen test kits, there is a buffer stock of 8.27 lakh kits, which are being offered free of cost for testing at all government hospitals and dispensaries. It further informed the court that the price of RT/PCR test has been capped at Rs 2,400, while the rapid testing cost has been capped at Rs 450 at private labs, which have been instructed not to refuse home collection of samples. The high court appreciated that the state government has set up two plasma banks at Lok Nayak Hospital and Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, where at present a buffer stock of over 300 plasma is available for plasma therapy that is being provided free of cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-govt-doing-enough-to-tackle-covid-cases-hc/articleshow/77208168.cms||Abhinav Garg
July 28, 2020||Trichy||67% of Covid deaths in Trichy Corpn||Trichy: Covid-19 deaths reported in Trichy city has witnessed almost a 10-fold surge within the month as it accounts for 67% of the deaths reported in the district. A majority of casualties were senior citizens with comorbidities. Till July 26, the district has reported 58 deaths, sixth in the state in terms of casualties. The deaths in rural parts were comparatively lower than the city. The first Covid-19 death in the district was reported in Alwarthope on June 2. The number of deaths reached four on July 2 and surged to 39 on July 26. While the deaths in the city went up by 70% between July 19-26, in the rural parts it went up by 58%. On an average, the city has reported 1-5 deaths per day in the last week. Almost 92% of the deaths in the city were residents above 60 years of age with comorbidities. The remaining 8% were also comorbid cases. A 65-year-old grocery shop owner from Thiruverumbur and an octogenarian entrepreneur from K Abishekapuram zone were among the casualties who contracted the infection while travelling to their workplace. The recent most casualty was also a 65-year-old man running a petty shop near the Gandhi market, who is suspected to contracted the infection from his customers. “Deaths were reported even before the result arrived. A 72-year-old man in Srirangam zone succumbed on the same day after giving his swab for RT-PCR test,” a corporation official said. Delayed medical attention is another reason for the deaths. A septuagenarian in Cantonment died of Covid-19 after his neighbour was infected. “Fever surveillance is underway are recording the details of the vulnerable population including senior citizens. Helplines for all four zones were launched for residents to alert us if they develop symptoms. Our workers will check them,” corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/67-of-covid-deaths-in-trichy-corpn/articleshow/77208164.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 28, 2020||Indore||Pumpkin farmers dump produce on roads||Mhow: Spirited farmers this year had sown pumpkin crop anticipating bumper yield, but their hopes were shattered due to the pandemic and subsequent lockdown in mandis at a time when harvest is at its peak. Farmers are getting costs of less than Rs 2 per kg, which doesn’t even cover the transportation charges. Most of the farmers have dumped the harvested pumpkins on roadside so that passersby would take it home. All nearby mandis shut due to lockdown and transporters not readily available for exporting it to Delhi, Mumbai and Punjab, have given farmers back-to-back jolts. Since the last few years, pumpkin has been the favourite crop of farmers in villages such as Bhagora, Kelod, Bercha, Badgonda, Mein and Jamli in Indore and Dharampuri, Dhamnod and Badnawar villages of Dhar, as they got better rates in Delhi, Mumbai, Punjab and Gwalior. Dinesh Patidar, a farmer from Bhagora, told TOI that the extent of loss could be evaluated from the fact that due to high yield, the cost of pumpkin has come down to Rs 1-1.5 per kg in wholesale market. “Many farmers are of the view that taking the produce to the market is not feasible so they are bound to dump them. The plight of farmers is such that despite the huge loss, we have to spend money even for taking the crop out of the fields”, he said. Shantilal Patel of Phoolgawdi village in Dhar told TOI that last year, pumpkin yield was low and the wholesale cost was around Rs 10 per kg while retail cost went up to Rs 20 per kg. The reason being high demand in ketchup factories in Delhi and Mumbai. Looking at this, he and many other farmers decided to sow pumpkin on a large scale. Mohanlal Pandey, a farmer leader, said farmers get affected in drought when there is little or no yield but very few know that they are affected similarly by a very high yield, especially that of perishable goods. He said the only difference between both the losses is that the government compensates in case of drought while there is no such provision in the latter. He said that the cost price of sowing pumpkin is around Rs 40,000 per acre. But looking at the current rates, farmers are getting far less, due to which they are not taking the crop to the market, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/pumpkin-farmers-dump-produce-on-roads/articleshow/77208227.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Lucknow||Cannabis worth Rs 1.5cr seized from truck, 2 held||Lucknow: Sleuths of Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) seized 1,017kg of cannabis from a truck on Rae Bareli Road in Mohanlalganj on Monday. The team intercepted a truck with a registration number from Aligarh near an engineering institute in Mohanlalganj.  “As soon as the truck was intercepted and stopped for checking, two persons sitting inside the vehicle tried to flee, but were detained,” said an officer privy to the operation. Later, the team found 1017.68kg cannabis hidden in the truck, he said. Two persons Hakim Singh and Kumar Gaurav who were involved in the transportation of the contraband items were arrested. During interrogation, they said that the cannabis was brought from Koraput in Odisha and was taken to Aligarh. As per DRI sources, the cannabis would have been sold at 15,000/kg and the consignment was worth around Rs 1.5 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cannabis-worth-rs-1-5cr-seized-from-truck-2-held/articleshow/77208860.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Agra||Ambulance driver in PPE ferrying Covid-19 patients faints in Mathura||AGRA: An ambulance driver wearing a PPE kit fell unconscious while driving Covid-19 patients to a hospital in Mathura on Monday. This was the fifth such incident in the district in the last 15 days. Plastic PPE kits are very suffocating, say Covid warriors who have to wear it for long hours. The heat makes things worse. They have been demanding changes in the kit. According to Dr Bhudev, who was travelling with the patients in the ambulance, four widows from Vidhwa Ashram were being shifted to KN Medical College after testing positive for Covid-19 when the driver fainted. Luckily, everyone escaped unhurt. Senior officials were informed about the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/ambulance-driver-in-ppe-ferrying-covid-19-patients-faints-in-mathura/articleshow/77205192.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Doctors remove 20cm-long knife stuck in a man’s liver||NEW DELHI: In a bizarre incident, a 28-year-old man with a history of psychosis had ingested a kitchen knife. Luckily, the 20cm-long knife didn’t damage any of his vital organs like the heart and lungs, and got stuck in the liver without causing any immediate problem. It was only a month later that the daily wage labourer from Palwal in Haryana developed issues like difficulty in eating, weight loss, fever, and then abdominal pain that soon became unbearable. Local hospitals referred him to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi where an ultrasound test and an X-ray of the abdomen revealed the blade of the kitchen knife stuck in the liver. The patient was then referred to AIIMS for surgery. The man told doctors that one and a half months ago during the lockdown, when “he was in the kitchen, he felt like eating the knife. He tried to chew it and finally gulped it down with water”. Doctors at AIIMS needed nearly three hours to remove the knife with the help of ultrasound guidance on July 19. A doctor said the blade was entirely inside the liver and the handle inside the duodenum, the first part of small intestine. The knife had perforated the duodenum and gone into the liver, and led to bleeding, infection and abscess formation in the liver and sepsis. The patient’s haemoglobin level was very low and water had accumulated in his right chest. According to Dr N R Dash, professor of GI surgery and liver transplantation at AIIMS, they first controlled the sepsis and gave him blood transfusion. A tube was put inside the liver under X-ray guidance to drain the pus out. It sucked around 100ml of pus every day for four-five days. Another tube was inserted to take out the water from the chest, Dr Dash explained. After seven days, when the patient’s condition improved to a certain extent, the surgery was carried out by opening the intestine.“The patient was in the ICU for seven days. He is now out of danger and out of ICU,” Dr Dash added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/doctors-remove-20cm-long-knife-stuck-in-a-mans-liver/articleshow/77208224.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Nagpur||MLA, corporators ask people to follow Covid norms||Nagpur: After the two-day janata curfew, the BJP-ruled Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has chalked out a three-day programme to create awareness regarding implementation of Covid-19 guidelines. Mayor Sandip Joshi has organized a meeting with traders’ associations in the city to seek their support in organizing social awareness programmes to break the chain of coronavirus. A notification issued by deputy municipal commissioner and NMC secretary Ranjana Lade said the three-day awareness drive by NMC in association with elected representatives will be held from 4pm to 6pm from July 28 to July 30. The awareness drive was decided at a July 24 review meeting convened by Joshi along with elected representatives and municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe. One of the decisions at the meet was the janata curfew. Joshi and Mundhe have also warned that if citizens do not follow Covid-19 guidelines, the administration will have no other choice but to impose complete lockdown for at least 15 days. Rajya Sabha MP Dr Vikas Mahatme and MLC Anil Sole will create awareness in South-West constituency. MLA and city Congress president Vikas Thakre and mayor Sandip Joshi will visit areas under West Nagpur assembly constituency. MLA Krishna Khopde, deputy mayor Manisha Kothe and leader of opposition in NMC Tanaji Wanve will cover areas under East Nagpur. MLA Mohan Mate and standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke will create awareness in South Nagpur. MLA Vikas Kumbhare, MLC Girish Vyas and corporator Dayashankar Tiwari will visit and create awareness in Central Nagpur, while MLC Pravin Datke and BSP leader in NMC Vaishali Narnaware and health committee chairman (NMC) Virendra Kukreja will visit areas in North Nagpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mla-corporators-ask-people-to-follow-covid-norms/articleshow/77203199.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Hubballi||Toll crosses 100 in Dharwad dist||Dharwad: The number of Covid-19 deaths in the district crossed the 100 mark on Monday with eight more people succumbing to the virus in the last 24 hours. The health bulletin issued on Monday evening said so far 103 infected persons have died in the district. A 53-year-old woman and men aged 72, 75, 55, 48, 60, 82 and 51 have succumbed, the health bulletin. As many as 193 fresh Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the district in last 24 hours ending on Monday evening, taking the tally to 3,383. Of them 1,277, including 55 on Monday, have been discharged. The number of active cases stands at 2,003, while 36 people are in ICU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/toll-crosses-100-in-dharwad-dist/articleshow/77206333.cms||---
July 28, 2020||India||Don’t post videos or pictures of sacrifice: Clerics||BAREILLY: Jamat Raza-e-Mustafa, a 101-year-old organisation of Dargah Aala Hazrat, has urged people not to click or post photographs of animals before or after sacrifice on the occasion of the upcoming Eid-ul-Adha festival, reports Priyangi Agarwal. Clerics said the appeal has been made as posting of such photographs could hurt the sentiments of other communities. National vice-president of Jamat Raza-e-Mustafa, Salman Hasan Khan, said, “Posting pictures is against sharia and it could hurt sentiments of other communities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dont-post-videos-or-pictures-of-sacrifice-clerics/articleshow/77210325.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Delhi||Doctors remove pellets from skull of man shot at point blank in Delhi||NEW DELHI: In a rare surgery, doctors at a private hospital in the city saved the life of a 39-year-old man who was shot in the head from close range. Radhey Shyam, a resident of Sonia Vihar in northeast Delhi, had suffered gunshot injury on July 4 and was first rushed to Lok Nayak Hospital. From there, he was shifted to Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. Doctors said the patient was bleeding profusely and had breathing difficulties when he was brought to the emergency section and he had to be put on ventilator support. As any delay in surgery could have caused death, the hospital formed an emergency medical board and decided to wheel the patient to the OT without waiting for his Covid test result. According to Dr Samir K Kalra, neurosurgeon at SGRH, multiple pellets had penetrated the patient’s skull at various depths and had severely crushed the left part of his brain, which had started bulging out. “The main challenge was to remove the bullet remnants without damaging the brain tissues. There were also multiple clots that needed to be removed,” he said. The surgery, which took five hours, involved removing the bone flap of the skull, securing the shattered and bleeding brain tissues and then taking out the fragments of gunmetal and pellets. Dr Kalra said the condition of the patient was critical at the time of admission and there was hardly any time for preparation or screening. The anaesthesiology and ICU teams are also crucial for a successful outcome, Dr B K Rao, chief of ICU at SGRH said. “Early ambulation and aggressive physiotherapy was helpful in getting the patient out of ventilator support and we were able to shift him out of the ICU,” he added. The patient is currently conscious and is recovering well, doctors said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/docs-remove-pellets-from-skull-of-man-shot-at-point-blank/articleshow/77208236.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Trichy||School kid poses as Gandhi, sensitises people on norms||Karur: At a time when the police and civic body are struggling to make people wear face masks and maintain social distancing, a 14-year-old school boy on Monday took up the task by dressing up like Mahatma Gandhi. Accompanied by his grandmother, P Karthikeyan, a Class IX student, took out an awareness walk in the morning around Karur town holding a stick in one hand and a placard in the other which read “Be at home, stay safe by maintaining social distancing”. The district has largely kept Covid-19 under control as cases recorded are only in single digits on a daily basis. But Karthikeyan and his grandmother took out the initiative to keep the spread under control. Seeing a group of people in a tea stall near a bus stand, Karthikeyan went there to request them to maintain social distancing. As he found found the tea master hanging his mask on the wall, he requested him to wear the mask for the sake of his customers. Karthikeyan lives with his grandmother R Kalaiselvi, 48, a potato chips seller near the Karur bus stand. He found her disappointed over people coming to her shop without wearing mask. When she told Karthikeyan about it, he told her that people would only listen if it is from a big leader. “I asked him if he would play the role of a big leader, he readily agreed,” said Kalaiselvi. She said that they spent about Rs 500 to get some make-up and having Karthikeyan to pose like Mahatma Gandhi. “The father of the nation is the most respected leader across the world and we hoped people would listen if we dressed up like Gandhiji,” she said. Karthikeyan said that he is planning to continue this for a few more days. He realised that it needs to be a continued like Mahatma Gandhi who carried hunger strike to convince the British on many occasion and succeeded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/school-kid-poses-as-gandhi-sensitises-people-on-norms/articleshow/77208212.cms||Sampath Kumar
July 28, 2020||Delhi||Four caught in shootout after failed robbery attempt at jewellery store in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A group of robbers who had shot at a jeweller after failing to loot his store in west Delhi has been caught after a shootout near Patel Nagar. During the shootout, the four accused barged into a bungalow and also fired at the area DCP. Another associate has been arrested from Uttam Nagar. On Monday, jeweller Chand Chaddha resisted the robbery bid at his shop near Tilak Nagar, and the accused shot him in the abdomen and fled. Chaddha has been hospitalised. As the robbers fled towards towards Shadipur in central Delhi in an i20 car, Chaddha’s employees informed the police control room about the incident and could tell the cops the last four digits of the car numberplate. Police spotted the car heading towards Shadipur after a few minutes and alerted the central district police. A special patrol team on bikes was deployed around the Patel Nagar metro station to stop the car. While the criminals hit a bike to flee, two other bikes blocked their passage. The men then got off their car and started running on foot. DCP (central) Sanjay Bhatia also rushed to the spot along with a team to intercept the gang. Finding themselves surrounded by the cops, the criminals entered the ground floor of the bungalow by jumping over its wall. Fortunately, the floor was empty and nobody was injured. When Bhatia challenged them to step out, the men fired at the DCP, who also retaliated. “The criminals then tried to escape through the rear exit of the bungalow, but a police team was already placed there and they were nabbed,” said Bhatia. Police identified the men as Sachin Jhangra, Mohammad Anas, Nadeem and Shehzad. Manish was caught from Uttam Nagar. Jhangra, who is also a jeweller, had hatched the plot along with one Antim, a resident of Bahadurgarh. They contracted Manish to arrange for shooters. The gang initially planned to rob a jeweller in Rohini, but later decided to target Chaddha as Jhangra knew him. Police have found that the gang was earlier involved in armed robbery cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/four-caught-in-shootout-after-failed-robbery-attempt-at-jewellery-store/articleshow/77229396.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: AI in engineering courses promises to make UG students future-ready||CHENNAI: Artificial Intelligence has taken over college campuses in Tamil Nadu in a big way. From the 2020-21 academic year, institutions will offer BTech in AI and data science and BTech in AI and machine learning, with some planning to offer AI as a major for computer science engineering. Though academicians have raised concerns over offering highly specialized courses at the undergraduate level, almost all colleges say it will be an advantage as students get a chance to learn about a field that is still evolving. The syllabus for the new course is likely to be similar to that of computer science engineering for at least the first two years. AI is a branch of science that aims at developing machines that can sense, reason, act and adapt. The machines will also be able to improve performance with experience. “It is only in artificial intelligence that we are starting along with the rest of the world. Usually, it is only after a field gets very popular in the rest of the world that it is offered here. As far as artificial intelligence and machine learning are concerned, we are starting it even before other countries go in for undergraduate programmes in the field. In future, we can produce world class engineers in this field,” said S N Murugesan, principal of Chennai-based Rajalakshmi Engineering College. “We don’t need anything new. In fact, software and other requirements are mainly open source. The only resource colleges need is trained faculty who are familiar with the latest development,” he added. Colleges are now encouraging faculty members to join training programmes on AI and machine learning. “Students would study advanced features of artificial intelligence like machine learning in the third and fourth year. By then, we would have trained all our faculty members. We also plan to tie up with Cisco and IBM for training,” said K Maran, director of Sri Sairam Engineering College, also in Chennai.  Experts say colleges do not need any major infrastructure as most of them have hitech computer labs. “Our students lack good case studies to build on solutions. They need to build a real time solution which is feasible and faculty members should be able to guide them to find real time issues,” said Magesh Venkatramani, an industry expert in AI and data science. M A Maluk Mohammed, director and correspondent of MAM College of Engineering and Technology in Trichy, expressed reservations. “Studying computer science is good enough to have a career in artificial intelligence and data science. All India Council for Technical Education should apply its mind and consolidate engineering courses to suit the demand and supply,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ai-in-engg-courses-promises-to-make-ug-students-future-ready/articleshow/77208243.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Trichy||Spike in deaths in Pudukottai district||Trichy: Even as Pudukottai district has been recording more than 100 Covid-19 cases in the past few days, increasing deaths reported in the recent days has raised concern. The district recorded 12 deaths in the past two weeks. This district has so far recorded 21 deaths, including a person who committed suicide in a hospital. Diabetes was found to be the most common comorbidity among those who died. Besides this, hypertension, heart ailments and renal failure are the other common ailments that affected the victims. “Getting cured of Covid-19 largely depends on the resistance level in the body. Whatever drug we give will work based on immunity of the patients,” said Pudukottai government medical college dean, A L Meenakshi Sundaram. He said the death rate was highest in the 61-70 age group. However, there were comorbid patients as old as 84 who got cured after getting treated in the government hospitals in the district. The death toll is expected to go up in the coming days. Last Sunday, a total 113 cases were reported, which is highest number of cases reported on a single day. With 98 cases recorded on Monday, a total of 1,715 cases have been reported in the district. The positive cases have doubled in the last two weeks, with over 1000 cases being reported in this period. The district administration has taken a slew of measures to bring down the Covid-19 spread. Traders have downed their shutters for a week from July 24. The officials expect that the complete lockdown in place from July 24 will help in bringing down the virus spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/spike-in-deaths-in-pudukottai-district/articleshow/77208186.cms||Sampath Kumar
July 28, 2020||Indore||500 acre land at Badnawar identified for industrial belt||INDORE: Madhya Pradesh Industrial Development Corporation (MPIDC), Indore has identified around 500 acres of land at Badnawar in Dhar district to develop an industrial belt and sent a proposal for the same to Bhopal. Aiming to increase industrial belts in the region to attract investment, the industry department is conducting a survey to identify potential land banks. The land identified as potential industrial belt is in three different patches at Badnawar. A senior official from MPIDC, Indore, wishing anonymity, said, “We have sent a proposal to MPIDC, Bhopal for developing the land in Badnwar into a industrial belt. Once approved by head office, the same will go to the state government for final nod.” Regional offices of the industry department have been directed to identify new industrial lands in their region to expand industrial belts. Another potential area where the department is eyeing fresh investment is Jaitapur Palasia in Dhar district. The official said, “Development work at Jaitapur Palasia is 70 per cent complete. The area is being developed as a multipurpose industrial belt. As soon as the development work is finished, we will start bookings for this belt.” The industry department is working on creating a land bank of around 20,000 acres by land pooling. As per officials of industry department, some areas have been selected for land pooling near Indore, Ujjain, Dewas, Khargone, Bhopal, Raisen, Sehore and Hoshangabad. The industry department aims to launch booking for around 5000 acres from the land bank in different areas of the state by next fiscal. MPIDC, Indore was the first to begin land pooling and has received consent for around 586 hectares of which 320 hectares is from farmers and rest is government land in between the proposed new industrial belt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/500-acre-land-at-badnawar-identified-for-industrial-belt/articleshow/77208241.cms||Meenakshi Sharma
July 28, 2020||Trichy||Three more held for sexual assault of minor girl in Tamil Nadu's Mayiladuthurai||NAGAPATTINAM: Three men aged 73, 46, and 24 were arrested on charges of raping a 14-year-old girl at a village near Mayiladuthurai. The all-women police had already arrested her brother-in-law for raping and impregnating the rape survivor before marrying her. The girl delivered a baby girl on July 19. According to officials of the district child protection office in Nagapattinam, the accused have been identified as Radhakrishnan, 73, a retired office assistant in the highways department, Raju, 24, a vegetable vendor and Senthil, 46, a pawnbroker, all hailing from the same village where the girl was residing near Thiruvalaputhur. All the three have been booked under the Pocso Act on Monday. On inquiry, it came to light that the three men had also sexually abused the girl with the knowledge of her mother, District Child Protection officer N Sivakumar, told TOI. The all-women police arrested the main accused, the brother-in law of the girl, from Vaitheeswaran Kovil for marrying the minor on July 23. The girl’s mother was also booked under Pocso Act for abetting the crime. However, she is still on the run. According to Sivakumar, the three accused had raped the girl. The girl’s mother, who is aware of the issue, married her off to the husband of the rape survivor’s sister. The rape survivor’s father passed away four years ago, and the girl was staying at the village along with her mother and two sisters. The accused was the husband of one of her sisters. The girl and the baby have been shifted to a government home for their rehabilitation, DCPO Sivakumar added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/3-more-held-for-sexual-assault-of-minor-girl-in-mayiladuthurai/articleshow/77208225.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Lucknow||LMC colour codes to fix garbage woes||Lucknow: Localities will now be given colour codes by Lucknow Municipal Corporation to prioritise garbage management so that additional sanitary workers can be deployed in areas where status is poor. LMC has engaged a private company to conduct a survey of garbage management city following complaints of lack of sanitation from many areas. Based on feedback from all 110 wards, a colour code of red, yellow or green would be assigned to each ward. The survey will measure the quantity of garbage generated in a ward daily, assess dumping points and transfer stations and take feedback from locals. Municipal commissioner Indramani Tripathi said that LMC will then prioritise to deploy additional workers and dumpsters and compactors in red and yellow zones, while maintaining quality in the green.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lmc-colour-codes-to-fix-garbage-woes/articleshow/77208880.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Agra||162 Covid +ve cases in Bareilly, 120 infected in Shahjahanpur||BAREILLY/AGRA/MEERUT: In yet another single-day spike in Covid-19 caseload in western Uttar Pradesh, 120 more people were tested positive in Shahjahanpur district on Monday, taking the district tally to 816. Significantly, nearly 50 per cent of the cases were reported in the past six days. Bareilly also continued to witness a surge as at least 162 new cases were reported on a single day on Monday. Among the 120 people tested positive in Shahjahanpur on Monday, 39 were randomly selected and 24 of them were from the township of a private fertilizer factory. The situation in the township has been a matter of concern for many as only 50 samples were taken from here, so far. The number of cases in Bareilly may go up further as the reports from private laboratories were not yet in till the filing of this report. The district reported two deaths on Monday as a 55-year-old woman and a 74-year-old man died due to Covid-19. With these 162 cases, Bareilly's tally reached 1,634, including 50 deaths. Moreover, the Covid-19 tally in Meerut has now crossed the 2,000 mark on Monday. At least 36 more people, including four health workers and a policeman, were tested positive on Monday, taking the total tally to 2,006, said Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's chief medical officer (CMO). And one more death took the toll to 88. In Agra district, at least 25 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced on Monday, taking the district tally to 1,677. These included two kidney patients, three patients of severe acute respiratory infection, two of acute respiratory distress syndrome, two of influenza-like illness and a patient of coronary artery infection. Also, 17 patients were discharged on Monday. Of the 1,677 cases reported in the district, 81.9% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are 205 active Covid-19 cases in the district. CMO RC Pandey said, “So far, 1,358 people have recovered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/162-covid-ve-cases-in-bareilly-120-infected-in-shahjahanpur/articleshow/77205237.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Mumbai||Widow moves Bombay HC against son for assault, harassment||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Monday directed the state government to inform within how much time the sub-divisional officer (Mumbai suburbs) would hear the plea of a senior citizen who has alleged assault and harassment by her son and daughter-in-law. A bench of Justices K K Tated and Riyaz Chagla heard a petition by Pramila Singh (64), a widow and resident of a Santacruz (W) chawl since 35 years. She moved high court after she was denied an urgent hearing and told that due to Covid-19, her complaint would be adjudicated upon after four months. The SDO is designated as a tribunal under the Maintenance of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007. “The petitioner’s life, liberty and safety is in peril and thus non-adjudication of the application by the SDO violates the fundamental rights of the petitioner,” Singh’s petition stated Singh’s petition stated that she has three married daughters and a son who continued to stay in the family home after his marriage. She alleged that he does not look after or pay for expenses and along with his wife subjects her to assault and abuse. Her petition listed several instances of harassment, including switching off kitchen lights or removing the gas-burners while she cooks, damage to TV and her other belongings, and recording her videos to share with relatives. She urged HC to direct the SDO to decide her application as expeditiously as possible in a time-bound manner and to direct her son and daughter-in-law to peacefully vacate the premises. Several times she took refuge at her daughter’s and brother’s place. Even mediation efforts failed. Singh’s advocate Altaf Khan said on July 14 the SDO refused to take her application. After her insistence, she was told to drop it in a box. On July 20, her authorized representative was told that due to the pandemic a hearing was not possible for four months. The judges told assistant government pleader Jyoti Chavan to take instructions and inform how much time the SDO will take to hear Singh’s application at the next hearing on July 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/widow-moves-hc-against-son-for-assault-harassment/articleshow/77207578.cms||Rosy Sequeira
July 28, 2020||Trichy||Family in isolation, woman, alone, dies of cardiac arrest||Thanjavur: A 40-year-old woman died reportedly of cardiac arrest near Pattukottai in Thanjavur, two days after her husband, 45, and son, 12, were taken for isolation at a quarantine centre in Pattukottai after they tested positive for Covid-19. Two more members of her family had also admitted to the hospitals after they too turned positive, officials said. The deceased women's mother, 65, had tested positive on July 19 and admitted to a private hospital in Thanjavur. Health workers took the swab of all the family members. Except for her, the rest of the family members tested positive. The woman was alone at home and was visibly upset. This had made her worried, sources from her relatives said. She had developed some health complications on Sunday evening and her relatives took them to a private hospital in Pattukottai from where she was referred to the government hospital in the town. However, she died on the way. After postmortem, the body was handed over to her relatives on Monday. “As none of her family members were quarantined and unable to attend the funeral, relatives approached revenue officials in Pattukottai and appealed to allow her husband just to see his wife’s body before cremation,” said Gajendran, tahsildar, who is posted at the quarantine facility in Pattukottai. “Though as per the protocol no Covid-19 positive patients should be let out of the quarantine centre, on humanitarian grounds, the revenue department allowed her husband get a glimpse of his wife before she would be taken to their native,” Gajendran told TOI. Relatives performed last rites in Soorapallam late in the evening on Monday, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/family-in-isolation-woman-alone-dies-of-cardiac-arrest/articleshow/77208228.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
July 28, 2020||Indore||Rakhi traders peg biz at half against last yr||Indore: A sudden spike in coronavirus cases in the last few weeks and fresh lockdown in many states have heavily weighed down on the Rakhi market with revenues apprehended to drop to half, claimed traders. Traders have ordered almost half the stocks this season as against previous year amid slackened demand from retailers and smaller towns while shortage of workers has also affected the production of designer rakhis at major manufacturing centres of the country. Indore is a major trade centre of Madhya Pradesh that supplies rakhis to most cities and rural areas of the state. A wholesaler rakhi delaer Sanjay Choudhary said, “Business is just 50 per cent this season. Traders are still concerned and hesitant to do business because of a lot of uncertainty over lockdown. Many states have again imposed lockdown and this has created a lot of concerns among traders.” Traders said business this season looks down by over 50 per cent because customers are still afraid of coming out and traders are not able to operate in a full-fledged manner amid concerns over restrictions from district administration. Rakhi will be celebrated on August 3. Rakhi economy gives employment to over 30,000 people directly and indirectly, claimed rakhi traders. They said usually production and stocking of rakhi inventories start from March but due to Covid-19 induced lockdown, production and transportation have taken a sharp hit. A rakhi trader Rohit Sharma said, “Looking at the current market scenario, we are focusing on clearing the old stocks. We have not placed many fresh orders. Availability of new designs has also reduced because of shortage of workers employed in making rakhis.” Kolkata, Delhi, Mumbai and Ahmedabad are major trading centres to get supplies for Rakhi, said traders of Ranipura market, a hub for wholesalers and semi-wholesalers of rakhi. There are close to 50 shops dealing in rakhis at Ranipura. Another rakhi dealer Arvind Jain said, “From Monday, we anticipate business to pick up because retailers will now purchase from wholesalers and set up temporary shops.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/rakhi-traders-peg-biz-at-half-against-last-yr/articleshow/77208255.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Indore||Festival lifts sales of milk by 1 lakh litres||INDORE: Consumption of milk by dairies and sweet shops have gone up ahead of upcoming festival of Rakhi, lifting sales of milk by around 1 lakh litres in the city, claimed body of private milk suppliers. Indore Dudgh Vikreta Sangh said sales of milk is anticipated to increase further in coming weeks as enquiries from sweet shops and dairies have risen. The association president Bharat Mathurawala said, “Dairies are now open and have started preparations for the upcoming festival. Though sales this season are not likely to match the past years, Rakhi has added some additional sales.” According to the association, daily collection of milk at present is close to 11 lakh litres of which consumption is close to 10.5 lakh litres. With increased demand from dairies and sweet shops, milk consumption has gone up and is likely to touch 12.5 lakh litres close to Rakhi. A sweet shop owner Anand Agrawal said, “Sales have not been that great in past months. But now as Rakhi is coming we have increased our items hoping for good sales on the festival. We have called our workers back for making traditional sweets that remain high in demand during festivals.”  As per the association of private milk suppliers, household milk consumption will also increase a day or two in advance of the festival. To bridge the gap between collection and increased demand ahead of the festival, milk traders are giving credit to farmers to purchase cattle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/festival-lifts-sales-of-milk-by-1l-litres/articleshow/77208260.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government portal to kick-start economy||NEW DELHI: With the grip of Covid-19 in Delhi loosening, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is focusing on economic revival. On Monday, he launched Rozgar Bazaar, an online placement portal that connects both job seekers with potential employers as well as commercial establishments eager to hire to meet the manpower shortage. In the first six hours of its launch, the portal, according to government sources, logged 51,403 job-seekers, while 1,071 employers posted notices of 18,585 vacancies. Launching the employment site at a digital press conference, Kejriwal said it would bridge the gap between job seekers and employers and help boost commercial activities and thus revive the economy from the impact of the Covid lockdown. On jobs.delhi. gov.in, job providers can post their requirements, while those seeking employment can enter their qualifications, experience and desired positions in the various work categories. The CM appealed to traders, industrialists, NGOs and citizens to join hands to revive the capital’s economy. “The people of Delhi have successfully fought the coronavirus over the last three months. Now we must move to the next stage,” Kejriwal said. “Due to the outbreak, people lost their jobs, and shops and factories closed down, leading to huge losses. Though the AAP government made food available to the hungry during the lockdown, people need jobs and businesses now, and the shops and factories have to reopen. We all need to pay attention to the economy.” He said he had full faith that Delhiites would respond magnificently, as they have done earlier in achieving big targets. “I appeal to the people of Delhi, the traders, industrialists, professionals, industry associations, market associations, business associations, NGOs, media organisations and government bodies in the city, let's go forward and take all steps to improve the economy of the capital,” Kejriwal said. The enthusiastic response to the employment initiative underlined the magnitude of job losses caused by the lockdown while highlighting the human resource needs of employers. Kejriwal said in this address that it was to “to synchronise and match these two sides” that Delhi government had launched Rozgar Bazaar. While employers could post their needs and the desired qualifications of people they wanted to hire, people could make public their eligibility for posts in sectors such as tourism, hotels and restaurants and construction, Kejriwal said. “We are hearing that several cities are rushing to impose lockdowns lasting 2-10 days, but I am happy that there is no need to for a fresh cessation of commercial life in Delhi,” Kejriwal said, adding that Delhi government had been in favour of opening up the capital’s economy since the central government permitted phased relaxations of the lockdown. “Many migrant labourers who had left Delhi are now coming back in big numbers,” the CM said. “I want to appeal to the remaining to return too. The industries, shops, construction, and all activities that had shut down are ready to reopen, and there is a big demand for workers.” Labour minister Gopal Rai added that the job portal was a free platform. “Nobody need pay a single paisa to register on it. If any person demands money to list on the portal, please ensure that you do not give any money,” Rai advised. Watch Delhi govt starts job portal amid coronavirus for job seekers, recruiters||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-portal-to-kick-start-economy/articleshow/77208258.cms||AlokKNMishra
July 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Rs 3 lakh stolen in daylight robbery||Chandigarh: Two masked men robbed Rs 3 lakh on gunpoint from the office of Western Union, Tour and Travel in the booth market of Sector 27. The complainant and office owner, Sanjeev Kalia, 46, has been working here for the last 12 years. At around 2pm, he said, he returned from PNB bank situated in the next block after withdrawing Rs 2 lakh for business. As soon as he entered his office, he added Rs 1 lakh he had in the office and placed the money in the cash box, after which he went to the market toilet. When he returned to his office at 2.30pm, he found that two masked men aged around 25 and 30 years standing inside the office. Kalia thought they were his clients who had come to exchange money. Suddenly, the person standing to his left whipped out a pistol from his pocket and pointed it at him, demanding money. Shocked, Kalia said he still could not believe they were robbers and thought his friends were pulling a prank on him. However, the accused pointed the pistol at Kalia’s head and using abusive language, asked him to give the money. Kalia complied and handed over Rs 3 lakh he had kept in the cash box. The accused threatened to kill Kalia if he raised an alarm. They asked him to crouch under his office table and not come out for 15 minutes. “I was afraid of getting killed so I complied,” said Kalia. The owner of a shop adjacent to the victim’s office said the accused had fled on a motorbike parked in the market. Police were alerted and a case was registered under section 394 (robbery) and 34 (acts done by several person with same intention) of the Indian Penal Code at Sector 26 police station. Further investigations are on. Box: Unsolved robberies in Chandigarh: December 8, 2019: Four armed men entered a couple’s flat and robbed Rs 3.5 lakh after holding them hostage at gunpoint in Sector 63. The complainant, Anil Sood, owner of an immigration firm, said miscreants locked him and his fiance in the bathroom and fled with Rs 3.5 lakhs, two i-phones and one Xiomi phone. May 14, 2019: Three armed men robbed cash and diamond jewellery worth Rs 3 crore from a store in Sector 44. Harsh Bedi, owner of Diva Diamonds, said three persons, two of them turbaned, entered his shop around 9pm. Two of the accused were carrying pistols and all of them were masked. They tied Bedi up and locked him in the washroom before fleeing with Rs 30,000, his pistol and diamond jewellery worth Rs 3 crore. March 10, 2019: Two bike-borne miscreants robbed Rs 5 lakh at gunpoint from Naresh Kumar, a cashier at a money exchange firm in Sector 22 on the dividing road of Sector 52/53 . The accused also shot the victim in his thigh before snatching the bag Box: Man beaten, robbed Chandigarh: A case under sections 394 (robbery) and 34 (act done by several person with same intention) of the IPC has been registered at Sarangpur police station, Chandigarh on the complaint of Yogesh, a resident of Housing Board Colony, Dhanas, Chandigarh. He alleged that Vishal, a resident of Dhanas and Kali, a resident of Daddu Majra, attacked him with a sharp-edged weapon and ran away with a mobile phone, Rs 700 and documents at Valley Park near his house. The injured complainant is admitted in PGI, Chandigarh. Further investigations are on, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rs-3-lakh-stolen-in-daylight-robbery/articleshow/77206765.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
July 28, 2020||India||In reply to Rahul Gandhi, BJP targets Nehru||NEW DELHI: BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP Rakesh Sinha on Monday said former PM Jawaharlal Nehru, who had “gifted 38,000 sq m of Indian land to China”, should be considered the biggest “traitor” if one went by what Congress MP Rahul Gandhi said. “Pandit Nehru had gifted 38,000 sq m of Indian land to China and kept justifying it by saying that the land was barren. Even after losing that piece of land, Nehru continued to be PM. Going by what Rahul Gandhi said, Pandit Nehru should be considered the biggest traitor,” Sinha said responding to Rahul’s statement that those denying China’s presence on Indian soil would be considered anti-nationals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-reply-to-rahul-gandhi-bjp-targets-nehru/articleshow/77210329.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Indore||Six mail motors, waterproof envelop for dispatch||INDORE: Ahead of Raksha Bandhan festival, India Post is plying special mail motors for intra and inter-district dispatch of rakhi amid restricted movement of trains and flights due to spread of Coronavirus. The department is witnessing heavy load of rakhis due to lack of regular train and flight services. Adding a new facility, it has also made special waterproof envelopes to courier rakhis.  The department has set up a counter at GPO for selling envelopes and rakhis made by a women self-help group.  Department of posts, Indore regional office assistant director Om Prakash Chouhan said, “We have made special arrangements to dispatching rakhis in this pandemic. A special counter has been set up to sell waterproof envelopes at Rs 10 per piece. We are getting a lot of orders because other transportation modes are not able to function properly.” The department anticipates to get rakhi orders by August 1. Until last year, the department was sending rakhis via trains and airways, but this year most of the load is going through mail motors. In Indore, six mail motors are working to dispatch rakhis in different districts. Though restrictions due to Covid-19 are causing delay in shipments, orders are pouring in, said officials from the department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/six-mail-motors-waterproof-envelop-for-dispatch/articleshow/77208301.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Lucknow||CM asks Sr officials to monitor situation||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has deputed senior bureaucrats to visit four districts on Tuesday to assess measures being adopted to control the spread of Covid-19 cases. The CM has asked industrial and infrastructure development commissioner Alok Tandon and additional chief secretary (health) to visit Bareilly and Moradabad, while additional chief secretary (health education) Rajneesh Dube and additional chief secretary (rural development and Panchayati Raj) Manoj Kumar Singh have been asked to visit Agra and Aligarh. The teams have been asked to review the situation in districts, condition of beds and hospitals, availability of medicines, home quarantine patients and door-to-door survey. An official said the CM was focusing on districts where the number of cases is high or constantly increasing. In Agra, the number of cases reported per day is coming down slightly. At least 20 cases were reported on Sunday while 42 cases were reported on Monday. In Aligarh, 46 cases registered on Sunday which went up to 54 on Monday. Bareilly recorded 101 and 114 cases on Sunday and Monday, respectively, while in Moradabad, the number of cases dipped from 103 on Sunday to 32 on Monday. Chief secretary RK Tiwari and additional chief secretary (health) Amit Mohan Prasad visited Kanpur, Jhansi, Prayagraj and Mirzapur over the weekend and shared their findings with the CM during the Team 11 meeting on Monday. Yogi has also asked officials to improve facilities in Covid hospitals and said that in L-1 Covid hospitals, at least 50% beds should have arrangement for oxygen. “In L-2 hospitals, all beds should have oxygen while in L-3 hospitals, all beds should have oxygen and ventilators. CCTV cameras should be compulsorily installed in all Covid wards,” the CM said. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said the CM also issued directives for increasing the number of beds in all Covid hospitals for which an officer should be deputed to assess the requirement of each hospital. “The CM has asked officials to use Covid fund to fulfill requirement of ventilators. Simultaneously, officials should also remain in touch with patients who are in home isolation,” Awasthi said. Meanwhile, as the number of containment zones grew to 6,500 with more than 11 lakh people under surveillance, the CM said that homeguard and NCC cadets be deputed in these areas to ensure necessary services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-asks-sr-officials-to-monitor-situation/articleshow/77208929.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Nagpur||Optimizing locations of EMVs can cut travel time: Study||Nagpur: A study by a VNIT student has found that ambulances or emergency medical vehicles (EMVs) can reduce travel time by almost 10 minutes by optimizing their locations through Google Maps API data. Nitisha Jain is a postgraduate student of transport engineering at VNIT. Her study has revealed that at an ambulance takes almost 25 minutes to reach a spot from its designated place. “Implementing the optimized parking system can cover all spots within 16 minutes and 71% of the crash sites can be covered in under 10 minutes,” Jain’s study revealed. It emphasized on the state-government run ambulance facility. Currently, Nagpur city has 21 ambulances (17 basic and four advanced). They are at the emergency medical stations (EMS) to attend to calls pertaining to injuries and road accidents. The ambulances are parked at different primary health centres across the city. The study used the same fleet for optimization of EMS locations and also to identify their shortest travel path to the site. The new locations for EMS could be any government building like a hospital, police station, fire station etc.The identified accident black spots were taken as the demand sites for this study. Using the geographical locations of the demand sites and possible EMS, a software code was written by using python programming language in Jupyter Notebook to optimize the location of EMS and to minimize the response time. This was possible using the Google Maps API data which contains historic as well as real travel time information on the city road network. The travel time on the city roads were extracted from the Google Distance Matrix API using another python program. The travel time obtained from the API data was physically verified to validate the output. The EMS locations are critical because they define how much time an ambulance will take to reach an accident site or in technical terminology, a demand site.The EMS locations should be such that they can cater to any demand site in the city in minimum time. The current emergency system takes almost 25 minutes to reach a crash site from an EMS. Moreover, the existing system would not be able to cater to double coverage, which means that if an ambulance is busy in an area with a victim and simultaneously another accident happens in that area or the capacity of the ambulance is not sufficient to take all the victims, then in this scenario, the second accident would not be covered within the existing 25 minute response time.With this background, Jain, under the supervision of Dr Udit Jain and Dr V S Landge from VNIT Nagpur and Dr Ankit Kathuria from IIT Jammu, took up research work to optimize the EMV locations in Nagpur City using the existing fleet of ambulances using real time network travel time information.The research focused on ambulances responding to road accidents in minimum time following the shortest time path and establishing new optimized locations of EMS to reduce the response time and incorporate double coverage in the emergency response system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/optimizing-locations-of-emvs-can-cut-travel-time-study/articleshow/77208273.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 28, 2020||Dehradun||224 new Covid-19 cases, 3 deaths reported in U’khand||Dehradun: Uttarakhand on Monday recorded 224 fresh cases, raising the infection tally in the state to 6,328. Also, three deaths of Covid-19 patients were reported from Rishikesh and Haldwani on the day, taking the toll of the virus in the state to 66. “The maximum of 118 cases were reported from Haridwar district. Among these, 78 were contacts of earlier positive cases. This is the second time in the last one week when Haridwar has reported cases in triple digits,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 war room. In view of the rising cases, more than 50 more containment zones were created in Haridwar on Monday. Now, the district has 237 containment zones while the entire state has 274 containment zones. On the day, Nainital reported 48 cases. All these fresh cases were contacts of patients found positive earlier. Udham Singh Nagar also recorded 30 new cases. The travel history of these new cases wasn’t available. Dehradun and Uttarkashi also reported 10 new cases each, followed by three cases each from Almora and Pithoragarh, and one case each from Rudraprayag and Tehri. According to the health department, the infection rate has reached 4.8 in the state. The recovery rate has also declined to 58%. Talking about three deaths that were reported on Monday, Tripathi informed that a 28-year-old Covid-19 positive man died at AIIMS Rishikesh due to cardiac arrest, tubercular meningitis, aspiration pneumonitis, and type 1 respiratory failure. “Another 30-year-old Covid-19 positive man died at Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College due to ARDS, type 1 respiratory failure, pancytopenia, bilateral pneumonitis, acute kidney injury, septicemia, and shock. The third death was of a 70-year-old man, who died of acute respiratory distress, type 1 respiratory failure, acute kidney injury, bilateral pleural effusion, bilateral pneumonitis, and shock,” added Tripathi. In some relief, 109 coronavirus patients recovered fully on the day. With this, the total number of recoveries has now reached 3,675.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/224-new-covid-19-cases-3-deaths-reported-in-ukhand/articleshow/77205262.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 28, 2020||Vadodara||Seven-feet long croc rescued||Vadodara: A seven-feet-long crocodile was rescued from a village in Karjan late on Sunday night. The reptile had ventured into a pond in Moti Koral village some days ago. Locals said that it had hunted some dogs and goats and was giving a scare to the villagers. The locals contacted Wildlife Rescue Trust (WRT) volunteers who set a trap near the pond. WRT volunteers said that the pond is home to another adult crocodile that is yet to be rescued. They believe that the reptiles must have made the pond their home after migrating from some nearby water body. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/seven-feet-long-croc-rescued/articleshow/77205283.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Chennai||No demand: Colleges in Tamil Nadu scrap basic courses||CHENNAI: Engineering colleges are discontinuing basic engineering degrees such as electrical and electronics engineering, and civil engineering due to poor enrollment. A total of 130 engineering colleges in Tamil Nadu have scrapped around 300 UG and PG degree programmes from 2020-21, according to data released by All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). At the undergraduate level, 29 colleges have discontinued civil engineering, and 20 colleges will no more offer electronics and electrical engineering. Courses such as embedded systems, communication systems, power electronics and drives, applied electronics and MCA degrees were discontinued at PG level. Sixty engineering colleges have discontinued their PG courses from 2020-21. “Students study postgraduate courses mainly to join teaching professions. But the demand for teachers has fallen. Due to lack of job opportunities, very few graduates are joining PG courses and colleges need PhD holders to run PG degrees. It is not financially viable,” said M A Maluk Mohammed, director and correspondent of MAM College of Engineering and Technology, Trichy. “Student intake has come down drastically in courses such as civil engineering, and electrical and electronics engineering programmes,” career consultant Jayaprakash Gandhi said. “Colleges need qualified faculty members and advanced labs to run PG courses. Almost 70% to 80% seats are vacant due to less job opportunities,” he said. If PG courses continue to be scrapped, engineering colleges may not find enough graduates for teaching positions in the future. “Overall, discontinuing UG and PG courses is not a good practice,” said Anna University vice-chancellor M K Surappa. “Unfortunately, the graduates of the branches are not able to find jobs. Students are selecting branches based on market boom. But students from all branches can get jobs provided they learn new skills and innovate,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-demand-colleges-scrap-basic-courses/articleshow/77208290.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Dehradun||‘Gupta wedding was grave error by state’||Nainital: The high court (HC) on Monday said that the state government had made ‘a grave error’ in approving the week-long celebrations for the weddings of sons of South Africa-based businessmen – the Gupta brothers – without any assessment of waste generation. The observations came from the bench of Justice Sudhanshu Dhulia and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe. Disposing of a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed to highlight the environmental damage caused by the lavish wedding in the Himalayan region, the court said that since Auli is a prominent skiing and adventure sports destination, the government must remain focused in these areas and that Auli should never again be a destination for large events like the one it witnessed last year. The HC also directed the state government to constitute an expert committee within four weeks, to examine whether there is a need to identify biodiversity heritage sites in the state. The committee shall include the state tourism secretary, forest secretary and environment secretary, as well as at least two other experts, the bench ordered. The court further said that the government should get the carrying capacity of Auli determined by the same committee within four weeks and thereafter should fix the carrying capacity within three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/gupta-wedding-was-grave-error-by-state/articleshow/77205293.cms||Prashant Jha
July 28, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat initiatives helped curb Covid-19: IIM-A report||Ahmedabad: From medical mobile vans to reduce the rush at OPDs in hospitals to creating new medical infrastructure especially for Covid-19, Gujarat largely did right things to contain Covid-19, claims a report titled ‘Management of the Covid-19 Pandemic in Gujarat: Understanding the government initiatives, leadership processes and their impact’ by Prof Ranjan Kumar Ghosh of IIM, Ahmedabad, (IIM-A) and his team.“The primary purpose of the exercise was to understand the decision-making process at the time of the epidemic, efficacy of the decisions along with cohesive and interconnected work by different arms of the government machinery,” said Prof Ghosh, adding that this exercise should also be done for other states to create a rich repository for the future to identify best practices.Public HealthA total of 2,200 beds were dedicated to Covid-19 at the onset of the outbreak. This included 1,200 beds in Ahmedabad, 500 in Surat and 250 each in Rajkot and Vadodara. The report also highlighted the public-private partnership (PPP) model of hospital sharing in cities to strengthen health infrastructure in the state. About 96% of the respondents from medical fraternity said that they had received protective gear. Researchers said that health, sanitation and hygiene campaigns yielded the desired results.Law and orderThe report lauds the role of Gujarat police, saying that the force quickly adapted to the challenging situation of enforcing the lockdown and curfew. ‘The police force supplemented their strategy with technology to expand its capacity for enforcement and surveillance. Drones, hydrogen balloons, patrolling cars were seen at every nook and corner of the state, the report stated. Use of technologyInitiatives such as the CM’s dashboard, CCTV surveillance, coordination between various government arms and officials helped faster communication and effective surveillance. About 97% of administrative workers surveyed said that they had installed the Aarogya Setu app.Handling the migrant labour issueIn a matter of 20 days, over 1,000 Shramik Special trains were plied from Gujarat to various destinations in India to transport 14.8 lakh workers, which was about a quarter of the total workers transported in India. ‘It was made possible through mobilising an extensive network of local administrations, NGOs, police, and social groups. The fact that the Gujarat administration could reach out to such a vast number of migrant population and arrange for their safe travel along with sufficient supply of food and water is a case worth studying for public administration,’ the report stated.Inside the Gujarat Model- Initiatives such as Dhanvantari Rath (mobile medical van), Anna Brahma Yojana for food distribution to non-ration card holders, hydrogen balloon-based surveillance, direct monitoring through the CM’s dashboard, active awareness campaigns, migrant labour support team and fee waivers for essential utilities- Decision to establish exclusive Covid-19 hospitals in four major cities helped in timely treatment and boosted the recovery rate- Schemes for food and grain supply also benefited migrants and those outside the food security net - About 96% of corona warriors received the necessary protective gear - About 26% of India’s total migrant workers were transported through 1,008 Shramik Special trains||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-initiatives-helped-curb-covid-19-iim-a-report/articleshow/77208325.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Pandemic breaks barriers, brings doctors closer||CHENNAI: “The pandemic has brought us all closer not only professionally but also personally. Which I think would not have happened in any other circumstance,” said Dr N Ramakrishnan, director of critical care services, Apollo Hospitals. Since the Covid-19 outbreak, doctors and healthcare workers in the city have been finding different ways to help one another and cope with the crisis -- from creating WhatsApp buddy groups to holding talks to making video calls to check on juniors. “When the first lockdown was imposed, we were all stressed and overburdened. But as the days passed, we realized that we have to come out of it and create a healthy atmosphere. And when we made the effort, things changed,” said A Nirosha, a senior nurse. Nirosha said every day after lunch, the nurses spend at least 15 minutes talking or sharing their experience either on the campus or through WhatsApp. “Our senior doctors also join the conversations, we can see that everyone feels better, confident and unwind,” she said. A few hospitals, like Apollo, have created separate unwinding rooms where doctors, nurses and other staff can sit, relax and share their experiences. “We insist that they take regular breaks and during that time another person takes charge,” said Dr Ramakrishnan. He said they insist all the staff avail leaves compulsorily and none of them are disturbed during that time. Many also have WhatsApp groups where members discuss non-Covid information such as movies, songs and share jokes. These have helped dismantling the hierarchy to some extent. “Social connectedness is the most important during this time and this is what keeps them going,” said Dr Yamini Kannappan, consultant psychiatrist, Kauvery Hospital. She said the pandemic and its uncertainty has impacted the mental health of several healthcare professionals, especially the young and new nurses, and house surgeons. “Many of them are worried that they might infect their family and a few also miss their families because they live in other districts. This is the time to build relationships. And when a senior doctor joins the discussion, it makes a huge impact,” she said. “It’s been 25 years since I graduated, and I have never been closer to my MBBS batchmates before,” said Dr Yamini.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pandemic-breaks-barriers-brings-doctors-closer/articleshow/77208333.cms||Aditi R
July 28, 2020||Dehradun||CM announces free schooling for meritorious students from weak financial background||Dehradun: In an online interaction with students, Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat announced a state-of-the-art school for meritorious children coming from financially weak backgrounds. The students would be provided free education and best possible teaching faculty along with a good infrastructure. In a state government’s e-Samvaad programme, the CM said that the state is going to come up with a school for meritorious students. “To get admission in this school – which will be from Class VI to Class XII – aspirants will have to clear a state-level entrance exam,” the CM informed. While fees would be charged from students coming from good financial backgrounds, education in the institution would be free for those coming from financially weak backgrounds. The CM assured the best possible teaching, infrastructure and facilities in this school. Addressing the students, CM Rawat said that there should be a strong sense of patriotism in all of them and “doing something for the nation should be the ultimate goal of their life”. He advised such students to take inspiration from Lord Hanuman — who did not relax till the time his mission was over — to succeed in their lives and careers. CM Rawat maintained that the state government was committed to improving the quality of higher education in the state and to that end, a national law college will be opened soon. He added that for graduation and research work, the government is planning a residential science college in the state. He assured the students of the required help. The CM did not fail to mention that when a student from Chamoli backed admission in the esteemed London School of Arts, the state government made all arrangements. Similarly, the state government also provided financial assistance to a student who went to New Zealand for education. He urged students to draw inspiration from former President APJ Abdul Kalam. “He wanted to join the armed forces but could not clear the interview held in Dehradun. Later, he went to Rishikesh and took guidance from a saint and rose to great heights,” added CM Rawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-announces-free-schooling-for-meritorious-students-from-weak-financial-background/articleshow/77205323.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 28, 2020||Nagpur||After visiting Wardha, Reshimbagh and Deekshabhoomi, guv to return today||Nagpur: Amid the Covid pandemic, state governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari was on a weeklong tour to Nagpur. A senior official in Raj Bhavan said this was part of his routine visit to the city. “The governor is free to visit any of the Raj Bhavans in the state. It is the official residence of the governor,” said the official. Koshyari is returning to Mumbai on Tuesday. During his stay, Koshyari visited Mahatma Gandhi’s Sewagram Ashram and Vinoba Bhave’s Paunar Ashram in Wardha. This was followed by a visit to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s (RSS) Smruti Mandir complex at Reshimbagh and the Deekshabhoomi on Monday. The official said all precautions laid down under Covid prevention protocol were followed. The official said two days ago Raj Bhavan staffers were tested for Covid and the area was sanitized. “During his movement, proper physical distancing was maintained. The governor expressed a wish to visit these places. There was no risk of infection as he did not meet the public,” he said. On Koshyari’s visit to Reshimbagh, an RSS functionary said, “A number of dignitaries who come to Nagpur pay homage to RSS founder Dr Keshav Hedgewar.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-visiting-wardha-reshimbagh-and-deekshabhoomi-guv-to-return-today/articleshow/77208341.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Lucknow||Azam son, Siddiqui may have to surrender over 2 yrs’ salary||Lucknow: Abdullah Azam Khan, son of imprisoned Samajwadi Party MLA Azam Khan and Congress leader Mohammed Nasimuddin Siddiqui, who have already lost the membership of Legislative Assembly and Legislative Council respectively, are now all set to lose more. Both the leaders may have to surrender pay, perks and even the development funds that they have withdrawn in two years as they have lost the membership with retrospective effect. Siddiquihas been declared disqualified since February 2, 2018 and Abdullah since March 2017. If it would happen it would be a first in the state’s history. Abdullah Azam was disqualified from the Assembly as his birth and educational certificates were found to be fake. He was disqualified for not meeting the minimum age criteria and his disqualification came into effect from the day of his election. Currently, Abdullah is languishing in jail along with his father Azam Khan, MP from Rampur, who has been slapped nearly 100 criminal cases by the Yogi government. Azam’s wife Tazeen Fatima, a Rajya Sabha member, is also in jail. Qazim Ali, a senior Congress leader and political opponent of the Khan family, has moved an application before the state Assembly seeking recovery of pay and perks from the disqualifiedMLA. The Assembly secretariat has sought legal opinion on the issue and the state law department has confirmed that recoveries could be made since the member has been disqualified with retrospective effect. An official spokesman of the Assembly, too, has confirmed receiving the opinion of the law department in this regard. Similar is the case of Nasimuddin Siddiqui who has been disqualified with effect from 2018. A topBSP functionary with legal background is moving a petition before the Council for the recovery of pay and perks from Siddiqui, who, without resigning from the Council, had contested from the Congress ticket in 2019 parliamentary elections. On the BSP’s petition, Siddiqui has been disqualified from the Council. If the petitioners against Abdulla Azam and Nasimuddin stick to their petitions, this would be a rare case of recovery of salaries from elected representatives. Contrary to this, two Congress MLAs Aditi Singh and Rakesh Singh must be taking a huge sigh of relief for not losing their Assembly memberships. Both of them are supporting the Yogi government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/azam-son-siddiqui-may-have-to-surrender-over-2-yrs-salary/articleshow/77208959.cms||Subhash Mishra
July 28, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government allows street vendors to resume business||NEW DELHI: Delhi government on Monday passed an order allowing street vendors and hawkers to resume business. It also wants Delhi Metro services and all establishments like cinema halls, gyms and hotels, shut since the announcement of the Covid-19 lockdown, to restart operations with adequate preventive measures during Unlock 3, said a source. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is planning to write to the Centre for resumption of the metro services as it has affected footfall in markets. The decision on opening other activities will also depend upon the Centre’s guidelines for Unlock 3. Street hawkers will be allowed to operate from 10am to 8pm every day and will have to adhere to all safety measures to avoid the spread of Covid-19, Kejriwal said. Street vendors and hawkers who mostly depend on daily income for their livelihood are among the worst hit due to the lockdown. Some vendors have started operating in isolated pockets but they are still missing in most key commercial points.“Due to some confusion, street hawkers were not allowed to work. Delhi government is now taking out special orders under which street vendors and hawkers will be allowed to operate their businesses,” the chief minister said. “It is due to the hard work, prudence and caution of two crore people of Delhi that the situation has improved significantly in the past few weeks,” he said, adding that the Delhi model highlighting how everybody came together to fight Covid-19 was being widely discussed and appreciated across the country and the world. Delhi’s recovery rate is now 88% and the rate of active cases is only 9%, while only 2-3% people have lost their lives, the chief minister said. “The number of dead has seen a drastic decline in the past few days. On Sunday, there were just 21 deaths, and this figure used to be more than 100 in June,” he pointed out. Out of around 15,500 beds in the hospitals across the city, 12,500 are vacant, he added. In June, Delhi was second in terms of Covid-19 cases in the country. “Today Delhi is at the 10th position. When the situation got much worse in June, we did not lose hope, did all the planning, talked to experts and with cooperation from all, the people of Delhi have collectively worked to control corona in Delhi,” Kejriwal said. Urging people not to be complacent, he said, “Please use masks, we do not know when corona may strike again.” Watch Delhi government passes an order allowing street vendors to resume business||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-govt-allows-street-vendors-to-resume-business/articleshow/77208335.cms||AlokKNMishra
July 28, 2020||Dehradun||Cong holds protest, says BJP trying to topple elected govts||Dehradun: Senior Congress members, including party's state general secretary Harish Rawat and state chief Pritam Singh, led a protest against the ongoing political developments in Rajasthan. The Congress members, led by their stalwarts, staged a march from the party office to Governor's house in Dehradun. However, the police team stopped them near the Hathibarkala barricading, where the Congress members sat on a protest. Congress members also had a minor scuffle with policemen as some of the opposition members tried to jump over the barricading. “Democracy is under threat as the CM of Rajasthan is requesting an assembly session to take key decisions relating to public welfare but he is not being given permission by the Governor due to the pressure from the Centre,” said Singh. He added that the “trend to topple elected governments which started in Uttarakhand has been replicated by the BJP in other states like Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Goa and now Rajasthan.” Former CM Harish Rawat said that he had faced a similar situation in 2016. “It is a shame that BJP is trying to bring down a democratically elected government. Madhya Pradesh is a recent example. The public mandate was against them,” ex-CM Rawat said while adding that the Congress members will not sit silent over the issue and hold protests in the state and across the country. Congress state vice president Suryakant Dhasmana pointed out that at a time when the country is fighting against Covid-19, “the BJP is busy in bringing down the democratically elected government in states.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cong-holds-protest-says-bjp-trying-to-topple-elected-govts/articleshow/77205353.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 28, 2020||Dehradun||5-yr-old elephant hit by train near Dehradun, dies||Dehradun: A five-year-old male elephant died after being hit by the Dehradun-New Delhi Jan Shatabdi Express on Monday morning near Harrawala railway station, located close to Dehradun. The accident happened near Nakronda village of the district. According to forest officials, the jumbo was part of a herd of elephants that was crossing the track when the accident took place. “The pachyderm did not sustain any major injuries on its body but it died after falling into a deep nullah likely due to air pressure generated by the speeding train,” said Ghananan Uniyal, range officer of Lachhiwala forest range. According to the onlookers, the train had halted for some time after the accident. Sources told TOI that the forest department is mulling to register a case against the driver of the train. Barely 72 hours before, the decomposed carcass of another elephant had been found in Rajaji Tiger Reserve. Since the formation of the state in 2000, Uttarakhand has lost a total of 15 elephants to train accidents. The maximum deaths happened in 2018 when four elephants had died in train accidents, according to the data available with the state forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/5-yr-old-elephant-hit-by-train-near-dehradun-dies/articleshow/77204272.cms||Shivani Azad
July 28, 2020||Nagpur||Committee formed to decide on lockdown, modalities: Raut||Nagpur: Guardian minister Nitin Raut announced on Monday that if a lockdown was announced for Nagpur in the coming days, the modalities will be such that livelihoods will not be affected.“What is the use of a lockdown if poor people can’t afford one time’s meal due to cessation of economic activity,” he said.The minister made it clear that if a lockdown is imposed, it would continue for fourteen days and would be accompanied by curfew.Addressing a press conference, Raut said that a committee had been constituted under divisional commissioner for deciding whether a lockdown should be imposed and its modalities. “The committee also has municipal commissioner, district collector, police commissioner and superintendent of police (Nagpur Rural) as members,” he added.“If a lockdown is imposed, it will be a ‘smart’ one. Economic activity will be considered. We will ensure that poor people don’t go hungry. Food packets will be distributed among them and relief camps would be set up. Relaxations will be given in containment zones as soon as number of cases decrease,” said the minister.According to the minister, lockdown had increased hunger and made many people depressed. “We will have to consider these things while taking decision,” said Raut.He further said that lockdown will be imposed only after consultation with government officers and media persons. “We will not impose it suddenly. Four days will be given to people to buy essential goods,” he added.The minister himself admitted that lockdowns had failed in many developing countries including India. “That is why it has to be of fourteen days and accompanied by curfew,” he said.Without naming BJP, Raut charged that Covid-19 cases had started increasing ever since its leaders had started targeting municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe. “If the cases in Nagpur were lower initially it was solely due to the efforts of our officers. They must not forget that law empowers the municipal commissioner to impose a lockdown,” he said.Earlier, divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar gave a presentation on the Covid-19 situation in the six districts of Nagpur division. He said that the district was doing quite well as far as combating the pandemic was concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/committee-formed-to-decide-on-lockdown-modalities-raut/articleshow/77206982.cms||Ashish Roy
July 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Pkl admn, industry get set for Khelo India games||Panchkula: Announcement of Panchkula as the host for the “Khelo India Youth Games” has sent the local administration into overdrive. No effort is being spared to provide the best infrastructure for the event. For local hoteliers and businessmen, this comes as a much-needed ray of hope. They feel this may be the stimulus they need to get cash registers ringing again. When contacted, Haryana Assembly Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta said he had spoken to Haryana chief minister (CM) soon after the announcement and the CM assured him that all possible preparations would be made. Khattar also assured Gupta of support from the state government. Gupta described this as an exciting opportunity for Panchkula and surrounding areas. In 2020, more than 10,000 players participated in the Khelo India games held in Guwahati. More players are expected to participate in 2021. “Comprehensive sports infrastructure will be developed in Panchkula for this event and the economy will be strengthened due to large-scale residential arrangements,” said Gupta. He said the event would be taken as an opportunity for Panchkula to develop a comprehensive framework of sports. A meeting will be held with all hoteliers, administration and sports department in this regard. Police officials will also be included in the meeting to prepare a plan for law and order situation, he added. Gupta thanked Union sports minister Kiren Rijiju, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and state sports minister Sandeep Singh for giving Panchkula a chance to host the event. The name of Panchkula was decided on in a meeting held through video conferencing in the presence of Union sports minister Kiren Rijiju, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, sports minister Sandeep Singh and senior officials of the sports ministry in Delhi. Matches will take place after 2021 Tokyo Olympics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pkl-admn-industry-get-set-for-khelo-india-games/articleshow/77206993.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
July 28, 2020||Vadodara||Commendation disc award for 2 IPS officers||Vadodara/Rajkot: City police commissioner Anupam Singh Gahlaut and Amreli district superintendent of police (DS) Nirlipt Rai along with other cops were awarded with the ‘DGP’s commendation disc’ for the extraordinary work done in their areas. Four other policemen from Vadodara city and one police constable from Amreli were also given the award that the state government initiated for the first time this year. ACP BB Rathod got the award for his investigations into rape and murder of a two-year-old girl that led to the accused’s conviction during his tenure in Rajkot. Karelibaug police inspector, R I Jadeja has been awarded for his work during the floods in the city last year while woman’s police inspector, J R Solanki was recognized for her active work in solving women’s cases. Traffic constable Anees Mohammed Niyaz Mohammed also bagged the award for being pro-active their duties. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/commendation-disc-award-for-2-ips-officers/articleshow/77205358.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Chandigarh||Phase XI, rehri markets to get Rs 70 lakh facelift||Mohali: Punjab cabinet minister and local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu laid the foundation stone for facelift of the phase XI and rehri markets, which will be done at a cost of Rs 70 lakh. After laying the foundation stone, Sidhu said Rs 58 lakh would be spent on facelift and provision of other amnesties at the Phase XI main market whereas Rs 12 lakh would be spent on provision of various amnesties in the rehri market. “Facelift of the phase XI market had been due for the past many years though many developmental works have been taken up in this phase through area councillor and former deputy mayor Rishab Jain. Now, the facelift of parking lot, public toilets, green belts, proper walkways and fixing of paver blocks are on the charts in the main market. In the rehri market, proper lighting, relaying of walkways and repair of booths will be done,” he said. According to Sidhu, tenders have been allotted and work orders have been issued by the Mohali municipal corporation. He said the market area would be beautified. Parking space will be provided with proper markings and lighting. In the rehri market, where market repair was long due, a separate tender has been allotted. Work on facelift will start this week. Repair of roads leading to the market will also be included in the project. If required, extra funds will be arranged for the makeover, said Sidhu. Former deputy mayor Rishab Jain said earlier, Rs 2 crore was spent on upgrade of sewerage pipeline, Rs 1.35 crore on water supply augmentation, Rs 80 lakh on upgrade of storm water pipelines, Rs 9 lakh for public toilets, Rs 11 lakh on traffic lights and Rs 8 lakh for new bus queue shelters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/phase-xi-rehri-markets-to-get-rs-70-lakh-facelift/articleshow/77207002.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Dehradun||Ganga water, sand from Har-ki- Pauri, soil from Badrinath to be used in Ram temple’s foundation laying at Ayodhya||yyyyyyyyyyHaridwar: Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) officials, accompanied by Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Nyas member Yugapurush Swami Paramanand Giri and governor Baby Rani Maurya, reached the Har-ki-Pauri ghat at Haridwar on Monday morning to collect Gangajal and sand from the riverbed to be taken to Ayodhya. These, along with soil from Badrinath and water from Alakananda river, will be used in laying the foundation of the Ram temple on August 5 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, VHP officials said. VHP workers will carry the Badrinath soil and Alakananda water to Haridwar on July 28. On August 2, Yugapurush Paramanand Giri and a representative of the state government will carry all the items to Ayodhya, district VHP president Nitin Gautam said. Meanwhile, the ash immersion ceremony of MP governor Lalji Tandon was also conducted in Haridwar on Monday. It was attended among others by governor Baby Rani Maurya as well as BJP leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ganga-water-sand-from-har-ki-pauri-soil-from-badrinath-to-be-used-in-ram-temples-foundation-laying-at-ayodhya/articleshow/77204279.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
July 28, 2020||Dehradun||Former CM Harish Rawat, state congress chief among 30 party workers booked for unlawful assembly||Dehradun: Former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat, state Congress chief Pritam Singh and former Cabinet minister Hira Singh Bisht were among some 30 Congress members booked on Monday for unlawful assembly. They organized a rally, allegedly without permission. The group of around 200 people, led by Rawat, planned to gherao the governor’s house in protest against the Rajasthan political crisis. The procession was stopped at Hathibarkala by police, which resulted in heated arguments and a minor scuffle. A case was consequently filed under sections 145 (unlawful assembly), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from discharging his duty) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/former-cm-harish-rawat-state-congress-chief-among-30-party-workers-booked-for-unlawful-assembly/articleshow/77205362.cms||Gaurav Talwar
July 28, 2020||Lucknow||‘Without judicial review, BSP whip is meaningless’||Lucknow: Amid the ongoing political drama in Rajasthan, BSP general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra issued a whip to its six MLAs in the state on Sunday, saying that they must not support the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government in case of a no-confidence motion. However, all six had joined Congress in September 2019 in a move that was not challenged by BSP in a court of law and subsequently upheld by the Rajasthan Speaker. Constitutional experts say that such whips will be pointless since the Speaker has already ruled that the merger is permissible, unless BSP seeks judicial recourse in the matter. In the Rajya Sabha elections held in mid-June this year, the party had issued a whip and had asked the Speaker for seat allotment so that a BSP representative could keep an eye on the votes being cast by its party members. The request was rejected by the Speaker who had said that the party did not have any MLAs since they had defected to Congress nine months back. “This decision of the Speaker of September 18, 2019 and then during the Rajya Sabha elections was not challenged in court. The party missed out on two opportunities where it would have been on strong ground to challenge the defection. The six members who defected have been calling it a merger between BSP and Congress but they are nobody to decide a merger between two national parties. Had BSP challenged this defection in court then itself, there was a strong chance it would have won the case,” said a senior party member, privy to the developments. In March this year, BJP MLA Madan Dilawar filed a petition with the Speaker of the Rajasthan Assembly, challenging the “merger” of the six BSP MLAs with Congress and seeking their disqualification. In July, he approached the Rajasthan high court for declaring the merger void and challenging the inaction of the Speaker in not deciding on his plea. The plea was dismissed by the court on Monday. Constitutional expert Subhash Kashyap said that the Speaker’s decision is subject to judicial review, saying that he or she acts like a tribunal under the anti-defection law. “If the Speaker has recognised the merger, then BSP can go to court against the decision. However, whether or not the members follow the party’s whip, their votes on the floor of the house will be considered valid. The Speaker’s, whatever it may be, will be subject to judicial review,” he said. Despite repeated attempts, party general secretary SC Mishra and state in charge Ashok Siddharth could not be contacted for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/without-judicial-review-bsp-whip-is-meaningless/articleshow/77208988.cms||Neha Lalchandani
July 28, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Govt hospitals ready ‘suspect Covid-19 wards’||C HENNAI: Greater Chennai Corporation has instructed government hospitals in the city to ready a ‘suspect Covid-19 ward’ to admit patients who are wheeled in with complaints of breathlessness but are not confirmed Covid-19 cases. Corporation commissioner G Prakash said this was done to bring down the Covid-19 mortality rate in the city. “The wards were started at all government medical college hospitals. We conducted a meeting with all deans regarding it,” he said. At present, Chennai’s Covid-19 fatality rate is 2.12% with the highest being at Teynampet (2.98%) and Tiruvottiyur (2.93%). Dr Vasantha, dean of Kilpauk Medical College and Hospital, told TOI that 28 beds have been kept for such suspect Covid-19 patients. “This is known as a triage Covid ward which comes equipped with a ventilator and oxygen supply,” she said. “Patients with breathlessness are immediately shifted here and a swab sample is taken. If it turns positive, they are immediately sent to the Covid isolation ward,” Dr Vasantha said. Dr S Subramanian, an infectious diseases expert, said suspect Covid wards was a concept “rooted in common sense and it would bring a lot of relief to relatives” of a patient. “The idea is to not cohort Covid patients and suspected-Covid patients. Though the ideal scenario would be to have patients in a separate room, keeping their beds well separated can avoid minimum risk of contamination,” he said. Public health experts and corporation doctors said Covid-19 patients experience sudden hypoxia, where the body is suddenly deprived of adequate oxygen. At corporation-run fever camps, if the oxygen saturation is around 90% or below, the patient is immediately asked to rush to a hospital. Similarly, if a chest x-ray shows white spots, doctors start Covid-19 treatment even if the swab tests haven’t confirmed it. The corporation has put out a public notice on its social media pages asking people not to neglect breathlessness as it is a symptom of Covid-19. Residents have been requested to contact nearby health workers, medical professionals and outreach workers. The control room can be contacted at 044-46122300 and 044-25384520.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-hospitalsready-suspect-covid-19-wards/articleshow/77208351.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
July 28, 2020||India||India and China should firmly resist US ‘hegemonism’: Beijing||NEW DELHI: Claiming that some US politicians looked at China with a Cold War mentality and sought containment, the Chinese embassy on Monday said countries like India and China should firmly resist “hegemonism and power politics”. US-China ties have hit a new low with China shutting down the US consulate in Chengdu in retaliation to the US move to close the Chinese consulate in Houston. “Some US politicians always view China with Cold War mentality, instigating containment, ideological confrontation and anti-China clique. US kept turning away from international treaties and organisations and selectively applied international law. International community knows who is real trouble-maker and threat,” the embassy spokesperson tweeted. “India is an emerging economy in the world and adheres to strategic independence. China and India should resolutely oppose any act of reversing the wheel of history, firmly resist hegemonism and power politics, and resolutely promote democratisation and legalisation of international relations,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-and-china-should-firmly-resist-us-hegemonism-beijing/articleshow/77210335.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Vadodara||Five convicts jump parole||Vadodara: Five convicts lodged at Vadodara Central Jail were booked on Monday for not returning to jail after their parole period ended. The five accused identified as Kirit Patanwadiya, Sandeep Balwani, Jitu Jadav and Mojudmiya Malek, and Ramesh Patel were allowed a parole of 60 days. However, none of have returned. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/five-convicts-jump-parole/articleshow/77205406.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand HC quashes Centre’s decision to establish permanent NIT campus in landslide-prone Sumari in Pauri Garhwal, calls it ‘irrational, unreasonable, arbitrary’||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Monday quashed the Centre’s decision to establish a permanent campus for National Institute of Technology (NIT), Uttarakhand, at Sumari in Pauri Garhwal. Disposing a PIL filed by a former NIT student, the bench of Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe, in its judgement, called the decision ‘irrational, unreasonable, arbitrary and falling foul of Article 14 of the Constitution of India’ after the Centre said that the campus was being made at Sumari primarily to end the impasse between the central and state governments. Sumari is a landslide-prone zone and the decision to have a campus here was also questioned by experts. The court in its judgement directed the Centre to “take considered decision on establishing the permanent campus of NIT within four months.” The Centre, by its own admission, had taken the decision to establish the campus at Sumari in Pauri Garhwal district – around 15 km from its existing location in Srinagar town – to end the impasse with the state government. Students however had been against the move arguing that Sumari is a landslide and earthquake-prone location and the security of students as well as the NIT staff has not been taken into consideration. The petitioner, Jasveer Singh, an alumni of NIT Uttarakhand, had submitted that the area is not only prone to severe landslides, but is also characterised by cheed forests, and steep descents, which would render providing necessary infrastructure there highly dangerous, adding that the area is also prone to earthquakes, and is not fit to build a permanent campus for institutions of higher learning such as the NITs. The court directed the Centre to obtain expert opinion and examine the suitability of Sumari as a permanent location for NIT from the safety angle of students. The court added that the Centre should satisfy itself that construction of campus at Sumari will not endanger the life of students, faculty and staff, and then take a considered decision whether the permanent campus of NIT, Uttarakhand, should still be located at Sumari, or should be shifted elsewhere within the state. The PIL in this matter had been filed after a student of the NIT, Neelam Meena, was paralysed in an accident in October 2018 while crossing the road to attend her class. The students of the institution protested after the accident, boycotting classes and even going to Delhi’s Jantar Mantar to hold demonstrations. Students had alleged that even though the institute was established in 2009 and is an institute of national importance, it has been running in a temporary campus that lacked basic facilities and infrastructure like proper classrooms, hostels or even faculty accommodation. The court also directed the Centre to consider a detailed project report (DPR) submitted for provisions at the temporary campus and release the funds within a period of three months. After the funds are released, the NIT will then initiate an invitation of bids for construction of building and other infrastructure works, the court said, adding that the entire exercise should be completed on or before July 1, 2021. The court further directed the Centre to provide funds to the NIT so that the injured student, Neelam Meena, who had been given a compensation amount of Rs 25 lakh, was provided an additional amount of Rs 25 lakh as compensation within four months. The court said that apart from compensation, NIT will reimburse the medical cost of her treatment so far and the facility of medical reimbursement will be provided to her throughout her life. Meanwhile, Jasveer Singh, who had filed the PIL, termed the HC's judgement “a major victory for the students of NIT.” "The students had been demanding their right for years. We now hope that both the Centre and the NIT administration will comply with the court's order and the students will finally be able to study at a permanent campus very soon," Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-hc-quashes-centres-decision-to-establish-permanent-nit-campus-in-landslide-prone-sumari-in-pauri-garhwal-calls-it-irrational-unreasonable-arbitrary/articleshow/77204292.cms||Prashant Jha
July 28, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: 33% samples tested in Tiruvallur district are from workers||CHENNAI: Tiruvallur district is holding special fever camps for industries, collecting around 1,000 swab samples from workers, almost 33% of the daily samples lifted in the district. An official said the district, bordering Chennai in the north, has many industrial units that are functional. The administration realised that this could lead to potential clusters of Covid cases and hence on a proactive basis started these camps, the official said. Recently, 43 cases were found from a textile unit in Poonamalee. There are around 1,800 registered factories in the district employing 70,000 people. “Twenty-six mobile swab collection vehicles are at the disposal of the health department. Two lab technicians can collect swabs at a time. A unit can collect around 50 to 60 swabs a day,” the health department official said. Around 10% of the samples collected from the industries test positive, the official said. The industrialised blocks in the district include Cholavaram, Gummidipoondi, Puzhal, Poonamalee and Ikkadu. “The schedule for industrial fever camps is announced a day in advance. The block medical officer is in charge of arranging which factory workers are to be tested on a particular day,” the official said. Since a majority of factory workers are young and asymptomatic, they are sent to Covid Care Centres in the district, the official said. “Cases will crop up, though we have advocated physical distancing and wearing of masks on a compulsory basis. But we are being proactive in testing and isolating,” the official said. Till Monday, Tiruvallur district had 12,320 cases of which 3,998 were active. Also, 214 people have died in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/33-samples-tested-in-tiruvallur-districtare-from-workers/articleshow/77208370.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
July 28, 2020||Dehradun||Landslides blocks Mussoorie-Dehradun road fifth time in a month||Mussoorie: A landslide disrupted traffic movement at Mussoorie-Dehradun road on Monday afternoon yet again. This is the fifth time in just one month that landslides have obstructed traffic on this crucial road which connects the hill town to the state capital. On Monday afternoon, a landslide occurred near Galogi Power House and traffic was obstructed for about an hour before the Public Works Department (PWD) was able to restore the stretch for traffic movements. “Such frequent landslides were not so common on this road but these occurrences have become frequent from when the PWD started cutting the mountainside for road widening work. Perhaps the unscientific and reckless cutting are leading to landslides,” opines Shaillendra Karanwal, a local. Residents also mentioned that all the landslides that have occured over the past month were limited to a 500-metre-long stretch and that if proper action was not taken, this stretch would become a hotspot for such disasters. “A landslide zone is developing near Galogi and this is very dangerous. The PWD officials must take note,” cautions Ravi Rawat, another local. Meanwhile, the PWD officials say that road widening is being done systematically and that such landslides are common post any road broadening work. “There is no cause for alarm. We are following proper procedures and no landslide zone would develop,” assured Pushpendra Kumar, junior engineer of PWD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/landslides-blocks-mussoorie-dehradun-road-fifth-time-in-a-month/articleshow/77205402.cms||Anmol Jain
July 28, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi: Plasma collection to begin on Tuesday||RANCHI: The largest hospital in the state, Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims), is all set to start collection of plasma from those who have recovered from Covid-19. The plasma bank will be inaugurated by chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday afternoon. Talking to TOI, an associate professor of blood bank and transfusion medicine, Dr Sushma, said: “As part of our preparations to start the plasma bank at Rims, we conducted a trial run and collected plasma from a normal donor so that we can check the equipment. The trial was successful.” The Rims administration has also constituted a team of six doctors from various departments led by medical superintendent Dr Vivek Kashyap, so that the plasma collection centre can operate smoothly and there are no problems pertaining to coordination. “I along with two doctors each from medicine department, preventive and social medicine along with a critical care expert are part of the team that has been formed to look after the operations of the plasma bank,” Dr Sushma said. Notably, the Rims administration was directed by the state health department to start a plasma bank around a fortnight ago. After receiving the direction, Rims requisitioned an Apheresis machine and IgG kits that are used for plasma collection. On being asked about the availability of equipment at Rims blood bank, medical superintendent Dr Kashyap said: “We will receive IgG kits by Monday evening and we have an Apheresis machine that is used for plasma and platelet collection. If the number of donors increases, we will get another machine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/plasma-collection-to-begin-today/articleshow/77208446.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Ranchi||JMM questions Dubey’s poll affidavit, seeks EC probe||Ranchi: Ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) on Monday shot off a letter to the Election Commission (EC) seeking an investigation into the authenticity of the affidavits filed by three-time BJP MP from Godda Nishikant Dubey. JMM, which is in power in the state with support of Congress and RJD, has expressed doubts over Dubey’s age and educational qualifications mentioned in his three election affidavits. Dubey reacted to the charge by attacking chief minister Hemant Soren, who is also the working president of JMM. Supriyo Bhattacharya, the central general secretary of JMM, said Dubey in his affidavit in 2009 had stated his age as 37 years and said he passed the matriculation examination from DPM High School, Karharia under Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) in 1982. Bhattacharya said, “Dubey was 37 years old in 2009, 42 years old in 2014 and 47 years old in 2019 in the three affidavits filed during each of the parliamentary elections. It meant he was born in 1972.” He added, “If his birth year is 1972, Dubey passed his matriculation examination when he was just 10 years old in 1982.” Expressing doubts over clearing the examination at the age of 10, JMM has sought an investigation on the authenticity of the affidavits. Bhattacharya also raised questions over Dubey’s post-graduation degree from Delhi University. Attaching an RTI reply obtained by one Brijendra Kumar Pandey of Uttar Pradesh, he claimed that there was no person by the name Nishikant Dubey in the department of management studies in Delhi University in 1993, the year Dubey stated he received the degree in the affidavit. “We are not commenting on the RTI application or the reply given by the Delhi University but if there are doubts over the degree, either Dubey should come out publicly with a copy of his degree certificate or the EC should investigate into the matter,” Bhattacharya said. In the first two affidavits of 2009 and 2014, Dubey mentioned in detail his educational qualifications but in the 2019 affidavit, the MP mentioned his highest qualification as Doctorate of Philosophy from the Pratap University in Rajasthan, obtained in the year 2018. There is no mention of matriculation, intermediate, graduation or post-graduation degrees. Dubey could not be reached throughout Monday for a comment on the JMM charge, but posted his reaction on his personal Facebook page. In his post, Dubey targeted Soren and said, “Hemant Soren ji has written a letter to the EC to cancel my membership. The corrupt party which took money for votes has objections to my age, degrees, assets and name of my mother and father. I won’t be a dedicated BJP worker if I don’t bring JMM to its knees. This threatening won’t work.” Reacting to his post, Bhattacharya said JMM had never said anything about Dubey’s parents. “We have sought clarification on age and degree but have said nothing about parents. We hold them in high esteem. We condemn the way Dubey has dragged his parents in the matter,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jmm-questions-dubeys-poll-affidavit-seeks-ec-probe/articleshow/77206713.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
July 28, 2020||Ranchi||DSPMU students protest exams during pandemic period||Ranchi: Students of Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee University (DSPMU) on Monday staged a demonstration and burnt an effigy of the varsity’s vice-chancellor Dr S N Munda to protest against the term-end offline examination for MA/MSc courses scheduled from August 6. During their demonstration from 10 am to 1 pm, the students shut the university’s main gate and display placards with messages like ‘Justice for DSPMU students’ and ‘no examination during Covid’. Most of the university’s officials, including the VC, were not present during the protest. DSPMU Chhatra Sangh secretary Amandeep Munda said, “To conduct the examination when Covid cases are rising sharply in the state would put the students at risk. It should be held after the pandemic is brought under control.” Stating that staying in the city and preparing for the examination would be a huge problem for the students as the hostels are closed, Munda said he hopes to meet the VC soon over the issue. The VC could not be reached for his view on the matter, but had earlier said that the university has enough classrooms to hold the offline examinations while observing the social distancing norms. Meanwhile, the city wing of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) also staged a demonstration at the Ursuline Intermediate College here, alleging that admission forms of the institute aim to divide the students in the name of religion. The organisation said asking the candidates to fill a religion category as Hindu, Sarna or Harijan in the form is objectionable as Harijan is not a religion while the Sarna code has not been implemented. ABVP leader Prem Pratik Kesri, who led the agitation, said, “It is a conspiracy to divide the Hindu community.” The college’s principal, Dr Mary Grace, said the form has been used for the past several years but no one objected. She said conspiring to divide any community was beyond her imagination and not the intention of the institute. She added, “The categorization was done as certain government departments seek such information from us. The admission is based purely on marks of the students. Once enrolled, all students are equal and the school aims to bring out the best in them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dspmu-students-protest-exams-during-pandemic-period/articleshow/77208519.cms||Sanjay Sahay
July 28, 2020||Ranchi||Barhait OC suspended after video clip of him thrashing girl goes viral||Dumka: The officer in-charge of Barhait police station was suspended on Monday after a video of him thrashing and abusing a 20-year-old girl in front of other cops on July 22 went viral in the morning, police said. In the video, more than half a dozen cops stood in silence as their boss Harish Pathak, in civil clothes, physically assaulted the girl ‘for having an affair with a boy from her locality’. A few weeks ago, the victim’s mother had lodged a complaint at the said police station against her daughter’s lover Ramu Mandal and his father, accusing them of kidnapping her, following which, Ramu’s father was detained for questioning, according to police sources. Later on July 22, the cops had summoned the girl for recording her statement. However, when the girl in her statement said she is in love with Ramu, Pathak became furious. He grabbed the girl by her hair and slapped her indiscriminately on the face. He was even heard using filthy language in the video while beating her. On July 25, the girl wrote to Sahibganj SP Anuranjan Kispotta, narrating her ordeal but no action concrete action was taken till the video went viral. The SP, however, said that he had ordered a probe soon after the girl approached him. He added, “I had already directed the Barhwarwa SDPO to look into the allegations.” Local sources in Barhait — which is chief minister Hemant Soren’s constituency — said that Pathak has been in several controversies in the past but remained untouched due to political patronage. Former chief minister and BJP functionary Babulal Marnadi dubbed the incident as a failure of law and order in the state. “It appears that the state has slipped into the hands of draconian policing system that a cop like Harish Pathak is blessed with the post of the officer in-charge in a police station within the chief minister’s own constituency,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/barhait-oc-suspended-after-video-clip-of-him-thrashing-girl-goes-viral/articleshow/77206639.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Ranchi||Minister gives compensation to UP road mishap victim's kin||Bokaro: State education minister Jagarnath Mahto on Monday paid Rs 4 lakh compensation each to the families of the13 migrant workers who were killed in a road accident at Auraiya in Uttar Pradesh on May 16. The deceased worked at marble mines in Rajasthan and were returning to their homes in Bokaro amid the lockdown when the truck they were travelling in met with an accident. Most of the deceased were below 30 years of age. Mahto, along district officials, handed the cheques to the deceased’s families in the presence of Bokaro MLA Biranchi Narayan, among others. Mahto said, “The promise made by chief minister Hemant Soren has been fulfilled today.” Chas SDO Sashi Prakash Singh said, “Besides the compensation given to the deceased’s kin, the four injured in the accident were paid Rs 50,000 each. The deceased were residents of Gopalpur and Kherabeda panchayats of Chas block.” 4 Apart from compensations other benefits under various schemes were also distributed among the dependents of the deceased workers and injured. The Uttar Pradesh government however had paid Rs 2 lakh compensation to its victim kin within a month of the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/minister-gives-compensation-to-up-road-mishap-victims-kin/articleshow/77208466.cms||---
July 28, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand: 48 Maoists relent in anti-Red ops in Kolhan division||JAMSHEDPUR: As many as 48 rebels have either surrendered or have been arrested in combing operations or killed in encounters across the three districts of Kolhan division in the last seven months, police said on Monday. Most of the aforementioned rebels belong to the banned outfit, CPI (Maoist). A major chunk of the 48 Maoists hail from West Singhbhum district, which recorded 32 arrests and six casualties between January and July 25. West Singhbhum SP Indrajeet Mahata said, “In the wake of the increased search and combing operations in the district, 32 extremists belonging to the CPI Maoist and its splinter group PLFI have been arrested.” He added, “This year, 12 encounters have taken place in the district so far, in which six — including three women activists of CPI (Maoist) — were found dead.” In the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district, the combing operation against the ultras has resulted in the arrest of four naxalites and surrender of two so far. All six are members of the dreaded fugitive zonal commander Maharaj Parmanik’s squad. In January, Soyana Singh Sardar alias Motu and Mangal Singh Topno alias Lalu were killed. Both were accused in the June 14, 2019 ambush of a patrolling party in Kukru under Tiruldih police station area in which five Special Auxiliary Police (SAP) jawans died. On June 4, two other accused in the case — area commander Rakesh Munda alias Sukhram Munda and his girlfriend Chandni alias Budhni Sardar — surrendered before the police. Soma Sardar and Umesh Munda — who are also accused in the case — were arrested from two different areas under Kharsawan police station limits on July 12. Seraikela Kharsawan SP Mohamed Arshi, who visited the Maoist den in Kukru a few days ago to oversee the operation against the left-wing extremists, made it a point to meet the local villagers and enquire about their well-being. The SP said that the welfare of the villagers and development of the hamlet are vital to curb extremism. The East Singhbhum district witnessed the arrest of two fugitive Maoists — Subhash Munda was nabbed from Galudih on July 7 and Penu Birhor alias Manik Birhor was picked up from Chotabanki under MGM police station area on July 9. Munda was active in Ghatshila sub-division and carried a reward of Rs 1 lakh on his head while Birhor was an active member of the Akash Mandal squad. The district also saw the surrender of a rebel couple. Soban Mardi and his wife Urmila Malgandi surrendered at the Jamshedpur court on July 13. They had been absconding for the past 13 years. Several wanted Naxalites namely, Maharaj Parmanik, Akash Mandal, Bela Sarkar, Biren Singh, Ram Prasad Mardi, Misir Besra and Ajay Mahato, among 20 others, are yet to be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/48-maoists-relent-in-anti-red-ops-in-kolhan-div/articleshow/77208506.cms||---
