July 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Poetry festivals go online, with better reach, more artistes||As events continue to take the online route in the midst of the pandemic, literary events like poetry festivals too are joining the bandwagon. In fact, poetry festivals are making the most of the online medium and in the process, reaching out to a wider audience and participants. Case in point, is the annual Bengaluru Poetry Festival (BPF) that’s going online this year. The festival sees several literary names, celebs and performers in attendance and will be held in August. “Initially, even we thought that we wouldn’t organise the festival this year, because the charm of BPF lies in the intimate gatherings, where discussions, debates and performances are held with poets and poetry lovers from across the world. However, Shinie Anthony, who is the festival director, said that we had to do this and keep the spirit alive,” explains Subodh Shankar, a member of the organising team. Similarly, the Glasshouse Festival – Poetry from Around the World, which was held online recently, was also a first for the organising team. “Though we have conducted several virtual events earlier, this was the first time we organised the festival online. It was a mix of poetry and music performances,” says Raji Narayan, president of Art Mantaram Trust, a non-profit organisation that was behind the festival. Reaching a largeru audienceOrganisers also point out that online festivals are allowing them to reach out to more artistes and a larger audience. “This year, we have poets such as Gregory Kan, Avner Pariat, Roland Jurczok, Venus Jones, among others from India as well. If we had to reach out to the same names for a physical event, that wouldn’t be possible due to logistical issues. Also, people from around the world can watch them perform now,” says Subodh, adding, “Unlike most events, which are live streamed these days, we will have recorded events, readings and performances, that will be up on the festival’s website. People will be able to watch the videos anytime they want.” Online events are here to stayRaji adds that in addition to reaching out to a bigger audience, virtual festivals also fire the creativity of the organisers. “It pushes us to do our best and ensure that the audiences have a seamless experience. We had poets like Sonia Sanchez, Satchidanandan K, Jennifer Foerster and Norduran Duman, to name a few. As organisers we are on our toes and prepared for any situation, even while working from home,” she shares, adding that audiences have gotten comfortable with the idea of ‘entertainment from home’. “We have become so comfortable with entertainment from home, that for the next few months, this is how things will be even if venues were to open for the public,” she feels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/poetry-festivals-go-online-with-better-reach-more-artistes/articleshow/77224823.cms||Sandra Marina Fernandes
July 29, 2020||India||Uttarakhand’s Van Gujjars now back to milking their fortune||They dumped 5,000 litres of milk down the drain every day after lockdown began. Then, fought Covid fear and travel curbs to get back to businessEvery day in April, the 800-odd Van Gujjar families in Haridwar’s Gaindikhata area would dump 5,000 litres of milk down the drain. The lockdown had been hard on most, harder still on the forest-dwelling community with no other means of livelihood. In April, one member of the Van Gujjar community tested positive for Covid-19. The entire settlement was sealed as a containment zone for about a month. They could not step out and sell milk, which goes bad quickly. While they waited it out, 98 people from Gaindikhata who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi and elsewhere, were identified. The Covid stigma got worse. And while the containment zone was unsealed, customers shut their doors on the Van Gujjars. Read more from this series“They said the milk may be infected. People took advantage of us. We even sold milk at Rs 15 a litre. In all this, some started asking if we are members of Tablighi Jamaat. We follow Sufi Islam. But it didn’t seem to matter,” said Muhammad Alam, a member of the community. The pastoralist tribe, which lives near the Rajaji Tiger Reserve, is entirely dependent on its buffalo herds for survival. So while they couldn’t change what they did to make a living, they could change where they did it. So in June, some of the younger people decided to start exploring markets further away. “Travelling was restricted — sometimes we’d face lathicharge when anyone heard we were from Gaindikhata. So we tried to let others know by word of mouth,” said Muhammad Gulam, who runs a wholesale milk business at Gaindikhata. “It took some effort and a lot of time, but we slowly started getting customers in places much further away — Rishikesh (about 40 km) and Roorkee (about 50 km).” “We are selling milk at the correct prices of Rs 50-60 a litre again. We have new customers, business is brisk. And this seems to have encouraged our earlier customers too, who are all getting around to buying milk from us again,” said Alam. The owner of one of the largest dairies in Rishikesh, Sardar Puran Kainth, said even he harboured some apprehensions initially. “Since the lockdown began, we had not been sure about where to procure our milk from. But things are back to normal now. We will keep up our business with the Van Gujjars,” he said. (This story is part of a series in association with Facebook. Facebook has no editorial role in this story.)Watch Covid-19: How Uttarakhand’s Van Gujjars back to milking their fortune||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/uttarakhands-van-gujjars-now-back-to-milking-their-fortune/articleshow/77223127.cms||Shivani Azad
July 29, 2020||Lucknow||From monotone to designer, Lucknowites now want fancy masks||With major fashion trends taking a back seat ever since the Coronavirus outbreak happened in the country, a very prominent emerging fashion trend is that of designer masks. City designers are now going all out to woo Lucknowites with some funky customised masks. Read on... SURVIVAL OF THE MOST CREATIVE For designer Prakhar Tandon, owner of a chikan shops in Bhoothnath, designing masks is all about survival now. “See, people are not going out anywhere, so we hardly have sales of clothes. Since we deal mostly in chikan work, we sat with our workers and looked for innovation in the field. We have designed exclusive different layered chikan masks on different fabrics which are selling like hotcakes not only in the city but also online. The trend is here to stay for very long, as I predict.” (BCCL)(BCCL) JUST KIDDING WITH MASKSMadhu Bhatia, a retired teacher, started making masks to distribute to the Covid frontline warriors working nearing her house. But seeing how beautiful they were, her neighbours asked her to make some for them too. “Seeing how necessary a mask is these days. I thought of giving them a better look. I had cloth pieces lying at home and I started making embroidered ones, ones with tissue, Banarasi zari fabric, which people loved. And now I have so many orders, it sometimes becomes difficult to fulfil all of them,” says Bhatia. “Then the kids started complaining that I’ve given their mother such beautiful masks and why not them? So that prompted me to design masks for kids," says Madhu. FASHIONISTAS’ THUMBS UP TO THE TRENDLalita Pandey, a bureaucrat, gets hundreds of likes on social media when she posts pictures of matching masks that she wears with her outfits. “Masks are now mandatory, so why not wear beautiful ones which you can show off apart from keeping yourself safe,” she says. “Women want to be seen as fashionable, they would obviously want to wear fashionable masks than wear something which is dull and suufocating,” adds Lalita. Eesha Punjabi has been designing customised masks (BCCL)Eesha Punjabi has been designing customised masks (BCCL) MASK: THE NEW FASHION ACCESSORYPoonam Mehrotra, a designer in Indira Nagar, happened to make hand painted masks which proved to be a big hit with her customers. “It began with my experimenting with masks that I had stitched and painting Madhubani motifs on them. When my friends saw them they loved them and I was literally flooded with orders. So much so that I am now sending masks to people in the US and also all over India.” Poonam goes on to add, “Masks are now a necessity, and have become a fashion accessory. We designers now have to be innovative in designing this new fashion accessory.” COUPLED WITH A MASK!With weddings taking place now, Eesha Punjabi, a designer and owner of a fashion studio in the city, has begun designing customised masks for the bride and the groom. “The demand for designer masks is really high. While earlier the baraatis used to be gifted stoles, now they are getting designer masks. Plus, the bride and groom too are getting customised masks made for themselves. Even youngsters now want masks with either their initials or their partner’s initials.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/from-monotone-to-designer-lucknowites-now-want-fancy-masks/articleshow/77225261.cms||Iti Shree Misra
July 29, 2020||India||Rajasthan government firm on July 31 session, says governor's advice ‘not binding’||JAIPUR: Adamant about its stand on convening the Rajasthan assembly session from July 31, the Ashok Gehlot government on Tuesday sent yet another proposal — its third since July 23 — to governor Kalraj Mishra, who a day earlier had advised the government to follow three points, including serving a 21-day notice to legislators before calling the session. Parliamentary affairs minister Shanti Dhariwal told TOI, “There is no rule binding on us to serve a 21-day notice for calling sessions, which have been convened on much shorter notices on several occasions in the past.” The embattled Congress government’s fresh proposal does not talk about a trust vote — TOI reported on Tuesday that the cabinet wouldn’t commit itself to one — saying that setting an agenda for the House is the right of the assembly’s business advisory committee (BAC). On Monday, Mishra mentioned that seeking a trust vote could justify convening the assembly at a short notice. Asked about trust vote, Congress leader says BAC sets agendaOn the governor’s third advice — making safety arrangements to counter the Covid-19 risk in the House — the government responded that managing the affairs of the Vidhan Sabha was the prerogative of the speaker. Asked if the cabinet has mentioned the trust vote in the revised proposal, Dhariwal said: “The House agenda is decided by the BAC. We want to discuss the state’s Covid-19 and financial conditions. Other issues could be taken up if the BAC approves.” After a nearly two-hour long cabinet meeting, revenue minister Harish Chaudhary said: “The governor should let the cabinet’s rights remain with the cabinet, the speaker’s right to remain with the speaker and perform his own duty.” Transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said, “We have sought the assembly session from July 31 as recommended by the cabinet earlier also.” On the governor returning the cabinet recommendations twice between July 24 and 27, transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said: “If the President denies PM Modi’s call for convening a Lok Sabha session, can the nation function? We do not want a confrontation with the governor, who is the head of our family. But, Article 163 clearly states that a governor cannot reject the cabinet proposal.” “Entire BJP is functioning like slaves of the Congress rebels (Pilot camp). The assembly session will not be convened if these rebels tell the BJP not to do so. Politics is being done ignoring the constitution,” said Kachariyawas, accusing the BJP of trying to topple the Congress government. Watch Rajasthan govt sends proposal to governor Kalraj Mishra seeking assembly session from July 31||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajasthan-government-firm-on-july-31-session-says-governors-advice-not-binding/articleshow/77230202.cms||Bhanu Pratap Singh
July 29, 2020||India||Covid tally crosses 15 lakh; record 781 fatalities on Tuesday||NEW DELHI: India’s Covid-19 caseload went past the 15-lakh mark on Tuesday, with the last 5 lakh cases having come in just 12 days, even as the country reported its second-biggest jump in infections and the highest death toll of 781 in a single day. After showing a dip on Monday, fresh cases again rose to 49,292 on Tuesday, the second-highest daily count after Sunday’s record of over 50,000, as per data collated from state governments. Deaths recorded during the day went past the previous single-day high of 757 on July 24. India’s coronavirus caseload is the third highest in the world after the US (44.3 lakh) and Brazil (24.4 lakh). Russia has the fourth largest count of cases at 8.2 lakh, as per the Worldometers.info website. For the first time in weeks, Maharashtra did not register the highest daily cases. It was dislodged by Andhra, which recorded 7,948 fresh cases. For 2nd day, recoveries trump cases in MaharashtraAt 7,717, Maharashtra reported the second-highest count of daily cases. Fresh infections surged in the country although just three states — Karnataka (5,536 new cases), Kerala (1,167) and Punjab (612) — recorded their highest single-day jump in cases. Fresh cases in Maharashtra, which had dropped by nearly 1,500 to 7,924 on Monday, dipped further. However, several other big states reported fresh cases close to their highest yet, with Tamil Nadu detecting 6,972 infections, Uttar Pradesh recording 3,490, Bihar 2,480, Bengal 2,134, and Assam 1,348. With the highest jump in cases in the country, Andhra Pradesh’s cumulative caseload rose to 1,10,297. It now has the fifth largest caseload of cases, behind Maharashtra, TN, Delhi and Karnataka. For the second day in a row, daily discharges in Maharashtra were higher than daily additions, and discharges in Mumbai were nearly four times the daily addition. Even as the state and city registered a dip in cases, Covid fatalities reported on Tuesday went up to 282. Watch Covid-19: Over 15 lakh cases; record 781 fatalities on July 28||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-tally-crosses-15-lakh-record-781-fatalities-on-tuesday/articleshow/77230438.cms||---
July 29, 2020||India||Troops have disengaged in most ‘localities’, claims China||NEW DELHI: Even as doubts remain about Chinese withdrawal along the LAC in Ladakh, with the process stuck in the Pangong Tso area, Beijing claimed on Tuesday that troops had disengaged in “most localities” and that the situation on the ground was easing. India had in the last round of diplomatic talks on stressed the need for early and complete disengagement along the LAC and de-escalation in border areas. China had claimed “positive progress” in the talks. There has been vacation of friction zones and thinning in Galwan Valley. The spurs along Pangong lake and Depsang area remain contested. ‘Fifth round of Commander-level talks planned’As border troops have disengaged in most localities, the situation on the ground is de-escalating and the temperature is coming down,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said in Beijing. There was no immediate reaction from MEA to the Chinese claim. An agency report from Beijing quoted government sources to say India had denied it. The Chinese assertion came in response to a query from Global Times based on media reports and information received from “sources”, as the journalist claimed. The journalist asked the spokesperson to confirm if it was true that disengagement had been completed in Galwan Valley, Hot Springs and Kongka Pass and that the only area left still was Pangong. The spokesperson said the two sides were currently preparing for the fifth round of commander-level talks to resolve outstanding issues on the ground. Watch China claims troops 'disengaged on most locations along LAC'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/troops-have-disengaged-in-most-localities-claims-china/articleshow/77230642.cms||---
July 29, 2020||India||Corbett tops in tiger count, Madhya Pradesh pips Karnataka||Jim Corbett national park in Uttarakhand has the most number of tigers in the country, with 231 of the 2,967 big cats counted for the ‘Status of Tigers, Copredators & Prey in India’ report released by Union forest and environment minister Prakash Javadekar on Tuesday. Corbett’s tiger count has been rising — from 137 in 2006 to 174 in 2010 and 215 in 2014. “We had expected the numbers to be over 250,” said director of the reserve, Rahul. It is followed by Nagarhole (127) and Bandipur (126), both in Karnataka, Bandhavgarh in MP (MP) and Kaziranga in Assam (104 each). Among states, MP topped the tiger estimation, with 526 (it had 308 last time), going past Karnataka (524 this time, 406 earlier). UP’s Sohagi Barwa gets a lone tigerUttarakhand remained on the third spot, with 442 tigers, up from 340 previously. The All India Tiger Estimation is undertaken every four years, the latest in 2018. This time, Corbett is the only reserve with more than 200 tigers and has the highest tiger density in India, 14. The count in Dudhwa Tiger Reserve has also gone up. “It is a an increase from 58 to 82,” said Sanjay Kumar Pathak, field director of the reserve. Pilibhit reserve’s population is also up by two to 57. And what used to be a non-tiger zone in UP, Sohagi Barwa Wildlife Sanctuary, now has one tiger. But Mizoram’s Dampa reserve and Bengal’s Buxa lost the 6 tigers they had between them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/corbett-tops-in-tiger-count-madhya-pradesh-pips-karnataka/articleshow/77230789.cms||Shivani Azad
July 29, 2020||India||Railways freight loading back at year-ago level||NEW DELHI: In a positive sign for the economy shrugging off a long period of lockdown and depressed growth due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the total freight loading on Monday was a little higher than the freight loaded a year ago. The figures are good news for the national transporter, as passenger traffic remains low with people avoiding anything apart from essential travel and the need for business-related commuting also down. Railway board chairman V K Yadav told reporters that the total freight loading was 3.13 million tonnes (MT) on Monday as compared to 3.12 MTs on July 27, 2019. Railways stare at 35k crore revenue loss from fares Details available on Raildrishti, railway ministry portal on live data, show there was only 6.6% less loading of freight during this month as compared to July 2019. The improved freight movement indicates that supply chains are moving even though movement of foodgrains under the Centre’s welfare schemes may account for part of the traffic. The impact of the pandemic will continue to be felt in terms of the railway’s revenues. The earning reported in the portal till Monday was Rs 7,668 crore, 12.2% less from freight earning in July 2019. The railways could be looking at a revenue loss of Rs 30,000 crore to Rs 35,000 crore from passenger segment against the projected earning of Rs 50,000 crore. The losses are expected given the impact due to Covid-19 but the renewed movement of freight holds out hope that the wheels of the economy are beginning to move again. Railway board chairman V K Yadav said the fact that freight loading has rebounded despite Covid is a good sign and railways is confident of increasing it by 50% during the current fiscal. “This year we are looking at just 10-15% revenue from the passenger segment. Whatever revenue we lose from the passenger segment we will have to make it up by freight loading,” he added. Watch Indian Railways freight loading back at year-ago level||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/railways-freight-loading-back-at-year-ago-level/articleshow/77230859.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 29, 2020||India||Parliament building faces safety and space issues: Centre||NEW DELHI: The Union government filed an affidavit before the Supreme Court on Tuesday saying the nearly 100-year-old Parliament building was showing signs of distress and faced many safety issues, including serious fire hazard, which necessitated construction of a modern building for the bicameral House under the Central Vista project, reports Dhananjay Mahapatra. The Centre said construction of Parliament House was started in 1921 and completed in 1937. It is almost 100 years old. “Over the years, parliamentary activities have increased manifold. Therefore, it... is not able to meet the current requirements in terms of space, amenities and technology,” it said. It said the Parliament building was designed to house the Imperial Legislative Council and not as a bicameral legislature — Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. “Two floors were added in 1956. Fire safety is a major concern as the building is not designed according to present fire norms,” the government said in response to petitions challenging the Central Vista project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/parliament-building-faces-safety-and-space-issues-centre/articleshow/77231163.cms||---
July 29, 2020||India||Government panel opposes Kashmir 4G but LG ‘says he’s OK with it’||NEW DELHI: The Centre faced an awkward situation in the Supreme Court on Tuesday as the high-powered committee (HPC) headed by the home secretary has rejected providing 4G internet services in Kashmir for the time being but media reports suggested that lieutenant governor G C Murmu favoured resumption of high-speed internet services. With Jammu & Kashmir going to observe its first anniversary as a Union Territory on August 5, attorney general K K Venugopal and solicitor general Tushar Mehta wriggled out of the discomfiting situation by seeking a week’s time to present the correct picture before the SC. A bench of Justices N V Ramana, R S Reddy and B R Gavai posted the matter for further hearing on August 5. The AG and the SG said the date (August 5) had some significance and requested that the hearing be held on some other day. The bench posted the matter for hearing on August 7. Petitioner NGO ‘Foundation for Media Professionals’, through advocate Huzefa Ahmadi said though the HPC headed by the home secretary had declined making 4G internet services available in Kashmir for the time being, Murmu had told media organisations that the administration had no reservation if 4G services were provided in the UT. “Our only request is that the authorities should consider the issue magnanimously rather than on other considerations,” Ahmadi said. The SC had ordered setting up of a HPC headed by the home secretary to periodically review the situation in the UT and determine whether high-speed internet services could be provided to people. The NGO had said that in the absence of internet services, students could not attend virtual classes during the pandemic when schools are closed and were lagging behind their peers in other states. It also said businessmen could not transact, doctors could not give online consultation to patients and people’s free speech was impeded because of lack of 4G services. However, the Centre had said that faster internet services were being misused by elements inimical to peace who acted at the behest of a hostile neighbour to spread rumours and arouse passions of the public and disturb the atmosphere in the UT. Watch 4G internet in Kashmir: Government panel opposes, LG ‘says he’s OK with it’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/government-panel-opposes-kashmir-4g-but-lg-says-hes-ok-with-it/articleshow/77231210.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
July 29, 2020||Business||NSE platform to allow T-bill, state bond trade||Partha.Sinha@timesgroup.com Mumbai: The NSE on Tuesday said investors can now purchase treasury bills (T-bills) and state government bonds through its platform. It already offers the option to invest in Gilts through its platform. The move comes within a week of Sebi chairman Ajay Tyagi urging financial market participants to handhold those who have recently opened demat accounts to begin with investing in less-risky government securities before moving on to stocks. “In line with equity trading, investors can now buy and sell T-bills and SDLs (state development loans, or state government bonds) through NSE trading members. The dated government securities (G-secs, also Gilts) are already offered in the capital market segment,” a release from the exchange said. “T-bills and SDLs are both part of the government securities group and have been widely accepted as a safer investment choice.” Earlier in 2018, NSE had launched a platform for retail investors to bid in the government’s bond auctions through RBI’s ‘non-competitive bidding’ segment. NSE has now launched trading in G-secs, T-bills and state bonds to provide an alternate exit route to these investors who have subscribed through the primary market, the release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nse-platform-to-allow-t-bill-state-bond-trade/articleshow/77228410.cms||Partha Sinha
July 29, 2020||Business||Cos can’t fight new age war with culture fit for museum||By Prabir JhaAs organisations resort to digital quick fixes to keep their wheels churning, they must not declare success too early. While there surely will be a shift towards newer forms of working, we should be careful, or we will not see the wood for the trees. Doing cosmetic changes will recarpet the old ways but will not help you truly move to a new world. As I keep reminding clients, don’t try and solve paediatric problems with geriatric solutions, even if they look youthful in their packaging. Here are some fundamental reviews and changes if we want to enable our organisations to truly move towards being future ready: * Composition of boards & CXO suites: In many cases, companies are stuck with leaders who were good and relevant in the years gone past. That, by default, is not good enough for the new times. There must be greater plurality in perspectives, functional and generational. Most boards still stay a preserve of convenience and years of relationship. The effectiveness of the boards to guide with more contemporary issues cannot be left out for politeness. Likewise, companies would do well to critique the quality of their leadership teams. Is there enough power to push forward? Is too much of past loyalty risking the future? Are there blockers or uninspiring leaders? * Review your organisation’s architecture: As I listen to clients these days, I realise that many are slow to acknowledge that their structures are not quite aligned to their problems of today. And if they do, they struggle with changing it because of personalities that sit in boxes of such a structure. The world is amoebic today. How fluid is your organisation’s design? How do formal structures reshape to fight new wars, very much as militaries mobilise? What key gaps need new structures? What structures of the past now stand dilapidated or irrelevant and only harm cost and agility? * Review your talent equation: Many companies will need to tweak, and possibly redefine, the way they serve their clients. While structures may need an obvious refresh, the talent staffing could have a new demand. Would it be possible to up-skill talent in the system? Or hire? Would we look at disruptive talent catchments? Would we take sharper risks and bets than in the past? What attributes beyond skills would we need more of, such that our talent is better attuned to win? These are all strategic calls and it may lead to be a big talent shake-up in companies, if they are serious about their future. * Re-assess your organisational culture: It is good to be proud of one’s past, but dangerous to be blind to the limits of one’s legacy. As business models and customer-servicing shift, what is the strategic choice of culture for you? What will a ‘digital’ culture really mean? I hear many companies struggle with a clear repudiation of aspects they were proud of thus far. They need help to know it is alright to get rid of a culture that has outlived its times. It never is easy to rewire a culture, but it is surely not prudent to fight a new-age war with a museum-worthy culture. * Reinforce all your people systems afresh: A new world emerging from this huge crisis is a world of opportunity, if we dare to think afresh. It will in turn call for courage and reimagination of all HR systems and sub-systems, both to drive the change and then to reinforce them. Leadership essentials, talent definitions, structures & processes, rewards and recognition to sustain the culture shift — all need a re-look. It is not a cost but an investment. At least an insurance premium. Bold HR thinking will need to lead and sustain all these strategic shifts. A huge shift must be from thinking HR the function to HR the agenda.  We are at a huge turning point. The way we turn will be how history judges us. The question though remains if we shall continue with an incremental and symbolic change, or truly have the courage to bite the tougher bullet? Hopefully, we will have more celebratory stories than obituaries to remember.  (The writer is the founder & CEO of Prabir Jha People Advisory)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cos-cant-fight-new-age-war-with-culture-fit-for-museum/articleshow/77228299.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Vadodara||91 new Covid-19 cases surface in Vadodara||Vadodara: With 91 new cases of Covid-19 being reported in the city and district since Monday evening, the total number of cases reported in the city since the beginning of the pandemic went up to 4,381. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) confirmed three more deaths taking the total number of victims to 82 excluding those who died due to other health complications, but were Covid-19 positive. The new cases were detected from 637 tests that were conducted in the city and district. In the city, the new cases were reported form Manjalpur, Vasna, Fatehpura, Fatehgunj, Chhani, Gorwa, Makarpura, Sangam, Tarsali, Waghodiya Road, Soma Talav, Harni Road, Akota, Ajwa Road, O P Road, Tandalja, Subhanpura, Gotri, Maneja and Karelibaug. The worst affected area of the city was the south zone where 25 new cases were reported followed by the north and west zones where 23 and 12 cases came to light. Only eight persons tested positive in the east zone of the city. In areas outside the VMC limits in Vadodara district, 23 new cases came to light. These were from the Padra, Karjan, Sokhda, Dashrath, Por, Itola and Koyali villages. With 51 more patients being discharged from hospitals or home isolation on Tuesday, 3,346 persons have been discharged so far. This leaves 953 persons under hospitalization including 38 on ventilators or BiPAP machines and 143 on oxygen support. The condition of the remaining 953 persons is said to be stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/91-new-covid-19-cases-surface-in-vadodara/articleshow/77227203.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Nagpur||Vid nearing 13k, Covid peak @75k likely by mid-August||Nagpur: Even though Vidarbha has reported over 1,000 Covid cases, including 500 in the city alone, and increased number of casualties in the last two days in July, the region is nowhere near the peak of the outbreak. The reality is that we have only begun to see the surge, say experts.Vidarbha’s total Covid-19 tally is nearing 13,000-mark with 555 cases reported in a single day on Monday. In view of the projected peak at 75,801 cases in Vidarbha, extreme caution and self-discipline is required now, say experts.Based on the present situation, scientists have projected that Covid-19 outbreak would reach its peak by mid-August in many parts of the country. Data analysis of New Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Nashik and the recent one in Akola also shows that Covid spread comes under control only after a certain peak.The office of commissioner of health services, Mumbai, had in April projected the probable number of cases in a day and 10 days during peak of Covid-19. As per the projections, Vidarbha will have total 75,801 cases as the Covid-19 peak. (10 days preceding these numbers will be considered as the peak period). These include 18,902 cases from Nagpur district, of which 11,114 will be in city. At present, Nagpur district has less than 5,000 cases and Vidarbha is near 13,000, which suggests that the anticipated peak is still far away.Interestingly, the same projection had stated that Akola Municipal Corporation will reach Covid-19 peak at 1,475 cases. Akola reached this number on July 20. Since then, the cases there are declining. On July 28, Akola Municipal Corporation area reported just three new cases and seven from the district.A divisional health department senior official, who is member of National Task Force on Covid-19, said different areas in the country will reach peak at different times. After Delhi and Mumbai, now peak is being seen in Thane, Pune and Nashik. Vidarbha will witness the peak in mid-August, he added.“It’s a crucial phase for Maharashtra, because after Mumbai, Covid-19 is shifting its epicentre to other parts of the state,” he said adding that lockdowns were used to build-up health care facilities. “Now, most tehsil headquarters have Covid Care Centres where asymptomatic patients can be treated. People are more aware about facts, and symptoms. With this, we can avoid deaths,” he added.“More lockdown means more delay,” said veteran pulmonologist Dr Ashok Arbat, who has been studying international data of Covid-19 since the beginning of the outbreak.“Government is well aware of this peak as it had projected the same in April itself. Due to lockdowns in April, May and June, this peak got delayed. With easing of the lockdown in July, we are moving towards the projected peak. Now we should move ahead with caution, but without fear,” he said.Following hand hygiene, Covid distancing, wearing mask and avoiding unnecessary gatherings must be our mantra during this period, said Dr Arbat.What National Task Force on Covid-19 saysDifferent parts of country will peak at different timesDelhi is one such state where flattening of the curve is happeningMumbai, Ahmedabad and certain parts in the South are showing a declineThey seem to have reached a plateau and are showing a downward trendHowever, there are other areas where cases are increasingHow local experience goesEpidemiologically, reaching a peak means we begin to see a decline in casesMumbai recorded lowest cases in 100 days on July 28Akola district’s recovery rate is 81%, only 10 cases on July 28Malegaon’s recovery rate 87%, only one case on July 28Pune is now witnessing biggest rise in cases followed by ThaneTakeaway message for Vidarbha Health department has projected 75,801 cases in Vidarbha during peakPresently, we have less than 13k cases, so our march toward Covid-19 peak has just startedLockdowns may reduce this pace, but curve will flatten only post-peakLocalized Covid-19 facilities, responsible behaviour, lifestyle changes mustManaging asymptomatic patients at home will make sure beds are available for serious patients||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vid-nearing-13k-covid-peak-75k-likely-by-mid-august/articleshow/77229574.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 29, 2020||Patna||Antigen tests start at all PHCs in Patna division||PATNA: With Covid-19 cases skyrocketing, rapid antigen tests have started at all the primary health centres (PHCs) in six districts of Patna division – Patna, Nalanda, Buxar, Bhojpur, Rohtas and Kaimur – from Monday. An instruction in this regard was earlier issued by Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal. Of the 5,970 people whose samples were collected on Monday in Patna division, 803 have tested positive for coronavirus. Agarwal said each of the 130 urban and rural PHCs, including 52 in Patna, will conduct 25-50 tests per day on an average. “The number of tests will be increased as per requirement,” he said. There are altogether 20 PHCs in Nalanda, 19 in Rohtas, 16 in Bhojpur, 12 in Buxar and 11 in Kaimur. In Patna, there are 25 urban and 27 rural PHCs. The divisional commissioner said symptomatic as well as asymptomatic people can get their samples tested at PHCs. “The test result will be sent to the people through SMS on their cellphones. Those tested positive for the virus can opt for either home quarantine or institutional quarantine,”Agarwal said. State health minister Mangal Pandey had tweeted on July 25 that around 1.8 lakh rapid antigen test kits will be procured by the state government and sent to the PHCs in all districts to ramp up Covid tests. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said 2,263 samples were collected in the district in the last 24 hours, including 1,022 at PHCs. “Rapid antigen tests were also done at three government and a private hospitals. We are planning to start antigen tests in 11 more private hospitals where Covid treatment has started,” he said. Hotel converted into Covid hospital: Hotel Patliputra Ashok, a three-star hotel in the city, was on Tuesday converted into ‘district Covid hospital’ to treat people with mild symptoms. The 150-bed facility on Beerchand Patel Marg has 25 oxygen beds, 40 general beds and 85 beds in isolation hall. A team of medical staff will work at the facility in three shifts under the supervision of Patna civil surgeon Dr Raj Kishore Choudhary. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said admission of patients at the new facility would start either from Wednesday or Thursday. “Six doctors and 18 auxiliary nurse midwives will work round-the-clock at the hotel,” he said. The district administration has also asked the Patna civil surgeon to arrange five ventilators for the new facility to treat critically ill patients. The housekeeping team will be outsourced for biomedical waste management. A 180-bed Covid hospital was also made functional at Tourism Information Centre in Patna City three days ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/antigen-tests-start-at-all-phcs-in-patna-division/articleshow/77226215.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 29, 2020||Patna||10 trained technicians to be recruited in Gaya||GAYA: With a view to increasing Covid-19 testing capacity in Gaya, 10 more trained technicians would soon be recruited, said district magistrate (DM) Abhishek Singh on Tuesday. Several frontline health workers, including lab technicians, have tested positive for coronavirus in the district and opted for home quarantine. Of these, the doctors and paramedical staff of the Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College and Hospital (ANMMCH) are the worst hit. This has led to an acute shortage of trained staff for conducting Covid tests. “Today is the last day for submission of applications for the job. The process of recruiting 10 more trained technicians will be completed soon,” the DM told this newspaper. He also pointed out that there was a lack of hospital management specialists. Asked about the precautionary measures being taken at the Covid care centres in Gaya’s Gandhi Maidan, Sherghati, Tekari and Belaganj, the DM replied, “All the protocols are being followed. Although preference is being given to the installation of oxygen pipelines, cylinders will be used as a backup.” He added that tests would also be conducted at the primary health centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/10-trained-technicians-to-be-recruited-in-gaya/articleshow/77226310.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Business||TaMo appoints former Renault chief JLR CEO||MUMBAI: Tata Motors has named former Renault chief Thierry Bollore as the new CEO of its UK auto arm Jaguar Land Rover (JLR). The move indicates chairman N Chandrasekaran’s preference for an external candidate to steer the unit, which is an important flagship within the Tata Group. Chandrasekaran selected Bollore after almost a six-month search through recruitment firm Egon Zehnder. A French national, Bollore, 57, will succeed Ralf Speth, who has been JLR’s CEO for a decade. Tata Motors had earlier planned to extend Speth’s term by a year, but the idea was dropped. Speth will move on to the role of non-executive vice-chairman of JLR from September 10. The Tata Group has occasionally created the non-executive vice-chairman’s position in operating companies to acknowledge an executive’s contribution to the business and to seek his expertise guidance, while continuing to remain on the board till the retirement age of 70 years. In the past, the group had made R K Krishnakumar, S Ramadorai and B Muthuraman the vice-chairman of Indian Hotels, TCS and Tata Steel, after they served as the CEO of the respective units. Bollore has spent his entire career at French companies, starting at tyre maker Michelin and then at automotive component supplier Faurecia and later at Renault. He joined Renault in 2012, where he rose to become its CEO in January 2019 after predecessor Carlos Ghosn was taken into custody over alleged financial wrongdoings. Nine months later, Bollore was dismissed in a boardroom coup as Renault wanted to save its relationship with Japanese partner Nissan. At JLR, Bollore will have to turn the English carmaker’s performance around. The company reported a pre-tax loss of 400 million pounds in fiscal 2020. Demand for new passenger vehicles remains under pressure as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. The success of JLR is key for the Tata Group, which had acquired the British unit in 2008 from Ford. Brokerage firm CLSA had said that Tata Motors is worth nothing without JLR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tamo-appoints-former-renault-chief-jlr-ceo/articleshow/77228541.cms||Reeba Zachariah
July 29, 2020||Jaipur||3 jawans, 3 labourers test Covid-19 positive in Pokhran area of Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: Corona positive cases have been reported yet again from Pokhran area of Jaisalmer. Three jawans from a battalion and three labourers working in a solar power project at Lavan have tested positive. The district administration sprung into action after the cases came to light. In the last five days, six army jawans have tested positive. The state government has ordered the installation of a RT-PCR machine for testing in Jaisalmer. On the other hand, to curb further spread of the virus in Jaisalmer, urban public representatives will dedicatedly participate in and will make people aware about the precautions to be taken to keep the virus away. This pledge was taken by the Jaisalmer municipal council councillors in an awareness seminar organised at DRDA hall. They said they will extend all possible help to the district administration at every level to make people aware about the virus and will make them take all possible precautions. Municipal council chairman Harivallabh Kala, district collector Ashish Modi, SP Dr Ajay Singh, UIT secretary Anurag Bhargava, municipal council commissioner Fateh Singh Meena, CMHO Dr BK Barupal asked everybody to follow all precautions and that Jaisalmer city requires wide and intensive efforts. The officials called upon all the councillors to abide by the advisory and make people aware. Modi underlined the important role of public representatives in the efforts to prevent Covid-19. Apart from supporting the administration, one should make people aware. He said councillors are directly in touch with the people due to which they are better equipped at making people follow the advisory. Meanwhile, looking at the increasing number of corona infections and increasing the number of samples, the state government has ordered to set up an RT-PCR machine, which is expected to be installed in next 15 to 20 days at Jawahar Hospital. Till now, samples were being sent to Barmer for testing and the reports came in 48 to 72 hours. It is to be mentioned that till now, there are 11 districts in the state where corona testing facility is not available. State government has decided to set up a machine at the earliest in Jaisalmer. In this regard, PMO Dr VK Verma said that the place has been identified for setting up the RT-PCR machine. The machine is expected to be installed in next 20 to 25 days. This would provide a big relief to the people of Jaisalmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-jawans-3-labourers-test-ve-in-pokhran/articleshow/77229608.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Patna||Lockdown period sees 23,000 fresh Covid cases in Bihar||PATNA: The statewide lockdown imposed by the government from July 16 to 31 seems to have failed to curb the spread of Covid-19 in Bihar, experts said. On an average, more than 1,500 Covid positive cases are being recorded per day for the last 13 days in the state. Experts have also attributed the surge in Covid cases to gradual increase in testing. Though the statewide lockdown was imposed on July 16, several districts had gone for lockdown before that. Patna district, where lockdown was imposed on July 8, has also recorded a sharp rise in number of coronavirus cases, with over 5,000 people testing positive for the virus over the last 20 days. As per the data shared by the state health department, the state had 20,173 registered Covid cases on July 15, a day before the enforcement of lockdown. With an additional 23,418 Covid-19 cases during the lockdown period, the number has now jumped to 43,591. Altogether 100 people have died of Covid-19 during the lockdown period. On the other hand, 1,22,348 samples have been tested during this period. While average testing till July 15 was around 10,000 per day, nearly 4,000 additional tests per day are being conducted now. On Monday alone, 14,236 samples were tested across the state. As far as Patna is considered, it had 1,114 registered Covid-19 cases on July 7, a day before lockdown. On July 27, the number stood at 7,067. Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said Covid cases started rising in the district from the beginning of July. “Proper analysis of increasing trend and decision to impose lockdown on time has proved beneficial. Else, there would have been five-time increase in the number of Covid cases. The lockdown helped in identifying active cases. These people were earlier intermingling with others,” Agarwal said. He added, “We have also increased the number of Covid-19 tests. Around 5,000 samples are being tested per day in Patna alone. In fact, the percentage of increase in tests is higher than the percentage of surge in Covid cases. Since the last two-three days, the number of Covid cases in the district has gone down.” Secretary of Bihar chapter of Indian Medical Association Dr Sunil Kumar attributed “poor enforcement” of lockdown to rise in coronavirus cases. “Even now, many people can be spotted on roads without masks. They should realise that they are not daredevils. In vegetable markets, there is no social distancing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lockdown-period-sees-23000-fresh-covid-cases-in-bihar/articleshow/77226348.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh to raise Rs 800 crore from sale of holdings||SHIMLA: To carry out developmental work, the Himachal Pradesh government is going to raise money from financial markets. The state has notified the sale of government stock (securities) of eight-year tenure for an aggregate amount of Rs 500 crore and it will have the option to retain an additional amount of up to Rs 300 crore. The auction will be conducted by the Reserve Bank of India at its Mumbai office on Tuesday. Himachal Pradesh is already under debt of over Rs 50,000 crore but taking loan for developmental purposes has become a compulsion for the government due to its limited income resources. In the financial year 2020-21, the state government is taking the loan for the first time. According to notification, the proceeds of government securities will be utilised for the development programmes and consent of the Union government has been obtained as required by Article 293 (3) of the Constitution of India. Government stock will be sold by auction at a coupon rate to be determined by the RBI at the yield-based auction under multiple price formats. Government stock up to 10% of the notified amount of the sale will be allotted to eligible individuals and institutions subject to a maximum limit of 1% of the notified amount for a single bid as per the ‘revised scheme for non-competitive bidding facility’ in the auctions of state government securities of the general notification. The result of the auction shall be displayed by RBI on its website on the same day. Payment by successful bidders will be made on Wednesday. The tenure of the stock will commence on July 29 and loan will be repaid at par on July 29, 2028. Notification says that cut-off yield determined at the auction will be the coupon rate percent per annum on the stock sold at the auction. The interest will be paid on January 29 and July 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hp-to-raise-rs-800-crore-from-sale-of-holdings/articleshow/77229561.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Shimla||Train locals in guerrilla warfare: Himachal Pradesh governor||SHIMLA: Road as well as telecom networks in border areas of Himachal need to be strengthened, Himachal Pradesh governor Bandaru Dattatreya told defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday. Writing to Rajnath on various issues related to border areas of Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti districts, Dattatreya requested him to get dependable and robust telecommunication network installed and operationalised in border villages of the state and to make adequate arrangements to track movement of drones from the Chinese side. He said that air defence assets need to be positioned at appropriate locations to prevent violation of Indian air space. Dattatreya said there was an urgent need of an airstrip in Spiti to ensure prompt deployment of forces. The airstrip would act as advanced landing grounds, he said. Helipads in forward areas should also be developed, he added. The governor recommended presence of central intelligence agencies, Indian Army and increase in the strength of ITBP to bolster people’s morale and to tackle any unforeseen incident of intrusion by China. He also recommended basic Chinese and Tibetan language training for ITBP and state intelligence agencies. The governor went on to suggest guerrilla warfare and defence training for people by the paramilitary forces. It was done prior to 2001, and the local people, who possess high morale, were also demanding it, he added. Dattatreya requested Rajnath to look into the matter personally and issue necessary directions. He said that about 240 km of Indo-China border falls in two districts of Himachal Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/guv-train-locals-in-guerrilla-warfare/articleshow/77229607.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Pune||Pimpri Chinchwad's YCMH to get 30 more ICUs with staff in coming days||PUNE: Thirty ICU beds will be added at the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital in the coming days. At present, the Covid dedicated hospital has around 33 ICU (intensive care unit) beds, all of which are occupied. Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissiner Shravan Hardikar said he had issued directives to the health department to increase the hospital’s capacity. Additional commissioner of Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation Santosh Patil said the availability of trained staff, and not addition of beds, was the real issue. “Nursing staff is still an issue for us. Trained nurses from Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital (YCMH), who are working with other hospitals or Covid care centres, will be called back to work at the new ICU ward.” Patil said, “We have also spoken to the Keralite Nurses’ Union for our requirements. If the negotiations work, we shall soon have the required number of nursing staff. Since the upcoming Covid centres will be run by private firms, our manpower will be utilised properly.” The YCMH has been in the news this week for staffers’ protest against the alleged misbehaviour by a local corporator and relatives of a recently deceased patient. The members of the Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (Mard) and the nursing staff said they were now concerned about their safety. They demanded from the authorities better security at the hospital and a separate ward for doctors testing Covic-19 positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ycmh-to-get-30-more-icus-with-staff-in-coming-days/articleshow/77229579.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Business||PM Modi to meet top bankers, discuss credit flow||NEW DELHI/MUMBAI: Worried over the flow of credit to the corporate sector and small businesses, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will brainstorm with the country’s top bankers on Wednesday. “The topics on agenda include credit products and efficient models for delivery, financial empowerment through technology, prudential practices for stability and sustainability of the financial sector. Banking sector plays an important role in contributing to India’s economic growth through financing infrastructure, agriculture, local manufacturing, including MSMEs. Financial inclusion can play a big role in financial empowerment through technology,” the Prime Minister’s Office said in a statement. Those invited for the interaction include Rajnish Kumar, chairman, State Bank of India, Aditya Puri, MD, HDFC Bank, Sandeep Bakhshi, MD, ICICI Bank, S S Mallikarjuna Rao, MD and CEO of Punjab National Bank, and Renu Sud Karnad, MD of HDFC, sources said. According to economists, one of the key issues facing businesses is the absence of credit growth despite easing by the RBI. “Unlike most major economies, quantitative easing in India has not led to credit-growth acceleration. With bank credit growth already at a six-decade low and a likely contraction of nominal GDP in FY21, credit too may shrink, impacting banks’ net interest income,” said Sujan Hazra, chief economist at Anand Rathi securities. Unless the liquidity injected by the RBI and credit-enhancing measures (guarantees) extended by the government lead to the acceleration of credit growth, these steps would not aid revival of growth, said Hazra in a note on credit growth. Bankers made a presentation on their suggestions on what was needed in a meeting with secretary - department of financial services, which was a dry run for their meeting on Wednesday with the Prime Minister. Officials have pointed out that despite the massive amount of liquidity, banks are not lending and are instead parking funds with the RBI. On their part, public sector banks have blamed the government’s witch hunt against bankers and pointed to instances where cases have been lodged against the entire board by CBI, prompting them to play safe. The government’s move to repeatedly comfort bankers has had little impact in improving their risk appetite. Even now, they are preferring to be cautious instead of stepping up lending, amid fears of a sharp spike in bad debt in the coming months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pm-to-meet-top-bankers-today-discuss-credit-flow/articleshow/77229048.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Nashik||LCB arrests youth for killing friend over Rs 700||NASHIK: The Local Crime Branch (LCB) of the Nashik rural police arrested a 26-year-old man from Satpur in connection with a murder that took place in Sinnar on July 19. The suspect — Sandeep Manohar Sonawane, a resident of Ashok Nagar — has been handed over to Sinnar police for further investigation. According to police, an unidentified body was recovered from Mohadari Ghat in Sinnar. “Later, it was found that the body was of a 38-year-old Ashok Mahajan, a resident of ITI Colony in Shramik Nagar. Autopsy revealed that he was stoned to death,” a police officer said. A murder case was registered by Sinnar police and on the instructions of SP Arti Singh, the investigation was handed over to the LCB. Police inspector KK Patil, who led the investigation said, “During investigation we found out that the victim used to take up some specialised painting works in the industrial areas. On July 17, he had been to an industry in Sinnar. We also found that Sonawane had gone with Mahajan to collect some payment.” He added, “Mahajan and Sonawane were friends for the past one-and-a-half years and the former had borrowed Rs 700 from the latter. On July 17, Mahajan asked Sonawane to accompany him to Sinnar for getting his payment. After collecting the money, Sonawane asked Mahajan to pay back the money he had taken from him.” Sonawane was upset that Mahajan was not returning the money despite getting a payment of Rs 18,000. Hence, in a fit of rage, he picked up a stone and hit it on Mahajan’s head.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/lcb-arrests-youth-for-killing-friend-over-rs-700/articleshow/77226725.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 29, 2020||Business||India China spat dents South Indian tea exports||Chennai: Tea from southern India headed to China appears to have hit nadir as geopolitical tensions between the two bellicose neighbours threatens to derail the nearly 13 million kilograms (kgs) of tea exported annually, or roughly 13% of exports from the region. South India exports nearly 99 million kgs of tea of which 13.45 million were to China last year. Between January-March 2020, 1.9 million kgs of tea was exported to China, as against 2.6 million kgs in the year ago quarter. “We haven’t heard anything on this from Chinese buyers. It appears uncertain,” said C Shreedharan, chairman, Upasi Tea Committee, the apex body of planters of south India.“China wasn’t the biggest market, but an emerging one for the past three years,” he said. No tea planter from the Nilgiris exports directly to China, instead it is routed through a merchant exporter, who buys teas from various sources in auction and blends them for export.An exporter who exported nearly 7 million kgs of tea to China said, “Compared to last year, the tea export scenario, especially to China, looks marginally better and promising as of now. If issues like geopolitical and Covid-19 escalate then we cannot say anything”.He did not wish to be named. The biggest market for Indian tea is Iran.Overall exports from south India between January and May have dropped sharply by 40% YoY to 28.3 million kg or a loss of nearly Rs 211.6 crore worth exports. However, there is a small solace over the past couple of weeks as prices in south Indian tea auctions are rising. “Between June and July there is a 15% to 20% increase in prices. But that is hardly a relief as the production is also down,” he added. Though the prices were up, the weighted average prices of CTC at Rs 106.8 a kg now is down 8.8% (January-June YoY) while that of orthodox tea at Rs 122.4 a kg was down 10.9%. All tea average at Rs 99.5 a kg is down 9.4%A morbid combination of erratic weather and unremunerative prices has pushed the industry to its decadal lows. Simply put: tea industry in south India is tottering. For the current year, production is down 19% at 93.4 million kgs. “For the past 10 years there has been no production increase. Kerala which was a big producer is dropping 3% to 4% every year and now produces only 60 million kg or even less. In Tamil Nadu too, volumes are dwindling, either due to erratic weather or due to unremunerative prices,” said Shreedharan. Added to these list of factors is the Covid and ensuing lockdowns. “Big consumers including hotels and tea shops are shut,” he said, adding that the glut in consumption matches a production glut and hence there may not be a a run away increase in prices or a steep increase in imports.With inputs from Shantha Thiagarajan from the Nilgiris||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-china-spat-dents-south-indian-tea-exports/articleshow/77228110.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
July 29, 2020||Lucknow||Cong MLC to move court against UP Council’s decision||Lucknow: A day after the Vidhan Parishad chairperson rejected Congress’ plea to disqualify rebel MLC Dinesh Pratap Singh for having joined BJP, Congress MLC DeepakSingh, who had petitioned against Dinesh Singh, said that he would approach the court for relief. Vidhan Parishad chairperson Ramesh Yadav ruled in favour of Dinesh Singh on the grounds that the evidence submitted against him was not maintainable and that the person who filed the petition Deepak Singh was not an authorised member of the Congress and was not present when the incidents referred to in the petition took place. Dinesh Singh had won the MLC election on the Congress symbol in 2016, but in 2018 he rebelled against the party and joined BJP. He then contested the 2019 Lok Sabhaelections as a BJP candidate against Congress national president Sonia Gandhi from Rae Bareilly. In a letter to Yadav on Tuesday, Deepak Singh challenged Yadav’s decision to not recognise him as an authorised Congress member. “You made me take oath as a Congress MLC on July 23, 2016. On September 7, 2016, you recognised me as the party whip. On May 14, 2018, you recognised me as leader of the Congress legislative party. It is very unfortunate, however, that in your decision taken on Monday, you didn’t acknowledge me as an authorised person of the Congress,” Deepak Singh said. Among the evidence submitted against Dinesh Singh was a video of him joining BJP under Amit Shah, but that was rejected on the grounds that the video was not clear,Deepak Singh said. He added that a letter written by Dinesh Singh to the chairperson on April 23, 2018 to tell him that he had joined BJP along with proof that he contested the Lok Sabha elections on a BJP ticket were also submitted to Yadav. “All this evidence was submitted to you and even a person who has basic knowledge of the matter would not have given the decision that you gave on Monday,” Deepak Singh wrote in his letter to Yadav. He further said that the decision would not stand in the court as the Supreme Court order on defections is very clear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cong-mlc-to-move-court-against-up-councils-decision/articleshow/77230342.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Patna||Flood situation grim in north Bihar||BAGAHA/ SITAMARHI/ KHAGARIA: Lakhs of people across 12 districts in north Bihar continue to face flood-related hardships with most rivers in the region continuing to swell amid heavy rain in their catchment areas. In Sitamarhi, incessant rain in the catchment areas of rivers in the district and those flowing in from Nepal, led to a surge in the water level in Bagmati, Lalbakeya Jhim, Rato, Maraha, Marar, Manushamara, Lakhandei and Hardi. All rivers were flowing above the danger mark at several places in the district. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi issued a statement on Tuesday which stated that around 23 lakh people will get benefit of free ration for five months under the ‘Aatmnirbhar Bharat’ scheme despite the hassles due to floods. “We are ensuring that per person 25kg food grain and per family 5kg pulses are distributed despite the issues in distribution of ration food due to the floods,” he stated. In West Champaran, barring Gandak and Masan, smaller hilly rivers such as Haraha, Bhapsa, Jhikeri, Kosil, Kapon and Sonaha were in spate on Tuesday due to heavy rain in their catchment areas in the past 24 hours. Gandak and Masan eroded their banks in Jharmahuyee village under Bagaha -1 block, Kuari, Nagahi and Muzahi Gandak diara areas. “Flood water carrying silt has spread over fertile land, which has destroyed paddy and sugarcane cultivated area,” Tharu Welfare Federation West Champaran president Deepnarain Prasad said. The Sitamarhi district administration has organised vigils and patrolling of the embankments. Altogether 119 panchayats in 13 blocks are affected due to flood. Sursand, Parihar, Choraut, Bokhara, Bajpatti,Runnisaidpur, Belsand, Dumra, Riga, Suppi, Bairgania,Sonbarsa and Bathanaha blocks are experiencing flood. Shelter homes are functional in several blocks. A few community kitchens are serving food to the flood ravaged villagers in Parihar, Sonbarsa and Runnisaidpur blocks. Road communications have not been restored between Sitamarhi-Sursand, Sitamarhi-Parihar, Sitamarhi-Sheohar and Lagma-Bhasepur. In Khagaria, flood threat to fresh areas eases as major rivers Kosi and Bagmati showed receding trend on Tuesday. The situation, however, remained grim as the flood has been stagnant in the affected villages. Road communication in many parts of the district has been disrupted causing great hardships to the people of the region. The daily flood bulletin issued by the district administration on Tuesday stated that 92 villages spread over seven blocks have been affected by the flood waters. The flood-hit population in the district stands at 76,380, the bulletin stated, adding three community kitchens are being run feeding around 2,700 people while around 3,400 food packets apart from over 700 polyethylene sheets have been distributed so far. Khagaria DM Alok Ranjan Ghosh said the administration was geared up to tackle floods. All BDOs and COs have been asked to provide adequate boats and relief materials to the marooned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/flood-situation-grim-in-north-bihar/articleshow/77226639.cms||Tirthraj Kushwaha
July 29, 2020||Patna||Hear plea for regular bail if accused is arrested: HC||PATNA: The judicial officer in a subordinate court may be held responsible for contempt of court if the accused, after arrest, is asked to withdraw anticipatory bail petition pending before the high court before hearing his/her regular bail application. The bench of Justice Rajeev Ranjan Prasad of the Patna high court gave this observation while hearing the anticipatory bail petition of one Rahul Kumar on July 17. Rahul was arrested in an attempt to murder case while his anticipatory bail petition filed on June 8 was pending for hearing. The order has now come into the public domain. The HC also observed that if any person is in jail because of the pandemic, it is not only the violation of his constitutional and human rights, but also a matter of judicial indiscipline. Petitioner Rahul had moved for a regular bail before a Chhapra court, which asked him to produce an order showing withdrawal of his anticipatory bail petition first. He then urged the high court to allow him withdraw his petition. The high court observed that a coordinate bench on May 26, 2015 had ruled that upon arrest of an accused, all proceedings in relation to anticipatory bail becomes infructuous. That time, accused Mohammad Matin had prayed that the lower court was not ready to hear his regular bail petition on the ground that his anticipatory bail petition was pending before the high court. The HC had disposed Matin’s anticipatory bail application with observation that it had yet not seen such an absurd prayer and that no magistrate could ever make such an observation. When counsel Ansul, appearing for the petitioner, submitted that the earlier order was not being followed, Justice Prasad observed that if any of the judicial officers in a court below is not following the order and observation of the coordinate bench, he may be held responsible for committing contempt of court. While allowing the withdrawal of petition, the high court directed its registry to send the order to all district and sessions judges for bringing it to the notice of all judicial officers. The attempt to murder case was lodged with Chhapra Town police station in Saran district on October 3 last year by one Rampravesh Rai of Dahiyawan Dargah locality. He had accused several persons of injuring him for opposing tractor parking in front of his house entrance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hear-plea-for-regular-bail-if-accused-is-arrested-hc/articleshow/77226836.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 29, 2020||Business||Yes Bank Q1 net dips 60%, stock below FPO level||MUMBAI: Shares of Yes Bank fell below the follow-on public offer (FPO) price of Rs 12 on a day when the lender reported a 60% year-on-year drop in net profit to Rs 45 crore. On the positive side, the bank’s deposit rose 11.4% from the preceding quarter to Rs 1,17,360 crore after shrinking due to a spate of withdrawals after a moratorium. Announcing the results, MD & CEO Prashant Kumar said that, following the FPO, the bank was adequately capitalised. He said that the bank had appointed a consultant to advise it on carving out its bad loans into a separate entity and, based on the recommendations, the bank would seek permissions from the regulator. It set aside Rs 1,087 crore as provisions for possible defaults in the first quarter, of which Rs 642 crore is for Covid-19 related provisioning. Following the improvement in deposits, the bank has repaid Rs 25,000 crore (50%) of the special liquidity facility that it had availed from the Reserve Bank of India as part of its resolution package. According to Kumar, the bank has provided for all the bad loans and its provision coverage ratio at 75% was on a par with other banks. At the end of the recent quarter, the ratio of net non-performing assets (NPAs) improved to 4.9% from 5% in the March-ended quarter. The stock of gross NPAs also shrunk from Rs 32,878 crore to Rs 32,703 crore. However, the ratio of gross NPAs rose marginally due to net advances shrinking. On a year-on-year basis, deposits were sharply down 48% from Rs 2,25,902 crore. This was because of the run on deposits during the fourth quarter, which led to the crisis and takeover by new SBI-led investors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/yes-bank-q1-net-dips-60-stock-below-fpo-level/articleshow/77228836.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Patna||Bihar: He wanted to sell kidney to fight lockdown pangs||PATNA: The lockdown amid Covid-19 pandemic has brought immense misery to people and forced some to take extreme steps like committing suicide. Naresh Singh (55), who used to earn his livelihood by begging at Danapur railway station, became so desperate that he might have sold his kidney for survival had not a good Samaritan prevented him from doing so and helped him. Danapur railway station has been the shelter for Naresh for the past several years. He was pulling on somehow on the alms he got from passengers at the southern end of the station. However, his plight started when train movement stopped due to the lockdown. Naresh said he had been facing starvation-like situation for the past four months. “Selling kidney was the only option that came to my mind for survival in such a difficult time when the trains stopped coming to Danapur station amid lockdown. Who will give me two times food every day to keep my body and soul together?” he told this newspaper on Tuesday. But it was Adam Parwez of Neemtallah Road in Khagaul, who spotted Naresh and prevented him from taking the extreme step. His daughter-in-law Saulat Ameri has been feeding Naresh religiously every day since then. Despite much persuasion, Naresh did not reveal the identity of the person who had actually goaded him to sell his kidney to make money. Naresh, however, said he wanted to start his own tea shop by selling kidney. “My immediate need was to fight hunger. It was not a mater of concern how long I would have survived after selling my kidney,” he said. Bihar Daily Passengers’ Association general secretary Shoaib Quraishi has urged the railways and district administration to arrange meals at regular intervals for such hapless and destitute people struggling hard for their survival amid Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown. “The hands that serve are holier than the lips that pray,” a social activist of Khagaul, Sudhir Madhukar, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/he-wanted-to-sell-kidney-to-fight-lockdown-pangs/articleshow/77226439.cms||Kumod Verma
July 29, 2020||Business||IDBI Bank sees Rs 144 crore Q1 profit, posts Rs 144 crore net||MUMBAI: IDBI Bank reported a net profit of Rs 144 crore for the quarter ended June 2020 as against a loss of Rs 3,801 crore for the corresponding quarter last year. The bank managed to report a profit as provisions for bad loans tapered off. IDBI Bank has been under the prompt corrective action (PCA) framework of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) since March 2017, which bars the bank from taking on new large corporate loans. The lending restrictions were placed after the bank’s financials grew weak under the weight of bad loans. Since then, Life Insurance Corporation has acquired a majority stake in the bank and infused capital that enabled the bank to write off bad debts. Following the capital infusion, bad loan write-offs and profits, IDBI Bank qualifies to exit RBI’s PCA restriction on all parameters except the profitability track record. The bank reported its first quarterly profit of Rs 135 crore in March 2020 after 13 consecutive quarters of loss. Announcing the results, the bank’s MD & CEO Rakesh Sharma said that the lender would apply to the RBI, seeking to exit the PCA framework. Total provisions dropped to Rs 1,182 crore from Rs 4,752 crore in the year-ago period. Sharma said that nearly 56% of the bank’s loan book was under moratorium. This has come down to 52% in July. Sharma said that the bank is awaiting RBI approval to sell its stake in IDBI Mutual Fund and IDBI Federal Life Insurance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/idbi-bank-sees-rs-144cr-q1-profit-posts-rs-144cr-net/articleshow/77228603.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Patna||Nine DSPs posted in different districts||PATNA: Keeping in mind the Covid-19 pandemic and floods, the state police headquarters on Tuesday posted nine deputy superintendents of police (DSPs) in different districts, including six in Patna. All these nine DSPs have been asked to report to superintendents of police of the districts concerned. Most of these posts were lying vacant for some time. Sources said the postings were made on the orders of IG (headquarters) Nayyar Hasnain Khan, who had stressed on the need to fill the vacant posts in the wake of several police personnel testing positive due to Covid-19. Economic offences unit DSP Rajan Kumar has been deputed as DSP (headquarters) in Buxar while special branch DSP Dwarika Pal, posted in Patna, has been made DSP (headquarters) in Arwal. Three STF DSPs posted in Patna – Sunil Kumar Sharma, Aman Kumar and Raj Kishore Singh – have been deputed as DSP (headquarters) in Araria, Supaul and Vaishali, respectively. CID DSP Murli Manohar Manjhi has been deputed in Jehanabad. DSP Mukul Kumar Ranjan from Bihar Police Academy in Rajgir has been deputed as DSP (headquarters) in Munger. Munger DSP (headquarters) Shibli Nomani has been made Hilsa SDPO while Nishit Priya, who was posted in women’s battalion in Sasaram, has been made SDPO of Majhaul in Begusarai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nine-dsps-posted-in-different-districts/articleshow/77226392.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 29, 2020||Patna||‘Sushant Singh Rajput’s family approached CM’||PATNA: The family of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput had approached CM Nitish Kumar to seek support in the inquiry into his suicide, following which an FIR was lodged in Patna on Saturday, JD(U) insiders claimed. A senior JD(U) functionary, preferring anonymity, told TOI that Sushant’s family thought Mumbai police was not fair in handling the case. “A message was conveyed to the CM by Sushant’s family, which considered that Mumbai police was under pressure from the Bollywood bigwigs. The family members feel that 75 years’ old Sushant’s father cannot fight for justice in Mumbai and wanted Bihar government’s support as he has documentary proof that a female friend of his son withdrew large sum of money from his bank accounts,” he said and added: “It is not a coincidence that a Bihar Police team reached Mumbai to carry out investigation in the case within three days of lodging the FIR.” JD(U) national secretary general K C Tyagi said the Bihar government and police were trying everything possible to get a thorough investigation conducted as per the FIR. “We all feel the loss of a rising star from Bihar,” he said. LJP chief Chirag Paswan also talked to Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray on Monday and demanded a CBI probe into the case. “The Maharashtra CM said all those whose names have come up in the investigation are being quizzed by Mumbai police. He said Mumbai police is conducting the inquiry with all seriousness and if thought necessary, he would order for a CBI inquiry. He said nobody will be spared, if found guilty,” Chirag said in his two tweets. Chirag told reporters on Tuesday that Sushant’s suicide was a matter of concern for him. “There has been a delay and FIR should have been lodged much before. But now that an FIR has been lodged, I hope the Bihar and Mumbai police will work together to find out the truth,” he said. Watch Sushant Singh Rajput's father KK Singh approaches Bihar CM Nitish Kumar seeking support to get justice for his son||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sushants-family-approached-cm/articleshow/77226786.cms||Piyush Tripathi
July 29, 2020||Patna||Many police stations under floodwaters in Bihar||PATNA: Policemen are facing a tough time in flood-affected north Bihar districts as several police stations have been inundated by floodwaters. East Champaran SP Naveen Chandra Jha said Sugauli and Panchpakhri police stations had been vacated as after they were submerged by floodwaters. “Sugauli police station is functioning from a hotel in the area. All officers and some constables have been shifted there. The rest of the constables have been accommodated in a building near the hotel,” Jha added. The SP said Pachpakhri police station is functioning from the nearby block office. “The cops have been asked to work from the block office till the water recedes. All police personnel have been accommodated on the premises,” the SP said, adding floodwaters have also entered Sangrampur police station. Kusheswarsthan police station and Tilkeshwar outpost in Darbhanga are also affected. Biraul SDPO Dilip Kumar Jha said there is knee-deep water inside Kusheshwarsthan police station. “The cops are still working from there. Though Tilkeshwar outpost is not inundated, the area around it is under floodwaters,” he said. In Darbhanga town, Benta outspost and its surrounding areas are also inundated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-police-stations-under-floodwaters/articleshow/77226671.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 29, 2020||Gurgaon||Section 144 imposed near Ambala air base ahead of Rafale touchdown||AMBALA: The district administration imposed Section 144 (power to issue order in urgent cases of the nuisance of apprehended danger) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) in areas around the IAF station in Ambala cantonment on Tuesday, a day before the arrival of Rafale fighter jets. The orders by the Ambala deputy commissioner (DC) prohibit any photography or video-recording of the airbase. “The base is surrounded by villages like Dhulkot, Baldev Nagar, Garnala, Panjokhra, etc, and is in very close proximity of the national highway. Movement of anti-social elements near the air force vicinity and media persons taking photographs from houses in villages adjoining the station during the event (of arrival of jets) cannot be ruled out and will endanger the security of information. Therefore, I prohibit photography of any assets of the Air Force Station, Ambala, on July 29, 2020, from dusk to dawn with immediate effect,” states the order. Ambala SP Abhishek Jorwal said even media persons have been prohibited from taking photographs. “If anyone is found capturing IAF assets, action will be taken as per law,” he said. Ministry of defence spokesperson said, “No media coverage is planned on arrival (of jets). The final induction ceremony will take place in the second half of August 20, wherein full media coverage would be planned.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/sec-144-imposed-near-ambala-air-base-ahead-of-rafale-touchdown/articleshow/77229589.cms||Jaskaran Singh
July 29, 2020||Business||NPCI confirms WhatsApp Pay’s data localisation||BENGALURU: A filing by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) with the Supreme Court shows that the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) has told the banking regulator that Facebook-owned messaging application WhatsApp is now fully compliant with data-localisation norms. In a letter dated June 5, NPCI, which manages the Unified Payments Interface (UPI), told the regulator that it “confirms” WhatsApp has now satisfied data-localisation norms for payments service. This is the first time the umbrella payments body has confirmed WhatsApp Pay’s compliance status formally. TOI has reviewed the filing. “NPCI has reviewed the ‘Post-Change Review Report III’ certified by the independent third-party CERT-In empanelled auditor of WhatsApp — Deloitte. We submit herewith that we derive comfort from the reports submitted by Deloitte with regards to WhatsApp’s full compliance in the remaining three points on data storage guidelines issued by our office and accordingly complies with all five points in lines with requirements advised through your (RBI) letter dated November 1, 2019,” part of the letter to the RBI said. As reported by TOI, Deloitte was appointed by WhatsApp to audit its compliance after NPCI had asked it to make certain changes referred to earlier. Interestingly, the RBI is yet to specify when it will give the much-awaited final nod for WhatsApp to launch payments beyond the current trial-stage, which is restricted to 1 million users for two years. It has 400 million monthly active users. RBI’s response — which is part of proceedings after think-tank CASC challenged WhatsApp’s data compliance status — added that the apex court, thus, should dismiss the petition. “It’s clear NPCI has said they (WhatsApp) have complied with changes they were asked to make. Government’s nod is critical too,” a person aware of the matter said. The source was indicating the conflict of the messaging platform, with 2 billion users globally, resisting government requests to disclose the source of messages to curb rumours and hate speech. This would mean end-to-end encryption would be broken, which WhatsApp has been against and says only people who are messaging each other can read the conversations. Emails sent to the RBI, NPCI and WhatsApp India did not elicit any response on the matter. Last week, WhatsApp India head Abhijit Bose said it can bring at least 200 million of its users to UPI, which is seeing steady growth in digital payments amid the pandemic. UPI is dominated by Google Pay, Walmart-backed PhonePe, Alibaba and SoftBank-backed Paytm along with Amazon Pay. Bose also outlined plans to start multiple pilots in areas like digital lending, micro-insurance and micro-pension in 18 months. In June, Brazil suspended WhatsApp’s payments service to “preserve competitive environment” just after a week of its launch. WhatsApp, then, had said it remains committed to India and is working with local banks and regulators to launch payments services here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/npci-confirms-whatsapp-pays-data-localisation/articleshow/77228456.cms||Digbijay Mishra
July 29, 2020||Pune||Bio-medical trash disposal rate hike opposed in Pune||PUNE: Clinics, small hospitals and nursing homes attached to the Indian Medical Association’s Pune chapter have objedcted to the revised rates for scientific disposal of bio-medical waste (non-Covid waste) in the city. The revised rate with a 10% rise became effective retrospectively from April 2020. “The hike is unreasonable and insensitive. Small clinics and nursing hospitals in the city are already running in losses amidst various constraints, capping, and overheads. We want PMC to waive the charges for bio-medical waste disposal at small clinical establishments entirely for this year,” Sanjay Patil, chairman of the PMA’s Hospital Board of India, Pune chapter, said. Sanjeev Wavare, assistant medical officer of health, PMC, said, "We will talk to all the stakeholders in this connection."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bio-med-trash-disposal-rate-hike-opposed/articleshow/77229606.cms||Umesh Isalkar
July 29, 2020||Nagpur||With 6 casualties in a day, Nagpur dist Covid toll at 99||Nagpur: The district registered six Covid deaths on Tuesday — 60-year-old woman from Kamptee, admitted on July 27, died at IGGMCH isolation ward, while five patients including 54-year-old man from Sanjeevan Society at Kadbi Chowk, admitted on July 26; 72-year-old man from Teka Naka slum, admitted on July 25; 50-year-old man from Akola, admitted on July 28; 85-year-old man from Buldhana, admitted on July 27 and 76-year-old man admitted on July 25 died at GMCH. With this, the number of Covid deaths has increased to 99. Another 151 persons tested positive for Covid-19 taking the number of total patients to 4,487. Providing relief amid the gloom, 102 patients recovered and were discharged taking the total number of recoveries to 2,685. In all, 1,703 patients are under treatment as on date. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe notified 50 new containment zones, highest in a single day. The total number of containment zones in existence in the city increased to 265. Three containment zones were denotified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-6-casualties-in-a-day-nagpur-dist-covid-toll-at-99/articleshow/77229600.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 29, 2020||Patna||Donate plasma, IMA urges recovered patients in Bihar's Bhagalpur||BHAGALPUR: With Covid-19 cases increasing alarmingly in the district, the Bhagalpur chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) has made an appeal to the patients who have recovered from the infection to donate plasma and save lives of people from the deadly virus. According to medical experts, plasma therapy has far-reaching outcome in treating patients suffering from Covid-19 infection. They said screening of people for infectious diseases like HIV and Hepatitis was necessary before plasma donation. Of the total 2,279 Covid patients in the district, 1,648 have recovered. Also, 383 of 496 Covid patients have recovered in neighbouring Banka district. So far, 27 people have died in Bhagalpur due to Covid and one Banka. Dr Birendra Kumar Badal, secretary of Bhagalpur unit of IMA, said plasma therapy involves taking out plasma from the recovered patients after 28 days of their discharge from hospital. “The plasma of the recovered patients is then transfused into critically sick corona patients. The antibodies developed in a recovered patient helps in further development of antibodies in infected patients for their fight against the deadly virus,” he said. Dr Badal added, “A recovered patient has to donate as low as only 25-30ml and up to 400-500ml once in every 15 days up to four months after discharge. The plasma can be donated at the designated blood banks and centres under the supervision of experts.” Dr Badal said the IMA is trying to get requisite permission from the state health department for plasma donation at Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH). “Many doctors and patients, who have recovered from Covid-19, have come forward to donate plasma,” he said. Plasma is the clear, slightly yellowish liquid portion of blood that remains after red blood cells, white blood cells, platelets and other cellular components are removed, Dr Badal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/donate-plasma-ima-urges-recovered-patients-in-bhagalpur/articleshow/77226476.cms||Kumar Rajesh
July 29, 2020||Patna||Ramping up Covid tests health secretary’s first priority in Bihar||PATNA: State health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit, who assumed charge on Tuesday, said ramping up Covid tests was his first priority. Soon after assuming charge, Amrit visited Covid-dedicated Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) wearing PPE kits. During his visit, Amrit interacted with patients and also gave several directions to the hospital administration. “I will visit the hospital once again on August 8 to see whether the instructions issued by me are implemented or not. Expect things to change as far as treatment of Covid patients at NMCH is concerned,” Amrit told TOI. He said the NMCH mortuary would be made functional within the next four days. The NMCH had hit the headlines for wrong reasons after some videos showing bodies lying unattended had gone viral on social media. People were also complaining of facing problems in getting admission at the hospital. NMCH superintendent Dr Binod Kumar Singh said three freezer boxes have been bought to keep bodies. “A team of 10 people has been engaged to remove bodies. The hospital now has 10 mortuary vans. Hence, removal of bodies will no more be a problem.” Meanwhile, Amrit said the Bihar Medical Services and Infrastructure Corporation Limited has been asked to procure one mortuary van each for all the districts and two for Patna and Rs 2.3 crore has been sanctioned for the purpose. Amrit’s focus on Covid-19 tests augurs well for the state as far as checking the spread of the virus is concerned. CM Nitish Kumar had asked the health department almost a fortnight back to test at least 20,000 samples per day. However, only around 14,000 samples are tested per day as of now. Asked how the testing will increase, Amrit said, “Wait and watch. We will make this happen.” Amrit has assumed charge as the principal secretary of health department at a time when Covid-19 cases are rising alarmingly in the state and the opposition trying to corner the government over the issue. A central team which visited the state recently was not satisfied with the work being done to control Covid-19. The team had asked the state to increase the number of tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ramping-up-covid-tests-health-secretarys-first-priority/articleshow/77226245.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 29, 2020||Patna||Two lynched for cattle theft in Bihar's Jamui village||PATNA: Two persons were lynched for allegedly stealing a pair of oxen belonging to Bajo Rai at Rai Tola of Tilauna village under Simultala police station in Jamui district in the wee hours of Tuesday. Police said the incident took place around 1am when some villagers, on night patrolling due to rise in cattle theft cases, saw the two fleeing with a pair of stolen oxen. They chased, caught and mercilessly thrashed the two, leading to their death. The deceased were identified as Nageshwar Paswan (45) and Lalmohan Paswan (40) of Mansinghdih village under Chandradih police station in Jamui district. Jhajha SDPO Bhaskar Ranjan said police was informed around 4am. The victims were rushed to the Sadar hospital where the doctors declared them brought dead. “The criminal antecedents of the deceased are being verified,” he said over the phone. “We spotted the two thieves escaping with a pair of oxen and raised an alarm. Some other residents reached the site and badly beat them up, causing grievous injuries,” said a local resident. Over a dozen incidents of cattle and pumping stations theft were reported in Tilauna last month. A police officer posted in Jamui said Mansinghdih has acquired the dubious distinction of a ‘village of thieves’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-lynched-for-cattle-theft-in-jamui-village/articleshow/77226732.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh to raise Rs 800 crore from sale of holdings||SHIMLA: To carry out developmental work, the Himachal Pradesh government is going to raise money from financial markets. The state has notified the sale of government stock (securities) of eight-year tenure for an aggregate amount of Rs 500 crore and it will have the option to retain an additional amount of up to Rs 300 crore. The auction will be conducted by the Reserve Bank of India at its Mumbai office on Tuesday. Himachal Pradesh is already under debt of over Rs 50,000 crore but taking loan for developmental purposes has become a compulsion for the government due to its limited income resources. In the financial year 2020-21, the state government is taking the loan for the first time. According to notification, the proceeds of government securities will be utilised for the development programmes and consent of the Union government has been obtained as required by Article 293 (3) of the Constitution of India. Government stock will be sold by auction at a coupon rate to be determined by the RBI at the yield-based auction under multiple price formats. Government stock up to 10% of the notified amount of the sale will be allotted to eligible individuals and institutions subject to a maximum limit of 1% of the notified amount for a single bid as per the ‘revised scheme for non-competitive bidding facility’ in the auctions of state government securities of the general notification. The result of the auction shall be displayed by RBI on its website on the same day. Payment by successful bidders will be made on Wednesday. The tenure of the stock will commence on July 29 and loan will be repaid at par on July 29, 2028. Notification says that cut-off yield determined at the auction will be the coupon rate percent per annum on the stock sold at the auction. The interest will be paid on January 29 and July 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hp-to-raise-rs-800-crore-from-sale-of-holdings/articleshow/77229561.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Business||Work in crisis-hit biz? You are in demand||MUMBAI: If you have worked in sectors that have witnessed crisis situations — such as automobiles, aviation and hospitality — to name a few, your skills could be in demand. The tag of having worked in an industry that has seen huge disruptions now sits pretty on a CV. Hiring agencies said they are getting specific mandates from firms to bring them candidates who have worked in a sector that got disrupted. As consolidation across industries is expected to increase, talent that can work under pressure with resilience and enable such transitions is in demand. Read the story on TOI+Why India Inc Prefers Recruiting Talent With Experience Of Handling Big Disruptions||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/work-in-crisis-hit-biz-you-are-in-demand/articleshow/77228871.cms||Namrata Singh
July 29, 2020||Kochi||Auto drivers reluctant to get tested, health workers in a fix||Kochi: As the number of positive cases from clusters in Chellanam, Keezhmad and Aluva has been steadily declining, health authorities have shifted their focus to other parts of the district, especially West Kochi, where a cluster has been slowly developing. Till July 27, Fort Kochi, Mattanchery and their neighbouring areas together had reported 52 contact cases. Meanwhile, on Monday, authorities started swab collection of people in the high risk category in Fort Kochi. Auto drivers were also called for testing. However, many expressed their unwillingness to turn up at Fort Kochi government taluk hospital. Only less than 10 drivers turned up at the hospital on Monday. Later, health authorities approached police to persuade the drivers as per orders from the control room. As a result, 60 more drivers turned up for testing on Tuesday. “We received a list of 150 auto rickshaw drivers in the Fort Kochi area with the help of union leaders and police. But many were reluctant saying they do not go on passenger trips and were transporting only vegetables. Auto drivers should secure Covid-19 negative certificates to operate in areas which have become clusters. We will discuss this issue at the district level. Auto drivers from other parts of Ernakulam had cooperated with us completely. But we faced resistance in Fort Kochi. Many were under the false impression that they would get infected if they turned up for swab collection at the hospital. We can facilitate a mobile team for the same at a different place, if they are ready,” said a health official. Symptom surveillance also started in division II of Fort Kochi and it will cover 2,000 houses. Five Asha workers have been entrusted with the task of collecting details of people with symptoms like fever and other Covid-19 symptoms. Of the 250 houses surveyed on Monday, four people displayed symptoms and they were shifted to the taluk hospital immediately. “Our priority is to collect samples from auto drivers. We cannot let anyone go untested because they are unwilling to. We will conduct a camp at Thuruthu Kadavu and at Nallu Kadavu in the coming days. Fort Kochi and Mattancherry areas are different from other places because of its high density of population. We are preparing a separate plan to test people from high risk areas,” said the official. Meanwhile, a health official in Fort Kochi taluk hospital said, “We don’t know the reason behind the reluctance among auto drivers. They may be feeling that if tested positive, they will have to undergo treatment or go on quarantine.” However, auto rickshaw drivers’ union district convenor M B Syamantha Bhadran said he was unaware of the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/auto-drivers-reluctant-to-get-tested-health-workers-in-a-fix/articleshow/77226697.cms||T C Sreemol
July 29, 2020||Jaipur||Cases in clusters: Collectors may impose localised lockdown in worst Covid-hit areas||JAIPUR: Following a surge in active cases which zoomed past the 10,000 mark in the state on Monday, the state government might take tough decision of imposing lockdown in certain areas that are currently witnessing a spike. In certain areas, where the pandemic threatens to spiral out of control, district collectors have been authorized to take decision on imposing lockdown using their conscience. Currently, the state government is creating micro containment zones covering three-four houses in a neighborhood where one or more persons test positive. Initially, the containment zones were bigger in size covering more than 1km area around the affected place. However, giving boost to economic activities, the state government is now allowing micro containment zones. But in certain areas, the state government may impose lockdown where cases are being reported in clusters. The health department has analysed the situation in the entire state to find out the districts which are currently worst-hit due to Covid. The indicator of the current situation is the presence of active cases. The more the active cases in an area, the more the chances of spread of the virus. Eyeing the current situation, the state government is focusing more to contain the spread of the virus in such areas. “Lockdown in certain areas may be imposed in areas where the cases have been increasing and necessary directions have been issued to the district collectors on it,” said Raghu Sharma, health minister. Apart from health department officials and doctors, district collectors will play a key role in containing the virus. “If the local circumstances, in terms of the pattern of the spread of infection, warrant a tough measure, district administration have been authorized to take a call in this regard at the local level in consultation with the concerned stakeholders,” said Rohit Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary (home). However, the health department is also taking measures in Jodhpur and Alwar, which are worst-affected districts of the state currently. Officials in the two districts have been directed to intensify contact tracing and random sampling. Capacity of testing has also been increased to 42,540 per day. So far, more than 14 lakh samples have been tested in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cases-in-clusters-collectors-may-impose-localised-lockdown-in-worst-covid-hit-areas/articleshow/77229615.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Nagpur||Former employee held for burglary||Nagpur: Pachpaoli police arrested one Akash Gupta on Monday for allegedly committing burglary at his former employer’s place in Pachpaoli on July 25, when the family was in quarantine centre. Apart from Gupta, police have also arrested Vinay Patekar and Tushar Abhenge. A minor was rounded up too. The gang committed the theft driven by financial need, as they were out of work during lockdown. The gang decamped with valuables worth Rs2.57 lakhs. Pachpaoli police, under senior PI Kishor Nagrale, assistant PI SS Suroshe and others, have already recovered valuables worth Rs1.87 lakhs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/former-employee-held-for-burglary/articleshow/77229611.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Chandigarh||House panels to call for report on errant officials||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana assembly has decided to take the action taken report (ATR) from departments into the observations or decisions taken by various committees, especially while indicting officials. Haryana speaker Gian Chand Gupta convened a meeting of all committee chairpersons on Wednesday to discuss future course of action. This, he said, has become urgent in view of the fact that many departments had failed to submit action taken reports. “The committees are constituted to act as alternate redressal system, especially on issues raised in assembly or by MLAs. We have seen that the departments have not taken observations of committees seriously. As a result, even the time-bound action taken reports are not submitted. This will not happen now,’’ said Gupta. In case of observations where officials were indicted or department heads were directed to act against errant officials, departments took it lightly on the assumption that proceedings of a committee become irrelevant with change of members after one year, Gupta pointed out. There are 12 committees which monitor functioning of all departments in the government of Haryana. These committees have frequently recommended action against officials. Last month, head of the committee on schedule castes and schedule tribes, Ishwar Singh called for records related to pending cases against schedule castes and scheduled tribes. As the officer either failed to provide complete information, he sought action against supervising officers concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/house-panels-to-call-for-report-on-errant-officials/articleshow/77229619.cms||Manvir Saini
July 29, 2020||Ranchi||Dhanbad to recruit 60 doctors for Covid duty||DHANBAD: Facing a manpower crunch amid a steady surge in Covid-19 cases, the Dhanbad district administration on Tuesday started the process of recruiting 60 doctors at different dedicated Covid hospitals and care centres to treat infected patients. A list of these doctors has provided by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) and officials have asked them to report to the office of civil surgeon Dr Gopal Das within two days so that the newly earmarked Covid care centres can be activated. The administration has also initiated deployment of 10 doctors at various places, including three at the new Covid health centre at PMCH cath lab, five at sadar hospital treatment center and two at Tata Central Hospital. At present, 36 doctors engaged in various shifts at the 100-bedded dedicated Covid hospital in Dhanbad. A majority of them are from Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) while some are medical officers of primary and community health centers in the district. Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh said, “We have appointed 10 doctors at different Covid treatment centers and 60 more doctors will be deputed by the civil surgeon,” said. On July 22, the district administration deputed 20 doctors for Covid duty, but majority of them backed out claiming that they are unable to work on the frontline either due to old age and comorbidities. Some had said they were not even present in Dhanbad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dhanbad-to-recruit-60-docs-for-covid-duty/articleshow/77228438.cms||Praduman Choubey
July 29, 2020||Surat||Bizman turns farmhouse into facility||Surat: Coronavirus seems to be making Surtis better, rather than bitter as many, particularly those who have fought off the virus successfully, have become very philanthropic — sharing their plasma to their homes — with fellow sufferers. Two businessmen in the city have opened the doors of their private properties by turning these into Care Isolation Centres (CCICs) for treatment and isolation of convalescing Covid patients.Post discharge, Covid-19 patients who don’t have isolation facility at their own homes, can now head straightaway to this farmhouse, at Simadi village in Kamrej taluka, some 30km away from the hustle bustle of the city to spend their 14 days of isolation period in the lap of nature. And what’s more, it’s all for free. A realtor and social activist, Pravin Bhalala, 34, who could successfully fight off the virus himself, has thrown open his farmhouse to provide special facility to such Covid-19 patients. Spread across four bighas of land, Bhalala’s farmhouse can accommodate about 15 patients who will be taken care of by five caretakers with home-cooked food and breakfast.Talking with TOI, Pravin Bhalala said, “After recovery, I was advised 14 days home isolation and I decided to stay at my farmhouse in Kamrej. While recuperating there, I suddenly thought about the poor people who don’t have home isolation facility and that’s when I decided to turn my house into a facility for recovered Covid-19 patients.”Bhalala said that four survivors are enjoying their free stay at his farmhouse now. “I have three other farmhouses which I plan to turn into isolation centres for Covid-19 survivors,” he added. Interestingly, Bhalala was the first in the city to turn his residential project with 200 ready flats at Velanja village in Olpad taluka into the Covid care centre in the month of April. After he was left with a bad after-taste from the hefty medical bill served by a private hospital, realtor Kadar Shaikh, 59, decided to convert his 30,000 sqft private office space at Adajan Patiya into a Covid care centre where he provides free treatment to Covid-19 patients. Shaikh’s elder brother, Ghulam Shaikh, 63, had tested positive and was admitted to a private hospital for 10 days where he was asked to pay Rs 12 lakh as hospital charges for the treatment. Shaikh thought about poor people who cannot afford the exorbitant charges of the private hospitals and decided to change things, his way.Talking to TOI, Shaikh said: “With the help of Surat Municipal Corporation authorities, we were successful in setting up the 84-bed hospital, which includes 74 oxygen beds and 10 ICU beds with ventilators on the three floors of a commercial complex in Adajan Patiya. The hospital will be managed by SMC authorities. Patients from all the communities will be given free-of-cost treatment. We will ensure that all needy patients get timely treatment.”“The hospital will run till the coronavirus pandemic continues to ravage the city. Later, I have plans to convert the office space into the full-fledged hospital for the benefit of city’s needy and poor patients” added Shaikh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bizman-turns-farmhouse-into-facility/articleshow/77226803.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: Covid strain on key infrastructures starts to peak||PUNE: Pune urban is set to get massive makeshift hospitals with ventilator beds soon, but it's the rural areas that are facing serious deficiencies in critical Covid-19 treatment. Latest data show there are just nine vacant beds with ventilator support for the entire Pune rural region, which comprises 13 talukas. Patients from these parts now have no option but travel long distances to hospitals in the city where, unfortunately, there's still no guarantee they will find beds. Plans are on to increase the number of beds in these city hospitals but serious strain is starting to show on healthcare infrastructure in the nearby towns and villages. Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram said while cases are on the rise in urban centres, the numbers have been relatively low in the rural areas. He said there are enough beds, but the virtual dashboard — supposed to display bed availability in real-time - is not being used much. “In the rural areas, residents are not referring to the the app or the dashboard as much as their counterparts in urban centres. Many in these towns and villages still believe in calling up hospitals. At the same time, the civil surgeon should alert authorities if there are shortages of beds,” he said. The collector said jumbo Covid Care Centres are being set up at Junnar and Manchar along with more ICU beds at some of the hospitals. The district administration has said that its aim is to ensure patients from the rural areas find treatment locally, instead of having to travel long distances to cities where hospitals are already overwhelmed. Officials from the administration said that beds, particularly with oxygen support, are being increased in number across Pune rural. Former bureaucrat Mahesh Zagade told TOI that hospitals in the rural areas should be well-equipped so that local patients and their families don’t have travel all the way to big cities. “The ramping of infrastructure is essential for rural areas,” he said. But authorities overseeing Covid-19 containment in the villages have been keeping up surveillance and treatment protocols despite the many challenges. One of the strategies that has been employed is the Pune zilla parishad’s (ZP) Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme which secures real-time information on the situation in villages across the district. The IDSP staffers make over 500 calls to affected villages to collect feedback on active/ critical patients and deaths, if any. The programme, which also tracks medicine supply, is key to deciding containment measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/13-talukas-currently-have-just-nine-ventilator-units/articleshow/77229620.cms||Nisha Nambiar
July 29, 2020||Chandigarh||JJ Act, CARA rules not for Hindu adoptive parents||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has ruled that in case of direct adoption from biological parents by Hindu adoptive parents, even if they are of foreign nationality, there is no requirement to follow the procedure either under the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, or the central adoption resource authority (CARA) adoption regulations. The court has also made it clear that it would not be open to the passport officer going into the validity of an adoption at the time of the issuance of passport. Therefore, the passport officer cannot refuse the passport beyond the statutory provisions set out in Section 6 of the Passport Act. The high court also said that valid adoption under Hindu Adoption and Maintenance Act (HAMA), 1956, of a minor child cannot be revoked until disproved. The Act applies to all religions apart from Muslims, Christians, Parsis or Jews. Justice Nirmaljit Kaur passed this judgment while allowing a petition moved by a minor girl, Jasmine Kaur seeking direction to the regional passport authority to issue her a passport by dispensing with the requirement of a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the CARA. “It is not mandatory to invoke the JJ Act, 2015 in the facts of the present case where the adoption is a direct adoption by the parents to the known adoptive parents/relatives under HAMA… NOC from CARA is required only by foreign parents and not Indian parents,” said the court, while taking note of the detailed submissions of the amicus curiae, advocate Anil Malhotra, who specialises in such matters. Therefore, the court directed the CARA to issue a no-objection certificate (NOC) to the adoptive parents of the petitioner for taking their child to UK within two weeks. The regional passport office has been directed to immediately issue passport to the petitioner within two weeks of the receipt of NOC from CARA. Jasmine and her twin sister were born on November 15, 2017, in India to her natural parents Manohar Lal and Gian Kaur. Jasmine was adopted by her mother’s real sister, Balbir Kaur and her husband as per the Hindu Adoption and Maintenance Act (HAMA), 1956, in Thalla village of Punjab’s Jalandhar district on November 16, 2018. Balbir is an NRI, OCI card holder and citizen of the United Kingdom. But when the petitioner, Jasmine applied for the passport along with all the relevant documents, she was refused the passport by the passport authority on the ground that NOC from CARA or photocopy from Recognized Indian Placement Agency (RIPA) was required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jj-act-cara-rules-not-for-hindu-adoptive-parents/articleshow/77229612.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Pune||PMC to rope in medical & nursing students||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will rope in medical and nursing students on remuneration basis to meet the rising demand for medical experts in its fight against Covid-19. The standing committee of the PMC on Tuesday approved a proposal in this regard, besides deciding to provide insurance to private medical practitioners. As per the proposal, medical postgraduate and undergraduate students from all streams, including allopathy, homoeopathy and ayurveda, will be eligible. “The civic administration will now reach out to the colleges concerned. All those willing to be part of this initiative will be allowed to join,” Hemant Rasane, chairman of the standing committee, told TOI. As per the proposal, the participating students will get remuneration in the range of Rs 300 to Rs 500 per day. “These students will mostly work as assistants. They will be appointed in civic-run hospitals as well as at Covid care centres across the municipal limits,” a senior PMC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-to-rope-in-medical-nursing-students/articleshow/77229614.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
July 29, 2020||Delhi||Wastepickers write to Centre over rights||NEW DELHI: As the Union environment ministry is collecting feedback on the United Framework for Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) under Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016, a group of over 12,000 waste pickers, doorstep waste collectors and other recyclers from Delhi-NCR have asked for more inclusiveness for waste pickers along a well-defined role. The last date for collecting feedback is July 31. Members of the group Safai Sena wrote to the ministry on Wednesday, saying that the EPR — that makes producers accountable for recycling the waste being generated — needs to be focused around waste pickers instead of pivoting around producer responsibility organisations (PROs). The group has submitted that the role of wastepickers and waste collectors has not been defined in the document. “According to a Central Institute of Plastics Engineering & Technology report and Central Pollution Control Board, there are approximately 1,000-4,000 informal and unregistered plastic recycling and manufacturing units in India. The government has to ensure that these do not get shut down and instead are upgraded for more efficient plastic recycling,” the letter said. “Our role should be clearly defined and waste pickers should become key stakeholders in this framework. This framework gives no importance or focus to our community, instead allowing for companies and producers to not work with us or bypass us,” said the submission. Jaiprakash Choudhary, secretary, Safai Sena, Delhi-NCR said that waste workers, who have worked their entire lives in recycling plastic in the country, need to be recognised, since they will be pivotal to how plastic is managed. “If not for waste pickers, plastic would have been dumped in landfills, polluting the city’s water, air and soil. The framework is giving unnecessary importance to producers and PROs,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/wastepickers-write-to-centre-over-rights/articleshow/77250383.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Lucknow||UP to decode virus with antibody testing||Lucknow: After chasing numbers, the UP government has decided to work on the quality of testing. In wake of the new goal, the state is gearing up to undertake sero-surveillance exercise. Under this method, health teams would collect and test blood samples from a large sample to decode the virus and its nature vis-à-vis UP. “The aim is to understand the extent of spread and also evaluate localized nature of the virus which is needed to study dynamics related to herd immunity,” said Alok Kumar, secretary to CM, overseeing testing activities. He said that the state was in the process of buying the required antibodies test kits. Experts said that whenever any infection attacks a human, the body combats with a protective immune response. In this process, an antibody (a kind of protein) called immunoglobulin (IG) is produced. While there are different types of IGs in the body, scientists can look for IG-M and IG-G in case of Covid-19. The IGM antibodies tell about a current or recent infection and may reduce to undetectable levels soon after, IGG tell about past infection and can be reliably detected about 15 days after symptom onset. Public health specialist and epidemiologist, Dr Vishwajeet Kumar said: “Knowing that the majority of cases are asymptomatic and therefore liable to be missed by RT-PCR testing, seroprevalence surveys could be a significant step in the ongoing battle against the pandemic. It can provide valuable insights into the extent of prior Covid infection.” “Seroprevalence also aids determining socio-demographic risk factors and co-morbid conditions needed to develop a more precise risk assessment scale for population-based Covid screening,” he explained. Several virologists have noted that antibody tests help to identify the spread in the community. The antibodies tests have been criticised for not detecting the T-cells that directly target and kill the infected cells. Produced in the thymus gland T-cells are part of the human immune response against viral infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-decode-virus-with-antibody-testing/articleshow/77230346.cms||Shailvee Sharda
July 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad-Pune rail line sought||Aurangabad: Activists have demanded a new railway line between Aurangabad and Pune citing huge traffic on the route. Activists have also sought a push for pending demands related to improving the rail connectivity and infrastructure through a memorandum submitted to the Centre by newly elected Rajya Sabha MP Bhagwat Karad. Railway activist Anant Borkar on Tuesday said that the key railway demands of Aurangabad and Marathwada as a whole have been badly neglected for years. “There is no effective rail-connectivity between Aurangabad and Pune despite growing connect between these two cities. The existing rail route via Daund is too long. The new rail line would be a win-win situation for both passengers as well as the Indian Railways,” he said. Veteran railway activist Omprakash Varma said the 88km Aurangabad-Chalisgaon stretch and the 22km Rotegaon-Kopargaon stretch were pending for years. “Both these routes will augment the the connectivity demands of the region and can further boost its industrial growth and religious tourism. The government must expedite these projects now,” he said. “The upcoming Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor project and historic sites such as Ajanta-Ellora and three Jyotirlinga temples merit effective rail connectivity. We will stage an agitation in the future if our demands are not not,” Varma said.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-pune-rail-line-sought/articleshow/77226757.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Goa||University to hold special BE exams||Panaji: Goa University, in a circular issued on Tuesday, said that it will conduct special exams for engineering students with backlog, who could not apply for the August 2020 exam “The University has decided to hold Special Examinations for Bachelor of Engineering for RC 07-08 / RC 16-17 / RC 19-20 students with backlogs who could not apply for the examination scheduled in August 2020. The Special Examination will be conducted in Sept - Oct 2020 through Online Mode,” registrar YV Reddy said. Registrations for the exam will begin on August 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/university-to-hold-special-be-exams/articleshow/77229616.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Pune||Valuables stolen from Ozar Ganapati temple||PUNE: Two unidentified men stole a gold-plated silver umbrella and a donation box from the famous Vighnahar Ganapati temple at Ozar in Junnar taluka in the early hours of Tuesday. “The box was later found abandoned near Kukadi river behind the temple,” said Deepali Khanna, deputy superintendent of police Pune Rural (Junnar division). Ganesh Kavde, trustee of the Vighnahar Ganapati Devsthan Trust, said, “There was cash amounting to about Rs5,000 in the donation box. Due to the lockdown, the temple has been closed for the past four months. The gold-plated umbrella was made of about 1kg silver.” Kavde said that the theft came to light around 5.30am on Tuesday when the temple priest noticed the broken door of the sanctum sanctorum and missing umbrella that covered the Ganesh idol. “After getting information from the priest, I immediately contacted the in-charge of the Otur police station Parashuram Kamble,” Kavde said. He added that it was later found that the suspects had also stolen one of two donation boxes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/valuables-stolen-from-ozar-ganapati-temple/articleshow/77229618.cms||Mihir Tanksale
July 29, 2020||Kochi||Corp staff not at fault but need training, says secy||Kochi: Kochi corporation secretary, who looked into the incident in which health wing officials of the local body ordered closure of a poultry shop which had the licence as per Kerala Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (KSME) Facilitation Act, has recommended district industries centre to impart training to corporation staff. The corporation staff didn’t have much understanding of the new act and imparting training will help them become aware of the proceedings as per the act, the secretary said. At the same time, the secretary justified the closure of the poultry shop citing that the shopowner was engaged in activities like slaughtering of animals despite he was licenced only to sell meat. “We have sent a report to the LSG secretary. We have also referred the case to district industries centre, which is the nodal agency for implementing the KSME Facilitation Act. It is up to the agency to take action in this regard,” corporation secretary R Rahul said. A no objection certificate from pollution control board is must for engaging in red activities like culling of animals, the report by the secretary stated. Officials with the corporation acted on the basis of the new clauses in Kerala Municipality Act amended as per the KSME Facilitation Act. Though the shopowner procured a self-certification, it was for selling meat and not for other activities, the report further stated. Health wing officials of Kochi corporation, who conducted an inspection on July 24, had shut down a poultry shop at Thykoodam. Officials claimed that the firm didn’t have plants for treating solid waste as well as waste water while the owner showed a self-certification he procured through an online platform as per the KSME Facilitation Act. The corporation secretary heard the shopowner before preparing a report on the issue and sending it to the LSG secretary. In his letter to the general manager of district industries centre, the corporation secretary has suggested programmes to create awareness on the act among public and also among corporation officials so that the staff will be aware of the fact that they are just facilitators and not implementing officers of licence rules as per the new act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/corp-staff-not-at-fault-but-need-training-says-secy/articleshow/77226742.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man held for mobile phone shop robbery||Ahmedabad: City crime branch on Tuesday nabbed a man who was accused of threatening a cellphone shop owner in Gurukul area at knife point and robbing him of five cellphones worth Rs 70,000 from the shop. The accused was identified as Ashfaq Memon, 28, a resident of Danilimda. A crime branch team was formed to search the accused and the cops nabbed him on Tuesday morning from Danilimda. Memon was earlier involved in theft cases in Danilimda and Sarkhej and loot cases reported under Ramol, Isanpur and Kagdapith police stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-held-for-mobile-phone-shop-robbery/articleshow/77228441.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Indore||628 fresh infections take MP coronavirus tally to 29,217||With 628 new cases, Madhya Pradesh’s Covid tally crossed 29,000-mark, taking it to 29,217. In addition, 10 new Covid deaths were also reported in the state from Chattarpur (3), Indore (2), Bhopal (1), Ujjain (1), Ratlam (1), Tikamgarh (1) and Sehore (1). With the 10 deaths reported on Tuesday, the state’s Covid death toll is now 830. In the recent spurt of cases in the state, 15624 new cases have been reported in the state since July 1. On an average over 558 positive cases are being reported everyday in July. While fresh cases were reported from 43 out of the 52 districts, deaths were reported from seven districts on Tuesday. As per the state health bulletin, it was Bhopal district where maximum 170 new positive cases were reported on Tuesday. Meanwhile, 552 persons recovered from the deadly disease and were discharged from hospitals across the state. With this, the total recoveries in the state is now 20,343. The recovery rate in Madhya Pradesh is now 69.6%. It was more than 76% on July 1. As many as 3,226 localities across these 52 districts have been declared as containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/628-fresh-infections-take-state-corona-tally-to-29217/articleshow/77232062.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Bhopal||628 fresh infections take MP coronavirus tally to 29,217||With 628 new cases, Madhya Pradesh’s Covid tally crossed 29,000-mark, taking it to 29,217. In addition, 10 new Covid deaths were also reported in the state from Chattarpur (3), Indore (2), Bhopal (1), Ujjain (1), Ratlam (1), Tikamgarh (1) and Sehore (1). With the 10 deaths reported on Tuesday, the state’s Covid death toll is now 830. In the recent spurt of cases in the state, 15624 new cases have been reported in the state since July 1. On an average over 558 positive cases are being reported everyday in July. While fresh cases were reported from 43 out of the 52 districts, deaths were reported from seven districts on Tuesday. As per the state health bulletin, it was Bhopal district where maximum 170 new positive cases were reported on Tuesday. Meanwhile, 552 persons recovered from the deadly disease and were discharged from hospitals across the state. With this, the total recoveries in the state is now 20,343. The recovery rate in Madhya Pradesh is now 69.6%. It was more than 76% on July 1. As many as 3,226 localities across these 52 districts have been declared as containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/628-fresh-infections-take-state-corona-tally-to-29217/articleshow/77228442.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Pune||Rs 250 crore spent in 4 months, but still not enough beds: Pune mayor||PUNE: Mayor Murlidhar Mohol has said that Pune Municipal Corporation limits still do not have enough Covid-19 beds despite a Rs 250-crore expenditure in the last four months on disease control. Mohol, who himself recovered from infection earlier this month, demanded the state government release more funds for the PMC. The civic body, he said, has already spent nearly two times the annual budget reserved for its health department. On an average, a massive sum of Rs 100 crore is reserved in the municipal budget for building health infrastructure in the city. But just in the last four months, the PMC has spent Rs 250 crore. Besides that, officials said some Rs 300 crore would be needed for future needs. Mohol said the state government should release funds to meet these requirements. The mayor said, “Even after spending so much on health infrastructure, finding a vacant hospital bed remains a major concern. The number of Covid-19 cases is likely to go up drastically by end of August. The state government should provide funds to PMC to ensure medical emergencies are handled well.” Mohol raised his demands during a joint meeting between PMC and district administration officials that was chaired by Pune district guardian minister and deputy chief minister, Ajit Pawar. Data from the civic administration shows that in the last four months, funds were mainly used to procure ventilators, oxygen beds, antigen test kits and PPE packages. Along with health, other municipal departments such as the vehicles department, solid waste management and personnel too have spent a considerable amount of money because of the pandemic.  On an average, the annual health budget of the PMC is around Rs 400 crore. That includes Rs 300 in revenue expenditure and the rest, Rs 100 crore, is for capital projects. “Funds are utilised for two types of works: revenue and capital,” a senior PMC official said. The official added that capital funds are spent on works related to building facilities at PMC-run hospitals, out-patient departments (OPDs) and clinics. Revenue expenditure includes staff salaries, funds for civic welfare schemes like the urban poor health scheme and payment for contractual works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rs-250cr-spent-in-4-months-but-still-not-enough-beds/articleshow/77229631.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
July 29, 2020||Aurangabad||FIR mandatory despite pending inquiry with other dept, HC tells Dhule police||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court has said that it is mandatory on the part of police to register an FIR in case of cognizable offence even if inquiry is pending in the same matter with other government department. While allowing a criminal writ petition by applicant Shriram Devare, a resident of Nagaon talka of Dhule district, the court directed the police to take a criminal action against the people accused from an educational organisation for their involvement in duping the government to the tune of Rs 50 lakh by drawing salary through alleged bogus and fabricated documents for over 12 years. The 40-year-old petitioner was terminated from services as a drawing teacher by the president of an educational group in order to appoint his own daughter in place of the serving teacher, even though the claim of reinstatement of the petitioner was upheld by the school tribunal and endorsed up to the supreme court. The petitioner alleged that the school management had gone to the extent of preparing the forged and fraudulent approval to the services of new recruited individual. It was brought to the notice of the court that the education officer working with the Dhule zilla parishad had called upon the school principal stating that approval to the services of the new teacher was bogus and on the strength of bogus approval, the salary was withdrawn from June 2006 to June 2018, causing loss to the government. The education officer later sought an explanation as to why criminal offence under section 420 of the Indian Penal Code should not be lodged against the school authorities. The petitioner, on August 29, 2018, had lodged one complaint with police. Later, he registered one more complaint on December 12, 2019, pointing out commission of cognizable offences causing loss to the public exchequer to enormous extent. Advocate S.S Deshmukh, appearing on behalf of the petitioner, argued before the court that it is mandatory on the part of police to register an FIR. Referring to the citation of the supreme court in famous Lalita Kumari versus government of Uttar Pradesh case, Deshmukh sought directions against the police officials for registration of crime on the basis of complaints lodged by the petitioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/fir-mandatory-despite-pending-inquiry-with-other-dept-hc-tells-dhule-police/articleshow/77226790.cms||Prasad Joshi
July 29, 2020||Goa||Notices issued for blocking way to disabled person’s house||Panaji: The Goa Human Rights Commission has issued notices to the secretary of the Velsao village panchayat, member secretary Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority, director of social welfare and the block development officer, Mormugao, over blocking of access of a house where a person with disabilities resides. The commission taking suo motu cognisance of news reports on the issue has called for reports to reach it by August 11. The person with disabilities, Domingo Goes, stated that a wall built recently has blocked his traditional access from his house to the main road in Dando, Velsao. Complaints in the matter have also been filed by the disability rights association of Goa with the police and the disabilities commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/notices-issued-for-blocking-way-to-disabled-persons-house/articleshow/77229629.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Kanpur||Kidnapped youth found murdered in Kanpur Dehat, friend arrested||KANPUR: A 25-year-old ‘dharam-kanta’ employee, kidnapped for ransom in Bhognipur police area of Kanpur Dehat on July 15, was found murdered on Tuesday. The police arrested one Subodh Sachan, a close friend of the victim in this connection on Tuesday. Later, accused Subodh, with whom a police team had gone to recover evidences in Bilhapur village, was injured when he tried to escape on Tuesday night and was shot at by the police. The criminal, who sustained bullet wound in his leg, was admitted to hospital in police custody. The body of the deceased, Brijesh Pal, was recovered from a dry well in Kanha Kheda area of the district. A native of Chaura village, the victim was allegedly kidnapped while he had gone to perform duty at a ‘dharam-kanta’ located at Kanpur-Jhansi highway on July 15 night. As per Brijesh’s family members, when Brijesh did not return home on July 16 morning, they went to the ‘dharam-kanta’ to inquire about his whereabouts, but he was found to be missing under mysterious circumstances. They had queried his co-workers but they had feigned ignorance. They thereafter tried to contact Brijesh on his mobile phone, but the call was answered by someone else who sought Rs 20 lakh as ransom from them within five days for his safe release. An audio clip related to the kidnapping of Brijesh had also gone viral on social media on Saturday, wherein the kidnapper could be heard calling the man’s family members and telling them to arrange a ransom of Rs 20 lakh ‘in five days’ otherwise Brijesh would be killed. The kin thereafter informed the Bhognipur police and apprised them about the same. They also told police that the person who had received their call stated that he would call them again after five days. Police said that 11 teams were formed and subsequently investigation was launched following registration of an FIR on July 17. The body was recovered following sustained interrogation of Brijesh’s friend Subodh Sachan from a dry well in Kanha Kheda village under Devrahat police station area of the district on Tuesday evening. “On interrogation, Subodh disclosed that he had killed Brijesh soon after kidnapping him. On the information provided by the kidnapper, the man’s body was recovered,” SP Kanpur Dehat Anurag Vatsa told TOI. According to the police, the body had been dumped in the well around 13 days ago. After the recovery of the body, Brijesh’s kin were asked to identify it. They confirmed that the body was of Brijesh. Subodh hatched the plan to kidnap Brijesh to clear his debt of Rs 5 lakh that he had taken against the purchase of two trucks. According to the plan, he offered Brijesh a soft drink laced with sedatives at the ‘dharam-kanta’. “When he was knocked out of senses, Subodh kidnapped him and later strangled him to death in his car. When Brijesh’s family members made a call on his phone, the kidnapper (Subodh) demanded a ransom of Rs 20 lakh, but his call details and suspicious conduct landed him in police custody,” the SP said. The accused Subodh has been arrested under Section 364 of IPC and is being interrogated. Police were in the process of slapping murder charge against him.  This is the fourth incident of kidnapping in the state in the recent times and the third incident wherein the kidnappers have killed the abducted person. Earlier, a 28-year-old lab technician, Sanjeet Yadav, was kidnapped and killed. The police had also got the family to pay the ransom but failed to retrieve the money. Also, in this case, the police till date have failed to recover the victim’s body. Similarly, a 14-year-old boy was kidnapped for ransom in the Pipraich area of Gorakhpur district. He was killed by the abductors who demanded Rs 1 crore ransom from his family. Another case of kidnapping took place in Gonda where the eight-year-old son of a ‘gutka’ baron was kidnapped last week. The police were, however, able to recover the boy and arrest the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kidnapped-youth-found-murdered-in-kanpur-dehat-friend-arrested/articleshow/77229626.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Teenager dies in road accident||MANGALURU: A teenager was killed after the two-wheeler he was riding collided with a goods autorickshaw near Manjanady around 2.15 pm on Tuesday. The victim Mohammed Rameez,19, was a resident of Taudogoli, and worked as a daily wage labourer. He was going towards Manjanady and collided with the goods autorickshaw which was coming from the opposite direction. Police said that he was immediately shifted to a hospital, but died after a few hours, after he failed to respond to treatment. A case has been registered at the Mangaluru South police station. Malpe police station sanitised As a gesture of appreciation for the immense service being renderd by the police department, Swacham Cleaning Services, Udupi, cleaned up and sanitised the Malpe police station on Tuesday. The initiative was organised in collaboration with Rotary Club, Kallianpur unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/teenager-dies-in-road-accident/articleshow/77226794.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Kochi||Ayurshield clinics a hit as people look for preventive solutions||Kochi: Fear of contracting Covid-19 has made a lot of people look for disease prevention remedies, especially something that boosts one’s immune system. Knowing their need, private ayurveda practitioners and hospitals in the state have been setting up ayurshield immunity clinics, which are now turning out to be the most-sought after place for boosting immunity. Doctors say there is a positive approach to general health as people are beginning to look at the need to stay healthy. “The approach that ‘we will deal with illness when it happens’ has changed to ‘what can I do to stay in good health’?” said Dr Sadath Dinakar, state secretary, ayurveda medical association of India (AMAI). He said AMAI, which has been reviewing the calls and visits of patients, has found that there is a unusual panic among people when they show minor symptoms of cold and cough. “It is good that they are alert. Most calls are not for treatment. We get more calls not from our regular patients but new people,” he added. AMAI doctors found that around 80% of the calls were about disturbed daily habits. “Most people sleep late and wake up late. Eventually, the breakfast, lunch and dinner get late. There is no walking in the morning etc., Taking these factors into account, doctors suggest solutions like home exercises, yoga, light and timely dinner and regular sleep time,” he said. “There are a lot of people who complain of anxiety attacks. I have had cases where patients were rushed to hospital suspecting cardiac condition but it turned out to be severe gastric and indigestion due to lack of sleep, exercise and tension,” said Dr Devidas V, a senior ayurveda physician. People call and ask for ingredients available at home which could be used to boost immunity. Several hospitals are also using the occasion to come out with products based on the guidelines issued by Ayush ministry. “We get calls from the Gulf seeking preventive medicines. There have been calls from patients who have recovered from Covid-19 and want to ensure immunity against a second attack,” said Dr Madhu, Aryavaidyshala Kottakkal. With both the Centre and state actively promoting ayurveda medicines through the ayur raksha programme, a lot of metabolism boosters are being introduced in the market after Ayush clearance. Around 180 members of ayurveda hospitals management association (AHMA) have set up ayurshield immunity clinics which are functioning twice a week to reach out to patients. “Based on doctor availability, the dates are fixed and informed to public,” said Dr C S Krishnakumar, secretary, AHMA-Kerala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ayurshield-clinics-a-hit-as-people-look-for-preventive-solutions/articleshow/77226768.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
July 29, 2020||Aurangabad||4 more dists added to NIELIT programme for sr citizens||Aurangabad: The National Institute of Electronics and Information Technology (NIELIT), Aurangabad, which has introduced a free online programme for the empowerment of senior citizens, has scaled up the initiative for four more districts. NIELIT director Sanjeev Kumar Gupta on Tuesday said that Nashik, Akola, Nandurbar and Thane were the districts where the programme would be offered along with Aurangabad. “Three batches of the programme, with 50 participants each, were run on a trial basis. The initiative evoked excellent feedback. We have now developed our own indigenous video-conferencing system for delivery of this training in a much better and user-friendly manner,” he said. He said the project is being implemented as a social service initiative and districts having more population of SC/ST and economically weaker sections as per Census 2011 are covered, to begin with. Number of free e-learning resources in Marathi and English languages and videos as a part of the course are available on the website http://nielit.gov.in/aurangabad/content/senior-citizen. Sanjay Dhotre, minister of state for electronics & IT, and Jaideep Kumar Mishra, director-general NIELIT, are scheduled to carry out e-inauguration of NIELIT programme on July 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/4-more-dists-added-to-nielit-programme-for-sr-citizens/articleshow/77226805.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Direct to home’ liquor: Man held||Ahmedabad: A man was arrested by police with three liquor bottles on Science City Road. His arrest subsequently led to recovery of 117 more bottles worth Rs 4.50 lakh, including some bottles of imported brands from his home in the Gota area of city. According to an FIR filed with Sola police, a team of cops was patrolling in Gota when they got an input that a man was carrying three liquor bottles in his scooter. Police kept a vigil in the area and nabbed the man identified as Kamlesh Patel on the basis of suspicion. When police checked glove-box of his scooter, they found three liquor bottles. Later, cops questioned him and knew that he had a stock of imported liquor bottles at a rented flat in Veer Savarkar Heights in Gota. Police team went along with him at his rented flat and found 117 more bottles of liquor. Cops booked Patel under charges of bootlegging and began an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/direct-to-home-liquor-man-held/articleshow/77228452.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Gurgaon||Two deaths take Ambala's toll to 14||AMBALA:Two people died of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the toll to 14 and the caseload to 1,372, with 263 active cases. “A 60-year-old man of Ambala Cantt breathed his last at a private hospital in Panchkula. He was a patient of heart disease and diabetes,” said civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh. The second victim was a 72-year-old man of Badshahi Bagh, Ambala City. He died at Maharishi Markandeshwar Institute of Medical Sciences & Research (MMIMSR), Mullana, on Tuesday. “He was a patient of hypertension. The patient was kept on BiPAP (Bilevel Positive Airway Pressure) and his condition was critical. He was referred to Mullana hospital from Ambala on Sunday morning after he tested positive,” Singh said. As many as 38 people, including two police officials, tested positive on Tuesday. Thirteen of them were from Ambala city, nine each from Ambala Cantt and Chourmastpur, six from Mullana and one from Shahzadpur. A total of 43 patients were discharged, pushing the recovery count to 1,095. Singh said, “So far, we have collected 34,351 samples in Ambala district, which is 28,034 samples per 10 lakh population”, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/two-deaths-take-ambala-toll-to-14/articleshow/77229633.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Faridabad||Death toll crosses 400 in Haryana, 749 infected||CHANDIGARH: Haryana’s Covid-19 death count rose to 406 as nine people succumbed to the virus in the state on Tuesday. The state got 749 fresh cases, with which the total number of infections rose to 32,876. Of them, 25,758 people have been discharged after treatment, including 712 people who recovered during the day. The state’s recovery rate is now 78.35%. This has taken the doubling rate to 24 days. There are 6,712 patients still under treament, and 144 of them are stated to be in a critical condition. Faridabad got 188 new patients, and its overall total rose to 8,097. The district got four more deaths, which took its death toll to 127. The district has 1,614 active patients. Also, 139 people were discharged in the district, with which the number of recoveries increased to 6,356. Gurugram continued to lead the state tally as 101 new patients took the district total to 8,821. Also, with 121 patients getting discharged, its number of recoveries rose to 7,680. One new death took the district total to 121. Two deaths were reported in Ambala, and one each in Panchkula and Jhajjar Rewari got the third highest numberof cases, 59, taking the total to 1,571. A total of 42 new cases were reported in Panipat, 41 in Rohtak, 38 each in Ambala, Palwal and Yamuanagar, 28 in Kurukshettra, 27 in Faridabad, 23 in Sonipat, 17 each in Jind and Fatehabad, 15 in Sirsa, 14 in Panchkula, 10 in Jhajjar, nine in Mahindergarh, eight in Kaithal, four in Nuh, and three in Bhiwani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/death-toll-crosses-400-in-haryana-749-infected/articleshow/77237668.cms||Manvir Saini
July 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Death toll crosses 400 in Haryana, 749 infected||CHANDIGARH: Haryana’s Covid-19 death count rose to 406 as nine people succumbed to the virus in the state on Tuesday. The state got 749 fresh cases, with which the total number of infections rose to 32,876. Of them, 25,758 people have been discharged after treatment, including 712 people who recovered during the day. The state’s recovery rate is now 78.35%. This has taken the doubling rate to 24 days. There are 6,712 patients still under treament, and 144 of them are stated to be in a critical condition. Faridabad got 188 new patients, and its overall total rose to 8,097. The district got four more deaths, which took its death toll to 127. The district has 1,614 active patients. Also, 139 people were discharged in the district, with which the number of recoveries increased to 6,356. Gurugram continued to lead the state tally as 101 new patients took the district total to 8,821. Also, with 121 patients getting discharged, its number of recoveries rose to 7,680. One new death took the district total to 121. Two deaths were reported in Ambala, and one each in Panchkula and Jhajjar Rewari got the third highest numberof cases, 59, taking the total to 1,571. A total of 42 new cases were reported in Panipat, 41 in Rohtak, 38 each in Ambala, Palwal and Yamuanagar, 28 in Kurukshettra, 27 in Faridabad, 23 in Sonipat, 17 each in Jind and Fatehabad, 15 in Sirsa, 14 in Panchkula, 10 in Jhajjar, nine in Mahindergarh, eight in Kaithal, four in Nuh, and three in Bhiwani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/death-toll-crosses-400-in-haryana-749-infected/articleshow/77229628.cms||Manvir Saini
July 29, 2020||Surat||Duo steals machines but get theft ‘embroidery’ wrong||Surat: He designed the pattern well, but got the embroidery wrong as the colours of his theft soon caught the eye of law. Varachha police detained an embroidery unit owner, Akash Kushwaha, 21, a resident of A K Road, who along with an accomplice, Ramji Bhatiya, 32, a resident of Godadara, stole two textile embroidery machines worth Rs 5 lakh from an embroidery unit that was closed due to lockdown. Kushwaha had planned the theft, while Bhatiya helped him arrange the crane to steal the two multi-head embroidery machines approximately 27x9 feet long and weighing more than two tonnes each from an industrial society in Varachha on Monday. Earlier, police had booked an offence against some unidentified persons on charges of trespass, house break-in, and theft on basis of a complaint lodged by Shailesh Hirani, a resident of Katargam. In his complaint, Hirani claimed that two embroidery machines were stolen from the unit of his brother in-law, Janak Vekariya. Vekariya had purchased the two second-hand machines worth Rs 5 lakh a few months ago and had started the unit in January. However, soon the lockdown happened and Vekariya was forced to close the unit. He then went to his native village in Amreli. Meanwhile, he received a call on Monday from a neighbouring unit owner asking if he shifted had the machines. Vekariya was surprised and immediately asked Hirani to check. Hirani rushed to the spot and found that the two machines were missing from the unit. The thieves broke through the wall to steal the machines! During investigation locals informed police that the burglars had come with a truck, a crane and some labourers to bring down the machines from the building. Police later identified the crane and its owner. However, he informed the police that he was told by the accused that it was his unit and he wanted to shift the machines to another location. “The accused shifted the stolen machines to his embroidery unit in Patel Nagar, which has remained closed after he sold off the machines a few months ago,” said a police officer. During the past few days, accused Kushwaha often paid visits to a friend in a neighbouring unit and had noticed the closed unit. He did a recce and also verified that nobody visits the unit often and planned the theft. The duo will be tested for Covid-19 and if found negative, they will be arrested. Police have also recovered the two stolen machines from the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/duo-steals-machines-but-get-theft-embroidery-wrong/articleshow/77226848.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Allahabad||AU announces tentative dates of entrance exams||Prayagraj: The authorities of Allahabad University have announced the tentative dates of entrance tests for undergraduate and postgraduate courses of the academic session 2020-21. The entrance tests for BSc (Maths), BSc (Biology), BCom, and BSc (home science) will be held on September 21, and those for BA, BFA, BPA and BA-LLB will be held on September 22. For LLB (three years), the entrance test will be conducted on September 28 and that for postgraduate courses, LLM and MCom will be held on September 29. “On September 30, we have proposed to conduct the entrance tests for PG professional courses which will be held through online mode only. whereas, entrance test for all other courses, the tests will be held, both through online and offline modes,” said director of admissions, Prof Prashant Agarwal. However, the university authorities have clarified that these are just tentative dates and the entrance tests would be conducted only if the situation with regard to the Covid-19 pandemic improves and the clearance is given by the MHRD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-announces-tentative-dates-of-entrance-exams/articleshow/77226840.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||CWCs of 12 districts get extension till Dec||Ahmedabad: The state department of social justice & empowerment (SJ&E) extended the tenure of chairperson and four appointed members of Child Welfare Committee (CWC) in 12 districts of the state up to December 31, 2020. Tenure of the committees was over in Ahmedabad, Anand, Vadodara, Banaskantha, Gandhinagar, Patan, Surat, Junagadh, Sabarkantha, Narmada, Bhavnagar and Amreli districts on March 26 this year. The committees, formed for implementation of the Juvenile Justice (Care & Protection of Children) Act, 2015, have fixed term of three years. The re-constitution of committees could not take place due to Covid-19 pandemic and the tenure was extended up to May 31. However, even after the stipulated time, the new committees could not be formed. TOI in an article on July 19 had highlighted how the absence of CWCs was delaying child welfare activities including looking after the children found from the streets or public places. The matters were referred to the respective district collectors or district social defence officer. TOI had cited two instances of delay in handing over a girl to her parents from Rajasthan and sending a child found from the city to an observation home. Manoj Agarwal, principal secretary (social justice & empowerment), had said that the committees would be formed very shortly. ‘As the formation of CWC is underway, in the best interest of the children, in abovementioned 12 districts the tenure of appointed chairperson and four members is extended up to December 31, 2020 in the special case,’ read a notification dated July 24 signed by J V Desai, deputy secretary of the department of SJ&E. City and state-based NGOs working in child rights lauded the move and said that it would hopefully expedite the processes and reduction in pending issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cwcs-of-12-districts-get-extension-till-dec/articleshow/77228467.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Madurai||HC seeks govt reply on ways to renew membership of workers||Madurai: The Madras high court on Tuesday directed the state government to file an additional counter with regard to the modes and methods available for construction workers to renew their membership in the construction workers welfare board.The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by P Ponkumar, president of the Thamizhaga Kattida Thozhilalar Mathiya Sangam based at Madurai. The petitioner sought the state government to provide Covid-19 financial aid to all registered unorganised sector workers including construction workers irrespective of the renewal of membership.During the previous hearing, the court had sought a response from the secretary of the welfare board with regard to queries: Number of registered workers on their roll, number of workers who have renewed their membership, number of members who have not renewed their membership and number of construction workers who have renewed their membership through online mode.The additional advocate general K Chellapandian submitted that as per the counter affidavit of secretary of the welfare board, there are a total of 18,20,674 people registered under the board. He submitted that 12,13,882 people have renewed their membership and 6,06,792 have not. Members who have not renewed their membership could also renew by sending the application to the assistant commissioner of labour of the concerned district or through e-mail.Senior counsel P Wilson appearing for the petitioner submitted though the GO passed by the government says that Covid-19 financial aid and dry rations would be given to the registered workers, the counter affidavit says that those who have not renewed their membership would not be eligible to avail the benefit.He submitted that members who have not renewed their membership could be allowed to renew and Covid-19 aid could be extended to them. He further submitted that Rs 3,000 crore which lies in the deposit of the board could be used for this purpose.Taking cognizance of the submissions, a division bench of justice M Sathyanarayanan and justice P Rajamanickam observed that the secretary of the welfare board has not responded to the query on number of construction workers who have renewed their membership through online mode. Hence, they directed the state government to file an additional affidavit responding to this query.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-govt-reply-on-ways-to-renew-membership-of-workers/articleshow/77230975.cms||Kaushik Kannan
July 29, 2020||Nagpur||Mundhe warns of raising fine upto Rs25k for encroachments on footpaths, roads||Nagpur: Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on Tuesday inspected shops in various markets under the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC)’s Gandhibagh-Mahal zone and witnessed encroachments on large scale. He warned of increasing fine up to Rs25,000 from the existing Rs5,000-Rs10,000. Mundhe started inspection of shops on Central Avenue to see shopkeepers’s displayed or stored materials on footpaths. Then, he inspected Chitar Oli where idols where displayed on roads. The same scenario was witnessed at Itwari, Golibar chowk and other areas. He was accompanied by the NMC’s nuisance detection squad and team of enforcement department. He ensured spot fine of Rs5,000-Rs 10,000 on many shops. Mundhe also interacted with shopkeepers and warned of further action in case violations were continued. The team of NMC enforcement department also seized materials which were displayed on footpaths and roads when shopkeepers refused to pay the fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mundhe-warns-of-raising-fine-upto-rs25k-for-encroachments-on-footpaths-roads/articleshow/77229639.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Cops bust sex racket in Burail, 5 held||CHANDIGARH: The police raided a hotel in Burail and claimed to have busted a sex racket by arresting five people, including a woman, on Monday night. The police also rounded up three women indulged in the flesh trade, who were later sent to a shelter home. On information, Sector 34 police sent decoy customers to the hotel around 11 pm. As the deal was finalised between the decoy customer and the hotel staff, Sector 34 team raided the hotel and arrested the hotel manager, owner and three persons, including a woman. After searching the rooms of the hotel, the police also nabbed three other women. The police brought all the accused to Sector 34 police station and later sent three women to shelter home. However, the police booked five persons, including a woman, under various sections of the Immoral Trafficking Act. The police produced all the accused before a local court on Tuesday, which sent them in 14-day judicial custody. On July 25, Sector 36 police raided a hotel at Kajheri village and arrested five persons and rounded up 10 women for indulging in the flesh trade. Later on Synday, the police department marked a departmental inquiry against two traffic cops and transferred three policemen of Sector 36 police station to police lines in Sector 26 for negligence. Assistant sub-inspector Balwinder Singh and constable Ashok Kumar will face the probe for roaming around near the hotel in Sector 52, where a sex racket was busted by Neha Yadav, ASP, south division, on Saturday night. An action was taken against the head constable, Pawan Kumar, constable Kavit and Sector 61 police post Brijesh for failing to garner information about the sex racket that was being operated in the hotel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cops-bust-sex-racket-in-burail-5-held/articleshow/77229635.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Pune||Epidemiologists call for further testing boost to check spread of Covid-19||PUNE: Epidemiologists have stressed on increased testing to keep pace with the rising cases in Pune district and bring down the region’s weekly positivity rate from the prevailing 27% to below 10%. A high positivity rate is indicative of higher infection in the community, a member of the task force in the district said, adding that testing has gone up from 5,000 tests daily till last fortnight to over 7,000 tests per day now in the district. City-based epidemiologist R Jotkar told TOI that the state should focus on district-wise weekly and cumulative test positivity rate. “The enhancement in testing volume is required till the test positivity rate comes down below 10%. For this, optimum utilization of testing capacity of both public and private laboratories and use of antigen tests would play a vital role. Contact tracing and assessing oxygen saturation at field-level of high-risk individuals would help prioritize the testing and hospitalization,” Jotkar said. Giridhar Babu, senior epidemiologist, Lifecourse Epidemiology Unit, Indian Institute of Public Health, said by increasing testing, the denominator of test positivity increases, which eventually brings down the total positivity rate. “It also helps in identifying people requiring specialised medical care, thereby, reducing the overall mortality,” he said. A bureaucrat, who did not wish to be named, questioned the basis on which epidemiologists were quoting the high positivity rate. He, however, conceded that community transmission was happening in certain pockets, which made it all the more important to ramp up testing. Another expert who did not want to be named added that a high positivity rate means limited testing capacity — meaning only those most likely to be Covid-19 positive are getting screened and a large number of milder cases remaining undetected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/epidemiologists-call-for-further-testing-boost-to-check-spread/articleshow/77229636.cms||Nisha Nambiar
July 29, 2020||Trichy||BDU staff want teachers’ hiring put off||Trichy: Bharathidasan University Staff Welfare Association has urged the university administration to regulate expenses and focus on generating funds as its available funds may last only till the year end which may even affect disbursal of salary to staff. It said the university must postpone the direct recruitment of 54 regular faculty members as it would invite further expenses. “There isn’t any revenue coming to the university, but spending is continuing,” said associations ecretary S Muruganandam. “The university has exhausted its general fund and now the corpus fund is used to disburse salary to staff. The corpus fund has come down to less than Rs 100 crore from over Rs 200 crore two years ago. It may last only till end of the year,” he added. There was huge spending towards NAAC preparation in 2018 though the university secured A+ grade in April last year, said a finance department source. A purchase committee needs to be constituted to purchase material at competitive cost for developmental works. Instead, the university has been doing direct procurement without following procedures. “We have now sought constitution of a committee to inspect the spending for developmental work,” said the association. “The block of grant of Rs 5 crore from the state government in March has returned. Given the financial burden to the state government because of Covid-19, the funds are unlikely to come any time soon,” said Muruganandam. However, BDU registrar G Gopinath told TOI that the university is in comfortable zone in terms of its finances though it is not as good as it was a few years ago. The university runs 10 constituent colleges and there is huge spending towards their 700-odd staff. However, the state government will reimburse the money spent on four colleges that it took over last year. “We get periodic block grants from the state government and Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA). We are also looking for other avenues. Presently, there are no classes and we have no idea as to how long it will go on,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-staff-want-teachers-hiring-put-off/articleshow/77230459.cms||Sampath Kumar
July 29, 2020||Mangaluru||DC Sindhu threatened after issuing warning to cattle vigilantes||Mangaluru: Hours before her transfer, a tweet from Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh caused her to receive a death threat from cow vigilantes. Police said they are conducting an investigation against the person who threatened the deputy commissioner on a WhatsApp group named ‘Ram Sena Abhimani’. The screenshots of the conversation on the WhatsApp group have gone viral on social media. The death threat comes after Sindhu tweeted on the official twitter handle: @DKDCOFFICIAL @DCDK9 which stated that some miscreants are spreading confusion about cattle transportation on social media. Whoever comes across such activities must inform police and not lend ears to rumours, she had stated. On Monday, during a meeting, Sindhu instructed officials across the district to distribute handbills at the panchayat level to educate people on rules to be followed by individuals while selling and transporting cattle. She also pointed out that the animal husbandry department, district veterinary doctor and officials above them can give permission to transport cattle. She also instructed officials to act stringently against illegal transportation of animals ahead of Bakrid. She warned that those who take the law into their hands by attacking cattle transporters will be dealt with an iron hand. On the social media threat, Sindhu said that she has not lodged any complaint, but that the police are following up on what is available in the public domain. Laxmi Ganesh, DCP (crime and traffic), Mangaluru city police, confirmed about an independent investigation taking place regarding the threat received by the deputy commissioner. “The DC has not approached us to file a complaint, however, we are investigating the issue, and the miscreant will be booked soon,” he said. The Karnataka unit of Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) has condemned the incident. The SDPI alleged that there was a nexus between the Sangh Parivar and police, which was resulting in attacks on cattle transporters in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dc-sindhu-threatened-after-issuing-warning-to-cattle-vigilantes/articleshow/77226843.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Aurangabad||SCR land recorded as pvt property, 4 booked||Aurangabad: Aurangabad city police have booked a man and senior officials of the land record office on the charges of cheating and criminal conspiracy, after the suspect officials allegedly transferred 10 acres of railway-owned prime land, worth nearly Rs100 crore, in the name of a private person. The alleged cheating and forgery was committed sometime between 2012 and 2019. City Chowk police inspector Sambhaji Pawar citing the official records, said the land originally belonged to the Nizam railways before it was taken over by Indian Railways. In the 1970s, after the formation of South Central Railways, the land was transferred to its name and it remained so till 2012. Pawar said, “The preliminary probe has revealed there is a larger conspiracy in illegally transferring central government-owned prime land and getting it registered in the name of a private person.” The officer said though there have been several incidents of fraudulently transferring private and administration-owned class II lands, but this is a rare instance of a central government land allegedly getting targeted by the builders’ lobby. The matter came to the notice of railway authorities in 2018, following which the incident was taken on record. This eventually led to the private person coming forward with documents claiming to be the owner of the land. When the records with the land record office were checked, it was found that the official registers were forged. SCR's senior sectional engineer Harishkumar Tamarkar, in his complaint said that sometime between August 2012 and January 2019, the land, situated in CTS number 20295, was registered in the name of a private person by the then officials of the land record office. Due to the alleged forgery, a PR card of new CTS number 20295/A/1 was made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/scr-land-recorded-as-pvt-property-4-booked/articleshow/77226821.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 29, 2020||Madurai||Farmer’s death: Police directed to submit status, autopsy reports||Madurai: The Tenkasi district police have been directed to submit a status report, postmortem report and videograph of postmortem in a sealed cover before the Madras high court on Wednesday, in connection with the death of a man who was tortured by forest officials. The court was hearing a petition filed by Palammal of Vaagaikulam, who sought a CB-CID probe into the custodial death of her husband, Anaikkarai Muthu, 70. Muthu was picked up by the forest department officials for inquiry as he had allegedly electrified his fence to protect the crops from wild animals. The petitioner’s counsel submitted that the postmortem was performed on July 23 night by violating the norms. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/farmers-death-police-directed-to-submit-status-autopsy-reports/articleshow/77230980.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Punjab govt should act on PSERC order on fixed charges’||LUDHIANA: Resentment among businessmen against Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) and Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) is brewing due to the recent order by the PSERC, asking to pay fixed charges to the PSPCL on industrial meters for March 23 till May 23, which were earlier waived by the state government on account of lockdown. The PSPCL had filed an appeal with the PSERC against waiving he fixed charges and the latter in its order on July 17 had ruled in favour of the PSPCL and said that businessmen should pay these in six instalments from September 2020. According to businessmen, it’s been almost two weeks that the PSERC gave this order but the state government had still not taken any notice of this. According to Jaswinder Thukral, president of Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers Association, “It’s very unfortunate that the PSERC has taken anti-industry stand once again and moreover, turned down the decision of the state government, which was taken by chief minister. If the PSERC thinks that the PSPCL is in losses and must be supported, then it should also not forget that the PSPCL is itself responsible for its plight due to its wrong policies and it’s illogical to punish innocent businessmen and extort fixed charges from them even for a period which we didn’t even open our factories. The state government must take notice of this blunder being done by the PSERC and immediately order commission to cancel it’s order.” Vinod Thapar, chairman of Knitwear Club, said, “Slapping of fixed charges on industrialists for two months is very unfortunate and it will put huge load on us. Already the industry is in a spot due to rising losses and how will we be able to arrange money for paying these fixed charges. What is even worse is that the state government is silent even after the PSERC overturned its decision. But businessmen will not sit silent and we will protest if this decision is not taken back.” According to Harish Kairpal, finance secretary of Knitwear Club, “Fixed charges for two months were waived by the state government on account of losses incurred during lockdown by us, but unfortunately the PSERC has ruled out this decision. We have been asked to pay these in six month instalments which is pointless as we are already under huge financial burden due to rising losses and fall in sales. We urge the state government to take notice of this immediately and ask the PSERC to take back its decision.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/state-govt-should-act-on-pserc-order-on-fixed-charges/articleshow/77228457.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Goa||BJP says opposition agreed to one-day session, Digambar Kamat calls it ‘lies’||PANAJI: A day after an action-packed one-day assembly session, the ruling and opposition have gotten into a war of words. Condemning the behaviour of the opposition in the House on Monday, BJP claimed that they had unanimously agreed to the single-day session in view of Covid. The opposition rubbished the claim on Tuesday and demanded that the government produce the minutes of the business advisory committee meeting as proof. Former Panaji MLA Sidharth Kuncalienkar told reporters, “After the question hour, the opposition created an unruly scene. It was ‘goondagardi’ and they distrusted the functioning of the temple of democracy. BJP condemns this act.” Kuncalienkar said an effort was being made by Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai and the opposition to mislead the House. “Such things should not happen in the assembly,” he said. Kuncalienkar added that after one MLA was found positive, speaker Rajesh Patnekar had called an all-party meeting on July 3. “At the meeting, everyone was of the unanimous opinion that there should be a one-day session because there are a lot of senior members in the House. Leader of opposition Digambar Kamat who himself was chief minister for five years gave a statement that we have unanimously decided to have a one-day session,” Kuncalienkar said. He also said that the opposition did not give a proper adjournment notice which was rejected by the speaker. Reacting to BJP, the opposition lashed out and sought the minutes of the meeting. “Will @BJP4Goa produce Minutes of All Party Meeting with signatures of Opposition MLA’s substantiating their claim that Opposition had unanimously agreed for one day session of Goa Legislative Assembly? Our acceptance was CONDITIONAL as clearly mentioned in my Dissent Letter to BAC,” Kamat tweeted. Kamat said the blatant lies of BJP alleging that the opposition had unanimously accepted the one-day session are out of frustration and failure of the government in handling the Covid pandemic and its inefficiency in reviving the economy of Goa. “Spokesmen of @BJP4Goa are like Goebbels. Repeating a lie won’t make it the truth, not at least in #Goa ! Opposition agreed on passing vote on account never budget! But if the ministers of @GovtofGoa are capable of answering our questions let’s have a virtual assembly in exile! Ok?” Sardesai tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-says-oppn-agreed-to-1-day-session-kamat-calls-it-lies/articleshow/77229634.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Covid-19 positive man booked for fleeing covid care centre||Aurangabad: Waluj police station have registered an offence against a 45-year old man for fleeing from the Covid Care Centre where he was undergoing treatment. Waluj’s village development officer Subhash Labhade, in his complaint, stated that the man was lodged at Garware community centre-based covid care facility and he tested positive for the contagion on July 24. On learning about the same, he left the centre without anyone’s knowledge. Later, the authorities reached out to his house only to find it locked and his cell phone switched off. Based on the VDO’s complaint, the Covid-19 positive man was been booked under IPC section 188 for disobeying orders duly promulgated by the authorities, section 269 for negligently act likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life, section 270 for malignant act likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/covid-19-positive-man-booked-for-fleeing-covid-care-centre/articleshow/77226851.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 29, 2020||Kochi||‘Pathila curry can boost immunity’||Kochi: The month Karkkadakam, according to ayurveda practitioners, plays a vital role in boosting one’s immunity. Since people are staying at home and not exposed to any kind of infections, improvements in the diet can help boost immunity. Ayurveda stresses on the importance of detoxifying the body’s impurities during this season. However, with no panchakarma or wellness treatments in hospitals, doctors say one of the main ways to remove impurities in the body even while staying healthy is through having ‘karkkadaka kanji’. “If people can’t make or get the karkkadaka kanji, they can make pathila curry by adding 10 different types of leafy vegetables in their diet,” said Dr Sharmad Khan, former secretary, Kerala state government ayurveda medical officers association. The entire panchakarma process is not about just getting medicated oil massages, different kizhi treatments and steam bath. This loosens the impurities and fats from the body. But it has to be purged out through different processes which includes cleansing the stomach. The concept in ayurveda is that summer drains you. “This will make you vulnerable to all kinds of fevers during monsoon. So you cleanse your body and eat nutritional food to boost immunity,” he said. “Try to drink dried ginger black coffee,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pathila-curry-can-boost-immunity/articleshow/77226811.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
July 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Marathwada’s Covid-19 count reaches 3,077||Aurangabad: Covid-19 outbreak has been gradually spreading in different parts of Marathwada with the total number of active cases in the region, except Aurangabad, surging to 3,077 by Monday night. While Aurangabad continues to top the Covid chart in terms of causalities in Marathwada, Latur has reached the second spot with 73 deaths, followed by Jalna (68), Nanded (52), Osmanabad (34), Parbhani (18), Beed (15) and Hingoli (10), an official data released by the state health department said. Excluding Aurangabad, remaining seven districts of Marathwada region have registered a total of 3,077 active Covid cases by Monday night. Jalna, which is the home district of Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope, is at the second spot in the region in terms of Covid-19 cases with total 785 active cases, followed by Nanded (675), Latur (691), Beed (327), Parbhani (249), Osmanabad (208) and Hingoli (142). The region as a whole, excluding Aurangabad, has reported total 6,757 confirmed cases of Covid-19 so far, of which 3,409 have successfully defeated the disease. Aurangabad divisional commissioner Sunil Kendrekar has ordered a ‘3T’ approach to battle the current pandemic. “We have been asked to carry out more testing, effective contract tracing of persons testing positive and good treatment of positive patients as per official protocol,” a senior health department official from Nanded said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/marathwadas-covid-19-count-reaches-3077/articleshow/77226881.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Woman gets threat from son’s partner||Ahmedabad: A 54-year-old woman on Monday filed a complaint at Vastrapur police station alleging that she was threatened by her unemployed son’s live-in partner, because she had stopped giving him financial help and had blocked both their numbers. Meeta Rathod, a resident of Satkar Apartments in Thaltej, stated that her son Maulik was living with her till earlier this month, when he went to live with his girlfriend Priya Chauhan, who is from Vadodara. She stated that Maulik had taken money from her for a business and to go to Dubai, but couldn’t succeed. She said Maulik got engaged to Chauhan in July 2018. Maulik also arranged for Chauhan to stay in Ahmedabad at a friend’s house. When Meeta learned of this, she scolded him and blocked both their numbers. They had tried calling her recently, but in vain. Chauhan then somehow got Meeta’ friend’s number, on which she called her and abused and threatened her. Meeta approached Vastrapur police and filed a complaint of intimidation against Chauhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-gets-threat-from-sons-partner/articleshow/77228504.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Madurai||Ex-MLA Nanjil A Murugesan booked under Pocso on rape charge, on the run||KANYAKUMARI: Former Nagercoil MLA Nanjil A Murugesan, 53, who was expelled from the AIADMK’s primary membership on Monday, has been booked under various sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act on charges of raping a 15-year-old girl for more than two years. Four others – the girl’s mother who pushed the girl into flesh trade for her gains – and three other men who raped her have been arrested. They were booked under Sections 3(a) (penetrative sexual assault with sexual organ), 4 (punishment for penetrative sexual assault), 7 (sexual assault by touching vital organs but not penetrative), 8 (punishment for sexual assault), 11(3) (shows any object to a child in any form or media for pornographic purposes), 12 (punishment for sexual harassment) and 17 (punishment for abetment) of Pocso Act. Five special teams have been formed under deputy superintendent of police for the district crime branch to nab the former MLA who is on the run. Four people, Paul, 66, and Ashok Kumar, 43, of Idalakudi, and Karthik, 28, of Kottar besides the girl’s mother have been arrested so far, Kanyakumari district superintendent of police V Badrinarayanan told TOI. Police sources said the girl who has been taken to a children’s home is highly traumatised and is being given counselling through the child welfare committee. A district child protection unit (DCPU) official said the incident came to light only a day ago after the girl who eloped with a 20-year-old man was rescued. A kidnapping case was booked against him since the girl is a minor. She was produced before a magistrate before whom she said in a statement that she was raped by the former MLA and a few others, based on which the court directed the matter to the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) on Monday. On the directions of the CWC, the district child protection officer lodged a complaint with the Nagercoil All Woman Police against Murugesan and others on Monday. Murugesan who was Nagercoil MLA from 2011-16 was expelled from the AIADMK on Monday evening. In a joint statement, party coordinator and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam and joint coordinator and chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said that Nanjil Murugesan has been removed from the basic membership of the party. The statement said the decision was taken due to his acts against the principles and objectives of the party and tarnishing its image. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ex-mla-booked-under-pocso-on-rape-charge-on-the-run/articleshow/77230984.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Jaipur||Maths a hard nut to crack for students||JAIPUR: Mathematics turned out to be a hard nut to crack for students in RBSE Class X examination. As per the data, out of 11,51,858 students who appeared in mathematics examination, 9,84,669 came out with flying colours. This results in 85.48% success rate. This is followed by science which has a pass rate of 90.29%. Sanskrit and Hindi remained the most scoring subjects. In Sanskrit, 97.50% students passed, while in Hindi 96.52% cleared the examination. Students seem to have improved in English subject in which 93.05% passed as compared to last year when 92.18% students were able to clear it. In social science, 93.55% students passed the examination. The board again has not released a merit list which was discontinued two years ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/maths-a-hard-nut-to-crack-for-students/articleshow/77229664.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Bhopal||Education experts, students against open book exam||BHOPAL: Educationists have raised objections to the state government’s decision to conduct open book exams for final year students. They said, the government should ensure that students do not use unfair means to write answers. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday had said final year students and fourth semester of post graduation can appear in open book examination — to protect students from Covid-19 and ensure social distancing. Question papers will be made available to the students of final year graduation and to the students of fourth semester of post graduation on their login ID and prescribed website. In the open book system, the students will be able to write examinations at their home itself. Examinees are required to submit their answer sheets at the collection centres — around thousands of which have been set up. Students will be able to submit their answer sheets either by post or by e-mail. Former vice chancellor, Prof Tarique Zafar said, “How will government ensure that students don’t use unfair means while writing the answers” He added that students should have asked to appear in exam. “Government can wait instead of taking such decisions in a hurry,” he added. Former principal MLB college, Prof GD Singh reacted, “What is the point of an exam, if students are allowed to copy answers from a book. This is unfair to students who have studied all year around for a good score. There is a need for a well thought out strategy.” Students too have raised concern over the open-book-exam patter. “Why should anyone study, when book is available. What is the sudden hurry, when everything is at a standstill due to the pandemic. Open book exam is not really an exam.” The examination results of final year graduation and fourth semester post graduation will be declared by granting 50% weight to marks obtained in previous years and 50% to marks obtained in open book exams. As many as 5.71 lakh students will appear in examinations of final year graduation and fourth semester post graduation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/edu-experts-students-against-open-book-exam/articleshow/77228503.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan government gives exemptions to create ‘Nirogi Rajasthan’||JAIPUR: The state government has granted several exemptions for the development of medical facilities, agro-processing industries, industrial units, warehousing and other structural amenities to create a ‘Nirogi Rajasthan’ by making necessary amendments under Rajasthan Urban Area Building Regulations 2020. Urban development and housing (UDH) minister Shanti Dhariwal gave a nod to expand the permissible built area ratio (BAR) in construction of proposed building for medical facility. For the same, the BAR has been increased to three from two to improve the provision of parking in a building. The UDH official said the warehouse purpose has been divided into two categories, general and agricultural. Lease amount, building map approval fee and land conversion fee will be charged according to industrial use in general warehouse. Relaxation will be provided in the charges which are levied by the urban local bodies, he said. The minister claimed, as promoting agro-based warehouse will generate employment facilities in rural areas, complete exemption will be given in land conversion charges and lease amount in agricultural-based warehouses and godowns. Allotment of land for agricultural based warehouses and godowns will be also done at 50% of the reserved price. It will soon prepare a warehousing policy on the lines of Haryana. As Pink City has turned out to be a central location for many districts and neighbouring states, the representatives from more than 20 companies recently expressed their interest to set up warehouses in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-gives-exemptions-to-create-nirogi-rajasthan/articleshow/77229671.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Chandigarh||All 14 Mohali victims had underlying conditions||MOHALI: The 14 people who have lost their life to Covid-19 were patients of multiple comorbidities and 78% of them were above the age of 52, according to Mohali civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh, trying to underline the virus is less deadlier for healthy individuals. The health department had conducted tests on 16 dead people brought to various hospitals across the district, out of which three had tested positive. Singh said, “The 65-year-old man from Kharar who was the 14th fatality due to Covid-19 was another comorbid patient. He breathed his last while undergoing treatment at PGI, Chandigarh. He was a patient of multiple comorbidities. Earlier, patients with high blood sugar levels, acute hypertension, asthmatic, cancer patients and kidney failure patients have been victims.” He said such patients are vulnerable to the infection as their immunity levels had dropped to a level where the body stops fighting the virus. Out of these 14 patient’s, nine are above the age of 65 years. Singh said one of the patients was 82-year-old while two were relatively young — a 43-year-old anchor of a Punjabi TV news channel and a 42-year-old resident of Preet Colony, Zirakpur. The TV anchor suffered from kidney failure and underwent kidney transplant before testing positive. Singh said the recovery rate in Mohali is quite favourable at 62%. Mohali had recorded only three deaths due to Covid-19 from April 1 till May 8. From June 30, 11 deaths were reported, making it one every 55 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/all-14-mohali-victims-had-underlying-conditions/articleshow/77229638.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
July 29, 2020||Nagpur||67 cases take Amravati Covid count to 1,838||Amravati: With a spike of 67 cases on Tuesday, the district Covid count has reached 1,838. For the second successive day, the district recorded more recoveries than admissions as 60 patients got discharge on Tuesday to take the count of recovered patients to 1,300. This has left 472 patients under treatment, including 15 in Nagpur. Amravati rural reported 12 cases today, five of them coming from Kurha in Teosa tehsil, to take the rural count to 350. Besides Teosa, Chandur Bazar tehsil reported two cases, while Daryapur, Nandgaon Khandeshwar, Warud, Walgaon and Paratwada reported one each Covid patient. In city, hotspot Badnera reported eight new cases to take its count to 162, while Dussera Maiden reported six patients to take its count to 10. Three cases each came from Rajapeth and Masanganj that took their respective count to 11 and 53. Vilasnagar and Krishnarpan Colony on Kathora Road added two cases each to their respective tally to go up to eight and two. Gopalnagar, Amba Gate and Camp posted their 15th case today while Khaparde Bagicha posted its sixth and Yashodanagar its seventh. Sainagar and Itwara Bazar posted their fifth case today while Sanjay Gandhinagar its fourth case. Navsari posted its third case while Amle Layout its second. Deshpande Layout in Teosa Gin here also reported its first two cases. Radiant Hospital, Bhatwadinagar, Asma Colony, Pushpak Colony and Patwa Chowk in Morbag also reported their first Covid case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/67-cases-take-amravati-covid-count-to-1838/articleshow/77229676.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Pune||Covid-19 tally soars past 75,000 in Pune, casualty count nears 1,800||PUNE: The municipal limits of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad recorded almost identical 24-hour Covid tally on Tuesday, pushing the overall caseload in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) to 75,400. While PMC areas added 1,133 cases in the last 24 hours, the PCMC limits added 1,130 and rural as well Cantonment parts recorded 355 new cases. Overall, PMR added 2,618 cases in the last 24 hours. The 24-hour tally for the region was 426 less on Tuesday as compared to Monday’s 3,044. The latest addition had pushed the active cases in PMC limits up to 19,135. As many as 6,567 swab tests, including antigen tests, were conducted in the PMC areas on Tuesday. “As many as 742 patients are at critical stage, of whom 98 are on ventilator support. Besides, 591 patients were discharged on Tuesday after being declared cured,” a civic official said, adding more than 46,000 patients had been discharged in PMR so far. PMR recorded 55 Covid-related fatalities on Tuesday, pushing the death toll up to 1,792. Available data showed that the youngest patient to succumb to the infection was a 32-year-old man from Katraj, while the oldest was a 78-year-old man from Somwar Peth. The other deceased included a 65-year-old man from Hadapsar, a 60-year-old man from Dhankawdi, a 65-year-old man from Hadapsar, a 73-year-old man from Shivajinagar, a 41-year-old woman from the Market Yard area, a 60-year-old woman from Parvati Darshan, a 69-year-old woman from Sahakarnagar, among others. Over 50,000 people have tested positive in the month of July so far in PMR. Resultantly, over 1,800 people have been testing positive on an average in the region this month so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tally-soars-past-75k-in-city-casualty-count-nears-1800/articleshow/77229640.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 29, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: New norm to put pressure on infra in old colonies||JAIPUR: Rules amended to allow construction of multi-storeys up to 18 metre height in residential areas have received mixed reactions from the residents and big developers. As per the new amendments, the state government has approved construction of high-rises in colonies on 500 square metre plot. However, many believe there is still no plan for upgrading the infrastructure of these residential areas. This would affect many existing colonies, including Bapu Nagar, Tilak Nagar, Bani Park, C-Scheme, Vaishali and others, which have bigger plots as providing extra height will allow more construction. The move would create additional pressure on existing facilities in these colonies. Amit Tyagi, resident of Tilak Nagar, says “The court had earlier directed development authorities to identify special areas or zones for multi-storey buildings in the city which will be mentioned in the master plan and zonal development plan. This will block air and view of ground floor houses if a five-storeyed building is erected in neighbourhood,” Town planners are of the opinion that with an expected population of 4.2 million by 2025, the state capital will be among one of the most populated cities of urban agglomerations in the country. Housing this large a population will require construction of about 10 lakh more homes within the city. Since large empty tracts of land are not available within the city, the cost-effective method to overcome housing shortage is allowing controlled development in old colonies. An office-bearer of CREDAI, on the condition of anonymity said, permitting multi-stories in residential colonies without laying infrastructure adversely affects the rights of residents already settled. Moreover, it will also be a revenue loss for the state government which it earned from big developers. “New multi-storey buildings should not be allowed in old residential colonies as basic amenities were developed keeping in view of number of plots and families residing such as parking. Construction affects the rights of residents. But, new guidelines have opened the way in many colonies.” An official at UDH said vertical development is the need of hour to have compact cities saving precious agriculture land being converted for urban use due to horizontal expansion of city. “The policy for encouraging multi-storey buildings in a regulated manner is required. Issues relating to fire-fighting preparedness of high-rises, including width of the road, area of plots, infrastructure facilities light and ventilation would be closely monitored by the development authority for safety of people,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/new-norm-to-put-pressure-on-infra-in-old-colonies/articleshow/77229641.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Work for lowering barrier at Giaspura railway crossing to begin soon||LUDHIANA: After remaining suspended for more than three months following strict lockdown norms, Northern Railway will soon resume the much awaited work of converting the present barriers into a low height ones for checking the flow of traffic which usually tries to cross the tracks even after the barriers are down, risking their lives in the process. At present, three railway tracks fall under the jurisdiction of Giaspura railway crossing. Two trains pass the barrier at high speed, due to which the linemen close the barriers for several minutes on a daily basis. But on the other hand impatient commuters try to cross the track when it is closed by moving under the barriers. Although the present length of the railway barriers is appropriate to stop the road traffic but most of the time two-wheelers try to cross the railway tracks by passing through the space available under the barriers (which is three to four feet) without any fear of law and even become railway accident victims during late night hours when the visibility is low. Moreover, a few days back Railway Protection Force (RPF) had held a meeting with the railway authorities to raise the issue of converting the present height of the barrier into a low height one to ensure the safety of passengers. The railway authorities have also agreed to their demand of quick installation of a low height barrier at the Giaspura railway crossing. Giving information on this, company commander of RPF Anil Kumar said, “We are taking up the matter of installing low height barriers at Giaspura railway crossing to stop commuters from crossing the tracks in an unauthorised manner with their vehicles due to impatience, which sometimes lead to accident.” He further said, “We have given recommendations to the higher authorities of the railways for beginning the work of installing low height barriers in quick time and make its height to 2 feet only so that passerby could not pass under the barrier.” Tarun Kumar, Ludhiana railway station director, said “We are coordinating with the railway security forces and are looking at their suggestion to curb the menace of trespassing at Giaspura railway crossing by commuters and make them follow the railway norms in real sense. We will raise the same matter with higher authorities and wait for their future course of action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/work-for-lowering-barrier-at-giaspura-railway-crossing-to-begin-soon/articleshow/77228499.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
July 29, 2020||Delhi||No Covid death at Delhi's Lok Nayak Hospital for first time in 2 months||NEW DELHI: For the first time in the past two months, Lok Nayak Hospital — Delhi government’s biggest Covid-19 treatment facility — did not report any death due to the disease on Monday. Taking to Twitter on Tuesday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced, “No death in our biggest Covid hospital LNJP yesterday.” Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of the hospital, attributed the feat to “extensive ICU care, plasma bank, top healthcare facilities and dedication of doctors and healthcare workers”. At least one death due to the virus was recorded daily in the past couple of months, but on Monday, there was no fatality, Kumar said. Till Tuesday evening, about 389 (19%) of the hospital’s 2,000 beds were occupied by Covid patients. Of these, 88 were in ICU and two on ventilators, he added. Delhi recorded 1,056 fresh novel coronavirus cases on Tuesday, taking the tally to over 1.3 lakh, while the fatalities jumped to 3,881.The state health department said 28 fatalities were recorded in the past 24 hours. In June, Delhi saw a huge surge in the infection and death rate, which started to come down in July. The AAP government had claimed that a multi-pronged strategy of aggressive testing, home isolation policy and public engagement were the attributing factors for the drop. In its weekly report on Covid status, Delhi government had stated that since the beginning of July, death rate had reduced from 3.1% to 2.9%, showing greater recovery rate. “As on July 26, the positivity rate, average rate of samples testing positive, has steadily fallen to 6%, from 11% in the beginning of the month,” said an official. She added that the active cases had reduced to less than 10% of the total. The official said that bed occupancy in the hospitals had been reducing consistently, and only 2,800 beds were occupied last week. “Low occupancy of beds is reflective of the reducing number of serious patients,” said a senior doctor at Lok Nayak Hospital. Watch Good news! No Covid-19 death at Delhi's Lok Nayak Hospital for first time in 2 months||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-covid-death-at-lok-nayak-for-first-time-in-2-months/articleshow/77229682.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Ludhiana||FICO to hold camps for PPCB clearances||LUDHIANA: Days after state government ordered Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) to relax its norms for industrial units, the Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) has decided to assist the PPCB and organise camps for industrial units to apply and get the mandatory consent of the PPCB without visiting the office of department. Gurmeet Singh Kular, president of FICO, said, “We welcome the decision of the PPCB to extend the validity of existing consents and waiving the requirements of consent for the new industry which had not registered with PPCB to get the consent. FICO had decided that we will assist the factories, specially those located in the mix land use areas, to get the new consents and even get the older ones renewed. The first camp will be organized on August 10 at FICO secretariat, Jaimal Road in Janta Nagar. We urge the interested businessmen to make use of this opportunity and apply for the consent without visiting the PPCB office.” According to Maninder Singh Sachdeva, senior vice president of FICO, “These were the long pending demands of our industry, mainly regarding extension in the validity of consent for operation, authorisation, registration and any other mandatory regulatory clearances. So, in order to show our gratitude towards the PPCB we have decided to assist the department by organising camps for factories to compete all formalities regarding necessary permissions and sanctions.” On July 24, the PPCB extended the validity of consent to establish, operate, authorisation, registration and any other mandatory regulatory clearances up to June 30, 2020. The validity of these clearances was also been further extended up to March 31, 2021, with certain stipulations on submission of application without conduct of any inspection by the PPCB. In order to ensure the participatory regulatory compliance of the environmental regulations, the industries which were operating without the consent of the board have also been given time till December 31. Factory owners of such units can apply to obtain clearances under VDS which they can do so with exemption to deposit the consent fee prior to November 1, 2018 and payment of a one-time notional fee of Rs 5,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/fico-to-hold-camps-for-ppcb-clearances/articleshow/77228463.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Physical edu teachers to get online training||Coimbatore: A total of 300 government schoolteachers from the district would be trained in physical literacy, focusing on sports, from August 3 to August 8, through online sessions. School education department officials say the programme aims to help schoolchildren get access to quality physical education. An official communication from the school education department said the training would be given by the not-for-profit ELMS Sports Foundation. The orientation programme would ‘enhance theoretical and practical application for physical education teachers and physical directors’, it said. “This programme will be for one-and-half-hours daily,” said S Kannappan, director of school education, in the communication. He said all chief educational officers should direct headmasters to instruct physical education teachers and physical directors to participate in the online physical literacy programme. The sessions would start with teachers in Coimbatore and Erode from August 3 to August 8. A total of 300 and 216 teachers would participate from these districts respectively. The sessions would be held for physical education teachers and physical directors from all districts consecutively till October 31. They would be taught key terms of physical education, minor games to engage all children, understanding physical literacy, physical literacy-based curriculum guidelines, human values in physical education and new assessment approaches for physical education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/physical-edu-teachers-to-get-online-training/articleshow/77229681.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: Covid-19 poitive woman dies after futile 2-day search for ICU bed||PUNE: A 65-year-old Covid-19 positive woman died at a private hospital at Chakan, about 40km from here, on Monday after allegedly not getting a ventilator-supported ICU bed for two days. The death comes just six days after the state government issued a standard protocol regarding the management of Covid patients. District collector Naval Kishore Ram told TOI, “We will investigate if there has been any deviation from the standard protocol. If a hospital does not have an ICU bed, it is their responsibility to refer the patient to the nearest hospital where such a bed is available.” The woman, a resident of Kadachiwadi village, about 3km from Chakan, was first taken to a private hospital at Chakan on Saturday morning, her daughter said. “My mother was suffering from breathlessness. After checking her, the hospital told us to shift her to Yeshwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital (YCMH) in Pimpri. We took a prescription and went with my mother to YCMH at 1.30pm, but they said they did not have a ventilator-supported bed,” she said. The family then took the woman to private hospitals at Morwadi and Nigdi, but couldn’t get her admitted as they too did not have ventilator beds. “One private hospital at Wakad demanded a deposit of Rs 50,000 to admit my mother and told us that daily expenses on treatment would be more than Rs 30,000. Since it was too expensive for us, we returned home with my mother,” the daughter said. On Sunday, the family took the woman to the Rural Hospital (RH) Chakan. Madhav Kankawale, head of the hospital, said, “The woman needed ventilator support as her oxygen saturation level was below 60. We checked with YCMH and Aundh Chest Hospital but no ventilator beds were available. We also checked with the dedicated Covid hospital centres at Chakan and Khed but they too did not have beds. We then told the family to approach a private hospital.” The family finally took the woman to a private hospital at Chakan, but she passed away on Monday. Ajay Joshi, block development officer of Khed tehsil, admitted that there were only three ventilator beds in the tehsil to treat critical Covid patients. “We need at least 15-20 such beds. We have appealed to private companies in the Chakan area to use their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds to set up ventilator beds at our dedicated health centres in the tehsil,” he said. YCMH dean Rajendra Wable said, “We admit critical patients from the Pune rural areas at our hospital. But we have only 33 ICU beds functioning at present. Making beds available has become difficult for us. We need ventilator beds at any given time to treat patients who are already admitted here. When patients show improvement in their oxygen saturation levels, we immediately shift them to the Covid care centre at Balewadi.” Wable said, “In this woman’s case, we will be able to comment only after verifying our internal documents. We need at least one day to check our records.” The woman’s daughter said, “My mother’s life could have been saved had she got a ventilator bed in time. Nobody should ever face a plight like ours. The government has done very little for public health infrastructure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-dies-after-kin-search-for-ventilated-icu-bed-for-2-days/articleshow/77229686.cms||Sandip Dighe
July 29, 2020||Allahabad||City records 125 Covid-19 cases, tally reaches 1852||Prayagraj: With 125 fresh novel Covid-19 cases, the Prayagraj district tally hit the mark of 1,852 on Tuesday. The city also recorded one death on Tuesday and the number of Covid-19 patients who succumbed to the disease shot up to 50. Besides, as many as 61 Covid-19 patients recovered and were discharged from hospitals on Tuesday. Nodal officer and additional chief medical officer Dr Rishi Sahai said, “A total of 125 persons tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. The patients were between the ages of 18 and 72 years. Most of the patients admitted on day had contracted the disease after coming in contact with an infected person.” Till now, a total of 979 people have been cured and discharged from Covid hospitals. Meanwhile, the rising number of coronavirus infection cases in Sangam city has set alarm bells ringing in the health department and prompted it to take up an extensive awareness campaign among the masses with an aim to combat the spread of the disease. The tally of Covid cases in the Sangam city has crossed the 1,800 mark, and as a result, Prayagraj district has the highest number of containment zones in the range. In fact, number of positive cases in Prayagraj district is four times more than the neighbouring districts like Pratapgarh and Kaushambi. If the statistics of health department is to be believed, Prayagraj district has a total of 1,852 cases by Tuesday whereas 979 patients have been cured and discharged from the hospitals. While Pratapgarh district has a total of 293 cases by Monday evening and 158 of them have been cured and discharged, Kaushambi has a total of 331 cases and 260 of them have been cured and discharged. A senior health official pointed out, “ The testing facilities have been increased in both rural and urban pockets and as a result, more cases were surfacing.” He added, “Now, the Covid-19 testing facilities are available at all community health centres of the district. We are more focusing on collecting samples of primary and secondary contacts of Covid patients to contain the spread of the disease,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/city-records-125-covid-19-cases-tally-reaches-1852/articleshow/77226915.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Gym owners sell equipment in protest||LUDHIANA: Expressing anger for not being given permission to open gyms and local body building centres, members of several body building associations and gym owners gathered on a city road on Tuesday afternoon to stage a protest against the central government for not giving them permission to open their businesses. They have been raising the issue that if the state government couldn’t fulfil their demand of allowing them to open their gyms and body building centres, then it would be impossible for all of them to manage their household expenses because these are the only sources of their income. One of the members of a body building association Amarjot Singh said, “After the imposition of lockdown, gyms and body building centres were closed down by the home ministry but now the government has given relaxation to each and every sector, then why is the government not giving permission to gym owners for re-opening their business, which is totally unfair because a large number of youth are involved in this business for fulfilling their basic needs.” “We are struggling to manage the daily expenses of our families as for the past few months we didn’t earn even a single penny for managing all kinds of household expenses,” he further said. Another member of the same association Backy said,“After getting fed up with the none-cooperative behaviour of the government, all body builders took to the road for selling gym equipment and indulged in related activities in protest against the ruling government for not listening to our long pending demand. They have failed to take appropriate action for the welfare of body builders and gym owners.” “We are appealing to the government bodies that they should reconsider their unlock rule and give exemption to gym owners for reopening their businesses after following social distancing and health safety norms,”' another member said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/gym-owners-sell-equipment-in-protest/articleshow/77228508.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Jaipur||RBSE Class X results: Marginal rise in pass percentage||JAIPUR: Once again, girls have outshone boys in Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) Class X examination for which the results were announced on Tuesday. The pass percentage is 81.41 for girls and 78.99 for boys. The overall pass rate is 80.63% which is 0.78% higher than the last year. School education minister Govind Singh Dotasra announced the results at Shiksha Sankul in Jaipur on Tuesday.  He congratulated the students and appreciated efforts made by chief minister Ashok Gehlot for going ahead with the decision of conducting the board examination during the time of pandemic. “Despite the corona crisis, due to the strong will power of the chief minister, the education department decided to conduct examinations. CBSE cancelled national-level board examinations, but we were not deterred by the difficulties as board examinations are very important milestone in student’s life. Our government completed the guidelines related to corona to conduct the remaining examinations of the board. We even released the examination results with full transparency in the record period of one month,” said Dotasra. In the examination, 11,78,570 students registered. Of these, 11,52,201 appeared in the examination and 9,29,045 cleared the examination. According to the data provided by the department, 6,33,821 boys and 5,18,380 girls appeared in the examination. About 5,07,010 boys and 4,22,035 girls passed the examination. Out of these, 9,0648 students were given supplementary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rbse-class-x-results-marginal-rise-in-pass-age/articleshow/77229687.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Pune||20-year-old’s plan to study put on hold||PUNE: Abbas Irani worked as a salesman with a garment shop on MG Road for a year after passing the SSC exam. The 20-year-old Hadapsar resident planned to earn some money so he could study further. Lately, he has been selling garbage bags in the NIBM Road area to earn a living. Irani was eager to get back to studies but the lockdown upset his plans. He is now the only earning member in his family of three. “I passed the SSC exam in 2019 but I couldn’t study further as my family’s financial condition wasn’t good. My father is 45 years old and he would sell sunglasses by the roadside. Hence, I took up a job as a salesman at a garment shop and earned a salary of Rs10,000,” said Irani. He lost his job in April and his father’s business also came to a halt. “Some of my friends sell garbage bags and I started to do the same. I still hope to study further this year,” said Irani. On an average, he earns between Rs200 to Rs300, per day. “Each day, I walk along NIBM Road, Salunkhe Vihar Road, Kondhwa and Fatimanagar. With shops opening, I hope that my father will start his business again. Bad times don’t last forever,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/20-yr-olds-plan-to-study-put-on-hold/articleshow/77229689.cms||Joy Sengupta
July 29, 2020||Goa||2 projects through protected forests yet to get approval: CM||Panaji: The Union environment ministry has not granted approval to the projects involving the doubling of railway track, four laning of the national highway projects and for one transmission line, which are proposed through the Mollem National Park and Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary, chief minister Pramod Sawant said. “No approval has been granted under the Forest (Conservation) Act,1980, for two project proposals,” Sawant said in a written reply. The chief minister said the Union environment ministry has granted Stage-I (in-principle) approval under the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980, for diversion of 97.8ha of forest land for the three transmission line project proposals submitted by Goa Tamnar Transmission Project Ltd. However, approval for one of the three projects involving an area of 48.3ha, of which 11.5ha comes under the national park and wildlife sanctuary, is awaited. He also said that the forest department has received three proposals under the act for diversion of forest land involving area under the national park and wildlife sanctuary. The projects include doubling of the railway track from Castlerock to Margao and involve diversion of 138.4ha of forest area, out of which 128.3ha is in the wildlife sanctuary. The government has received representations/objections regarding the railway track project through the sanctuary and national park, however, the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) was carried out before approving the doubling of railway track and national highway projects. Since all the prescribed rules and procedure were followed for processing this proposal, no further action was required to be taken, he stated in his reply. “No additional land has been proposed by the user agency to set up machinery and dumps of raw materials in the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/2-projects-through-protected-forests-yet-to-get-approval-cm/articleshow/77229683.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Shoe company told to pay Rs 10,000 for charging Rs 2 for bag||JAIPUR: The state and national consumer dispute redressal commission has upheld the compensation of Rs 10,000 awarded to a consumer by the district consumer forum, Jaipur, for charging extra for a paper bag with printed advertisement of a shoe company. The district consumer forum had imposed a compensation of Rs 10,000 on Bata India Limited for charging Rs 2 for the company’s printed bag with shoes.The forum had ordered payment of compensation including 9% interest if the compensation is not paid in two months on complaint by Mahesh Pareek. The forum said in its order that the company gave this bag to the complainant for its advertisement and in return it recovered the cost of the bag. Neither the bag had the price written on it, nor was any information in this regard pasted at the store. The complainant had bought shoes from Bata store in Sodala on April 16, 2016, for Rs 399. The company added Rs 2 to the price and placed the shoes in a paper bag and gave it to the complainant. The complaint stated that the company name and logo were attached to the bag for the purpose of advertisement and the consumer being charged for the same is illegal. The company challenged the order in the state and national consumer dispute redressal forum but both of them upheld the order of the district forum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/shoe-co-told-to-pay-rs-10k-for-charging-rs-2-for-bag/articleshow/77229679.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Declining vegetation in Mudumalai Tiger Reserve to enhance carnivores’ prey base||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) in the Nilgiris, home to about 103 tigers, has of late been witnessing a gradual decrease in vegetation in the core area right from Theppakadu range. If one is wondering whether it is a dying forest and the change in ecosystem working against the wildlife, the answer is no. According to forest officials, it is a natural process and wildlife play a major role in shaping the ecosystem of a forest. Srinivas R Reddy, former field director of MTR, says, “It is not a dying forest. Elephants push trees down to eat the bark. They damage more vegetation than they eat. Given the state of affairs, MTR is actually gearing up for more carnivores, especially tigers. Lesser the tree density, more the grass land for carnivores’ prey base.” He says change in forest ecosystem is natural. “Unless there is no human-induced activity or artificial shaping, forests are safe in the hands of wildlife.” Theppekadu and Mudumalai range of forests in the MTR are dried up and regeneration is very poor. Planting tree saplings would not work in the reserve forests as animals would browse them. However, the damaged forest area would become grassland, which is an advantage for carnivores as that would become a good prey base for them, says Reddy. However, the other side of MTR (towards Kerala) is very much green as that is a riverine area. The changing composition of forest is a dynamic process and would enhance the forest and the wildlife, he says. K K Kaushal, field director, MTR, says, “It is - drying up of forest land in the MTR buffer zone - not a sudden change. Wild animals would migrate according to their requirements within the forest cover. More open area will help protect deer population.” But the spread of lantana camara, an invasive species, in the MTR is a cause for concern as it is outgrowing the natural grass. Kaushal says, “Only manual weeding is advisable in the forest area. There is no technology to weed out the invasive species that is harming the biodiversity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/declining-vegetation-in-mudumalai-tiger-reserve-to-enhance-carnivores-prey-base/articleshow/77229691.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Vadodara||Govt sets ceiling on Covid-19 treatment rates at private hospitals across Gujarat||GANDHINAGAR: The Gujarat government on Tuesday set an upper limit for what private hospitals across the state can charge for treating Covid-19 patients. This comes as the virus is spreading to smaller cities and towns and aims to prevent them from charging exorbitant fees for treatment. The government clarified that the rates announced on Tuesday will not be applicable to private hospitals in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot and Bhavnagar, where Covid treatment rates have already been fixed. A government statement said a ceiling rate of Rs 5,700 can be charged for Covid patients in non-ICU wards. Those admitted to high dependency units (HDU) cannot be charged more than Rs 8,075 per day. A ceiling of Rs 6,000 per day has been set for wards with ICU facilities and an upper limit of Rs 8,500 per day has been fixed for HDUs with ICU facilities. Covid patients being treated in ICU with isolation facilities can be charged an upper limit of Rs 14,500 per day, while those in ICUs with isolation facilities and ventilators can be charged a maximum of Rs 19,000 per day. The government statement added that these charges do not include the cost of tocilizumab and remdesivir injections and medicines for secondary bacterial infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/govt-sets-ceiling-on-covid-treatment-rates-at-private-hospitals-across-state/articleshow/77234872.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Nagpur||2-day PCR for CDCC Bank chief, CEO||Chandrapur: President of Chandrapur District Central Cooperative Bank (CDCC) Manohar Paunkar and chief executive officer Siddharth Dube, arrested on Monday for alleged corrupt practices in recruitment on compassionate grounds, were on Tuesday remanded in police custody for two days. After a few bank directors had filed a complaint with Ram Nagar police, an offence was registered under sections 409, 420 and 471 of IPC against Paunkar and Dube last month. The duo tried to secure anticipatory bail from district sessions court as well as high court, but their pleas were rejected. Both were absconding since then. On Monday, both Puankar and Dube had surrendered before the economic offences wing of the police. They were produced before the court on Tuesday and remanded in police custody till July 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-day-pcr-for-cdcc-bank-chief-ceo/articleshow/77229684.cms||Mazhar Ali
July 29, 2020||Surat||Young teacher commits suicide after losing job||Surat: : A 25-year-old teacher employed in a private school in Sachin allegedly committed suicide by hanging at his residence in Navsari’s Maroli town on Monday evening. Police said that the exact reason behind the drastic step is yet to be ascertained, but the deceased Vipul Tandel had lost his job post lockdown and he was under severe depression.Tandel, 25, was found hanging from the ceiling fan at his hosue in Tirupati society on Monday evening. He was living with his widowed mother.Police said that Tandel had joined the private school Sachin town on contract one year ago. He was also giving private tuitions at his house where he was teaching the primary students from the nearby areas of Maroli. However, the tuitions had also stopped due to the Covid-19 pandemic, police said.Post-lockdown, the school terminated his contract.Police inspector of Maroli, SM Sagar told TOI, “The teacher was very depressed after losing the job. He was earning Rs 5,000 per month, but post-lockdown he was told to leave. His widowed mother is a daily wager and he had gone out for work on Monday when he committed suicide”Sagar added, “He had no source of income as he was unable to restart the tuition classes due to Covid-19 pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/young-teacher-commits-suicide-after-losing-job/articleshow/77226956.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Lucknow||UP eyes fifth Guinness, plants 2,880 saplings of 240 species||LUCKNOW: With eyes set on a Guinness World Record, UP planted 2,880 saplings of 240 different species at eight spots in one hour on Tuesday. In eight districts chosen for the exercise, 12 saplings each of 30 different species were planted, making it 360 trees for one district and 2,880 trees for eight districts. The exercise was conducted between 10am and 11am. The plantation was done in the presence of independent verifiers at all sites by teams of the forest department. Videos and photographs collected from the sites by verifiers and forest department will be sent to the London office of Guinness. “An online verification of the data we send would be done by Guinness,” said mission director, Plantation 2020, Mukesh Kumar. If UP gets the certificate, it would be the state’s fifth world record for plantation since 2007, when the first one came for planting 1 crore trees in a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-eyes-fifth-guinness-plants-2880-saplings-of-240-species/articleshow/77230446.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt sets ceiling on Covid-19 treatment rates at private hospitals across Gujarat||GANDHINAGAR: The Gujarat government on Tuesday set an upper limit for what private hospitals across the state can charge for treating Covid-19 patients. This comes as the virus is spreading to smaller cities and towns and aims to prevent them from charging exorbitant fees for treatment. The government clarified that the rates announced on Tuesday will not be applicable to private hospitals in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot and Bhavnagar, where Covid treatment rates have already been fixed. A government statement said a ceiling rate of Rs 5,700 can be charged for Covid patients in non-ICU wards. Those admitted to high dependency units (HDU) cannot be charged more than Rs 8,075 per day. A ceiling of Rs 6,000 per day has been set for wards with ICU facilities and an upper limit of Rs 8,500 per day has been fixed for HDUs with ICU facilities. Covid patients being treated in ICU with isolation facilities can be charged an upper limit of Rs 14,500 per day, while those in ICUs with isolation facilities and ventilators can be charged a maximum of Rs 19,000 per day. The government statement added that these charges do not include the cost of tocilizumab and remdesivir injections and medicines for secondary bacterial infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-sets-ceiling-on-covid-treatment-rates-at-private-hospitals-across-state/articleshow/77228516.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Rajkot||Govt sets ceiling on Covid-19 treatment rates at private hospitals across Gujarat||GANDHINAGAR: The Gujarat government on Tuesday set an upper limit for what private hospitals across the state can charge for treating Covid-19 patients. This comes as the virus is spreading to smaller cities and towns and aims to prevent them from charging exorbitant fees for treatment. The government clarified that the rates announced on Tuesday will not be applicable to private hospitals in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot and Bhavnagar, where Covid treatment rates have already been fixed. A government statement said a ceiling rate of Rs 5,700 can be charged for Covid patients in non-ICU wards. Those admitted to high dependency units (HDU) cannot be charged more than Rs 8,075 per day. A ceiling of Rs 6,000 per day has been set for wards with ICU facilities and an upper limit of Rs 8,500 per day has been fixed for HDUs with ICU facilities. Covid patients being treated in ICU with isolation facilities can be charged an upper limit of Rs 14,500 per day, while those in ICUs with isolation facilities and ventilators can be charged a maximum of Rs 19,000 per day. The government statement added that these charges do not include the cost of tocilizumab and remdesivir injections and medicines for secondary bacterial infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/govt-sets-ceiling-on-covid-treatment-rates-at-private-hospitals-across-state/articleshow/77234873.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Surat||Govt sets ceiling on Covid-19 treatment rates at private hospitals across Gujarat||GANDHINAGAR: The Gujarat government on Tuesday set an upper limit for what private hospitals across the state can charge for treating Covid-19 patients. This comes as the virus is spreading to smaller cities and towns and aims to prevent them from charging exorbitant fees for treatment. The government clarified that the rates announced on Tuesday will not be applicable to private hospitals in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot and Bhavnagar, where Covid treatment rates have already been fixed. A government statement said a ceiling rate of Rs 5,700 can be charged for Covid patients in non-ICU wards. Those admitted to high dependency units (HDU) cannot be charged more than Rs 8,075 per day. A ceiling of Rs 6,000 per day has been set for wards with ICU facilities and an upper limit of Rs 8,500 per day has been fixed for HDUs with ICU facilities. Covid patients being treated in ICU with isolation facilities can be charged an upper limit of Rs 14,500 per day, while those in ICUs with isolation facilities and ventilators can be charged a maximum of Rs 19,000 per day. The government statement added that these charges do not include the cost of tocilizumab and remdesivir injections and medicines for secondary bacterial infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/govt-sets-ceiling-on-covid-treatment-rates-at-private-hospitals-across-state/articleshow/77234874.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Aurangabad||Centenarian from Beed district succumbs to Covid-19||AURANGABAD: A centenarian from Beed district is among four patients who succumbed to the Covid-19 infection on Tuesday. They were undergoing treatment at the government medical college and hospital (GMCH). With this, the Covid-19 fatality toll in the district swelled to 449. The centenarian, a resident of Mominpura, Georai taluka, was admitted to the GMCH on July 13. He died due to acute respiratory distress syndrome with cytokine storm with bilateral pneumonitis due to Covid-19 in a case of hypertension. Among others who succumbed to the infection were a 31-year-old man from the Ambedkar nagar area of the city. He was suffering from comorbidity and was admitted on July 18. Other deceased people include a 65-year-old woman from Roza Bagh and a 60-year-old from Adgaon of Kannad taluka. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/centenarian-from-beed-district-succumbs-to-covid-19/articleshow/77226904.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Mangaluru||K V Rajendra is new DK DC||Mangaluru: Amidst a surge in covid-19 cases on the coast, Dakshina Kannada (DK) will have a change in guard to its response against the pandemic in 2013 batch IAS officer K V Rajendra. He will replace Sindhu B Rupesh, who on September 7, 2019 took over as the 129th deputy commissioner of this district. Rajendra, an alumnus of JJM Medical College, Davanagere, is currently the CEO of Belagavi zilla panchayat. Having served as assistant commissioner of Puttur sub-division for nearly a year from December 2015, Dr Rajendra, a resident of Thirthahalli in Shivamogga district, had his probationary training in Bidar and was posted as CEO of Ballari ZP where he worked for nearly three years before his current posting since January 21, 2019. He also had a brief stint as assistant secretary in the department of fertiliser with the ministry of chemicals and fertilisers. Sindhu who was the CEO of Udupi zilla panchayat had succeeded Sasikanth Senthil, who resigned from the Indian Administrative Service on September 6, 2019. The government in its transfer orders has posted Sindhu as director, electronic delivery of citizen services (EDCS) in the existing vacancy. Sindhu said that the transfer was an unexpected development, but part and parcel of the administrative service. Dr Rajendra said that he expects cooperation from all stakeholders in administering the district, amidst the mounting Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/k-v-rajendra-is-new-dk-dc/articleshow/77226961.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Nagpur||G’chiroli police defuse 10kg explosive||Nagpur: Gadchiroli district police foiled a major sabotage plan of the Maoists on Monday by defusing a 10kg landmine from road connecting Regdi and Kotmi villages, a day before ‘martyrs week’ kickstarts. It’s learnt that Regdi outpost police party came across the landmine planted by the Maoists to target security forces. SP Shailesh Balkawade said the explosive was kept concealed in a container. “The explosive was defused on the spot and a major incident was averted,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gchiroli-police-defuse-10kg-explosive/articleshow/77229690.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Mumbai||ED searches GVK offices in Mumbai, Hyderabad and Pune in Rs 705 crore case||MUMBAI: Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday searched five offices associated with GVK group in Mumbai (two), in Hyderabad (two) and in Pune as part of a probe into a Rs 705 crore money-laundering case related to development of Mumbai airport. ED collected computer records and documents to examine financial transactions of companies associated with GVK group. GVK declined to comment on the searches. ED registered a money-laundering case against GVK group, its chairman Venkata Krishna Reddy, Mumbai International Airport (MIAL) and its managing director Sanjay Reddy along with others for alleged irregularities in the airport’s development. ED’s probe under PMLA (Prevention of Money Laundering Act) is based on an FIR registered by CBI on June 27 against 13 persons, including Venkata and his son Sanjay, and Airports Authority of India (AAI) officials. CBI had searched GVK’s premises in Mumbai and Hyderabad following registration of the FIR. MIAL allegedly indulged in fraudulent transactions to help GVK, causing a loss to AAI, a government entity managing the airport earlier. ED is probing financial transactions of MIAL, GVK group companies and private companies roped in for the airport’s development. The central government agency will follow the money trail generated through allegedly fraudulent transactions. MIAL is a joint venture formed in April 2006, in which GVK Airport Holdings holds 50.5%, AAI 26%, and the rest is with foreign entities. MIAL was given the airport’s operational management and maintenance. MIAL was to manage operations and share 38.7 % of earnings with AAI first, and keep the rest with the company for modernization of the airport. GVK, allegedly in connivance with AAI officials, committed fraud. In one case, AAI gave a 200-acre land parcel near the airport to MIAL for development and revenue generation. But MIAL allegedly entered into a bogus contract in 2017 with Aishwaryagiri Construction, Kotia Enterprises, SBK Trade & Infrastructure, Subhash Infra, Aqua Tech Solutions, MV Omni Projects, Richa Industries, Nice Projects and Aditi Infrabuild for real estate development. MIAL allegedly transferred Rs 310 crore to these companies but the contracts were not executed. In another case, the accused allegedly forged a board meeting resolution of MIAL to use Rs 395 crore surplus fund to create a fixed deposit in Bank of India’s Hyderabad branch. GVK allegedly raised loans against the FD for other group companies. The accused also allegedly allotted premium retail areas of the airport to companies owned by family members, relatives and close employees at low rates that caused a revenue loss to AAI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ed-searches-gvk-offices-in-city-hyd-pune-in-rs705cr-case/articleshow/77228568.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Kanpur||Man found dead in a car in canal near Saifai air-strip||Kanpur:The body of a 45-year-old man was found in the Canal on road leading to Saifai air-strip in Etawah on Tuesday morning. The police identified the deceased as Gajendra Singh Gudawaria, a native of C-block Section 4, Noida. The body was found in a car (UP 16 -BM 0452) which fell into the canal. It was only after the police with the help of villagers that the car was pulled out. According to police, the man, who was basically a native of Rajasthan, at present was living in Noida. The police said that the car had a travel pass of five people and Gajendra was mentioned in it as a car driver. Saifai police station in charge Chandradeo Singh, however, said: “We have apprised Gajendra’s family members about the incident. They are on way to Etawah. Whether it was an accident, or was the man murdered, will only become clear after postmortem examination, which will be conducted, once his family members will arrive from Rajasthan.” The police further said: “We have urged the local residents of Saifai to kindly inform the police if they noticed anything suspicious on Monday night near the canal, where the man drowned with the car, so that if there is any culprit behind the man’s death, he/she could be nabbed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-found-dead-in-a-car-in-canal-near-saifai-air-strip/articleshow/77229695.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi south corporation asks residents for donation to buy Covid gear||NEW DELHI: The cash-strapped South Delhi Municipal Corporation is now requesting residents to contribute funds to provide safety gear to its staff and take other preventive measures in the fight against Covid-19. SDMC has created an account for people to donate funds so that they can procure masks, gloves, PPE kits for their health and sanitation workers and create other facilities to help masses. The proposal was approved at a meeting in the House on Monday. The proposal stated that while the civic body was making several arrangements to fight Covid-19, it needed money to continue the efforts. It added that in case of an emergency, community halls and schools buildings might also be required to be converted into isolation or quarantine wards. “For all these activities, a lot of fund may be required but SDMC has limited resources. To strengthen the civic body’s finances, it is proposed to accept voluntary donations from the general public as a gift under the DMC Act,” the proposal said. Officials said that the donations would be accepted only through online payment, and for this, a separate bank account would be opened and details would be in public domain. Narendra Chawla, leader of the House in SMDC, said that the funds would only be used for preventive measures or treatment of Covid-19 cases. “Donors will receive a certificate of appreciation but no other benefit will be given. The proposal becomes even more important as we have assured a compensation of Rs 10 lakh on death of any staff member due to Covid-19, but Delhi government is not helping us at all,” he said. The civic body also plans to use its unipoles and other advertisements modes to popularise the concept. “We already have no money to pay salary and this month also the problem is expected to continue,” said an SDMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/s-corpn-asks-residents-for-donation-to-buy-covid-gear/articleshow/77229699.cms||Vibha Sharma
July 29, 2020||Surat||Two blood banks get nod to collect plasma||Surat: In a crucial development regarding treatment of Covid-19 patients, two prominent blood banks in Surat city have got the permission for collecting plasma collections from Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI).Lok Samarpan Raktdan Kendra and Surat Raktandan Kendra have received nod and they are set to start collecting plasma.“We have received the required permission for convalscent plasma collection and we are approaching recovered patients to come forward for donation. We will be launching an awareness campaign so that more people come forward to donate plasma,” Dr. Subhakh Kheni, director, Lok Samarpan Raktdan Kendra, told TOI.Located in Mini Bazaar in Varachha area, the blood bank collects 25,000 units of blood per year in the city.Dr Sumeet Bharadva, director of Surat Raktdan Kendra, which collects over 30,000 units every year, said, “We already have the required infrastructure and facility to collect plasma from Covid-19 recovered patients. Three donors have already contacted us.” Till now, only the two blood banks in Surat Municipal Corporation’s (SMC) SMIMER Hospital’s blood bank and state-run New Civil Hospital had the permission to collect plasma. According to sources, over 190 Covid-19 recovered patients have donated their plasma in the city and the results in the patients have been encouraging.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-blood-banks-get-nod-to-collect-plasma/articleshow/77227003.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Min trains gun on Rahman’s oppressors||Coimbatore: Municipal administration minister S P Velumani has come out in support of ace music composer A R Rahman, who said canards were spread against him in Bollywood to deprive him of opportunities to work. Rahman’s statement that a gang is working against him in Bollywood, spreading rumours to prevent him from getting good movies has come at a time when the insider-outsider debate is raging in the Hindi film industry. Tweeting his support to Rahman on Tuesday, S P Velumani strongly condemned the people working against the music composer. “It is saddening to note that son of the soil, `Oscar nayagan’ who had not only touched our hearts, but also reached Himalayan heights with his music in the global stage, had said that certain people were spreading rumours to deprive him of good movies.” Mukkulathor Puli Padai leader and MLA Karunas has also condemned the people spreading such rumours against Rahman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/min-trains-gun-on-rahmans-oppressors/articleshow/77229696.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Ludhiana||MC looking at converting old electric crematorium to an LPG one||LUDHIANA: The civic authorities are planning to convert an old electric crematorium into an LPG one for the cremation of Covid-19 victims. As soon as the number of Covid patients is rising in the district, the number of deaths is also increasing and one LPG crematorium is not sufficient to meet the demand. So on Tuesday, mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal visited a crematorium at Daresi, where one LPG-based crematorium was installed but it was never put to use and now even its electricity connection had been disconnected. The mayor claimed that for cremation of Covid victims many precautions were required. Though at Dholewal cremation ground one LPG crematorium is functional, just a single system is not sufficient. He claimed that another LPG crematorium is also being planned at Dholewal cremation ground. Sandhu claimed that they also contacted the management committee and one of the committee members Sunil Kumar claimed that the electric crematorium had not been functioning for the past 18 years and it was not advisable to restore the electricity connection.  He said now they had decided to change this into an LPG crematorium and for that SE Rahul Gagneja has been deputed. He said Gagneja had been asked to visit other cremation grounds as well. The mayor claimed that there were LPG crematoriums in other cremation grounds like Neechi Mangli and Dehlon also and they would check the arrangements there as well. This electric crematorium was installed by MLA Rakesh Pandey around 18 years back at Daresi cremation ground but it could not be used even once because people prefer traditional rituals at the death of their loved ones. Besides, the powercom had also snapped its electricity connection long back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-looking-at-converting-old-electric-crematorium-to-an-lpg-one/articleshow/77228517.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Goa||Goa: House replies on Mollem projects inconsistent, says activists||PANAJI: Unstarred questions about Mollem that were put up at the one-day monsoon assembly session on Monday by Rohan Khaunte and Ramkrishna Dhavalikar were of a very general nature, said the Save Mollem Goa Citizens’ Group. “It is so very disheartening to have our elected representatives…fail to bring it up in the assembly,” said Lorraine Fernandes. The responses they got were that environmental impact assessments (EIA) reports were only submitted for two out of the three projects, and excluded the LILO transmission line, they wrote in a statement issued on Tuesday. “The reply to Khaunte’s unstarred question states that the forest minister has received three proposals for three projects, when an independent analysis from lawyers a few days ago to the Central Empowered Committee of the Supreme Court shows five different proposals have been received for the three projects inside Mollem, besides at least four more forest diversion proposals outside,” the statement read. The citizens’ group also pointed out that a Sterlite power project has asked for police protection for the 400 KV LILO transmission line and substation at Xeldem before this project was even approved and until its finalisation. They questioned why the office of the collector and district magistrate, South Goa provided protection as early as February 2019 when the project was passed only much later in April 2020. “We need answers to our questions since all these unnecessary and environmentally-destructive projects were passed hurriedly. It’s a humble request not to destroy an international tourist destination like Goa under the guise of development and building of state economy,” said student Chrisene Oliveira.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/house-replies-on-mollem-projs-inconsistent-activists/articleshow/77229693.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: With daily study of just 3 hours, labourer’s son scores 97.17%||JAIPUR: A labourer’s son Anurag Nagar scored 97.17% in Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) Class X examination. Anurag is a student of Government Senior Secondary School, Sanganer. His father worked at a cloth factory in Sanganer to sustain his family before he lost his job after the outbreak of pandemic. Since then, his family has moved back to their village Dilwara in Baran district. “It was a difficult decision, but since pandemic, my father do not have any other source of earning. So, we decided to return to our village. We will resume our farming as we have a piece of land here. Here I am planning to take admission in Navodya Vidhyalay for further studies,” said Anurag. He scored 100 marks in social science, 99 in English and Sanskrit, 95 in mathematics and 93 in Hindi. His total score was 583 out of 600. Studying for just three hours during school days, Anurag said that he used to take up studies like playing games. “I never thought studies as a burden. It was like game and I studied with full concentration. It was my consistency that I got such a good result,” said Anurag. He further explained that he set up a time-table for completing his syllabus. He was done with one revision by December and then started solving previous year question papers and further revision. Anurag said with confidence, “This is not rocket science. Just study regularly and complete the subject that you find tough. With last year question paper, this will give students an idea of question paper pattern. Practice solving papers with a timer so that it will help them to be mentally prepare and finish exam on time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/with-daily-study-of-just-3-hrs-labourers-son-scores-97-17/articleshow/77229694.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Poor facilities at quarantine centre raise cop’s hackles||LUDHIANA: The district administration and the health department’s poor arrangements at a quarantine centre raised the hackles of policemen admitted there. They took up the matter with their seniors and were shifted to home quarantine on Tuesday. Of the 20 cops who had tested positive for novel coronavirus on Monday, some were isolated at the quarantine centre in Meritorious School, near Rose Garden. The cops said they were denied basic facilities like bedsheets and pillows at the centre, which was plagued by not-up-to-scratch sanitation services. “Besides, the health department did not give us any medicines, whether immunity boosters or vitamins, for an entire day,” they added. While speaking with the TOI on phone, a Covid-19 positive cop said, “After I tested positive, I wanted to stay at home and isolate myself in a separate room. But, I was taken to the Meritorious School isolation centre. There, I and five other positive patients were accommodated in one room. There was one washroom for all six and no worker to clean it. The centre lacked basic facilities. We could not sleep properly as there were no bedsheets or pillows.” Another cop said, “I was admitted to the centre around 4pm. Besides tea and food, we were not given anything else. There was no warm drinking water or kadha, fruits and medicines. Why would anyone live at a centre that offers no provisions? No doubt, a suspected patient escaped from there on Monday.” “After spending a night there, we approached our seniors and apprised them of the inadequate amenities at the centre. We were then shifted to home quarantine,” a cop added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/poor-facilities-at-quarantine-centre-raise-cops-hackles/articleshow/77226974.cms||Payal Dhawan
July 29, 2020||India||Mayawati to approach SC over Congress ‘stealing’ her MLAs||LUCKNOW/JAIPUR: BSP chief Mayawati said on Tuesday that her party has decided to “teach a lesson” to Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot for the “unconstitutional” merger of her MLAs with Congress in the state and will not hesitate to approach the Supreme Court in pursuit of the disqualification of the six legislators who had crossed over to the treasury benches last year. The attack on Congress came on a day when BJP MLA Madan Dilawar filed two fresh petitions before the Rajasthan high court challenging the BSP-Congress merger in the state. On Monday, the HC had rejected his plea seeking direction to the assembly speaker to decide on his complaint against the merger of the six MLAs which had been pending since March. The court was informed on Monday that the speaker had already taken a decision on the complaint. Attacking Gehlot for “stealing” her MLAs, and demanding imposition of President’s rule, Mayawati said there was a conspiracy against BSP in Rajasthan in which Gehlot was involved. Reminding the six MLAs of the whip issued by BSP to vote against Congress in the assembly, she said, “If the MLAs do not follow our directions, we will take the matter of their disqualification to the SC.” In an apparent reference to Sachin Pilot’s revolt, calling Congress the “original thief”, she said, “Chori ka saamaan chori hone par shor macha rahe hain (They are screaming after what they stole has been stolen by someone else).” She asked why the Congress high command was quiet about the six BSP MLAs. She said BSP has taken a decision to oppose the Gehlot government after being “cheated by Congress multiple times”. Meanwhile, the two petitions Dilawar filed on Tuesday have been listed for hearing on Wednesday. While the first challenges speaker C P Joshi’s decision to dismiss his complaint, the second challenges the BSP-Congress merger as a violation of the Constitution. The BSP chief demanded imposition of President’s rule in Rajasthan, alleging a conspiracy against her party in the state in which CM Gehlot was involved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mayawati-to-approach-sc-over-congress-stealing-her-mlas/articleshow/77231235.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Mangrove cover in state drops by 4sqkm||Coimbatore: The mangrove cover in the state has reduced by 4sqkm between 2017 and 2019, according to the Forest Survey of India statistics. This is when the mangrove cover in the country has increased by 54sqkm during the period, says Kannan C S Warrier, senior principal scientist, Institute of Forest Genetics and Tree Breeding (IFGTB), which celebrated the International Day for the Conservation of the Mangrove Ecosystem recently. Speaking at the event that was conducted on IFGTB campus, Warrier said the Forest Survey of India has assessed the mangrove cover across the 12 major mangrove habitats in the country. “While the cover has increased by 37sqkm in Gujarat, 16sqkm in Maharashtra and 8sqkm in Odisha, Tamil Nadu along with three other states saw a drop in the mangrove cover by 4sqkm.” Referring to the importance of mangroves, he said they were effective carbon sinks. “Mangroves act as a form of natural coastal defence against storm surges, rising sea levels, tsunamis and soil erosion.” IFGTB director C Kunhikannan said mangroves also provide a valuable nursery habitat for fish and crustaceans. Hence, it is essential to plant more mangrove species and increase their density, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mangrove-cover-in-state-drops-by-4sqkm/articleshow/77229702.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Ajmer||Youth arrested with fake police ID in Ajmer||AJMER: Police arrested an accused for making fake identity card of police officials. The matter came to light when he took Rs 20,000 to recruit a man as probationary officer in a bank. Complainant Naresh Sain, a resident of Pancheel Colony, had filed a police complaint that Vishal Sain (26), resident of Dataramgarh of Sikar district, had taken Rs 20,000 to recruit him in a bank. Police arrested Vishal and recovered fake identity cards of inspector of ACB of Ajmer wing, inspector of IB department and also a seal of joint secretary of recruitment department of Mumbai. Police are investigating the matter to uncover more such cases of cheating and nab other members of the group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/youth-arrested-with-fake-police-id-in-ajmer/articleshow/77229703.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Nagpur||Avoid Ganesh fest celebration in public places: Mundhe||Nagpur: Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on Tuesday urged all Ganesh mandals in the city not to celebrate the 10-day Ganesh festival, starting on August 22, in public. “In view of the Covid pandemic, celebrate the Ganeshotsav at home and help the administration to curb the virus spread. If celebrated in public, more cases of Covid-19 infection cannot be ruled out,” said Mundhe at a meeting with organizers at Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s headquarters in Civil Lines. Gopal Bohare of Sahas Ganeshotsav Mandal, Pratap Nagar, Akash Rajnani of Shri Balmitra Ganeshotsav Mandal, Chhapru Nagar, Vinod Larokar of Shri Tarun Balmitra Ganeshotsav Mandal, Maskasat, and Akshay Chaudhary of Dakshinamurti Ganeshotsav Mandal, Mahal, attended the meeting. “Even if the mandals go ahead with installation of Ganesh idols at public pandals, the organizers should follow the state government’s guidelines. The height of Ganpati idols to be installed at homes should be up to two feet and that by the mandals maximum up to four feet. Immersion of the idols should be done in artificial tanks only,” he urged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/avoid-ganesh-fest-celebration-in-public-places-mundhe/articleshow/77229701.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Pune||In Pune, fake army man swindles eatery staffer of Rs 56,000||PUNE: A fraudster duped an eatery employee of over Rs56,000 under the garb of an army officer on the pretext of selling the latter cheap furniture between July 19 and 20. The 28-year-old man from Vadgaon Sheri registered a complaint with the cybercrime police on Monday. The employee contacted the fraudster via an advertisement of cheap furniture and gadgets on social media. The fraudster sent him fake photo copies of his identity claiming he was an army officer. He then struck a deal to purchase furniture for Rs35,000. The suspect induced him to pay varying amounts towards GST, security tax and duped him of over Rs56,000. A police officer said, “The complainant used his e-wallet to transfer money into fraudster’s two e-wallets based out of West Bengal and Odisha. The fraudster then switched off his cellphones. He later contacted the complainant and asked for more money to seek refund.” After the complainant failed to get delivery of furniture, he realized he was tricked and filed a complaint application with cyber police. Offences under relevant sections of IPC and Motor Vehicles Act were registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fake-army-man-swindles-eatery-staffer-of-rs-56000/articleshow/77229706.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Bhopal||Eye on bypolls, BJP to bank on Chambal-Gwalior development||BHOPAL: Development of Gwalior- Chambal region, where crucial by-polls is to be held on majority of assembly seats in coming months that would decide the fate of Madhya Pradesh government, is in the focus of both the state and Union government. After the ambitious Gwalior-Chambal Expressway project, the Centre has decided to turn the ravines into arable land and collaborated with World Bank for the purpose on Sunday. A preliminary report for the same will be prepared in a month, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Sunday. After preparation of the initial report, subsequent meetings will be held with the chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan for further course of action, he said. A decision in this regard was taken in a virtual meeting with World Bank representative Adarsh Kumar, who said the it is keen to work in MP, an official statement said. “More than 3 lakh hectares of rugged land is not cultivable and if this area is improved, then it will help in the integrated development of the ‘beehad’ area (ravines infested with dacoits) in the Gwalior-Chambal region,” the statement quoted Tomar as saying in the virtual meeting. Tomar further said the project will not only help improve agricultural development and environment but will also create employment opportunities and lead to substantive development of the region. Tomar said there is a lot of scope for development of the ‘beehad’ area in Gwalior-Chambal region. The Chambal Expressway will be built and will pass through this area, through which the overall development of the region would be possible. “It was decided that the substantive project would be prepared in collaboration and support from the World Bank to accomplish the work. It has been decided to prepare a preliminary project report within a month,” the statement added. Chambal Expressway, which is a major development project for the region and will impact around 16 assembly seats where bypolls are to be held soon in Jyotiraditya Scindia dominated Gwalior- Chamal belt of MP . The 300-kilometre expressway project is at land acquisition stage. Union minister Nitin Gadkari said while addressing the BJP’s ‘Jan Samvad’ virtual rally in Bhopal from Nagpur on June 10 that if government completes acquiring 80% land in three months for the project, he will invite Prime Minister Narendra Modi to lay the foundation stone of the project. The dates for the bypolls have not been announced yet, but Gadkari’s statement was seen as start of BJP election campaign. BJP leaders said it is not just highway for the government, but a major development move for the entire region. Government plans industrial units and food clusters on both the sides of the highway to boost micro, small and medium enterprises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/eye-on-bypolls-bjp-to-bank-on-chambal-gwalior-devpt/articleshow/77228532.cms||Ankur Sirothia
July 29, 2020||Goa||Goa: Postcards released on World Nature Conservation Day||PANAJI: Ten postcards depicting different birds were released by the department of posts at Tapal Bhavan on Monday to commemorate the World Nature Conservation Day, celebrated on July 28, to recognise that a healthy environment is key to a healthy and sustainable society. “These picture postcards are a collectors’ item, as only a limited number of postcards are printed and a special cancellation depicting today’s importance of a healthy environment is also attached,” said Dr Ramesh Kumar, president, Goa philately and numismatics society. The picture postcards depict different birds seen in Goa during different seasons. A cancelled pack of 10 picture postcards costs Rs 250 and a plain pack of 10 picture postcards cost Rs 150.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/postcards-released-on-world-nature-conservation-day/articleshow/77229700.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 2 detained for murder of teenager||JAIPUR/ALWAR: In the murder of a minor by a teenager in Bharatpur on Monday, cops have detained two main accused, including the juvenile who pulled the trigger along with the person who allegedly provided the weapon to the accused juvenile. They have also recovered the weapon and are questioning the accused behind the fatal shooting. A 15-year-old had shot a 12-year-old to death in Mathura Gate police station area on Monday. Amandeep Kapoor, SP, Bharatpur said, “The shooting appears to be accidental and initially, the accused minor was in quite a distraught state to give us too many details though during the investigation, we found that it was not intentional.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-detained-for-murder-of-teenager/articleshow/77229704.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Ludhiana||DMCH sends reply to notice, says there was no bed||LUDHIANA: In a case of the death of a 50-year-old Covid positive businessman, who was allegedly not given proper treatment by the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), the hospital has filed a reply to the notice sent by the district administration. While the hospital authority in its reply claimed to have given required treatment to the patient, the son of the deceased on Tuesday released his video, telling his side of story and the alleged harassment faced by them. He also stated that there was no system in Ludhiana though the administration was claiming to have all facilities and beds. After receiving the reply, the chief medical officer Dr Rajesh Bagga has decided to form a committee to take further action. The victim’s son stated that his father was unwell, so they had gone to the DMCH to give samples for the test of Covid-19. Next day, his father started facing respiratory problem, so he was rushed to the hospital. He asked doctors to admit him, however, they refused as the test report was still awaited. He added that his father’s health was deteriorating due to which he kept requesting hospital staffers to at least admit him and give him oxygen. However, the authorities kept him there on a stretcher. His father kept saying that he was unable to breathe and only then he was given oxygen. Despite that he was facing breathlessness doctors were adamant on first getting the report. He further said that finally the report came by 4pm, which was positive. Thereafter, the hospital authorities refused to admit his father, saying that they don’t have a bed. They asked to take him to the civil hospital. He alleged that the DMCH also denied giving an ambulance. He called every private hospital but got the same reply that they don’t have beds. Then he hired a private ambulance, which took Rs 4,000 for merely 4km to take his father from the DMCH to civil hospital. But there he was declared dead. “I am making this video to make you all aware that there is no system in Ludhiana. They are claiming that they are providing beds, but that is not true. I would also suggest people to rather go to the civil hospital, there you will get the list of hospitals where beds are available. When the civil hospital refers you to some hospital, then other private hospitals will give you treatment,” he added. Dr Bagga said that the authority of the DMCH had replied to the notice that they had no bed to accommodate the patient. Moreover, the test report came late and till the time they had accommodated the patient to the flue corner and put him on oxygen. As soon as his test report came positive, they asked the kin to take the patient to the civil hospital due to unavailability of a bed. When asked about the decision on this issue, Bagga said, “I am constituting a committee that will examine everything and will decide on further action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dmch-sends-reply-to-notice-says-there-was-no-bed/articleshow/77228533.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur boy scores 100 in 4 subjects, 99 in Hindi||JAIPUR: Aayush Nama, a student of Riya International Academy, Sanganer, scored 98.83% in Board of Secondary Education, Rajasthan (RBSE) Class X results announced on Tuesday. Aayush scored 593 out of 600 while getting full 100 marks in mathematics, science, English and Sanskrit subjects. In Hindi, he scored 99 and in social science he got 94 marks. Talking about his success, Aayush said he was expecting above 95%. “My exams went really well. I was fully prepared for the result. I worked hard for the exams and my scores are the fruits of it,” said Aayush. His weak subject was social science in which he scored the lowest. Aayush described theoretical subjects as his weak area.  “I studied hard to score in social science, but somehow I wasn’t able to master it. I completed my syllabus and revised this subject multiple times,” explained Aayush. Son of a marketing agent and housewife, Aayush wants to pursue his dream of becoming an engineer. “Now I will start taking coaching from Jaipur for IIT entrance exam. I studied for around 6-8 hours a day regularly. I never used to skip my routine. I was well-versed with my syllabus till January before the pre-board,” said Aayush with pride. This was Aayush’s first board exam so he was a bit nervous, however, preparing for pre-board exams and getting good marks in it boosted his confidence. Aayush said, “I was already done with my syllabus and good marks in pre-boards increased my confidence. I would suggest students to just focus and study with consistency. Prepare a time-table and follow it religiously. Just stay away from any kind of distractions on social media or online gaming. Remember your goal”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-boy-scores-100-in-4-subjects-99-in-hindi/articleshow/77229698.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19: Six of district die, all had comorbidities||LUDHIANA: Seven persons died of Covid-19 on Tuesday, when 161 positive cases, including 146 from the district, were reported. Among the casualties is a 75-year-old man from Amritsar. Chief medical officer Dr Rajesh Bagga said the rest of the six casualties are of Ludhiana residents. A 69-year-old diabetic man from Chawni Mohalla died at the civil hospital, a 67-year-old hypertensive and diabetic man from Janta Nagar died at Fortis Hospital, a 68-year-old woman, who was also hypertensive and diabetic, died at SPS Hospital, a 75-year-old man of Shimlapuri died at Rajindra Hospital in Patiala, a 61-year-old man of Salem Tabri died at Mohan Dai Oswal Hospital and a 51-year-old woman from Janta Nagar, who was a TB patient, died at SPS Hospital. With these deaths, Ludhiana toll tally has reached 71, and 37 from outside have died here so far. Health department said on Tuesday, 101 positive reports were received from GMC, Patiala, of which 94 were from the district and one each from Jalandhar, Fatehgarh Sahib, Ferozepur, Mansa, Sangrur, Fazilka and Jammu and Kashmir. The district positive cases include nine from Uttam Nagar of Chandigarh Road, 10 from Jamalpur, five from BRS Nagar, four each from Model Town Extension and Dugri, three each from Focal Point, Shimlapuri, Ashok Nagar, Jagraon, Sahnewal, two each from Mundiya Khurd, Salem Tabri, Ghumar Mandi, Sarabha Nagar, Halwara. One case each was reported from Sherpur, Dhandari, Choti Mundiya, Jeevan Nagar, Moti Nagar, Tajpur Road, Basti Jodhewal, Habib Road, Haibowal, Baba Deep Singh Nagar of Sherpur, Kailash Nagar, Guru Angad Dev Colony, Barewal, Pakhowal Road, Chandar Nagar, Kot Sekha, Pamali, Gujjarwal, Sudhar, Dugrapuri of Haibowal, Mandi Mullanpur, Chandigarh Road, Kanganwal, Puneet Nagar, Bhagat Avenue, EWS Colony, Muslim Colony, Tibba Road, Rishi Nagar, Pratap Chowk, Daba Colony, Ram Wasli Mohalla, Shahpur Road, Rajguru Nagar, Green Valley of Haibowal, Ambedkar Colony and Kitchlu Nagar. Health officials said 60 positive reports were received from private hospitals and laboratories, of which 52 were from the district, three from Amritsar and one each from Bathinda, Sangrur, Jalandhar, Mansa and Rajasthan. These 52 positive cases include six from Civil Lines, five from Basti Jodhewal, four from Barewal Road, three from Rose Enclave, two each from Shimalpuri, Rajguru Nagar, Dugri, Kakowal Road and one each from Kutbewal Gujjran, Krishna Nagar, Bagga Khurd, South City of Ayali Khurd, Focal Point, Dugri Road, Jawaddi Khurd, Bazaran Mohalla, SBS Nagar, Rishi Nagar, Kitchlu Nagar, Ambedkar Nagar, Karnail Singh Nagar, BRS Nagar, Rahon Road, Baba Deep Singh Nagar of Focal Point, Maya Nagar, Barewal, Shastri Nagar, Ayali Khurd, Bagga Kalan, Ghaloti, Jamalpur, Lalton Kalan, Bhagwan Nagar and Gurdev Nagar. The positive cases include six healthcare workers from Bhagwan Nagar, Lalton Kalan, Sukhdev Nagar of Jamalpur, Basant Avenue of Dugri, Raman Enclave of Rishi Nagar, Bazaran Mohalla and one from Central Post Office, Bagga Kalan. Health department officials said till now 2,833 patients from Ludhiana district and 410 from outside have tested positive. They said on Tuesday, 680 samples were sent for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-19-6-of-dist-die-all-had-comorbidities/articleshow/77227013.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Lucknow||Mercury drops as clouds pour relief on Lucknow||LUCKNOW: Intermittent light rains turned the weather pleasant in the city on Tuesday, providing relief from the sultry conditions prevailing for the past few days. Overcast sky and rains led to drop in the mercury level by five degrees during the day in comparison to Monday. Around 5mm rainfall was recorded. Partly cloudy sky with one or two spells of rains is expected till Friday. The rains in the city have been 24% below normal so far this monsoon. Against the normal of 286.8mm, total rainfall has been 218.7mm. The ongoing spell is expected to improve the score. State Met director JP Gupta said the monsoon trough is shifting towards UP and will bring rainfall across the state. The monsoon trough is an extended low pressure area that causes precipitation in the region under it. The eastern and central UP districts will receive more rains than the western region. Lucknow will also receive light to moderate rainfall, he added. The state Met department also issued warning of heavy rainfall with thunderstorm and lightning for several districts on Wednesday. These districts include Shravasti, Balrampur, Bahraich, Lakhimpur Kheri, Pilibhit, Moradabad, Bijnor, Muzaffarnagar, Saharanpur, Banda, Hamirpur, Jhansi, Jalaun, Kanpur Nagar, Kanpur Dehat, Auraiya and Kannauj. Overall, UP has received normal rains so far since June 1. However, a close look reveals that western parts are reeling under deficit. Average per district rains in west UP has been 197.5mm, which is 33% below normal. In comparison, east UP is far ahead with per district average of 429.2mm rainfall, which is 19% above normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mercury-drops-as-clouds-pour-relief-on-capital/articleshow/77230479.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt tightens noose on private schools||AHMED ABAD: Further tightening its noose on self-financed schools, the government on Monday said that schools that do not have teachers qualified according to the Right To Education (RTE) norms, will face punitive action.The government had set March 2019 as deadline for the schools to follow RTE norms like completion of PTC and BEd studies as eligibility criteria of teachers. Experts say the ongoing stand-off between the government and self-financed schools brought about the new twist in the government’s approach. The district education officer (DEO), Ahmedabad has issued a circular in this regard to all schools. The state government recently issued a directive to the schools to not collect fees for the time the schools have been shut since March 16 due to Covid-19 lockdown. The government notification said that the Gujarat Self-Financed School Management Association had on June 26 clearly denied to give any relief to the students in their fees. “Hence, through the notification, the government has decided in the larger public interest that the self-financed schools will not be allowed to collect any type of tuition fees for the period from when they were physically closed till when they were physically re-opened,” the notification stated. Soon after this decision, the schools had last week shut down online classes and many began an online campaign to oppose the government’s decision. In response, the government came up with a notification that it will provide free online classes for school students. While self-financed schools resumed the online classes from Monday, they continue to oppose the government’s decision and many of them have also challenged it in the Gujarat high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-tightens-noose-on-private-schools/articleshow/77207216.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: EOW begins probe into Rs 11 crore cheating case||MUMBAI: The city economic offences wing (EOW) has begun a probe into a case where 78 depositors were cheated of Rs 11 crore by promising them more than12% annual returns by a brokerage firm and its office-bearers. An officer said Goregaon resident Rajesh Shah (45) lodged a complaint with Matunga police for breach of trust, cheating and criminal conspiracy under IPC. Sections of the stringent Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors’ (MPID) Act were also invoked. “The accused, through R H Associate, collected deposits from gullible depositors from October 2016. Initially, they gave returns and gained trust,” said a source. In 2020, they stopped giving returns, so a police case was filed. Some of those named in the FIR are partners and office-bearers Hasmukh Gogoari, Dilesh Vira, Ramanik Dedhia, Mukesh Chedda, Pankaj Chheda, Khushal Chheda, Hemant Chheda and Jayesh Dedhia. No arrest has been made so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/eow-begins-probe-into-rs11cr-cheating-case/articleshow/77228558.cms||Mateen Hafeez
July 29, 2020||Jaipur||Two drown in separate cases in Barmer district||JAISALMER: Two persons drowned in two different incidents in Barmer district. After many hours of search and rescue operation, the bodies were taken out with the help of divers and SDRF team. A 60-year-old man committed suicide by jumping into a well in Garal village. Rescue operation went on for 10 hours. Help of waterproof CCTV was taken to trace the body. Body was taken out on Tuesday evening. In another incident, a youth drowned in a pond of Haldeshwar Mahadev temple under Siwana police station area on Monday. The body was taken out after 19 hours on Tuesday. SDRF team from Jodhpur was called. According to information, Kartaram (60) jumped into the well which was 200ft deep. His body was found at 150ft depth in the water. The body was handed over to the family members after post-mortem on Tuesday. Family members said that Kirtaram was tense since last one month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-drown-in-separate-cases-in-barmer-dist/articleshow/77229736.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Mangaluru||Uncertainty over fishing ops from August 1||MANGALURU/ UDUPI: Uncertainty shrouds resumption of deep-sea fishing off Karnataka coast with the 47-day fishing holiday ending on July 31. To tide over the situation, fishermen representatives and stakeholders in DK will meet on Wednesday to decide the future course of action. Their Udupi counterparts have already decided on their strategy during a meeting on July 20. Representatives of purse seine boat owners and other stakeholders will take a call on resuming fishing from August 1 at this meeting, Nitin Kumar, president, Mangaluru Trawl Boat Owners’ Association, said. Around 4,000 workers on 1,200 fishing boats are migrant labourers from Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal and Jharkhand. Noting that the fisheries department may extend the current fishing holiday due to Covid-19, Nitin said that it will be the duty of stakeholders to adhere to SOP to ensure Covid-free fishing operations. The meeting will explore the feasibility of postponing the operations by some more days. Around 900 of the 1,200 boats are trawl boats with a crew complement of 8-10 members spending around 10 to 11 days in deep-sea fishing, he said. The 100-odd purse seiners with a crew complement of 25-30 fishermen are daily runners who return with their catch at the end of the day. The 200 other mechanized boats which have a crew complement of up to five fishermen are out at sea for a maximum of three days and fish in shallow waters, he explained. The Malpe Meenugarara Sangha, parent organisation that oversees activities of 22 other organisations under it at Malpe harbour, has placed the onus on owners of all mechanised boats to ensure implementation of SOP. Sangha president Krishna Suvarna said they cannot and will not stop fishing boats venturing out for fishing from August 1 nor will it come to the aid of fishing boat owners if their crew test positive. “Udupi DC G Jagadeesha has informally said that he will be forced to seal down the harbour if positive cases are reported at the harbour. In such a case, the boat owner will not be is a position to unload the catch and this will only compound the financial losses . This decision, taken at a meeting on July 20, has been communicated to all those concerned,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/uncertainty-over-fishing-ops-from-aug-1/articleshow/77227041.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Resume drunk driving checks soon, social activists tell police||Coimbatore: Social activists are mounting pressure on police to resume drunk driving checks, which came to an abrupt stop following the Covid-19 outbreak. Police had registered 3,491 drunk driving cases from January to March 15, before the checking was stopped as police were wary of going very close to motorists. Activists are now suggesting police to take motorists, who they suspect to be under the influence of alcohol, to government hospital for blood test. The city police have more than 50 breath analysers to detect if a motorist is drunk or not and the alcohol level. To control the spread of Covid-19 among the police personnel, they were on March 16 instructed to stop the usage of breath analysers. R Mutharasu, city deputy commissioner of police (traffic), says, “It is too risky to ask motorists to blow the device. If any motorist is infected with Covid-19, the cop who is handling the device and other cops in the team would be at the risk of contracting the virus. So, we have stopped drunk driving checks.” In 2019, the city police had registered 16,451 drunk driving cases. This year’s case details, he said, have been sent to respective courts as we don’t collect fine from drunk motorists. Courts normally imposes a fine of Rs10,000 for drunk driving. A police source said vehicle movement has increased in the city as the government has relaxed the lockdown. Pointing out that people have started driving under the influence of alcohol, activists said, that might lead to more fatal accidents in the city. “Police should take suspected cases to the government hospital and test them to know whether they are under the influence of alcohol.” Sumit Sharan, city police commissioner, said they would start using breath analysers to catch drunk motorists once the Covid-19 spread is controlled. Ara Arularasu, district superintendent of police, said the rural police have been booking at least four drunk driving cases a day. “Cops are taking motorists, who they think are in an inebriated condition, to nearby government hospitals for testing. If results show that the alcohol level is higher than permissible levels, we book them and forward the details to courts for further action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/resume-drunk-driving-checks-soon-social-activists-tell-police/articleshow/77229718.cms||A Subburaj
July 29, 2020||Rajkot||File complaints on email & phone, says Rajkot CP||Rajkot: With coronavirus cases crossing 1,000-mark in Rajkot city, the city police commissioner Manoj Agarwal has appealed to citizens to avoid coming to police stations. Instead, he has urged people to filed complaints through email or over phone, to avoid spread of the virus.On Tuesday, the city police made public their official email ID and mobile numbers of police inspectors of all police stations for the citizen. The details were made public through Rajkot police’s social media handles like Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Citizens also have option to register their complaint using these social media platforms. The police has asked people to use the citizens’ portal for filing applications for missing person, senior citizen registration, servant registration, obtaining NOC etc. Talking to TOI Agarwal said that arrangements have been made for contact-less complaint filing process at police stations. “We have sanitize all the police stations of Rajkot. If anybody visits the police station they won’t come in direct contact with the police station in-charge. The in-charge at all police stations have been given a glass cabin where they can interact with complainant using a microphone.” “A complainant’s signature is required in FIR as per law. An arrangement has been made so that the print of FIR is received by the complainant who signs it and drops it in a box. The FIR copy will be take out of the box after 12 hours,” he added. The cops have also been asked to record statements using video calls wherever possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/file-complaints-on-email-phone-says-rajkot-cp/articleshow/77227037.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Kanpur||SIT to begin probe into role of police in Bikru incident||Kanpur:The Special Investiation Team (SIT) is all set to probe the ‘connivance’ of all 68 cops of Chaubeypur police station, who were shunted to Police Lines on July 8 after the Bikru incident. The SHO of the police station Vinay Tiwari and beat in charge KK Sharma hade already been suspended and sent to jail for fleeing the crime spot, putting lives of other policemen in danger during the raid at Bikru village on July 2 & 3. To recall, the state government had recently announced a SIT) to probe local police’s ‘connivance’ with slain gangster Vikas Dubey. The SIT , being headed by Additional Chief Secretary Sanjay Bhoosreddy, will submit its report by July 31. All the documents related to the 68 policemen had been dispatched to the office of SIT at Bapu Bhawan in Lucknow, informed a senior police official while talking to TOI. “Now all the 68 policemen will now be called upon by SIT to get their statement recorded,” official said further. The SIT has also been asked to find out what action was taken in the cases lodged against Dubey. Dubey was killed on July 10 morning by Special Task Force when he allegedly tried to escape after snatching a handgun of a police officer when the vehicle carrying him overturned. Police sources had informed that the investigation found that majority of policemen of Chaubeypur police station had leaked information about the raid to Dubey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/sit-to-begin-probe-into-role-of-police-in-bikru-incident/articleshow/77229723.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Bhopal||Advocate held in Pyare Mian case||Bhopal: Shyamla Hills police investigating the forgery case registered against rape accused Pyare Mian and his family members on Tuesday arrested an advocate, who allegedly forged signatures of fake society members and submitted fake audit reports of the society at the registrar office. He was made a co-accused in the case. SP (South) Sai Krishna S Thota said that accused advocate, Sahabuddin Jamali alias Ashi, (39), a resident of Jinsi in Jehangirabad, was made co-accused in the forgery case registered against Pyare Mian and his family members at Shyamla Hills police station. Police arrested him and seized his computer in which he used to make forged audit reports. Notably, on July 24, Shyamla Hills police booked Pyare Mian and his family, including two wives and a son on charges of fraud for allegedly forging papers to register a resident welfare society and then renting the terrace of an apartment to a telecom company for putting up their mobile tower. The accused received Rs60 lakh as rent from the telecom company since 2011. They did not spend a single penny on society works and submitted forged audit reports at the registrar office using forges signatures. The action was taken on the basis of a complaint filed by S N Singh, who is the president of Lake View Enclave Apartment Welfare Association. He had filed a complaint with police on July 16 against Lake View Enclave Apartment Welfare Society formed by Pyare Mian.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/advocate-held-in-pyare-mian-case/articleshow/77228552.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Ajmer||Gangwar claimed life of ex-youth Congress chief||AJMER: The murder of former Congress youth president Vikram Sharma on July 22 was the outcome of land mafia gang war. Police on Tuesday arrested two persons for aiding the crime and are now looking for the shooters who were hired from outside Rajasthan. Police also seized the two-wheelers used in the crime. Sharma was shot outside his residence at BK Kaul Nagar. He sustained 8 bullet wounds and was declared dead when he was brought to a hospital. Vikram was involved in real estate business. Police said they arrested Mohit Soni (30), a resident of Ganj area, and Chandresh Soni (37), a resident of Chorasiyawas Road, for their involevement in the crime. They followed Sharma July 15 and provided a hiding place, food and a two wheeler to the shooters. There was a history of gang war between Dharmendra Choudhary and Ramkesh group and both were murdered in Ajmer after a shootout. Varun Choudhary headed the Dharmendra group and was waiting for Sharma as there were several gang wars between these two groups. Police claimed that they collected evidence from different CCTV cameras installed on roadsides or at residences of nearby houses. After the murder, police deputed 16 personnel to investigate the crime with 13 cyber specialists to collect evidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/gangwar-claimed-life-of-ex-youth-cong-chief/articleshow/77229724.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Nagpur||Testing, treatment delay in 1.7k cases belie admin readiness for 12k||Nagpur: Two months ago, the administration had claimed preparedness for testing and treatment of Covid-19 positive patients, and quarantining of their high-risk contacts even if 12,000 cases were registered in the district in a day. Currently, there are only 1,700 positive cases. Yet, the administration has failed to provide admission, treatment of positive patients and testing of their high-risk contacts for 4-5 days. In a hush-hush fashion, the administration went on to implement home quarantine of high-risk contacts and home isolation of positive patients within a span of four days. On July 21, a Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) fire station in-charge had tested positive for Covid-19. It took two days for the civic body to take swab samples and test the officer’s close contacts all of who are its employees. Of the total 100 staffers, 16 had tested positive on July 24. It also took four days for the NMC to admit 14 of total 16 employees in Dedicated Covid Hospital (DCH) and Covid Care Centre (CCC). Two employees were admitted in GMCH and remaining 12 employees at VNIT and Pachpaoli CCCs on Monday evening. Two employees, including in-charge of a fire station, were still at home till the time this report was filed. This is what the officer told TOI: “ “I am asymptomatic but cannot isolate myself at home as there are 10 family members residing with me. Despite my requests, I was not admitted to a hospital. My family members too were not tested. I went to a private laboratory to get tests of my family members done.” Since July 23, TOI has been reporting about the delay in admission of positive patients by 1-2 days. As on Tuesday, the district had 1,706 active cases. The office of commissioner of health services, Mumbai, in letters dated April 13 sent to all collectors and commissioners of municipal corporations in the state, had projected peak of Covid-19 in mid-May and asked to prepare facilities for testing, admission and treatment. 18,902 cases — 11,114 in city and 7,788 in rural — in 10 days was predicted in the district. The state government had approved funds to tackle the crisis too. Works on a large scale were undertaken and the administration — Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), collector office, IGGMCH, GMCH — had claimed facilities for 12,000 patients in a day in May. All of them mentioned that totally, 2,600 beds were available at GMCH, IGGMCH, two trust-run and central government-run hospitals each. Claims were also made that over 10,000 could be accommodated in CCCs and quarantine centres. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar said there have been no lapses in testing and treatment. “Cases are on steep rise so we implemented home isolation and home quarantine as per guidelines of the government which were approved two months ago,” he said. Kumar added that 90% positive patients are “asymptomatic who can be isolated in homes and recover under supervision of administration”. “We have provided facility of CCCs and people who do not wish for home isolation can get treatment here. Also, we have provided facility of CCCs in private hotels for those who can afford it,” he said. Mayor Sandip Joshi said the decision for home isolation should not have been taken especially as there are only 1,700 cases. “Officials had claimed for capacity up to 5,000. Where are those facilities? Who will be responsible in case of no monitoring on home isolation and increase in cases,” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/testing-treatment-delay-in-1-7k-cases-belie-admin-readiness-for-12k/articleshow/77228589.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Online classes back on track||Ahmedabad: Tension and anxiety gave way to smiles on the faces of parents and schoolchildren on Monday as city schools resumed online classes after a three-day hiatus. The development comes even as the stand-off between the schools and Gujarat government continues on the matter of fee collection during the Covid-19 lockdown period.Rakshit Dubey, a Class IX student, says,” This sudden hurdle made us fear we’d lose this means to continue learning. But I am happy that classes have resumed.” Another student, Ishani Joshi, Class VII, adds, “Online classes ensure that our day ends without boredom. This gap made me realize the importance of online connection with schools.” Manini Shah, another student of Class IX says, “I was scared that our studies will be stopped. But I am happy to learn that my school was equally concerned about my future and decided to start classes again. Now, the government should withdraw its decision.”The joy was no less among the parents. “It was a delight to see my children back in their academic routine. I am thankful to the school for giving children’s future priority over the ongoing tussle,” says Sushma Bansal, a parent of two. Another parent, Mona Shah, says, “I was greatly concerned when informed that online classes are being stopped. School connect is crucial to maintain academic rhythm. Schools also understood the connection and I am glad for the amazing decision they have taken.” Mahesh Dani, a parent adds, “Is it possible for the government of Gujarat to provide quality education to my child? Private schools are there only because the government has failed on this front completely.”Talking to TOI, Archit Bhatt, president of Ahmedabad Schools Progressive Management Association, says, “Schools have resumed online classes keeping in mind the academic interests of the students. We are waiting for the decision of honourable high court and have assured teachers that we will do our best to safeguard their interests.” He added, “The government should come forward and pay the salaries of all educators and support them as it is a survival issue for them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/online-classes-back-on-track/articleshow/77207270.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Kanpur||Cops to attach property of Vikas Dubey’s bro||Kanpur: Police are all set to attach the property of Deep Prakash Dubey, brother of slain gangster Vikas Dubey. For this very purpose, police have moved an application in the court to seek permission for attaching Deep’s properties. Deep is absconding since the incident occurred. “Deep has not presented himself before police despite being asked to do so. He is absconding. We have moved an application in the court to seek permission for attaching his property. Once we receive this permission, we shall take the due step,” said a police official. Sarla Devi, mother of slain gangster Vikas Dubey had urged her younger son Deep Prakash Dubey to not run and come out of hiding and surrender before police otherwise, he and his family will be killed. Police have announced a reward of Rs 20,000 for any information that could lead to the arrest of Deep Prakash Dubey. He along with 11 other accused has been absconding since the Kanpur ambush wherein eight policemen were killed and five others including a civilian injured on July 2 & 3 night. Sarla Devi had conveyed plea to her younger son through media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/cops-to-attach-property-of-vikas-dubeys-bro/articleshow/77229777.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Rajkot||Anavils set up isolation centre||Surat: After Patidars, one more community has come forward to start an isolation centre for Covid-19 patients. On Tuesday, the Anavil community started an isolation centre Shri Dayalji Anavil Kelvani Mandal at Majura Gate with a 25-bed facility. Municipal Commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani and mayor Dr. Jagdish Patel inagurated the community isolation centre. “This 25-bed centre has adequate oxygen facilities as well. We have a huge space at the ashram spread over 17 bigha land in the middle of the city. We have told SMC that if required, we can add more beds,” Ketan Naik, president, Shri Dayalji Anavil Kelvani Mandal told TOI. Many communities have set up isolation centres in the city to lessen burden on hospitals and for those who don’t have separate space at home for isolation. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/anavils-set-up-isolation-centre/articleshow/77227061.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Jaipur||1 held for killing guard in Sariska Tiger Reserve||ALWAR/JAIPUR: Alwar police arrested one person accused of killing a forest home guard inside Sariska Tiger Reserve on Sunday after he along with his colleague attempted to stop suspected members of the mining mafia from smuggling bajri. The accused has been identified as 25-year-old Lala Ram. Tejaswini Gautam, SP, Alwar said, “Based on intelligence from sources, we arrested the accused who had mowed down a forest guard. The forest guard along with colleague saw three tractors being filled with bajri and being illegally transported out of the reserve. When they tried to stop them, while two tractor drivers managed to flee, the accused ran over the guard who suffered fatal injuries.” After receiving information about the accused driver, cops in plainclothes started searching the nearby areas following which Lala Ram was arrested. On Sunday, Keval Singh along with his colleague went for patrolling in Baldevgarh check-post area of the tiger reserve where they saw some people illegally transporting bajri from the area. When they tried to stop them, the persons mowed down the guard with a tractor. According to officials, the arrested person would steal the bajri from the reserve and take it outside. Police are questioning him to get further details into the nexus. The area is notorious for villagers attacking forest officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1-held-for-killing-guard-in-sariska/articleshow/77229781.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 10-year-old boy goes missing from house in Baran, search on||KOTA: A 10-year-old boy went missing from his house late on Monday night in Kherkhedabura village under Bapcha police station of Baran. The boy was reportedly playing games on his father’s mobile phone on the fateful night when his parents retired to bed. Police lodged a case in this connection on Tuesday morning and launched a hunt to trace the boy. The mobile phone was also missing along with the boy and was switched off. “The boy, who is a Class III student, was identified as Rameshwar Lodha, son of Parvat Singh, a resident of Kherkhedabura village,” said Harlal Meena, SHO, Bapcha police station. The boy was sleeping with his parents on Monday night when the incident occurred, he added. “According to the parents, the boy had retired to bed with them in the same room on Monday night. He continued to play games on his father’s mobile phone till 12 o’clock while the parents fell asleep,” he said. When the parents woke up at 5am on Tuesday morning, they found the boy missing, he added. On a report by the parents, police lodged a case under relevant sections and initiated search for the boy, the SHO further said. Efforts are underway to trace the location of the mobile phone where it was switched off. The relatives and friends of the boy are being contacted to know his whereabouts, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/10-yr-old-boy-goes-missing-from-house-in-baran-search-on/articleshow/77229765.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: School van drivers now work as farm hands||PUNE: With schools unlikely to open anytime soon, many migrant workers who used to drive school vans in the city are without any job for the past four-five months. While many of them are returning to the city with the hope of finding work, Akshay Patole (28) and his brother Akash (26) -- school van drivers until a few months back -- have no such plans. “After the closure of schools due to the pandemic, we tried hard to look for jobs in Pune but couldn’t find any. So, we headed home,” said Akshay. Both the brother currently work as farm hands at Khamaswadi village in Osmanabad district. “I used to earn Rs12,000 a month as a school van driver and Akash used to earn Rs11,000. After schools closed, we were left without jobs. We exhausted our savings in a few days and didn’t have money to pay rent. I have two children and my brother got married recently,” he said. The Patoles booked a 17-seater bus, took whatever they could and headed home paying Rs11,000 to the driver. “Now, we work as daily wagers on farms and earn Rs200 to Rs250 per day,” said Akshay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/school-van-drivers-now-work-as-farm-hands/articleshow/77229770.cms||Joy Sengupta
July 29, 2020||Pune||Man killed, 3 others injured in collision of motorcycles on Pune-Solapur highway||PUNE: One person was killed and three others were injured in a collision between two motorcycles near a hotel at Manjri Budruk on Pune-Solapur highway on Sunday night. Neither the deceased, nor the injured persons were wearing helmets. Police have identified the deceased as Raju Sawant (24) from Hadapsar. The injured persons are Kiran Jagtap (21) from Hadapsar, and Ajay Ghadge (21) and Sudarshan Ghadge (20) from Phursungi. Assistant inspector Hemachandra Khopade from the Hadapsar police on Tuesday said, “Sawant was heading towards his residence at Vaiduwadi in Wanowrie on motorcycle after attending a marriage ceremony at Chaufula. Jagtap was riding pillion.” The assistant inspector said, “Ajay Ghadge, riding on another bike in high speed. was heading to Kavdipat toll naka from Shewalwadi in Hadapsar. His friend, Sudarshan, was riding pillion. Ajay lost control over the vehicle and hit Sawant’s motorcycle while crossing a chowk at Manjri Budruk.” Khopade said, “Sawant was critically injured in the crash and the three others suffered injuries. Sawant later succumbed to injuries while undergoing treatment in a private hospital. Ajay is recuperating in a hospital. Jagtap and Sudarshan escaped with minor injuries.” The police officer said investigations revealed that Sawant and Jagtap had stopped at a shop for exchanging currency note for change. They later took a turn from the chowk, when Ajay’s bike crashed into their motorcycle. Both the vehicles were severely damaged. Jagtap lodged an FIR against Ajay under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Motor Vehicles Act, Khopade added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-killed-3-others-injured-in-collision-of-motorcycles/articleshow/77229746.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Eateries flout rules, remain open beyond allowed time||LUDHIANA: In a city where coronavirus cases are rising sharply, eateries are flouting rules by keeping shops open after 9pm and serving food in cars and even allowing walk-ins. On Monday, TOI did a reality check in the city and found a large number of food outlets open after the permissible time limit of 9pm. At several joints, a large number of cars and bikes were spotted and people were seen consuming food inside their vehicles. Some people were even seen inside the outlets. At some spots, the servers were seen attending to guests without gloves and there was a rush of customers at cash counters. Around 9pm when they should be winding up, the outlets were seen serving customers. When TOI lensman started clicking pictures of four food outlets under the Dhuri line bridge, several customers and staff got together and asked him to delete them. Some unidentified persons started dropping names of other mediapersons and police officers, and when they failed to convince him, they threatened him. PCR officers present at the spot had to intervene to control the situation. All the shops soon started shutting down and within a few minutes, the entire market was closed. Some customers left without paying their bills. After this, the team surveyed Sarabha Nagar around 9.30pm, and found that though the main market was closed, cops were getting shutters of several nearby food outlets down. Two outlets — an ice-cream joint and a sweetmeat shop — were open and after the photojournalist clicked the pictures, some unknown persons in an SUV followed his bike and constantly kept asking him to stop. But when he reached near a PCR picket, the SUV fled. Speaking to the TOI, deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said, “As per existing guidelines, after 9pm no outlet is allowed to open, for dine-in or delivery. Police have been asked to take strict action against the violators and those visiting these outlets after allowed time too should stop the practice.” Chew on this As per rules, the closing time of shops, restaurants, food outlets and all other establishments is 9pm It’s mandatory for the staff to wear masks and observe social distancing rules Restaurants are allowed to open with 50% occupancy Liquor can be served, provided the restaurant has a valid permission from the excise department. However, bars will remain closed Restaurants in hotels are allowed to serve food, including buffet meals, to up to 50% of their seating capacity. These restaurants will also be open to persons other than hotel guests, but bars will remain closed. However, liquor can be served in the rooms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/eateries-flout-rules-remain-open-beyond-allowed-time/articleshow/77227057.cms||Mohit Behl
July 29, 2020||Rajkot||Two-year-old Jamnagar twins get new parents in Delhi couple||Rajkot: The gloom caused by the Covid-19 pandemic was drowned in cheers and smiles at Jamnagar’s Kasturba Stree Vikas Gruh (KSVG) on Tuesday.In what is probably the first adoption after June, a Delhi-based couple adopted two twins — a boy and a girl — from the facility. A small function with social distancing was organized to celebrate the event at the orphanage. The twins, Bharat and his sister Bharati, who turned two in March, were adopted by Amit Shrivastav and his wife Archana. Shrivastav is a vice-president in a private company while Archana is a clinical psychologist.Karsan Dangar, trustee of KSVG, said, “After five months, this is the first case of adoption here. The process is managed centrally and we followed the order. We conducted Covid-19 test for both children and submitted the report in court along with other documents.” The couple was waiting for the adoption for the past two years. Talking to TOI, Shrivastava said, “We were concerned about Covid situation but Jamnagar had less cases in the initial stage when we were approached by the agency. We were eagerly waiting for the past two years, so there was no question of saying no.” He said, “We too had done our Covid-19 tests before starting from Delhi.” “We wanted two children to complete our family. We had applied for one child but when we came to know that two children are there to be adopted as they are twins, it was like a bumper draw for us,” added Shrivastav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-year-old-jamnagar-twins-get-new-parents-in-delhi-couple/articleshow/77227114.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
July 29, 2020||Mumbai||IPS officer Santosh Rastogi to shift to NIA||Mumbai: Union home ministry on Monday wrote to the Maharashtra government to relieve IPS officer Santosh Rastogi of state government charges as he was to be appointed as inspector general with National Investigating Agency (NIA) on deputation. Rastogi, an IPS officer of 1998 batch, who was joint commissioner (crime) of Mumbai Police, was last month transferred to Delhi as additional resident commissioner of Maharashtra Sadan in New Delhi. He completed a year in May as joint commissioner of police (crime). He was also joint commissioner of police (administration) for nearly a year. Sources said Rastogi requested a transfer to Delhi. The home department is yet to announce his replacement. Under him, crime branch arrested fugitive gangster Ejaz Lakdawala, wanted in several extortion cases. Crime branch had also arrested Dawood Ibrahim’s nephew (Iqbal Kaskar’s son) Mohammed Rizwan Iqbal Hassan Kaskar from Mumbai international airport while trying to flee to Dubai. He was also instrumental in arresting Dawood aide Tariq Parveen and police informer Salim Maharaj. Several cheating and forgery cases were also cracked by crime branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ips-officer-santosh-rastogi-to-shift-to-nia/articleshow/77228562.cms||Ahmed Ali
July 29, 2020||Ludhiana||Deputy mayor, husband at loggerheads with mayor over ration||LUDHIANA: The deputy mayor, Sarabjit Kaur, and her husband Jarnail Singh Singh Shimlapuri are once again hogging the limelight, this time for raising the issue of ‘non distribution of ration’ against their own party mayor, though they had been asked to provide a list of beneficiaries. They wrote letters to cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Sunil Jakhar and several other leaders in the party. While Sarabjit claimed that she and her husband, who is a president of a block in south constituency, were being victimised due to internal party politics, Congress leaders and her rivals in south constituency claimed Shimlapuri was desirous of getting prime position in the constituency, so he is adopting such tactics to remain in the news. A controversy had risen earlier when the deputy mayor had written a letter to the Congress high command, complaining against mayor Balkar Sandhu that the latter was not treating her husband properly and even she was being ignored. However, that dispute had ended when the mayor personally visited the deputy mayor and her husband and sorted out the issues. But once again they are in news for their letter. This time they have alleged that they did not get ration for distribution, whereas the nodal officer in the area had demanded a list of beneficiaries from them.s While talking about the issue, deputy mayor Sarabjit Kaur said, “We did not interfere in the ongoing ration distribution programme going on under the aegis of the state government as we only wanted that the ration reached the poor, instead of getting involved in politics over ration like other leaders did during lockdown. But recently my husband got a call from area officer that ration had come for distribution in ward number 35 from where I am the councillor and he asked for the list of beneficiaries. We prepared a list of 1,500 people and sent it to the person concerned, who again informed about arrival of ration in the area.” She said the residents who were supposed to get ration also came to their office but even after waiting for almost an entire day no ration was made available. She said residents were now blaming and accusing them of taking away their ration. The deputy mayor said they have always tried to help the poor but this incident had damaged their image and this had been done intentionally. Meanwhile, requesting anonymity one of the Congress leaders from south constituency said, “Actually, Jarnail Singh Shimlapuri had desire to contest as MLA from south constituency in 2017, but he was not given a chance. Besides, his wife was made deputy mayor after the MC elections. He wants to become in-charge of this constituency and his relations are not very cordial with the present in-charge of this constituency.” He said these letters were being sent intentionally to gain popularity and to remain in the notice of senior leaders. But when contacted Shimlapuri dismissed such claims. “"We are raising only those issues which are important. We have no personal interests in ration distribution and other things. Some politics is going against us in the constituency and we are only fighting against it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/deputy-mayor-husband-at-loggerheads-with-mayor-over-ration/articleshow/77228586.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: SSC results to be declared at 1pm||MUMBAI: The last in the season this year, SSC (Secondary School Certificate, Class X) results will be announced at 1pm today. Over 18 lakh students who appeared for the exams can check results on www.mahresult.nic.inMaharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) conducted the exam in February and March. The last paper, Geography, scheduled for March 23, was cancelled due to Covid-19. Students will be awarded average marks they have scored in other papers for the subject. Nearly four lakh students took the exam from Mumbai division, consisting of Mumbai, Palghar, Raigad and Thane. In the state’s nine divisions, around 65,000 more than last year appeared. In 2019, SSC results were hit and the state saw the lowest success rate since 2006 as internal exams were scrapped. The 20-mark internal marking system of language and social studies subjects came back this year. “The results are a reflection of the year-long efforts students have put in and I want to wish them all the best for their future,” said education minister Varsha Gaikwad in a video message on twitter. After results are announced, students can apply at  http://verification.mh-ssc.ac.in for re-counting of scores between July 30-August 8. Students can request photocopies of answer-sheets between July 30-August 18 on the board’s official site. Once students receive the photocopy, they can apply for re-evaluation or re-assessment within five days. Fees have to be paid online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ssc-results-to-be-declared-at-1pm/articleshow/77231824.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Lucknow||Only timely construction of grand Ram temple on our agenda now: VHP||With construction of Ram Temple scheduled to kickstart on August 5 with ‘Bhoomipujan’ of the Ramjanmabhoomi site in Ayodhya, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad, which spearheaded the movement, watches closely. Its national working president Alok Kumar tells Pankaj Shah that a grand temple would symbolise emancipation of Hindu faith which remained crushed for years by a few vested interests. Kumar said that the development of the proposed temple would pave way for development of Ayodhya as a prominent cultural hotspot for millions of Hindus the world over. Q: Finally, the construction of Ram temple is set to begin with bhoomipujan on August 5. Do you think that the target of VHP has been achieved?A: I believe the target was achieved when the Supreme Court delivered its verdict in favour of the Ram temple. The proposed construction of a grand temple is the rejuvenation of the Hindu society which has been marred by domination of a few vested interests. It is the mark of emancipation of Hindus who have been struggling for the cause for nearly 500 years. We now have to move further and see that construction of Ram temple picks up pace and gets completed in the next 3 to 3.5 years. Q: Do you think that Ram temple would continue to be at the epicentre of politics like it has been for years? Or, is it the end of it?A: It would no longer be at the centre of agenda of any political party now. The Ram temple movement has forced all political parties to respect Hindu sentiments and faith. We would like the temple to be a symbol of national importance to be projected beyond politics of a party. Q: How do you plan to showcase construction of Ram temple as a beacon of Hindu aspiration and faith?A: It has been a long drawn battle which VHP fought for years. Finally, we have managed to awaken the soul of Hindus. The inferiority complex that had gripped the Hindu society for decades has now gone. Hindus are no more seized but are now free to project their aspirations before the world. And that’s exactly what we would talk of and continue to motivate the Hindu society for in due course of time. Q: What are VHP’s plans? Are Kashi and Mathura on the agenda?A: Only timely construction of a grand Ram temple is on our agenda. We have been and would continue to strive for it till we achieve the goal. There is no other agenda for the VHP as of now. I repeat. There is nothing else on our agenda. Q: What about development of Ayodhya as a whole?A: While the massive Ram temple will be the centre of attraction for the whole world, the city of Ayodhya will be and should be developed as a great pilgrimage centre. We hope that the state government would understand the socio-cultural-religious ethos of the city and develop it accordingly. We assume that Ayodhya would be the next tourist hotspot. Q: Do you see any challenge from here as far as the timely construction of Ram temple is concerned?A: All challenges saw an end when the apex court delivered its verdict in November. We hope that a grand temple would be constructed timely and as per the expectation of Hindus across the world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/only-timely-construction-of-grand-ram-temple-on-our-agenda-now-vhp/articleshow/77230502.cms||Pankaj Shah
July 29, 2020||Udaipur||Varsity inks pact with research body to boost farming of spices||UDAIPUR: Maharana Pratap University for Agriculture and Technology (MPUAT), Udaipur has entered into an agreement with National Research Centre on Seed Spices (NRCSS) Ajmer to promote spice farming in the state. MPUAT V-C Narendra Singh Rathore and director of NRCSS, Ajmer Gopal Lal signed the MoU on Monday. “Collaboration, co-ordination and co-operation is essential for growth of an institution. Rajasthan is recognized for production and export of spices at the international level. The university is extending its scope of work for the benefit of the students and farmer community,” Rathore said. The MoU aims at strengthening of research & extension activities in seed spice, promote lecture series, strengthen research, encourage organic farming and good agricultural practises for seed spices. It collaboration also aims to promote processing of seed spices like biscuits of methi with and without sugar/salt, quality protein maize and fenugreek biscuits etc. It is also expected to enhance mechanization in seed spice farming. Lal said, “Spices production denotes specialty farming and provide a good opportunity for tribal areas. It would work to enhance the income of farmers by spice farming and also provide a new opportunity to promising farmers in southern Rajasthan as well as dissemination of technologies through KVKs.” He further said since last 20 years area and production of spices in Rajasthan increased significantly and export increased more than four times, yet there is a lot of scope of standardization of spices for daily intake need to be taken up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/varsity-inks-pact-with-research-body-to-boost-farming-of-spices/articleshow/77229799.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Vadodara||Driver booked for giving triple talaq to wife||VADODARA: A driver living in Gorwa was booked for divorcing his wife by saying ‘talaq’ nine times as per the tradition of their community. Besides being booked under Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, the driver Jabir Hussain Sheikh (26) has also been accused of cruelty and criminal intimidation by his wife Azimabanu (25). In her police complaint, Azimabanu stated that everything was fine between her and Jabir for a year after their marriage in December 2015. Later, she became suspicious that Jabir was having an extra-marital affair. Azimabanu alleged that when she told her mother-in-law Sehrajbanu, she assured her that Jabir will correct himself. However, when Azimabanu confronted Jabir, he became furious and broke her phone. Soon, Jabir resorted to violence and verbal altercations. Police said that Azimabanu continued tolerating mental and physical harassment as she did not want to ruin her three-year-old daughter’s future. But on July 20, during heated arguments between the couple, Jabir uttered ‘talaq’ nine times and asked her to leave him. Azimabanu then moved to her parents’ house in Wadi and approached police on Monday with her complaint. Cops said that they have not yet arrested the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/driver-booked-for-giving-triple-talaq-to-wife/articleshow/77227320.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: Theft bid at ATM lands man in cop net||PUNE: A 35-year-old man was arrested on Monday on the charge of theft bid at an ATM kiosk of a public sector bank on Shivaji Road on July 24. Police said the suspect used a screwdriver, but ultimately damaged teh ATM. A team headed by senior inspector Bharat Jadhav of the Khadak police arrested the suspect, Amit Ravindra Bhagyawant (35) of Dapodi, from Tilak Road. Police said Bhagyawant wanted the money to buy liquor. “On July 25, the bank officials found that the CCTV cameras at the ATM kiosk were not functioning. It was then found that somebody had tried to break open the ATM unit. The tin sheet covers of the ATM were found damaged,” Jadhav said. A bank official has filed a complaint with the police. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/theft-bid-at-atm-lands-man-in-cop-net/articleshow/77229806.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Nagpur||40 new Covid patients in Yavatmal||Yavatmal: On the sixth consecutive day, Yavatmal recorded 40 new positive patients. Five of them are from Pusad, three are from Darwha and one is from Digras. Total 16 patients were discharged and 324 are under treatment. Meanwhile, district collector MD Singh has imposed total lockdown on Pusad and Digras till July 31. Earlier, he imposed a lockdown on Yavatmal city, Pandharkawda, Ner and Darwha and the adjoining areas till July 31. Though the shops remained closed, movement of people is going on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/40-new-covid-patients-in-yavatmal/articleshow/77229822.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: SSC results to be declared at 1pm||MUMBAI: The last in the season this year, SSC (Secondary School Certificate, Class X) results will be announced at 1pm today. Over 18 lakh students who appeared for the exams can check results on www.mahresult.nic.inMaharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) conducted the exam in February and March. The last paper, Geography, scheduled for March 23, was cancelled due to Covid-19. Students will be awarded average marks they have scored in other papers for the subject. Nearly four lakh students took the exam from Mumbai division, consisting of Mumbai, Palghar, Raigad and Thane. In the state’s nine divisions, around 65,000 more than last year appeared. In 2019, SSC results were hit and the state saw the lowest success rate since 2006 as internal exams were scrapped. The 20-mark internal marking system of language and social studies subjects came back this year. “The results are a reflection of the year-long efforts students have put in and I want to wish them all the best for their future,” said education minister Varsha Gaikwad in a video message on twitter. After results are announced, students can apply at  http://verification.mh-ssc.ac.in for re-counting of scores between July 30-August 8. Students can request photocopies of answer-sheets between July 30-August 18 on the board’s official site. Once students receive the photocopy, they can apply for re-evaluation or re-assessment within five days. Fees have to be paid online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ssc-results-to-be-declared-at-1pm/articleshow/77228563.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Udaipur||Drip irrigation helps farmers to grow vegetables throughout year||UDAIPUR: Farmers of some 20 villages in remote patches of Jhadol and Phalasiya panchayat samitis (90 kilometre from district headquarters), a part of the Wakal river basin, were once dependent on monsoon for cultivation and used to harvest only one crop in a year. But now they are growing vegetables throughout the year, thanks to drip irrigation. The drip irrigation project was launched here four years ago by a UK-based organization Water Harvest (WH) and NGO Mahan Seva Sansthan working in the area of water conservation. It is a controlled irrigation technique wherein water is allowed to drip slowly to the roots of plants, either from soil surface or buried below the surface, thereby efficiently using water and nutrients. The organization had borne the entire expenses of laying drip systems in the fields. “Some fifty farmers who laid the drip system in their farms, are now growing vegetables throughout the year and making good profits. While many men in these villages who worked as daily wagers in other states, had to return due to the Covid crisis, these farmers and their families remained unaffected by the pandemic. Seeing them, others are inspired to take up farming and quitting labour jobs,” O P Sharma, country director, WH told TOI. During the lockdown period alone, i.e., March to June, the cultivators grew 18,000 kilograms of vegetables and earned Rs 5.40 lakh. Vegetables like tomato, brinjal, lady finger, cluster bean, chilli, onion, potato, cauliflower, peas and leafy vegetables were grown in plenty. “The farmers had advantages during the lockdown as villagers feared to go out to procure vegetables from markets that had become super spreaders of the virus and hence they purchased directly from the neighborhood farms,” Sharma said. Drip irrigation is gaining popularity as power cuts are frequent in the villages and large areas can be covered through less operation hours of the system. It saves water, electricity, labour cost and avoids flooding in the fields. “Earlier, I used to grow grains and pulses once a year in the season and the rest of the months would migrate to other cities to take up menial labour jobs. But after adopting the drip system, I grow veggies throughout the year. I earned Rs 22,000 by cultivating green chillies only during the lockdown period,” Dhamilal Pargi of Kherad village said. In the next stage, the NGOs are expanding the drip project to 500 more farmers in 72 villages. “To set up the drip irrigation system in a farm measuring one bigha, it costs approximately Rs 40,000. We are collaborating with the government of Rajasthan which will bear 70% of the expense, while the remaining would be borne by us,” Sharma informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/drip-irrigation-helps-farmers-to-grow-vegetables-throughout-year/articleshow/77229815.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Jodhpur||Settle claims of 1,052 farmers in Jodhpur: HC to insurance firm||JODHPUR: The high court has directed the Agriculture Insurance Company of India to disburse pending claims to 1,052 farmers of 5 villages of Satlan gram panchayat in Luni of Jodhpur. The court said poor farmers, anguishing years together for payment of insurance, cannot be denied the benefit due to any pending issue between the company, the state government and the bank. A division bench comprising chief justice Indrajit Mahanty and justice Vijay Bishnoi directed the insurance company to release the payment within 4 weeks while hearing a petition by the farmers with a prayer of direction to the company to release the claim amount due for the years 2016 and 2017. According to the petitioners’ counsel Moti Singh Rajpurohit, the farmers had obtained insurance of their crop under Pradhan Mantri Fasal Beema Yojna and had paid their premium through Kissan Credit Cards and Gram Sahkari Sewa Samiti (GSSS) by way of auto debit. “But then, the insurance company did not determine claims to these farmers for the year 2016 and 2017. Then the GSSS sent communication to the Jodhpur Central Cooperative Bank intimating about the matter”, said Rajpurohit. But when GSSS did not receive any response from the bank, the farmers moved high court in 2019 through the sarpanch. “On this petition, the court directed the insurance company in February to determine the total amount of claim due to the farmers. As per the determination, total amount of claim for the year was Rs 81 lakh”, said Rajpurohit, adding that the same for the year 2017 was yet to be determined by as an approximation it was Rs 91 lakh. On Monday, the bench was told by the company that they were not yet in receipt of the subsidy from the state government as well as the premium from the cooperative bank. On this argument, the bench stated that all the respondents comprising the state government, insurance company and the bank should settle the matter among themselves and poor farmers should not suffer due to the pending issue between these 3 parties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/settle-claims-of-1052-farmers-in-jodhpur-hc-to-insurance-firm/articleshow/77229803.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Mysuru||316sqkm area around Kudremukh National Park declared Eco-Sensitive Zone||MYSURU: In a big boost to the efforts to preserve the thick green forests of the Western Ghats of the state, which is considered a part of one of the 34 biodiversity hotspots in the world, the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change has notified 316.6sqkm around the boundary of Kudremukh National Park as Eco-sensitive Zone. In October 2019, the ministry had invited objections for the draft notification. However with not much resistance from the locals and other lobbies, the draft notification now stands finalised. Decades ago, the locals had opposed the formation of Kudremukh National Park citing difficulties for their livelihood. Sanjay Mohan, PCCF and head of forest force, said it is a welcome move. “There was no objection to announcing this area as Eco-sensitive Zone,” he said. G Veeresh, honorary wildlife warden from Chikkamagaluru, said the move will help in the protection of ecology in and around Kudermukh National Park. “Many activities have been banned inside the eco-sensitive zones. This will further ensure the safety of the wildlife,” he said, adding: “There were no objections for this eco-sensitive notification by anyone. It is also a welcome trend.” As per the notification, 51 villages — the highest — coming under the new zone are in Mudigere taluk (Chikkamagalur). “It is good for environment. Its impact on the common man is yet to be ascertained,” said Sudhakar D, a resident of Kottigehara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/316sqkm-area-around-kudremukh-national-park-declared-eco-sensitive-zone/articleshow/77227126.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Pune||4 arrested on 12-year-old’s murder charge||PUNE: Four men were arrested by the Kondhwa police on Tuesday for allegedly murdering a 12-year-old juvenile in conflict with law on a hillock behind Laxminagar at Mohammadwadi on July 10. All the arrested -- Rohit Bansode, Ajay Gaikwad, Shrikant Sathe and Akshay Jadhav -- are in the age group of 20 and 27 years. The Wanowrie police registered a murder case against unidentified men after the victim’s body was recovered with his face and head smashed. A police team led by assistant inspector Chetan More of the Kondhwa police arrested the four suspects following a tip-off. More said, “During questioning, the four told police that they and others had killed the boy for threatening and demanding money from a pan shop owner on numerous occasions.” “Our teams are on the lookout to arrest the two suspects on the run. We have transferred the custody of four men to Wanowrie police for taking action,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-arrested-on-12-year-olds-murder-charge/articleshow/77229796.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Chacha-bhatiji battle social fallout of sata-pata||AHMEDABAD: This uncle and niece are suffering the social fallout of sata-pata, a regressive tradition practised in some communities, where a man and a woman from one family are married to a man and a woman from another. If one marriage breaks, the other has to break irrespective of whether that marriage was healthy! Minal, 30, was bartered for marriage of his uncle Kalu, 35, in Pethapur village of Gandhinagar district. After Minal was abandoned by her husband, her uncle’s marriage too was broken and his wife forced by her family to leave him following the sata-pata tradition. The uncle and niece are now subjected to cruel remarks by villagers. As she was dumped by her husband, many villagers see Minal as vulnerable and often deride her and try to attack her dignity. Recently, her uncle was assaulted after he tried to protect Milanfrom a drunkard who sought sexual favours from her. According to Kalu, a resident of Pethapur and member of an OBC community, he and his niece Minal had been married through the barter system three years ago in Mehsana. Minal’s husband abandoned her over constant domestic quarrels and Kalu’s wife also returned to her parents. Since then, Kalu and Minal have been living in Pethapur village. Some villagers began to cast doubts on Minal's character and holding her responsible for being dumped by her husband. On July 22, a villager named Thakor grabbed Minal’s hand and dragged her to a secluded place behind a shop. Minal told TOI, “He was making vulgar remarks while dragging me. I could sense he was heavily drunk. When I tried to resist, he pushed me on the ground and began beating me.” Kalu, who was returning home, saw Minal being beaten by Thakor. He rushed to rescue her but Thakor overpowered him and pushed him down, and hit him on his head with an iron rod. Severely bleeding, Kalu was hospitalized in a government hospital for a day. A medico-legal case was filed and Pethapur police registered an assault case against Thakor. Kalu said that the villagers regularly taunt him and his niece over their broken barter marriage. “People used to harass us a lot before the police complaint was filed. Now, they keep a distance from us,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/chacha-bhatiji-battle-social-fallout-of-sata-pata/articleshow/77207337.cms||Ashish Chauhan
July 29, 2020||Pune||Pump staffer, cousin held for stealing Rs 7L||Pune: An employee of a fuel refilling station and his cousin were arrested on Monday, five hours after they stole Rs7.4 lakh from the pump, and the entire amount was recovered from them. Riyaz Mulani of Sarhan Petrol Pump on Pune-Nashik highway on Monday lodged a complaint with Bhosari police stating some men broke the window pane of the office at the fuel station and fled with Rs7.4 lakh. Assistant inspector Siddheshwar Kailase of Bhosari police said on the CCTV cameras the police saw two men, covered in bedsheets, entering the pump in early hours of Monday and leaving after sometime. “We began questioning all employees at the pump,” Kailase said. Police found the movements of Narayan Pawar (26) suspicious. “Pawar admitted he executed the theft with his cousin Ramesh (22),” Kailase said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pump-staffer-cousin-held-for-stealing-rs-7l/articleshow/77229814.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Kochi||Faisal, Rabins had hawala ties: Customs||Kochi: Faisal Fareed and Rabins Karikkankudiyil had close associations with hawala operatives in the UAE, said Customs sleuths, probing the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case, on Tuesday. Sources said their arrest will be crucial to establish the larger conspiracy behind the smuggling operation and identifying other links of the accused, abroad. "Rabins was a close associate of Faisal, who made major investments in the smuggling operation. We have credible info of Rabins’s links with hawala operatives in the UAE. We have already identified a few other persons based in the UAE who are part of the racket," said a senior customs official. Customs officials had earlier hinted that persons in UAE, having links with the racket, were the same persons who had connections with a Muvattupuzha-based racket that smuggled around 1,500kg of gold between 2013 and 2015. Customs found more details about Rabins after questioning Jalal, a close aide of mastermind Ramees, who also had links with Muvattupuzha gang. "The names, which are coming up during the probe (to find other members of the racket in UAE), are the same names associated with Muvattupuzha case. Our probe will bust the entire network, including those residing abroad," said an official. Customs said that current investigation is focused on analysing collected evidence and statements of the 16 accused. "Even before the baggage was formally opened on July 5, we had information on several persons involved in smuggling. The investigation was conducted with a strong plan backed by credible intelligence. In a little over three weeks we arrested 16 persons. Now, before gunning for the rest of the network, we are taking a breather and analysing what we have," said an official. Sources said Customs was hoping that Swapna, Sandeep and Ramees would give them useful information during questioning that will establish the connection of the syndicate’s UAE links. Earlier on Tuesday, additional chief judicial magistrate court (economic offences) issued a non-bailable warrant (NBW) against Faisal and Rabins. Customs sleuths said they will now approach Interpol, through CBI, and file NBW along with a report on the accused so that a red-corner notice can be issued to extradite them. Bail pleas dismissed Meanwhile, the court dismissed the bail applications of Hamjad Ali K, Mohammed Anwar TM, Samju TM, Jifsal CV and Mohammed Abdul Shameem.Additional chief judicial magistrate Deepu C observed that instant release of the accused will hamper the progress of the investigation. "I find great force in the submission of the special prosecutor that petitioners are likely to tamper with evidence, influence witnesses and help the absconding accused in the event of granting bail. In the result, applications are dismissed," court order said. Customs had submitted a petition requesting the custody of Jalal AM, Muhammed Shafi, Said Alavi E, Muhammed Anwar TM, Hamjad Ali, Abdul Hammed, Abubacker Pazhedath, Muhammed Abdu Shameem, Jifsal CV and Abdu PD. The court remanded Jalal, Shafi and Hamjad Ali in Customs custody till 5pm on Wednesday. The custody of the rest is till 5pm on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/faisal-rabins-had-hawala-ties-customs/articleshow/77228598.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Coimbatore||City airport handled 21 flights from abroad during lockdown||Coimbatore: The city airport has handled 21 flights from 10 foreign destinations, carrying a total of 3,886 passengers, ever since the state allowed repatriation of Tamils who were stranded abroad because of the lockdown. However, compared to other tier II cities such as Trichy and Madurai, the city has handled only a meagre number of rescue flights.The civil aviation ministry had cancelled all domestic and international flight operations across the country from March 22. After that, the city airport handled only a few chartered flights and cargo flights from Dubai and Sharjah. While the Centre introduced flights under Vande Bharat Mission in May, the city airport received its first rescue flight, which flew down from Dubai with 180 passengers, only on June 3.By July 28, the airport saw 21 such flights from Sharjah, Dubai, Singapore, Brunei, Doha, Muscat and Nairobi. Most of the flights were from Sharjah, followed by Singapore and Muscat. Earlier, the city airport was connected only to three international destinations.Chennai airport handled 144 rescue flights and 20,824 passengers, the highest in the state, followed by Trichy airport that received 83 flights and 13,887 passengers and Madurai airport, which recorded 28 flights and 5,339 passengers.Aviation enthusiast say the city airport has all the infrastructure in terms of runway, staff and systems to handle any number of international flights. “It just needs more political will to bring more attention to the city airport and promote it in the international sector. The airport can definitely handle more flights,” said R Raveendran, Residents Awareness Associations of Coimbatore.The airport authorities say they hadn’t faced any challenges in handling international flights. “Except for wearing the protective gear, which took us some time to get used to, we faced no issues,” said R Mahalingam, city airport director.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-airport-handled-21-flights-from-abroad-during-lockdown/articleshow/77229805.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra: SSC results to be declared at 1pm||MUMBAI: The last in the season this year, SSC (Secondary School Certificate, Class X) results will be announced at 1pm today. Over 18 lakh students who appeared for the exams can check results on www.mahresult.nic.inMaharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) conducted the exam in February and March. The last paper, Geography, scheduled for March 23, was cancelled due to Covid-19. Students will be awarded average marks they have scored in other papers for the subject. Nearly four lakh students took the exam from Mumbai division, consisting of Mumbai, Palghar, Raigad and Thane. In the state’s nine divisions, around 65,000 more than last year appeared. In 2019, SSC results were hit and the state saw the lowest success rate since 2006 as internal exams were scrapped. The 20-mark internal marking system of language and social studies subjects came back this year. “The results are a reflection of the year-long efforts students have put in and I want to wish them all the best for their future,” said education minister Varsha Gaikwad in a video message on twitter. After results are announced, students can apply at  http://verification.mh-ssc.ac.in for re-counting of scores between July 30-August 8. Students can request photocopies of answer-sheets between July 30-August 18 on the board’s official site. Once students receive the photocopy, they can apply for re-evaluation or re-assessment within five days. Fees have to be paid online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/ssc-results-to-be-declared-at-1pm/articleshow/77231826.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Thane||Maharashtra: SSC results to be declared at 1pm||MUMBAI: The last in the season this year, SSC (Secondary School Certificate, Class X) results will be announced at 1pm today. Over 18 lakh students who appeared for the exams can check results on www.mahresult.nic.inMaharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) conducted the exam in February and March. The last paper, Geography, scheduled for March 23, was cancelled due to Covid-19. Students will be awarded average marks they have scored in other papers for the subject. Nearly four lakh students took the exam from Mumbai division, consisting of Mumbai, Palghar, Raigad and Thane. In the state’s nine divisions, around 65,000 more than last year appeared. In 2019, SSC results were hit and the state saw the lowest success rate since 2006 as internal exams were scrapped. The 20-mark internal marking system of language and social studies subjects came back this year. “The results are a reflection of the year-long efforts students have put in and I want to wish them all the best for their future,” said education minister Varsha Gaikwad in a video message on twitter. After results are announced, students can apply at  http://verification.mh-ssc.ac.in for re-counting of scores between July 30-August 8. Students can request photocopies of answer-sheets between July 30-August 18 on the board’s official site. Once students receive the photocopy, they can apply for re-evaluation or re-assessment within five days. Fees have to be paid online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/ssc-results-to-be-declared-at-1pm/articleshow/77231825.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Bhopal||Now, Jitu Patwari’s poster surfaces on social media||BHOPAL: Poster war intensified within the state Congress on Tuesday after a third placard went viral on the social network, this time claiming former minister Jitu Patwari as the youth face of the party. Recently, two more posters surfaced, one claiming senior leader Digvijaya Singh’s son Jaivardhan as future chief minister and another of former chief minister Kamal Nath’s son Nakul Nath as youth leader of the party. While BJP took a dig at the entire commotion over posters, Congress claimed it is the ruling party’s conspiracy before the assembly bypolls. On Tuesday, a poster appeared on the social media which said, “Naa Raja, naa vyapari. Abki baar Jeetu Patwari. Dekho dekho kaun ayaa, sher ayya, sher aaya (Not king, not trader. This time it will be Jitu Patwari. See the Tiger has come). King here would mean former minister Jaivardhan Singh, since he hails from the royal family of Raghogarh and trader is Nakul Nath since he hails from a business background despite being son of one of the senior most politicians of the country. This poster is being seen as a reply to two earlier posters. The first appeared on a bill board in the MP Nagar area of the state capital on Jaivardhan Singh’s birthday. The poster said, “Madhya Pradesh ke bhabi mukhya mantra Jaivardhan Singh ko janamdin kid hero shubh kamnaye (wishing the future chief minister of Madhya Pradesh Jaivardhan Singh on his birthday). Within half-an-hour, the poster was removed and Jaivardhan Singh registered an FIR against an alleged Jyotiraditya Scindia supporter Krishna Ghadke for the mischief. Soon a second poster surfaced on the social media which claimed, “Kamal Nath ji ka aadesh, Nakul Nath sambhalo pradesh. Madhya Pradesh ka asli Tiger (Kamal Nath’s order, Nakul Nath take care of the state. Real tiger of Madhya Pradesh).” Media also showed Nakul Nath saying he will lead the youth of the state. But Congress explained that Nakul Nath has difficulty expressing himself in Hindi. “What he meant was he will work with the youth of the party and the state,” said state PCC spokesman JP Dhanopia. “Nakul Nath is an elected MP and while speaking to the media said he will work with all other youth leaders of the party. His statement has been misrepresented. And these two posters of Nakul Nath and Jeetu Patwari on the social media is dirty game played by the BJP,” Dhanopia added. Reacting to Tuesday’s poster on Jeetu Patwari, former minister PC Sharma said, “Right now we have one focus and that is to contest the bypolls under the leadership of senior leader Kamal Nath. We will decide on patwari, tehsildar and collector later.” Jeetu Patwari also clarified, “Our leader is Kamal Nath and the youth brigade is led by MP Nakul Nath. We are all together and will expose the BJP’s failures.” However, minister for urban development Bhupendra Singh tweeted, “Seems like the Youth Congress before the elections have decided to send @OfficeOfKNath and @digvijaya_28 towards vanprastha.” And on Monday, home minister Narottam Mishra had said, “In the Congress Youth will be led by Nakul Nath, elderly by Kamal Nath and the rest will be anath (orphans).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/now-jitu-patwaris-poster-surfaces-on-social-media/articleshow/77228595.cms||Suchandana Gupta
July 29, 2020||Ludhiana||From selling school uniforms to food items on bike||LUDHIANA: In another case of survival amid the crisis triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic, a 45-year-old local shopkeeper, Manjeet Singh of Shimlapuri, has been forced to give up his seven-year-old profession of selling school uniforms and grocery items and indulge in the business of selling home made food items to people on a roadside in the posh locality of Ghumar Mandi on his two wheeler bullet motorcycle to sustain his livelihood. After the governing bodies decided to shut down all school institutions in view of restricting the spread of Covid-19, the business of selling uniforms totally got stopped and this forced him to look for some other way of earning livelihood to deal with the crisis. After working for the last seven years in the profession of selling uniforms to local people in Shimlapur, Singh had been faced a financial crisis after the government imposed strict lockdown in the last five months. He had no choice but to sell several food items to customers on his bullet motorcycle on roadside in Ghumar Mandi. Singh said, “It’s the sixth days since I started selling food items on my motorcycle after I have found this is the only way I can survive under these conditions of lockdown because I had closed my years old business of selling uniforms to locals. It’s really a challenging task of selling food items while standing on city roads in hot and humid weather conditions from early morning till evening for earning almost Rs 300-400 for managing household expenses.” He further said, “Earlier, I had not imagined in my dreams that one day I would have to sell food items this way for earning livelihood as in this situation the opening of schools and colleges might get delayed further. But after the outbreak of Covid-19 along with imposition of lockdown in the country, almost every business has been hit and the struggle of earning bread and butter has forced many people to give up their years old profession and start something afresh to earn money.” Singh added that, “I have three children and wife and I am the sole breadwinner of my family because my daughter is still studying and responsibility of managing household expenses falls on my shoulders which forced me to leave my comfort zone and start doing the business of selling food.” “I have no big savings, no big capital, so I started selling food items on my motorcycle which I had purchased five years back when my business was in full pace and I was earning good profit. I have lost all our savings in the past several months while managing the basic household expenses and paying house loans and electricity bills and car loan, which we had taken few months back,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/from-selling-school-uniforms-to-food-items-on-bike/articleshow/77228601.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
July 29, 2020||Coimbatore||District breaches 4,000-mark; 2 more deaths take Covid toll to 44||Coimbatore: The district recorded 273 new cases on Tuesday, taking the tally of Covid-19 cases to 4,052. Officials said 296 people were discharged on Tuesday, while the district recorded two more deaths, taking the toll to 44. The two deaths include a 62-year-old man who got admitted on July 8 and tested positive the next day. He died on July 26 at 4.30 pm. He was “a diabetic and has later developed pneumonia.” Another 62-year-old woman from the district “with bronchial asthma” was admitted on July 23 and died on Monday. The 273 fresh cases include 11 people from Pollachi municipality office, nine from Podanur and 12 from Selvapuram. A special sub-inspector (SSI) attached to the Podanur (crime) police station tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday morning. The police station has been closed for fumigation. The swab samples of seven police personnel attached to the police station have been sent for testing. Bracing for a spike in active cases, the health department has asked the district administration if they can take over hall C in CODISSIA, which has been transformed into an isolation facility. They have already arranged for 700 beds across hall D and E.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/district-breaches-4000-mark-2-more-deaths-take-covid-toll-to-44/articleshow/77229833.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Jaipur||Caregivers of Covid patients under home quarantine given preventive medications||JAIPUR: With asymptomatic Covid-19 patients being allowed home isolation with riders, the health department is concerned over the health of other family members. It is currently giving hydroxychloroquine to caregivers or close contacts in the family as prophylaxis. More asymptomatic or mild symptomatic Covid patients are now opting for home isolation and for such patients a caregiver is mostly a family member who provides food and care to the patient. The role of a caregiver is quite challenging as he or her has to keep monitoring the health of the patient such as difficulty in breathing, dip in oxygen saturation, persistent pain in chest, mental confusion, slurred speech, weakness or numbness in limb or face, developing bluish discoloration of lips and face. While taking care of the patient, a caregiver has also been asked to self-monitor their own health with daily temperature monitoring and report promptly if they develop any symptoms suggestive of Covid (fever, cough and difficulty in breathing). Currently, a lot of asymptomatic patients are kept in home isolation across the state following the sudden spike in cases, especially in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Alwar. In Jaipur, 506 asymptomatic patients have been kept in home isolation. Since the caregivers and close contacts at homes at always at risk of getting infected, health department officials are providing hydroxychloroquine as prophylaxis treatment to such people with an aim to ward off risk of infection. “Till date, we have provided 40,000 tablets of hydroxychloroquine to people including doctors, policemen and now we are providing close contacts and care givers of asymptomatic patients at home quarantine,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer. The health department is allowing home isolation to those patients only who have a separate room in a house, where no other person is allowed and having facility of separate toilet. Patient under home isolation stands discharged after 10 days of symptom onset and no fever for three days. Also, there is no need for testing after the home isolation period is over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/caregivers-of-covid-patients-under-home-quarantine-given-preventive-medications/articleshow/77229820.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
July 29, 2020||Nagpur||24 test positive in Chanda, tally now 447||Chandrapur: With the addition of 24 new patients, the Covid-19 tally in Chandrapur climbed up to 447. In all, 286 patients have been discharged so far, while 161 are under treatment. Most of the newly added patients belong to Chandrapur. They include four women from Chorkhidki locality, a cop and a woman from police quarters at Girnar chowk, a youth from Rajiv Gandhi Nagar, a six-year-old boy and girl from Jagannath Baba Nagar, a woman from Girnar chowk, a person from Tukum locality and another from Ram Nagar in Chandrapur city. Apart from this, a person each from Ballarpur, Nakoda, Rajura, Bodha in Bramhapuri tehsil and Kevda in Chimur tehsil also tested positive. Sources claimed six patients in Chandrapur are in critical condition. There has been no local death reported in district due to Covid-19 so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/24-test-positive-in-chanda-tally-now-447/articleshow/77229934.cms||Mazhar Ali
July 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Uproar over online ‘technical glitch’ in two city schools||Ahmedabad: In what has been called a ‘technical glitch’ by managements of the two schools, about 200 students of Udgam School and Zebar School For Children found their access to social media groups for online classes abruptly removed. They were added back following backlash from parents on social media who alleged that their wards were bearing the brunt of the stand-off between the state government and self-financed schools.The concerned students were shocked to find on Monday morning, when online classes were to resume after a 3-day gap, their contact numbers had been removed from the online sharing platforms and they no longer had access to participate in online classes.Though school authorities claimed it was a technical glitch that was subsequently rectified and the access of the students granted, some parents alleged it happened in cases of students whose parents had not paid tuition fees. School authorities brushed off the allegations as baseless.“There was a technical glitch in the system and we have restored the error. Students who have paid fees got removed as well,” said Manan Choksi, a trustee of Udgam School and Zebar School. “It was unintentional and all of the students have been added back for online classes. There are 7,000 students in the two schools of which 200 students were removed by mistake,” Choksi said.There are about 150 parents in these two schools who have not paid school fees for their wards. They claimed that the school’s abrupt decision was part of an attempt to oppose the recent state government directive of not collecting tuition fees from parents for lockdown period.Calling it an unfortunate incident, Naresh Shah, president of Gujarat Vali Mandal, said they will make representation to the state government about the matter. The government’s recent notification has also directed schools not to hike fees for the academic year 2020-21. Schools that have already collected fees from parents will have to adjust them when the schools re-open physically. The decision has not gone down well with many schools, many of who have challenged the government’s directive in Gujarat high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/uproar-over-online-technical-glitch-in-two-city-schools/articleshow/77207370.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Bhopal||MP CM leads virtual cabinet meet from hospital, orders 12,ooo Covid-19 beds readied||BHOPAL: Wearing a blue hospital gown, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan held a virtual cabinet meeting from his Covid ward on Tuesday, his fourth day in hospital after being detected with the virus. Chouhan, who has been regularly holding review meetings despite being in hospital, told his cabinet colleagues that he no longer has cough or fever. He asked the administration to prepare 12,000 hospital beds for Corona patients (8,000 now), and increase the number of ICU beds from 827 to 1700. Home minister Narottam Mishra claimed this was the first virtual cabinet meeting in the country where all the ministers, located in different parts of the state, connected via video. According to Mishra, CM Chouhan told ministers that lockdown cannot be a permanent solution and asked for suggestions from the cabinet. The ministers were told that 20,300 patients have recovered in MP and the state has 70% recovery rate. Chambal Expressway renamedGoing by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for Atmanirbhar Bharat, the CM asked ministers to work out a plan to create a selfreliant Madhya Pradesh. Every minister has been asked to make a plan for self-reliance for their department and submit it by August 15,” Mishra said. The cabinet decided to change the name of the proposed Chambal Expressway to ‘Chambal Progressway’. This four-lane, 309km highway from the Rajasthan border to Morena and Bhind is one of the 22 greenfield highways to be constructed by the Union government. “The change of name is welcome because Chambal is generally associated with dacoits and desperados, but will now be an industrial area, opening up opportunities for employment. It is during Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s tenure that Chambal became peaceful,” the home minister said. The state will give land for the ‘progressway’ free of cost. “If farmers’ land is acquired then government will give land in exchange,” Mishra said. The cabinet decided to take the Prime Minister’s Swanidhi Yojana loan scheme for city vendors to the rural level. “It applies to areas under municipal corporations and municipalities. We will take it to janpadh, village and town panchayats with Mukhya Mantri Path Vikreta Yojana. Under this, loans of Rs 10,000 will be extended to blacksmiths, potters, barbers, vendors and small shopkeepers,” the minister explained. The government has received 8.56 lakh applications, and ministers will hold functions to distribute loans to beneficiaries, Mishra said. Between 2013 and 2018, the Shivraj government had upgraded 22 village panchayats to town panchayats, which was cancelled by the Kamal Nath government. On Tuesday, the cabinet reinstated the status of 21 of them, with Keolari in Datia being left out. The minister said residents of Keolari will be consulted before upgrading the panchayat. The government approved continuing with the PM Fasal Bima Yojana for 2020-2021 for Rabi crops and 2021-2022 for Kharif crops. The Congress protested as videos of the cabinet meeting allegedly went viral. “This cabinet meeting was held to get publicity,” said state Congress spokesman Durgesh Sharma. “All the ministers have taken oath of secrecy and yet make a cabinet meeting go viral via several portals. Hackers could have hacked into the meeting. How justified was it to call a virtual cabinet meeting? The CM did not take cabinet meetings for weeks after his swearing-in. Couldn’t he have waited another five days?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-leads-virtual-cabinet-meet-from-hosp-orders-12k-covid-beds-readied/articleshow/77228612.cms||Suchandana Gupta
July 29, 2020||Rajkot||Covid positive accused escapes in Junagadh||Rajkot: A man accused in an attempt to murder case escaped from the Covid-19 care centre in Juangadh on Monday night. Police said that Sanjay Kodiyatar (37), who is accused of attempt to run over cops with an SUV during lockdown, had tested positive for Covid-19 after he surrendered before police on July 25.Since Kodiyatar had obtained an anticipatory bail from the court, he was release on bail after formal arrest. However, Juangadh police arrested him for issuing threats in another case on the same day and sent him for Covid-19 test to Junagadh civil hospital, where he tested positive on July 26.DySP Pradipsinh Jadeja of Junagadh police said that Kodiyatar managed to escape from the covid care centre taking advantage of changing of shifts of the on-duty cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/covid-positive-accused-escapes-in-junagadh/articleshow/77227162.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC grants pre-arrest bail to Kalorex MD Manjula Pooja Shroff||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Monday granted anticipatory bail to the MD and CEO of Kalorex Group and a trustee in the Delhi Public School (East), Manjula Pooja Shroff, in connection with the complaint of forgery of an NOC to get CBSE affiliation for the school in 2010. Justice A J Desai granted conditional protection against arrest to Shroff. She will have to furnish bail bond of Rs 25,000 and surrender her passport. The HC has protected her against arrest ever since she had filed anticipatory bail plea in December 2019. Along with Shroff, two other persons, Hiten Vasant and former principal of the school Anita Dua, have also sought anticipatory bail and their bail pleas are pending in the HC. These three approached the high court seeking anticipatory bail after a sessions court at the Mirzapur district court campus denied bail to them. The legal protection was sought after the state education department lodged an FIR with Vivekanand Nagar police for alleged forgery. The issue came to the fore after a man filed a complaint of illegal detention of his children in an ashram run by Nithyananda, which was operational on DPS (East) campus in Hathijan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-grants-pre-arrest-bail-to-kalorex-md/articleshow/77207414.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Surat||Rs 1.71 cr siphoned off from firm’s account||Surat: A city-based construction company lost Rs 1.71 crore to a cyber fraud with the money being siphoned off from its account in multiple transactions through NEFT and RTGS without the knowledge of any employee.Cyber crime cell sleuths said they have also come across such a fraud for the first time as the complainant claimed that the mobile number of the company which was linked with the bank account had become non-functional.The complaint was lodged by Priyank Patel, an employee of Unique Construction. The money was transferred by the fraudster to different bank accounts. In all, 24 transactions of Rs 10 lakh or less amounts were made to transfer the money bank accounts registered in different locations in the country. On Monday morning, when Patel tried to login to netbanking for checking the bank statement, he couldn’t. The construction firm has its account in Bank of Baroda’s Bhatar Road branch. Patel tried to log-in twice but a message of wrong credentials kept popping up. Patel avoided a third attempt as the net banking facility would have got locked automatically.Patel rushed to the bank to check and the officials there informed him that total Rs 1.71 crore have been transferred to different accounts through NEFT/RTGS in the early hours of Monday. Later, when he checked, the mobile number of Unique Construction which was linked with the account had also become non-functional. He could not make or receive calls from the number. “It is a tricky investigation for us as well since we have come across such a crime for the first time. We are investigating how the number stopped functioning and the accused got access to the bank account,” said an officer of cyber-crime police station. An unidentified person has been booked for cheating under Indian Penal Code and also under IT Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/rs-1-71-cr-siphoned-off-from-firms-account/articleshow/77227190.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Officials play down MP’s call for boosting rural health infra||Coimbatore: MP P R Natarajan on Tuesday urged district collector K Rajamani to ramp up medical infrastructure in rural areas to test people for Covid-19 and treat positive cases in their own areas.Health department officials, however, said adequate facilities were already in place in rural areas to treat Covid-19 patients. Pointing out that only 10% to 15% of the total cases in the district were from the rural areas, they said they were managing them in those areas itself.The CPM MP said people from across the district had to now come to the ESI Hospital in the city for testing. “This has led people to crowd the hospital. They give samples for testing and wait at the hospital. Residents in the vicinity are concerned over local transmission of the virus. Heavy vehicular traffic in the area is also causing trouble.”He said people, who were tested positive for the virus from rural areas, had to be brought to the city for treatment either in the ESI Hospital or in the Covid care centre at Codissia trade fair complex and the waiting time for the same was causing them mental stress. “Facilities to test and treat Covid-19 patients should be set up in taluk levels.”On their part, health department officials said there were dedicated Covid-19 treatment centres in rural areas such as Mettupalayam, Pollachi, Bilichi and Annur.Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of health services, said while they were bringing samples collected from rural areas to the ESI Hospital in the city for testing, those tested positive were admitted to Covid care centres in rural areas itself. “We have 43 patients with mild symptoms in the Hindustan Hospital in Mettupalayam and 45 in the Pollachi government hospital.”He said the government hospital at Mettupalayam and Covid care centres at the Government Girls’ Higher Secondary School and NM Home in Pollachi, Sasurie Engineering College near Annur and another college at Bilichi near Perianaicken Palayam were ready to house Covid-19 patients from rural areas.“We have been admitting only symptomatic patients from the city limits in the ESI Hospital and Codissia care centre. Those from rural areas are admitted to the facilities in their nearby areas. We have also been admitting patients from Madukkarai to the Pollachi government hospital,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/officials-play-down-mps-call-for-boosting-rural-health-infra/articleshow/77229861.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi will have to wait for European-style roads||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal held a meeting with Public Works Department on Tuesday regarding the redesign of seven arterial roads in Delhi on the lines those in European cities. He directed revamp of all city roads that are 100-ft wide, entailing 500 km of roads and asked PWD to submit a detailed plan within three weeks. The revamp will be on a Build-Operate-Transfer model, with the contracted company responsible for road maintenance for 15 years, an official disclosed. The deadline for redesigning the seven roads has been extended to August 2021 due to the Covid pandemic from the long gone deadline of December 2020. The CM said, “It is our dream to make Delhi look like other capital cities to present a good image of India across the world. A large number of foreigners come to Delhi and if they find roads here beautiful and congestion-free, the image of India is enhanced. The greenery along these roads will also help us to combat pollution.” A government official pointed out the problems caused to traffic by road bottlenecks and wide roads converging on narrow roads. The priority will be to remove such bottlenecks first to provide for smooth flow of traffic and an organised lane system, the official said. The second goal of the redesign is to increase the efficiency of existing roads and making the best use of road space. There will be measured and planned spaces for vehicles, non-motorised vehicles, footpaths and side-lanes on the stretches. The footpaths will be mapped to give pedestrians an average of 10 feet of space and will be redesigned and reconstructed to ensure there is no inconvenience for physically disadvantaged people. There will be space for planting trees on the sides of the footpaths and separately demarcated parking areas for electric vehicles and auto-rickshaws alongside the footpaths. The slope of the roads, as well as the drains, will be planned to tackle the problem of waterlogging on the roads. Rainwater harvesting structures will be built as part of the drainage systems to replenish the groundwater. Officials said that not even an inch of the surface of any road or roadside would be left uncovered to makes sure that dust on the roads would not elevate the pollution level. Adequate grass cover will be provided to prevent open dust collection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-will-have-to-wait-for-european-style-roads/articleshow/77229859.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Gorakhpur airport fastest growing in north India||LUCKNOW: Gorakhpur airport is fast emerging as one of the busiest airports of the state. In terms of number of passengers and flights, it is already fastest growing in north India. Efforts had been continuing for the development of a civil airport inGorakhpur since mid-80s when Veer Bahadur Singh became the chief minister of the state. He tried hard to get it run on commercial lines, but his efforts did not fructify. Yogi Adityanath as MP of Gorakhpur, too, tried to revive efforts and he even gained some success, but his steps started yielding results in a real sense when he was sworn in as chief minister of the state. From just two flights before 2017 to nine flights daily, from 300 passengers a day to 1,900 passengers daily (before outbreak of novel coronaviruspandemic), the Gorakhpur airport, having a terminal of just 144 square metre, has come a long way. “With Yogi’s efforts, Gorakhpurairport has emerged as a fastest growing airport in northern India in terms of number of passengers and flights. In June 2019, 70,297 passengers had used this airport,” said an officer of the airport while talking to TOI. “When the corona situation would normalise the number of passengers would again pick up,” he added. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had recently announced for speeding up work to make Kushinagarairport an international airport. A senior officer of civil aviation department said that by making such announcement the PM had intended to cater to international tourists visiting the Buddhist circuit. “But it could also be possible that the decision was taken to meet any emergency arising due to mounting tensions along borders with China and Nepal,” he said adding that development of Gorakhpur airport, too, is crucial as it would help eastern UP face any eventuality. Given the flow of tourists at airports in Lucknow and Varanasi, Gorakhpur has acquired the third position in the state with six flights taking off and the same number making landings daily from here. On an average, the daily passenger count is about 2,000. Unlike Lucknow and Varanasi airports, the Gorakhpur has a staff of only eight, including airport director, two ground staff and five engineers. While Gorakhpur airport is managed by state police, other airports of the state are being manned by central reserve police force. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi, had recently stated that a special force would be created in the state to man the airport security. Meanwhile, the state government has decided to upgrade a civil airport at Ayodhya in view of construction of Ram temple. It would also have modern infrastructure, the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gorakhpur-airport-fastest-growing-in-north-india/articleshow/77230565.cms||Subhash Mishra
July 29, 2020||Delhi||AAP-BJP row over corpn taxes spills on to streets||New Delhi: A major confrontation between Aam Aadmi Party and BJP-ruled municipal corporations is brewing after AAP alleged corruption in the civic bodies. AAP also held a protest march on Wednesday against the tax hike announced by South Delhi Municipal Corporation. The march started from the party headquarters and police stopped and detained the protesters before they reached the BJP headquarters. Meanwhile, North Delhi Municipal Corporation House leader, Yogesh Verma, has issued “criminal and civil defamation notices of Rs 1 crore against AAP MLAs Raghav Chadha and Atishi for making corruption allegations in the municipal corporations.” The cash-strapped SDMC had on Monday slapped three new taxes - professional tax, effective hike in property tax on commercial properties and hike of 1% on transfer of property. AAP will continue to oppose the move, said party functionary Durgesh Pathak. At a press conference, Atishi and Raghav stated that they have received the defamation notice. AAP will launch a statewide movement against corruption of the corporations, they announced. The AAP functionaries had recently raised the issue that the corporation had not paid salaries of doctors of Kasturba Gandhi Hospital and Hindu Rao Hospital during the Covid pandemic and called it unfortunate. “BJP is now trying to silence our voice,” they claimed. “The BJP has sent criminal defamation notices against me and Raghav Chadha for raising the issue of corruption by BJP in the corporations,” Atishi said. Verma accused AAP MLAs of making false allegations against the BJP-ruled corporation without any proof. “AAP leaders Raghav Chadda and Atishi said that while the Delhi government has given all funds to the civic agency, its councillors have siphoned off the money and the employees are not getting salaries,” said the NDMC House leader. “If the councillors have siphoned off the money, they should share the details, including names of councillors and and the amount, and our party will take strong action. Else, they can’t make such loose statements. I have served them legal notice and given seven days to prove their allegations or make a public apology. Otherwise, we will file a defamation case of Rs 1 crore against them in court,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-bjp-row-over-corpn-taxes-spills-on-to-streets/articleshow/77250669.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Ex-diplomat’s email hacked, many duped||NEW DELHI: A retired diplomat’s email account was hacked recently and distress mails were sent from his account to his contacts asking for monetary help. The unsuspecting contacts, including some foreign dignitaries, subsequently transferred Rs 1.4 lakh to multiple bank accounts managed by the fraudsters. Delhi Police has arrested one person in this connection and suspects involvement of an international cheating syndicate. DCP (south) Atul Thakur said that Akram, the arrested culprit and a resident of Shaheen Bagh, was operating along with one Anees. The latter was in touch with some foreigners who had asked him to open 70-80 bank accounts in which they would transfer the money. Akram would rent out his house to daily wagers and use their ID proofs to open the bank accounts under different names. The cops are in the process of identifying Anees and his foreign connections. “We could trace down Akram from the bank accounts and the linked mobile phones. However, the cheating is being done through a network that is difficult to trail. Tracing the money trail often leads to a fake address or an identity in such cases,” said Thakur. Akram told the cops that he received a commission of 8-10% for each transaction that happened through his accounts. It was found that the accounts were opened in different banks using the same address proof. Earlier, the same technique was used to dupe a Kanpur-based businessman of Rs 70 lakh, a part of which was transferred to Akram too. The gang used to target senior government officers and businessmen by hacking into their bank accounts using their email IDs and passwords. Police are now trying to track down all the bank accounts in which the money was transferred. Sixteen ATM cards, 32 cheque books and several other documents related to the accounts were recovered from Akram. Watch Delhi: Former diplomat’s email hacked, many duped||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ex-diplomats-email-hacked-many-duped/articleshow/77230578.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai logs 700 Covid-19 cases, its lowest in 77 days||MUMBAI: The city on Tuesday logged 700 new cases, its lowest in 77 days. BMC commissioner IS Chahal had earlier said it was the lowest daily addition in 100 days, but later corrected it. In another positive sign for the city, active cases dropped below 20,000 for the first time since May 29. Meanwhile, the state tally neared the 4-lakh mark, with 7,717 new cases. The state also added 282 fresh deaths— 55 of them in Mumbai. Chahal said, “Today we have only 700 positive cases in Mumbai. And this is despite our daily testing numbers touching 8,776, which was also the highest ever.” The city’s testing rate has now reached 38,004 per million, which is one of the highest in the country. It, however, is still behind Delhi (50,435). The last time the city had added fewer than 700 cases was on May 12 (426). The very next day, the daily addition jumped to 800 and was on the rise until recently. The last time Mumbai had a daily addition in the range of 700 cases was on July 7 when 785 cases were registered, but the respite was short-lived as cases returned to the level of thousands thereafter. Daily additions entered the range of 1,000 cases sometime in mid-May, which now experts say is when the city had started seeing a peak. On May 17, Mumbai for the first time had reported 1,000-plus cases (1,595) and continued to do so till June 16 when there were 935 cases. Since then the cases had largely hovered between 1,200 and 1,700, even rising to 2,077 on June 27. A steady decline has been seen since the past fortnight with cases hovering between 1,000 and 1,200. According to BMC, the overall growth rate of Covid cases in Mumbai between July 21 and July 27 was 1.02%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mum-logs-700-cases-its-lowest-in-77-days/articleshow/77230580.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Nagpur||Researchers hope for good news by Aug 15 as Covaxin trials continue||Nagpur: Four more volunteers of different age groups and backgrounds were administered a dose of Covaxin in Nagpur on Tuesday. The only centre in Maharashtra for Covaxin human trials – Dr Gillurkar’s Hospital and Research Institute— is conducting these trials. Three volunteers who got vaccine dose on July 27 are doing well, said Dr Chandrashekhar Gillukar, director of the institute. “Our team is in touch with them. First batch of three will come for review on Day 14, which is August 11, while Tuesday’s batch of 4 will report on August 12. Their blood samples will be sent for testing the same day. We can expect the results in next two days,” Dr Gillurkar said. This means, the initial result of first phase will come by August 13 or 14. “If these participants successfully develop antibodies in the first results, it would be big good news for us,” he added. They will be given a second dose and will be reviewed on Day 28. “We started giving vaccines on July 27 but four other institutes out of the 12 test sites for these trials started earlier. They will get initial result even before us,” Gillurkar said. On July 28, four men were administered the vaccine. A 20-year-old college student, two men aged 32 years and 35 years doing jobs in different private companies, and a 43-year-old businessman from Nagpur were given first dose. They were observed for two hours. As they had no immediate side-effects, they were allowed to go home. About 30 people will be administered Covaxin in first phase trials at Nagpur centre, which is the only one in Maharashtra state. Participants are from Nagpur as well as other cities and towns of Maharashtra. Even now, many people are calling Dr Gillurkar and expressing interest in joining the trials. As second phase will have about 750 participants nationally, participants will be required in second phase now. Initial health parameters and further screening is must to join the trials as subjects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/researchers-hope-for-good-news-by-aug-15-as-covaxin-trials-continue/articleshow/77228654.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 29, 2020||Coimbatore||‘Demand creation crucial for MSMEs’ revival’||Coimbatore: Lack of demand seems to be a large and looming problem for micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs). While shortage of raw material, liquidity and labour could be addressed through interventions, unless there was demand for MSME products and services, the sector couldn’t spring back to normalcy, said MSME representatives in an online discussion with their counterparts from across the country on Tuesday. R Ramamurthy, president of the Coimbatore District Small Scale Industries Association (Codissia), said only if there was demand in the market, MSMEs could hope to revive. If Rs 3 lakh crore announced as relief for the MSME sector enters into the economy, adequate demand would be created, he said. P Udayakumar, director of planning and marketing, National Small Industries Corporation (NSIC), said the crisis faced by the MSME sector now boils down to demand. “Finance and raw materials are available, but demand is lacking,” he said and added that if money was infused into other sectors, there would be activity there and it would increase demand for MSME products and services. Of the Rs 3 lakh crore meant for emergency credit line guarantee (ECLG) scheme loans, only Rs 1.23 lakh crore has been sanctioned, of which, only Rs 68,311crore has been disbursed to MSMEs, he said. “Only if there is demand (for products), MSMEs would borrow (funds from banks),” he said. Manguirish Pai Raiker, Chairman, National Council for MSME, the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (Assocham), said MSMEs were now cautious to avail of loans. “We are waiting for demand to pick up,” he said. Ramamurthy said Southern Railway told them it was ready to offer transport services for MSMEs. “If transportation cost comes down, MSMEs can cut costs by one-third and we can become competitive,” he said. Bodies such as the NSIC must procure raw materials in bulk and provide it to MSMEs, so that ‘undue profit’ would be eliminated from the value chain at this critical juncture, he added. The webinar on ‘Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Packages for MSMEs: Challenges and Opportunities’, was organized by Assocham.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/demand-creation-crucial-for-msmes-revival/articleshow/77229870.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Gold smuggling case: Respite for Sivasankar, Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan wins first round||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: At the beginning of gold smuggling case, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had welcomed probe by any agency into the involvement of anyone in his office in the case. “If they want to check my office, let them enter. What is the need for unwanted anxiety?” he had repeatedly asked reporters who posed questions on the case during daily news conferences. When M Sivasankar walked out of NIA office in Kochi after two days of marathon interrogation, along with the CM – the entire leadership of LDF – heaved a sigh of relief. The involvement of Sivasankar, his trusted principal secretary, in the case was a shock for Vijayan, initially. The CM then heard the version of Sivasankar in detail and decided to keep him out of office as it was clear that he had breached the code of conduct for officers. “We still don’t know how the investigation is progressing. NIA will tell the court about it. The party has already welcomed the probe and clarified that anyone found guilty must face the consequences,” said CPM state committee member MB Rajesh. On the allegations levelled against the CM and CPM in the case, Rajesh said time would give a befitting reply to the opposition. “People are watching all these. They know all truth”, he added. During CPM’s online politburo meet on Sunday, Vijayan repeated the position and assured the party that nobody found guilty would be spared. CPM Kerala unit and national leadership had no reasons to dispel his arguments. The consensus within CPM is not to defend anyone who would be linked to the case and keep the government separate from all controversies. However, the government predicament is not likely to end as UDF and BJP are unlikely to put an end to the controversy. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran’s latest statement that there appeared to be a tacit understanding between CPM and BJP to settle the gold smuggling case is an indication of allegations that can be expected in coming days. “The real issue here is the serious lapse on discharging constitutional responsibility by the chief minister. The official whom he had trusted, and relegated key responsibilities erred. The CM had been warned against his deviations earlier. We all saw what happened during Sprinklr controversy. Yet, he failed to monitor Sivasankar and take corrective steps. The CM should be held accountable for that. The fact is that knowingly or unknowingly a senior CMO official was providing cover for a smuggling racket. That fact is still there,” said political observer Joseph C Mathew. The more than 30-hour interrogation of Sivasankar by Customs and NIA would be something the opposition has plans to cash in on in the coming days. The narrative that the investigation is going on and NIA can come back to Sivasankar would give them a convenient logic to support their attack on the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/respite-for-sivasankar-cm-wins-first-round/articleshow/77228627.cms||B Sreejan
July 29, 2020||Delhi||Education interrupted as Delhi University falters||NEW DELHI: Riya Kwattra, who is pursuing a BSc degree in computer science from Delhi University, was one of the few students after her exams last year. She had to sit again for theory of computation paper in November/December to clear her exams. “When the results were announced in February, I was disappointed to find I had got the same result as earlier. Since then, I have written numerous letters to the university requesting re-evaluation,” said the Bhiwani, Haryana, girl. “But even in all these months, the exam department is yet to respond.” It is this sort of problems related to student issues that are making many people allege a systemic rot in DU, citing as evidence of this the faltering conduct of the mock online exams. They also point out how exam results have been delayed, how student grouses about incorrect assessment have increased and how re-evaluation is going nowhere. Kwattra, despite several visits from her Haryana home to DU, hasn’t had her grievance looked into. “I do not even know when the results will be declared and if I will be eligible to sit for some entrance exams I am preparing for,” she sighed. Her predicament is shared by Sharad Kumar, a BA student of Motilal Nehru Evening College. The resident of Rishikesh, Uttarakhand, sat for his exam in November/December “after rigorous tuitions for a year”, like Kwattra got a failed assessment again. Kumar, who wants to study in DU’s law faculty, said, “Clearly there is some fault with the evaluation. Many students have faced the same problem in different subjects. The National Students’ Union of India sent a letter to the dean of examination on this, with no impact.” Tapsi Chadha and Somya Vats, 3rd year students of Hansraj College, also claimed that BA English (H) students were all mystified by their results. “First, the results were announced late. Then, the results were faulty. Many of us approached the university for re-evaluation, but none of us has got a response for two months now. In fact, they have not even acknowledged our requests after charging us Rs 1,000,” alleged Chadha. Only last week, Delhi high court pulled up DU for withholding the degrees of five doctors who had graduated in 2018 from Lady Hardinge Medical College. The court was critical of the delay and wondered why DU couldn’t provide the students their degrees and marks transcripts through online means. The university has stated that it now has issued a tender for printing of the documents. Rajesh Jha, member of DU’s Executive Council, also alleged, “The university’s examination system is in total chaos and students are forced to approach the judiciary for redress of their grievances. We teachers have received so many calls from the parents about arbitrariness in last semester’s results.” Professor Pankaj Garg too felt it wouldn’t be prudent to hold OBE from August 10 when re-evaluation of last semester’s exams was pending. Numerous attempts to contact Vinay Gupta, dean of examinations, did not elicit any response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/education-interrupted-as-du-falters-students-woes-mount-but-univ-seems-clueless/articleshow/77230604.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
July 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Mobile shops at Gandhipuram join corpn’s fight against Covid||Coimbatore: The city corporation has asked mobile shops and service centres at Gandhipuram, where scores of people throng daily, to shut operations for five days from Wednesday in view of the steady spike in Covid-19 cases in the district. More than 400 mobile shops, including service centres and the ones that sell spare parts, are located on the narrow lanes that are sandwiched between Cross Cut Road and 100-feet Road in Gandhipuram.The area is considered a mobile phone hub, as phones are sold in bulk quantities to retailers in and around the district and because of the availability of rare accessories and spare parts. Scores of people from across the district frequent the shops in the locality regularly. The shops on an average clock business to the tune Rs40 lakh a day. Ever since the pandemic hit the country and social distancing become mandatory, the shopkeepers have been finding it difficult to manage the crowd, mainly because of lack of sufficient space.S Mansoor Ali, president, Coimbatore District Mobile Sales and Service Association, said the shops on 1st to 10th streets of Gandhipuram would remain closed from Wednesday to Monday to help the city corporation to contain the spread of novel coronavirus. “As the lanes are narrow, barricades were placed at the entry points to prevent vehicles from entering and congesting the area further. Yet, we were struggling to control the crowd.”Pointing out that more than 2,000 people were dependent on the shops to make a living, he said business would be affected due to the closure. “But health is more important.”Mobile shops in other parts of the district would, however, continue to function as usual.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mobile-shops-at-gandhipuram-join-corpns-fight-against-covid/articleshow/77229943.cms||Nivedha Selvam
July 29, 2020||Rajkot||Leopard mauls retired teacher to death||RAJKOT: Initially suspected and registered as a murder, the death of a 64-year-old man in Gir-Somnath’s Talala taluka, has turned out to be a result of a brutal attack by a leopard. The body of Laxmidas Sureja, a retired school teacher, was found in a pool of blood on Virpur-Dhava road at around 10:45pm on Monday by his family members. Sureja had gone to his mango orchard with some labourers and was returning home after completion of work. However, as he did not come till late, his relatives started searching for him. They called the the local police suspecting that someone had killed him and the cops registered a case of murder. The body was sent for postmortem to Talala government hospital where doctors informed at around 2am that the injuries were inflicted by some wild animal. The police then informed the forest department for further investigation. Sureja was returning home on foot from the orchard. Talking to TOI, Dheeraj Mittal, deputy conservator of forest, Gir (west) division said, “There was no eyewitness of the incident and being the rainy season, pug marks were also not clearly seen. But looking at injury marks, we strongly suspect that he was attacked by a leopard. It's difficult to say why the leopard attacked him.” According to forest officials, leopards generally don’t attack adults, so there is a possibility that a wild cat and the victim could have accidentally come closer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/leopard-mauls-retd-teacher-to-death/articleshow/77227275.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Nagpur||Missing Vakataka coin probe gets boost as ex-HoD’s handwriting on ‘receipt’ confirmed||Nagpur: The Vakataka coin theft case of Nagpur University, almost in cold storage, seems to have got a boost as the handwriting department of State Criminal Investigation Department (CID) confirmed the handwriting on a crucial document to be that of an ex-head of the department (HoD) who was already under scanner. Around 224 Vakataka-Vishukundin era coins had mysteriously gone missing along with 2,633 other artefacts from the museum of the Department of Ancient Indian History, Culture and Archaeology of the university. The coins and artefacts, registered as ‘antiquities’, are learnt to be worth crores of rupees in international market. The coins, made out of gold, silver and bronze, were handed over to the university in 1967 by a Paoner-based farmer, Deshmukh, who had found them while farming his land. TOI was the first to report about the missing coins and related irregularities of the department, including the unavailability of a ‘fact-finding report’ about the glitches, in March 2016. After much delay, university lodged a complaint with Ambazari police in March 2017 following which a case of theft was registered. Sources in the police department said a scholar and photographer had obtained signature of the ex-HoD on a piece of paper while handing over the coins to him after her purpose was served with them. She had kept the ‘receipt’ with herself as proof of handing over the coins to the then HoD. After the controversy over the missing coins led to a police probe, the woman handed over the receipt to the investigating team stating it was the proof of her handing over the coins to the HoD. Ambazari police, which too went slow on the case, had sent the receipt for handwriting verification to the State CID’s special wing in Pune. “We had sent a letter to the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) for valuation. It had replied it could not estimate the value without the coins and also wanted police to refer the case to the state wing of ASI,” said an officer of Ambazari police station. “Once we get a reply regarding the valuation of the coins, we know whom to arrest and recover the coins as the handwriting specimen has already confirmed the suspect,” he said. He could not explain why action could not be taken without valuation report. It is learnt former HoD Preeti Trivedi was first to raise an alarm about missing in 2014 while taking charge of the department from her predecessor. She had alerted the then divisional commissioner Anoop Kumar who was also holding the additional charge of the vice-chancellor. A fact-finding committee was formed under Kumar. Its report, prepared and presented in July 2014, too had gone missing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/missing-vakataka-coin-probe-gets-boost-as-ex-hods-handwriting-on-receipt-confirmed/articleshow/77228687.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 29, 2020||Vadodara||Two arrested for stabbing SMC sanitation worker||Vadodara: The city police on Tuesday arrested two men for attempting to murder a resident of Surat three days ago. The accused duo identified as Sahil Makwana and Nehal Chauhan have been handed over to the Surat police. According to the police, Makwana and Chauhan had attacked Gavlesh Bhagat over personal enmity following which a complaint of attempt to murder was registered at the Pandesara Police Station. The duo stabbed Bhagat 33 times and fled from the spot. “We had received information that the accused were in Manjalpur area following which we kept a watch and nabbed them on Tuesday,” said S V Chaudhary, Navapura police inspector. Police said that the accused came here as they might have had some contacts in the city. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-arrested-for-stabbing-smc-sanitation-worker/articleshow/77227342.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Rajkot||Two cousin sisters found hanging from tree in Rajkot village||RAJKOT: Two cousin sisters were found hanging by a tree in Tagdadi village of Rajkot on Monday evening. The deceased were identified as Sarita Bhuriya (16) and her cousin Radhika Kalara (13), both native of Dahod district. Police said that the sisters had come to Rajkot about a year ago with their parents who are farm labourers. R K Rathod, police sub-inspector with Kuvadva police station said that immediate reason of death was not known as the postmortem report too did not indicate any assault or violence. Rathod said that even the family members are not sure what prompted the girls to end their lives. According to police, the two girls were playing near the farm of Kishor Patel while their parents were working in the nearby filed. Around 6.30pm on Monday their parents found them missing and went in search for them. They found their bodies hanging from the tree with their dupattas. Sarita is the eldest of six siblings — three brothers and three sisters, while Radhika is third among five siblings comprising four sisters and one brother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-cousin-sisters-found-hanging-from-tree-in-rajkot-village/articleshow/77227249.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Nagpur||BJP opposes extended lockdown proposal in city||Nagpur: The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party in Nagpur Municipal Corporation has announced it was against the administration’s proposal for a complete 15-day lockdown and curfew in city. The party is also angry over district guardian minister Nitin Raut not taking it into confidence while forming a panel to decide on lockdown policy for the city, The decision on lockdown will be taken by the administrative officers and their committee, guardian minister Nitin Raut announced on July 27 after chairing a meeting at divisional commissionerate. In a statement, ruling party leader in NMC Sandip Jadhav said lockdown would cause huge losses to daily wagers. “We all are against lockdown. The guardian minister is indulging in dirty politics,” said Jadhav. Mayor Sandip Joshi on Tuesday also cancelled his three-day programme to create awareness about Covid-19 guidelines. As the debate continues on whether to reimpose complete lockdown with curfew or not, Joshi took the initiative and organised a meeting of MPs, MLAs, corporators and officials to discuss the issue on July 24. Joshi expressed concern over Raut’s decision as the former had skipped the meeting that focused on public awareness rather than lockdown. “Raut’s role on all these issues is a violation of the rights of people's representatives,” Jadhav said, “The two-day janata curfew on July 25 and 26 received good support from the public indicating they do not want a prolonged lockdown.” He said talks of another lockdown had created terror among Nagpurians. Citizens who were already troubled by the three-month lockdown do not want it again. If there is no need for lockdown again, then citizens, traders should follow the rules, there should be public awareness. “Raut misled everyone by making an uncalled-for statement,” Jadhav said. Congress MLA and city president Vikas Thakre already told TOI a 15-day lockdown would affect common people the most. “If a complete lockdown is to be enforced, the administration should then ensure all citizens have food to eat,” he has said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjp-opposes-extended-lockdown-proposal-in-city/articleshow/77228716.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 29, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Amidst mandir euphoria, no talk of alternate masjid||AYODHYA: Amidst the euphoria over construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya, gloom shrouds Dhannipur village, 25km off Ramjanmabhoomi, where 5acre land was allotted alongside a Sufi shrine for building the mosque in lieu of Babri masjid as mandated by Supreme Court. This obscure hamlet on the fringes of Ayodhya, which shot to prominence after it was chosen as the site of mosque and Islamic centre of learning, has slipped into the shadows with Sunni Waqf Board, mandated by the apex court to build the mosque, yet to decide on formation of a trust.Speaking to TOI, Mohammad Shoib, chief executive officer (CEO), Sunni Waqf Board, said, “We are yet to get physical possession of the land. Only then we can decide on setting up a Trust or hammer out our future course of action. Nothing has been decided yet.” Residents of this Muslim-dominated village are battling the pandemic and are interned in their homes. Enthusiasm over construction of the mosque has ebbed with time, unlike the jubilation that swept the village one-and-half years ago as reported by TOI on February 7, 2019. “It would have been better, the waqf board considers building a hospital here so that we get better medical facilities. Coronavirus has hit us hard,” said Shadaab, a villager. After the apex court mandated allotment five acres to Sunni Central Waqf Board at a ‘prominent place’ in Ayodhya in its 2019 verdict, the Uttar Pradesh government allocated 5acre at Dhannipur village behind Raunahi police station of the district. Talking to TOI, Dhannipur village pradhan Rakesh Yadav said, “The joy has fizzled out. The village wears a deserted look and residents only discuss coronavirus and their financial future. Nobody wants to talk about the mosque. Their reactions are muted and most have lost interest. When the village was chosen, we were happy and hoped to draw national attention and funds for development, but nothing has moved since then.” Member of Sunni Waqf Board and senior advocate of Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court, Abdul Razzaq, said, “Extension of Sunni Waqf Board’s tenure was not according to law. The government must hold fresh elections and constitute a new board. The board’s term was extended as it had earlier accepted 5acre land in Dhannipur and was ready to constitute a committee to build the mosque.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/amidst-mandir-euphoria-no-talk-of-alternate-masjid/articleshow/77230670.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
July 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Activists urge govt to deploy teachers in tribal areas||Coimbatore: Tribal activists wrote to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, on Tuesday, urging him to take necessary steps to deploy teachers to teach the students in tribal settlements in the district as they don’t have access for online classes.“More than 500 students from the tribal settlements would be affected because of the state government’s decision to provide education through online classes and television. The settlements do not have electricity connections and the families can not afford to purchase a smartphone,” said VS Paramasivam, district president of Tamil Nadu tribal people welfare association. Instead, he said, the government should take necessary steps to deploy teachers for the welfare of the students. “It would be more than sufficient if the government appoints a couple of teachers for every four to five settlements in each forest range and classes could be conducted at the nearby government school at least for a half a day. Similar method could be adopted for the settlements in plain region,” he said. He also urged the government to take steps to provide meal twice a day to the students and to arrange transportation facilities for them as the bus services are halted in the wake of increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the district. This is the only way that these tribal children can be provided with education and the government could ensure social distancing norms and other guidelines to contain the spread of the virus, he said and added that a policy level decision should be taken to appoint teachers for the tribal students across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/activists-urge-govt-to-deploy-teachers-in-tribal-areas/articleshow/77229958.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||CP orders strict actions against loan sharks||Ahmedabad: After the suicide of plywood businessman Sushil Tibrewal, who jumped off the 12th floor of Safal Parivesh on Corporate Road in Prahlandnagar, city police commissioner Ashish Bhatia issued a circular to police stations across the city on to Saturday, directing them take strict action under Section 384 and 387 of the IPC for extortion, and if moneylenders are lending large sums without licences and at higher interest rates then prescribed by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) should also be invoked. Bhatia had issued a similar circular in January, when the number of cases of illegal moneylenders harassing people was increasing. According to Anandnagar police, Tibrewal suffered heavy losses during the lockdown and had borrowed Rs 20 lakhs from Omprakash Punjabi, at 5% monthly interest. As he could not cope with the high interest rate, he killed himself on July 23. The circular says that such elements are exploiting the current situation and lending money at high interest rates and recovering more money than they are owed. Sometimes, they illegally snatch property of the borrower and a law to prevent this, the Gujarat Money Lenders Act 2011, is in place. Police officers who do not act against such illegal moneylenders in a timely fashion will subject to strict departmental action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cp-orders-strict-actions-against-loan-sharks/articleshow/77207481.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
July 29, 2020||Delhi||Careers at stake: HC slams Delhi University’s tardiness||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Tuesday questioned Delhi University on its lack of preparedness and facilities for the differently abled students to enable them to appear in the open book examinations for final-year undergraduate courses. The court also wanted to know how many students in the Persons with Disabilities (PwD) category have applied to take exams through common service centres. However, the university was unable to respond to the query and sought time to get the details. “This is how you are concerned for the career of PwD students? We are aware that the challenge to UGC guidelines is before the Supreme Court. But we will surely ask questions about your preparedness for the exams,” a bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said while hearing two petitions by a law student and National Federation of Blind. The pleas sought effective mechanisms for visually impaired and specially-abled students so that they can get online education properly during the Covid-19 pandemic. “I am sure DU is aware of the fact that the career of students is at stake, how can you be so slow,” justice Kohli wondered. The bench further sought to know if the claim of petitioners that PwD students are not being given reading material, assistant devices and writing scribes, is true. Despite directions, DU has not filed its affidavit in the matter yet, it added. “It is important for us to know that if the students who have asked for scribes will be able to interact with them two days before the exams?,” the bench said while noting the submission of senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who appeared for the law student, that scribe must be given to the student before the exams to know the suitability. The high court then asked the representative of CSE Academy, which will help the varsity in conducting the exams, to be present before it on July 30, to know how many CSE centres across the country are situated in metropolitan and rural areas.Senior advocate RS Rhungta, appearing for National Federation of Blind, said around 200 visually challenged students did not participate in the mock tests as reading material was not provided to them. One of the college principals said they were not able to provide scribe as it was not possible to give scribe during the pandemic time without knowing the health status of the student, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/careers-at-stake-hc-slams-dus-tardiness/articleshow/77230682.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Rajkot||Loan sharks booked for threatening two traders||Rajkot: Three loan sharks were booked on Tuesday for threatening and harassing two brothers running a wholesale stationary business at Paravadi Chowk in Rajkot.The two brothers — Abed Ali Ujjainwala (30) and Mustufa Ujjainwala (36) — had ingested poison to attempt suicide in the parking area of Rajkot city police commissioner’s office on Monday afternoon. The brothers have been admitted to Rajkot civil hospital where their condition is said to be stable.Based on complaint lodged by Abed Ali, Rajkot B Division police inspector M B Osura said that cops have booked money lenders Hakabhai of Krishna Finance, Indrajeet Makwana and Gaurav Makwana. “All three have been booked for harassment, issuing threats and under the Money Lenders Act,” said Osura.According to police, the Ujjainwala brothers had been running the stationary business for the past 10 years. About three years ago, they took a total loan of Rs 25 lakh — Rs 15 lakh from Krishna Finance, Rs 6 lakh from Indrajeet and Rs 4 lakh from Gaurav — for expanding their business. The were paying monthly interest of 3-5% to the money lenders, said police.However, in 2019 the brothers faced financial losses and could not pay the monthly instalments. In his complaint, Abed stated that they started getting threats from the accused from September last year. After that the brothers shifted to Indore, their native place. But the accused began to harass their relative Hozefa who lived in Rajkot. Abed said that even Hozefa had to shift to other city because of the constant harassment by the accused.About 15 days back, the two brother returned to Gujarat and were staying at their in-laws’ house in Jamnagar city. The accused, somehow, got information and started threatening them. The duo then decided to make representation to the Rajkot police commissioner and reached his office with their wives on Monday. But before making any complaint, the two brothers drank some poisonous substance and collapsed. They were shifted to the civil hospital, where based on their statement a complaint was lodged against the three money lenders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/loan-sharks-booked-for-threatening-two-traders/articleshow/77227304.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Salem||Rs 500 fine for spitting in public places in Salem||As Covid-19 is spreading in the state, the Salem district administration has imposed a fine of Rs 500 against people who are spitting in public places. The order will come into effect immediatly, collector S A Raman said. Even as health experts and the state government are insisting that people should wear face masks outside their houses, many people are spitting in public places without realizing that coronaviris would spread through saliva, the collector said. The order, which will implemented across the district, was issued to deter people from such acts. “People who are caught spitting in public places will be slapped with Rs 500 fine under Section 2 of the Epidemic Diseases Act,1897,” the collector said. He appealed to people for cooperation the administration to curb the pandemic in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/rs-500-fine-for-spitting-in-public-places-in-salem/articleshow/77229963.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Delhi||Row over height: MP, mayor visit Ghazipur landfill site||NEW DELHI: Following controversies over East Delhi Municipal Corporation’s claims of reducing the height of the Ghazipur landfill by 40 feet, East Delhi MP Gautam Gambhir and mayor Nirmal Jain inspected the site on Tuesday and found reduction in heights in different stretches. They were accompanied by local resident welfare association (RWA) members. One of them, Vinod K Nair, president of Pocket D SFS Flats RWA in Mayur Vihar-III, said the corporation and the MP had definitely taken steps to reduce the height. “We could see eight trommel machines for processing legacy waste and the height of landfill has come down by more than 33ft,” said Nair. Gambhir said during the visit that it was the legacy waste of various governments for over 20 years. “I will still try to reduce the height as much as possible during my tenure because it was my priority from Day 1 and we all will have to work together to get rid of this disgusting nightmare,” he said. The exercise started last October with one trommel machine-cum-ballistic separator to segregate solid waste and inert materials, the MP said, adding that plans were afoot to get four more machines. Residents, however, pointed out that these machines couldn’t process fresh garbage while it would take three-four years to complete the processing of old degraded garbage. They have submitted their objections to the corporation. “The fresh dump is growing on the rear side of the landfill and its height will automatically increase in four years. So chances are that we have to face the same situation if no timely action is taken. Residential colonies also need to transport minimum waste to the landfill,” said Nair. The landfill has approximately 140 lakh tonnes of waste and the corporation claims to have processed 1.3 lakh tonne legacy waste. TOI found three sets of machines — two with three trommels each and another with two trommels. Corporation commissioner Dilraj Kaur, who was also present, said, “The eight trommel machines are processing 1,500 metric tonnes of waste daily. After segregation, some waste go to waste-to-energy plants and some to the construction and demolition plant in Shastri Park. The remaining inert material is sent to parks, NTPC plants and other places.” Kaur assured that there would be no increase in height again as fresh waste was not being dumped over existing mounds. AAP legislator Kuldeep Kumar, however, claimed on Tuesday, “No work was done in the past one year, and the width of the landfill has increased.” The internal road of the landfill, which was just 10 feet in diameter, has become 30 feet due to the excessive garbage dumping, he alleged. “This is causing havoc for the people of the B block area near the landfill site,” Kumar claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/row-over-height-mp-mayor-visit-landfill-site/articleshow/77229962.cms||Vibha Sharma
July 29, 2020||Patna||North Bihar rivers in spate as floods hit 5 lakh more in 12 districts||PATNA: Several rivers in north Bihar showed a rising trend following fresh showers as over 5 lakh more people were affected by the floods on Tuesday. According to state disaster management department (DMD), the population affected by floods surged from 24.43 lakh on Monday to 29.62 lakh in 12 districts till Tuesday evening. The water resources department WRD bulletin said most rivers in north Bihar, except Bhutahi Balan and Lalbakeya, were flowing above danger level at many places. Bagmati and Adhwara group of rivers were also flowing above the corresponding danger level at 11 flood gauges in Sitamarhi, Sheohar, Madhubani, Darbhanga and Muzaffarpur districts. Burhi Gandak was flowing above the danger level at all four flood gauges in Muzaffarpur, Samastipur and Khagaria districts. Kamla Balan was also above danger level at both flood gauges in Madhubani district. A DMD bulletin stated that 2.62 lakh people have been evacuated to safer places and 22,997 persons were staying in relief camps and 4.19 lakh people were being provided with meal twice a day at 808 community kitchens. WRD minister Sanjay Kumar Jha said Gandak, Burhi Gandak and Bagmati rivers remained turbulent. “There has been moderate to heavy rainfall in the catchment area of Gandak in the last 24 hours,” Jha told TOI. He said 2.27 lakh cusecs were discharged in the Gandak through Valmikinagar barrage as on Tuesday evening and it was showing a falling trend. The Patna Meteorological Centre said light to moderate rainfall occurred at a few places over north-central and south Bihar, many places over north-west part and most places over northeast parts of the state during the last 24 hours. Also, heavy rainfall occurred at one or two places over north Bihar. DMD sources said airdropping of food packets by three Indian Air Force choppers continued while 18 teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and nine teams of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) were involved in rescue and relief operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/north-bihar-rivers-in-spate-as-floods-hit-5-lakh-more-in-12-districts/articleshow/77227318.cms||Piyush Tripathi
July 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||DGP’s Commendation Disc awarded||Ahmedabad: In a first, Gujarat Police awarded the DGP’s Commendation Disc, to police personnel and officers to recognize their services to the state. The awards were handed over at at a function at the Karai Police Training Academy on Monday, with Covid precautions firmly in place. Those given the award include two additional DGPs, five IGPs, one DIG, six SP-rank officers, 16-DSP rank officers, 16 inspectors, 10 PSIs, 10 ASIs, 22 head constables and 22 constables. Before Gujarat, states like Assam, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Kerala used to give such awards to their police personnel. DGP Shivanand Jha said such awards are also given in paramilitary forces like the Border Security Force (BSF) and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF). Jha said personnel from all ranks have worked as frontline warrior against Covid-19. “To motivate them, with the approval of the government, the awards were handed over to 110 personnel and including 13 IPS officers,” Jha said. So far, medals were only awarded to police officers by the President of India and were few and far between. “A lot of personnel who had done good work could not be accommodated. To motivate such personnel, Jha had sent a proposal to the government and the state home department approved the DGP’s Commendation Disc award. It will now be given every year to personnel of all ranks,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dgps-commendation-disc-awarded/articleshow/77207494.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Delhi||Nearly 3L job seekers register on portal||New Delhi: In the past two days, the mobile phone of Harpreet Singh Dua, CEO of Dua Capital Private Ltd, hasn’t stopped ringing. The number of missed calls on his phone are now a whopping 2,500.Dua’s south Delhi-based firm, which deals in all kinds of financial products and is primarily a distributor of bonds, has a vacancy for two computer operators for a monthly salary of Rs 16,000 each. Dua has posted about these openings on Delhi government’s new job portal, jobs.delhi.gov.in. “The response is just huge and my phone is now connected to a charger or power bank 24x7 as I’m unable to receive all calls or reply to the messages,” he said.Rozgar Bazaar was launched by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday to bridge the gap between job seekers and employers and help revive the economy. Till 6.50pm on Wednesday, 2,89,643 job seekers have registered on the portal and 6,766 recruiters have posted about more than one lakh openings under 32 categories.Highest number of job seekers — 1,04,086 — want back office and data entry jobs. There are 41,990 others who are looking for customer care and telecaller jobs, while 26,211 IT, hardware and network engineers have also applied.The largest number of openings, 1,17,576, are for sales, marketing and business development jobs, while it has 43,080 job seekers. The other top categories for job seekers include educational (46,474), accounts (37,830), human resources and office administration (31,989), warehouse and logistical support (30,805), reception (30,619) and delivery services (24,503).Among the top categories of jobs available after sales, marketing and business development are customer care and telecalling (17,913), human resources and administration (9,548), driving (8,224), education (8,114), beauty parlours, spas and wellness activities (7,073), accountancy (6,107), peons (6,088), delivery services (4,885) and construction (4,358).Job providers are, however, wondering how to select candidates. “We need an accountant and are willing to pay a salary of up to Rs 20,000 a month. I have received hundreds of calls and asked everyone to mail us their resume but choosing one person from so many is difficult,” said the owner of a Rohini-based firm.“With the number of calls I am getting from those outside Delhi-NCR, I need to hire a person just to attend to calls,” said Vineet Agarwal, who needs 50 construction workers for a project in the capital. “There is a huge shortage of workers in Delhi-NCR and the response has been huge. The problem is workers with all levels of skill sets are calling constantly though our requirement is particular,” he said. “The initiative is good but employers should get more space to put specific requirements,” Agarwal pointed out.Not everyone needs highly qualified workers or many of them. Hemant Singhal, a resident of Vashisht Park near Janakpuri, needs to add a floor to his house but can’t find skilled masons for the past four months. “A few who were available were asking for a fortune. After I posted on the portal, many skilled masons have called and they are willing to work according to my budget,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nearly-3l-job-seekers-register-on-portal/articleshow/77250713.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 29, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kodiyeri trying to spread communalism: Ramesh||Thiruvananthapuram: Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has accused CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan of trying to spread communalism. “His words raise doubts about this secular credentials,” Ramesh said. “Kodiyeri is trying to incite communalism, but it will not have any impact. The public have no doubt about my secular credentials. Kodiyeri should not force me to reveal more about his credentials. He knows well about the various aspects of gold smuggling and its implications. Therefore, he is trying to divert attention,” said Ramesh. Kodiyeri had recently said that BJP wanted Chennithala to head the UDF, replacing former chief minister Oommen Chandy and P K Kunhalikutty. Consultancy for Sabarimala airportChennithala flayed the appointment of Louis Berger, a US-headquartered global professional services firm, as the consultant for the proposed Sabarimala greenfield airport, violating norms and pointed out that chief minister’s office (CMO) is using consultancy to indulge in corruption. Louis Berger was appointed as consultant in 2017, even before the government finalized the site for the airport. How can a government appoint a consultant even before the site for the airport is identified? he asked. While the government is now proposing Cheruvally Estate in Erumely as the site of the airport, representatives of Louis Berger couldn’t even enter the land, he said. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan while replying to the allegations levelled by the opposition leader said the consultant was appointed to conduct a feasibility study for the proposed airport project at the Cheruvally estate. “There is no need for waiting till the legal dispute of ownership of the land is over to conduct the feasibility study. The government is sure of getting the ownership and hence went ahead with the appointment of the consultant. Those against the airport project are coming out with such baseless allegations,” Vijayan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kodiyeri-trying-to-spread-communalism-ramesh/articleshow/77228704.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Jaipur||Ashok Gehlot firm on July 31 session, says governor advice ‘not binding’||JAIPUR: Adamant about its stand on convening the Rajasthan assembly session from July 31, the Ashok Gehlot government on Tuesday sent yet another proposal — its third since July 23 — to governor Kalraj Mishra, who a day earlier had advised the government to follow three points, including serving a 21-day notice to legislators before calling the session. Parliamentary affairs minister Shanti Dhariwal told TOI, “There is no rule binding on us to serve a 21-day notice for calling sessions, which have been convened on much shorter notices on several occasions in the past.” The embattled Congress government’s fresh proposal does not talk about a trust vote — TOI reported on Tuesday that the cabinet wouldn’t commit itself to one — saying that setting an agenda for the House is the right of the assembly’s business advisory committee (BAC). On Monday, Mishra mentioned that seeking a trust vote could justify convening the assembly at a short notice. On the governor’s third advice — making safety arrangements to counter the Covid-19 risk in the House — the government responded that managing the affairs of the Vidhan Sabha was the prerogative of the Speaker. Asked if the cabinet has mentioned the trust vote in the revised proposal, Dhariwal said: “The House agenda is decided by the BAC. We want to discuss the state’s Covid-19 and financial conditions. Other issues could be taken up if the BAC approves.” After a nearly two-hour long cabinet meeting, revenue minister Harish Chaudhary said: “The governor should let the cabinet’s rights remain with the cabinet, the speaker’s right to remain with the speaker and perform his own duty.” Transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said, “We have sought the assembly session from July 31 as recommended by the cabinet earlier also.” On the Governor returning the cabinet recommendations twice between July 24 and 27, transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said: “If the President denies Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for convening a Lok Sabha session, can the nation function? We do not want a confrontation with the Governor, who is the head of our family. But, Article 163 clearly states that a Governor cannot reject the cabinet proposal.” “Entire BJP is functioning like slaves of the Congress rebels (Sachin Pilot camp). The Assembly session will not be convened if these rebels tell the BJP not to do so. Politics is being done ignoring the constitution,” said Kachariyawas, accusing the BJP of trying to topple the Congress government. AICC general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan, Avinash Pande took to Twitter to question the Governor’s decision. In a series of tweets with hashtag #GetWellSoonGovernor, Pande wrote, “The Governor is adopting a partial attitude to fulfil the interests of a particular party.” Mishra returned the cabinet’s first recommendation while raising six queries on July 24 and the second recommendation while asking government response on the 3-point advice from him on July 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-firm-on-july-31-session-says-guv-advice-not-binding/articleshow/77229965.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 29, 2020||Delhi||Expect heavy rain on Wednesday and Thursday in Delhi||NEW DELHI: India Meteorological Department has issued an orange alert for the capital for the next two days, forecasting moderate to heavy rain for Wednesday and Thursday. While most areas are expected to record moderate showers, isolated spots in NCR may receive heavy rainfall — exceeding 65mm in a 24-hour period. IMD’s impact-based forecast has suggested that people check for traffic congestion as waterlogging is likely to occur. Kuldeep Srivastava, IMD scientist and head of the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre in Delhi, said the monsoon trough that was running close to the foothills of the Himalayas has moved. It is now passing through Delhi-NCR, which is likely to increase the intensity of rain. “There is a combination of factors at play. Along with the monsoon trough, south-westerly winds from Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal are approaching Haryana, NCR, west Uttar Pradesh and northeast Rajasthan. Under the influence of these systems, heavy to very heavy rain may occur over these areas,” said Srivastava. IMD classifies rainfall recorded between 2.5 and 15.5mm as ‘light’, between 15.6mm and 64.4mm as ‘moderate’, between 64.5 and 115.5mm as ‘heavy’ and beyond 115.6mm in a 24-hour period as ‘very heavy’. Delhi has already received excess rain at Safdarjung, Palam and Lodhi Road stations for the month of July. However, the city has an overall 24% deficit so far this season. Met officials said that the spell of rain in the next two days could change that situation. The maximum temperature on Tuesday was 37.5 degrees — three notches above the normal for this time of the season and the minimum was 28.7 degrees Celsius, with the humidity levels oscillating between 61% and 95%. Forecast for Wednesday shows moderate to heavy showers with the maximum and minimum likely to hover around 35 and 26 degrees Celsius, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/expect-heavy-rain-today-and-tomorrow/articleshow/77230688.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Jaipur||Covid clusters: Lockdown likely in select Rajasthan areas||JAIPUR: Following a surge in active Covid-19 cases, which zoomed past the 10,000 mark in the state on Monday, the state government might take the tough decision to impose a lockdown in certain areas that are currently witnessing a spike. In areas where the pandemic threatens to spiral out of control, district collectors have been authorised to take the decision to impose the lockdown based on the situation Currently, the state government is creating micro containment zones covering three-four houses in a neighborhood where one or more persons test positive. Initially, the containment zones were bigger in size covering more than 1km area around the affected place. However, to boost economic activities, the state government is now allowing micro containment zones. But in certain areas, where cases are being reported in clusters, the state government may impose lockdown. The health department has analysed the situation in the entire state to find out districts which are currently the worst-hit due to Covid. They are being identified based on the number of active cases. The more the number of such cases in an area, the more the chances of the spread of the virus. In the current situation, the state government is focused more on containing the spread of the virus in such areas. “Lockdown may be imposed in areas in certain areas where the cases have been increasing. Necessary directions have been issued to district collectors on it,” said health minister Raghu Sharma. Apart from health department officials and doctors, district collectors too will play a key role in containing the virus. “If local circumstances, in terms of the pattern of the spread of infection, warrant a tough measure, the district administration has been authorised to take a call in this regard at the local level in consultation with concerned stakeholders,” said additional chief secretary (home) Rohit Kumar Singh. The health department is also taking tough measures in Jodhpur and Alwar, which are the worst-affected districts in the state currently. Officials in the two districts have been directed to intensify contact tracing and random sampling. The capacity of testing has also been increased to 42,540 per day. So far, more than 14 lakh samples have been tested in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-clusters-lockdownlikely-in-select-raj-areas/articleshow/77229975.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
July 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Students of budget schools await televised lessons||HYDERABAD: It’s not just government school students alone, those from private budget schools too are waiting for the state to telecast lessons through television channels. About 50% of budget schools are yet to start online classes for students, owing to financial constraints. About half of the 11,000 budget schools in the state have either tied up with edtech firms or are asking teachers to conduct online classes for their students. The remaining, however, are yet to take an initiative because they do not have the funds to do so as the parents haven’t cleared the dues of the last academic year, say managements. “Despite students and their parents making multiple requests, we have not started online classes - not even for class 10 students. There is hardly any money to pay salaries, rent, and electricity bills and hence there is no way I can afford online classes,” said Kashireddy Adireddy, correspondent-cum-principal of SRK English Medium School, which has 490 students. He said that unless parents clear pending fees and the government provides some financial help, he has no option but to close the school. He added that if the government starts telecasting classes through DD Yadagiri or any other channels, his students too will benefit. Schools said that although it is not an ideal solution, students will at least have a chance to continue their education. “There are schools, which are not even in a position to pay salaries to two or three teachers to oversee online classes. The association is trying their best to help them by providing live and recorded classes, but in rural areas even connectivity is an issue. So, telecasting lessons through channels is the best solution for students,” said Y Shekar Rao, president, Telangana Recognized Schools Managements Association (TRSMA). The TRSMA members said that they are uploading lessons to video streaming platforms and are ready to provide live classes to government school students too. They said that the initiatives being taken by the government and TRSMA should benefit both private and government school students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/students-of-budget-schools-await-televised-lessons/articleshow/77229972.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
July 29, 2020||Udaipur||Covid clusters: Lockdown likely in select Rajasthan areas||JAIPUR: Following a surge in active Covid-19 cases, which zoomed past the 10,000 mark in the state on Monday, the state government might take the tough decision to impose a lockdown in certain areas that are currently witnessing a spike. In areas where the pandemic threatens to spiral out of control, district collectors have been authorised to take the decision to impose the lockdown based on the situation Currently, the state government is creating micro containment zones covering three-four houses in a neighborhood where one or more persons test positive. Initially, the containment zones were bigger in size covering more than 1km area around the affected place. However, to boost economic activities, the state government is now allowing micro containment zones. But in certain areas, where cases are being reported in clusters, the state government may impose lockdown. The health department has analysed the situation in the entire state to find out districts which are currently the worst-hit due to Covid. They are being identified based on the number of active cases. The more the number of such cases in an area, the more the chances of the spread of the virus. In the current situation, the state government is focused more on containing the spread of the virus in such areas. “Lockdown may be imposed in areas in certain areas where the cases have been increasing. Necessary directions have been issued to district collectors on it,” said health minister Raghu Sharma. Apart from health department officials and doctors, district collectors too will play a key role in containing the virus. “If local circumstances, in terms of the pattern of the spread of infection, warrant a tough measure, the district administration has been authorised to take a call in this regard at the local level in consultation with concerned stakeholders,” said additional chief secretary (home) Rohit Kumar Singh. The health department is also taking tough measures in Jodhpur and Alwar, which are the worst-affected districts in the state currently. Officials in the two districts have been directed to intensify contact tracing and random sampling. The capacity of testing has also been increased to 42,540 per day. So far, more than 14 lakh samples have been tested in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/covid-clusters-lockdownlikely-in-select-raj-areas/articleshow/77233234.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
July 29, 2020||Kolkata||In Sunderbans, tiger scores big, so does its prey: Study||KOLKATA: The detailed report on ‘Tigers, Co-predators and Prey in India’, released in New Delhi on Tuesday, reveals that wild pig and spotted deer — the main prey species of tigers in the Indian Sunderbans — are widely distributed in the landscape, with both of them turning out to be the most common species of the mangroves. Palm civet and estuarine crocodile are the rarest to be clicked. Occupancy of tigers across the landscape is almost 100%. This, according to experts, points to a good habitat. While spotted deer was captured throughout the landscape with highest concentration of photo-captures in Sajnekhali Wildlife Sanctuary, wild pig was also found to be distributed throughout the Sunderbans with highest concentration of photographs in the biosphere reserve area — the buffer zone. As per the report, Indian Sunderbans is home to 88 tigers. Of the two other prey species — rhesus macaque and monitor lizard — both have highest concentration in Sajnekhali sanctuary area. Interestingly, tiger density was also found to be high in this zone. West range of tiger reserve and parts of biosphere reserve, too, have high tiger density. Estuarine crocodile was one of the rarest species to be photo-captured. “But, one should keep in mind that camera traps are not the most ideal equipment to evaluate this semi-aquatic reptile’s distribution,” said the report. Palm civet, too, was captured only at the edges of the buffer zone of Basirhat range. While cameras clicked about 10 and 19 photographs of deer and wild pigs, respectively, per 100 trap nights, they failed to capture a single saltwater crocodile and palm civet over the same duration. A trap night is one trap set for one night. Number of tiger photos per 100 trap nights is three. Golden jackal was captured for the first time in the tiger reserve area and it seems to be a “recent colonizer” restricted to the mangrove forest edges of Sajnekhali sanctuary and islands of the biosphere reserve adjacent to human settlements. Among the other key species, leopard cats and fishing cats were clicked throughout the landscape. Otters were primarily clicked in the core zone of the forest and beside wide river channels. According to Y V Jhala of Wildlife Institute of India, one of the co-authors of the report, within Sunderbans tiger population, low to medium level of genetic diversity has been reported. “The primary concern regarding threats to genetic heterogeneity of this population is the probable isolation induced by wide rivers. Earlier reports found that tigers rarely crossed channels wider than 400m. There are reports of fine-scale genetic structure and clustering within the tiger population of Bangladesh Sunderbans that could largely be attributed to river systems. Though tigers have been observed to occasionally disperse across wide rivers, increased continuous use of water channels inside forest as conduit for commercial boat traffic can transform the rivers to barriers to tiger movement,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-sunderbans-tiger-scores-big-so-does-its-prey-study/articleshow/77228770.cms||Krishnendu Mukherjee
July 29, 2020||Nagpur||10 free Covid ambulances to be deployed across city||Nagpur: A day after Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) permitted home isolation of asymptomatic Covid patients, it has decided to deploy one ambulance each in all 10 zones in the city. For this purpose, the civic body has hired private ambulances. The civic body will also deploy 10 Aapli buses at the zonal level, revealed a senior official on Tuesday. According to the official, these ambulances, manned by paramedical staff, will have basic first aid facilities and will be under the control of zonal medical officers of NMC. At present, NMC is using its seven ambulances to ferry suspected cases to hospitals and quarantine centres. Of the 11 ambulances of Maharashtra government’s 108 Service, the civic body is using four to ferry only Covid-19 patients. In May, the civic body had converted three of its mini buses into ambulances with basic first aid kits. These buses were being used to shift people from containment zones to quarantine centres. “After allowing asymptomatic patients to stay at home, it was the NMC’s responsibility to monitor their health,” said the official. These ambulances along with paramedical staff will be available at every zone’s office round-the-clock for extending emergency relief to Covid patients. “In case of emergency, the asymptomatic patients can contact the NMC’s control room and get quicker medical help. If needed, these ambulances will also shift serious patients to either Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) or Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) whichever is closer,” he explained. The officer said these ambulances will be available 24X7. The rates, to be paid by NMC, have been fixed by the regional transport authority headed by district collector Ravindra Thakare and regional transport office staff as members. The ambulances were hired along with drivers and fuel expenditure. As per the RTA’s decision and civic chief’s nod, the NMC will pay Rs1,900 per day for each ambulance. The NMC, however, will provide the service free of cost to home quarantined Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/10-free-covid-ambulances-to-be-deployed-across-city/articleshow/77228755.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 29, 2020||Erode||Water from Bhavanisagar to be released||Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Tuesday ordered release of water from Bhavanisagar dam in Erode district starting August 1 for irrigation purposes. In a press release, the chief minister stated that water from the dam would be released continuously for 120 days till November 28. “Around 8,812.80 mcft (million cubic feet) water will be released to irrigate 24,504 acres of land in Gobichettipalayam, Bhavani and Andhiyur taluks of Erode district,” Palaniswami said. He appealed farmers to use water judiciously. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/water-from-bhavanisagar-to-be-released/articleshow/77229971.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Ajmer||Covid clusters: Lockdown likely in select Rajasthan areas||JAIPUR: Following a surge in active Covid-19 cases, which zoomed past the 10,000 mark in the state on Monday, the state government might take the tough decision to impose a lockdown in certain areas that are currently witnessing a spike. In areas where the pandemic threatens to spiral out of control, district collectors have been authorised to take the decision to impose the lockdown based on the situation Currently, the state government is creating micro containment zones covering three-four houses in a neighborhood where one or more persons test positive. Initially, the containment zones were bigger in size covering more than 1km area around the affected place. However, to boost economic activities, the state government is now allowing micro containment zones. But in certain areas, where cases are being reported in clusters, the state government may impose lockdown. The health department has analysed the situation in the entire state to find out districts which are currently the worst-hit due to Covid. They are being identified based on the number of active cases. The more the number of such cases in an area, the more the chances of the spread of the virus. In the current situation, the state government is focused more on containing the spread of the virus in such areas. “Lockdown may be imposed in areas in certain areas where the cases have been increasing. Necessary directions have been issued to district collectors on it,” said health minister Raghu Sharma. Apart from health department officials and doctors, district collectors too will play a key role in containing the virus. “If local circumstances, in terms of the pattern of the spread of infection, warrant a tough measure, the district administration has been authorised to take a call in this regard at the local level in consultation with concerned stakeholders,” said additional chief secretary (home) Rohit Kumar Singh. The health department is also taking tough measures in Jodhpur and Alwar, which are the worst-affected districts in the state currently. Officials in the two districts have been directed to intensify contact tracing and random sampling. The capacity of testing has also been increased to 42,540 per day. So far, more than 14 lakh samples have been tested in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/covid-clusters-lockdownlikely-in-select-raj-areas/articleshow/77233235.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
July 29, 2020||Jodhpur||Covid clusters: Lockdown likely in select Rajasthan areas||JAIPUR: Following a surge in active Covid-19 cases, which zoomed past the 10,000 mark in the state on Monday, the state government might take the tough decision to impose a lockdown in certain areas that are currently witnessing a spike. In areas where the pandemic threatens to spiral out of control, district collectors have been authorised to take the decision to impose the lockdown based on the situation Currently, the state government is creating micro containment zones covering three-four houses in a neighborhood where one or more persons test positive. Initially, the containment zones were bigger in size covering more than 1km area around the affected place. However, to boost economic activities, the state government is now allowing micro containment zones. But in certain areas, where cases are being reported in clusters, the state government may impose lockdown. The health department has analysed the situation in the entire state to find out districts which are currently the worst-hit due to Covid. They are being identified based on the number of active cases. The more the number of such cases in an area, the more the chances of the spread of the virus. In the current situation, the state government is focused more on containing the spread of the virus in such areas. “Lockdown may be imposed in areas in certain areas where the cases have been increasing. Necessary directions have been issued to district collectors on it,” said health minister Raghu Sharma. Apart from health department officials and doctors, district collectors too will play a key role in containing the virus. “If local circumstances, in terms of the pattern of the spread of infection, warrant a tough measure, the district administration has been authorised to take a call in this regard at the local level in consultation with concerned stakeholders,” said additional chief secretary (home) Rohit Kumar Singh. The health department is also taking tough measures in Jodhpur and Alwar, which are the worst-affected districts in the state currently. Officials in the two districts have been directed to intensify contact tracing and random sampling. The capacity of testing has also been increased to 42,540 per day. So far, more than 14 lakh samples have been tested in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/covid-clusters-lockdownlikely-in-select-raj-areas/articleshow/77233233.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
July 29, 2020||Nagpur||‘Shocked’ accused moves HC against unhygienic conditions inside temporary jail||Nagpur: A “shocked and surprised” accused moved the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court exposing unhygienic conditions inside the temporary jail set up at Mount Carmel High School at Ajni Square, warning that there’s every chance of 250 inmates getting infected with Covid-19 virus. Petitioner Sunil Meshram, who was released on bail on July 12, claimed that no social distancing was maintained by either the inmates or officials and even masks are a rarity. He prayed for immediately implementing of ‘Maharashtra Prisons Manual’ provisions and guidelines issued for dealing with the coronavirus by the government and WHO. A division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Nitin Suryawanshi while issuing notices to respondents — State Department of Home secretary, DGP (Prisons), and Central Jail Superintendent — kept the case for disposal after eight weeks. The 48-year-old accused, through counsel Rajnish Vyas, highlighted respondents inaction in providing proper facilities to the petitioners as per ‘Maharashtra prisons (Prison, Building and Sanitary Arrangement) Rule, 1954’. Several guidelines are framed, including cleaning the barracks, ventilation in sleeping ward and cleaning of latrines and urinals, under it. According to him, over 250 jailbirds were being kept at the temporary facility in a highly congested manner. “If one stretches his arm, it may touch two other inmates. A majority of them and officials roam freely in the facility without masks. No soap or sanitizer was provided while the drinking water is made available in a blue plastic drum without cover and all inmates use only one jar.” Claiming that only two toilets were made available for all of them, Meshram said they were made to wait in a queue for five to six hours for using them. “The conditions of toilets are worst and there’s every chance of getting infected with Covid-19 or any other infection. The inmates were not allowed to carry clothes inside for bathing which forced them to wear the same set. Even sanitization of bed was not carried out regularly and it’s kept at such a place where no sunlight reaches.” Narrating the inmates’ plight inside the temporary jail, the petitioner claimed that no testing was conducted on him while entering the premises and even after securing bail. “Neither any medical examination was held, nor any doctor was made available. It’s a sheer violation of Article 21 of the Constitution of India and also our human rights. Not only was human dignity crushed, but also violated by the jail authorities. After the outbreak in jail over 300 inmates and jail officials were infected. Still, the officials are reluctant to sanitize the premises,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/shocked-accused-moves-hc-against-unhygienic-conditions-inside-temporary-jail/articleshow/77228803.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 29, 2020||Rajkot||Man ends life due to harassment||Rajkot: A 21-year-old labourer Jayesh Bavaliya working in the ceramic industry, died on Tuesday at the Rajkot civil hospital on Tuesday after he consumed poison owing to harassment by money lenders on Sunday evening. Bavaliya had consumed poison at his home in Jinpara area of Wankaner town in Morbi district. Wankaner police has booked Sarfaraz Hussain Makwana for issuing threats, abatement to suicide and under Money Lenders Act. Bavaliya had taken loan of Rs 1.5 lakh from Makwana four months ago to start his own business in the ceramic industry. He was supposed to pay a monthly instalment of Rs 13,000 to Makwana. But with the lockdown imposed in March, Bavaliya could not repay as his business could not take off and he too could not get any work as all units were closed. Depressed over constant threats by Makwana, Bavaliya drank poison at his home on Sunday. He was rushed to Rajkot civil hospital, where he succumbed on Tuesday morning. Makwana was booked on a complaint filed by Bavaliya’s father, Somabhai. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-ends-life-due-to-harassment/articleshow/77227339.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: School unit test deadline extended to August 10||AHMEDABAD: The deadline for conducting unit tests for schools in Gujarat has been extended till August 10, said government sources.The education department had earlier directed all government-run, grant-in aid and private schools in the state to conduct exams for school students by July end. The periodic evaluation test is meant to check the progress of a child and will be conducted from the comfort of their homes under the supervision of the parents. The test will be for the main language and maths subjects. Each test will be of 25 marks. Schools were to make necessary arrangements to ensure that the question papers reach the students at their residences by July 28 latest and the parents were to submit the answer paper sheets to the respective schools by July 31. This deadline has now been revisited to August 10, said sources. The question paper will carry five questions of five marks each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/school-unit-test-deadline-extended-to-aug-10/articleshow/77207501.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Policemen pool Rs 1.1L for Covid victim’s family||Coimbatore: A grade-I police constable and his friends have pooled Rs 1.1 lakh and handed it over to the family of a 22-year-old youth, a 108 ambulance staffer, who died of Covid-19 on June 22. The youth was an emergency medical technician and was living in Mangalam on the outskirts of Tirupur. On June 9, he visited his family in Vedasandur in Dindigul district and returned to Mangalam on June 12. On June 16 night, he was rushed to the Tirupur Government Medical College and Hospital with fever and muscle pain. Two days later, he tested positive for Covid-19 and was shifted to ESI Hospital, where he died on June 22. “I watched the video of the youth's cremation on social media and decided to help the family members. I created a WhatsApp group ‘Udhavum Karangal’ (helping hands) on June 30 to collect funds for the family,” said constable Babu, attached to the Armed Reserve Police, Coimbatore. He requested his colleagues and friends to contribute to help the family. As many as 238 people heeded his call and donated to the corpus. On Monday, Babu and two of his colleagues visited the youth’s house at Vedasandur in Dindigul and handed over Rs 1.1 lakh to his parents, who have two daughters. Their son was the sole bread-winner. “Our little contribution would help the family. No one can bear the loss of a young son,” said Babu. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/policemen-pool-rs-1-1l-for-covid-victims-family/articleshow/77229979.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Intermediate Board to declare reverification results today||Hyderabad: The Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education (TSBIE) on Tuesday said that the results of the reverification and recounting of the inter exams will be available on the board’s website from July 29. The board said that a total of 37,387 students applied for reverification and 72,496 for recounting and added that the revised marks and scanned answer scripts can be downloaded from the official website of the board http://tsbie.cgg.gov.in from Wednesday. The board said that the process of reverification and recounting began on July 10 online with senior-most junior lecturers from government junior colleges. “Till date, total 71, 298 answer scripts have been reverified and the remaining 1,198 answer scripts will be updated by July 31. The revised online memos can be downloaded from TSBIE official website from August 1,” read a release from the board. To download the revised marks, students have to click on student services and select reverification of the answer scripts. For recounting, only status of the marks will be displayed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/intermediate-board-to-declare-reverification-results-today/articleshow/77229980.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Kozhikode||IUML, Jamaat have same ideology: CPM secy||Kozhikode: CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan has alleged that the relationship between IUML and Jamaat-e-Islami has become more evident with the recent article by Panakkad Syed Sadiq Ali Shihab Thangal on the Hagia Sophia issue in Turkey. In a post on his Facebook page on Tuesday, Balakrishnan claimed that IUML and Jamaat share the same position on the issue. Thangal wrote an article in Chandrika daily on July 24 welcoming Turkey President Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s act of converting Hagia Sophia into a mosque. “The ruler in Turkey converted Hagia Sophia museum into a mosque and IUML leader Sadiq Ali Thangal wrote an article justifying the act. Jamaat-e-Islami is an organization that supports Turkey government’s stand unconditionally. The tie-up between IUML and the Jamaat has become clear to the public after the IUML leader wrote the article from Jamaat’s point of view,” he alleged. The CPM leader added that both organizations have reached an ideological agreement. Congress and IUML have decided to have a coalition with SDPI and the Jamaat. Kodiyeri wanted to know the stand of the Congress leadership on Hagia Sophia issue. Balakrishnan said how could IUML, that spoke against BJP government’s stand on demolishing Babri Masjid and constructing Ram temple at the site, justify the Hagia Sophia issue. “We would like to know the UDF leadership’s stand on these questions,” he said. This is not the first time CPM is raising the issue of Jamaat-IUML tie-up. The party is keen to capitalize the discontent that exists among some Muslim organizations against the alliance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/iuml-jamaat-have-same-ideology-cpm-secy/articleshow/77228758.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Trying best to pay teachers June salary: Schools’ body||Hyderabad: The Telangana Recognized School Managements Association (TRSMA) on Tuesday said that the managements are trying their best to pay June salary to teachers as early as possible. They said that with schools starting online classes, parents are expected to pay the fee in a month or two and added that the money will be used to pay salaries. “On average, the managements have 40% of fees due from the academic year 2019-20. Because of these dues, managements are unable to pay salaries to teachers and clear other bills,” said S Madhusudhan, general secretary of TRSMA, adding that parents should also start paying June and July fee of the academic year 2020-21. The managements said that many teachers are switching to other professions to earn a livelihood and added that it would be hard to get them back at a later stage. They said that parents should cooperate with managements and pay dues to stop teachers from moving out of the teaching field as it will directly affect students in the long run. They also asked the parents to cooperate and make arrangements for their children to attend online classes as there is no other alternative to continue classes in the current situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trying-best-to-pay-teachers-june-salary-schools-body/articleshow/77229978.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Delhi||Maximum sealed zones in Delhi in areas with poor civic facilities: Report||NEW DELHI: Areas with poor civic facilities and sanitation issues are more vulnerable to Covid-19 spread, a study carried out by NGO Praja Foundation has claimed. According to the annual report on the status of civic issues in Delhi, which was released on Tuesday, the top five administrative zones with maximum number of containment zones had also reported the highest number of civic complaints related to sanitation, garbage, toilets, water and sewerage in 2019. South, Najafgarh, Shahdara South, West and Rohini zones hosted 368 sealed areas as on July 18 this year, while these also fall in the category of areas that had received the highest number of complaints last year. According to the data compiled by filing RTIs to municipal corporations and Delhi Jal Board, a total of 23,555 complaints regarding garbage and 465 toilet/sanitation-related complaints were filed in 2019. As many as 1.15 lakh complaints regarding water supply and 78,638 sewerage-related grievances were registered. “More than 56% of the civic complaints came from the five zones, which had the highest Covid-19 containment zones. Three out of the top five zones with highest containment zones also reported most water supply and solid waste management complaints,” the report states. About 55% of the garbage-related complaints, 58% of the toilet/sanitation complaints and 57% of the sewerage-related complaints had come from these five zones. Delhi has a total of 12 municipal corporation administrative zones--EDMC has two zones, SDMC hosts four and the north municipal corporation is divided into six administrative zones. According to Praja Foundation, with the entire world battling the Covid-19 pandemic, water, sanitation and hygiene have gained immense importance in the prevention of the disease. “Multiple agencies and governments in Delhi still grapple with providing basic civic services that are key determinants of health. Delhi has a long way to go in ensuring adequate, equitable and sustainable water, sanitation and solid waste management facilities, which have a direct bearing on health. Precautions to maintain hygiene do not hold valid when adequate water, sanitation and waste management facilities are not available to all,” the report states. The study also highlights that only one in four public toilets is available for females and only 5% of the city's public toilet infrastructure for handicapped people. According to the data available, maximum number of complaints made with corporations in 2019 were related to buildings (59,896), solid waste management (23,555) and nuisance due to stray dogs and monkeys (19,013). While the number of complaints in other categories dipped, sanitation/toilets and sewage categories saw 13% and 389% increase compared with the preceding year, respectively. A similar report had earlier been published for Mumbai, which also argued a correlation between poor civic amenities and Covid spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/maximum-sealed-zones-in-areas-with-poor-civic-facilities-report/articleshow/77230758.cms||Paras Singh
July 29, 2020||Bhubaneswar||In lockdown, WFH testing limits of mind and body||Bhubaneswar: It has been almost five months that Covid-19 and the subsequent lockdown to contain the virus have forced many in private and government offices to work from home. But maintaining a balance between office and household work, stuck within the confines of the four walls, is putting a great demand on the mind space of professionals, leading to burnout, fatigue and mental health issues. Complaints of stress, anxiety, fatigue, insomnia as well as physical problems like backache, headache, migraine and tiredness have reached alarming proportions and many are forced to dial the doctor. For professionals, work from home (WFH) has led to a new culture of online meetings, webinars and training modules. “There is something or the other every day, lasting from 45 minutes to 2 hours. Sometimes, they all get bunched up together on a single day, putting great stress on mind and body. Sometimes, it is not even remotely related to work, but the management asks you to participate. All this is beyond my routine work for which I am answerable. Honestly, it’s draining. Also, you need to be attentive all the time,” Sangeeta Sahoo, an IT professional. Many are complaining of exhaustion and say WFH is testing their nerves. “Recently, I got caught in a peculiar situation during a meeting. I got a call from a client and while I was discussing that, a senior sought my opinion during the office meeting. I had no clue what the question was and barely managed to save face saying there was problem with my internet connection,” said Himanshu Mohapatra, a SAP executive. For married women with children, it is a roller-coaster ride managing office work and household chores in the absence of maid and cook. “I have not only lost my mental peace, but I am facing health complications. So much screen time is affecting my vision and sitting for long hours has led to pain in my spinal cord and neck,” said Moumita Dey, a consultant in a private firm. And then there are the children. “Managing their tantrums gives me headache at times,” she added. Professionals alleged that the workload has increased substantially because managers generally overlook office timings and expect you to work at any time of the day. “It seems there is no break as the weekend seems same as the workdays. And unless you fall ill, there seems to be no other reason to seek leave,” said Subhashree Panda, a teacher who has to take three to four online classes every day. Psychiatrists said they are getting distress calls from patients with complaints of anxiety, stress and sleep disorder triggered due to work from home. “The number of patients with stress-related issues has increased. WFH without the team causes lack of motivation and with family around, people cannot concentrate either, which affects their self-confidence. People work had but due to the fear of job loss, there is a sense of insecurity,” said Subhendu Narayan Mishra, consultant psychiatrist at IMS and SUM Hospital. Experts suggested a series of minor initiatives can help in coping with the stress of WFH. “Regular routine like getting ready for the office, wearing office clothes and setting up a separate work area might help,” said Dr S K Padhy, additional professor of department of psychiatry at AIIMS, Bhubaneswar. About managing household chores, Dr Padhy said, “Sort out roles with your spouse and make a balance between cooking, online classes of children and office work.” He also suggested yoga and meditation as well as staring away from the screen time and again to avoid putting stress on the eyes. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/in-lockdown-wfh-testing-limits-of-mind-and-body/articleshow/77227404.cms||Minati Singha
July 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana government declares 1-time amnesty for property tax defaulters||HYDERABAD: The Telangana government has announced ‘One-Time Amnesty Scheme’ for clearing property tax arrears on non-government properties across the state. Under this scheme, those who have to pay property tax dues with interest need to pay just 10% of their accumulated interest along with principal amount up to 2019-2020 financial year. The scheme will be implemented in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) along with all municipalities and municipal corporations in the state for 45 days from August 1. With this, within GHMC limits over five lakh properties will be benefited up to Rs 900 crore and another Rs 100 crore in rest of the state. The municipal corporation collects 2% interest on tax arrears if a tax payer fails to clear dues in the stipulated time. The GHMC sent a proposal through the standing committee and suggested the scheme can be implemented by invoking Section 679-E of the GHMC Act and a similar provision in the other urban local bodies. “The pending arrears and interests were due mainly because of disputes about improper assessment, vacancy of premises, dilapidated structures, dispute between family members,” GHMC commissioner informed the government. Interestingly, the GHMC proposed to collect 20% of the interest from the tax payers, but the municipal administration further reduced it to 10%. The government, while allowing a one-time amnesty said the waiver of interest would be applicable provided the tax payer clears the principle amount of property tax dues till 2019-2020 together with 10% of the accumulated interest at one go. The municipal administration and urban development (MA&UD) department directed the GHMC and other municipal commissioner to take up wide publicity on the scheme from August 1 to September 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-declares-1-time-amnesty-for-property-tax-defaulters/articleshow/77229985.cms||Koride Mahesh
July 29, 2020||Nagpur||13 test positive for Covid in Wardha||WARDHA: While 13 new patients tested positive, Wardha’s total cases reached 188. With 14 on Monday and 15 on Tuesday- total 29 patients got discharged. Six deaths have been registered in the district so far. Total 53 patients are under treatment. Out of 13 new cases, highest eight were from Arvi, two each from Wardha and Pulgaon while one is from Samudrapur. Positive patients include an 82-year-old woman from Arvi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/13-test-positive-for-covid-in-wardha/articleshow/77229987.cms||Balwant Dhage
July 29, 2020||Coimbatore||321 big cats utilizing four tiger reserves in TN||Udhagamandalam: As per the updated report on India’s Tiger Survey from 2018, which was released on Tuesday, 321 tigers are utilizing the four tiger reserves such as Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR), Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR), Anaimalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) and Kalakadu Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve (KMTR) in Tamil Nadu. However, the number of tigers within the four reserves is estimated at 213, with MTR being the number one in tiger population in TN. The survey - the fourth cycle of National tiger status assessment of 2018-19 – says India is home to 2,367 tigers. The survey was released by Union minister of environment, forest and climate change. This is the first time that the survey has been updated accurately reserve-wise, based purely on camera traps. While 162 tigers utilize the MTR, the reserve accounts for 103 big cats. The second dense tiger population reserve, STR accounts for 83 tigers while 126 big cats utilize the reserve. ATR and KMTR account for 20 and seven tigers respectively. While 25 big cats utilize ATR, eight tigers utilize KMTR. “MTR which accounted for around 57 tigers in the 2014 census, now houses 103 big cats. This is the first time (2018), the buffer zone was taken into consideration for census. Of course, there is an increase of about 15% in tiger population in the reserve after the declaration of the buffer zone extending to an area of 365 sq km,” the field director of MTR, K Kaushal, said. India has 2,967 tigers, at least 30 more than in 2014, according to results of a census made public by NTCA on July 29 last year. In the same result, Tamil Nadu’s tiger population was put at 264 tigers, an increase of 15% compared to 2014 assessment. The present update is a more granular estimate of these numbers. “This is the first time, tiger survey data is being harmonized and it is refined reserve-wise,” said Srinivas R Reddy, a senior IFS officer and former field director, MTR. According to him, MTR and STR are saturated when it comes to tiger population. ART and KMTR are having much scope for increase in tiger population. All the four tiger reserves in Tamil Nadu have been ranked “very good” in the Management Effectiveness Evaluation (MEE) rating done for all the tiger reserves in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/321-big-cats-utilizing-four-tiger-reserves-in-tn/articleshow/77229984.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Vadodara||Father, son booked for forging caste certificate||Vadodara: A father-son duo was booked at the Karjan police station for making a forged certificate of socially and educationally backward class (SEBC) and using it to contest municipality elections. According to police, the accused Kamaal Khan Sandhi used the forged SEBC certificate to contest the by-election on an SEBC reserved seat in Karjan municipality in November 2015. Police said that Sandhi’s father Sumaar Khan had got the forged certificate and Sandhi despite knowing about it, used it for his candidature. The district administration initiated an inquiry after one Mehboob Khan Pathan complained. Based on the complaint, the director of developing castes welfare formed a committee. The committee’s probe revealed that the records did not have Sumaar Khan’s data so he was asked to submit his certificate. The certificate was also found to be forged and the benefits that he and the family took were declared as illegal. Police said that the executive magistrate of Karjan had directed the deputy executive magistrate to lodge a complaint in January last year. “As we received the complaint recently, we registered an offence on Monday,” said a police official. Preliminary investigation revealed that the two accused had made the fake certificate between July 2012 and January 2013.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/father-son-booked-for-forging-caste-certificate/articleshow/77227402.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cards not sanitized, gamblers booked||Ahmedabad: In a bizarre case, while raiding two gambling dens in Kalol taluka of Gandhinagar district, police not only booked 19 persons for gambling, but also charged them under Epidemic Act as they had not sanitized their cards! That apart, the gamblers were not wearing masks nor they had sanitized their hands. In the first case, Santej police station officials arrested as many as 13 persons including 12 from Ahmedabad city and one from Gandhinagar for gambling at Nandoli village in Kalol taluka. When cops raided at the gambling den, they found that none of the accused was wearing mask and they did not have any sanitization facility. Due to this, the cops booked them for causing negligence that may spread deadly virus along with charges of Epidemic Act and gambling act. In another case registered with Kalol taluka police station, the cops were patrolling to monitor if norms of social distancing were being followed. At that time, they got an input that some persons had gathered at Saij village. The cops went there to book them for the violation of the notification issued by the district collector which restricts any unnecessary movement. When the police reached there, they found that six persons, all from Saij village, were gambling. In this case also, the police booked them under the charges of Epidemic Act. On the other hand, Pethapur police station officials of Gandhinagar district booked four persons for gambling but as they were wearing masks and had sanitization facility, they were not booked under the Epidemic Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cards-not-sanitized-gamblers-booked/articleshow/77207562.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Former sarpanch’s death triggers arson||HYDERABAD: Two rival groups clashed over location of a cremation ground at Jaitram thanda in Utnoor mandal in Adilabad district late on Monday night. Due to the tense situation prevailing in the hamlet, a former sarpanch reportedly suffered a heart attack and died on the way to hospital. After his death, the groups resorted to arson and damaged property. Two police constables were suspended, while one of them was taken into custody on Tuesday, for their role in triggering the clashes. At least three houses and an equal number of bikes, a bullock cart, a tractor and a car were set ablaze by vandals during the violence on Monday night. Three fire engines were rushed to the village to put out the fires, even as there was resistance from villagers to allow them into the village. A long-standing rivalry between families of the present sarpanch and the former sarpanch snowballed into a major issue reportedly involving supporters of Congress and TRS. Additional police forces have been rushed to the hamlet to prevent the situation going out of hand. Trouble started on July 27 evening after an inspection was done to decide on the location of a cremation ground for the village amid Covid-19 spread. Differences between sarpanch Renuka’s husband Rathod Parushuram of TRS and ex-sarpanch Anasuya’s husband Rathod Gajanand, also a former sarpanch, of Congress came to the fore. Parushuram lodged a complaint with Utnoor police, who summoned 50-year-old Gajanand. Two constables—Aade Sanjeev and Brahmanand, said to be related to Renuka — got involved and went to Gajanand’s house and created a ruckus. Gajanand reportedly suffered a heart stroke and died while being shifted to hospital. After his death, his followers clashed with their rivals and the two groups resorted to arson in the hamlet. Sanjeev and Brahmanand were suspended, leading to clashes. Later, Sanjeev was taken into custody. A post-mortem examination on the body of Gajanand was conducted on Tuesday. Later, his body was handed over to his kin for last rites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/former-sarpanchs-death-triggers-arson/articleshow/77229990.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 29, 2020||Surat||Two arrested in broad daylight firing on pvt financier in Bharuch||Surat: Two assailants, involved in a broad daylight firing on a private financier in Bharuch, were arrested by the police within few hours of the incident on Tuesday. Saeed alias Bhuro Mushtaq Yusuf Patel, a resident of Sherpura Road in Bharuch, was shot from a close range from a country-made revolver by the accused identified as Idrish alias Bambaiya and his two other accomplices at about 2 pm. The victim was rushed to the hospital where his condition was said to be stable. Police stated that the victim had personal enmity with the accused. According to police, the accused intercepted the victim’s car on the Jambusar by-pass road. They assaulted Patel in the public place and Idrish fired one round from a revolver hitting the victim in the abdomen. Following the firing incident, the accused escaped in their car, leaving behind the victim in a pool of blood. A senior police officer said of the three assailants involved in the firing, they have arrested Idrish and Taushif alias Wali from Zadeswar Road along with the weapon used in the crime. The police officer said, “The third accused, who is yet to be identified, is still at large. A case has been registered and investigation are on. The victim was shifted to the hospital where he is undergoing treatment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-arrested-in-broad-daylight-firing-on-pvt-financier-in-bharuch/articleshow/77227396.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Telugu boy’s initiative to help medical students in UK||Hyderabad: A Telugu student studying in the UK has started a new initiative to support those pursuing medical education in that country. Sai Pillarisetti, a fourth-year medical student at The University of Central Lancashire (UCLan) started the British International Doctors Association’s (BIDA) student wing this month. The group hopes to help people like himself gain access to best opportunities in the field. The BIDA student wing was announced with Sai Pillarisetti as its president to represent medical practitioners of the future. It will create a first-of-its-kind mentorship programme connecting medical students with senior members from the parent organisation. It will also be supporting students through workshops, offering career advice and help out with exam revision. Pillarisetti said, “Students who graduate and apply to be junior doctors often have to mention their published work in their CVs. BIDA’s peer-reviewed journal gives them this opportunity.” He said the body will help international students deal with the culture shock. “We plan to organise sports tournaments for members.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telugu-boys-initiative-to-help-medical-students-in-uk/articleshow/77229997.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Woman, father-in-law held for cheating||Ahmedabad: A 33-year-old man from Krishnanagar, Vipul Patel, lodged a complaint on Sunday against one Jayanti Patel and his daughter-in-law Jaimini Patel, for cheating him by promising to get him Rs 60,000 under a government scheme called ‘Sukanya Samruddi Yojana’. Krishnangar poilce sources said they registered an offence under Section 420, 406 and 114 against the accused. ACP G division A M Desai said both the accused have been detained and sent for pre-arrest Covid-19 tests. Patel, who makes furniture, in his FIR stated four or five days ago, he learned that his neighbours Jayanti and Jaimini were enrolling people to get Rs 60,000 under a government scheme named Sukanya Samruddhi Yojana. “He stated that they took Rs 800 from him for the form. They said he would have to pay them Rs 1,000 when the form was approved and Rs 13,000 when they got paid Rs 60,000,” said a police official. The FIR states that on Sunday he saw a crowd, some media persons and policemen at his society. “He learned that Jayanti Patel and Jaimini had actually been cheating people in the name of this scheme and he was hence lodging a complaint,” a police official said. Police sources said they suspect the accused cheated many people using this modus operandi. “Sukanya Samruddi Yojana is a small deposit scheme of the government of India meant exclusively for a girl child and is a part of the ‘Beti Bachao - Beti Padhao’ campaign . The scheme is is meant to meet the education and marriage expenses of girls,” said a police source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-father-in-law-held-for-cheating/articleshow/77207573.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid duty equated to double of rural internship||Ahmedabad: In response to a long-pending demand by the medical students, the state health & family welfare department on Monday announced that the time served by the undergraduate and postgraduate (UG & PG) students at Covid-19 hospitals will be considered as their rural internship.The government data reveal that only 646 PG students between 2015 and 2019 had completed their rural service out of 4,539 students who had passed in these years – indicating that 86% had not completed their tenure for one reason or another. It was the reason that the state government increased the amount of bond for UG and PG students from Rs 5 lakh and Rs 10 lakh to Rs 20 lakh and Rs 40 lakh respectively, while bringing down the time required for rural service from three years to one year.The notification mentions that the time served at Covid-19 will be considered at double the rate than the normal residentship – if the doctor serves for three months, it will be considered equivalent to six months of serving in rural areas. It will also have retrospective effect – if some doctors have not completed their service for some reason, they can complete it at designated Covid-19 hospitals.Dr Manjit Nayak, PG committee member of Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA), said that dilution of the medical service rules will encourage more students to serve the Covid-19 positive patients in government hospitals in Gujarat. “Relaxing their bond service help the students reach their native places early to provide better healthcare services,” he said.The interested candidates will have to apply to the commissioner (health) office online or offline. Their service will be counted from the day they join the hospital and the certificate for time served will be issued by the medical superintendent of the respective hospital.Dr Pinkesh Rathwa, junior doctors association president at BJ Medical College, Ahmedabad, said that it is an encouraging step by the state government. “It will also lower the financial burden for the parents which will lead to more productivity. It would surely encourage the corona warriors,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-duty-equated-to-double-of-rural-internship/articleshow/77228967.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Coimbatore||Fifty patients recover from virus in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: While 50 patients recovered and were discharged, only two new cases of Covid-19 were recorded in the Nilgiris on Tuesday. While the the Nilgiris’ Covid-19 tally stands at 726, as many as 160 active patients are being treated at the government hospitals in Ooty and Coonoor and Covid care centres. As many as 564 Covid patients were discharged so far in the Nilgiris. With this, the recovery rate of the district stands at 77.7%. The two new cases include a 47-year-old man and a 12-year-old girl, both from Sholur panchayat. They are secondary contacts of an earlier positive case with travel history to Madurai. Ahead of the spike in Covid cases, the Nilgiris district administration has instructed that no private functions shall take place in the district. Pre-fixed weddings could be held with a government prescribed number of attendees. However, the attendees should be tested for Covid-19 before attending the function. And the details of the attendees with test results should be submitted to the administration while applying for permission for the function. These measures are to contain clusters, according to the district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fifty-patients-recover-from-virus-in-nilgiris/articleshow/77229991.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Surat||15 south Guj cops awarded by DGP||Surat: A total of 15 police officers and staff from south Gujarat were awarded DGP’s Commendation Disc in an event held at Gujarat Police Academy in Karai on Monday. The officers were awarded the discs by DGP Shivanand Jha for their outstanding performances. Among senior officers who received the award include Surat police commissioner R B Brahmbhatt; Valsad SP Sunil Joshi; ACP Surat DCB R R Sarvaiya; DySP Bardoli Rupal Solanki; DySP Navsari B S Mori. Other officials from Surat city include police inspector A K Chauhan; PSIs M S Trivedi, S P Zala, D J Jadeja; ASI Pravin Patel. Police constables from Surat city J R Vaghela, Jagdish Patel, Ramshi Rabari and from Valsad Allarakhu Vani and Ajay Chaudhary, both head constables were also awarded. Total 110 awards were distributed at the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/15-south-guj-cops-awarded-by-dgp/articleshow/77227419.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Coronavirus casts spell of doom on Sambalpuri weave||SAMBALPUR: The Sambalpuri handloom market has not been immune to the adverse effect of Covid-19. Sambalpuri Bastralaya Handloom Cooperative Society, which had reported a turnover of around Rs 20 crore between March and June last year, has managed just around Rs 10.41 crore during the same period this year. Hemanta Kumar Mishra, the marketing officer of the handloom cooperative society, said there are around 40 outlets of Sambalpuri Bastralaya which had good business last year. “But this year, the outlets failed to make good business. The lockdown began on March 25 and the outlets were not allowed to open till May 3. When they were finally allowed to open, there were very few customers. And while the process to unlock the market has begun, the shutdown at many places has hurt business,” Mishra said. He said Sambalpuri saree and other fabrics are sold during the marriage season, besides during family functions. “However, several marriages were cancelled and events deferred due to the pandemic, affecting the sale of Sambalpuri handloom products,” he added. Mishra said the weavers of the cooperative societies are facing a tough time. “With the decrease in sales, we are not able to provide them with work order for sarees and other Sambalpuri handloom products. Earlier, the weavers, who are part of Sambalpuri Bastralaya Handloom Cooperative Society, were earning around Rs 16,000 per month. Now, with decrease in sales, they are barely making Rs 7,000/month,” said Mishra. More than 6000 weavers are part of Sambalpuri Bastralaya while at least 90 such societies across the state are engaged in marketing of the products. “Due the pandemic, the weavers across the state are going through a hard time. The markets across the country have either completely shut shop or are partially open, and as a result the sale of Sambalpuri saree, dress materials and bedsheet have been badly affected. Moreover, even the weekly Balijori market near the Bargarh district headquarter town, where thousands of weavers from across western Odisha gather to sell their products, has also been closed due Covid-19,” said Harisankar Meher, a weaver of Chichinda in Bargarh district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/corona-casts-spell-of-doom-on-sambalpuri-weave/articleshow/77227431.cms||Subrat Mohanty
July 29, 2020||Nagpur||Syllabus cut insufficient, improper: Academicians||Nagpur: Syllabus reduction approved by the state education department from Std I-XII by 25% has got a thumbs down from many academicians in the city. All agreed that the reduction plan erred on quantity as well as sequence. Senior academician Anil Louis said cutting of syllabus by mere 25% is insufficient. “Consider the time lost. There are many schools which are yet to fully implement digital classes as both the institutions and parents are facing logistical and technical problems. Like CBSE, we should have gone with a 30% cut,” said Louis. Ashok Gavhankar, senior principal and general secretary of Vidarbha Junior College Teachers Association (VJUCTA), said the biggest mistake was to reduce topics, not chapters. “After a cursory glance at the detailed PDF they sent us, I have noticed the number of pages they deleted from each chapter. They should have deleted entire chapters, not topics from every chapter,” said Gavhankar. He added that the idea was to reduce workload for students due to time being lost in the current situation. “To give an example, the idea was to avoid the time a child spent at school. So government reduced two periods from daily schedule. But the child still has to go to school for six days a week, so has the load on child reduced,” he asked. Continuing with the same analogy, Gavhankar said, “The authorities should have kept the number of periods as before but reduced the school week by two days. That would have been actual load reduction.” Another objection academicians have is about the sequence of chapter deletion. Ashnarayan Tiwari, principal of Adarsh Vidya Mandir (Gandhibagh) which produced top three HSC (commerce) students this year, said, “They (authorities) have reduced many topics starting from chapter I. But due to online classes, many schools and junior colleges have already finished chapter II also. So, this reduction has resulted in waste of efforts by teachers and students. They should have weeded out the last few chapters.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/syllabus-cut-insufficient-improper-academicians/articleshow/77228848.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 29, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Orange alert for four districts today||KOCHI: The next two days will see the state getting heavy rains in south and north Kerala with India Meteorological Department (IMD) issuing orange alerts of isolated very heavy rainfall of 11-20cm in four districts on Wednesday. Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Idukki have been sounded this very heavy rainfall warning. Isolated heavy rainfall of 7-11cm is expected in some places in Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam and Thrissur on Wednesday. The extremely heavy rainfall warning continues for Idukki on Thursday too along with Malappuram, Kozhikode and Wayanad with orange alert for 11-20cm rainfall. Also Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Kannur and Kasaragod are expected to receive isolated heavy rainfall varying from 7-11cm. Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity along with isolated heavy rainfall is likely over Kerala & Mahe and fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity is likely over Lakshadweep during week 1. Thus, above normal rainfall is likely over north and south Kerala and near normal rainfall is likely over central Kerala this week. Also, squally weather with wind speed reaching 40-50kmph is likely to prevail along and off Kerala coast. Fishermen are advised not to venture into sea. The sea will be rough and dangerous with high waves in the range of 2-3 metre expected in the night along the coast of Kerala from Pozhiyoor to Kasaragod. Surface current speeds vary between 52-72 cm/sec. However, on Tuesday, southwest monsoon was weak with short phases of rain occurring in many places in Kerala. Karipur airport, Kannur, Thalassery, Piravom, Hosdurg and Kudulu got 3cm each while Kochi airport recorded 2cm of rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/orange-alert-for-four-districts-today/articleshow/77228833.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||46 from across city booked for gambling; Rs 3 lakh seized||Ahmedabad: In a drive against gambling on Sunday, city police arrested 46 persons from different areas of eastern city and booked them. In total, Rs 3.2 lakh cash was seized from the accusedA senior police officer said that raids were conducted in Vatva, Vastral, Kagdapith, Ramol, Shahibaug and Danilimda areas of the city on Sunday. “In Vatva, seven alleged gamblers were held while Rs76k, in Vastral 10 alleged gamblers were held and a total of Rs 37k were seized from them. In Kagdapith seven alleged gamblers were detained and Rs50k was seized, and in Ramol five alleged gamblers were detained and Rs 18k seized. In Shahibaug 10 alleged gamblers with cash of Rs 76k were held, and in Danilimda area 7 gamblers with cash of Rs 69k were held,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/46-from-across-city-booked-for-gambling-rs-3-lakh-seized/articleshow/77207592.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Delhi||Covid Duty: Hotels Allowed To Check Out||New Delhi: In a big relief to hotels, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday ordered the delinking of hotels from hospitals, earlier undertaken to enhance availability of beds for Covid-19 patients. The decision has been taken in view of hospitals not needing such hotel beds and the Covid situation improving in Delhi. The capital now has less than 11,000 active cases, with more than 88% of the patients having recovered. On Wednesday, Kejriwal tweeted, “Some hotels were attached to hospitals to increase the number of Covid beds. In view of the improving situation and all hotel beds lying vacant for the last many days, these hotels are now being released.” In early June, around 40 hotels, among them luxury hotels like Hyatt Regency and Pullman, were attached to various government and private hospitals to function as extended facilities of the medical institutions, enhancing the city’s availability of Covid beds by 4,600. The aim was to take pressure off the Covid-designated hospitals that could then provide more attention to critical corona patients. However, even at a time when Delhi reported nearly 4,000 new cases in a single day, many beds in government and private Covid centres remained vacant, leading the government to believe it could release the hotels from this responsibility without causing any strain on the Covid hospitals. After the number of Covid cases began increasing in early June, the government not only increased Covid beds in hospitals, but also requisitioned around three dozen hotels as secondary Covid centres. The government even won the case when some hotel owners went to court against the decision. However, since then, the beds in these hotels have never been needed. “With the efforts of the chief minister, the Covid condition in the capital has improved significantly. At present there are only around 11,000 active cases. Of the over 15,000 Covid beds, more than 12,000 are vacant,” a government official said. On July 4, the sub-divisional magistrate of Dwarka directed the delinking of three of the four hotels in the area after only 25 of the 900 rooms had been utilised. In the first week of July, other districts too began reviewing the occupancy status in the hotels. However, Delhi government’s action on July 5 in withdrawing the order disassociating three starred hotels with hospitals in view of the unpredictable behaviour of the novel coronavirus prompted the district authorities to suspend their plans. According to official data on Wednesday, Delhi had only 10,770 active Covid cases out of the 1.3 lakh reported so far. Of the 16,000 Covid beds in government and private hospitals, 12,980 beds were unoccupied, while 5,000 of the 10,000 beds in dedicated Covid care centres were similarly unused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-duty-hotels-allowed-to-check-out/articleshow/77250781.cms||AlokKNMishra
July 29, 2020||Nagpur||Coaching insts decry lack of clarity on JEE, NEET syllabus||Nagpur: Now that Maharashtra government too has approved a reduction in syllabus following CBSE’s similar decision earlier, coaching institutes are fuming over lack of clarity from National Testing Agency (NTA). Two of the biggest entrance exams in the country, Joint Entrance Examination (JEE-Mains) and National Entrance-cum-Eligibility Test (NEET) are conducted by NTA. Coaching institutes say it is shocking that no confirmation has come yet about the exams to be held in 2021. Panini Telang, an academician who specializes in physics, said NTA must not delay this further. “Students, parents and academicians are all eagerly waiting to understand which parts of the original syllabus are to be studied,” said Telang. Since preparation for competitive exams like JEE and NEET begin at least two years before, students are now in final phase for the exam to be conducted in 2021. “When I take up a topic for teaching to my students today, I have no idea whether or not it will feature in the exam next year. So it is possible we all are wasting our efforts,” said Telang. Sameer Phale, an academician who specializes in biology/botany, said it was hard to even decipher why NTA is keeping quiet on this. “I do not understand why they ignore important issues related with students. Students preparing for NEET are clueless as to which part of the portion is still relevant,” said Phale. These competitive exams are based on NCERT syllabus which is followed by CBSE. With the central board reducing its syllabus by 30%, the expectation is that it would apply to NTA too. However, no confirmation has yet come from the exam conducting body or the Ministry of Human Resources Development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/coaching-insts-decry-lack-of-clarity-on-jee-neet-syllabus/articleshow/77228855.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 29, 2020||Kolkata||14,000 traders in Burrabazar textile hub to follow self-imposed lockdown for a week||KOLKATA: A sharp spike in novel coronavirus cases in the central Kolkata business hub has led 14,000 traders in eastern India’s biggest textile hub to keep their establishments shut for one week starting Wednesday. According to the Chamber of Textile Trade and Industry (COTTI), apex body for textile trade and business in eastern India, the one-week long self-imposed lockdown may result in losses of over Rs 100 crore. Most of these shops are located in clusters in Burrabazar, Brabourne Road, MG Road, Mechhua, Cotton Street and Kalakar Street and cater to the demands of textile not only in West Bengal but also neighbouring states and countries like Nepal and Bangladesh. The decision to keep the shops and showrooms shut was taken to disrupt the spread of the novel coronavirus which has so far infected more than 1,000 people in Burrabazar, though locals feel several hundred cases may have gone unreported. Several people have even lost their lives to the virus. In the last two weeks, concerns within the business community have been apparent over the rising cases of Covid-19 which is not only keeping the markets deserted but also affecting their members. Arun Bhuwalka, president of Chamber of Textile Trade and Industry, apex body for textile trade and in eastern India, said the decision was taken after consulting all member associations who have assured that they will abide by the decision. “It is very important to be careful now because the virus is spreading rapidly and it has affected many people already. We feel our decision to keep our businesses shut for one week will go a long way in checking the spread of the virus in these pockets. We have also reached out to other markets in the area to work out a method in which they keep their establishments shut for a few days,” said Bhuwalka. The textile industry generates more than 10 million livelihoods directly and indirectly including traders, weavers, embroidery industry and transportation. There are close to 15,000 establishments engaged in the business of hosiery, garments and apparels in the textile hub. “Five to ten per cent very small traders may remain open to make their ends meet but close to 90% will abide by the decision taken by the apex body,” said Bhuwalka. West Bengal has historically been the hub of textile business in India for over a century catering to the needs of Bihar, Odisha, Assam, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, covering more than 25% of India’s population. Kolkata has been the biggest trading centre for textiles in Eastern India with over half a million handloom weavers across the state. “The business is down by over 60% due to the pandemic, but we are still anticipating losses of over several crores due to the self-imposed lockdown, but safety of people is more important,” said Bhuwalka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/14k-traders-in-textile-hub-to-down-shutters-for-a-week/articleshow/77228852.cms||Zeeshan Javed
July 29, 2020||Rajkot||Amreli cop gets DGP commendation disc||Rajkot: A police constable in Amreli district was one of the policemen to be conferred with the first 'DGP commendation disc' for his act of bravery despite being injured in the assault by criminals.Mahendra Vala, who is presently posted in Amreli police headquarters, had gone to arrest father-son duo Baran Bloach and Jafar in Semardi village when he was posted in Dhari police station in 2019. However, the duo stabbed Vala and police sub-inspector AJ PAtel who had gone to nab them. Bloachs were accused of vandalizing a house of a family over some personal dispute."I was stabbed in the stomach and part of my intestine also protruded out," Vala told TOI. Despite the severe injury, Vala tightly grabbed the duo who was ultimately arrested.Vala had joined the police force in 2006.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/amreli-cop-gets-dgp-commendation-disc/articleshow/77227456.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana worker jailed in Dubai for carrying banned drugs freed||HYDERABAD: A Telangana worker who was jailed in Dubai for carrying banned medicines has been prematurely released and repatriated. Of the seven-year jail term he was given, he completed three years and 10 months before social workers and Consulate General of India (CGI) took up his case. Pusula Srinivas of Thadapakal village in Ergatla mandal of Nizamabad district went to Dubai on August 4, 2016 for a job. A person known to Srinivas came to his house four days prior to his leaving and left a packet with his wife saying that it contained tablets and Srinivas should carry it to Dubai and give it to someone they knew. Since he said it was medicine, Srinivas took it, but on landing in Dubai, he was arrested by the police as the tablets were banned substances in the country. Srinivas was convicted on February 22, 2017. Gulf Telangana Welfare and Cultural Association president Patkuri Basant Reddy represented the matter to CGI, Dubai explaining the fact that it was not the intention of Srinivas to carry any banned medicines or substances. Krishna Donikeni, founder-president of Gulf Workers Awareness Centre (GWAC) in Dubai also helped Pusula Srinivas by approaching the court again to plead for his sentence to be reduced. Poosala Srinivas reached home on July 26 . In 2017, IT minister K T Rama Rao, to whose notice the problem was brought by Donikeni, said the government was making efforts through the embassy to help Srinivas. Srinivas’ wife had also lodged a complaint with Morthad police on September 8, 2016 against one Mahesh who had handed over the packet to her when her husband was not home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-worker-jailed-in-dubai-for-carrying-banned-drugs-freed/articleshow/77230001.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 29, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS slams Congress for ‘double standards’||Hyderabad: TRS spokesperson and government whip Karne Prabhakar criticised Congress for talking in different tones on critical issues. Addressing at the media point on the assembly premises on Tuesday, Prabhakar recalled that the Congress had demanded imposition of President’s rule in Telangana and section 8 in Greater Hyderabad not long ago. “The party is now adopting a different policy in Rajasthan where it is in power. Its government is literally threatening the governor if its demands are not met,” he said. It may be recalled TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy had sought implementation of section 8 of the AP Reorganisation Act giving control over certain buildings and affairs in Hyderabad to the governor. Prabhakar said Congress leaders were breaking the Covid-19 guidelines and lockdown rules and trying to stage protests in the city without any valid reason. “Congress has a history of murdering democracy in the state right from NTR’s time and is now talking about democracy. BJP is adopting the same techniques used by Congress to bulldoze the elected governments,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-slams-congress-for-double-standards/articleshow/77230007.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Swagruha auction: T to raise Rs 800cr||Hyderabad: The state government is expecting to raise over Rs 800 crore through the auction of Rajiv Swagruha flats. Knight Frank, real estate consultants of international repute, has been selected through bidding to evaluate the market price of the vacant 3,716 flats in Bandlaguda and Pocharam Rajiv Swagruha townships. The consultancy has also been asked to submit a report on the expected revenue if the flats are auctioned individually or to real estate giants in one or two lots. The report should be submitted within 10 days to the government. Though the government has decided to auction the flats on “as is where is” basis i.e., without carrying out any further repairs or adding infrastructure to it, a final call will be taken by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao after the report is submitted to him. R&B minister Vemula Prashant Reddy said the guidelines for auction-cum-sale of Swagruha flats are being finalised. The prices for sale of flats would be fixed by taking into consideration its saleability in the open market. There are a total of 3,716 flats that are lying vacant in the townships at Bandlaguda and Pocharam. In 2007, then-government in undivided AP had announced Rajiv Swagruha housing scheme for urban middle class. For this, Andhra Pradesh Rajiv Swagruha Corporation Limited (APRSCL) was established. After Telangana state’s formation, APRSCL cleared bank loans and released all projects from mortgage. In 2016, the government decided to allot the flats at Bandlaguda and Pocharam to government staff, but there were hardly any takers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/swagruha-auction-t-to-raise-rs-800cr/articleshow/77230013.cms||Roushan Ali
July 29, 2020||Surat||Rains pound Valsad town, drench south Gujarat districts||Surat: Heavy rains pounded Valsad town and nearby village with over 138mm of rainfall between 6am and 4pm on Tuesday leading to water-logging in several low lying areas. According to Valsad flood control room, besides Valsad taluka, Pardi recorded 107 mm and Vapi 60 mm rainfall between 6 am to 4 pm on Tuesday.In Navsari district, Gandevi received 98mm raiinfall followed by Chikhali (96 mm), Khergam (40 mm) and Vansda (23 mm).In Surat district, Mahuva taluka recorded 36 mm rainfall on Tuesday.According to Narmada Water Resources department, 13 dams of South Gujarat were filled upto 56%of their capacity.As per the state emergency centre data South Gujarat has so far received 30% of its average annual rainfall as on Tuesday. The state as a whole has received 41% of its average annual rainfall.Meanwhile, India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a light to moderate rain forecast at a few places in all the districts of South Gujarat region for the next two days. However, fairly widespread rain has been forecast by the IMD over the weekend across Gujarat state including Kutch, Saurashtra region, central, North and South Gujarat regions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/rains-pound-valsad-town-drench-south-gujarat-districts/articleshow/77227481.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Dehradun||With chief secretary retiring on July 31, speculation rife on probables for post||Dehradun: With Utpal Kumar Singh all set to retire from the post of chief secretary (CS) on July 31, speculations are rife on the names which could next be given the top bureaucratic post. Singh is looking after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s important project of Kedarnath development plan and therefore, possibilities are high that he may be given an extension. Among the other top four IAS officers who are being considered for the coveted post are — commerce secretary Anup Wadhawan, NHAI chairman Sukhbir Singh Sandhu, additional chief secretary Om Prakash, and additional chief secretary Radha Raturi. Singh took over the charge of CS from S Ramaswamy on October 25, 2017. Born on July 29, 1960, Singh – who hails from Jharkhand – is the 15 CS of the Himalayan state. In his tenure, Singh played a key role in monitoring the pace of projects at Kedarnath and also the Rs 12,000 crore All Weather Road for Char Dham project announced by PM Modi before the state elections of 2017. With both projects moving at a swift pace, possibilities are that Singh may be given an extension. Commerce secretary Anup Wadhawan, who is presently at Central deputation, has served key positions in the state and is being regarded as one of the probables for the top post. Sukhbir Singh Sandhu, who is presently NHAI chairman, had gone on Central deputation around six years back. He had worked in the state in the tenures of former chief ministers like BC Khanduri, Vijay Bahuguna, and Harish Rawat. Additional chief secretary Om Prakash is also one of the probables as he is regarded close to state chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat. When CM Rawat was the agriculture minister in the BJP government from 2007-2012, Om Prakash was the departmental secretary. Additional Chief Secretary Radha Raturi is also eligible for the top bureaucratic post. She is a senior IAS officer and the wife of DGP Anil Raturi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/with-chief-secretary-retiring-on-july-31-speculation-rife-on-probables-for-post/articleshow/77225937.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 29, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur man’s co gets $100mn funding from marquee investors||Nagpur: Amid the gloom due to Covid-19 pandemic, a data pipeline company Fivetran, based in Bengaluru, has bagged $100 million funding from investors led by Andreessen Horowitz — company which has also invested in Facebook, Skype, Airbnb, and Twitter earlier. Fivetran is a growth stage start-up and the co-founder of the US-based business’s India operations — Vikram Labhe — has a Nagpur connect. Labhe did his schooling from Saraswati Vidyalaya, completed engineering from Ramdeobaba College. He left Nagpur in 1996 for Canada before settling in Bengaluru. Labhe says the company with a 350-strong workforce also has a number of employees from Nagpur. “Even at present, a few freshers are from Nagpur. Two employees, who are scheduled to join from August, are also from the city,” Labhe told TOI. “There will be some intake from January to June next year, and Nagpur, especially graduates from Ramdeobaba, are expected to have a sizeable share,” he said. As work continues from home due to Covid outbreak, a number of employees are back in the city, said Labhe, who is also in Nagpur for a month now. Labhe said Fivetran offers data services to a cross-section — from retail to engineering. He said if Covid has hit other businesses, it has brightened prospects for this segment. As online gets higher preference during the pandemic times, the prospects of a data pipeline company like Fivetran has gone up, he said. “For example, in retail industry, if the brick and mortar segment has taken a hit, the online mode has grown. Again, data is a valuable asset in the business where companies like ours have a role. Even in pharmaceutical sector where tests are happening remotely, data plays an important role,” said Labhe. The funds garnered in the current round will be used in sales, engineering and marketing, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-mans-co-gets-100mn-funding-from-marquee-investors/articleshow/77228876.cms||Shishir Arya
July 29, 2020||Delhi||Consider providing Rs 500 crore for Amrapali projects: Supreme Court to Centre||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday said the Centre should provide funds to complete construction of the stalled housing projects of the Amrapali Group, which is being done under the apex court’s supervision, and asked the solicitor general to talk to the authorities concerned on providing a fund Rs 500 crore. “We want some finances for construction. Can you find out how and from where the money can come. Come out with some suggestions,” a bench of Justices Arun Mishra and U U Lalit told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta at the outset of the proceedings while hearing the Amrapali case. Mehta said he was not appearing for the Centre in the case but for Greater Noida authority. The bench, however, asked him to use his good offices to convince the government on releasing funds. Apex court-appointed receiver and senior advocate R Venkataramani, who has been entrusted with the task of managing the affairs of the Group, told the bench that he had a meeting with the expenditure secretary and he will file proposal before the finance ministry on how the government could step in to help in completing the housing projects. He said the government could persuade a consortium of banks to provide funds. Referring to the Unitech case in which an independent Board of Directors appointed by the Centre has taken over the management of the Group and filed revival plan in the SC for its approval, the solicitor general said similar thing could also be done in the Amrapali case. Mehta assured the court that all attempts will be made on the suggestions given by the court. The bench, however, said it had already appointed a committee but it could be expanded on the proposal of the government. If the Centre agreed to release funds for Amrapali projects, it will be in addition to Rs 995 crore which SBI Capital had earlier proposed to provide for eight projects in Noida and Greater Noida out of SWAMIH (Special Window for Completion of Construction of Affordable and Mid-Income Housing Projects) Investment Fund created by the Centre and being managed by the bank. It has been nearly a year since the SC took over management of the Group, but construction work remained sluggish due to fund crunch as NBCC, which has been given the task to complete the projects, refused to invest while buyers were not able to clear their dues with banks refusing to disburse money. The court had in the last hearing directed CMDs of banks and financial institutions to start releasing funds to home-buyers which would be used for construction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/consider-providing-rs-500cr-for-amrapali-projects-sc-to-centre/articleshow/77230769.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
July 29, 2020||Kolkata||Civic body to tie up with NGOs, clubs for hearses||KOLKATA: Struggling to send serious Covid patients to hospitals for want of ambulances and carry bodies of the victims to crematoriums due to dearth of hearses, the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) is desperately trying to tie up with private agencies and clubs to get rid of the problem. Recently, KMC commissioner Binod Kumar wrote to the city’s clubs requesting them to provide ambulances that were either donated or purchased for transporting Covid patients in times of urgency. KMC’s health department has also tied up with a couple of NGOs that run ambulance and hearse services. According to a health department official, the civic body has tied up with a north Kolkata-based private agency for supply of hearses daily. “At a preliminary stage, the agency has agreed to provide five hearses every day. This will help us tide over the crisis to some extent. However, the actual requirement is much higher,” conceded the KMC official. An official said that several NGOs that run hearse services are reluctant to share their vehicles for fear of infection. “A section of NGOs running hearse services are reluctant to provide their vehicles for carrying the bodies of Covid victims for fear of infection. Though we are trying to convince them that proper disinfection would be carried out by the KMC every time a hearse carries a Covid victim, some NGOs are unwilling,” he said. Besides taking help of the five hearses, the KMC health department could press into service 10 such vehicles regularly. On the other hand, the civic brass has requested ward coordinators to search for ambulances from clubs in their respective wards. Another official said the civic body had a fleet of 22 ambulances that was grossly insufficient for carrying serious patients to hospitals. Arup Chakraborty, a ward coordinator in the Garia-Patuli belt, said he has been able to convince a few local clubs to transport serious patients. Sandipan Saha, a ward coordinator from the Janbazar-Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Road area, is also banking on ambulances from local clubs for transporting Covid patients. However, both of them said some clubs were apprehensive of the driver and health workers getting infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/civic-body-to-tie-up-with-ngos-clubs-for-hearses/articleshow/77228863.cms||Saikat Ray
July 29, 2020||Dehradun||Unhappy with slow pace of Smart City works, minister directs round the clock work during weekend lockdown||Dehradun: In a review meeting of the works being done under the Smart City project on Tuesday, urban development minister Madan Kaushik expressed his displeasure over the slow pace of the ongoing projects. To meet the delay – which was caused mainly due to Covid-19 and lack of manpower – the minister has asked the authorities concerned to ensure round the clock work during weekend lockdowns. Later, the minister said, “The delay is understandable but the fact remains that we need to cover up the time so that all the projects are completed as soon as possible. I have directed the departmental officials to ensure that work is done at a rapid pace and round the clock during the weekend lockdowns.” Kaushik pointed out that shops and other establishments remain closed during the weekend due to the lockdown and therefore, there will be no hindrance in the work. “There is less traffic on the road and the movement of people is also restricted. These factors will facilitate fast-paced work,” said the minister. The officials present in the meeting were also directed to make an elaborate plan in advance for the laying of gas pipelines in the city. “Several projects like drain construction, road repair and construction, among others, are under progress and we are trying to complete them at the earliest,” the minister added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/unhappy-with-slow-pace-of-smart-city-works-minister-directs-round-the-clock-work-during-weekend-lockdown/articleshow/77225945.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 29, 2020||Kochi||President asks chief secy to act, Edgar happy||Kochi: Edgar Sebastian, the Class X student from Chellanam who wrote to the President seeking steps to protecting his village from coastal-erosion received a response on Tuesday. He received a copy of an email from the office of Ashok Kumar, under secretary (Petition) at President’s Secretariat, Rashtrapati Bhavan in Delhi, that forwarded his complaint to Kerala chief secretary’s office, urging it to directly inform the petitioner about the action taken. TOI was the first to publish Edgar’s story on July 26. “Please find attached/forwarded, for appropriate attention, an e-mail petition addressed to the President/President’s Secretariat which is self-explanatory. Action taken on the petition may please be communicated to the petitioner directly,” read the email. Edgar is overwhelmed by the response. “He made a video thanking the President and shared it on WhatsApp,” said Shaji George, an activist working with Chellanam residents. “I am very happy. I hope the chief secretary will take necessary action soon. I thank President Ram Nath Kovind for his prompt response,” Edgar said. TOI had published the excerpts from Edgar’s complaint which stated that he had written a letter to the president, due to fear when the rough sea inundated his village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/president-asks-chief-secy-to-act-edgar-happy/articleshow/77228862.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Dehradun||UBSE results to be declared today||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand Board of School Education (UBSE) is going to announce the board examination results of Classes X and XII on Wednesday. The rigorous examination exercise in which more than 2.5 lakh students participated was held in two phases due to the Covid-19 lockdown. The exams were postponed abruptly in March due to Covid-19 outbreak and the remaining exams were held last month. Despite holding the examinations again in June, many students were unable to write their exams as they were in areas then declared containment zones. The results will be declared around 11 am from the UBSE head office in Ramnagar, Nainital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ubse-results-to-be-declared-today/articleshow/77225964.cms||Mohammad Anab
July 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Pharma sector to gain post-Covid: KT Rama Rao||HYDERABAD: Industries minister KT Rama Rao said the pharma industry in Hyderabad contributes up to 30% to 40% of domestic pharma production. He said the city-based Bharath Biotech has developed the first indigenous vaccine for Covid-19, which is currently under clinical trials. KTR participated in an online session hosted by the World Economic Forum on the topic ‘Harnessing the potential of Telangana’s pharmaceutical sector in the global health eco-system’.  He highlighted the life sciences eco-system of Hyderabad and said post-Covid 19 world would provide great opportunities for the pharma and life sciences sector in Telangana. KTR said Genome valley, Medical Devices Park and Hyderabad Pharma City have transformed the city into a global pharma destination for investors. He also mentioned various innovative programs taken up by the Telangana government along with the WEF and highlighted that blood and vital medicals are being supplied via drones under ‘Medicine from the sky’ programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-pharma-sector-to-gain-post-covid/articleshow/77230773.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Hyderabad||LMA gives in to pressure, to reopen Cantt roads from today||SECUNDERABAD: Eleven days after closing major civilian roads, the local military authority (LMA) on Tuesday gave the nod to reopen all the roads in Secunderabad Cantonment from 6 am on Wednesday. “On July 29 from 6 am, roads in the cantonment will be open for all. However, roads will be closed for measures to contain Covid-19 such as sanitisation of premises twice — from 5.30 am to 8.30 am and 4.30 pm to 6.30 pm — every day,” read an official release issued by the Defence PRO wing on Tuesday here. There will be no restriction on movement of ambulances or emergency medical cases but proper checks and verifications will be followed. “The civilians have to co-operate with military authorities to contain the spread of the pandemic,” the LMA, in the release, appealed to the residents of the area. On July 18, the LMA had shut four major roads, including Allahabad Gate, Wellington Road, Gough Road and Ordnance Road at AOC Circle, and other civilian roads in Bolarum (covering north-eastern part of Secunderabad) because of the surge in Covid-19 cases in Secunderabad Cantonment and adjoining civilian areas abutting the military stations at Trimulgherry and Bolarum. Due to pressure from the residential welfare associations (RWAs) of nearly 150 residential colonies, the Congress and TRS leaders took up the matter with SCB authorities and LMA and urged them to keep the roads open by following the Ministry of Defence (MoD) orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lma-gives-in-to-pressure-to-reopen-cantt-roads-from-today/articleshow/77230041.cms||Sunil Mungara
July 29, 2020||Kolkata||New therapy hope for critical patients||KOLKATA: After using drugs meant to treat other ailments in the battle against Covid, doctors are now exploring different treatment therapies. The latest one to be tried on critical patients in Kolkata is CytoSorb where toxins from blood are removed to inhibit the inflammatory response to severe infection. Doctors said some Covid patients, who develop severe complications, experience cytokine storm or cytokine release syndrome (CRS), causing inflammation that could lead to organ failure. Cytokine is a group of proteins produced by cells. CytoSorb therapy is to counter this by reducing cytokine storm. “Our patient was diabetic and needed high oxygen flow. When he failed to respond to steroids, we decided to deploy CytoSorb therapy to purify his blood while using a medicine to prevent the release of a cytokine called interleukin 6 (IL-6) that plays a critical role in causing CRS,” said critical care specialist Arindam Kar, whose team treated Salt Lake businessman SK Sharma. Experts said increased level of IL-6 in blood is correlated with respiratory failure, acute respiratory distress syndrome and often bad clinical outcome. “When Arindam Kar and his team counselled us for the therapy we agreed as it was the last resort. My father is now back home,” said son Prateek. The 53-year-old was admitted to Belle Vue Clinic on June 19 where he was found infected. He was discharged from the hospital about a week ago. “We have used the therapy on three Covid patients so far, including one who was on ECMO support. Intervention has to be at the right time for successful outcome,” said critical care specialist Dipanjan Chatterjee of Medica Superspecialty Hospital. “If rising toxin level is not arrested it could lead to lung as well failure of other organs. CytoSorb therapy removes these toxins. But it is meant for very sick patients,” said Sauren Panja, critical care and internal medicine specialist at RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences. “Cost is a factor. So, we have to be meticulous while deploying the therapy keeping in mind affordability, pros and cons and the likely outcome,” said pulmonologist Raja Dhar of Fortis Hospital where they have used it on one patient. A patient might need two to three sessions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-therapy-hope-for-critical-patients/articleshow/77228903.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 29, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand to place sign boards of network connectivity in hill and forest areas||Dehradun: Tourism minister Satpal Maharaj, during the monthly review meeting on Tuesday, asked the department officials to ensure that signboards regarding mobile network connectivity are placed across the state in border or interior areas to alert the travellers that there is no mobile connectivity beyond that point. The minister also announced to give one year extra time to the project of Surkanda Devi ropeway where involvement of a Chinese firm was found in earlier inspections. During the review of more than 50 different projects of tourism departments, which was headed by tourism secretary Dilip Jawalkar, the minister instructed the officials to ensure the construction of toilets for passengers on all the travel routes of the state. “Placement of sign boards with warning of mobile connectivity will help people to make calls before reaching to no network areas. This will help people to suffer in the absence of mobile networks,” said Satpal Maharaj. Issuing another warning against the use of Chinese products or involvement of Chinese firms in tourism projects, Maharaj said that he has given one year extra time to department for completion of Surkanda Devi Ropeway project and strict guidelines have been issued to the department concerned to ensure only ‘Made in India’ products in the project. The department officials were asked to prepare a project report for the facelift of the Gangotri and Yamunotri temples on the lines of Kedarnath and Badrinath shrines. The minister also asked the officials to speed up the works under the “13 district-13 destination scheme”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-to-place-sign-boards-of-network-connectivity-in-hill-and-forest-areas/articleshow/77225981.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 29, 2020||Hyderabad||T cops issue circular on illegal animal sacrifices||Hyderabad: Telangana police issued a circular stating that illegal animal sacrifices in the state without following rules of animal transport and slaughter is a punishable offence. The order came after PETA India sent a letter to Telangana’s director general of police requesting that he take all possible measures to stop animal sacrifices which are prohibited under the Telangana Animals and Birds Sacrifices Prohibition Act, 1950.  Following which, the police headquarters issued an order to its senior officials directing them to implement this state law as well as central government laws related to the transportation and slaughter of animals and relevant directions of the SC.  In its letter, PETA India pointed out that Section 3 of the Telangana Animals and Birds Sacrifices Prohibition Act, 1950, states, “No person shall sacrifice any animal or bird in any place of religious worship or adoration or its precincts or in any congregation or procession connected with any religious worship in a public street.” The letter also mentions that on two matters regarding the sacrifice and killing of animals for meat, the SC ruled that animals can be slaughtered only in officially licensed slaughterhouses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-cops-issue-circular-on-illegal-animal-sacrifices/articleshow/77230786.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Kolkata||Remove settlements below bridges: Experts||KOLKATA: The bridge advisory committee appointed by the government has recommended that all settlements below various bridges and flyovers across the city should be relocated. Bridge experts said these are detrimental to the structural healths of the bridges like Bijon setu, Sealdah flyover and Aurobindo setu. The experts said that before the Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) takes up full-fledged repair and strengthening work of Sealdah flyover, Aurobindo Setu and Bijon Setu in a few months’ time, the hawkers and other settlements below these bridges will have to be relocated. The experts are concerned over the makeshift structures causing harm to the supporting wall and pillars of the bridges. A few days ago, cops were called in to stop a makeshift structure from coming up below Bijon Setu after the matter came to the KMDA’s notice. The technical modalities have been completed as the KMDA officials are waiting for the financial approval from the state cabinet to take up major repairs of several bridges on a priority basis. The four bridges where the work will be taken up on a priority basis are Ultadanga flyover, Baghajatin ROB, Chingrighata flyover and Kalighat bridge followed by other bridges like Sealdah flyover, Aurobindo Setu and Bijon Setu. The KMDA officials are already taking up the work to remove the extra bitumen layer to reduce load pressure from Sealdah flyover, Aurobindo Setu and some other bridges. Removal of tram lines on Sealdah flyover has also been planned. Sources said the shifting of the hawkers with their settlements had already been discussed earlier, but no solution could be achieved. National Hawker Federation general secretary Shaktiman Ghosh said they were waiting for a dialogue with the government over the issue. “Repairing the bridges is necessary. Hawkers’ livelihood should be considered. We are ready to discuss it with the government,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/remove-settlements-below-bridges-experts/articleshow/77228953.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Hyderabad||15-day lockdown in Nalgonda town||HYDERABAD: As there is a steady rise in the number of Covid-19 positive cases, a 15-day voluntary lockdown will be imposed in Nalgonda town from July 30 to August 14 to curb the spread of the virus. This is the first time since lockdown was lifted in the state that an entire town will shut shop for a fortnight. At a meeting with Nalgonda MLA K Bhupal Reddy and local officials, traders decided that the lockdown will be imposed from July 30 to August 14, and only shops selling essential commodities will be kept open till 1 pm. “The lockdown is not official. But this is what the traders have decided as a measure to prevent the spread of Covid-19,” municipal commissioner Sharath Chandra told TOI. He said that the efforts being made by the municipal authorities to prevent the spread of the virus will continue during the lockdown. A total of 300 cases have been reported in Nalgonda district. As Nalgonda town is the nerve centre of all activity in the district, the lockdown is expected to help in restricting the movement of people and thereby curtail the spread of the virus. Elsewhere in the state, villages are going on self-imposed lockdown for a few days to curb the spread of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/15-day-lockdown-in-nalgonda-town/articleshow/77230044.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 29, 2020||Dehradun||Six family members, including Covid +ve person, booked for violating quarantine norms||Uttarkashi: Six members of a family, including a Covid-19 positive person, were booked by Uttarkashi police on charges of violating home quarantine norms and obstructing government work on Monday. According to TOI sources, a youth from a containment zone area of Uttarkashi town, who was booked under the SC/ST Act and was admitted to the district hospital a few days ago, was arrested by a police team from the hospital. However, the family members of the youth opposed the arrest and created nuisance in both the hospital and the police station. Later in the evening, one of the family members of the accused was found Covid-19 positive, creating severe panic in the town. After this, police booked all six family members including the Covid-19 positive person for violating quarantine norms and obstructing government work. Inspector Mahadev Uniyal, in-charge of Uttarkashi police station, said, “Six family members of the accused, including a Covid-19 positive person, have been booked under sections 353 (obstructing government work), 188 (disobedience of order), 270, and 269 (negligence act likely to spread infection diseases) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 51(B) of the Disaster Management Act. Besides, the house of the accused family has also been sealed and declared a containment zone.” “We have also home quarantined five cops, who came in direct contact of the family, as a precautionary measure,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/six-family-members-including-covid-ve-person-booked-for-violating-quarantine-norms/articleshow/77225990.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
July 29, 2020||Kochi||Law against indiscriminate water extraction needed: HC||Kochi: Government should bring in a law to prevent indiscriminate extraction of groundwater by packaged drinking-water units, said the high court. While issuing permits for such units, welfare of the people should be given priority over business interest, the court said. The observation was made by justice VG Arun after considering a petition (WP-C No. 12046/2013) filed by CS Sundaranpilla of Arabi near Iritty in Kannur through advocate Blaze K Jose. The petitioner had alleged indiscriminate extraction of groundwater in his village by St Marys Water Tech on the strength of a permit issued by the panchayat. In the judgment, the court said, “Indiscriminate tapping of ground water by units like the third respondent (St Marys Water Tech), though on the strength of licences and clearance from the statutory authorities, even lead to water scarcity. It is true that at present, there is no law which prohibits grant of permission for conduct of units like that of the third respondent. The inadequacy of law is a matter which should engage the attention of the law makers. Being a Local Self Government Institution, the welfare of the people, as against the business interest of an individual, should weigh with the Panchayat, while granting licences/permits.” As per the petitioner, the area is facing acute water shortage and is dependent on government’s Jalanidhi project for drinking water. Pointing out the need for a law to curb indiscriminate water extraction by water-bottling units, the court directed the collector to decide on the complaint seeking closure of the unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/law-against-indiscriminate-water-extraction-needed-hc/articleshow/77228938.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Hyderabad||3 held for raping sweeper||Hyderabad: Three persons were arrested on Tuesday on the charges of raping a sweeper near Nayapul on Monday night. Afzalgunj inspector M Ravinder Reddy said two auto drivers and a labourer were arrested following a complaint from the 33-year-old woman. “She said the trio took her to the bushes under Nayapul bridge and raped her when she went to pick up her washed clothes,” Reddy said. Police said the woman works as sweeper at a worship place near Nayapul. Police sent her to the Bharosa centre for counselling and a medical examination. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-held-for-raping-sweeper/articleshow/77230046.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan HC seeks government reply on plea to quash Gajendra Singh Shekhawat probe||JAIPUR: Rajasthan High Court on Tuesday sought response from the state government on a petition challenging a lower court order directing investigation against Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat his family members and associates in the Rs 884-crore Sanjivani Credit Cooperative Society scam. The high court issued the notice on a petition seeking quashing the lower court order by co-accused Kewal Chand Dakalia, the shareholder director of Navprabha Buildtech Pvt Ltd, who is said to be linked with Shekhawat. Senior Advocate Mahesh Jethmalani argued the matter on behalf of the petitioner from Mumbai via video conference. The high court has asked the state government to file its response by August 5. The petition said, “When the investigation in the matter is already going on and there have been no allegations of bias against the investigating agency by the respondent, there was no occasion to warrant specific monitoring or intrusion by the court. It is in itself contradictory that there can be any further /proper investigation in an already ongoing investigation.” A city ADJ court on July 21 directed a private complaint to be investigated by the SOG in relation to the money trail in the Sanjeevani Credit Cooperative Society scam case. Shekhawat has been named along with his wife and others in the complaint related to the Sanjivani Credit Cooperative Society scam in which about 50,000 investors allegedly lost about Rs 884 crore. The Jaipur unit of the SOG has been probing the scam case since last year. An FIR was registered in connection with the case on August 23, 2019. Shekhawat was not named as an accused in the chargesheet filed by the SOG in connection with the case. In the investigation, the money trail was found to be linked to the real estate project of the minister and his associates including Kewal Chand Dakalia. In their application by complainants Gulam Singh and Laboo Singh had claimed that a money trail mentioned in the FIR led to companies allegedly linked to the minister. But the SOG did not investigate the role of Shekhawat or the company, the two Barmer residents had alleged. The complainants alleged that the SOG deliberately protected Shekhawat and some others who did not figure in the charge sheet. The Special Operations Group has already sent a notice to the minister in connection with a probe into another case pertaining to audio clips which purportedly indicate efforts to lure MLAs away from the Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-seeks-govt-reply-on-plea-to-quash-shekhawat-probe/articleshow/77230045.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi high court judge gives part of salary for lawyer fund||NEW DELHI: With extended closure of courts taking its toll on litigation and lawyers, leading to depression and even death by suicide, help appears to be coming now from the judiciary. On Tuesday, Justice Siddharth Mridul of Delhi high court contributed from his salary towards the lawyer’s welfare fund set up for Covid-19 by the Bar Council of Delhi (BCD), becoming the first judge to do so. The fund has been set up by the council to help poor and needy lawyers hit hard by the closure of physical functioning of courts due to the pandemic. In a recent hearing before the high court, the BCD had submitted that since the start of the lockdown, it has paid a Rs 5,000 each to 16,448 advocates coming to a total of Rs 8.22 crore and the process is still on. TOI has also learnt that following justice Mridul’s example, most judges posted at Rohini court complex plan to contribute significantly towards the welfare of lawyers so that the amount can be utilised for their benefit. The subordinate court judges are leant to have sought permission from the HC in this regard. Speaking to TOI, Bar Council of Delhi chairman K C Mittal confirmed the development. “We are indeed grateful to honourable justice Siddharth Mridul for donating Rs 1 lakh to BCD. We hope that others also come forward to donate generously,” Mittal said. The Bar Council of India also welcomed the help coming from the judiciary. Ved Prakash Sharma, co-chairman of BCI told TOI the Council “highly appreciates the affectionate gesture of Hon'ble Justice Sidharth Mridul in making a contribution in Lawyers' welfare fund of Bar Council of Delhi for financial assistance to young and needy lawyers distressed due to the pandemic Covid 19 and continued suspension of normal court functioning which has drained out their financial resources.” Sharma added that justice Mridul is a former member and vice chairman of BCD and “has befittingly responded to the pathetic conditions lawyers are forced to live in due to the unprecedented crisis caused by the pandemic and closure of physical court functioning. This contribution made by justice Mridul will inspire all Senior members of the bar and Judges alike to do their bit for needy lawyers grappling with the worst phase of their life.” Apart from a Covid fund, the BCD has also set up an Indigent and Disabled Lawyers' Committee, looking at the gravity of the prevailing situation, to support advocates suffering from COVID-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-judge-gives-part-of-salary-for-lawyer-fund/articleshow/77230796.cms||Abhinav Garg
July 29, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Wanderlust ‘drives’ this elderly Kottarakara couple||KOCHI: The pandemic and the resultant lockdown have increased the risk of social isolation of the elderly. The effects, however, have been felt differently by different people. For Paloor Pappachan, an 80-year-old resident of Kottarakara, and his wife Thankamma, 75, both retired school teachers, this has meant derailed travel plans -- both within the country and beyond its shores. A passionate driver even at his age, Pappachan misses the frequent road trips the couple took across south India. Even now, this octogenarian is crazy about driving and the couple is busy with their post-Covid travel plans. Ever since Pappachan’s retirement in 1997, the couple has been chasing the dream by going on one or two tours every year. Being avid leftists, their first priority were the communist countries: China and Russia. Frankfurt, Paris, London and Sydney have also been crossed off the list. In India, they have visited places such as Jaipur, Kolkata, Delhi, Mumbai, and Hyderabad, among others, by train. “Countries like the US, Canada, UAE are in our list. Our children and grandchildren are well-settled. By god’s grace we are healthy and have the financial background to fulfil our dreams. But Covid-19 has forced us to stay indoors. We are not used to this, but there is no way out. We will resume our tours once the pandemic is over,” says Pappachan, sitting in the driver’s seat of his favourite MUV. Before he became a school teacher, Pappachan was a driver in the Indian Army and has driven trucks during the wars with China and Pakistan. It was his passion for driving large trucks that made him join the Army at the age of 20. “I was in the Army for six years and returned to join the school in my native place as a physical education instructor. Alongside I started a ration shop and was a timber trader. Driving large trucks and vehicles to other states as part of work has been a passion which refuses to die down,” he said. Thankamma believes driving and touring have helped Pappachan keep happy and healthy. “Before the lockdown, visiting Madurai and Kuttalam at least twice a month was his hobby. Most of these trips are unplanned. He would decide, on the spur of the moment, to make the 85km drive to Kuttalam waterfalls alone. Sometimes, he would ask me to accompany him. During festivals, we do the shopping in Madurai, so that he could drive there,” says Thankamma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/wanderlust-drives-this-elderly-kottarakara-couple/articleshow/77227577.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||MBBS students move high court||Ahmedabad: As many as 146 MBBS students moved the Gujarat high court on Tuesday against the government’s diktat for them to join Covid-19 duty as ‘Corona Sahayaks’ and the threat that their academic sessions would not be granted if they failed to report for this ‘voluntary’ service. Third-year students of NHL Municipal Medical College and LG Hospital and Medical College challenged the circular issued by the colleges on July 17, July 22 and July 24, asking them to assist in the fight against Covid-19. They contended that such “voluntarism” cannot be thrust upon them. Had they been called for voluntary service earlier, they would have gladly joined, but now they have to focus on their studies and examinations. They have argued in the petition that four months of their academic sessions have been wasted. “Had the petitioners been called a few months earlier they would have been wedded to the call of the nation,” their petition reads. The students took strong exception to the threat of action against them under the Epidemic Disease Act and the Disaster Management Act, and that the colleges would not clear their present term, which would render them disqualified for final-year studies. They submitted that the government can summon anybody for duty under these laws, but they should be spared at this juncture. The work they are required for could be given to health workers, compounders or nurses, who are now available in abundance due to the prevailing unemployment. These students cited the example of a Surat medical college that has offered incentives in the form of grace marks, accommodation etc to MBBS students for volunteering as corona sahayaks. In Ahmedabad, some students joined the training modules under duress and threat. They reiterated that “any voluntary service cannot be compulsory”. Requesting the quashing of the circular and show-cause notices issued by AMC colleges, they argued that pursuing studies is their fundamental right. They submitted that there are 22 medical colleges in the state and nearly 3,000 students are in Part I and Part II of the third year. Of all these colleges, only AMC-run colleges have taken such a decision that risks the lives of students in the time of a pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mbbs-students-move-high-court/articleshow/77228990.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Agri varsityties up with ISB on T Sona rice||Hyderabad: The agriculture department and Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) will be working with the Indian School of Business (ISB) to come up with strategies for branding and marketing of ‘Telangana Sona’ rice variety. Telangana Sona has the lowest glycemic index among all known varieties of paddy in the state, making it ideal for rice-eating diabetic population. Telangana Sona (RNR 15048) is a paddy variety developed by PJTSAU with characteristics such as fine grain, high yielding quality and blast resistance. The paddy variety is advantageous for farmers as it grows in a relatively shorter time (125 days vs the average of 150 days) and is suitable for cultivation in both vanakalam and yasangi (kharif and rabi) seasons. Further, in comparison to other popular varieties of paddy, the composition of protein, carbohydrates, energy, niacin (vitamin B3) is also higher.  Speaking about the importance of the new paddy variety, B Janardhan Reddy, secretary to government, agriculture department, said: “Sometimes, initially a good face also requires make-up. Similarly, Telangana Sona needs branding and market.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/agri-varsityties-up-with-isb-on-t-sona-rice/articleshow/77230798.cms||Roushan Ali
July 29, 2020||Kolkata||Surgery gets denture out of Cov patient’s food pipe||Kolkata: In a first, a Covid positive patient underwent an emergency surgery in a non-Covid facility, the state-run NRS Medical College Hospital on Tuesday. Doctors said the 40-year-old had arrived at the hospital’s emergency ward after he had accidentally swallowed a denture. The patient complained of severe pain and inability to breathe. The denture was stuck in the patient’s food pipe. The doctors felt his condition was life-threatening and he required immediate surgery. The patient was tested for Covid and the report was sought very quickly. On Tuesday morning, before the patient was wheeled into the operation theatre (OT), the report came, saying the patient tested positive for Covid. The doctors, however, did not stop the procedure. The team led by ENT surgeons P Banerjee, A Maity and B Sikdar, along with the surgery team, took all Covid precautions, donning the PPE gear, and performed the surgery. The denture was removed and the patient is recovering well, a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/surgery-gets-denture-out-of-cov-patients-food-pipe/articleshow/77228972.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Hyderabad||PM Modi show at Ayodhya violates oath, says Asaduddin Owaisi||HYDERABAD: A week before the ground-breaking ceremony of Ram temple in Ayodhya, AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi lashed out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He said by attending the bhumi puja in his official capacity as PM, Modi would be violating the constitutional oath he took when he assumed office. The bhumi puja is slated for August 5, which will be attended by the PM. In a tweet on Tuesday, the AIMIM chief said: “Secularism is part of the Basic Structure of Constitution. We can’t forget that for over 400 years Babri stood in Ayodhya & it was demolished by a criminal mob in 1992 (sic).” Speaking to a news agency, the AIMIM president said the PM should not attend the event. If he attends the function as PM, a message would go across the country that the Prime Minister is supporting one faith. “If he attends the event in his individual capacity, nobody will raise an objection and like others, he can also follow his religion. But, the PM is also a constitutional head and the Constitution is related to the basic structure of secularism,” Asaduddin said. The Hyderabad MP said even if the PM wants to go in his personal capacity, no television channel should telecast it live. Reacting to the tweet, Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay said Modi can attend any event related to the Ram mandir since the Supreme Court had already given a verdict on the issue. He said Asaduddin did not have respect or faith in courts, Constitution and people. “Hindus also won’t forget the history and atrocities on them across the country,” the BJP president said. He had said, “The Supreme Court is supreme, but not infallible. These are not my words. I am reiterating the words of Justice JS Verma.” He also said Muslims should reject the five acres given to them to build a mosque. When SC delivered verdict on Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid title dispute last year, AIMIM president expressed his dissatisfaction and termed it as a “victory of faith over facts”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pm-modi-show-at-ayodhya-violates-oath-says-asad/articleshow/77230794.cms||Koride Mahesh
July 29, 2020||Kolkata||12-year-old boy dies of dengue||KOLKATA: A 12-year-old boy from Tiljala died of dengue shock syndrome on Tuesday afternoon. This is the first reported dengue death in the city this season. Doctors said while the focus was on Covid, the administration should also take up measures to counter the mosquito menace. At least three more children are admitted to Institute of Child Health (ICH) with dengue fever. Faizan Ahmed (12) from Tiljala had been suffering from fever for the past few days. According to the hospital, the boy’s family brought him to ICH on Monday night in a critical condition. Because of his serious condition, doctors admitted to the boy in the hospital’s PICU (paediatric intensive care unit). From the symptoms doctors suspected dengue and sent the boy’s samples for confirmation. “The boy died of dengue shock syndrome in the PICU. He was admitted on Monday night in a serious condition. We got his dengue-positive report about an hour after his death,” said paediatric intensivist Prabhas Prasun Giri, in charge of the PICU at ICH. The hospital currently has three more dengue-positive children undergoing treatment, including one in the PICU. Condition of the three, however, is stable, doctors said. So far, the hospital has treated 12 children for dengue, including five in the PICU. Most of the children were from Tiljala, Topsia and Park Circus localities. “While countering Covid, we must not be ignoring dengue. In such a case, things can turn very ugly on the dengue front. A few days ago, we even got a boy, who was down with both dengue and Covid,” said Giri. A boy from Beniapukur, who was brought to ICH on July 21, was found infected with both Covid and dengue. But since ICH does not have the facility for treating Covid patients, the boy who had been admitted in the isolation ward, was then referred to Medical College and Hospital after the Covid confirmatory report came.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/12-yr-old-boy-dies-of-dengue/articleshow/77228969.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 29, 2020||Dehradun||Cops jab keys into man’s forehead for not wearing helmet, hosp conducts surgery to remove them, 3 policemen suspended||Rudrapur: Three policemen in Uttarakhand have been suspended for allegedly jabbing keys into the forehead of a man after a heated argument over not wearing a helmet in Rudrapur. The 25-year-old man had to undergo a minor surgery to remove the keys from his forehead. A video of the bike rider, identified as Deepak Koli, that showed the keys sticking out from his bleeding temple has gone viral on social media. The incident occurred on Monday when Koli, who was riding the bike as his friend sat pillion, was stopped by the City Patrol Unit team at Indira Chowk for not wearing a helmet. An argument ensued and one of the policemen allegedly jabbed Koli’s forehead with the keys of the bike. Koli was taken to the hospital where he had to undergo a minor surgery to take the keys out. As the video of the incident was shared on social media, 100-odd residents of Rampura Colony — where Koli lives — hit the roads demanding action against cops’ brutality. A mob also pelted stones at the Rampura police outpost and city police station and attempted to vandalise vehicles and public property. Police had to resort to lathicharge. The mob was pacified after local MLA Rajkumar Thakral and superintendent of police (crime) Pramod Kumar rushed to the spot. On Tuesday, 100 unidentified people were booked for rioting, unlawful assembly and under various other sections of the IPC. “The director general of police (law and order), Ashok Kumar, has issued suspension orders of three cops, including sub-inspector Ram Praveen and constables Virendra Chauhan and Jagdish Joshi,” the SP told TOI. A probe into the incident is being led by circle officer (Bazpur) Deepshikha Agrawal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cops-jab-keys-into-mans-forehead-for-not-wearing-helmet-hosp-conducts-surgery-to-remove-them-3-policemen-suspended/articleshow/77225999.cms||Aakash Ahuja
July 29, 2020||Kolkata||Covid patient’s body lies at home for 8 hrs||Kolkata: The body of a 63-year-old Covid patient was left at his residence for eight hours before the KMC, police and health department arrived. The incident was reported from Matheswartala Road under the Pragati Maidan police station. The elderly man was in home quarantine after being detected with Covid. He passed away around 5am on Tuesday. As the family struggled for a doctor, the administration allegedly kept passing the buck. The KMC and police finally took the body away around 1pm. The police, however, denied there was any delay. “A death certificate is a must. There is also a mandatory waiting time before issuing a death certificate. There was no question of any delay and everything was arranged in the quickest possible time,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-patients-body-lies-at-home-for-8-hrs/articleshow/77228983.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Nagpur||Cadasta Foundation, Waatavaran to secure forest rights under FRA||Nagpur: Cadasta Foundation and Waatavaran have joined hands to secure the land claims of scheduled caste and tribal communities in Western India. Cadasta, the US-based non-profit organization, and Waatavaran began collaborating in October 2019 in support of a shared mission to promote equitable and sustainable development. With funding from Omidyar India and Nudge Foundation, Waatavaran is leveraging training and tools offered by Cadasta to more efficiently map and collect community spatial and household data for scheduled caste and tribal communities living in the forests of Raigad district in Maharashtra. Currently, these communities lack any form of formal records or proof of their communal and individual forest rights. Once documented, the community and individual claims will be submitted to local village councils for the first step of approval of their formal individual and community forest right titles under the Forest Rights Act (FRA) of 2006. Using Cadasta’s Esri-based platform — with its accessible satellite imagery, mobile tools, and digital maps — the project began data collection last month and aims to document 2,000 households, representing 12,000 citizens. Commenting on their partnership with Cadasta, Waatavaran founder and CEO Bhagwan Kesbhat said, “Even though satellite imagery is accepted as an evidentiary document for claiming land rights under the FRA, its use was unexplored in Maharashtra until our collaboration with Cadasta.” “Working with Cadasta has given us access to innovative technology that allows us to use satellite imagery to map land parcels which will be submitted soon as evidentiary documents,” he said. Kesbhat continues, “Cadasta’s user-friendly platform allows us to work in remote areas both online and offline and has enabled us to conduct on-site mapping, surveys, and submission of documents that has helped us engage, develop, and strengthen our bonds of trust with these tribal communities.” The Cadasta platform has also eased the process of data collection due to its convenient digital interface. The data stored on the server can be accessed at any time and thus manual paperwork is reduced. Moreover, since the application is available on mobile phones, its accessibility is maximized and no high-tech devices were required for land mapping. As the survey format for collecting data can be converted into multiple regional languages, it has widened ability to reach locals. This technology holds great potential to be scaled up and used to create a digital database of these land parcels. Reflecting on the partnership, Cadasta CEO Amy Coughenour noted, “Cadasta is thrilled to partner with Waatavaran, a climate justice leader in India. By working together to document and secure the land and forest rights of tribal communities in Maharashtra, we are helping communities protect forest land and improve their livelihoods.” With Waatavaran’s strategic community work and Cadasta’s innovative tools and training, this project will lead to empowerment of forest dwelling individuals and communities to sustainably use, manage, govern, and protect forest land and resources now and for generations to come. Founded in 2015, Cadasta Foundation develops and promotes use of simple digital tools and technology to help partners efficiently document, analyse, store, and share critical land and resource rights information. “By creating an accessible digital record of land, property, and resource rights, we help empower individuals, communities, organizations, governments, and businesses with the information they need to make data-driven decisions and put vulnerable communities and their needs on the map,” says Coughenour. Waatavaran is a social venture based in Mumbai, which believes in a climate just environment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cadasta-foundation-waatavaran-to-secure-forest-rights-under-fra/articleshow/77250808.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 29, 2020||Dehradun||Priests to restrict entry of outsiders in Gangotri till August 15||Uttarkashi: To protest the Char Dham Yatra during Covid-19 pandemic and Devasthanam Management Board Act, the priest community in Gangotri has decided to restrict the entry of any outsider to the town. This restriction, they say, will begin from Wednesday (July 29) and continue till August 15. “Despite opposition by priests, the state government started the Char Dham Yatra. This has increased the threat of spread of the pandemic in the shrine. Therefore, priests and seers residing in the shrine have decided to ban the entry of any outsider in the Gangotri town,” said Suresh Semwal, president of Gangotri temple committee. Echoing his viewpoint, Deepak Semwal, general secretary of Gangotri temple committee, said, “The priest community also had hopes for a great yatra season this year, but unfortunately a deadly virus has spread all over the globe and the situation is turning worse day by day in our country and state. It is not wise to start the yatra during such dire times. We have decided to restrict the entry of outsiders to contain the spread of contamination in the shrine and nearby villages.” Meanwhile, the local administration has decried the move and assured that they will convince the priests to open the shrine. “We will talk to the priests and convince them to open the shrine so that pilgrims can visit the temple without any trouble,” said Uttarkashi district magistrate Ashish Chauhan. The official added that all necessary steps to check the spread of the virus in the district are being taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/priests-to-restrict-entry-of-outsiders-in-gangotri-till-august-15/articleshow/77226009.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
July 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Can’t understand what’s happening, says Hany Babu’s wife||NEW DELHI: Around 5pm on Tuesday, National Investigation Agency (NIA) informed Jenny Rowena that her husband, DU associate professor Hany Babu MT, had been arrested in connection with the Bhima Koregaon incident. Since then, she can’t understand “what is happening”. “He had got a summon two weeks ago. We thought it was for the recording of the witness statement as he is working with the defence committee” for the release of DU teacher G N Saibaba, Rowena, who also teaches at Delhi University, told TOI. But NIA is saying it has found “a folder in My Document section of a laptop, which has highly incriminating material showing him as a top Maoist leader”, she said. “They had asked him for an explanation and said only after that he will be allowed to go.” On September 10, 2019, Pune Police raided the house of the English department teacher and seized laptops, books and other electronic materials. Babu has been the convener of the defence committee for disabled Saibaba, who has been charged under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act and is lodged in the anda cell of Nagpur Central Jail. His bail plea was rejected again on Tuesday. According to Rowena, the documents NIA is citing are from February to April 2019. “NIA asked if those documents were put in by students or by me. But Babu told them it wasn’t his. We are not even connected with any political group,” she said. DU teachers and students have called Babu’s arrest a witch-hunt and demanded release of political prisoners. All India Students’ Association said students would fight against these unlawful arrests, while Students’ Federation of India also called the case fabricated. “This absolute fascist attack on every single democratic voice is utterly dangerous,” said Abha Dev Habib, a teacher at Miranda House.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cant-understand-whats-happening-says-babus-wife/articleshow/77230805.cms||Shradha Chettri
July 29, 2020||Surat||Surat: Art silk shortage hits Banarasi sari makers||SURAT: Manufacturing of the famed Banarasi saris in PM Narendra Modi’s constituency Varanasi and other weaving centres in Uttar Pradesh has been hit hard due to lockdown that resulted in decrease in production of key raw material — art silk yarn, from Surat. The production of art silk or polyester silk yarn, used in the weaving of Banarasi saris, has come down to 500 tonne per month from over 11,000 tonne per month pre-lockdown, mainly because of the exodus of migrant workers. Surat is the largest supplier of art silk yarn to the Banarasi sari weavers in Varanasi and Mau districts — the main manufacturing hubs for the famed saris. Industry sources said that about half a dozen yarn spinners manufacture art silk yarn in Surat. While about 70% of the multi-coloured yarn is supplied to Banarasi sari weaver, the rest is supplied to the garment units for suiting and shirting, dress material for a blended silk fabric texture. Shakeel Ahmed, a Banarasi sari weaver having 300 weaving machines in Mau and Varanasi districts, told TOI, “Pre-lockdown the daily production of Banarasi saris in Varanasi and Mau districts put together was about four lakh pieces per day, which has now come down to less than 20,000 pieces per day." “Our monthly consumption of art silk yarn is in the range of 200-250 tonnes. Post-lockdown, we are getting less than 40 tonnes from Surat,” added Ahmed. Another weaver in Varanasi, Shoeb Ommarji told TOI, “Weavers here are totally dependent on Surat for the supply of raw material. We expect a hike in demand for Banarasi saris with the fast approaching festival season in August.” Till a few years ago, the weavers of Banarasi saris were using imported Chinese silk yarn for manufacturing the heavy, zardozi-worked silk . However, the anti-dumping duty on the imported silk yarn gave an opportunity to the Surat yarn manufacturers to provide an alternative to the imported silk yarn. For the last few years, Surat has been supplying its synthetic variant of silk yarn in a variety of colours. Chairman of Madhusudan Group, Girdhar Gopal Mundra, told TOI, “There is no production of yarn at our unit due to the shortage of workers. We are the largest supplier of art silk yarn to Varanasi and Mau. We have the old stock of yarn, but we are supplying it to those who are able to pay us in cash.” Another yarn manufacturer, Vinay Agarwal said, “Ramping up production of yarn requires huge investment. Currently, we are producing less than 10% of our manufacturing capacity. Also, there is a huge amount outstanding of the weavers in Varanasi and we can’t take the risk of supplying them yarn on credit, though we have old stock lying with us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/production-of-art-silk-dips-in-surat/articleshow/77227591.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Jaipur||BJP questions Priyanka Gandhi’s silence on merger of six BSP MLAs with Congress||JAIPUR: State BJP president Satish Poonia on Tuesday questioned Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s silence over the ‘illegal’ merger of BSP MLAs with the Congress. He was reacting to a tweet by Vadra where she called BSP supremo Mayawati (without naming) as the undeclared spokesperson of the BJP after the latter announced to challenge the merger in the Supreme Court and teach chief minister Ashok Gehlot a lesson. “Today you are calling them (BSP) BJP’s spokesperson but don’t forget that you made your government in Rajasthan riding on the back of these spokespersons. You didn’t tweet that time when your party snatched the BSPs mandate in the state. You are accusing us of killing the spirit of democracy and constitution in the country. Do read the history of your family how they have assaulted the democracy,” said Poonia. Responding to allegation of his party playing an active role in toppling the Congress government, Poonia said that it is the Congress party which has made gross misuse of Article 356. “The Congress has a record in toppling the democratically elected governments. It is time that you should look after your house and do not blame others for the disorder in your party,” said Poonia. Poonia reminded Congress that they had achieved the mandate in 2008 and 2018 by ‘illegally’ merging BSP MLAs. “Rajasthan Congress has earned the distinction in getting mandate by eating away the smaller parties and independents. This management is part of the Congress working style,” said Poonia. He also questioned the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) support to the Congress party two days after one of the MLA Rajkumar Roat videos of him being harassed by the police went viral. “The MLA Roat seen slamming the government seen supporting the party and changing his statement in a press conference clearly shows what is happening in the Congress camp lodged in a hotel since July 13,” said Poonia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-questions-priyankas-silence-on-merger-of-six-bsp-mlas-with-cong/articleshow/77230048.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Jaipur||NSUI, ABVP stir on Rajasthan University campus||JAIPUR: NSUI on Tuesday staged a protest in Rajasthan University against ABVP national president Subbiah Shanmugam for allegedly harassing a woman. A FIR was filed against Shanmugam for allegedly harassing a woman in Chennai. The woman, however, withdrew her complaint on July 25, a few hours after police registered the FIR. NSUI spokesperson Ramesh Bhati said, “We organised a peaceful protest on the university campus. The woman had withdrawn her complaint after pressure from ABVP. They are misusing their power and NSUI will stand up for women’s rights wherever necessary. The culprit must be punished.” Meanwhile, ABVP also organised a protest on the campus against NSUI stating that the union is stretching the matter between two families unnecessarily. Hushyaar Meena, state president of ABVP-Rajasthan, who was present in the protest said, “NSUI is just dragging the issue which has already been taken care of as the woman has withdrawn her complaint. Subbiah Shanmugam is a doctor who has been working tirelessly during the pandemic. We will take legal action against them or maligning the image of our leader without any proof.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nsui-abvp-stir-on-ru-campus/articleshow/77230047.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad’s tally of cases crosses 26,000, death toll at 1,583||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Tuesday recorded 1,108 new Covid-19 positive cases, taking the total to 57,982. It was the second time in three days that the state’s daily tally crossed 1,100 cases. The cases include 293 from Surat, 156 from Ahmedabad, 91 from Vadodara and 79 from Rajkot. With the update, the total tally in Ahmedabad and Surat districts are 26,000-plus and 12,000-plus. The state also recorded deaths of 24 positive patients, taking the toll to 2,372. The deaths included 12 from Surat and four from Ahmedabad, taking the death toll in the districts to 379 and 1,583 respectively. In the past one week, Surat has recorded less than 10 deaths only once on July 28. Bhavnagar, Rajkot and Jamnagar recorded two deaths each whereas Vadodara and Gandhinagar recorded one death each. A total of 1,032 patients got discharged in 24 hours in the state, taking the total to 42,412. It was the second consecutive day for the state to record 1,000-plus discharges in a day. The discharges included 248 from Surat, 166 from Ahmedabad, 71 from Rajkot and 51 from Vadodara. With the update, the state now has 13,198 active patients, which is 22.8% of the total patients so far. The share of deceased and discharged patients is 4.1% and 73.1% respectively. On Tuesday evening, Gujarat had 87 patients on ventilator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabads-tally-of-cases-crosses-26k-death-toll-at-1583/articleshow/77228978.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Hyderabad||More protection can help Kawal tiger status: Report||HYDERABAD: Though ‘Status of Tiger Report-2018’ said Telangana has 26 big cats, ‘Tiger Census’, which was released by the Union environment ministry on the eve of Global Tiger Day on Tuesday, revealed that both Kawal tiger reserve and Amrabad tiger reserve have “smaller tiger population and are below their potential”. Along with the population estimates of tigers in reserves for 2018-19, the report, ‘Status of Tigers– Co-predators and Prey in India’ said: “Of 50 tiger reserves in the country, 11, including Kawal and Amrabad in Telangana, were below their potential and require resources and targeted management to increase tiger population. “In areas where tigers have not been recorded or the population has declined, restoration needs to proceed by improving protection, augmentation of prey, and reintroduction of tigers from an appropriate source,” it said. The tiger status of Kawal, and Amrabad would benefit substantially with enhanced protection and better law and order situation, it added. However, while the total population of the tiger in Telangana still stands at 26 as estimated by ‘Tiger Status Report’, the report released on Tuesday indicates that only 10 tigers were identified in Kawal, Amrabad, Kagaznagar and Chennur forest areas. “If there are 2,970 tigers in India, all these big cats are not identified with camera trap images, direct sighting or definite evidences. Of them, only about 800 or 900 would be through definite evidences and the rest could be through calculations, depending on indirect evidences,” senior forest official A Shankaran said.  “For instance, if they said Amrabad has seven tigers, it means there are seven definite information through camera trap images or scat which is analysed in a lab. It is the same with the remaining three tigers identified in Kawal, Chennur and Kagaznagar. Rest 16 tigers are calculated using indirect evidences such as pug marks, faecal droppings and scratches on trees and left-over prey,” he added. However, wildlife conservationists say the mismatch in tiger numbers and tiger-bearing forests published in the report were a matter of serious concern. “As per Tiger Action Task force we cannot consider these methods of direct and indirect sightings. So, we should go by accepted method. Pugmark methods were faulty generally over estimating numbers and have been discontinued since 2006. I am sure the NTCA is not using it anymore. Why numbers are different only WII (Wildlife Institute of India) can probably explain,” said Diya Sur Banerjee, a wildlife conservationist. The report also states that a few tiger bearing forest areas in Telangana such as Chennur forest division are vulnerable to poaching.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/more-protection-can-help-kawal-tiger-status-report/articleshow/77230804.cms||Moulika.KV
July 29, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Private owners threaten to pull buses off roads||Thiruvananthapuram: Private bus operators have once again threatened to pull off their fleet from the road from August 1. The operators who informed the state government about their latest decision said they were forced to resort to such an extreme strep as running the service was proving increasingly unviable in these pandemic times without proper support from the government. The Kerala State Private Bus Operators’ Federation leaders said the recent fare hike announced by the state government too has failed to mitigate the losses of the bus owners. “The private bus industry is going through the worst time in its history. The marginal increase in fares could have reflected in the collection but has been sucked out by the diesel price increase. Though buses resumed service by May 19, not even 20% of private buses hit the roads since then. The scene did not change a bit even after the state government agreed for an increase in fare later on. Not many people are ready to board the buses due to the fear of Covid-19,” said federation chairman Lawrence Babu. Where an average Rs 700 increase was expected from the fare hike, the steep increase in diesel prices not only set off the prospective gain, but also deepened the magnitude of loss, said the federation general secretary T Gopinathan. In view of the impossible situation, the bus operators would be submitting G-Form at the respective RTP offices to save themselves from paying road tax. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/private-owners-threaten-to-pull-buses-off-roads/articleshow/77228986.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Jaipur||Govind Singh Dotasra to take charge as PCC president today||JAIPUR: Newly appointed PCC president Govind Singh Dotasra will assume office on Wednesday. AICC general secretary K C Venugopal, Avinash Pande and chief minister Ashok Gehlot will be present at the PCC office on the occasion. According to RPCC media chairperson Archana Sharma, Dotasra will assume office at 10am. Dotasra, who is also the minister for school education in the Gehlot council of ministers, was appointed PCC president on July 14 replacing Sachin Pilot following a rebellion within the ruling Congress led by latter. The party also sacked Mukesh Bhakar and Rakesh Pareek as presidents of frontal organisations, Youth Congress and Sewa Dal. Ganesh Ghoghra, an MLA from Dungarpur, and Hem Singh Shekhawat were given the posts. The party had also dissolved all the district and block committees apart from the state executive as part of the change of guard. Dotasra who is an MLA from Lakshmangarh in Sikar district is a three-time MLA and belongs to the numerically strong Jat community. Born on October 1, 1964 in Kriparam ji ki Dhani in Lakshmangarh of Sikar district, 55-year-old Dotasra had started his career at the grassroot level in the party while working as a lawyer. Dotasra is assuming the charge when the party is passing through one of its most difficult times in its history in the state, with a section of MLAs led by Sachin Pilot had revolted seeking a change in the leadership of chief minister Gehlot. The impasse still continues. Pilot was not only the deputy chief minister but was holding the post of party state unit chief. In fact, Pilot had the distinction of holding the post of party state chief for the longest period, surpassing veteran Congress leader Parasram Maderna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dotasra-to-take-charge-as-pcc-president-today/articleshow/77230052.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Kolkata||EB raids on markets to keep prices of essentials in check||KOLKATA: The enforcement branch of Kolkata Police on Tuesday visited several markets in north and central Kolkata a day before the lockdown following allegations that people were being asked to buy vegetables at higher prices. Cops interacted with buyers at Maniktala and College Street markets and asked the sellers about the reason behind sudden rise in prices. They also enquired about the wholesale markets. The EB teams are likely to send reports in this regard to the police headquarters and finally Nabanna. The EB officials said they would be raiding the markets regularly before lockdown days to keep the prices in check. They collected the prices of essentials like rice, cereals and pulses in the past few days. “We carried out the raids to ensure that there was no hoarding and that people were not charged above the maximum retail price. We also wanted to ensure that no shop was closed, causing inconvenience to people,” said a police officer, adding that they had enquired whether there had been short supply at Koley Market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/eb-raids-on-markets-to-keep-prices-of-essentials-in-check/articleshow/77228996.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Attendants destroy furniture at MGM hospital||WARANGAL: Enraged relatives of a 60-year-old man, who died of Covid-19 symptoms, destroyed furniture and tried to attack duty doctors in the government MGM Hospital, here on Tuesday. According to Mattewada inspector T Ganesh, the frustrated relatives vent their ire on the furniture inside the Covid-19 ward. Ironically, the ward didn’t have an oxygen cylinder to help patients with breathing problems. The duty doctor said the patient had respiratory problem and was suffering with Covid-19 symptoms. He was admitted in the Covid-19 ward. “His samples were collected and sent for testing. Within an hour, the patient’s condition turned serious and we informed his relatives that he requires oxygen. However, we do not have an oxygen cylinder here and we suggested to them to take him immediately to a private hospital or Gandhi Hospital. Meanwhile, the patient’s condition worsened and he died in the hospital,” the doctor said. “Soon after the man’s death, his relatives damaged furniture and threw chairs at the doctors. They also broke window panes. We immediately informed police. The Mattewada police rushed to the hospital and convinced the enraged attendants to cool down. They are now investigating the case,” he added. MGM hospital superintendent resigns: Meanwhile, MGM hospital superintendent B Srinivasa Rao resigned and sent a copy of his resignation to the DME . He stated that he has been suffering from high blood pressure and was feeling ill for the past two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/attendants-destroy-furniture-at-mgm-hospital/articleshow/77230806.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
July 29, 2020||Delhi||Nine cops on duty at Delhi's Red Fort caught sleeping||NEW DELHI: At least nine policemen on duty in the Red Fort area were caught sleeping during a security inspection conducted on Saturday night after a woman was allegedly raped and hit with a stone in a park behind the high-security zone in the early afternoon. The woman has alleged that the accused, who used to stay with her at a nearby footpath, raped her in the park. When she resisted, he allegedly hit her with a stone too. Hearing her cries for help, a security official deployed at Red Fort reached the spot, but the accused managed to flee. The security official found the woman in an injured state in the park and police took her to a nearby hospital. “The woman said she was in the park with her two-year-old daughter when the accused tried to force himself on her. As the security official came running, the man fled with the survivor’s daughter. However, the child was later found in the park and reunited with her mother in the evening. The man was arrested the following day,” said a senior police officer. Soon after the incident, the top brass ordered an inspection of security arrangements and told police officers to ensure that nobody entered isolated stretches or parks in the area. The inspection was conducted by sub-inspector Raj Pal Meena, who is in charge of the Red Fort police post. In a diary entry, Meena reported, “In view of the upcoming Independence Day celebrations, I carried out a check and found an ASI deployed at the main entry gate sleeping.” A constable was found sleeping in his car near Sunehri Masjid and two more on duty at the Shanti Van Chowk point were caught sleeping inside a traffic booth, Meena added.  Near the central gate, another constable had placed a polythene sheet and slept on it, while at the Chatta rail point, two were found sleeping inside a traffic booth. Two more constables on duty were sleeping in their car. “A video of the cops on duty and sleeping was also made,” the officer reported. After senior officers were informed about the cops, they were removed from duty and sent back to their battalions, a source said. Watch Delhi: Nine cops on duty at Red Fort caught sleeping||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/9-cops-on-duty-at-red-fort-caught-sleeping/articleshow/77230810.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Dehradun||Level in Naini lake hits July record||Nainital: As water level in Naini lake broke its all-time record in July by touching 10 feet 9 inches, its floodgates were opened on Tuesday. The Naini lake is a major tourist attraction in Nainital and the only source of drinking water for over 40,000 residents of the town. On Sunday, the water level in the lake touched 10 feet 9 inches. The officials of the irrigation department, the body tasked with maintaining the lake, said that the floodgates have been opened an inch each to let the water level come down to around 10 feet. HC Singh, executive engineer, Nainital irrigation division, said, “Regulations mandate that water should be retained upto eight feet six inches in the month of July. The water level by the end of August should be around 10 feet. However, since the water level is already nearing 11 feet, which is the level for mid-September, it has been decided to open the floodgates.” Singh added that the lake’s floodgates have been opened in a limited way so that there is no damage caused to the nearby areas. “We aim to bring down and then maintain the water level in the lake at around 10 feet.” Keeping in view the safety of people, Jeolikote police has advised people not to go near the drains Baliya and Gaula. Experts as well as officials of the irrigation department have credited the Covid- induced lockdown for the rise in water level in the lake. “The water level in the lake generally goes down in summers. In May 2017, it had dropped to -7ft. However, since there has been almost no tourist activity since late March because of the lockdown, the water level has been steadily rising,” said Ajay Singh Rawat, a Nainital-based environmentalist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/level-in-naini-lake-hits-july-record/articleshow/77226017.cms||Prashant Jha
July 29, 2020||Kolkata||SIT to monitor shelter escape case||Kolkata: Calcutta High Court on Monday constituted a three-member special investigation team (SIT) to monitor investigation of a case regarding the escape of 13 juvenile inmates of Dhrubashram home in Ariadaha, North 24 Parganas, in March. The bench of Justice Harish Tandon and Justice Soumen Sen stated that the SIT would monitor and file report on the investigation as and when directed. The members of the SIT are Ajay Ranade, ADG (planning), Damayanti Sen, additional CP of Kolkata and Pranav Kumar, DIG, CID.The court also described the condition of the Liluah home and the Kishalaya home as deplorable. It directed the secretary of women and child welfare and social welfare department to file a comprehensive report in the form of an affidavit regarding infrastructural facilities in each of the homes, keeping in mind the health, hygiene, safety and the security of the children at such homes are of paramount importance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sit-to-monitor-shelter-escape-case/articleshow/77228991.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
July 29, 2020||India||SC refuses to tinker with Vikas Dubey panel||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday rejected spirited attempts by two PIL petitioners to get ex-DGP K L Gupta, a member of the Justice B S Chauhan Commission inquiring into the killing of eight policemen and the subsequent encounter killings of gangster Vikas Dubey and his four associates, replaced. Two advocates-cum-PIL petitioners, Ghanshyam Upadhyay and Anoop Prakash Awasthi, read out portions of Gupta’s interview to various media organisations purportedly siding with the police action immediately after the July 10 encounter killing of Dubey while he was being brought by Special Task Force personnel from Ujjain to Kanpur. They said the bias emerging from Gupta’s alleged statements, unabashedly justifying the police action, would influence the commission’s work and rob it of public trust. But solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the UP government, told the court that it was unfortunate that the petitioners chose to project only half the picture before the court by citing select portions of his interview. The bench, which was initially sceptical of the ex-DGP’s statement as read out by the petitioners, was unhappy with the two advocates for presenting a one-sided picture before the court. After the SG showed the transcript of the full interview to the court, the CJI said, “What is not upright about Gupta? He has also said that the guilty will be punished after an inquiry. The man has taken a balanced view. Also, there is a former Supreme Court judge and an ex-high court judge in the commission. How can the commission’s findings be vitiated?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-refuses-to-tinker-with-vikas-dubey-panel/articleshow/77231424.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
July 29, 2020||Kochi||KUHS offers service of 3,000 docs, 4,000 nurses||Thrissur: Kerala University of Health Sciences (KUHS) has submitted a list of about 3,000 doctors and 4,000 nurses to the government, who have just completed their graduation, to support the government’s programme to build up a second line of Covid-19 care team. This pool of resource persons will certainly be a boon to the state, which is staring at the shortage of manpower to treat the rising number of Covid-19 patients, according to health experts. The university has also requested the private medical colleges to set up at least one Covid-19 treatment centre under them by deploying their faculties and PG students. KUHS vice-chancellor Dr Mohan Kunnummal said the list of the fresh graduates were submitted as per the suggestion from the government. “We have suggested to the government that these fresh graduates can be incentivized to work in the Covid treatment centres if they are provided proper accommodation and quarantine facilities. Also, most of them are in the process of preparing for higher studies. So, it will be helpful if they can be given some grace marks for the PG entrance examination. The government has responded positively to our suggestions,” Kunnummal said. The VC has written an open letter to all the fresh graduates appealing them to support the government’s efforts to combat Covid-19. In his letter to them, Dr Kunnummal said they “will be appointed shortly with reasonable salary, and all facilities will be provided for your safe stay. The safety of your families will also be given due consideration”. “You are graduating at a very critical time in the history of mankind, when the Covid-19 pandemic is threatening the very existence of the human race. We all decided to become health professionals with a commitment to help our fellow citizens. This is the time to demonstrate our commitment to our brothers and sisters,” he said in the letter. Dr Kunnummal said he had held a webinar with the principals of the private medical colleges on Tuesday and suggested they start Covid treatment centres either in the hospitals attached to them or in another facility. “They have also promised to implement this suggestion,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kuhs-offers-service-of-3000-docs-4000-nurses/articleshow/77227674.cms||T Ramavarman
July 29, 2020||Dehradun||Heavy rainfall wreaks havoc: Two women killed in house collapse, another missing||Dehradun/Pithoragarh: A woman died and her minor daughter sustained serious injuries in Chamoli while another woman from a Pithoragarh village got killed due to rain related accidents in the two districts of Uttarakhand late on Monday night. Meanwhile, another woman, from Pithoragarh’s Jarajibli village, went missing. The regional meteorological centre, on Tuesday, issued a red alert of heavy-to-very heavy rainfall, especially in the districts of Kumaon region, while the Garhwal region too is expected to witness heavy rainfall. “Isolated places in Pithoragarh, Udham Singh Nagar, and Nainital districts might receive spells of extremely heavy rainfall as well,” said Bikram Singh, director of Met office. In the first accident, a house collapsed in Padergaon village of Chamoli district following a cloudburst triggered by downpour. A woman reportedly died in the accident while her minor daughter sustained injuries. The deceased was identified as Deveshwari Devi, while her minor daughter, Preeta, 12, has been admitted in the hospital, according to district authorities. “The accident occurred late on Monday night. The SDRF team is at the spot and the rescue operation is underway. We are also trying to find out if someone else or any cattle got hurt in the accident,” said an SDRF official. In Pithoragarh, a woman, identified as Radha Devi, died after getting trapped under the debris. Her house in the district's Maitali village collapsed after heavy rainfall. Bhupendar Singh Mahar, district disaster management officer, told TOI that her body has been recovered. In yet another accident in the district, a woman from Jarajibli village of Pithoragarh, reportedly went missing. Search operation is underway to trace her. Damages to public property were also reported from several villages of the district. On Monday night, Munsyari and Dharchula received 24 mm and 179 mm rainfall respectively. The rain spell blocked many internal roads in Lumti, Jarajibli, Mori, Galati, Bangapani, Baram, Chhori Bagar, Banabagar, and Galati villages. In Jauljibi, the Kali river has swollen above the danger level, posing threat to locals. Besides, over a dozen villages got disconnected from district headquarters after an important bridge connecting Munsyari with Jauljabi was washed away in Bangapani tehsil of Pithoragarh district. “Police and rescue teams are facing problems in reaching the affected villages due to landslides and road blocks,” Mahar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/heavy-rainfall-wreaks-havoc-two-women-killed-in-house-collapse-another-missing/articleshow/77226040.cms||Gaurav Talwar
July 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: FIR filed for illegal drug import from Bangladesh||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad crime branch lodged an FIR on Tuesday against six persons of an Ahmedabad pharma company, Nilkanth Elixir, for bringing in remdesivir from Bangladesh without an import licence. The persons booked are Vaishasli Goyani, Darshan Soni, Shekar Adroja, Path Goyani, Sandeep Mathukiya and his nephew Yash Mathukiya. The medicine is given to critical Covid-19 patients. According to crime branch officials, the accused acquired remdesivir for Rs 5,000 per injection and sold it for Rs 18,000 in Surat and Ahmedabad. According to crime branch officials, Yash Mathukiya would send the injections from Bangladesh through a company called Incepta Pharmaceuticals to Kolkata. From West Bengal, the injections were brought to Ahmedabad and supplied to several medical stores. A top crime branch official said the first batch of injections were shipped to Ahmedabad on July 7. The second batch arrived on July 12. “The injections were brought to Gujarat without bills,” said a crime branch official. “The injections were stored at a building in Makarba. During a search on Tuesday, 98 injections were recovered from the spot and they have been sent to a lab in Vadodara for analysis.” Crime branch officials said the scam came to light when Gujarat’s Food and Drugs Control Administration found two such injections from Yash Mathukiya’s place in Surat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fir-filed-for-illegal-drug-import/articleshow/77229019.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan HC to hear BJP MLA’s pleas on BSP-Congress merger today||JAIPUR: BJP MLA Madan Dilawar filed two fresh petitions before the Rajasthan high court challenging the BSP-Congress merger on Tuesday. Both the petitions were listed for hearing before the single bench of Justice Mahendar Kumar Goyal on Wednesday. The first petition challenges speaker CP Joshi’s decision on the BJP MLA’s complaint against the merger, while the second petition challenges the BSP-Congress merger as violation of Constitution’s Schedule X. “The speaker rejected my complaint citing a technical lacuna, which is laughable. He said the copy of the speaker's decision allowing the merger that I attached with my complaint was not attested,” Dilawar told TOI. “The complaint filed in March was rejected in July on a flimsy ground even though the Supreme Court rulings say that small mistakes can be overlooked,” the BJP MLA said, adding that the speaker did not go into the merit of the matter. “The speaker rejected my complaint without giving me the opportunity to be heard. Even to get the copy of his decision I had to sit on dharna (on Monday),” Dilawar said. Six BSP MLAs—Sandeep Yadav (Tijara), Wajib Ali (Nagar), Joginder Singh Avana (Nadbai), Deepchand Kheria (Kishangarh Bas), Lakhan Singh Meena (Karauli) and Rajendra Gudha (Udaipurwati)—into Congress with approval from the speaker in September last year. The BJP MLA’s lawyer Ashish Sharma said, “We have challenged the merger on legal grounds, which include violation of the constitution's Schedule X.” The petition has prayed for disqualification of six MLAs saying that they voluntarily gave up BSP membership by seeking merger into the Congress. “As per Para (4) of Schedule X, the condition of two-third numbers to accept a merger is second condition, but the first condition is that the original party of the legislators seeking merger should have merged into the other political party. Even if all MLAs of a party decide, the merger cannot be legal until the original party decides to merge. In this case, the MLAs never claimed the BSP merged into Congress but sought only their merger into Congress,” the petition says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-to-hear-bjp-mlas-pleas-on-bsp-cong-merger-today/articleshow/77230060.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Dehradun||Help pours in for disabled cricketer forced to work as labourer||Pithoragarh: Covid turned his life upside down. Yet, he refused to accept defeat, like in every match he has played. Now, seeing his grit and sheer determination, several government organisations and individuals have come forward to support the former captain of Indian wheelchair cricket team, Rajendra Singh Dhami, who was forced to take up the job of a daily wage labourer to feed his family amid the pandemic. In just two days, Dhami has received around Rs 70,000 while people across cities too have promised financial assistance. On Tuesday, a team of Pithoragarh district administration visited his house and handed over a cheque of Rs 20,000 as an immediate assistance. TOI had in its columns on Monday published how 90% disabled Dhami, who holds a postgraduate degree and has won numerous awards in the cricketing field, was forced to take up the job of a daily wage labourer under the employment guarantee scheme after his income as a coach dried up due to the pandemic. Both state and district authorities took cognisance of the report and have promised aid to the disabled cricketer. Based on the directions of Pithoragarh district magistrate VK Jogdande, district sports officer Sanjeev Pauri and general manager of district industries centre Kavita Bhagat visited Dhami at his residence in Raikot village and handed over a cheque of Rs 20,000 under the aegis of the district sports committee. The DM is the chairman of the committee. Bhagat said that they have offered assistance to him under the chief minister self-employment scheme too, an initiative meant to help people returning to the state due to the pandemic. She added that he has expressed interest in rearing goats and further steps would be taken for the same after processing his application. Meanwhile, Uttarakhand Olympic Association general secretary DK Singh said that the committee would give Rs 50,000 to Dhami. TOI has learned that individuals from Delhi, Dehradun and Pithoragarh among others have also promised financial assistance to the cricketer. Expressing happiness, Dhami said, “I am grateful and indebted to all those who have helped me. I spoke to DM Jogdande over the phone and he has promised me employment. That is a big relief.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/help-pours-in-for-disabled-cricketer-forced-to-work-as-labourer/articleshow/77226034.cms||Prem Punetha
July 29, 2020||Dehradun||Intrastate chopper service to start under RCS-UDAN scheme||Dehradun: The first-ever intrastate helicopter service under the Regional Connectivity Scheme of Ude Desh Ka Aam Nagrik (RCS-UDAN) will kick off from July 29 in Uttarakhand. The first RCS helicopter flight will be flagged off virtually jointly by minister of civil aviation Hardeep Singh Puri and Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat. According to officials, Pawan Hans Limited will run chopper services from Dehradun to New Tehri, from Dehradun to Srinagar in Pauri district, and from Dehradun to Gauchar in Chamoli district thrice a week — Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. According to DK Gautam, director of Dehradun's Jolly Grant Airport, “Introduction of chopper service operations under RCS-UDAN is going to give a tremendous boost to the connectivity to remote areas within the state and promote tourism at affordable cost.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/intrastate-chopper-service-to-start-under-rcs-udan-scheme/articleshow/77226025.cms||Gaurav Talwar
July 29, 2020||Jaipur||Rebel MLA moves HC with petition to cancel SOG FIR||JAIPUR: Congress rebel MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma has approached the high court seeking to quash the FIR filed by the SOG or the investigation be handed over to the NIA in the alleged horse-trading case. Sharma had made the state government and the investigating officer of the case and the central government a party to the petition. Sharma, who has been suspended from the party, is one of the 19 MLAs now camping in Haryana’s Manesar seeking a change of leadership of chief minister Ashok Gehlot. The ruling Congress had released audio tapes in which Sharma was heard purportedly talking to middleman Sanjay Jain and Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat about plans to topple the Gehlot government by horse-trading of MLAs. Following the release of the video, Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi had approached the SOG seeking an investigation of the alleged conspiracy. SOG has filed two FIRs in the case on the basis of the audio tapes under a section dealing with for sedition and criminal conspiracy. Jain has been arrested in this case while SOG has issued a notice to Union minister Shekhawat and Sharma. Though the SOG has been looking for Sharma, the MLA has so far managed to evade arrest. Speaker C P Joshi had also issued notice to them for alleged violation of the party whip for not being present in the Congress Legislature Party meeting convened on July 13 and 14 on a complaint by Joshi, which is now pending in the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rebel-mla-moves-hc-with-petition-to-cancel-sog-fir/articleshow/77230057.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Kolkata||If Covid scene improves, education institutes may open on September 5: Mamata Banerjee||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said if the Covid situation in Bengal improved in August, the education department might consider Teacher’s Day on September 5 to reopen educational institutions that have been shut since March. Announcing the tentative timeline with caution, Banerjee said, “If the situation permits, we are thinking about resuming classes from September. We have a date in mind: 5th September. It is the birth anniversary of (Sarvepalli) Radhakrishnan and we might resume classes on that date. Then we can continue till the Pujas on alternate days but everything depends on the situation.” The ministry of human resource development had on July 17 asked state governments to provide them with a feedback from school students’ parents about when would they be comfortable with schools reopening: August, September or October. Banerjee reiterated no exams could be held in colleges now and that the earlier UGC advisory to appraise students on their earlier semesters should be followed. “We need to think about students,” she said. Responding to the possibility of schools reopening in September, Ram Mohan Mission School principal Sujoy Biswas said the seating arrangements would have to be re-organised to ensure social distancing. “An orientation programme will have to be held, where students will be asked to carry sanitizers and two sets of napkins and face masks that can be changed. There will be disposable cups at water dispensers. Students will not be allowed to share tiffin or stationery. Someone will regulate students’ entry to toilets,” he said. Some parents felt it was too early to consider reopening schools and such a call could be taken only after cases in the state plateaued and the infection curve began to dip. Others, however, recognised the disadvantage many students faced now, particularly those who could not access online classes. Class-XI admissions for state board schools will be on as per the earlier schedule. “Schools should start admission of their own students from August 1 and end it by August 10. Admissions from other schools should start from August 11 and end by August 31. Only guardians can attend the process with documents,” said a Madhyamik Parshad official. Colleges and universities, too, may reopen on September 5 if schools do. But Jadavpur University Teachers’ Association general secretary Partha Pratim Ray said it was too early to set a date. He said the state needed to normalize public transport system, including trains. “Hostels have to open. Once these aspects are resolved, date to begin classroom interactions can be announced,” he said. Gautam Maity, general secretary of All Bengal University Teachers Association, said the higher education department should withdraw August 10 as the UG admission deadline. “Not all can access internet. Many won’t be able to apply online,” he said. But state university VC indicated they would go ahead with the directive. “The admissions system is online. There is no trouble in publishing merit list and admission,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/if-covid-scene-improves-education-institutes-may-open-on-sept-5-cm/articleshow/77229013.cms||Somdatta Basu
July 29, 2020||Nagpur||HC grants anticipatory bail to Gantawar couple||Nagpur: Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Wednesday granted anticipatory bail to Gantawar couple, who are under the scanner over alleged disproportionate assets. Earlier, their interim bail was rejected by the sessions court on July 22. Dr Praveen Gantawar, working as additional medical officer with Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and his wife Dr Sheelu, moved HC apprehending arrest in the case registered against them at Sitabuldi police station under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. While allowing their application for interim bail, justice Vinay Joshi directed them to furnish a PR bond amounting to Rs25,000 with sureties of a similar amount and also to meet officials of the investigation agency every Monday and Thursday between 3 and 5pm. They were told not to move outside NMC limits and also to give their passports to the agency. They were warned against any inducement, threat or promise to any person acquainted with the facts of the case. Through counsel Prasad Abhyankar the duo contended that the ACB officers had wrongly calculated their income and expenditure and by manipulating figures, a false case of disproportionate assets was lodged. They argued that the auditor’s report has been partially accepted to suit the purpose of FIR. The ACB had alleged that the doctor couple accumulated disproportionate assets amounting to Rs2.52 crore which is 43.06% more than their legal/known sources of income.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-gantawar-couple/articleshow/77228797.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Extend deadline for FSSAI licence’||Ahmedabad: In the wake of the pandemic and the uncertain situation in the days to come, traders have sought to extend the deadline for obtaining licence for FSSAI till December 31, this year. A representation regarding this was made by Gujarat Traders’ Federation (GTF), before the CEO of Food Safety and Standards Authorities of India (FSSAI). “The country is still reeling under a pandemic-like situation caused due to Covid-19 and several districts are under lockdown or restrictive working hours. Moreover, the renewal of FSSAI licence involves submitting of documents personally to the local authorities. Since authorities are busy managing Covid-19 related affairs, not many are readily available to give due attention to traders,” mentions the representation. “Some traders who approached local authorised officials for renewal are being harassed and denied due attention,” the representation further mentions. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/extend-deadline-for-fssai-licence/articleshow/77229050.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Vadodara||Dahod CDHO diagnosed with Covid-19||Vadodara: In-charge chief district health officer (CDHO) of Dahod district Dr R D Pahadiya was diagnosed with Covid-19 on Tuesday. He is amongst the 38 new cases registered in the district on Tuesday. A rapid Covid-19 test conducted on Pahadiya had indicated that he was infected. Officials said that nasopharyngeal swabs were subsequently collected to conduct RT-PCR tests. The reports of the test came in on Tuesday and confirmed the fears. Since Monday itself the doctor who had been at the forefront of the war against Covid-19 in Dahod had isolated himself at his residence. Earlier, four members of the person whose house Pahadiya had rented had tested positive. These included the landlord himself. The 38 new cases registered on Tuesday include around 25 from the Dahod town and surrounding areas. The total number of cases in the district so far has gone up to 492.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/dahod-cdho-diagnosed-with-covid-19/articleshow/77227490.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Nagpur||HC again rejects Saibaba’s bail plea||Nagpur: For a second time, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Wednesday rejected bail application of Naxal ideologue GN Saibaba. Earlier, it was rejected on March 25 last year. The bench, however, directed jail officials to expeditiously consider his new application for parole filed on June 16 on merits. The wheelchair bound Delhi University professor applied for bail apprehending he may get infected with the coronavirus that hundreds of inmates and jail officials contracted inside the jail. Through counsel Nihalsingh Rathod, he also cited his deteriorating health and his mother’s cancer due to which she needs him in Hyderabad. The petition was strongly opposed by Gadchiroli police through special public prosecutor Prashant Sathianathan contending that since the petitioner was lodged in the Anda Cell, there’s hardly any chance of getting infected from deadly virus. Moreover, his application for parole to meet his mother on the same grounds was rejected recently. Quoting the jail’s chief medical officer (CMO), a division bench of Justices Atul Chandurkar and Amit Borkar stated that appropriate medical aid was being provided to Saibaba. “From CMO’s reply, it is clear that all precautions are being taken to stop Covid-19 spread inside prison. The petitioner has been kept in a separate high security cell where inmates aren’t permitted to interact with others. It is also found he was tested for Covid-19 and report was negative. Moreover, only staff testing negative are kept on duty.” Adding that there was no reason to disbelieve CMO’s report, the judges said though Saibaba suffered from various ailments, they did not find any ground to release him on bail due to pandemic. “Regarding his worsening medical condition, we find that except for narrating his ailments, no further details are given. While arriving at this conclusion, we have kept in mind the nature of accusations against him, his conviction by Gadchiroli sessions court and rejection of his application for suspension of sentence by HC earlier,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-again-rejects-saibabas-bail-plea/articleshow/77228745.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 29, 2020||Nagpur||Cantonment hospital in Kamptee awaits Covid-19 testing kits||Nagpur: After a woman staffer, two more persons living in the military engineering services (MES) quarters in Kamptee cantonment tested Covid positive on Monday. These include a staffer and his wife. They have been sent to the Covid care centre at Waregaon near Kamptee.Sources said samples of another 15-20 persons living in the quarters have been sent for tests. Apart from it, close to 20 army personnel were also undergoing treatment at the military hospital by last week, with close to an equal number already cured.The person who tested positive said that initially his wife had a fever and was taken to a private hospital at Kamptee. The doctor asked them to get a Covid test done if they had a doubt. “We straightaway went for the tests and were found positive,” he said.The cantonment area has a military hospital for the uniformed personnel and a cantonment hospital for others residing in the area. However, till Tuesday, no medical kits were available at the hospitals. There were demands from the civilian residents of the cantonment for providing the kits.Arvind Hingne, the tehsildar for Kamptee, said that a demand of 4,000 kits had been put up as the equipment was to be supplied to private doctors too. When TOI called up the officer at around 4pm, he said the kits are expected to be delivered on Tuesday and were awaited.Kamptee has two more government hospitals outside the cantonment where both rapid antigen and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RTPCR) tests are conducted. Currently, any civilian suspected to have Covid has to approach any of the two centres outside the cantonment“The cantonment has a population of around 4,000 civilians alone, apart from defence personnel. Earlier, there were issues over getting the tests done in the hospitals outside. Some of the patients said that the hospital in the town did not cover the cantonment residents, though the issue was sorted out later,” said a resident.Going out of the cantonment is also a hassle as clearance from the doctors has to be taken for such cases. In the normal course, the movement is only allowed during Mondays and Thursdays, the resident said.“The army has a military hospital of 57-bed facility and there is not Covid testing facility. The samples taken are sent to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) for testing,” said defence spokesperson Wing Commander Basant Kumar Pande.TOWN ON TENTERHOOKS* 4,000 kits have been demanded for Kamptee* Cantonment hospital will be getting the kits from this lot* Supply will be made to private doctors too* Testing done in two hospitals out of cantt area now* 15-20 MES staffers living the quarters have been tested||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cantonment-hospital-in-kamptee-awaits-covid-19-testing-kits/articleshow/77228629.cms||Shishir Arya
July 29, 2020||Nagpur||Eid for Bohras to be a low-key affair on Thu||Nagpur: The Dawoodi Bohra sect would be celebrating Eid-UL-Azha on Thursday without any congregational prayers. Shabab and Jamaat member Sheikh Malik Aster Fidvi said given the pandemic situation, prayers and all other celebrations would be held at individual homes. The religious head has advised community members to perform the religious duty at their homes in case they wish to do so. The soft copies of prayer guidelines have been circulated with all members, Fidvi said. He said members have also been asked to keep the entire celebration low key. Some members said they don't wish to indulge in any type of celebration due to the pandemic. Fidvi said the sentiments were not high because of Covid situation across the country. “The Jamaat Khana are already closed as per government guidelines and we had been praying like all others at home only. But members have been asked to take a call in case there is any new development like a janata curfew or lockdown,” he said. Eid ul Azha of others Muslims would be on August 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/eid-for-bohras-to-be-a-low-key-affair-on-thu/articleshow/77228846.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Many MLAs don’t want to head boards, corporations||BENGALURU: A day after chief minister BS Yediyurappa appointed 24 MLAs heads of various boards and corporations, at least nine legislators have reportedly expressed reservations in accepting the offer. While MLAs GH Thippareddy, MP Kumaraswamy and Preetham Gowda have openly said they will not accept their new responsibility, MLAs Narasimha Nayak, Rajkumar Patil Telkur, Siddu Savadi, Nehru Olekar, Kalakappa Bandi and SS Patil Nadahalli have reportedly expressed displeasure over being appointed to boards and corporations. Though a majority of them said they preferred development of their constituencies instead of helming boards and corporations, the real reason is the realisation that they stand no chance to become ministers if they accept the present offer as most of them are eyeing cabinet berths. Many also see these appointments as beneath their status. “Why do I need such a big post. Let the chief minister appoint someone else. I don’t have any ambition to move around in a government vehicle. I am happy if the CM gives more funds to my constituency,” said Kumaraswamy who has been appointed chairman of Karnataka Marketing Consultants and Agencies Limited. A three-time MLA from Mudigere, Kumaraswamy has boycotted the first cabinet expansion in protest. Thippareddy, who has been very vocal about his ambition to become minister, has outrightly rejected his appointment as chairman of the D Devaraj Urs Backward Classes Development Corporation. He has reportedly told the CM that he would prefer to remain an MLA rather than accepting anything less than a cabinet berth. Preetham Gowda said he was not mentally prepared to accept the offer as he wants to focus on development of his constituency. “Yediyurappa has given me full freedom as far as Hassan district administration is concerned. I am like the CM of Hassan now and I want to continue like this,” he added. Narasimha Nayak, who’s also lobbying for a cabinet berth, said he will meet Yediyurappa before taking a call on accepting his appointment as chairman of Karnataka State Urban Water Supply and Drainage Board. Dattatreya Patil, another ministerial berth aspirant, said he would accept whatever responsibility the party gives him. He has been appointed chairman of Kalyana Karnataka Area Development Board. Though none of the MLAs who rejected the appointments has shown any sign of rebellion, their decision will definitely make things more difficult for the CM and the BJP when they decide to finalise names for cabinet expansion. Yediyurappa is expected to expand the cabinet in the first week of August to fill six vacant berths, for which there are over a dozen aspirants, including senior most MLA Umesh Katti. There are rumours that he may even go for a cabinet rejig by dropping some ministers to make way for fresh faces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/many-mlas-dont-want-to-head-boards-corporations/articleshow/77228306.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Jaipur||DGP to write again to Haryana, Delhi top cops||JAIPUR: DGP Bhupendra Singh is likely to again write to his Haryana counterpart and Delhi Police commissioner to support the SOG team camping in Manesar to locate suspended MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma. The SOG has also replaced its team to keep up the pressure on the MLA whose name had cropped up in alleged attempts to topple the government. Singh said, “As the SOG investigation progresses, I will write to DGP Haryana and Delhi Police commissioner again requesting assistance to our team there which is probing the matter.” On July 18, Singh had written to the top cops requesting the same though there was no response, sources have said. On Tuesday, the SOG recorded the statement of one of the witnesses, Tanveer Singh, who was sent a notice on July 22. He was a witness of the discussion between Ashok Singh and Bharat Malani who were arrested for talking about horse-trading of MLAs. Their mobile phones were put on surveillance on June 13 after the SOG learnt from a source that the duo might be linked to a mafia dealing in arms and explosives. Police officers investigating the case heard the duo’s conversations on politics and after gathering information for nearly a month lodged the FIR on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dgp-to-write-again-to-haryana-delhi-top-cops/articleshow/77230064.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||PIL wants use of loudspeakers for azaan banned at mosques in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: A Gandhinagar-based doctor has filed a PIL in the Gujarat high court seeking a ban on use of loudspeakers for the azaan (call to prayer) at mosques across Gujarat contending that it creates noise pollution and violates the fundamental rights of citizens. Dharmendra Prajapati, a resident of Sector 5C in Gandhinagar, complained that even though not many persons turn up to pray at the mosque in his neighbourhood, the muezzin uses a loudspeaker five times a day to recite the azaan. This causes great inconvenience and disturbance to the people living nearby. He contended that people have a right to peace and tranquility. Basing the arguments on the Allahabad high court’s order with regard to denial of permission recite the azaan on loudspeakers against the local authorities’ decision during the lockdown, the petitioner stated that he complained about this to the local authority but to no effect. The PIL contends that the sound from the loudspeaker is very loud and is unbearable. Such noise pollution “causes severe mental illness, physical problems to aged persons and small children and it also affects the work efficiency of the public at large. In short, it is not good for health”. Citing legal provisions, the PIL claims that use of loudspeaker without permission from local authorities violates the law. “There is no valid written permission obtained by the persons of Muslim community while using loudspeaker while offering prayers,” the PIL reads. It also cited an order by the Supreme Court to assert that no religion prescribes that prayers should be performed by disturbing the peace of others nor does it preach that they should be through voice amplifiers or beating of drums. The petitioner further claimed that use of loudspeakers is not an integral part of Islam because in the olden days when the technology did not exist, the azaan was recited and namaz used to be offered regularly in mosques. Muslims cannot explain why namaz cannot take place without the azaan through a loudspeaker. The petitioner further argued that the use of the loudspeaker five times a day disturbs people’s sleep and students’ education. “Sleep is a fundamental and basic requirement without which the existence of life itself would be in peril. To disturb sleep, therefore, would amount to torture which is not accepted as a violation of human right,” the PIL says. The PIL is likely to come up for hearing later this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pil-wants-use-of-loudspeakers-for-azaan-banned-at-mosques/articleshow/77229060.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Kolkata||Footballer arrested with stolen bike||KOLKATA: A city footballer was arrested with a stolen bike from Rajpur on Sunday. The accused, Sahidul Sardar (22), plays for a prominent city soccer club. He has also played in the I-league tournament. When he entered Kolkata’s football circuit as a teenager, he initially played for a club’s under-19 team. After he was arrested and the stolen bike was recovered, cops said a cross-border racket has been unearthed. Two from in the racket, Mohidul Laskar and Anarul Molla, were also arrested. Sonarpur IC Sanjib Chakraborty understood that a racket was behind the thefts after the stolen bike was traced and recovered from a point near the Rajpur electricity office. Another stolen bike bike was recovered by the cops from the same spot on July 16. During interrogation, Sardar told cops that he has an equally expensive bike but chose to buy a second one since he was getting it at a cheap rate. He also confessed to sleuths that he was aware the bike was a stolen one. He told cops that Laskar had sold him the bike. Police got to know that Laskar is a member of a gang, which is involved in smuggling stolen bikes to other states as well as Bangladesh. Police zeroed in on Laskar, who revealed Molla’s name during interrogation. Both Laskar and Molla were arrested.Baruipur SP Rasidmunir Khan said: “We have already arrested three suspects. Raids are on to nab more people involved in the racket.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/footballer-arrested-with-stolen-bike/articleshow/77229043.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
July 29, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun’s tap water fails to meet standards, not safe to drink||Dehradun: A recently-released survey report has revealed that the tap water supplied in several localities of Dehradun district do not meet the safety standards and is unfit for consumption. The survey, conducted by Dehradun-based Society of Pollution and Environmental Conservation Scientists (SPECS), tested water samples of 125 localities across the Dehradun district between June 10, 2020 and July 10, 2020. The report says that the tap water supplied in 65% of the 125 surveyed localities across the Dehradun district has the presence of fecal coliform which is a major contributor in causing stomach diseases. The study also highlights that the amount of absorbed chlorine in the tap water was below the prescribed level in several localities. This can cause skin diseases, the report points out. Dr Brij Mohan Sharma from SPECS told TOI, “The water contamination levels in these localities are alarming. The presence of fecal coliform indicates that people are consuming water which has the presence of waste from underground sewage. If the people continue to consume such poor quality water for a long time, it can result in severe illness as well.” The study has further revealed that the tap water supplied in certain areas — including Rajpur, Johri village, Doon Vihar, Malsi, Vijaypur Road, DL Road, and Niranjanpur — have a high presence of hard water contents. Notably, hard water is also responsible for causing problems like hair loss, skin dryness, among others. In more than 36 localities from where the water samples were collected, the absorbed chlorine levels were found to be below the prescribed norms. “If contaminated water is consumed regularly, one may become prone to Gastroenteritis, flu, diarrhoea, chronic fever, cough, sleep disorders, malaria, and dengue. A large number of poisonous substances enter our body through contaminated water affecting our health adversely. These poisonous substances in water prominently include cadmium, lead, mercury, arsenic and nickel added,” Dr Sharma. The residents too have expressed their concern over the poor water quality of tap water being supplied in Dehradun. Vijay Kothiyal, a resident of Tilak Road area, said, “We are paying water tax to the government for providing us safe drinking water but what we are getting is not at all fit for drinking.” Another resident from the Mobbeywala area, Imran Hasan, said, “We often get tap water which looks murkier and also has a foul smell. We have to clean it several times before consuming it.” Meanwhile, Yashbir Mal, executive engineer at Jal Sansthan, said “We carry out tests to check the water quality at regular intervals and tests are conducted at our specialised lab. We cannot verify the quality of the tests conducted by any other organisation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dehraduns-tap-water-fails-to-meet-standards-not-safe-to-drink/articleshow/77226054.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Nagpur||CBSE to give schools leeway for affiliation extension||Nagpur: CBSE has decided to extend affiliation of applicant schools without waiting for the physical inspection report due to various restrictions in travel and school reopening currently in place. Schools need the affiliation extension to be processed quickly as other formalities like admissions etc depend on it.The board’s secretary Anurag Tripathi in a circular issued earlier this month confirmed that this step was being taken due to the current pandemic. Tripathi wrote, “It is observed that the inspection of schools that had applied for extension has been held up due to the current Covid-19 situation in which schools are not functional. However, schools are pressing hard for extension of affiliation as they have to take further approval from the state education department/other govt authorities to ensure normal functioning”.The central board has classified such applicant schools into two categories. First are those where the physical inspection is due, and second, those whose inspection is done but final report by committee members is pending. With no inspection being done now, CBSE will extend affiliation based on inputs submitted online by the school. Tripathi clarified that the onus will be on schools to ensure that only facts are presented.Schools that have received letters citing deficiencies noticed during inspection have to comply before the extension is granted. Tripathi wrote, “Cases where the inspection committee is constituted shall be required to submit compliance against deficiencies communicated”. While it’s expected that the compliance by schools and the ensuing affiliation inspection will be in good faith, CBSE has warned against misrepresentation of facts. “The onus of genuineness of the data/ documents/ information provided by the schools shall be of the school for all purposes” wrote Tripathi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cbse-to-give-schools-leeway-for-affiliation-extension/articleshow/77228721.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 29, 2020||Trichy||Special SI under treatment dies||Trichy: A 57-year-old special sub inspector (SSI) attached to Ariyamangalam police in Trichy city died on Tuesday at a private hospital where he was undergoing treatment for breathing difficulties. Trichy city police accorded full police honours with 30 gun salute to his funeral. SSI C Sannasi, 57, a native of Seerathoppu, is survived by his wife and three sons. He was residing at Thirupparaithurai in Trichy on Karur Road. Down with fever and breathing difficulties, he was admitted to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) 15 days ago, said commissioner of police, Trichy city, J Loganathan. But later, he was shifted to the private hospital. “Covid-19 tests during his treatment and after his death showed negative results,” CoP told ToI. Police officials said that Sannasi was involved in patrol duty during the pandemic. The dead body with all safety precautions was brought to Oyamaari crematorium. CoP Loganathan and police officials attended the funeral. He was honoured with 30 gun salute before cremation. CoP said that as of now, 47 police personnel attached to Trichy city police were infected with Covid-19 and 42 of them recovered. The city police have been following the system of compulsory home quarantine for a week after duty for one week. “While 425 personnel are in home quarantine, 1,200 police personnel are on duty in three shifts,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/special-si-under-treatment-dies/articleshow/77230077.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Dehradun||BJP issues show cause notice to MLA Karanwal||Dehradun: The state general secretary of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Kuldeep Kumar has issued a show-cause notice to Desraj Karanwal, party’s MLA from Jhabrera constituency in Haridwar district for anti-party activities. The MLA has been asked to submit his reply in 15 days otherwise the party will take disciplinary action against him. According to party sources, the notice to Karanwal has been issued on the direction of the party state president Bansidhar Bhagat who has taken cognisance of MLA’s misbehaviours with party workers. “The MLA is accused of abusive behaviour and bad treatment with party workers and promoting personal activities, which are not in the line with party’s morals,” said party spokesperson Devendra Bhasin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bjp-issues-show-cause-notice-to-mla-karanwal/articleshow/77226066.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Remove curbs on spunbond exports’||Ahmedabad: The Non-woven Federation of India (NFWI) on Tuesday demanded removal of all restrictions on exports of spunbond non-woven fabric as the curbs are hurting the domestic industry. After having banned exports of textile raw materials used to make surgical, disposable masks and coveralls in March, the directorate general of foreign trade (DGFT) allowed export of non-woven fabric on July 13. However, the curbs on exports of non-woven fabric with density of 25-70GSM (gram per square meter) were continued allegedly on concerns of availability of this fabric for manufacturing masks and personal protective equipment (PPE). “Majority of demand in export market pertain to spunbond non-woven fabric of 25-70GSM and restrictions on its exports is hurting domestic industry,” said Suresh Patel, president, NWFI. Spunbond non-woven fabric is manufactured from fibre grade plypropalene granules using spun-bond technology. The fabric is used for making surgical/isolation gowns, drapes, facemasks, shoe covers and caps. Allaying fears about the availability of this fabric for masks and PPEs, Anshumali Jain, vice-president, NWFI, said, “Out of 41,350 metric tonnes (MT) of total monthly production capacity, only 5,221 MT or 13% is used for medical application, which also includes making PPE kit, 3-ply masks and N95 masks. There is surplus capacity availability in India.” “These figures show that the country is self-sufficient in spunbond nonwoven fabric. Hence, the restrictions on its export do not make any practical sense,” he added. According to NWFI general secretary Nikesh Shah, the curbs on exports and surplus supply in domestic market has led to reduction in manufacturers’ capacity utilisation to 30% currently, which was around 90% before the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/remove-curbs-on-spunbond-exports/articleshow/77229055.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Dehradun||259 fresh Covid-19 cases, 4 deaths reported in U’khand||Dehradun: Uttarakhand reported four deaths of Covid-19 patients, including a 50-year-old SSB Jawan, on Tuesday, taking the toll of the virus in the state to 70. Also, with 259 fresh cases reported on the day, the total cases of the virus reached 6,587 in the Himalyan state. According to the health department, AIIMS Rishikesh reported the death of an 80-year-old man who died due to refractory septic shock and Covid-19. The patient was referred to AIIMS-R from Haridwar district hospital. “Three patients of coronavirus infection died at Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College on Tuesday. Among these, one patient was 50-year-old and the other one was a 57-year-old. In each case, the cause of death was co-morbid illness and Covid-19,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 war room of the health department. Acting Chief Medical officer of Pithoragarh informed that a 50-year-old SSB Jawan, who had tested positive for the virus earlier last week, died while he was being moved to a higher center in Haldwani. “The health department might have considered the death in Haldwani but the jawan was from Pithoragarh,” added Pant. Meanwhile, with rising cases of deaths at Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical college, Haldwani district magistrate Savin Bansal ordered the chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Bhagirathi Joshi to conduct the death audit of last eight patients, who died at the medical college in last 40 days. The CMO has been directed to present the report in seven days. According to the administration, the decision was taken as there were complaints regarding mismanagement at the medical college by patients. There are also allegations that the hospital is not admitting the patients in ICU, even in urgent cases. Meanwhile, among the 259 new cases, Udham Singh Nagar alone reported 108 fresh cases on Tuesday. Nainital reported 45 new cases, followed by 42 cases in Haridwar, and 33 in Dehradun. Among the hill districts, Tehri reported 13 fresh cases, followed by 10 new cases from Almora. Five new cases were reported from Champawat, two from Chamoli, and one from Bageshwar. In some good news for the state, AIIMS Rishikesh on Tuesday became the first government medical college in the country to have a space for the landing of a helicopter with the successful landing of an air ambulance at its newly constructed airstrip. Congratulating the team of the hospital and department concerned on this achievement, AIIMS Rishikesh director Professor Ravikant said that this will help patients from interior areas and hills to get the best possible healthcare services, that too on time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/259-fresh-covid-19-cases-4-deaths-reported-in-ukhand/articleshow/77226078.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 29, 2020||Kolkata||Pond-like craters turn Belgharia Expressway into a death trap||KOLKATA: Massive potholes on a nearly 600m stretch of the Dunlop underpass on the Dakshineswar-bound flank of Belgharia Expressway have virtually turned the subway into a death trap for motorists and bikers, with multiple accidents being reported from there. At Baranagar’s Niranjan Sen Nagar bus stand, close to the CCR Bridge-Belgharia Expressway intersection and barely 1.5km from Dunlop crossing, there is a crater as big as a pond. Subal Saha, owner of a nearby tea stall, claimed the crater was at least two-and-a-half-months old. “The potholes started forming since mid-May, but no repair has been done. With monsoon arriving, the craters widened, leading to waterlogging. The area stays under water for days and vehicles headed for Dakshineswar, Dunlop, Baranagar and Belgharia have to slow down, manoeuvring it,” Saha said, adding he had seen several accidents and breakdowns at that crater. The Dakshineswar-bound stretch of Belgharia Expressway is perhaps at its worst at Belghoria’s Satinsennagar and Rajibnagar, Indira Cololy, Niranjan Pally and Niranjan Sen Nagar in Baranagar. The bad condition of the road adds to the snarls. Sudipta Mukherjee, a real estate developer and a resident of Belgharia’s Udaypur, said they faced jams regularly on the expressway during peak hours. But Biswajit Mahato, DCP (traffic), Barrackpore Commissionerate, said they had written to NHA. “We are trying to fill the craters somehow,” Mahato told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pond-like-craters-turn-belgharia-expressway-into-a-death-trap/articleshow/77229065.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
July 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Institutes study best Covid practices||AHMEDABAD: In times of Covid-19, specialized institutions have integrated pandemic-related learnings in the curriculum. At IIPH-Gandhinagar (IIPH-G), the students are participating in an online lecture series by global experts on Covid-19. Prof Dileep Mavalankar, director of IIPH-G, said that public health is the focal point of the current epidemic and they found it important to impart the best global practices to the students. “Thus, the students are now directly interacting with experts from across the globe on themes such as Covid spread patterns, modelling, learning from cities and treatment protocols,” he said. Praveen Nahar, director of NID Ahmedabad, said that the premier design institute has focused on the practical aspects of design to augment the ongoing efforts against the epidemic. “Many of the NIDians have participated in hackathons and competitions on the theme of Covid-19. We also recently organized a hackathon in partnership with Motwani Jadeja Foundation to find solutions related to the epidemic where we received about 500 entries,” he said. He added that there is also a focus on Covid-related solutions by NID-run National Design Business Incubator (NDBI) that mentors student projects. The practical work too has got a new spin. From this semester, educators at Cept University are stressing on using interactive online tools where they can change the designs at the shared screen easily. At IIT-Gandhinagar, the students can now earn up to 16 credits from the online coursework. The officials said that it has not only increased choice for the students but also gave them flexibility to work. Prof Kabeer Jasuja, associate dean (undergraduate studies), IIT-Gn, said that they are identifying more ways to review the student performances through quizzes, assignments, take-home exams and viva voce. “The lab work will be initiated when the students return to the campus,” he said. Similarly, at Institute of Technology of Nirma University, the officials are covering the theoretical aspects of respective topics as the practical work will be done after the university opens, said R N Patel, director of the institute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/institutes-study-best-covid-practices/articleshow/77229067.cms||Parth Shastri
July 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Non-judicial stamp paper: Pleas junked||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court quashed all six petitions challenging the state government’s decision to do away with physical use of non-judicial stamp papers and shifting to e-stamping last year. The HC quoted Greek philosopher Heraclitus’s statement “The only constant in life is change” to uphold the progression due to advanced technology and evolution of law as well. In September 2019, the government introduced 8A of the Sales Rules thereby shifting the duty payment procedure to electronic mode from papers. The challenge to this decision was on the ground of law as well as on practicality that various stamp vendors were rendered jobless. The HC took into notice consideration the Centre’s decision to make the stamp duty collection system foolproof after the Telgi stamp paper scam.  It also discussed seven security features in the electronic mode of stamping for duty payment. It also noticed that stamp vendors have not lost work but of 1,559 licensed vendors, 1,021 applied for licences as authorized collection centres. Moreover, the HC said that the law relating to stamp duty in Gujarat has undergone changes periodically. Franking was introduced in 1999 and in 2007 receipt challans or certificates were issued under the e-stamping system. Now, there is the elimination of non-judicial physical stamp paper and “a new era in this field of law has been ushered and this is a classic example of how law and evolution go hand in hand”. The HC also said that the litigation “has given us the opportunity of scanning the anatomy of a provision with the lens of pragmatism and has further enabled us to examine how law responds to the needs of the society and how law has been proactive in embracing advancement in technology.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/non-judicial-stamp-paper-pleas-junked/articleshow/77229062.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt opposes Hardik’s plea to lift bail condition||Ahmedabad: The state government on Tuesday vehemently opposed the plea of Gujarat Congress working president Hardik Patel to the city sessions court, to lift the bail condition restraining him from leaving the state without its permission. The court imposed the condition in a sedition case after he was arrested on a court warrant for his continued absence from the trial and was released on bail in January. He is facing sedition charges along with his former associates in the Patidar Anamad Andolan Saminit (PAAS), who were booked and arrested in 2015, after violence took place during the Patidar quota stir. Patel had requested the court to lift the restriction on the day he was elevated by the Congress to the post of working president in the state. Opposing the request, public prosecutor Sudhir Brahmbhatt submitted a detailed reply and argued that Hardik has a history of skipping hearings in the sedition case.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-opposes-hardiks-plea-to-lift-bail-condition/articleshow/77229072.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Diocese to cremate Covid victims in cemeteries||ALAPPUZHA: Setting an example, the Diocese of Alappuzha has decided to cremate the bodies of Covid-19 victims in its cemeteries. The first such cremation of a church member Thressiamma (Achamma), 62, who died due to Covid-19, was conducted at the cemetery of St. Augustine’s Church, Mararikulam, on Tuesday. Bishop James Anaparambil has issued a letter to diocese members in this regard, saying they have taken the decision based on the request of Alappuzha district collector and health workers. Collector A Alexander appreciated the diocese for coming forward to cremate Covid victims. “In many cemeteries of the diocese, the burial of victims is not possible as per the Covid-19 protocol due to waterlogging and high water table. So, the diocese took the initiative after a meeting attended by diocese consultors, forane vicars, among others,” said diocese members. “Bodies should be cremated at parish cemeteries concerned after the government completes the stipulated procedures. Mobile-cremation units can be used for this purpose. If there are public crematoriums in neighbouring areas, then the bodies can be cremated there also, but ashes should be brought to the cemetery. Ashes should be interred in the cemetery and should not be kept at home or released into waterbodies,” says the guidelines issued by the diocese. District reports 84 casesAlappuzha district reported 84 Covid-19 positive cases on Tuesday. Of the 84, 62 people contracted the disease through local transmission. Apart from two people with unknown sources of infections, 12 people who landed from abroad and eight from other states also tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/diocese-to-cremate-covid-victims-in-cemeteries/articleshow/77227721.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Kochi||Shopkeepers, auto drivers struggle to stay protected in Kerala||ALAPPUZHA: The front portion of a grocery shop near Punnapra police station is fully-covered with a transparent plastic sheet. Shoppers can interact with the shop owner, buy the things they want and pay the money through a small opening made in the middle of the plastic sheet. Strange as this may sound, it is likely to be the new normal. Auto drivers are also implementing several such precautions to reduce your chances of getting infected or spreading Covid-19. Many such initiatives have gone viral on social media receiving over-the-top compliments.  “I was a store manager in Saudi Arabia. I left Gulf two years ago. Since then, I have been running this grocery shop . It was my son who suggested me to cover the shop’s front portion with a transparent plastic sheet to ensure social distancing and prevent the spread of coronavirus,” said Asharaf M, the owner of the grocery shop at Punnapra.  “I am happy as the picture of my shop was widely shared on social media. I received calls from several people who appreciated my efforts to keep the virus away,” he said.  Similarly, autorickshaws are travelling with a plastic sheet that separates the drivers from the passengers. Auto drivers come in contact with hundreds of people and there is a good chance they will get infected by the virus.  As part of the initiative to introduce safe riding practices, some auto drivers also keep sanitizers with them. “Daily at least 40 people travel in my auto rickshaw and I don’t know theirbackground and travel history. I have to ensure the protection of my family as well as the commuters. So, I set up a sanitizer dispenser with the help of my friend who works in the health department,” said Sasi M, an autorickshaw driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/shopkeepers-auto-drivers-struggle-to-stay-protected/articleshow/77227718.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Trichy||Woman, 30, found dead in abandoned quarry in Trichy||Trichy: The body of a 30-year-old woman was found floating on water in an abandoned stone quarry at Edamalaipatti Pudhur in Trichy city on Tuesday. The deceased has been identified as Amala, wife of Manikandan, from RC Nagar at Edamalaipatti Pudhur. On Tuesday morning, local people spotted a body floating on the water in the quarry. Edamalaipatti Pudhur police and fire and rescue service personnel recovered and sent it to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) for postmortem. Preliminary enquiry revealed that the woman was working as a coolie. She returned from work on Monday afternoon and left her house to attend nature’s call. However, she did not return. The case was transferred to the all-women police station, Cantonment for further investigation. The AWPS police said that since she was married only a year ago, an inquiry by revenue divisional officer (RDO) will be conducted after which postmortem will be performed on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/woman-30-found-dead-in-abandoned-quarry-in-trichy/articleshow/77230097.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Caseload crosses 10,000 on day as one in every 36 tested turns Covid-19 positive||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The case load in the state crossed the 10,000-mark with 1,167 more cases reported on Tuesday. A total of 949 contact cases were also recorded. The total number of cases reported in the state touched 20,896, with active cases numbering 10,093. Total recoveries for the day stood at 679. Nearly 122 of the newly infected had travelled from abroad while 96 had come from other states. There is also no respite in the number of cases with no known source. On Tuesday, 55 such cases were reported. Four more deaths were reported in the state: Abubaker, 72, in Ernakulam, Abdul Rahman, 70, in Kasaragod, Sainuddien, 65, in Alappuzha and Selvamani, 65, in Thiruvananthapuram. Thiruvananthapuram reported 222 new cases. It was followed by Kottayam with 118 cases; Malappuram (112); Thrissur (109); Kollam (95); Palakkad (86); Alappuzha (84); Ernakulam (70); Kozhikode (67); Pathanamthitta (63); Wayanad (53); Kannur (43); Kasaragod (38); and, Idukki (7, all contact cases). The capital district also lead in the contact case count, with 199, while Kottayam reported 113; Malappuram (88); Kollam (77); Alappuzha (64); Ernakulam (61), Thrissur (58); Kozhikode (50); Wayanad (42); Pathanamthitta, Palakkad and Kasaragod (36 each); and, Kannur (21). Apart from this, 11 Kerala Solvent Extractions (KSE) employees, nine KLF employees and a BSF personnel in Thrissur and seven employees of Malabar Trading Co in Wayanad were infected through contact. As many as 1,50,716 persons are currently under surveillance in the state. Of this, 1,40,898 are in their homes or institutional quarantine centres and 9,818 are in isolation in hospitals. Nearly 1,343 persons were admitted to hospitals today. In the last 24 hours 19,140 samples were tested. Till now, a total of 7,09,348 samples have been tested with results of 6,596 samples still awaited. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the situation in the state capital is highly sensitive as more and more contact cases are being reported. “It is spreading wildly in different areas. In tests conducted at the Kinfra Park in Menmakulam, nearly 88 persons tested positive, which shows the gravity of the situation,’’ he said. If one in every 36 persons tested are turning positive in the state, in Thiruvananthapuram the ratio is 1:18. The first cluster in the district was reported on July 5 at Poonthura. This was followed by the clusters at Beemapally and Pulluvila on July 15. Now it has been spread to the entire coastal areas and other parts in the district. Vijayan said similar clusters have been identified at Ettumanoor in Kottayam, Pattambi in Palakkad, Kondotty in Malappuram, Thavinhal and Batheri in Wayanad and Chemmanadu in Kasaragod. The CM said testing has increased over the past one week and a review was done on the reasons for the delay in getting results. This was attributed to the higher testing numbers, especially in clusters. Healthcare workers are working round the clock to collect samples for testing. An RT-PCR test turnaround time is currently around six hours, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/caseload-crosses-10k-on-day-which-saw-949-contact-cases/articleshow/77227771.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Chennai||Mind the equity and quality gap in online education||By E Balagurusamy Chennai: Although Information and Communication Technology (ICT) has been used in educational administration and management for several years now and has been slowly gaining popularity in some schools, the Covid-19 pandemic has forced all educational institutions to completely focus on online delivery of courses. Read the entire story on TOI+https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/how-to-bridge-the-equity-quality-gap-in-online-education/articleshow/77262854.cms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mind-the-equity-and-quality-gap-in-online-education/articleshow/77229143.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Lucknow||Bridal Ayodhya zooms into ‘treta yug’: 3km stretch from helipad to temple site decked up||AYODHYA: After Prime Minister Narendra Modi touches down at the freshly laid helipad on the sprawling Saket College campus in Ayodhya, his cavalcade will zip through a decked-up 3km stretch to Ramjanmabhoomi and Hanumangarhi. Walls of buildings on either side of the broadened road have been enlivened with epic scenes from the Ramayana. Skilled artists are working round the clock to illuminate the weather-beaten walls with a fresh coat of yellow and painting the entire sequence of Ram’s childhood to exile and his return to Ayodhya. Senior district administration officials said, the PM is also scheduled to offer prayers at Hanumangarhi, but it’s not decided whether the ‘bhoomi pujan’ at Ramjanmabhoomi will precede the visit. Besides lifesize cutouts of Lord Ram and Sita near the Saket College gates, the entire 3km stretch will be lined with freshly plucked flowers on either side of the road. The civic body and the horticulture department are working on a war footing to beautify the area. Vendors and small shops have been evicted from the stretch to pave way for the PM’s visit. One lakh packets of ‘prasad’ will also be distributed among devotees after ‘bhoomi pujan’ and the district administration will manage distribution while strictly adhering to pandemic protocols, said, deputy director of information department, Murli Dhar Singh. Also, 1lakh diyas will be lit at Saryu ghat and temples, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/3km-stretch-from-helipad-to-temple-site-decked-up/articleshow/77230098.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
July 29, 2020||Pune||Pune: IB schools follow SOPs for remote teaching||PUNE: Technical support to parents, homeroom teacher assistance if students are unable to attend live sessions, planning lessons keeping in mind every age group’s attention span are among the many standard operating procedures that the city schools affiliated to the International Baccalaureate (IB) board have adopted in their online teaching. The board has provided schools in the city with podcasts to handle remote learning for children and efficiently teach the curriculum. President of Victorious Kidss Educares (VKE), Robbin Ghosh, said the IT cell’s contact is provided so that both the students and the teachers can seek technical help.  “The homeroom teacher’s number is also provided for assistance if any student cannot attend a session. So, VKE uses simple apps connected easily irrespective of the platform a smartphone or a computer uses. Apps like Google Classrooms, Managebac and ERP are really helping us stay connected through live streaming, pre-recorded videos of flipped and physical classrooms,” he said. According to the principal of Indus International School, Sandeep Chhabra, a start-up cell has been established by the school wherein the parent entrepreneurs are helping students work on ideas. Studetns are mentored by parents already into businesses or those who are entrepreneurs. The school has adopted the interdisciplinary inquiry resources for students to complete the inquiry independently, each task also includes suggestions of how teachers may facilitate their learning. Mohita Das, a teacher at an IB school, said, “IB’s continuity of plan for emergency learning has put forth teaching guidelines keeping in mind the transitions of students from one type of learning (traditional, physical classroom environment) to another (digitized, virtual environment).” The programme has lakhs of students in 125 countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ib-schools-follow-sops-for-remote-teaching/articleshow/77229148.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Pune||Pune University plans online classes from August 5||PUNE: Savitribai Phule Pune University is ready to roll out online classes for all non-first year batches whose results have been declared from August 5. An integrated online platform for affiliated colleges has been developed by the university. Each lecture is 250-350MB. There will be quizzes after every 10 minutes or after every lecture so that students do not log in and then skip lectures. No student can go ahead with the next part of the lecture series without getting some percentage of the answers right. The centralised system will ensure that university officials will know how many lectures a college has completed and how many students have attended them. Vice chancellor Nitin Karmalkar said professors have been told to give short audio-video clips wherein they explain a topic. They also need to email us three-four points about the objective of the clip, expected learning level of the student after listening to the clip, and a possibility of graphics. “The clip is reviewed by our team, compressed, questions are inserted, sometimes graphics are inserted and then sent to the professor for a review following which it is uploaded. We are also building a bibliography so that we do not just give the link of suggested reading material but have downloaded the relevant topics for students to go through,” he said. Teachers are being trained in developing e-content so that they can insert questions, modify the content, make a module. “At present, we are looking at 40% of the syllabus being taught online and 60% when the colleges reopen. A class of 100 students will be divided into four batches and each batch will come per week when the colleges reopen. After their classroom lectures, each batch will get at least two weeks in home quarantine. During this time, they can access the online material,” Karmalkar said. Every student and teacher has a login ID and password. The university will monitor at any time how much content a student or teacher has covered. “Students often complain that they were given admission and exams were conducted within 10 days. We can cross-check it now from the system,” Karmalkar said. Sanjay Chakane, principal of Arts, Science Commerce College in Indapur, one of the 10 colleges piloting this project, said their teachers are trained in making the module and they can insert graphics and questions. “The formative assessment model will be used in this online module to check progress. We tried it for BA students and it was a smooth process. We plan to start the online classes by August 5 or 6 for the first batch of students who would have taken admission by then,” he added. "If there is a student in region with no internet or phone range, then the student can even take the module on a pen drive or download it from a nearest centre, " said Karmalkar. SPPU is not charging any funds for this platform from the college but this year the varsity will not be disbursing funds to colleges for buying sports equipment etc, he added. "Our effort is to reach those colleges which are not the so called rich colleges and do not have money to build their own platforms. They can use this ready made module. We are also training the teachers to do this, " added Karmalkar. Prajakt Tanpure, state minister of higher education said, "SPPU has put up a good infrastructure for online teaching learning process. All universities in the state are trying to reach its students through online processes. As and when we find different problems, solutions would be found," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-varsity-plans-online-classes-from-aug-5/articleshow/77229144.cms||Ardhra Nair
July 29, 2020||Kochi||Beware, 43% ATMs in Kerala lack sanitization facilities||KOCHI: A survey conducted by Centre for Socio-economic and Environmental Studies (CSES) revealed that 43% of ATMs in the state are not equipped with proper sanitization facilities. The rapid survey was undertaken in 276 ATMs across the state during the period of July 24-27 in the context of the spread of Covid-19. Many of the ATMs have empty sanitizer bottles and are also littered with the same. In some ATMs, very small sanitizer bottles are kept and in others it is kept in an inconspicuous manner, the survey report said. Posters/notices with the instructions to sanitize hands before and after every cash transaction is displayed only in 40% ATMs. Only one-third of the ATMs have provided these instructions in Malayalam. No direction is provided in Kannada and Tamil in the ATMs visited in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu border regions. One-third of the total ATMs in Kerala belong to State Bank of India (SBI). However, sanitizer was available only in less than half of the SBI ATMs surveyed. Kerala-based private sector banks wage better in this regard (70%). In the case of other private and public sector banks, only half of their ATMs have sanitizer facilities. It is also found that the availability of sanitizer is considerably better in the ATMs installed near the bank branches. While in two-thirds of such ATMs, sanitization facilities are properly available, the same is available in 38% of standalone ATMs. “This difference may be because it is easier for the bank staff to re-fill/replace sanitizer bottles in the ATMs installed near the bank branches. However, it also points to the fact that banks need to specifically provide more attention to ensure sanitization facilities in standalone ATMs,” the report said. The survey also found that the availability of sanitization facilities in ATMs is worse in panchayats and municipalities. Sanitizers were available in 70% of ATMs located in corporations. However, the same was available in only 55% and 52% of ATMs situated in panchayats and municipalities, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/beware-43-atms-in-state-lack-sanitization-facilities/articleshow/77227789.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Bareilly||204 test positive for Covid-19 in three west UP districts, two die||Bareilly/Meerut/Agra: At least 204 people tested positive the fresh novel coronavirus in three districts of western Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday, while two people succumbed to the Covid-19 infection. With 152 people testing positive for Covid-19 in Bareilly, the district reached to 1,932, with 1,190 being active cases, said chief medical officer Dr Vineet Shukla. Besides, a man succumbed to the infection on Tuesday, taking the toll in the district to 52. The district has been reporting an increasing number of Covid-19 cases as 262 tested positive on Monday and 123 on Sunday. In Meerut, however, at least 28 people, including seven health workers at a private hospital, tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the district tally to 2,034, confirmed chief medical officer Dr Raj Kumar. In Agra, meanwhile, a 63-year-old man died due to Covid-19 at SN Medical College on Tuesday. A resident of Mathura district, the patient was suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to co-morbid condition. So far, 98 Covid-19 patients have died in the district. Meanwhile, at least 24 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Agra till Tuesday evening, taking the district tally to 1,701, with 222 being active cases. Meanwhile, six Covid-19 patients were discharged on Tuesday. Out of the 1,701 cases, 81.19% have been declared cured and discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/204-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-three-west-up-districts-two-die/articleshow/77226159.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Pune||Guidelines on college fees in the offing, says Prajakt Tanpure||PUNE: State minister for higher and technical education Prajakt Tanpure on Tuesday said that the fee structure of colleges would be reviewed and some guidelines issued soon. He was at the Savitribai Phule Pune University to review its online education platform. Many students have taken to the social media to question why they must pay fees for gymkhana, library, laboratory, educational trips and the mess when they would not be using any of these facilities this semester. They have also sought a concession in tuition fee as they are not using any of the college infrastructure.  Thousands of students from the rural parts study in cities where they live in hostels and dine at the mess. On the final-year examination, the minister said they were waiting for a speedy verdict from the court. “We understand that students are going through problems. Many have worked hard all these years, and many have their placement letters but are unable to join the workplace as they need their final year marksheet, those who would now look for jobs, once they get their final year marksheet, are facing uncertainty. We are hoping to get a verdict from the courts soon,” he said. Tanpure said the government does not want to declare a date for the Common Entrance Test and postpone it. "We are trying to conduct it in as many talukas as possible so that students do not have to travel long distances. However, taking the score of other exams or not conducting the CET or considering class XII marks for qualification is not fair to students who work hard for the CET," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/guidelines-on-college-fees-in-the-offingsays-tanpure/articleshow/77229155.cms||Ardhra Nair
July 29, 2020||India||CBI vs CBI: 18 months on, top officer hasn’t joined duty||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court was surprised to learn on Tuesday that CBI deputy superintendent of police A K Bassi, who had sided with then director A K Verma in his feud with then special director Rakesh Asthana, had not reported to Port Blair, where he was transferred more than one-and-a-half years ago. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian asked, “How can you not join your place of posting?” His counsel Rajeev Dhavan said Bassi had challenged his “illegal” transfer to Port Blair and the court in January last year had asked him to approach the authorities against the transfer. Dhavan went on to say that the transfer order, which was once kept suspended, was revived by the order of the CBI director, ignoring the letter and spirit of the Supreme Court order. The bench said, “Unless the transfer order is set aside by a court of law or appropriate forum, that order subsists. Even if according to you the order is illegal, you have to move a competent forum to set it aside. There is no order from the Supreme Court which said you need not join your post in Port Blair.” When Dhavan pleaded that Bassi had personal and domestic problems, the bench said, “We do not see any protection given to you from transfer by the Supreme Court. And what is this personal and domestic exigency that you will not join your place of posting in Port Blair? If you so wish, you can challenge it in an appropriate forum.” Dhavan said, “I understand the Supreme Court has compulsions against hearing this petition...My client will challenge the transfer order before the Central Administrative Tribunal.” The bench allowed him to withdraw the petition while saying, “Sorry, we cannot help you in this petition.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cbi-vs-cbi-18-months-on-top-officer-hasnt-joined-duty/articleshow/77231479.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
July 29, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Narasimha Rao wanted Babri Masjid as part of temple plan, says architect||LUCKNOW: Before the demolition of Babri Masjid, the then prime minister Narasimha Rao had asked Gujarat-based chief architect of the Ram temple project, Chandrakantbhai Sompura, if the mosque, too, could be the part of the plan and both the Babri Masjid and the Ram Temple could stand next to one another? As per 77-year-old Sompura, Rao had sought his opinion hinting that the mosque could remain where it was and if the temple could be constructed from beyond the Ram Chabutra. But the seed of the idea could not be sown, as the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) opposed such a plan. "The PM called me up directly and asked if the mosque with its three iconic domes could be part of the design along with the temple. I communicated the idea to VHP, who had roped me in for the project, but VHP vehemently opposed it and the idea got buried in time," Sompura told TOI over phone from Ahmedabad. "The VHP was adamant that if the 6 feet by 3 feet space of the khatiya (bed) where Bhagwan Ram was born is not the centre of the Ram Mandir, then it wouldn't matter where the temple comes up then. Ram Mandir had to be built at the very spot where the structure (mosque) was as they believed Lord Ram was born in the area right under the central dome," he added. Chandrakantbhai Sompura, whose grandfather had designed and refurbished Gujarat's Somnath temples among several other temples in the country also recalled to TOI his first meeting with VHP head and in charge of the Ram Mandir movement, Ashok Singhal. “I was approached by Ashok Singhal because of the many Birla temples I had designed all over the country. He contacted me through someone from there and we first met in Delhi where he proposed the Ayodhya project," said Sompura who has been involved with the project for over 30 years now. Singhal and Sompura then went together to Ayodhya to examine the disputed site. "There was a lot of fencing, huge walls barricading off the structure. I was not given permission to take my equipment and tape for measuring the area and I had to use the age-old method of measuring with the foot," he added. Sompura, then in his 40s, took long strides to measure the area of the mosque by his feet. “I remember it was a space of 80 feet by 40 feet inside the mosque and I had to adjust a few feet by experience, since there was no measuring tape. Rest of the area had huge walls," said the chief architect, whose two sons Nikhil and Ashish Sompura, now help their aged father with the project related traveling, especially during the pandemic. In the next six months after this episode, Sompura had the Ram Mandir design all ready and approved in the first go. The design remained unchanged for 30 years up until now with the new addition of an even grander Ram Mandir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rao-wanted-babri-as-part-of-temple-plan-architect/articleshow/77230107.cms||Yusra Husain
July 29, 2020||Bareilly||Five-year-old boy dies, another sustains injury after wall of school toilet collapses on them||Bareilly: A five-year-old boy died while his eight-year-old friend sustained injuries after the wall of a toilet on the school campus came crashing down on them in Lukepara village under Behjam block in Lakhimpur Kheri district on Tuesday morning. Bablu and Vikas were playing along with their friends near the toilet when the wall collapsed on them all of sudden and they were buried under debris. Both the children were rushed to a community health centre, where doctors pronounced Bablu dead upon arrival, while Vikas was referred to the district hospital after administering first aid. “It has been raining heavily for the past a few days and a portion of the toilet that was left incomplete due to the lockdown collapsed,” said a schoolteacher who wished not to be named. Basic shiksha adhikari Budhpriya Singh said, “I have asked the block education officer to probe the incident and find out the person responsible for the death.” Neemgaon police station SHO Amar Singh told TOI, “The body was sent for autopsy. The family has demanded action against the contractor who built the toilet, but we are yet to receive a written complaint in this connection. The other boy is stable and undergoing treatment at the district hospital.” This is the second death of a minor in a wall collapse incident in the district. On June 20, a 10-year-old boy was buried alive under debris of the boundary wall of a school. On July 25, three minor girls sustained grievous injuries after a wall at their house in the Oel area collapsed on them while they were playing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/five-year-old-boy-dies-another-sustains-injury-after-wall-of-school-toilet-collapses-on-them/articleshow/77226174.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 29, 2020||Kolhapur||2.5-month-old baby recovers from Covid in Panhala||Kolhapur: As many as 456 new cases and 11 deaths were reported across Kolhapur district on Tuesday. With addition of these numbers, the total number of Covid-19 cases has increased to 5,077 while the death toll stands at 141. Meanwhile, a two-and-a-half-month-old baby successfully recovered from the contagion and was discharged from a Covid care centre in Panhala. The baby had contracted the virus from his parents. The family had come to Panhala from Surat and on July 18, the baby and his parents tested positive for Covid-19. The parents have also recovered and got discharged from the hospital. Dispose bodies in scientific way District collector Abhijeet Chaudhary has directed the hospitals and civic bodies to ensure that bodies of Covid patients are cremated in a scientific manner in order to avoid the spread of the contagion among the health staff and the kin. “The guidelines for scientific disposal of bodies are in place. I have asked all the authorities to ensure that the rules are strictly followed. I have also asked them to provide a checklist to those involved in carrying out the last rites so that handling of the body does not lead to spread of the disease,” he said. Mobile app for bed availability Sangli administration has developed a mobile application, Bed Information System, to let people know about the availability of beds in government and private hospitals across the district. The information will be updated on the app twice in a day — at 10am and 5pm. The application also provides the list of the hospitals acquired for Covid treatment in all 10 tehsils of the district. A total of 139 cases were reported across Sangli district on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases to 1,898. Seven deaths were also reported that took the death toll to 64. The number of active cases currently stands at 924.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/2-5-month-old-baby-recovers-from-covid-in-panhala/articleshow/77226173.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Agra||Two weeks on, no sanitization in Agra markets||Agra: Sanitization work undertaken in view of the Covid-19 pandemic has stopped in city's marketplaces for the past two weeks, according to shopkeepers and market association leaders here. They said the sanitization work is not taking place even during the weekend lockdown period. In fact, they alleged, regular cleanliness work has not taken place in various parts of the city. The night cleaning plan has also been discontinued. Marketplaces like Rawatpara, Kinari Bazaar, Rajamandi, Lohamandi, Subhash Bazaar, Daresi, Luhaargali, Shahaganj, Noori Darwaza and Rajpur Chungi are among those where no sanitization has taken place for the past two weeks. TN Agarwal, president of the Agra Vyapar Mandal, said, “No sanitization work is taking place in the marketplaces. Regular cleaning-up is also not being conducted." He also blamed authorities for not making adequate arrangements to ensure social distancing in the marketplaces. A shopkeeper, Saurabh Gupta, said, “During the 'Unlock', no sanitization has taken place. Agra Municipal Corporation is not making efforts to curb Covid-19 from spreading." Talking to TOI, Mayor Naveen Jain said, “Complaints regarding sanitization and lack of proper cleanliness work in major markets have been received. Officials will be questioned in this regard. Soon, a city-wide drive for sanitization in marketplaces will be launched.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/two-weeks-on-no-sanitization-in-agra-markets/articleshow/77226183.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid knot? Registrations dip as big fat weddings see lean numbers||HYDERABAD: While the glitter and pomp of the regular traditional marriages is missing due to Covid-19 induced rules and social distancing norms, the number of registrations under Hindu Marriages Act this year clearly indicates that more than 70% of the marriages are postponed. Data with TOI shows that annually, an average of 90,000 registrations took place over the past three years, but by mid of July in 2020, only 15,329 registrations had taken place, indicating a major slowdown in registrations. In 2019, a total of 97,149 registrations took place whereas the first quarter of this year had only 15,320 marriage registrations. Though not all traditional marriages are registered, it is indicated by the numbers that slowed registrations of marriages were postponed by the people. “My daughter got engaged. We wanted her to get married this month, but ultimately we had to postpone to October,” said PV Subhash, grandson of former prime minister Narasimha Rao and BJP leader. Officials said that last year, a total of 9,098 (April 2019), 10,950 (May 2019), 14,057 (June 2019) registrations took place and the numbers stand at 46 (April 2020), 3,769 (May 2020), 7,021 (June 2020) for the same months this year. Officials point out that while about 70% of the registrations are of newlyweds, some are also those who want to go abroad. “There will be old couples who did not got their registrations at the time of their marriage, but want to go abroad and register. In some districts, people register for Kalyana Lakshmi scheme,” a Registration and Stamps Department official said. This is also indicative of people not keen to get married or elders not keen on getting their kin married during Covid-19. “ Before the marriage season, I get at least five or six requests for fixing auspicious timings to get married in a week, but now I get hardly one or two such requests,” VA Sharma, a priest from Chikkadapally said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-knot-registrations-dip-as-big-fat-weddings-see-lean-nos-/articleshow/77230126.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 29, 2020||Bareilly||Covid positive woman flees Pilibhit hosp with newborn, booked||Pilibhit: A woman who gave birth here on Monday morning, fled with her newborn after she learnt that she was Covid-19 positive and would be shifted to an L-1 facility. She and her husband have been booked for violating norms to check the pandemic from spreading. A written complaint was filed by the medical officer of the Government Women Hospital against the couple. According to senior consultant of women hospital, Dr Pushpa Pant, an Asha worker had admitted the pregnant woman, who delivered a baby at 11.39 am on Monday. The hospital authorities received her corona report at 3.30 pm that confirmed her to be Covid positive. The woman was immediately taken to an isolation ward and at 7.30 pm, when the doctors were preparing to shift her to an L-1 facility, she fled along with her baby and husband, said Pant. It is feared that the woman will transmit the infection to others. Shrikant Dwivedi, SHO, said the couple was booked under IPC section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant), 269 (unlawful or negligent act likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) besides provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/covid-positive-woman-flees-pilibhit-hosp-with-newborn-booked/articleshow/77226202.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Bareilly||64 trainee SIs, all in their 50s, test Covid +ve in UP's Moradabad||Bareilly: As many as 64 trainee sub-inspectors — all in their 50s — at Police Training College (PTC) on Kanth road in UP’s Moradabad tested positive for Covid-19, taking the district tally to 1,454 on Tuesday. The district health department on Monday conducted rapid antigen tests on around 130 trainees on the PTC campus for quick detection of Covid-19 and 64 of them tested positive for the deadly virus. Health department officials said all 64 trainees — mostly asymptomatic — were admitted to various Covid care centres and their contacts were being traced. All the 64 trainees were head constables and had got promoted as sub-inspectors (SIs) recently, which necessitated them to undergo training at the PTC. Speaking to TOI, Moradabad chief medical officer (CMO) Dr MC Garg said, “A trainee at the PTC fell ill recently and later, he was found to be with symptoms of Covid-19, following which the health department decided to conduct rapid antigen tests on around 130 trainees. The tests were conducted on Monday and 64 of them tested positive for Covid-19. The rapid antigen test will continue at the PTC for now. We are, meanwhile, tracing their contacts.” “Of the 64 infected trainees, 15 are with co-morbidity and have been admitted to Teerthanker Mahaveer Medical College and Research Centre, while others were sent to various Covid care centres. Most of the trainees who tested positive were found to be asymptomatic and did not show even mild symptoms,” added the CMO. PTC additional director general Brij Raj told TOI that a list was being prepared of those trainees and staff members who came in contact with the 64 infected trainees. “More tests will be conducted on the campus for early detection and timely treatment of the infection. Besides, fumigation and sanitation will also be conducted on the premises.” According to health department officials, due to the consistent rise in the Covid-19 cases in the district, the rapid antigen test has been started for quick and early detection of the virus among people. Officials said rapid testing camps were being set up, especially, in the containment zones in the district which has, so far, reported 1,454 cases — with 500 being active cases. Nearly 900 people have recovered and discharged, while 51 succumbed to the deadly virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/64-trainee-sis-all-in-their-50s-test-covid-ve-in-ups-moradabad/articleshow/77226186.cms||Maria Khan
July 29, 2020||Trichy||All samples taken from G Corner mkt test negative||Trichy: All the 32 samples collected from traders and head load workers in G Corner wholesale vegetable market last week were tested negative for Covid-19. While Trichy Corporation heaved a sigh of relief, local people are in no mood to relax. Claiming that the number of 32 samples were inadequate for a market that attracts thousands of traders each day, the residents pitched for a proper mass screening at the market. As many as 10 vegetable vendors at a couple of retail vegetable markets in Trichy city tested positive during mass screenings organised in early July 2020. Most of them claimed that they travelled to the G Corner wholesale market on Trichy-Chennai NH. After much delay, Trichy Corporation collected 32 samples from the wholesale market on July 22 and all of them tested negative, the results came out on Tuesday. However, local people feel that the number of samples was too low. “At least a hundred samples should be collected from the G Corner market. Only then, we will get to know the real picture of the spread at the market,” H Ghouse Baig, secretary, Consumer Protection Council, Ponmalai branch, said. Corporation sources said that 32 samples were collected from people considered as most vulnerable. “We identified senior citizens and people with symptoms for the screening at G Corner last week. Healthy asymptomatic people were not tested,” corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian told TOI. While the city continues to record asymptomatic cases of late, people resent the decision to test only symptomatic people at the market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/all-samples-taken-from-g-corner-mkt-test-negative/articleshow/77230128.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 29, 2020||Agra||Five held for strangling 3-year-old to avenge ‘insult’ by her dad||Agra: Etah police arrested five persons on Tuesday for allegedly strangling a three-year-old girl to death to take revenge from her father for ‘insulting’ them. The crime was committed in Datauli village under Jiathra police limit.Based on a written complaint by the girl’s father, police initially lodged an FIR of kidnapping against unknown person, but later arrested five and charged them with murder. The accused were identified as Vineeta, Aman Thakur, Karun, Budhpal and Kalicharan.According to police, Hirdesh Gupta, father of the girl identified as Kinjal, recently had a confrontation with his three cousins after he found his niece Vineeta along with Aman Thakur. Police said that the family felt insulted and plotted the murder to avenge this. Later, they abducted his three-year-old daughter on Monday,killed her and hid the body, police said.Etah superintendent of police Sunil Kumar Singh said, “Budhpal, Karun and Kalicharan were awarded life sentence in 2002 for a murder they had committed in 1997. However, all three were out on bail. Last week they engaged in a scuffle with Hirdesh. Taking it as an insult to the family, the accused hatched a plan to take revenge.”“On Monday morning, Vineeta took Kinjal to her home on the pretext of giving her some snacks. However, as soon as she brought the victim inside her house, she along with Aman Thakur, Karun, Budhpal and Kalicharan strangled her and hid her body in the house. Two hours later, when Hirdesh came to Vineeta’s home searching for his daughter, he was informed that Kinjal left for home. The family searched for her for several hours. Later, the conspiracy was unearthed,” the SP added.He said, “All the five were arrested on Tuesday and the victim’s body was recovered. The autopsy confirmed strangulation as the cause of her death.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/five-held-for-strangling-3-year-old-to-avenge-insult-by-her-dad/articleshow/77226194.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Bareilly||After advice from priest, 18-year-old takes dip in river, gets killed by crocodile in Dudhwa||Bareilly: An 18-year-old man was killed by a crocodile when he was taking a dip at the Suheli river inside the buffer forest area of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (DTR). The victim was reportedly advised to take a bath in the river by a priest after completing a ‘havan’ near the river at the Majhgai range of the reserve. The incident occurred at around 5 pm on Monday. The body of Rinkesh Kumar was recovered nearly two kilometres from the incident spot and sent for autopsy on Tuesday. According to DTR officials, the crocodile had dragged the youth into deep water while his disabled father restlessly shouted for help. The other members of the family immediately alerted the forest department and a rescue operation was initiated, but it was suspended due to sunset. The body was then recovered on Tuesday morning. Officials have found deep wounds on the neck and shoulder. “We have already informed local villagers about the presence of crocodiles in the river but they still performed rituals near the river and even took a bath, risking their life. Compensation, in this case, is highly unlikely, as the incident was reported in the reserve forest area. The revenue department will decide whether to award compensation under the State Calamity Act or not,” field director of DTR, Sanjay Pathak said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/after-advice-from-priest-18-year-old-takes-dip-in-river-gets-killed-by-crocodile-in-dudhwa/articleshow/77226196.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 29, 2020||Lucknow||Without pollution, we could live for 10+ years: Report||Lucknow: Have you ever considered how much longer you could live if you were breathing in clean air? A Lucknow resident could add 10.3 years to his life if WHO guidelines on particulate matter in the air are met. This is the the maximum number of years in the entire country that can be added to a person’s life by cutting down on PM2.5 pollutants in the air as per pollution data of 2018. The conclusion was drawn by data churned out by the Air Quality Life Index (AQLI) webtool developed by the Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago (EPIC). The report was released on Tuesday. As per AQLI, Lucknow tops the chart in India with 10.3 years which could be added to a citizen’s life. It was followed by Delhi with 9.4 years and Kanpur with 9 years, if WHO’s safe exposure levels are followed. This also means that in Lucknow, concentration of PM 2.5 was higher than that of Delhi in 2018. WHO sets reduction of PM2.5 concentration from 35g/m3 to 10g/m3 as a safe level of exposure. The method has been developed by EPIC director Michael Greenstone and is rooted in peer reviewed research co-authored by him. It converts particulate air pollution into its impact on life expectancy. If data from AQLI is believed, then a quarter of India’s population is exposed to pollution levels not seen in any other country. The nearly 200 million residents of Uttar Pradesh are losing more than 8 years of life expectancy according to WHO’s guideline. Within UP, the tool measures increase in life expectancy of residents of Rae Bareli by 9.9 years, Amethi by 9.8 years, Bulandshahr by 9.8 years and Kanpur by 9 years. Jhansi and Lalitpur at the lower rung of the data ladder with relatively lower levels of PM 2.5, can add 5 and 4 years respectively to the life of their residents if WHO guidelines are met. “Though the threat of coronavirus is grave and deserves every bit of the attention it is receiving—perhaps more in some places—embracing the seriousness of air pollution with a similar vigour would allow billions of people around the world to lead longer and healthier lives,” said Michael Greenstone, the Milton Friedman distinguished service professor of economics and creator of AQLI. He added that in India, the solution lies in robust public policy. The index is based on the diseases and harm air pollution can cause to the human body. Air pollution’s deadly effects on the heart, lungs, and other systems have a more devastating impact on life expectancy than communicable diseases like tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS, behavioural killers like cigarette smoking, and even war, the report said. PM2.5 penetrates deep into the lungs, bypassing the body’s natural defences. From there, these tiny particles can enter the bloodstream, causing lung disease, cancer, stroke and heart attack, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/without-pollution-we-could-live-for-10-years-report/articleshow/77230116.cms||Yusra Husain
July 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Let BBMP provide staff, we’ll give beds, say private hospitals||BENGALURU: Ten of the 50 hospitals that were slapped with show-cause notices by the BBMP for refusing to admit Covid-19 patients have fallen in line and agreed to cooperate with state authorities. However, most of the other hospitals are demanding that the civic body hire staff and deploy them in their hospitals since are facing a severe shortage on that front. The notices were issued to hospitals last week and most of them shot off replies within hours, BBMP officials said, adding that only a handful extended help and cooperation. “We might be able to provide beds, but we don’t have the staff to help. Our staffers are already over-burdened,” a private hospital official said. “There are many Covid patients receiving treatment in our hospitals and our staff are working relentlessly. If the BBMP wants our support, let them provide us with trained staff.” BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad, during the council meeting on Tuesday, indicated that help from private hospitals is vital. “There are many hospitals which have adequate beds with ventilator and oxygen support and we need their support in handling the Covid-19 challenge,” Prasad said. However, hospitals say they have problems of their own. A private hospital in Jayanagar said shortage of staff is forcing them to turn patients away. “Our bed capacity is 120, but we have only 27 medical nurses working on a daily basis. The rest are afraid of Covid,” said a senior medical officer of the hospital. Several other hospitals said, “Let the BBMP help us with staff, including medical nurses and duty doctors and we will immediately extend our support and provide ventilators and oxygen support. Prasad revealed discussions to resolve these issues are on at the government level. “We will soon take a decision,” Prasad said. He asserted that the problem will be fixed in a day or two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/let-bbmp-provide-staff-well-give-beds-say-private-hospitals/articleshow/77226816.cms||Nithya Mandyam
July 29, 2020||Bareilly||Two arrested, two years after issuing appointment letter with CMO’s fake sign||Bareilly: Two persons were arrested on Tuesday for issuing a fake appointment letter of the chief medical officer (CMO) to a man, for the job of a ward boy. Police said the accused had faked the CMO’s signature in the fake letter, and taken money from the complainant in exchange of the job in 2018. Station house officer, Kotwali police station, Geetesh Kapil, said, “We have arrested Ravindra Sharma and Manish Kumar for issuing a fake appointment letter for the job of a ward boy. Both accused are natives of Budaun and have been absconding for nearly two years, since the case was registered.” Police said based on the complaint of the victim, they had lodged an FIR against the accused, under sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of a valuable document), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (fraudulently using a forged document as genuine) of IPC in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-arrested-two-years-after-issuing-appointment-letter-with-cmos-fake-sign/articleshow/77226216.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
July 29, 2020||Agra||Massive Python found in a drain near Agra hospital||Agra: An eight-foot-long python left the residents of Chandra Nagar in a state of panic. The reptile was discovered in a drain located right behind Asopa Hospital and Research Centre in Agra on Tuesday. As soon as the incident was reported to the Police Control Room (PCR), officials alerted Wildlife SOS helpline and a trained snake rescuer immediately reached the spot. The python was taken out of the drain and transferred to a safe transport carrier. It was kept under observation for a few hours and later released back to its natural habitat, said an NGO worker.Mahak Gupta, the caller who alerted the PCR said, “We were out on a walk when we heard some noise coming from the drain near our house. As soon as we spotted a python, we informed the NGO- Wildlife SOS workers. They sent a rescuer who extricated the python much to our relief.”The Indian rock python can length out to be as long as 20 ft. They are native to tropical andsubtropical regions of the Indian subcontinent and Southeast Asia. This species is protected under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 and listed under Appendix I of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Flora and Fauna (CITES), which regulates the international trade of wildlife species.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/massive-python-found-in-a-drain-near-agra-hospital/articleshow/77226207.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Kolhapur||4 Satara doctors suspended for absence from duty||Kolhapur: Satara district collector Shekhar Singh has ordered the suspension of four doctors working with the government civil hospital for their continuous absence from duty during the coronavirus pandemic. The orders were issued after completing the inquiry and administrative procedure like sending notices to the doctors concerned. Officials of the district administration said that the doctors failed to resume their duties for a long time and did not give satisfactory explanation for their absence. According to officials, one of the doctors was absent from duty for about 18 months without any notice. One of the doctors was absent for around eight months, other one did not turn up for duty for 14 months while another one was absent since March this year. All of them have been suspended till further instructions. Meanwhile, Satara district continues to register fresh Covid-19 cases with as many as 135 patients reported since late Monday. The district also reported two Covid-related casualties. With this the total number of cases in the district reached 3,338, of which, 1,798 are currently active. The district has reported 116 deaths so far. Singh said that asymptotic patients would not be allowed to occupy beds in hospital in the future in view of the increasing number of Covid patients. He said that asymptotic people and patients with minor symptoms will be sent to Covid Care Centres for further treatment. Singh also warned of legal action against those who fail to abide by the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/4-satara-doctors-suspended-for-absence-from-duty/articleshow/77226200.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Bareilly||Farmer jumps into canal to end life, saved||Pilibhit: Baljeet Singh, 30, a farmer from Pilibhit's Paurkhas village under Gajraula police station, tried to end his life by jumping into Nigohi branch canal on Tuesday morning but was rescued. He has been admitted to hospital. A suicide note addressed to the superintendent of police has been found. Baljeet was under extreme stress due to a dispute relating to 8 acres of agricultural land he had purchased at Rs 8 lakh per acre two years ago but mutation of the land could not be executed, said Kashmir Singh, his father. The land had carried a bank loan worth Rs 35 lakh, which was to be repaid by seller Roorh Singh. But the latter allegedly went back on the agreement after another party offered him Rs 15 lakh an acre for the same land in June. Thereafter, Roorh Singh and his musclemen took possession of the land and stopped Baljeet from cultivating it, claimed Kashmir Singh Baljeet sought police intervention but to no avail, he said, adding that is when he tried to end his life. Jai Prakash Yadav, superintendent of police, said the dispute was to be resolved by the revenue authorities. The police had already sent the report concerned to the district magistrate on June 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/farmer-jumps-into-canal-to-end-life-saved/articleshow/77226209.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Housing societies can fine you Rs 1,000 for refusing to wear mask||MUMBAI: Your housing societies can collect a fine of Rs 1000 from you if you are found not wearing the face mask inside the society premises. In a first such directive, the office of assistant registrar of cooperatives department (S Ward) has directed housing societies under its jurisdiction to impose penalty on those not wearing the mask inside society premises. The letter issued by the registrar, copy of which is with TOI, pointed out that BMC had already made social distancing and face mask mandatory at public places. BMC has also made a provision to impose fine of Rs 1000 on those breaching face-mask norm, it added. "The management committee needs to get the approval of the general / special general meeting to take any punitive action against the concerned for refusing to use the mask despite the request of the office bearers of the organization. However, due to the essays on Covid 19, the organization is unable to convene a general meeting / special general meeting. And there is no provision in the law for holding general meetings by video conferencing. It is also not possible for the officials of the organization to lodge a complaint with the police station every time against the irresponsible residents concerned. Therefore, they have requested for instructions in this regard from the office level," the letter by Rajesh Lovekar, assistant registrar, coopertive societies, S-Division said while explaining the reason behind issuing of the directive. However, Jeby Patel and VIjay Patel of All India Cooperative Housing Societies Association (AICHSWA) said they had no objection to the move but there was no clarity as to who will issue the receipt against collection of fine and where to deposit money-- with the society or the BMC?. "Had the registrar clarified on fine collection and its use, things could have been easier for us to implement on it quickly," they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/housing-society-can-fine-you-rs1000-for-refusing-to-wear-mask/articleshow/77228766.cms||Chittaranjan Tembhekar
July 29, 2020||Goa||Karnataka govt sanctions Rs 885 crore for Kalasa-Bhandura project||Even as the Supreme Court is yet to hear special leave petitions filed by Goa, Karnataka and Maharashtra in the Mhadei water diversion case, the Karnataka state cabinet has sanctioned Rs 885.5 crore for the completion of the contentious Kalasa-Bhandura project. “There is a need to finish the project as early as possible to meet drinking water needs. After a discussion with the chief minister (B S Yediyurappa), I will take the needful steps to complete work,” Karnataka water resources minister Ramesh Jarkiholi told reporters at Bengaluru, on Tuesday. Earlier this month, the apex court had adjourned the case to August 24 for fixing a further date of hearing. The three states, in their special leave petitions, have challenged the award given by Mhadei Water Disputes Tribunal on August 14, 2018, pertaining to the allocation of water. The Union ministry of environment, climate and forest change, meanwhile, has already asked the Karnataka government to submit a new proposal to obtain forest clearance for the Kalasa-Bhandura project. In its award, the Mhadei Water Disputes Tribunal had directed Karnataka to implement the project only after obtaining mandatory clearances as required by the law. On August 14, 2018, the three-decade old dispute between Goa and Karnataka over sharing of the Mhadei water ended by the Mhadei Water Disputes Tribunal rejecting Karnataka’s demand for 36.5tmc feet of water. It allotted only 13.4tmc, including 3.9tmc ft for drinking purposes through diversions against its demand for 7.5tmc ft.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktaka-govt-sanctions-rs-885cr-for-kalasa-bhandura-project/articleshow/77230142.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
July 29, 2020||Bareilly||Woman tests Covid positive after giving birth, flees with newborn from Pilibhit hosp||Pilibhit: A woman who recently gave birth at the Government Women's Hospital in Piibhit fled with her newborn after she learnt that she tested Covid-19 positive and would be shifted to an L-1 facility, where non-critical patients are treated. Senior consultant of the hospital Dr Pushpa Pant said the woman had delivered a baby at 11.39 am on Monday. The hospital authorities received her corona report at 3.30 pm that confirmed her to be Covid positive. “The woman was immediately taken to an isolation ward. At 7.30 pm, when the doctors were preparing to shift her to an L-1 facility, she, along with her husband, fled with the baby,” Pant said. A written complaint was filed by the medical officer of the hospital following which the woman and her husband were booked. “The couple has been booked under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant), 269 (unlawful or negligent act likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) and the Epidemic Diseases Act,” Station house officer, Shrikant Dwivedi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-tests-covid-positive-after-giving-birth-flees-with-newborn-from-pilibhit-hosp/articleshow/77226231.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Goat sellers and buyers surf online, explore options for qurbani||LUCKNOW: As the Covid crisis continues to hover, city residents have been looking at ways to buy a goat for sacrifice on Bakrid, falling on August 1. From ordering online through Pashu Bazar — a platform providing procuring of animals for four years, to physically visiting goat farms and asking the butchers in colony to arrange goats, they have been trying everything they could. “In the last 15 days, 200 people have ordered online. We now also give the option of video calling so that customers can have a look at the animal. The customer can also opt for doorstep delivery of animal,” said chief operating officer Vinay Gautam. The number of orders will go up to at least 400 as the festival draws closer, he added. “We work with local farmers of 100 villages between Rasoolpur Sadaat and Mahmudabad. We’ve sold 14,000 goats in the four years,” he added. “Every year I got five truckloads of 30-40 goats from Meerut and Bulandshahr, but this year I got just one and 12 goats are still unsold. Earnings have been hit,” said Aslam Ali of FF goat farm on Sultanpur road. He also added that the pandemic has led to people downsizing the number and size of goats they purchased. “Where is the purchasing power in these times?” he remarked. Mohammad Rizwan of Zam Zam goat farm in Sadar said, “I am getting around 10 calls a day through little online marketing initiatives that I took late, since I wasn’t prepared for this situation. This year most of those coming to buy goats from me are from the nearby localities only,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/goat-sellers-and-buyers-surf-online-explore-options-for-qurbani/articleshow/77230137.cms||Yusra Husain
July 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Tainted by graft, 53 cops suspended in 18 months||CHANDIGARH: Showing zero tolerance towards corruption and indiscipline in the UT police force, the police department has dismissed six cops and suspended 47 cops from the rank of inspector to constable. Besides this, the police department had also initiated a departmental inquiry against around 70 cops from January 1, 2019 to July 25, 2020. Notably, 15 cops have been suspended, including SHO Jaswinder Kaur and two cops of traffic police have been dismissed so far in the past seven months this year. The police said most of the cops were dismissed and suspended for their alleged involvement in corruption cases. The UT police department has dismissed two traffic cops for allegedly demanding bribe of Rs 500 and three traffic cops were suspended in another bribery case in which they demanded Rs 1,000. Senior officials said it was clear that there was no room for corruption in the UT police force and stern action would be taken against erring officials. The CBI arrested middlemen red-handed while allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs one lakh on behalf of then SHO Jaswinder Kaur. The CBI booked Jaswinder Kaur and the police department suspended her and initiated a departmental enquiry after sending her to police lines. Last year in November, during the Raising Day parade at the police lines in Sector 26, Sanjay Baniwal, DGP, UT police, had said that it was a loud and clear message for the cops that indiscipline and corruption would not be tolerated. To make the UT police corruption free, the police department would not hesitate from dismissing cops from their services. The chief guest on the occasion was UT administrator V P Singh Badnore and he had appreciated the action taken by the police against corrupt and undisciplined cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/tainted-by-graft-53-cops-suspended-in-18-months/articleshow/77227922.cms||Pawan Tiwari
July 29, 2020||Kolhapur||Over 1,000 cases reported in Kolhapur within a month||Kolhapur: An unprecedented rise in Covid-19 cases has been reported across Kolhapur city with over 1,000 cases being reported within a month — from 37 cases on June 27 to 1,100 cases on July 27. The number of deaths has also gone up from one to 19 between the same period. Officials are concerned over the spread of coronavirus as the city had only four positive cases till the first week of May. Kolhapur city, having an area of 66.82 square km, currently has 137 micro-containment zones that mainly cover 30 big and small localities. New patients are being added in areas like Rajarmpuri, Timber Market, Yadav Nagar and Jawaahar Nagar every day. As many as nine areas have recorded more than 30 patients each. At 77, Rajarampuri has the highest number of patients followed by Timber Market (57). Kolhapur city and six municipal councils, considered as urban pockets, together have around half of the patients in the district currently. While Kolhapur city had 1,100 patients till Monday night, six municipal councils have recorded 1,018 positive cases. The district had a total of 4,621 positive cases till Monday. Earlier, Shahuwadi had the highest number of patients at the initial stage, but it has now been replaced by Karveer that has 520 positive cases. Shahuwadi currently has 261 cases while Chandgad and Hatakanangale have 344 and 327 cases, respectively. Kagal tehsil has the lowest number of cases (81). Of the 129 deaths in the district, 72 are from the urban pockets. Rural areas have so far reported 50 deaths due to the contagion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/over-1000-cases-reported-in-kolhapur-within-a-month/articleshow/77226246.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Trichy||More getting discharged than infected inTrichy city||Trichy: The rate of discharge of Covid-19 patients from hospitals has been more than the rate of fresh infection in Trichy city if the past three days’ figures are anything to go by. This was unlike in the previous week when it was quite the opposite. The relatively young population, a majority among the fresh cases reported recently, getting cured faster was cited as the reason for this.Between July 19 and 24, the average number of people from the city contracting the infection was lingering around 115 while those getting cured and discharged stood on an average 52 people. Throughout the week, fresh infection reported daily was surpassing the discharges. But, between July 25 and 27, an average 100 people per day were reported positive whereas around 115 on an average were getting discharged from hospitals in the city. Thus, the rate of discharge rose between 5% and 16% than the previous days while the rate of fresh infections rose between 4% and 7% between July 25 and 27. Trichy corporation maintained that the number of people being tested and screened in fever camps had not gone down. Instead, from testing 600 people a day a few weeks ago, the city tests around 1,100 a day now. On the rise in discharge rate, the civic body said most of the family contacts of index cases recently tested positive were asymptomatic. Since asymptomatic patients recover quicker, the discharge rate has been gradually increasing. “The city recently recorded several asymptomatic cases among fresh cases. They are getting cured now, the city is not in an alarming situation. But, we are focussing on residents above 50 years to reduce the fatality risk,” S Sivasubramanian, corporation commissioner said. Among the four zones, K Abishekapuram so far had the highest recovery rate with 69% followed by Srirangam (66%) and Ponmalai and Ariyamangalam zones (59%). Experts opined that mild or low virulence causing the infection could also have been reason for the quicker recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/more-getting-discharged-than-infected-intrichy-city/articleshow/77230155.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 29, 2020||Goa||Survival of tigers at risk in Goa’s forests, says report||KERI: In January this year four tiger carcasses were found in and around the Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary. This triggered a national uproar. Debates on how safe the big cat was in the state’s protected forests followed. A February 2020 report submitted by the National Tiger Conservation Authority, Bengaluru had highlighted the apathy of the state’s forest department in safeguarding the tiger. “It was observed that there were no proper protection mechanisms in place within the sanctuary, like a network of well-connected anti-poaching camps at strategic locations manned by forest guard/watchers 24x7, which is a very common feature of well managed protected tiger reserves,” the report had stated. There are only four camps at Codal, Nagargao, Valpoi and Caranzol for a sanctuary spread over an area of more than 200sqkm, the report stated. However, nearly five months later, nothing much has been done by the forest department to rectify shortcomings in the system. Additional principal chief conservator of forests, Santosh Kumar told TOI that his department is still in the process of establishing anti-poaching camps and watch towers in the sanctuary. “We have already taken steps for creating critical tiger breeding habitat inviolate areas. Systematic patrolling for safeguarding tigers, their prey and habitat has been initiated. In spite of the Covid-19 pandemic, our staff is making necessary arrangements for providing infrastructure required for efficient management of the tiger habitats,” he said. The report, submitted by a team headed by Rajendra Garawad, additional inspector general of forests with the Bengaluru authority, had laid stress on the importance of an organised anti-poaching camp network and regular patrolling. “It is highly possible that tigers, their prey base and other flora, fauna might be subjected to varying degrees of poaching pressure, but there is no way to know unless a good protection and information network is put in place,” the report had stated. Experts said that killing of the four tigers in January and one other in April 2009 in Keri-Sattari inside a cashew plantation had brought to fore not only the threat of poaching, but also man animal conflict. “Increasing anthropogenic activities have resulted in decreasing tigers as well as prey and their habitat,” member of the Goa State Wildlife Advisory Board, Arnold Noronha said. It was suspected that the four tigers were killed by the tribals who live in the vicinity after two of their buffaloes were killed by a tiger in December 2019. Latest data collected by the forest department shows the presence of three tigers in the Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary. As the world marks World Tiger Day on Wednesday, Noronha said that if no sincere efforts are made, tigers will face extinction in the wilds of Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/survival-of-tigers-at-risk-in-goas-forests-says-report/articleshow/77230156.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
July 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Thief who stole Rs 90 lakh from Hyderabad firm caught in Gujarat||HYDERABAD: In a case involving inter-state travel during the time of pandemic, Hyderabad police caught a thief who stole Rs 90 lakh cash from a businessman and fled to Gujarat. Despite the Covid-19 scare, cops are still pursuing inter-state investigations in important cases while following all safety precautions. On July 13, Abids police received a complaint from Ravindera Majethiya, who runs a finance firm, NK & Co in Ahmedabad and Hyderabad. Majethiya alleged that Rakesh Kannara, who is a friend of his employee, Jay Kumar, had stolen Rs 90 lakh cash from their Hyderabad office in Jagdish Market, Abids. Police team verified the CCTV camera footage and found out that Babu Kannara alias Rakesh Kannara went to Patancheru in an auto from Abids. Police also questioned Majethiya’s Hyderabad office employees, Jay Kumar and Mohith. Jay told that Rakesh confined him in the room by tying up his arms and legs with a duct tape and took his cell phone. From Jay’s cell phone, Rakesh sent messages to Mohith asking him not to disturb him for few hours. Rakesh also sent messages to Mohith from Jay’s phone instructing him to collect Rs 90 lakh cash from two persons in the city and keep it in the office, Abids police said. After Mohith kept the cash in the office and went out, Rakesh picked up the money and fled from the city. Though Rakesh switched off his known phone numbers, police managed to identify one number he was using and they tracked him to Surat. Rakesh travelled in trucks from Telangana to Gujarat via Karnataka and Maharashtra. He paid Rs 14 lakh advance to a Hyundai showroom in Surat to purchase a SUV. “As he reached the car showroom to take delivery of the SUV, our team nabbed him. Almost the entire amount of stolen money was recovered. After the health checkup our team brought the accused to city on a transit warrant in the third week of July. On Monday, our team took him into custody for questioning,” Central Zone DCP P Viswa Prasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/thief-who-stole-rs-90l-from-hyd-firm-caught-in-gujarat/articleshow/77230158.cms||Mahesh Buddi
July 29, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC: Are there checks to ensure patients not fleeced over PPEs?||MUMBAI: Are there regulations to ensure that private hospitals and nursing homes don’t overcharge patients for personal protection equipment (PPE) kits amid the coronavirus pandemic, the Bombay high court asked the state government on Tuesday. “The concern expressed is that patients should not be fleeced during the pandemic,” said Chief Justice Dipankar Datta, who along with Justice Sarang Kotwal, heard a public interest litigation by advocate Abhijit Mangade. Citing his experience, Mangade alleged that private hospitals are charging patients for PPE kits above the procurement rates and urged the HC to cap the charges. Mangade’s mother, a non-Covid patient, was admitted at Jupiter Hospital in Thane on June 21. Six days later, he was issued a bill of Rs 72,000 for PPE kits, including gloves. Mangade’s PIL also mentioned how Punamiya Hospital in Dadar had charged a patient Rs 16,500 for PPE kits for three days. Mangade argued that the BMC has capped the price of PPE kits and issued a circular listing 44 vendors from whom they can be bought. “My grievance is not on the medical line of treatment, but on overcharging of PPE kits,” he added. The CJ pointed out that a box of gloves may be used for other patients too. “The hospital would be profiteering by charging from two different patients. Is there a machinery to regulate it?” While no advocate appeared for Jupiter Hospital, advocate Ish Jain, representing Punamiya Hospital, said it’s small hospital and 80% beds are reserved for BMC. Recalling an earlier PIL where the state had said that often doctors wear PPE suits for several hours as they don’t get time to remove them even to eat meals, Jain pointed out that the Dadar hospital also has non-Covid patients and hence it’s risky to wear the same suit. He said seven of the 30 staffers including a doctor, a nurse and an ECG operator were infected. When asked about other private hospitals, assistant government pleader Nisha Mehra said a May 21 circular regulates the treatment charges and sought time to file a reply on the current status. Noting that “the issue raised by PIL deserves consideration”, the bench posted the next hearing on August 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-are-there-checks-to-ensure-patients-not-fleeced-over-ppes/articleshow/77229231.cms||Rosy Sequeira
July 29, 2020||Lucknow||Case surge dips a bit, ADG & wife test +ve||Lucknow: The number of new Covid cases dipped for the second day in a row as 247 persons tested positive on Tuesday, taking the city’s tally to 6,867. Additional director general of police, economic offences wing (EOW), his wife and 12 cops were among those found infected. The EOW office on the fifth floor of UP Police headquarters was closed for 48 hours for sanitisation, said director general (EOW), R P Singh. Earlier, offices of Anti-Corruption Organisation and Government Railway Police in the building had been closed after staff was found positive. The 12 infected cops are of Aashiana police station — a sub-inspector and 11 constables including two women. Overall, about 100 police personnel have been diagnosed with Covid-19 so far. Eight employees at BKT sub-divisional magistrate’s office and two LMC employees posted in its zone 5 and 2 offices also tested positive. So far, 16 LMC staff members have been infected, while one succumbed. Municipal commissioner Indramani Tripathi said LMC organised camps for testing of about 400 employees on Tuesday through antigen method. Those who test positive will be home quarantined and their samples will be sent for confirmatory RT-PCR test. He denied social media reports of 176 employees testing positive. Area-wise Indira Nagar recorded highest 15 cases, followed by Gomtinagar 14, Naka, Thakurganj, Vikasnagar and Krishnanagar 10 each, Hazratganj nine, Talkatora and Jankipuram eight each, Husainganj seven, Mahanagar and BKT six each and Sadatganj, Chowk and Aliganj five each. The number of new cases dipped, but still remained over 200. In fact, 5,795 cases have been reported in July, including 2,300 over the week. The active patients rose to 3,716 as 25 patients were discharged, taking total recoveries to 3,068.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/case-surge-dips-a-bit-adg-wife-test-ve/articleshow/77230150.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Govt teachers’ YouTube channel a big hit with students, parents||Visakhapatnam: A group of government teachers from Kadiri of Anantapur district is leveraging Youtube to teach students confined to their homes due to the ongoing Covid-19 crisis. They are holding classes for high school students through their YouTube channel ‘KVS Guru’. The unique feature of the channel is the recreation of the classroom experience through a variety of open-source softwares and hardwares. Vajra Narasimha Reddy, headmaster of Kadiri Upper Primary School and national best teacher in ICT (information and communications technology) category in 2017, conceptualised the idea and joined hands with his colleagues Sankar Narayana Reddy and Kiran Kumar. “We at, KVS Guru, are trying to meet the teaching-learning needs of the students during these trying times. The channel started on April 27 and it has already garnered more than 8.15 lakh views. Several like-minded teachers joined our efforts as it involves experts of all subjects. Every crisis brings equal opportunities and we are all happy to see all these teachers, parents and students supporting our initiative,” said Vajra Narasimha, Sankar and Kiran. The trio, who spend about 12 hours a day on the video lessons, added that the duration of a video for class IX and X is around 45 minutes in adherence to the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) guidelines.” While four classes can be conducted for these two classes, only two classes are allowed for classes VI to VIIII. Now, we are planning to take the initiative forward by offering lessons to the primary classes,” said Vajra Narasimha, Sankar and Kiran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-teachers-youtube-channel-a-big-hit-with-students-parents/articleshow/77226252.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
July 29, 2020||Mumbai||Disclosing names of Covid-19 positive patients involves risk of ostracisation, says high court||The Bombay high court on Tuesday questioned whether disclosing names of Covid-19 positive patients would serve any purpose and said instead “there is always a risk of ostracisation.” The HC bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Sarang Kotwal was hearing a public interest litigation by a law student,Vaishnavi Gholave, and a Solapur farmer, Mahesh Gadekar, which sought disclosure of patients’ names contenting that it would enable contact tracing. Through lawyers Yashodeep Deshmukh and Vinod Sangvikar, they wanted to raise the issue of public health taking precedence over right to privacy. The bench, however, wondered what purpose would be served by revealing names and said if one takes all necessary precautions, he need not worry about getting infected. “It all depends on each person,” said the bench, adding that after all taking care of oneself is in his own hands and said people could try to “avoid chit chatting…especially congregations”. People “need to be more cautious, wear mask, face shield and use sanitiser and keep washing their hands,” said the bench. One thing which a person can do is take proper care and precaution to stay away from infection, was the court’s oral advice. The Centre, through additional solicitor general Anil Singh, opposed the PIL and cited judgments of Madhya Pradesh, Orissa and Madras high courts refusing relief in similar pleas for revealing patients’ names. The Madras HC had, while dismissing a petition in April, said that revealing identities could “lead to law and order and public order problem, apart from the social stigma, sometimes may lead to excommunication also”. The Madhya Pradesh HC had on May 28 dismissed a similar PIL as withdrawn after observing that the PIL “runs contrary to public interest” and was inclined impose costs of Rs 25000 on the petitioner who then decided to withdraw. An advisory by the MP government which advised not to reveal identity of those who test positive for Covid-19 or are under quarantine is “in larger public interest and to prevent chaos”, also to prevent those who tested positive “from public wrath’’, the MP high court had said. The HC gave the petitioners’ counsel time to study these judgments and posted the matter to Fridayfor further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/disclosing-names-of-covid-19-positive-patients-involves-risk-of-ostracisation-says-high-court/articleshow/77229330.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Assembly bypolls may be postponed in Gujarat||GANDHINAGAR: By-elections for the eight assembly seats, scheduled to be held before September 14, could be delayed by few months because of the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak. The state government is of the view that conducting the polls during the pandemic outbreak is not advisable and is likely to request the Election Commission of India (ECI) to postpone the by-elections until the pandemic is brought under control.  By-polls of eight assembly seats - Dangs, Karjan, Morbi, Limdi, Abdasa, Gadhada, Kaprada and Dhari are to be held before September 14.“The government may request the ECI to postpone the by-elections . The pandemic is spreading in places where by-polls are to be held. Field level officers are not keen to go on election duty as several officials and teachers have tested positive ,” the sources said. “The state government presented a report before the ECI and said conducting the by-polls on schedule will be a challenging task,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/assembly-bypolls-may-be-postponed/articleshow/77229306.cms||Kapil Dave
July 29, 2020||Goa||Paper row: Four teachers barred from exam work in Goa||PANAJI: Four teachers involved in setting the controversial question paper for the Class X English board exam have been found guilty of not adhering to the paper setting rules. They have been debarred from being engaged for any confidential exam-related work of the Goa board chairman Ramkrishna Samant said on Tuesday. “We have debarred them from board work. We have taken the decision and conveyed it to the teachers. As per the inquiry committee, they were (found guilty),” Samant told reporters.  The teachers are debarred from all exam-related work, including supervision at the public exam, he said. Among the four teachers, one is from a government school and has been issued a memo by the directorate. In the case of the remaining three, who are employees of aided schools, the directorate had issued notices to the management asking them to initiate action against the teachers. The English subject paper, answered by students on May 23, stirred a controversy after one grammar-related question went viral on social media. The contentious question featured a conversation between two friends where one seems to suggest to the other that opting for Portuguese citizenship is a good choice. It includes the friend stating that it is difficult to land a job in Goa without bribery or use of influence. Following widespread criticism, the board set up an independent committee to inquire into the matter. On June 19, the board chairman had said that prima facie fault has been found in the paper’s content by the inquiry committee. The board’s committee had questioned all the paper setters involved, including the head of the paper setting panel for the subject.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/paper-row-four-teachers-barred-from-exam-work/articleshow/77230181.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Accused in 17 Kapu agitation cases get relief||Vijayawada: The state government has issued an order to withdraw prosecution of the accused in 17 cases registered in connection with Kapu reservation agitation in Tuni. Home secretary Kumar Vishwajeet issued the order directing the DGP to instruct the authority concerned to do the same. The GO also mentions that orders were issued on December 17 to withdraw the cases registered in connection with the protests at Tuni. “The government hereby decided to withdraw the prosecutions against the accused in seventeen (17) cases registered in connection with the Kapu Reservation agitation in Tuni, East Godavari District and direct the Director General of Police... to instruct the authority concerned for withdrawal of prosecutions...” the GO reads. Consequently, prosecution of the accused in 51 out of 69 cases have been withdrawn through a GO issued in March 2020. The cases were registered after thousands of people who attended the Kapu Aikya Gharjana at Tuni led by Kapu leader and former minister Mudragada Padmanabham on January 31, 2016. Violence erupted after several protestors allegedly halted the Ratnachal Express heading from Vizag to Vijayawada and later they set fire to the bogies of the train at Tuni station. Under the TDP regime, cases were registered under Criminal Law Amendment Act 1932 and Prevention of Damage of Public Property Act, 1984 and other relevant sections of IPC. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/accused-in-17-kapu-agitation-cases-get-relief/articleshow/77226279.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka likely to slide from top spot in Covid-19 reporting||BENGALURU: Going by the state of affairs in Bengaluru Urban, Karnataka, which was the top state in Covid-19 data reporting till June 1, might go downhill in the rankings if there is another analysis. On July 21, a Stanford University research study compared the health reportage of 29 states in India, based on how each had been sharing data and releasing analysis of the pandemic. The study suggested the key components of managing Covid-19 were public awareness and trust in the government. And this was in turn critically dependent on timely and accessible dissemination of Covid data by the government. At the top was Karnataka, with a score of 0.6, based on availability of data, their accessibility and granularity in providing the smallest details of virus progression. This data comparison, though, was for the period between May 18 and June 1. Most experts within and outside the government believe since then, Karnataka has been facing a serious data compilation crisis, as the authorities are still unable to trace more than 3,000 missing Covid-positive patients. This is also largely happening due to lack of coordination with the Covid war room meant to gather data. Things have come to such a pass that the medical education minister, who is in charge of the Covid-19 task force in Bengaluru, hasn’t been able to provide an accurate and daily data update. “There has been a serious gap in handling data reportage and analysis by the government,” said senior officials privy to the war room happenings. While the government was able to compare, analyse and inform people about the situation in 29 districts — be it related to testing, bed allotment and movement, death rate, contact tracing, home quarantine, etc., — the same could not be done for Bengaluru Urban, which has the highest number of positive cases. Till June 1, when the study was conducted by the Stanford researchers, cases in Karnataka and Bengaluru were traceable and manageable. However, post Unlock 1.0, which came into effect from June 8, cases started climbing and the government began facing the tough task of compiling data and analysing the same. “With the stigma associated with Covid-19, most do not want to reveal their details. They give wrong phone numbers and sketchy personal information. It has become increasingly tough for people on the ground to collate data and analyse them,” said multiple IAS officers deputed to fight the pandemic. Add to this, the change of BBMP chief and decentralisation of Covid management have meant that none in the government has been able to give a clear picture. On the other end, regular health briefing by the state started to stutter after political one-upmanship within the government and “other commitments” began taking precedence. Medical education and Covid-19 minister K Sudhakar, despite being asked to brief the media, and in turn allay the concerns of the common man, has been missing his schedule either due to meetings or prior commitments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/after-securing-top-spot-in-covid-19-reporting-ktaka-likely-to-slide/articleshow/77226747.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
July 29, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government to ramp up RT-PCR testing on HC directions||NEW DELHI: Authorities in different districts of the capital are going to put stress on RT-PCR tests in the wake of Delhi high court asking the Delhi government why it is not ramping up the gold standard test as per the ICMR guidelines. A senior official in the directorate general health services, Dr Nutan Mundeja, said that there is a standing instruction to all the districts to conduct as many RT-PCR tests as possible under the guidelines for Covid-19 testing. Delhi has been recently conducting only 50% of its capacity of 11,000 RT-PCR tests per day. The combined capacity of the private sector and public sector laboratories in Delhi is 54 and approximately 11,000 tests through RT-PCR can be conducted in a day. The government has conducted less than 6,000 RT-PCR tests daily between July 15 and July 23. Sources in different districts said that the testing centres would now be asked to carry out more RT-PCR tests. “Since RT-PCR tests involve a process, which is not as easy as the rapid antigen tests, the people on the ground tend to prefer antigen tests. Also, the samples have to be sent to the labs for the RT-PCR tests, while the antigen tests give result in a short period of time,” said sources. Dr Niraj Roy, surveillance officer of West district, said the district has planned to conduct more RT-PCR tests, which give more reliable outcome. “Around 50 dispensaries are located in the district,” added Dr Roy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-to-ramp-up-rt-pcr-testing-on-hc-directions/articleshow/77229327.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: No foul but footballers pay Covid penalty||VADODARA: While he dribbled the ball on the field five years ago, he concentrated hard on his passing accuracy — a skill that helped Akash Jadhav net the perfect goal. Today it helps the national footballer tackle even the most turbulent times while trying to dribble his life through the demanding lanes of existential crisis. A qualified football coach who once played in Santosh Trophy, a national football tournament, today Yadav ekes a living as a taxi driver after Covid pulled the red card on him. “I was working as a football coach in a school before the lockdown happened. After schools shut down, I lost my job and had to sit at home for some time. With lockdown in force, there was little I could do with my skill sets to earn money. I, therefore, picked up odd jobs, like distributing milk pouches, to make ends meet,” Akash told TOI. But the measly earnings could hardly make ends meet for the 32-year-old. “When the lockdown eased, I began working as a driver, offering my services to anyone wanting to travel outside the city. But this too barely helps meet our monthly expenses. I am now looking for some regular job,” said Akash, who has two kids. There was sadness in his voice when he added, “Being a qualified coach and a national football player, I never thought I would have to take up such jobs for survival.” But he isn’t the only national footballer struggling to survive. Stephen Fernandez, a 26-year-old goalkeeper who has played in the prestigious Santosh Trophy, is now a provision store worker for the past few months. “With schools closed, sports coaches have become jobless. I was also asked to leave and our salaries too stopped. After spending some time at home, I decided to work in a provision store near my home,” Stephen said. “Having spent my life on the football field, working in a store is tough — but one has to earn to survive,” Stephen added. Baroda District Football Association (BDFA), secretary, Sandip Desai, said, “In these troubled times, football coaches and players are facing a tough time as their expertise is not getting them gainful means. Hence the corporate sector or the government should come forward and support them by offering jobs in their area of interest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/no-foul-but-footballers-pay-covid-penalty/articleshow/77227800.cms||Tushar Tere
July 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Jaganmohan Reddy to launch ‘Rachabanda’ programme after normalcy returns||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy will launch his mass contact programme Rachabanda once the Covid-19 situation improves in the state. The programme was initially launched by Jagan’s father and former chief minister Y S Rajasekhara Reddy. He died in a helicopter crash on September 2, 2009, while he was on his way to attend a ‘rachabanda’ in Chittoor district. Jagan wanted to relaunch the programme in September last year, but could not due to various reasons. The chief minister, who addressed district collectors through video conference from his Tadepalli camp office on Tuesday, asked them to attend to grievances of people on a regular basis. “Each and every complaint of people should be responded to,” he said. He said he would take the feedback from people through Rachabanda programme on Spandana, the government’s grievances redressal programme. He wanted officials to ensure that the administration is answerable to people and there is transparency in the delivery mechanism. Referring to the impending distribution of 30 lakh house sites to eligible beneficiaries on August 15, the chief minister told officials to complete plantation at the house sites before they are given to people. He also asked them to identify new sand reaches and places to set up stock points to avoid delay in sand supply. He also asked them to identify suitable land for the proposed medical colleges. On Nadu-Nedu programme, the chief minister asked the collectors to complete the work by August 31 as the schools are scheduled to reopen on September 5. The CM also told officials to look into the complaints of farmers and tenant farmers. “The Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) should be answerable to the farmers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-to-launch-rachabanda-prog-after-normalcy-returns/articleshow/77226299.cms||Gopi Dara
July 29, 2020||Kolhapur||Local committees to decide home isolation for asymptomatic patients||Kolhapur: The district health administration on Tuesday issued a detailed standing operating procedure (SOP) for asymptomatic patients opting for home quarantine after testing positive for Covid-19. As per the guidelines issued, a reference letter of the local committee — comprising corporators and village panchayat members — will now be necessary for those choosing to stay under home quarantine. The letter is necessary to check whether the patient has a separate room attached with toilet and bathroom along with a family member that can take care of them. Yogesh Sale, district health officer, said, “Detailed guidelines have been provided to the local bodies. Only those having no symptoms will be given home isolation. The person will not just be tested for Covid-19 but for other things like blood pressure, diabetes and lung diseases. The local committees will have to check whether the patient can isolate himself from his family members in a separate room. The family members should stay in touch with the local committee members as well as the doctors. The doctors will call the home isolated patients twice a day and the ground staff will visit their homes and check their oxygen levels with the help of pulse oximeters.” He added, “If the committee find that the home isolation is no suitable for the patient, then the patient will be admitted to a Covid care centre. The doctors can release the home isolated patient only after he or she does not show any symptoms for three straight days. No further testing will be done, instead the patient will be asked to isolate himself at home for seven more days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/local-committees-to-decide-home-isolation-for-asymptomatic-patients/articleshow/77226308.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Served poor quality food with insects, say KGMU doctors||LUCKNOW: The resident doctors on duty in the Covid ward of King George’s Medical University (KGMU) have complained to authorities about “poor quality of food, with insects larvae” being provided to them. The Resident Doctors’ Welfare Association (RDWA) submitted a written complaint to the vice-chancellor on Tuesday alleging ‘apathetic attitude’ towards corona warriors. Some resident doctors shared a copy of the complaint with photographs of food on social media. KGMU administration denied allegations but said the complaint will be investigated. “For the past few days, some resident doctors on Covid duty had posted complaints on our social media group. So, the association wrote to the vice-chancellor,” said RDWA general secretary Dr Saurabh Srivastav. “It is inhuman to treat frontline healthcare warriors with such poor facilities when governments world over are doing so much for their well being,” the RDWA said in the letter. However, KGMU spokesperson Dr Sudhir Singh said, “KGMU is providing good quality food to all doctors and employees on Covid duty. They have also been given accommodation in guest houses and hostels. Since a complaint has been filed, it will be probe and strict action taken if it is found true.” A member of the team currently posted in the university’s covid ward, however, told TOI that the accommodation given to them in the Infectious Disease Building lacks proper ventilation and infrastructure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/served-poor-quality-food-with-insects-say-kgmu-doctors/articleshow/77230179.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Goa||During pandemic, 92.7% pass Goa board’s Class X exams||PANAJI: The spike in the Class X pass percentage continued in 2020 with 92.7% students clearing the exams of the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education. This is despite the exams being held in the midst of a pandemic from May 21 to June 6. It is for the fifth time in six years that the pass percentage has improved, with 7% more students passing Class X this year as against 2015. Last year, 92.5% had cleared the Class X exams. And it was not just quantity, the highest scores by students also improved in all subjects in 2020. Also, nearly 70% of the students that appeared for the Class X Goa board exams either passed it with a distinction or a first class. This year, 18,939 students appeared for the exam, and of these, 17,554 cleared it. Of the girls that appeared for the exam, 8,973 or 93.3% cleared the exam. Among the boys, 8,581 or 92% passed Class X. Goa board was probably among the first state boards to conduct the Class X exams during the pandemic. Goa board officials as well as other educationists said that a steady improvement in performance at public exams is a trend seen by all boards nationally. “Over the years the board has introduced many schemes like internal marks, sports marks, grace marks. This is helping improve the pass percentage But this is a trend seen in other states as well,” board chairman Ramkrishna Samant said. Former Goa board chairman Jose Remedios Rebello said that the improvement in pass percentage began to show more prominently from 2015. The year coincided with then board’s decision to honour schools, which not only had 100% pass percentage, but also those who saw over 95% of its students clear the exam. “The trend will only go up now. It is seen nationally that schools are trying more and students are getting more competitive. Every parent is more closely monitoring the child’s performance. Also, in recent years, it is seen that schools begin preparing students for the board exams from April itself and do not wait for school reopening in June,” said Rebello. He said that the inclusion of internal marks component has also helped better reflect the students’ performance. In 2020, 118 schools – 20 more than 2019 – recorded cent percent results. These 118 schools included 35 government schools. “There are around 70 government high schools. This means that 50% have cent percent passing,” said Samant. Rebello said that the introduction of National Skills Qualification Framework (NSQF) some years ago has helped achieve this. Under NSQF, students can opt for an additional subject and they have to clear any six to pass Class X. Around 89 high schools offer NSQF subjects and this year as many as 1,708 students cleared Class X with the help of the scheme. The Goa board data shows that at the Class X 2020 exam only 8.8% students scraped through the exam with a pass class. Having been held during a pandemic, the exam took place through 29 centres and an increased number of 173 sub-centres to ensure social distancing. Of these, four sub-centres were at the Maharashtra border and two at the Karnataka border to accommodate students from these areas who attend school in Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/during-pandemic-92-7-pass-goa-boards-class-x-exams/articleshow/77230199.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
July 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Vizag pharmacy sells booze, owner held||VISAKHAPATNAM: Following complaints by residents, the owner of a pharmacy in Visakhapatnam was arrested recently for selling liquor at his shop.The accused, identified as Kandregula Nookaraju, owns RK Medicals in Lakshmipuram Colony in Vadlapudi area and is alleged to have been selling liquor after 7pm over the past few weeks. Liquor shops in Andhra Pradesh currently close at 7pm. According to the police, the accused used to procure bottles from nearby liquor stores before 7pm and sell them at a premium late into the night. “He bought quarter bottles worth Rs 170 and sold them for Rs 250,” said a police constable. Police further said that the accused would ask unemployed youngsters in the area to buy the bottles for him and offer them a cut. Cops said that these belt shops are mushrooming across the city including Kalikanagar, Ramnagar, Appanna Colony and in parts of Gajuwaka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vizag-pharmacy-sells-booze-owner-held/articleshow/77226311.cms||Siva G
July 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||GU to restart Shodhan UPSC Coaching Centre||Ahmedabad: After remaining shut for almost a decade, the Shodhan UPSC Coaching Centre will begin admissions this year. For this, the Gujarat University has roped in Jain International Organization (JIO) to provide students of Gujarat an opportunity to become IAS/IPS officials. The institute aims to enroll 200 students this year by conducting an entrance exam. Shodhan UPSC Coaching Centre will be the second such institute in Gujarat after Sardar Patel Institute of Public Administration (SPIPA). The institute was forced to close down about a decade ago after it failed to find the required faculty members. The entrance exam for availing admission to this institute will be of 200 marks and students who have appeared for the final year of graduation or have a higher degree will be eligible. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gu-to-restart-shodhan-upsc-coaching-centre/articleshow/77229313.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Students gather in AMC school, principal suspended||Ahmedabad: When schools across India are shut due to Covid, a school run by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation in Gulbai Tekra seems to have endangered the lives of its students. They were seen attending classroom studies on Tuesday. The authorities quickly suspended the principal and issued a show-cause notice to four teachers. The teachers were asked to explain why they should not meet the same fate as their boss. Also, an inquiry committee has been set up by the authorities. Some parents claimed that the students had been called to the school to take written exams. L D Desai, the administrator of the school ward, rubbished that claim and said that the unit tests are to be begin from July 29. He said that the students have to take the tests from their homes. Asked why the students had gathered in the class, Desai said that they had come to clear some doubts regarding the ‘home learning sessions’. Schools have been shut down since March due to the coronavirus pandemic and students have been promoted, en masse for 2019-20 academic year. Schools will have to make arrangements for the free distribution of education materials to students who are entitled to them, said sources. This has to be done keeping in mind various physical distancing norms. Various mediums like mobile applications, television programmes, and online education platforms are to be used for home learning, according to sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/students-gather-in-amc-school-principal-suspended/articleshow/77229334.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Chennai||Rain makes a splash on Chennai’s outskirts||CHENNAI: Dark, low-hanging clouds have brought thunderstorms to Chennai outskirts and broken a 66-year-old record at Meenambakkam weather station — that of the highest rainfall in July — but people living in the core city are still waiting for a good spell of rain. Tuesday was no different. While residents wonder why, meteorologists blame it on the climatology. N Puviarasan, director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, IMD said wind convergence, the meeting of sea and land breezes, which results in convective activity bringing rainfall, occurs mostly away from the coast. “Usually the convergence happens some 20km or 30km from the coast, bringing rainfall to the interiors, only sometimes moving towards city core areas. This is why the recent rainfall has been more in the interior areas,” he said. From July 1 to 27, Nungambakkam weather station recorded 51mm of rain while Meenambakkam recorded 271mm, sneaking past the previous record of 266mm in July 1954 after a 15mm spell on July 20. Between June 1 and July 27, Nungambakkam recorded 92mm and Meenambakkam 288mm. While the Chennai subdivision has a deficit of 2% from June 1 to July 28, the heavy rainfall on Tuesday that left 10mm in Nungambakkam and 20mm in Meenambakkam may have improved the rainfall records for the city. “For the next three days, we have chances of good rainfall before monsoon picks up on the west coast over Mumbai and Gujarat in the first week of August,” an IMD official said. A cyclonic circulation lying over southeast and adjoining southwest Bay of Bengal also influenced the wind convergence on Tuesday evening, which saw rainfall across many areas at the same time, one of the few instances this season. Rain lashed southern suburbs including Chromepet, Tambaram, Perungalathur and core city localities such as Purasaiwalkam, T Nagar, Choolaimedu, Aminjikarai, Koyambedu, Kodambakkam, MMDA Colony, Nungambakkam, Pattalam, Otteri, Pulianthope, Choolai and Vyasarpadi. But areas such as Park Town, Royapuram and Thiruvottiyur that are closer to the sea remained largely cloudy and dry. Rainfall in the suburbs has nevertheless improved storage in the reservoirs as well groundwater levels in the city. Weather blogger Pradeep John said Tiruttani, upstream of Poondi reservoir, received 359.8mm rainfall since June 1, an excess of 48%. “Even areas such as Chembarambakamm and Red Hills recorded good rainfall, nearly 300mm for July, which is very rare,” he said. The combined storage in the city’s four reservoirs and Veeranam is now at 48%. As of July 27, catchment areas in Tiruvallur had 8% and Kancheeipuram 45% excess rainfall. The spells have also improved groundwater levels both in the city and neighbouring districts. Hydrogeologists said Chennai groundwater has shown a rise of one to 2.5metres compared to July 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rain-makes-a-splash-on-chennais-outskirts/articleshow/77229319.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Logistics sector demands industry status from govt||In a bid to boost growth, the logistics sector is seeking industry status from the Andhra Pradesh government. This will not only help logistics players grow their business but also lead to generation of higher local employment as it’s a labour intensive sector, said experts. “The government has to give the logistics sector industry status. The Uttar Pradesh government has already given it. If we are granted industry status, it will offer many advantages such as in the area of land conversion, warehouse construction and property taxes, among others. The other area is infrastructure development,” G Sambasiva Rao, MD, Sravan Shipping Services Pvt Ltd, said at the session on ‘Ports, shipping & logistics: Navigating choppy waters in Covid times’ as part of ‘TOI’s Reboot Andhra Pradesh: Making AP Future Positive’ conclave, supported by RINL, in association with Visakhapatnam Special Economic Zone, Eastern Power Distribution Company of Andhra Pradesh, Coastal Local Area Bank and TNR Talent High School. Krishna GV Giri, executive vice-chairman of AP Economic Development Board (APEDB), mooted port-led industrialisation. “If you take the GVA (gross value added), it is Rs 37,000 per head for the entire country, Rs 33,000 for AP, while for Gujarat it is Rs 1,11,000 per head because they have some fantastic ports which led to the growth of business and industries around it. We are not just planning ports but are also looking at industrial zones around it,” he said. While creation of infrastructure takes time, in the near term, adoption of digital technologies can help these sectors. Saurabh Kumar, CEO, GMR Cargo & national board member, Air Cargo Forum India (AFCI), said adoption of tech will give these sectors visibility and also ensure economies of scale. Shivaprasad Raja, principal, The Boston Consulting Group (BCG), too felt that more companies are willing to up their tech platform spend due to the pandemic.  Anil Narayanan, deputy COO, Visakha Container Terminal Pvt Ltd, said after geopolitical tension between India and China increased recently, there has been minute scrutiny by Chinese authorities in clearing Indian goods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/logistics-sector-demands-industry-status-from-govt/articleshow/77228038.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Woman kills 3-yr-old son, self||Hyderabad: In a shocking incident, G Mamatha, a housewife, ended her life after killing her three-year-old son at their house in LB Nagar on Monday night. On Monday night, 26-year-old Mamatha jumped to death from their three-storied building in Satavahana Colony after fatally injuring her son. “Mamatha slit her son’s wrist. The boy was found lying unconscious on the bed by his father Shankaraiah at around 10 pm. Mamatha was not in the house at that time and Shankaraiah rushed the boy to a nearby hospital. The boy succumbed a few hours later,” said LB Nagar inspector Ashok Reddy. “The boy was suffering from from eyesight related problems. Shankaraiah spent over Rs 20 lakh for medical treatment of his son but there was no improvement. The boy’s mental growth also suffered causing trauma to his parents,” the inspector said. After closing his shop, Shankaraiah returned home with an employee, Vikas Goud. Shankaraiah found his son lying on the bed with an injury on the right wrist. Shankaraiah immediately rushed the boy to hospital. “At 11 pm, Vikas went to the terrace and saw Mamatha. When he called her, she got up and jumped from the terrace. She died on the spot. Riyansh also succumbed to his injuries. ,” the inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-kills-3-yr-old-son-self/articleshow/77230193.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Meerut||Husband & in-laws arrested for killing woman for dowry & putting her body in suitcase||MEERUT: Police in UP's Bulandshahr on Tuesday arrested the husband and parents-in-law of the woman whose body was found stuffed in a suitcase about 70km away in Ghaziabad on Monday morning. Warisha Ali, 20, had gone missing on July 25. Fearing the worst, her parents had rushed to police claiming that she might have been killed for dowry. And she was, indeed. Warisha, a resident of Aligarh, got married to Aamir on June 1 and happily moved into his house in Bulandshahr. “That was the last time I saw her happy,” her mother said, adding she was constantly being harassed for dowry. After the body was recovered, and identified, police in Bulandshahr registered an FIR against Warisha’s husband Aamir and his parents for dowry killing. The case was filed at the city's Kotwali police station on Tuesday afternoon. “The deceased’s husband and her in-laws have been arrested. Further probe is on,” Santosh Kumar, Bulandshahr’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) said. Interestingly, when Warisha went missing on July 25, Aamir had approached police and filed a complaint. For Ghaziabad Police, establishing the woman’s identity was also an uphill task. They shared her photograph and details on hundreds of WhatsApp groups and also contacted several police stations in neighbouring districts and states. Finally, one of Warisha’s uncles in Delhi’s Uttam Nagar identified her from the photo and alerted the police and family. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Ghaziabad, Kalanidhi Naithani, said, “The picture and identification details of the deceased were shared on several social media platforms and WhatsApp groups. One of her relatives in Delhi identified her.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/husband-in-laws-arrested-for-killing-woman-for-dowry-putting-her-body-in-suitcase/articleshow/77226324.cms||Piyush Rai
July 29, 2020||India||PM Modi to inaugurate Mauritius SC building||NEW DELHI: PM Narendra Modi and his Mauritius counterpart Pravind Jugnauth will jointly inaugurate the new Supreme Court building of Mauritius on Thursday, the government announced in a statement. The inauguration is scheduled to take place through video-conference in presence of senior members of judiciary from Mauritius and other dignitaries from both the countries. “The building has been constructed with Indian grant assistance and will be the first India assisted infrastructure project within the capital city of Port Louis,” said the government. India in recent times has emerged as one of the largest trading partners and exporter of goods and services to the strategically located country in the Indian Ocean. The government said the successful and timely completion of India assisted “high quality infrastructure projects” in Mauritius will also create greater opportunities for Indian companies in Mauritius and in the region. “The new Supreme Court Building will be an important landmark in the city center symbolising the strong bilateral partnership between the two countries,” it said, adding that the project had been completed in time and below expected costs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-mauritius-sc-building/articleshow/77231503.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Trichy||Some grocery shops in Trichy volunteer to shut at 2pm||Trichy: In the view of surging Covid-19 cases in Trichy, a grocery shop owners association in the city has volunteered to observe partial shutdown from July 28. Trichy maligai, mandi, oil and jaggery, sugar traders association has announced that they will restrict their business hours between 6 am and 2 pm. Around 130 grocery shops including wholesale and retail establishments affiliated to the association and located across Big Bazaar street, Gandhi Market, Palakkarai and Thanjavur main road will adhere to the decision. Although the state government has allowed shops selling essential commodities to remain open till 8 pm amid the lockdown, the traders preferred a partial lockdown. The association opined that their move to opt for partial lockdown will encourage other traders associations to follow the suit. “Now all parts of Trichy city have reported a Covid-19 positive case. The infection is continuing to surge, so the decision to restrict the working hours was taken to limit the public movement and contain the spread,” S Sellan, secretary of the association said.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/some-grocery-shops-in-trichy-volunteer-to-shut-at-2pm/articleshow/77230225.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Lucknow||LDA moots OTS scheme for home allottees||Lucknow: After facing a total loss of Rs 41 crore since the lockdown till now, cash-crunched Lucknow Development Authority (LDA) has proposed one time settlement (OTS) scheme for its home allottees to shore up revenue. LDA officials said the allottees, who have not paid their installments, will get a discount of 10% besides waiver on fine on the pending amount. There are more than 26,000 defaulters on the list who have not paid the EMIs for the past four months, officials added. LDA finance controller Rajeev Kumar Singh said that a proposal for implementing the OTS scheme has been sent to the state government for approval. “We have incurred loss of over Rs 41 crore due to Covid-19 pandemic. The OTS scheme will attract defaulters to pay the pending amount, else we will have to take strict action against them,” he added. As per LDA records, nearly 50% of the revenue comes from the sale of housing and commercial units, while around Rs 8 crore is generated through ticketing at parks under its jurisdiction and Rs 10 crore from parking slots. Other source of revenue generation for LDA are map layout approval (Rs 6 crore), rent from housing and commercial properties (Rs 23 crore), and monetary penalty imposed on violation of construction norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lda-moots-ots-scheme-for-home-allottees/articleshow/77230190.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Meerut||UP’s BJP MLA claims threat to life from gangster Sunil Rathi lodged in Tihar, seeks more security||MEERUT: An MLA of the ruling BJP in UP’s Baghpat has sought additional security claiming threat to his life from notorious criminal Sunil Rathi who is lodged in Delhi’s Tihar Prison. Yogesh Dhama, the MLA from Baghpat constituency, claimed that a crackdown against illegal sand mining in his region has irked several key aides of the gangster. The MLA’s request came about 20 days after an RLD worker was shot dead in Baghpat over what local police said was a row surrounding transportation of illegally mined sand. MLA Dhama said that he had approached chief minister Yogi Adityanath over the massive illegal sand mining going on in his region, leading to a crackdown. “Illegal mining was going on in Baghpat’s Badrakha area. I had complained about it to the chief minister and told him how local farmers are being harassed by criminals involved in the mining. So a probe was launched and it found my claims to be true. And then a penalty of Rs 4crore was slapped on an aide of Rathi and the mining lease was also cancelled,” Dhama said. “A brick kiln owner was also shot dead by Rathi’s men recently, and I have learnt that his goons are now after me for the complaint about the illicit mining lease,” he said. Due to this crackdown, criminals involved in sand mining have suffered financial losses to the tune of crores of rupees, the MLA claimed. When contacted, Meerut’s inspector general of police (IG) Praveen Triapthi said, “His (Dhama’s) security has been beefed up. I have also directed Baghpat’s superintendent of police (SP) to look into the matter. We are analyzing the threat from all dimensions and a list of his (Rathi’s) associates and supporters is being made. Recently, one of Rathi’s men was held in an encounter. He is accused of killing the RLD worker.” Rathi is also accused of shooting dead another gangster Munna Bajrangi inside Baghpat jail on July 9, 2018. He was later transferred to Tihar on the direction of a local court. Police suspect that he is now operating from the high-security jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/ups-bjp-mla-claims-threat-to-life-from-gangster-sunil-rathi-lodged-in-tihar-seeks-more-security/articleshow/77226328.cms||Piyush Rai
July 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Pandemic spurs changes in food choices, consumption shifts towards healthier diet||The Covid-19 pandemic has forced people to have a relook at their food habits. In the last four-five months, the demand for nutritious food that can help build immunity has risen. This trend offers a good growth potential for the agri and food processing sector in the state, feel experts. “Consumption patterns have undergone a change. There is greater emphasis in western countries on plant-based nutrition rather than animal-based nutrition and I am sure it will come here as well,” V Ram Kaundinya, DG, FSII, said at a session on ‘Agri, Fisheries & Food Processing: Ploughing through and processing Coronavirus challenge’, on the second day of TOI’s ‘Reboot Andhra Pradesh’ conclave, which is supported by RINL, in association with VSEZ, Eastern Power Distribution Company of Andhra Pradesh, Coastal Local Area Bank and TNR Talent High School. Bala Reddy, founder & CEO, Our Food Pvt Ltd, pointed out that in the initial phase of the lockdown, there were many issues with regards to raw material supply but there was pressure from the demand side as well. “Many people started visiting retail outlets and started buying products that are directly sourced from farmers and many customers started buying healthy products, which proved beneficial for farmers ,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/pandemic-spurs-changes-in-food-choices-consumption-shifts-towards-healthier-diet/articleshow/77228054.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Mumbai||At Rs 19,233cr, Maha receives highest GST compensation||Mumbai: For the cash-starved Maharashtra government, the finance ministry’s decision to release Rs 19,233 crore in pending goods and service tax (GST) compensation has come as a huge relief to fight the economic crisis. With the Centre releasing over Rs 1.6 lakh crore as GST compensation to states and Union Territories on Monday, the entire compensation for the financial year 2019-20 has been settled. The highest compensation was given to Maharashtra, followed by Karnataka (Rs 18,628 crore) and Gujarat (Rs 14,801 crore). Last December, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had written to finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman to release GST compensation as early as possible. “While Maharashtra is waiting for its legitimate dues of Rs 15,558 crore from the Centre, it is also suffering due to a shortfall in tax devolution. Timely release of GST compensation and tax devolution amount will help my state manage finances efficiently…as per the CAG report, it is noticed that IGST settlement for many transactions is not happening,” Thackeray had written . He had also pointed out that owing to the slowdown in the economy, there was a shortfall in GST collection compared to the benchmark growth of 14%. “During the current financial year, we have received Rs 5,635 crore as GST compensation for four months, however, Rs 8,611 crore is due up to November 2019,” Thackeray had said. A finance department official, requesting anonymity, said that the Covid-19 lockdown has had an adverse impact on GST collection in Maharashtra, which dropped to Rs 9,000 crore as against the monthly average of Rs 15,500 crore—a shortfall of Rs 6,500 crore. At the national level too, GST collection saw a steady downfall to Rs 1.85 lakh crore in 2020 from Rs 3.14 lakh crore in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/at-rs-19233cr-maha-receives-highest-gst-compensation/articleshow/77229343.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Kolhapur||Monsoon lull halts rice plantation, shadow over ragi, soybean crops||Kolhapur: The dry run of the monsoon for the past week has cast a shadow over the kharif crops. Little showers are expected on July 29 but a further break in the spell is expected till August 2. The latest India Meteorology Department forecast states that Kolhapur district will witness heavy rainfall for five to six days from August 3. However, the week-long pause in the rains has caused worry among farmers. Many rice cultivators have stopped the transplantation of the paddy after the agriculture department informed them about the possible dry spell. District agriculture superintendent Dnyandeo Wakure said, “We are assessing how many farmers and how much area is still to be brought under rice cultivation. Usually by July-end, the rice transplantation is completed. Rice cultivation needs waterlogging in the farms and continuous rainfall. Those having farms near lakes and rivers can easily irrigate their farms for rice cultivation. However, those located farther away have to wait to avoid losses.” Wakure added that crops such as ragi and soybean are in danger due to break in the rainfall. “Farmers, who have taken up these crops in hill slopes with shallow soil, solely depend on the rainfall for the growth. Around 6,500 hectares of ragi crop is in danger,” he said. He added that heavy rains are expected in the first week of August, which will help farmers to resume the activities. So far, around 9,000 mm of rainfall has been recorded during this monsoon season. In last one week, total rainfall in the district was around 700 mm. The dams in the district are filled up to 60% of their capacity. Heavy rainfall warning IMD Mumbai has issued heavy rainfall warning in the districts of Satara and Sangli and Kolhapur on Wednesday. Heavy rainfall is expected in Satara and Sangli districts on Thursday||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/monsoon-lull-halts-rice-plantation-shadow-over-ragi-soybean-crops/articleshow/77226330.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Hyderabad||Suspicious husband stabs wife to death||Hyderabad: Suspecting his wife’s fidelity, a car driver allegedly stabbed her to death at their house in Pahadesharif on Tuesday. The victim, Varalakhsmi, 26, fell in love with cab driver Nagaraju and had married him two years ago, police said. “During the past few months, the marital relationship strained as Nagaraju suspected that his wife was close to other men. He started physically and mentally torturing her,” Pahadesharif inspector S Vishnu Vardhan Reddy said. Family members of Nagaraju and Varalakshmi counselled them four times, hoping to iron out their problems. On Monday night, Nagaraju had an argument with Varalakshmi again on the issue. On Tuesday morning, neighbours noticed the main door of the house was latched from outside. “Varalakshmi normally would get up early in the morning to do household chores. As she did not come out of the house, neighbours became suspicious. They alerted Varalakshmi’s parents, who live nearby,” the inspector said. Family members of Varalakshmi opened the door in the presence of neighbours and found her lying dead in a pool of blood on the floor. “Nagaraju killed her by stabbing her in the throat,” the inspector said. Police formed special teams to nab Nagaraju and a murder case was registered under Section 302 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/suspicious-husband-stabs-wife-to-death/articleshow/77230216.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Bareilly||Corbett tops in tiger count, MP pips K’taka||Dehradun/Pilibhit: Jim Corbett national park in Uttarakhand is the reserve that has the most number of tigers in the country, with 231 of the 2,967 big cats counted for the ‘Status of Tigers, Copredators & Prey in India’ report released by Union forest and environment minister Prakash Javadekar on Tuesday. Corbett’s tiger count has been rising — from 137 in 2006 to 174 in 2010 and 215 in 2014. "We had expected the numbers to be over 250," said director of the reserve, Rahul (who goes by his first name). This time, it is the only reserve with more than 200 tigers and has the highest tiger density in the country, 14. It is followed by Nagarhole (127) and Bandipur (126), both in Karnataka, Bandhavgarh in Madhya Pradesh (MP) and Kaziranga in Assam (104 each). Among states, MP topped the tiger estimation, with 526 (it had 308 last time), going past Karnataka (524 this time, 406 earlier). Uttarakhand remained on the third spot, with 442 tigers, up from 340 previously. The All India Tiger Estimation is undertaken every four years, the latest in 2018. The count in Dudhwa Tiger Reserve, which straddles the India-Nepal border, has also gone up. “It is a splendid increase, from 58 in the last estimation to 82 this time,” said Sanjay Kumar Pathak, field director of the reserve. Pilibhit reserve's tiger population is also up by two to 57. And what used to be a non-tiger zone in Uttar Pradesh, Sohagi Barwa Wildlife Sanctuary in Maharajganj, now has one tiger. In fact, the Shivalik Hills and Gangetic Plains (Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar) have witnessed a significant increase in tiger population, from 485 to 646, in keeping with the national trend (which saw a 33% jump). The Central India & Eastern Ghats belt, which covers eight states, saw the biggest jump, 50%. Four of the country’s 50 reserves — Udnati Sitanadi in Chhattisgarh, Satkosia in Odisha, Mukundra in Rajasthan and Kawal in Telangana — have just one tiger. Qamar Qureishi, senior scientist at the Wildlife Institute of India-Dehradun (WII), which put together the report with the National Tiger Conservation Authority, said some conservation aspects still need to be addressed. “Ecologically sensitive development is what’s needed. A large section depends on nature for livelihood and survival. We have to ensure integrity of all corridors to protect wildlife.” But Mizoram’s Dampa reserve and Bengal’s Buxa lost the 6 tigers they had between them. "Dampa Tiger Reserve is an important cross boundary tiger reserve key for tiger and other wildlife conservation as it provides connectivity to other protected and forested areas. It may be possible to reintroduce tigers in this (region) from the only source in the North-Eastern Hills and Brahmaputra landscapes -- the Kaziranga Tiger Reserve...(but) a proper protection regime and control of insurgency is required before bringing back the tigers," the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/corbett-tops-in-tiger-count-mp-pips-ktaka/articleshow/77226368.cms||Shivani Azad
July 29, 2020||Chennai||Food delivery apps levy ‘bad weather charge’ in Chennai||CHENNAI: The rain in the city over the past month has led to food delivery rates rising, with online food aggregators collecting, alongside regular delivery and distance charges, ‘bad weather’ fees from users. For instance, a customer ordering food for Rs 400 from a restaurant 5km from his/her residence has to pay close to Rs 50 in such ‘fee’ that increases based on distance and weather conditions as well as traffic conditions and seasonal demand.. “I don’t remember paying any additional fee during rain in the past. On Tuesday, I was charged Rs 20 extra,” said Madipakkam resident R Veera, who uses Swiggy for ordering food. Sources in Swiggy said bad weather fee had always been collected from users across the country and that surge pricings can be avoided on attaining ‘super customer’ status that customers can buy for a minimum of Rs Rs 149 for a month. The scheme, temporarily withdrawn a few months ago because of the lockdown, was revived recently, sources said. Zomato, which too collects distance fee, was unavailable for comment. Food aggregators claim additional fee collected is transferred to delivery executives’ accounts to compensate for travelling in tough conditions. Delivery executives admit getting this incentive but say it is delayed at times. “However, more customers tip us than usual. They understand the risk associated with our work and give ₹10-₹20 extra and sometimes even more,” said Dinesh, a delivery man from Velachery. This comes in handy while refilling vehicles’ fuel tanks as petrol price increased more than ₹Rs 10 in two months. Meanwhile, layoffs continue with 350 employees being sacked this week. Earlier, Swiggy, Zomato and other firms together let go off nearly 1,500 employees. Firms claim the industry has recovered only by 50% and this was the final round of restructuring but employees’ salaries have been restored.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/food-delivery-apps-levy-bad-weather-charge/articleshow/77229351.cms||Ram Sundaram
July 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad civic body mulling Covid-19 test for international fliers on arrival||AHMEDABAD: Entry to Ahmedabad city is not without scanning. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation is checking all vehicles from Vadodara and Surat that enter the city and is now exploring the possibility of scanning international passengers as they arrive at the airport. Senior officials said that at present there is no proposal to scan domestic passengers. “These passengers are scanned as they enter the airport at their respective cities so there is no point scanning them here again,” said an official. “We may scan international passengers at the arrival of the airport,” he added. When asked, Rajiv Kumar Gupta, additional chief secretary, forest and environment, who is overall incharge of activities to control spread of Covid-19 pandemic in Ahmedabad, said that the final decision is yet to be taken. The official said that vehicles coming from Surat and Vadodara are being checked before their entry in the city. A senior health officer said that earlier all vehicles coming to the city were being checked and those found Covid-19 positive were being sent back to their original destinations. Now they are being referred to a hospital or covid care centre. The official said that not just private cars and luxury buses, even state transport buses are being stopped and each passenger is being checked as they got down either at Gita Mandir, Naroda or at Ranip. However, the official said that vehicles coming from Saurashtra region are still not checked. The officials said that on an average 1,500 tests are performed at check posts at the highways and at bus stands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-mulling-covid-test-for-intl-fliers-on-arrival/articleshow/77229373.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Nagpur||Jalaj Sharma joins as additional municipal commissioner in NMC||NAGPUR: Jalaj Sharma, IAS officer of 2014 batch, has assumed charge as additional municipal commissioner at Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Thursday. Sharma, who was posted as chief executive officer at Yavatmal Zilla Parishad earlier, will be the third additional municipal commissioner at NMC. Ram Joshi of additional collector rank and Sanjay Nipane of senior chief officer rank are also additional municipal commissioners. A native of Haryana, Sharma will be the second IAS officer in the civic body after municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe. A BTech in computer engineering, Sharma is probably the third IAS officer to join as additional municipal commissioner in NMC after Atul Patne and Ravindra Thakre. He has also worked as subdivisional officer at Jalgaon. He started his service as IRS officer in 2011 and was selected as an IAS officer in 2014.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sharma-joins-as-addl-municipal-commissioner-in-nmc/articleshow/77271704.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 29, 2020||Surat||Ahmedabad civic body mulling Covid-19 test for international fliers on arrival||AHMEDABAD: Entry to Ahmedabad city is not without scanning. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation is checking all vehicles from Vadodara and Surat that enter the city and is now exploring the possibility of scanning international passengers as they arrive at the airport. Senior officials said that at present there is no proposal to scan domestic passengers. “These passengers are scanned as they enter the airport at their respective cities so there is no point scanning them here again,” said an official. “We may scan international passengers at the arrival of the airport,” he added. When asked, Rajiv Kumar Gupta, additional chief secretary, forest and environment, who is overall incharge of activities to control spread of Covid-19 pandemic in Ahmedabad, said that the final decision is yet to be taken. The official said that vehicles coming from Surat and Vadodara are being checked before their entry in the city. A senior health officer said that earlier all vehicles coming to the city were being checked and those found Covid-19 positive were being sent back to their original destinations. Now they are being referred to a hospital or covid care centre. The official said that not just private cars and luxury buses, even state transport buses are being stopped and each passenger is being checked as they got down either at Gita Mandir, Naroda or at Ranip. However, the official said that vehicles coming from Saurashtra region are still not checked. The officials said that on an average 1,500 tests are performed at check posts at the highways and at bus stands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/amc-mulling-covid-test-for-intl-fliers-on-arrival/articleshow/77231871.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Kolhapur||KMC takes action against 200 for not wearing masks, violating distance norm||Kolhapur: On the second day of the easing of lockdown, the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) took action against people found violating Covid-19 safety protocols and rules like not wearing masks, failing to maintain social distance and keeping shops open beyond 6 pm. More than 200 persons were fined for not using masks and ignoring social distancing norm. The KMC staff even distributed masks to senior citizens who did not have the protective gear. The staff imposed a fine of Rs 500 on the shops for not ensuring social distancing on their premises. At many places, the shops were open till 6.30 pm. Local corporators and activists were seen dialling the KMC staff to take action against the owners of such shops. Pandit Pawar, head of anti-encroachment department, said, “We have fined 6 shopowners across the city for not closing their establishments on time. We have noticed that as the deadline approaches, many citizens rush to the shops, and leading to congestion outside.” The district authorities have allowed take-home service of the food. However, home delivery has not been allowed. At several places, barbershops and salons were operating with their shutters down. Pawar said he has received some complaints about salons operating clandestinely and action will be taken against them. Before the 100% lockdown, salons were allowed to operate, however, they are now not allowed to open till July 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-takes-action-against-200-for-not-wearing-masks-violating-distance-norm/articleshow/77226374.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Vadodara||Ahmedabad civic body mulling Covid-19 test for international fliers on arrival||AHMEDABAD: Entry to Ahmedabad city is not without scanning. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation is checking all vehicles from Vadodara and Surat that enter the city and is now exploring the possibility of scanning international passengers as they arrive at the airport. Senior officials said that at present there is no proposal to scan domestic passengers. “These passengers are scanned as they enter the airport at their respective cities so there is no point scanning them here again,” said an official. “We may scan international passengers at the arrival of the airport,” he added. When asked, Rajiv Kumar Gupta, additional chief secretary, forest and environment, who is overall incharge of activities to control spread of Covid-19 pandemic in Ahmedabad, said that the final decision is yet to be taken. The official said that vehicles coming from Surat and Vadodara are being checked before their entry in the city. A senior health officer said that earlier all vehicles coming to the city were being checked and those found Covid-19 positive were being sent back to their original destinations. Now they are being referred to a hospital or covid care centre. The official said that not just private cars and luxury buses, even state transport buses are being stopped and each passenger is being checked as they got down either at Gita Mandir, Naroda or at Ranip. However, the official said that vehicles coming from Saurashtra region are still not checked. The officials said that on an average 1,500 tests are performed at check posts at the highways and at bus stands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/amc-mulling-covid-test-for-intl-fliers-on-arrival/articleshow/77231870.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow municipal corporation fails to meet property tax target for fourth month in a row||LUCKNOW: Development work in the city is likely to take a hit as Lucknow Municipal Corporation has failed to achieve its property tax collection target for the fourth consecutive month in July. LMC suffered a Rs 50-crore loss during the lockdown as its revenue through advertisements, sale of parking lot contracts, ticketing of parks and rent of community/marriage halls dried up. It had to divert the 14th Finance Commission grant meant for various development projects to meet salary expenses. Efforts to ramp up revenue thorough new ways have not materialised yet. The civic body’s failure to meet tax collection target may render a further blow to development activities. LMC’s tax collection target for April, May and June 30 was Rs 17 crore, Rs 10 crore and Rs 42 crore respectively. No collection was done in April and May due to lockdown. In June, about Rs 36 crore was collected—Rs 6 crore less than the target. Till July 25, Rs 15.2 crore was collected—Rs 4.3 crore less than the target. Total tax collection till July 25 has been Rs 37.3 crore (42%) less than the target of Rs 88.5 crore. Municipal commissioner Indramani Tripathi said, “Due to surge in coronavirus cases, our employees are not able to visit areas to collect taxes. I request taxpayers to pay their property tax through the link sent by us on the owner’s mobile number.” However, LMC does not have the contact numbers of around 2 lakh property owners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lmc-fails-to-meet-property-tax-target-for-4th-month-in-a-row/articleshow/77230213.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC wing penalises RGV for putting up film posters in public||HYDERABAD: The GHMC’s Directorate of Enforcement Vigilance and Disaster Management (EVDM) penalised director Ram Gopal Varma for putting up posters of his film in a public space. He was fined Rs 2,000 for every poster put up. The civic body took action, following a post on Twitter which showed ‘Power Star’ movie’s poster at one location in Jubilee Hills. According to regulations, the EVDM department imposed a fine of Rs 4,000 for this. Other violations were found across the city. Authorities sent notices to Ram Gopal Varma’s office. The EVDM department confirmed a total of 31 challans were served on Wednesday worth Rs 84,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-wing-penalises-rgv-for-putting-up-film-posters-in-public/articleshow/77230245.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Delhi||Glass shields at Delhi's IGI Airport for shorter queues||NEW DELHI: Days after media reports of long queues being recorded at Indira Gandhi International Airport with passengers having to wait for 10 to 12 hours to get through the immigration process, protective glass shields have been installed at the immigration counters, allowing faster processing of passengers while maintaining social distancing norms. Sources said around 150 glass shields have been installed, including at the e-visa counters and in both the arrival and departure areas. Confirming the developments, IGI operator Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) said two people could now safely complete their immigration process at the same time, while also maintaining social distancing norms. DIAL CEO Videh Kumar Jaipuriar said efficiency levels are expected to improve with the protective shields now in place, allowing more passengers to be processed each hour. “The safety of everyone working at Delhi airport is paramount to us. As a part of our preparedness for resumption of international commercial service, we have installed glass shields at immigration counters so that two persons can safely complete the process from each counter without compromising their safety,” Jaipuriar claimed. IGI is currently operating at 10% of the original traffic due to the novel coronavirus pandemic. To make the process even faster going ahead, computerised camera-based thermal scanners are also being used in order to reduce time at the Airport Health Organisation checking counters. TOI had reported last week how passengers had to wait for long hours in order to get through the immigration process without any food or water. To change that, DIAL has also set up food and beverage kiosk in the area, along with additional seats. “Computerised camera-based thermal scanners are also functioning at the arrival and departure gates to ensure that each passenger’s temperature is measured in real-time. These scanners capture the body temperature automatically as a passenger passes through the gates,” said an airport source. Watch Delhi: Glass shields at IGI Airport for shorter queues||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/glass-shields-at-igi-for-shorter-queues/articleshow/77229386.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
July 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Kurnool civic body to carry out final rites for Covid-19 victims||KURNOOL: In view of the rising number of instances in which families abandon the dead fearing infection, or bodies lying unclaimed in mortuaries, the Kurnool district administration has decided to take on the responsibility of conducting the final rites for deceased Covid-19 patients. The administration will allow five family members of the deceased to be present at the funeral. It was learnt that Kurnool city MLA Hafeez Khan prevailed upon district collector G Veerapandian and other officials to assume the responsibility of holding the final rites. The rites will be performed in keeping with the religious tradition of the deceased. An electric crematorium for those who succumbed to Covid-19 is being erected at the Hindu burial ground on a war footing. “The decision has been taken to spread the message of chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy who had been spearheading a campaign aimed against the discrimination of Covid-19 patients or dead. Kurnool Municipal Corporation (KMC) is making arrangements to conduct the last rites of those who died due to Covid-19,” Hafeez Khan told TOI. “A team of officials from KMC will visit the hospital and perform the final rites of the bodies at 4 pm every day. We have identified three separate burial grounds for Hindu, Muslim and Christian victims,” said Hafeez Khan. The final rites will be conducted observing all religious customs even if kin do not attend, he said. The legislator said the expenditure on transport of bodies to the cremation or burial ground would be taken care of by the municipal corporation. Kurnool tops districts in the state in terms of number of Covid-19 positive cases. The district has also reported a high death toll, which has contributed to difficulties in disposing of bodies of Covid-19 patients. In some cases, families have stayed away from the deceased, while in others, authorities have delayed in handing over the bodies to families, resulting in accummulation of bodies at hospital mortuaries. The district has reported over 13,380 positive cases and 174 deaths as of Tuesday. Of this, 6,342 cases are active while 6,864 patients have been cured and discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/kurnool-civic-body-to-carry-out-final-rites-for-covid-19-victims/articleshow/77228094.cms||Samdani MN
July 29, 2020||Puducherry||Good old biryani brings Puducherry restaurateur business, brotherhood||PUDUCHERRY: There have been times in the past when A Anthony has found himself at a crossroads. Starting from the moment his family’s electronic business crashed, to the time his mother was allegedly murdered, to more recently, when the pandemic shut his 21-year-old restaurant in Puducherry, the restaurateur has always owed it to god, or “a few good men” for salvaging situations. Days into the first lockdown in March, Anthony took it in his stride as a much-needed break from work, hoping to get his French-Italian restaurant, Madame Shante’s, up and running in a few weeks. “The number of cases were few and our borders were shut, so we didn’t anticipate a big outbreak,” he says. However, as weeks wound into months, and the tourists left, his staff struggled to pay their kids’ tuition fees and parents’ healthcare expenses. Anthony decided that if there was one thing that could get them across as well as earn them goodwill, it was biryani. Madame Shante’s Car Biryani, which started out of two cars and 20 orders, has grown into four cars setting out every morning to deliver almost 1,000 parcels to doctors, labourers, families and white collar workers. Priced at Rs 70, the Car Biryani has brought Puducherry citizens together. “Biryani runs in our veins. But it was one of the least-marketed items at the restaurant,” says Anthony. But today, what started as a strategic business idea has made Anthony the town’s household name as he and his staff cook, pack and deliver the good old rice meal to anyone looking to for a few joys to celebrate in these unsettling times. “There have been moments in the past when I’ve narrowly survived losing the business. But today, when we have been thrown off guard, I feel like I’ve found myself, and it is because of my local brothers and sisters,” says Anthony. “In the future, whether or not the restaurant opens its doors, biryani will keep the wheels of Madame Shante’s cars greased.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/good-old-biryani-brings-puducherry-restaurateur-business-brotherhood/articleshow/77229391.cms||Saranya Chakrapani
July 29, 2020||Trichy||320 anti-social elements arrested in Thanjavur||THANJAVUR: Special police teams have arrested 320 anti-social elements including 81 rowdies in the past one week in Thanjavur district. District superintendent of police, Deshmukh Shekhar Sanjay on Tuesday said that eight teams have been formed in order to curtail the activities of anti-social elements and rowdies. Stringent action is also being taken to detain the accused involved in grave crimes under Goondas Act, the release added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/320-anti-social-elements-arrested-in-thanjavur/articleshow/77230273.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Lucknow||Traders set up bakra mandi in Dubagga without permission||Lucknow: After waiting for directives and permission from district administration for Bakra mandi for long, several goat farmers have set up a market by themselves in Dubagga since Bakrid is just a couple of days away.Unlike in the past, when district administration gave permissions for setting up bakra mandis at designated spots, this year no instructions were issued due to Covid-19 crisis.The goat farmers chose an open land in Dubagga and set up a market in desperation to sell their goats, while throwing all Covid protocols and social distancing norms to the wind.When TOI’s photographer visited the site on Tuesday, people were brushing against each other as they off loaded their goats from mini-trucks and soon started beseeching customers and didn’t follow any distancing while showing their animals.Hardly any goat farmer or customer was seen wearing mask or face cover and it seemed foolhardy to expect the people to be using sanitiser for keeping the virus at bay. The threat the chaotic situation posed raises questions on the inability of district administration and police to let it all happen unchecked could result in spread of coronavirus infection at a time when the city is witnessing high number of cases every day.Vegetable, fruit, fish and other markets are allowed to operate, but there are strict orders to follow Covid-19 protocols.The farmers, both Muslim and Hindu goat breeders, had come from nearby areas and said they incurred heavy losses during pandemic.When TOI contacted district administration, officers said due action will be taken if safety protocols are not being followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/traders-set-up-bakra-mandi-in-dubagga-without-permission/articleshow/77230257.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||929 fined for not wearing mask||Ahmedabad: The solid waste department of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation collected a fine of Rs 5.4 lakh, including a fine of Rs 500 each from 929 people who were found not wearing a mask. West Zone including areas of Ranip, Navrangpura, Naranpura, Paldi, Vasna and Nava Vadaj, recorded highest number of violations where 170 people were caught for not wearing masks. In North West Zone, including areas of Ghatlodia, Thaltej, Gota, Bodakdev, 116 persons were caught not wearing masks. The number was 126 in South West Zone, comprising areas like Jodhpur, Sarkhej, Maktampura, Vejalpur and Bopal-Ghuma. Ever since the mask rule has been enforced, West Zone has recorded the highest violation. The officials said that of the Rs 5.4 lakh collected in fines, Rs 70,000 was collected in fines from paan shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/929-fined-for-not-wearing-mask/articleshow/77229399.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Patna||Valmiki Tiger Reserve thrives as 35 more species found: Tiger status report||PATNA: The Valmiki Tiger Reserve is flourishing. Apart from the rise in the number of the big cats, as stated in the 2018 tiger status report, altogether 35 more species of animals have been found thriving in the sanctuary. The detailed tiger status report, 2018, was released on Tuesday by Union forests minister Prakash Javedkar on the eve of the World Tiger Day on Wednesday. Sambar and chital were the most common animal species captured by the camera traps inside the tiger reserve in West Champaran district, while the rusty spotted cat was the rarest, followed by pangolin. The number of tigers in VTR is pegged at 33 with a density of 2.5 big cats per 100 km. The report states that tiger population using the tiger reserve was 33, while the number of tigers present in the reserve was 32. A total of six cubs have also been photo-captured. The tiger number in VTR has shown an increase over the previous monitoring cycles and it has facilitated the colonization of Sohagibarwa Wildlife Sanctuary in Uttar Pradesh. The VTR represents one of the last patches of forests with the unique combination of Terai-Bhabar vegetation, which harbours rich fauna of several endemic and globally endangered species such as tigers and the greater one-horned rhinoceros. According to the report, the VTR habitat supports a good population of wild dogs — the only place in the Indian Terai to harbour this species— gaur and rhinoceros. Valmiki is the only protected area, where gaurs are found in the Shivaliks and Gangetic plains landscape. The tiger status report also claims that VTR harbours other felids (cats), canids (dogs), ursids (bears) and viverrids such as leopard, fishing cat, jungle cat, leopard cat, Indian fox, dhole, sloth bear, and large Indian civet. Leopards were photo-captured throughout the tiger reserve. The important prey species of the reserve include chital, sambar, hog deer, nilgai, wild pig and gaur. On rhinoceros, the report states that the western part of VTR reported rhino presence, where they occasionally come in from Chitwan National Park in Nepal. The report further states that VTR is considering reintroducing rhinos, but considerable investment in terms of protection regime and realignment of railway tract is required for that. “It is due to the highest standard of habitat management that the number of tigers in VTR has increased from eight in 2008 to 32 at present. Besides, more than 35 other species of animals have been found in the reserve. The improved habitat management has led to expansion of the grassland, which has increased the population of herbivores. The herbivores population has in turn led to rise in number of tigers,” principal secretary (forests) Dipak Kumar Singh told TOI. He added that the enhanced security by the SSB as well as forest guards along with posting of two more veterinarians has also helped in increasing the population of all species of animals. “Our study for re- introducing rhinos in VTR is also in the final stages,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vtr-thrives-as-35-more-species-found-tiger-status-report/articleshow/77227428.cms||Piyush Tripathi
July 29, 2020||Nashik||Nashik traders say odd-even system not serving purpose||Nashik: Traders in the city are not happy with the odd-even system of operating shops. They are of the opinion that the system is not serving the purpose of controlling the rush in the market areas and people too are not observing social distancing.Prafulla Sancheti of the Nashik City Grocers’ Association said, “Authorities should take note that the odd-even system is not at all working in the city. Those who are supposed to keep their establishments closed on a particular day are keeping the front gate of their outlets closed but operating from the other end, thereby eating into the business of those who are strictly following the P1-P2 system.” Sancheti said while they have not written to any authority in this regard, the concerned authorities should take stock of the actual state of affairs in market places and arrive at a proper decision.Inspector at Bhadrakali police station Sajan Sonawane said that they were daily making announcements in the market places to maintain social distancing and also appealing to the shopkeepers to strictly adhere to the odd-even system. “Action is also being taken against shopkeepers who are violating instructions issued by senior officers,” said Sonawane. Deputy commissioner of police (zone 1) Amol Tambe said police were regularly taking action against those who were flouting the odd-even rule. “The decision of scrapping the system does not rest with us (police),” said Tambe.Sancheti also reminded that taking into account the problems of the traders and shopkeepers, political leaders have decided to scrap the system from August 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-traders-say-odd-even-system-not-serving-purpose/articleshow/77226452.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka government mulls tough measures to rein in private hospitals||BENGALURU: Amid reports of private hospitals turning away Covid-19 patients, the Karnataka government is mulling stringent action to make them fall in line. It may even empower officials to impose heavy penalties and even suspend their registration if they refuse treatment to critical patients. Almost a month ago, the Karnataka government met representatives of private hospitals in the state, specifically those across Bengaluru, to seek 50% of their beds in the fight against the pandemic. However, there have been regular complaints about lack of beds, high treatment cost and denial of admission. While the government has said a section of private and corporate hospitals is leading the non-cooperation, private healthcare personnel hint at a serious ego clash between hospitals and Covid management authorities. On Tuesday, chief minister’s political secretary and chairman of the committee dealing with private hospitals SR Vishwanath narrated the experience of one of his followers who was admitted to a private hospital near Hebbal. “This person was admitted under the government quota but the hospital gave him a bill of Rs 12 lakh. It’s nothing but looting. The only way these hospitals can be reined in is by pulling down shutters of at least three or four of them to drive home the point,” he said. Kannada actor Sudharani had to use her clout to get herself admitted to Apollo hospitals, Seshadripuram for a non-Covid ailment. “It’s only because I know police commissioner Bhaskar Rao was I allowed entry into the hospital after its personnel kept me waiting on the street because of absurd norms. Imagine the plight of the common man!” she said. Issuing a warning, medical education minister K Sudhakar tweeted: “ I came across the news of actor Sudharani medical treatment at Apollo Hospitals, Seshadripuram. Not only her, no other common man should be faced with such dire circumstances. Action will be initiated against the private hospital in question.” He told TOI: “We’ve been facing this issue for a while and with rising number of cases, the support of private hospitals is needed. A section of hospitals is not cooperating, but we’ll set it right.” However, the Private Hospitals and Nursing Home Association (PHANA) said the government doesn’t understand their problems. “The government is spending crores of rupees on unnecessary expenditure. They can do a scientific study of costing and address private hospital’s needs,” said PHANA president Dr Prasanna. He added that there’s lot of tedious procedural delay in handing over beds. “More importantly, there is an ego problem within the government and it’s trying to armtwist private hospitals. During this pandemic, everyone must work hand in hand,” he said.  Private hospitals’ main demand has been reduction of GST on life-saving medications like Remdesivir which is administered to a patient — at least six vials. “Each medication costs Rs 4,000 and 12% GST is levied on it. It’s the same with PPE kits and high flow nasal cannulas, all life-saving requirements. Why is the government not reducing or waiving it? It’ll bring down cost of treatment by 10-12% which can be passed on to the patient,” said PHANA president Dr Prasanna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-government-mulls-tough-measures-to-rein-in-private-hospitals/articleshow/77226480.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
July 29, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Rs 500 fine for not wearing mask, spitting||GANDHINAGAR: The state government has decided to impose a fine of Rs 500 for not wearing a mask or spitting in public places in the entire state, with effect from August 1. At present, the fine for not wearing a mask or spitting in public places is Rs 200, except in Ahmedabad where it is already Rs 500. The government said that arrangements have been made for easy availability of masks from Amul parlours across the state. A simple mask at an Amul parlour will cost just Rs 2. The CM has issued necessary instructions to ensure that the people can easily avail a pack of five masks from Amul parlours at a cost of Rs 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/rs-500-fine-for-not-wearing-mask-spitting/articleshow/77231850.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Rs 500 fine for not wearing mask, spitting||GANDHINAGAR: The state government has decided to impose a fine of Rs 500 for not wearing a mask or spitting in public places in the entire state, with effect from August 1. At present, the fine for not wearing a mask or spitting in public places is Rs 200, except in Ahmedabad where it is already Rs 500. The government said that arrangements have been made for easy availability of masks from Amul parlours across the state. A simple mask at an Amul parlour will cost just Rs 2. The CM has issued necessary instructions to ensure that the people can easily avail a pack of five masks from Amul parlours at a cost of Rs 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs-500-fine-for-not-wearing-mask-spitting/articleshow/77229400.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Rs 500 fine for not wearing mask, spitting||GANDHINAGAR: The state government has decided to impose a fine of Rs 500 for not wearing a mask or spitting in public places in the entire state, with effect from August 1. At present, the fine for not wearing a mask or spitting in public places is Rs 200, except in Ahmedabad where it is already Rs 500. The government said that arrangements have been made for easy availability of masks from Amul parlours across the state. A simple mask at an Amul parlour will cost just Rs 2. The CM has issued necessary instructions to ensure that the people can easily avail a pack of five masks from Amul parlours at a cost of Rs 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rs-500-fine-for-not-wearing-mask-spitting/articleshow/77231851.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Rs 500 fine for not wearing mask, spitting||GANDHINAGAR: The state government has decided to impose a fine of Rs 500 for not wearing a mask or spitting in public places in the entire state, with effect from August 1. At present, the fine for not wearing a mask or spitting in public places is Rs 200, except in Ahmedabad where it is already Rs 500. The government said that arrangements have been made for easy availability of masks from Amul parlours across the state. A simple mask at an Amul parlour will cost just Rs 2. The CM has issued necessary instructions to ensure that the people can easily avail a pack of five masks from Amul parlours at a cost of Rs 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/rs-500-fine-for-not-wearing-mask-spitting/articleshow/77231852.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Varanasi||Charges fixed for Covid treatment at Pvt hosps||Varanasi: The district administration has fixed the charges for private hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients. Also, the conditions for home isolation of positive cases have also been prescribed by the officials on Tuesday.Regarding the private hospitals allowed for treating Covid-19 patients, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said all such hospitals will have to follow the guidelines of state government for charging fee of the services given to infected persons. The asymptomatic cases with moderate sickness will be per day charged Rs 10,000 apart from the price of PPE kits by the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH) accredited hospital while non-accredited hospital will charge Rs 8,000.Infected persons with severe sickness who do not need ventilators will be charged Rs 15,000 by NABH accredited hospital and non-accredited hospital will charge Rs 13,000, he said adding, the very severe sickness category patients, who will need ventilator facility, will be charged Rs 18,000 by NABH accredited hospitals and Rs 15,000 by non-accredited hospitals.According to him, the Meridian Hospital in Sarnath, Medwin Hospital in Maidagin, Trimurti Hospital and Apex Hospital on DLW-Bhikaripur Road have been permitted to treat these patients.About home isolation of positive cases, the DM made it clear that this facility will be allowed after examining the condition of patients and the arrangements available at their places. The patients, who will not have fever, cough, cold and respiratory problem, and also not have problems like diabetes, cardiac, kidney ailment and blood pressure, will be allowed to avail the facility of home isolation, he said. Having separate room and toilet and an attendant will also be a major condition for this facility. Buying prescribed medical kit for patient and attendant apart from pulse oximeter, simple thermometer, sanitiser, masks and gloves, sodium hypochlorite solution, food and drinks that enhance immunity will also be a must, he said adding, after ensuring all these arrangements the patients will also have to give an undertaking.The DM said that as per the directives of the government, the home isolation facility has been introduced. He said that 24 rapid response team have been formed for city areas and eight in rural belts. These RRTs will take stock of the condition of patients after confirmation of infection among them by visiting their places. The same team will take decision whether home isolation can be permitted to any patient. If the team will not find the patient suitable for the home isolation facility, he said adding, the patient will be rushed to level-1, 2 or 3 facility as per his condition. He said that to provide L-1 facility, some private nursing homes and hotels have been identified where patients can go on their own expenses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/charges-fixed-for-covid-treatment-at-pvt-hosps/articleshow/77226469.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
July 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Put public health first: HC to state govt on Rath Yatra||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Tuesday castigated the state government for its “appeasement policy” and said that public health should be given priority when considering permission for Lord Jagannath’s Rath Yatra.The HC had last month restrained the annual procession and expressed disappointment at the authorities’ indecisiveness even after seven meetings with temple authorities.The HC’s ire towards the government appeared to have been sharpened because of its last-minute petition seeking a nod for the procession. “What was disappointing was the passive and yielding approach of the state government,” the court said. “As a secular body heading the fight against Covid-19, the government’s main focus should be protecting the health and wellbeing of the people at all costs, even if it means hurting the religious sentiments of some religious leaders.”The court went on to say: “With infection rates going up and our resources gradually depleting, it is mandatory to focus on health rather than religion.”The HC said that for many, religion is supreme. But, it said, “to ensure the safety of ourselves, our family and our neighbours during this pandemic it is mandatory to make the choice of health over religion.”The court commended people’s response to the cancellation of the 143rd Rath Yatra. It was to be held on June 23.But the court tore into the government for not taking a firm stance. “In such critical times, there is no need to consult or discuss anything relating to religious practices with religious leaders at the cost of public health,” the court said. “We emphasize upon the need to prioritize the protection of public health over religious expression.”The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala criticized police and state authorities’ failed efforts to persuade religious leaders. “Instead of…boldly refusing to allow the Rath Yatra citing public health reasons, the government chose to follow a policy of appeasement,” the judges said. They said police and government tried “coaxing to convince religious leaders, temple authorities and organizers connected with Shri Jagannath’s Rath Yatra.”The judges went on to say: “During a pandemic, we do not have time for blandishments. We need action. Strong, pragmatic and robust action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/put-public-health-first-hc-to-state-govt-on-rath-yatra/articleshow/77229397.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Trichy||Farmers seek renovation of tank, protest||Thanjavur: Farmers headed by Tamil Desiya Periyakkam president P Maniarasan organized a protest on the banks of a tank at Aachampatti demanding renovation of the waterbody. More than 50 protesters gathered on the banks of the tank, which has been irrigating around 250 acres of agriculture lands around the village. They raised slogans demanding renovation of the tank immediately. As several works were not completed at the tank, farmers are not able to benefit from the tank, farmers alleged. “A total of Rs 40 lakh was allotted to renovate the tank. However, the work is still incomplete,” he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-seek-renovation-of-tank-protest/articleshow/77230303.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Vijayawada||Anantapur dist to get 1.5k-bed Covid centre||Amaravati: The Anantapur district administration is racing against time to develop a temporary Covid care facility to cater to the growing number of Covid-19 cases. The mortality rate of the district is also one of the highest in the state. What’s surprising is that the district administration, instead of utilising the infrastructure of the near-complete super-specialty hospital in the town, is spending around Rs 9 crore to convert a warehouse complex near Ramnepalle village into a Covid care centre. Sources said only five per cent of work remains to be completed to make the five-storied super-specialty hospital operational. But instead of asking the contractor to complete the work, officials are readying the 1,500-bed temporary facility. Social activist and Praja Science Vedika convenor Dr Suresh Babu urged the district administration to set its focus on completion of the big healthcare facility instead of splurging on a temporary facility. “It will require around Rs 15-20 crore to complete the pending work. The super-specialty hospital is a 350-bed facility and a permanent structure. Another centre could be readied if required later on. The hospital is located within the city and will help people get there easily,” he said. He criticised the district administration for wasting four months since the outbreak of Covid-19. “The contractor should have been given a deadline to finish the work. Senior officials have been promising to complete the hospital for the past four months and convert it into a dedicated Covid-19 hospital. Unfortunately, it is yet to be completed even as positive cases in the district have crossed the 10,000-mark,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/anantapur-dist-to-get-1-5k-bed-covid-centre/articleshow/77228116.cms||Samdani MN
July 29, 2020||Chennai||Few proper devices at home, online classes causing stress among students||Chennai: Shruti and Samhita R are learning from home, but it isn’t easy when the siblings, aged 15 and 11, have to share one laptop. “Our dad uses a laptop, mom uses another and we have to share one old model which is slow. It’s hard enough to pay attention to lessons all day. Sharing devices means we always have a backlog,” said Shruti. With online classes going on for four months now, students are getting stressed, mainly because of slow or inadequate devices. While students may have access to the online lessons, not having a conducive device and environment to study is causing stress. Lakshmi Vijayakumar, a psychiatrist, said in households that don’t have enough devices, there is a constant tussle between siblings, especially when all have to attend online classes. “Unconsciously, one sibling is favoured and given the bigger or better device and the other ends up straining the eyes and ends up having a lot of stress,” she said. There is also pressure from teachers on attendance and timely submission of assignments. But when a household has only one laptop, it adds to stress among students. “At our home, there are three children. But they end up having fights every day on who gets the better device,” said Deepa Ranganathan, a homemaker from K K Nagar. A survey from a thinktank Centre for Budget and Governance Accountability (CBGA) says 73% of respondents are sharing devices with their parents nd 23% don’t get sufficient time. As a result, only 47% of the respondents are happy with their classes. Platforms such as Ventallout have counsellors helping students who are stressed. “They come at a very nominal cost starting from Rs 49. We help them cope with the stress,” said Sunil Mittal, co founder, Ventallout.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/few-proper-devices-at-home-online-classes-causing-stress-among-students/articleshow/77229398.cms||Aparna Desikan
July 29, 2020||Nashik||Don’t harass Covid patients, top cop warns hsg societies||Nashik: City-based residential societies have been warned by police against harassing Covid-19 patients, their families or those travelling with genuine e-passes. Speaking with TOI, police commissioner Vishwas Nangare Patil said he is in process of issuing a circular cautioning residential societies of legal action in case any complaint in this context is lodged with the police. “We have received few complaints about residential societies not allowing outsiders from other districts inside the society complex although they travel with valid e-passes. So far we have refrained from taking any legal action. However, if anyone is travelling with valid passes no one can stop him from reaching the final destination. We would not tolerate such harassment,” the commissioner said. According to him, the police have so far not come across any instance of harassment of Covid patients or their family members by society members. “But on our part we would be cautioning all residents of residential societies so that such incidents do not take place in the future. In fact all of us must stand in solidarity with those infected and their families to make them mentally strong so that they are able to win the battle against Covid-19,” he said. Nangare Patil also appealed to the citizens to wear masks and follow the physical distancing norm. The senior IPS officer said the police is focusing on the containment zones to restrict movement of the people. There are around 351 containment zones across the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dont-harass-covid-patients-top-cop-warns-hsg-societies/articleshow/77226487.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Patna||Dad accuses actress Rhea Chakraborty of abetting Sushant Singh Rajput’s suicide||PATNA: Bollywood actress Rhea Chakraborty has been booked for abetting actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s suicide. Sushant’s father K K Singh lodged an FIR against Rhea on Saturday, Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma told TOI on Tuesday. The actor had allegedly hanged himself in his Mumbai flat on June 14. In the six-page FIR lodged with Rajiv Nagar police station in Patna, Singh has accused Rhea of “unlawfully confining Sushant, criminal breach of trust and abetting suicide”. The FIR has been lodged under Sections 341, 342, 380, 406, 420, 306, 506 and 120B of IPC. SSP Sharma said a four-member Patna police team has reached Mumbai to collect relevant documents found during the investigations conducted by the Mumbai police in the case so far. “Sushant’s father has urged Patna police to investigate the case, alleging that Mumbai police was not conducting the probe properly. Singh also alleged that Mumbai police never contacted him in connection with the case,” the SSP said. In the FIR, a copy of which is with TOI, Singh has accused Rhea, her family members and known associates of cheating his son for financial gains by keeping him confined and under pressure, which finally led to his death. He has also alleged that Rhea used to put condition that Sushant would work in only those films in which she gets the lead actress role. “Rhea got him shifted to a resort from his residence in Mumbai after coming close to her. She told him that his house was haunted. She used to tell Sushant that he talked weird things and needed treatment for mental health. She pressurised him to stay there even after my daughter tried to bring him back,” Singh alleged. “Rhea later got him shifted to her residence in Mumbai where Sushant was given an overdose of medicines. She informed everyone that Sushant was suffering from dengue, which he never had,” Singh alleged in the FIR. He alleged that Rhea and her family members used to keep Sushant’s cellphone, got his trusted staff and employees changed and hired those who were known to her only “so that to control everything”. “Rhea also got Sushant’s cellphone number changed. He was provided with a new sim card issued in the name of one Samial Miranda, who was close to Rhea,” he stated in the FIR. “Sushant had told him on several occasions that he was unable to do anything as they all wanted to put him in a mental asylum. A sum of Rs15 crore was transferred from one of the Sushant’s bank accounts to other bank accounts with which he had nothing to do,” Singh alleged and asked the police to probe his son’s bank accounts and credit cards to know how much he was duped of by Rhea, her relatives and others known to her. Singh also said Sushant wanted to leave film industry and shift to Coorg in Kerala for organic farming. He was also looking for land, but Rhea stopped him by threatening that she would reveal his medical documents to media to declare him mad and destroy him through her connections. Sushant’s father also alleged that Rhea left his residence with laptop, cash, jewellery, credit cards, documents related to his treatment on June 8 after Sushant opposed her and sensing that his bank balance had diminished. “After his former manager Disha’s suicide, Sushant feared that Rhea might get him implicated in the case. He called Rhea multiple times, but she had blocked his number. It was Rhea who had got Disha hired for Sushant,” Singh alleged. Singh said he tried to talk to Sushant on multiple occasions while being in Patna, but Rhea, her family members and other associates neither allowed it nor let his son return to Patna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dad-accuses-actress-rhea-of-abetting-sushants-suicide/articleshow/77227184.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Murder convict tests positive after death||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Covid-19 test results of Mallela Om Prakash, who was serving a life sentence at Visakhapatnam Central Jail and passed away on July 26, came on Tuesday. He tested positive. Prison authorities are currently tracing his contacts. However, officials said that Om Prakash was spending his sentence in a single cell and came in contact with very few people. S Rahul, superintendent of the prison, said that 282 prisoners have been tested for Covid-19. Their results are awaitied.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/murder-convict-tests-ve-after-death/articleshow/77228130.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Varanasi||Ex gratia of Rs 5L handed over to kin of boy killed by abductors in Gorakhpur||Gorakhpur: Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday announced an ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh to the family of the 14-year-old boy who was abducted and killed in Gorakhpur. The body of the boy was recovered from an area near Kewatia nulla in Pipraich on Monday. Three policemen of Pipraich police station have been suspended for carelessness and negligence during duty. Officials of the district administration and local MLA on Tuesday met the family of the boy and presented a cheque of Rs 5 lakh to them. MLA Pipraich, MP Singh, district magistrate, Vijyendra Pandiyan along with other officials presented the cheque to the family of the deceased boy and also condoled the grieving family members. Earlier, Yogi announced the ex gratia to the grieved family of the deceased boy through a tweet on his official twitter account on Monday night. In another tweet, CM directed the officials to conduct a strict investigation against the accused and invoke National Security Act (NSA) against them. CM said the state government will get the criminals sentenced through fast-track court. SSP Sunil Kumar Gupta during a press conference on Monday evening told that police have arrested five people so far and search is on to nab the remaining two accused. Police arrested prime accused of the case-Dayanand Rajbhar and Ajay Gupta of Jungle Dhoosar area and Nikhil Bharti of Mishroulia village. Rinku Gupta and Nitesh Paswan of Jungle Chatradhari area were also arrested for selling mobile SIM which was used by the kidnappers to call the boy’s family asking for ransom. “Sub-inspector Digvijay Singh, constable Pradeep Singh and constable Surendra Tiwari of Pipraich police station have been suspended with immediate effect for showing carelessness during duty and not fulfilling their responsibilities,” SSP, Sunil Kumar Gupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ex-gratia-of-rs-5l-handed-over-to-kin-of-boy-killed-by-abductors-in-gorakhpur/articleshow/77226509.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Goa||Covid testing fees go to CM’s relief fund: Sawant||Panaji: The Rs 2,000 per person testing fees collected from over 11,000 stranded Goans who returned home owing to the coronavirus pandemic has been deposited into the chief minister’s relief fund for Covid-19, chief minister and NRI affairs minister Pramod Sawant has stated in the assembly. However, when asked for details of quarantine fees charged, he stated that the fees are being charged by respective establishments, details of which are not maintained by his department, the NRI department. Since the pandemic, a total of 11,067 stranded Goans have returned, Sawant said responding to queries. Over 70% of these were seafarers. Of these, 7,939 seafarers entered Goa directly and via other parts of India while two cruise ships brought back nearly 2,000 of them directly from Greece and Italy. Only a miniscule 11% of stranded Goans were repatriated directly to Goa on nine Vande Bharat flights from UAE, Oman, Kuwait, UK and other countries. 60% were repatriated via 35 direct charter flights from Italy, UAE, Sri Lanka, Qatar, Brazil, UK, Philippines, Mongolia, Netherlands, Germany, Barbados, Kuwait, Oman, Cayman Islands and Saudi Arabia. When asked for details of jobless people who applied to return, Sawant said the data is unavailable. He told the assembly that a total of 6,544 Goans have registered their names on the NRI portal www.nri.goa.gov.in, of which 6,097 have indicated their wish to return to Goa. Further, he said that details of those who registered on the portal were collected with a confidentiality clause and hence, cannot be disclosed in the public domain. When asked about the state’s initiative to bring back stranded OCI card holders, Sawant said details of stranded OCI card holders and Portuguese passport holders are not maintained separately and that their repatriation is the subject matter of the central government. “The question of repatriation by the government of Goa does not arise,” he stated. Data of the total number of foreigners repatriated and the amount spent on them are also not maintained by the state government, he said in the assembly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-testing-fees-go-to-cms-relief-fund-sawant/articleshow/77229403.cms||Lisa Monteiro
July 29, 2020||Bengaluru||With doctor assisting through video call, woman gives birth to boy as||Haveri: In yet another instance of extraordinary kindness at the time of pandemic, a woman in Hanagal town delivered a healthy boy at home after her neighbours came to her rescue in the last minute. A doctor from KIMS, Hubballi, assisted them through a video call. Vasavi Pathepur of Kittur Chennamma Street was due by the end of July, but she developed labour pain at 2.3pm on Sunday. Unfortunately, all efforts to get an ambulance during the lockdown went in vain. Sources said as Hanagal taluk hospital was sealed after a nurse tested positive for Covid-19, Vasavi, who was writhing in pain, did not get a vehicle. Hearing her cries, her neighbour Jyoti Madi and other women rushed to her house. “I immediately called my neighbour Dr Priyanka Mantagi, who is pursuing MD in Hubballi KIMS, and explained to her the condition of Vasavi. The doctor said she would guide us through a video call and gave us courage to assist Vasavi,” said Jyoti, a techie, who works in Bengaluru and stays in Hangal now. Without wasting time, the women swung into action. They followed the doctor’s instructions and finally, succeeded in aiding a safe delivery. “We managed to save two lives with the timely help of Dr Priyanka. None of us had any experience of conducting deliveries earlier and this was possible because of the doctor’s encouragement,” she added. Vasavi said she had lost all hopes when they failed to get an ambulance to reach other hospitals. “I thank my neighbours who showed exemplary courage and presence of mind to support me during the crisis,” she added. Dr Priyanka Mantagi said she was confident and gave proper guidance over the phone. “All women supported and followed each instruction carefully that helped avoid complications. Vasavi had given birth to her first child through c-section, so there was a little risk involved. However, I was confident that the process will be normal. Both the mother and the child are doing fine,” Priyanka added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/with-doctor-assisting-through-video-call-woman-gives-birth-to-boy-as/articleshow/77226535.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Lucknow||Take cue from BSP govts to tackle crime in state, Mayawati tells Yogi||Lucknow: Commenting on the recent spate of murders and kidnappings in Uttar Pradesh, BSP chief Mayawati has advised chief minister Yogi Adityanath to take inspiration from her governments during which time, she said, law and order was much better. Alleging that there was no rule of law in UP, where criminals had enforced a jungle raj, Mayawati said it would not help to make speeches and announcements. Instead the need was to get down on the ground and take strict decisions and implement them properly, she added. “There is no shame in the government taking a few lessons on law and order implementation from the BSP governments, under whom every section of society was looked after and where rule of law was enforced by law. Nobody was harassed and if some crime did take place, immediate and strict action was taken so that the incident would not be repeated,” she said. The former UP CM added that untouchability is still prevalent in UP, as was clear in the recent Agra incident where people did not allow the cremation of a Dalit woman in a crematorium which was meant for upper caste people. “This matter should be investigated at the highest level and exemplary action taken against the accused so that such an incident does not happen again,” she said. Mayawati asked the Centre to intervene in the states where crime is high and seek monthly reports from them on steps being taken to establish the rule of law. She also demanded that the Centre should frame a common law to combat Covid-19 and ensure its implementation across all states. The Centre will be announcing the rules for Unlock-3 anytime now and, Mayawati said, BSP has always supported the Centre on this issue, and also cooperated with it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/take-cue-from-bsp-govts-to-tackle-crime-in-state-mayawati-tells-yogi/articleshow/77230283.cms||Neha Lalchandani
July 29, 2020||Kolkata||Lockdown calendar a relief for flyers, airlines||KOLKATA: Flyers, airlines officials and travel agents on Tuesday welcomed the announcement of all lockdown dates in August that eliminated the possibility of uncertainty plaguing the sector since last week when the twice-a-week complete lockdown was introduced. There is, however, uncertainty over the fate of flights from six cities, including Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai, to Kolkata that are currently banned. A question mark also hangs over international flights that are not allowed to land in Kolkata. “I was booked to travel on August 16 but will now have to reschedule the ticket since it is a lockdown date when fights won’t operate. Though it is still a hassle, it is much better than getting to know with less than a week to go. I now know the dates when travel won’t be disrupted,” said Kaushik Mukherjee, who works in a law firm. He and scores of other passengers booked to travel on dates on which lockdown was declared on Tuesday called up travel agents and airlines to make the necessary alterations in plans. At least three travel agents TOI spoke to said they would have their hands full till the end of the week to adjust clients’ travel schedules. Though flights had operated last Thursday, the first day of biweekly lockdown in the state, they were cancelled on Saturday. Trains though operated on Saturday, too, but will not operate on Wednesday and on all lockdown dates in August. “It’s good that the lockdown schedule for the entire month has been declared instead of just a week. This way, there is clarity that will help airlines schedule their flights, passengers book their tickets and us, the travel agents, offer confirmed bookings. I wish the state government had also announced its decision on international flights and flights from the six cities that currently cannot land in Kolkata or other airports in the state,” said Travel Agents’ Federation of India chairman (east) Anil Punjabi. Sources in the airport said the state was likely to seek an extension of the embargo on both international flights and domestic flights from the worst Covid-hit states. “We expect a communication from the civil aviation ministry in the next couple of days,” the official said. Though the second lockdown date in the current week had not been announced in advance, passengers and travel agents had worked out that it was unlikely to be on Thursday, Friday and Saturday and gone ahead with ticket bookings on these days. The reasoning was that Saturday being Eid and shopping possible only on Thursday and Friday, the state was unlikely to declare them as lockdown days. The lockdown was also initially considered on Monday (August 3) but shifted to Wednesday (August 5) to avoid inconvenience on Raksha Bandhan. Similarly, August 29 was initially considered a lockdown date but it was later shifted to August 31 as Muharram will be observed on the former date this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lockdown-calendar-a-relief-for-flyers-airlines/articleshow/77228136.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Kolkata||For Covid suspects, cremation will not wait for test reports||KOLKATA: Families of Covid suspect patients who are brought dead to hospital will be handed over the body for last rites as per ICMR protocol, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Tuesday. Adding that the decision has been taken on “humanitarian grounds”, Banerjee said: “In many cases, the families of patients who are brought dead to hospital have to wait for several hours — even days — for test results.” According to state chief secretary Rajiva Sinha, it will reduce waiting time for family members. In Bengal, patients’ kin are allowed to see the body in the hospital and only one or two immediate relatives, in pressing circumstances, are allowed to watch the cremation or burial from a distance. The ICMR guidelines allow family members in the crematoriums and burial grounds but ban any physical proximity to the body. The guidelines say rituals such as reading from religious scripts, sprinkling holy water and any other last rites that do not require touching of the body can be allowed. The guidelines ban large gathering at the crematorium and burial ground because it is possible that close family contacts may be infected. Rajya Sabha MP Shantanu Sen said, “Covid suspects are also treated as Covid positive cases as per guidelines.” In such cases, a body must be kept in a leak-proof plastic body bag. The exterior of the body bag must be decontaminated with 1% hypochlorite. Early last month, the state had issued a revised SOP to allow last rites for Covid patients. To allow family members of the deceased to pay their last respects, it had been directed that hospital authorities shall inform the family members within an hour of the death. A body cover with transparent face area shall be used. Mask and gloves will be provided to the family members by the hospital after proper sanitization and the body should be kept at a suitable place for 30 minutes during which the family members shall be allowed to pay their last respects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/for-covid-suspects-cremation-will-not-wait-for-test-reports/articleshow/77228129.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lady Justice blindfolded, court can see: HC||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court warned litigants that they should not be mistaken that their half-truths can get them through litigation thinking that the statue of Lady Justice is blindfolded and courts cannot spot the truth if not told. The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice Ashutosh Shastri made some important observations about the judiciary, that it can discern the truth from the blurred reality presented by parties. While dealing with the case of a sacked executive who levelled charges of sexual harassment after her superior abruptly fired her, the bench said, “Parties to any litigation before a court should not harbour the misconception that since the statue of Lady Justice is blindfolded, the justice system turns a blind eye to acts like prevarication, motivated falsehoods, collusion and the like. Using truth as a guiding star in the entire judicial process, is our mandate, obligation and bounden duty.” The judges further observed, “Truth is the foundation of justice and that dispensation of justice, based on truth, is an essential feature in the justice delivery system. Truth is a mirage. It rests in the recesses of the human mind. What emerge are actions driven by the perplexities of emotion, judgment and perceptions. Examined on the touchstone of justice, courts evaluate facts as they emerge on record, proceeding to uphold or set aside these actions through judicial appraisal. It is not for courts to unravel the complexities of the human mind.” The case involved a senior executive in the National Dairy Development Board (NDDB)-owned IDMC Ltd. She was employed on a hefty salary and promoted and her salary package continued to grow with ‘outstanding’ and ‘exceptional’ performance remarks till the general manager changed in 2017. With the new head, an inquiry was set up highlighting her alleged irregularities and failures and she was sacked without any explanation. The next day, she accused her boss of sexual harassment. The woman approached the HC and a single-judge bench quashed her termination and ordered the company to reinstate her. The company then filed an appeal before the division bench, which castigated the company and the executive for coming before the court with half-truths. It quashed the decision to terminate the executive, the inquiry results and also rejected the woman’s charges of sexual harassment against the boss who had sacked her. The court said, “There appears to be concealment by both sides. While embarking on this quest for truth we have derived a gainful insight into human behaviour, mannerisms, motivations and many a subtle hues which go behind the decision making process.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lady-justice-blindfolded-court-can-see-hc/articleshow/77228181.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Kolkata||KMC’s rapid test to start from Borough IX tomorrow||KOLKATA: Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) has decided to start rapid antigen test for Covid suspects from Thursday. This rapid test is capable of testing swab samples of 10 patients at a time and the results are known in half an hour, said a KMC senior health official. Sources in the KMC health department said the facility (rapid testing) will be available at all KMC boroughs. “To begin with, we will arrange for testing Covid suspects in Kalighat, Chetla and Alipore, among other areas of Borough IX from Thursday. Next, we will extend the facility to people of all other boroughs,” said a KMC health department official. The reason behind the introduction of rapid tests is to expedite the results so that patients who test positive may get more time for treatment. Now, the KMC health department conducts swab tests at Covid-sensitive zones every day. Swab samples are collected from the Covid suspects and are sent to SSKM for tests. SSKM then sends the test results to the state health department and the patient is finally intimated about the test after three-four days. “If a patient tests positive, this delay may prove costly. Under the rapid test method, we will intimate the patients about the results by an hour, which will be beneficial for positive patients,” said a civic official. According to sources in the KMC health department, the civic body is planning to introduce rapid tests in some of the worst-hit Covid containment zones in next 15 days. “We are preparing a borough-wise list of worst containment zones where we will offer rapid tests to residents who have Covid symptoms,” the official said. Some of the areas where the KMC health department will be conducting rapid test include Ultadanga-Kankurgachhi-Phoolbagan belt, Maniktala, Beliaghata, Burrabazar, Jorabagan, Jorasanko, Park Street, Park Circus, Ballygunge, Dhakuria, Kasba, Jadavpur, Tollygunge and Behala, among other areas. “We are searching for community halls and other places for conducting rapid tests across 16 boroughs,” a KMC health department official said on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmcs-rapid-test-to-start-from-borough-ix-tomorrow/articleshow/77228160.cms||Saikat Ray
July 29, 2020||Goa||Board dissects performance of students in three subjects||Panaji: For the first time, a dissection of the performance of nearly 19,000 students in the subjects of English, mathematics and science at the Class X exam has been carried out, by the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education. The students’ performance has been analysed section-wise to reveal areas where most tend to score better and sections where they are not able to fare well. “This data will be shared with schools. Teachers can take remedial measures as per the findings and use this information to improve students’ performance further,” said board chairman Ramkrishna Samant. Though the pass percentage in English, for instance, was 96.7%, the analysis has been carried out of students’ performance each question-wise to identify the common weak and strength areas. “We have worked out a graph based on how students have fared in a particular question. In question number two in the English language paper, for example, many students have scored 10 out of 10. The question was related to a tree diagram. But in question number ten, which is ‘article writing’, many have secured 30%-50%, which means it is a difficult area. Very few have secured 100% in question number ten,” said board secretary Bhagirath Shetye. The analysis showed that most students did well in grammar. “The overall pass percentage in science is 94.1%. In this subject, question number four included questions on periodic classification of elements, heredity, carbon and its compounds, and how do organisms reproduce. Looking at the analysis, it seems possible that many students did not understand these concepts well. This is where students and teachers will have to do well,” said Shetye. He said that most students had also only ‘moderately understood’ concepts of electricity, human eye and colorful world and magnetic effects of electric current. In mathematics, he said that students, for instance, had done well in ‘circle and construction’ chapter. But they had not done too well in the chapter on ‘area related to circle and surface area and volume’, which, Shetye said, is a question which requires application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/board-dissects-performance-of-students-in-three-subjects/articleshow/77229448.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Non-Covid treatment takes a backseat in Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: While the district administration and the health department bring in more private hospitals under the ambit of Covid-19 care, the treatment of non-Covid-19 patients suffering from other ailments or waiting for elective surgeries has taken a hit. The non-availability of manpower at hospitals has made treatment and tests for non-emergencies, routine ailments and elective surgeries a challenging task. Several patients complained that many private clinics and small hospitals are closed, while those that are open are reluctant to treat non-Covid-19 cases. A senior citizen recently admitted to a small private hospital near Zilla Parishad Junction for age-related complications had to vacate after hospital authorities were instructed to partially convert the institution into a Covid-19 Care Centre. Along with the senior citizen, some other patients with chronic but non-emergency ailments had to look for an alternative. Special officer for Covid-19 (north-coastal AP) Dr PV Sudhakar said that of the 218 hospitals registered under the District Medical and Health Office (DMHO), 33 have been selected for Covid-19 care as category A hospitals (entirely dedicated to Covid-19 treatment) or as category B hospitals (partially dedicated to Covid-19 treatment). “Around 180 hospitals are free to do electives or smaller surgeries and other non-Covid-19 cases. Hospitals with less than 50 beds or the smaller hospitals have not been converted to Covid-19 care institutes.” However, president of Andhra Pradesh Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (APNA)-Vizag chapter, Dr Padmavathi Naidu, said, “The problems faced by non-Covid-19 patients are going to escalate in future. Even minor, elective surgeries cannot be postponed indefinitely as it would give rise to complications if delayed inordinately. Some clinics have closed down since the lockdown. In smaller hospitals and nursing homes under APNA, around 80% of staff, including paramedics and class IV staff, have stopped coming fearing Covid-19. So with severe staff crunch and the pandemic around, non-Covid-19 elective patients are facing a tough time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/non-covid-treatment-takes-a-backseat/articleshow/77228139.cms||Sulogna Mehta
July 29, 2020||Nashik||NMC expects fewer than 10,000 cases by July 31||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) is optimistic and confident that the Covid-19 patient-count in the city would not rise to 10,000 by July 31, as projected by the state government. The reason for their optimism is the fact that the number of cases has dropped in the past 48 hours. The civic body said positive cases have reduced in the city due to the rise in the number of tests, early detection and timely treatment. NMC officials said they are conducting 2,000 tests per day and the positivity rate per 100 swabs/tests has reduced from 20% to 10%. The NMC is confident that the trend of positive cases will reverse within the next eight-10 days. The state health panel had visited Nashik city early in July to review the Covid-19 scenario and had projected the rise in the number of positive cases to 10,000. So far, the NMC has had 7,919 positive cases and 253 deaths. Also, 5,970 patients have recovered. Currently, the city has 1,696 active patients. “The number of cases has reduced in the past two days. We are expecting the case-count to reach 8,700 by July 31. We are optimistic that the trend will reverse in the next 10 days,” said NMC officials. “We have started tracing suspected cases in the slums and containment areas. We are also taking the help of a social organization that has provided 20 mobile clinics for check-up of residents and antigen tests,” they said. Currently, we are conducting 2,000 daily tests, including 1,500 antigen tests and 500 RT-PCR tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-expects-fewer-than-10000-cases-by-july-31/articleshow/77226525.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Have kept Ram Mandir promise, that’ll help us in 2022’||The newly appointed Gujarat BJP president C R Paatil says that his party has allowed grassroots workers such as him to rise through the ranks. He said that he has trained his focus on winning 150 seats in the 2022 assembly polls. Q: Did you ever imagine that you would head the state BJP as ‘Savaya Gujarati?’ A: Frankly never. I was overwhelmed when informed that I was being entrusted with such a big responsibility. For a few moments, I did not know how to react. Only in the BJP is it possible for a grassroots worker like me, without any caste base, to be elevated to such a position. Q: Although you have an excellent grip of politics in South Gujarat, you have had limited exposure in Central Gujarat, Saurashtra, and North Gujarat. How will you address that? A: It is true that I have not worked much beyond South Gujarat. But the BJP’s team is very strong across the state and its organization is robust. I will shortly visit all the areas of the state. For me, the BJP worker anywhere is most important person of the party and my role is to ensure that we use this strength for improving the party’s prospects. Q: BJP got only 99 seats in the 2017 assembly elections, its worst performance in recent years. How many seats do you expect in 2022? A: The BJP has bounced backed strongly after the 2017 assembly elections and I am sure it will win 150 seats in 2022. Q: The BJP is considered to be struggling in the run-up to the eight assembly byelections and the upcoming panchayat polls. A: No, we are confident of winning all eight assembly seats and will perform better in the panchayat elections than we did in 2015. Q: You talked about taking central and state government schemes to people in a big way. How do you propose to do that? A: I have done it my Lok Sabha constituency where we prepared a database of beneficiaries and our workers reached out to them. The same model will be replicated across the state. Q: You talked about the use of technology when you took over. What are your plans? A: Since we cannot organize mass gatherings, we will adopt a mix of technologies to reach the masses. Q: Is the BJP facing factionalism like the Congress? A: It is not true. There is a fundamental difference between us and the Congress. Q: How do you view the ongoing leadership issues in the Gujarat Congress after Hardik Patel’s appointment? A: It is an internal matter of the Congress. For us, the Congress is just a political opponent. Q: The 2015 local body polls and 2017 assembly elections were held under the shadow of caste-based agitations. Will the focus now be on Hindutva and development? A: Our focus was development and it will always be so. The BJP has delivered on its promise of building the Ram Mandir and people will certainly appreciate our commitment. We have fulfilled people’s expectations on the Ram Mandir and that will certainly help us in the 2022 elections. Q: There are speculations that your appointment is linked with the BJP’s plan to regain power in Maharashtra. You are a Maharashtrian leader in Gujarat. What is your view? A: I cannot comment on Maharashtra. Q: Do you have plans to bring in more Congress leaders? A: I do not see the need to do so. Our workers must be stronger than any Congress leader. This will be our strategy in the coming days. Q: How do you view CM Vijay Rupani’s four years in power? A: The CM’s four years have been very successful and he has provided good leadership. Q: There are speculations that the CM and the cabinet will be changed. A: Nothing like that is happening. People are trying to spread rumours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/have-kept-ram-mandir-promise-thatll-help-us-in-2022/articleshow/77229441.cms||Kapil Dave
July 29, 2020||Varanasi||Court convicts Pervez Parvaz in gang rape case||Gorakhpur: The district sessions court in Gorakhpur convicted Pervez Parvaz and Mahmood aka Jumman Baba in a gang rape case and sentenced them to life imprisonment and Rs 25,000 fine each on Tuesday. The district judge Govind Ballabh Sharma pronounced the verdict and sentence against Parvaz and Mahmood and said the fine imposed on the accused be used for rehabilitation of the rape survivor. The rape case against Parvez Parvaz and Mahmood aka Jumman Baba, who is an occultist, was registered under section 376 D (gang rape) on June 4, 2018 at Rajghat police station after a woman filed a complaint against them and accusing them of raping her after calling her on pretext of treatment in September 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/court-convicts-pervez-parvaz-in-gang-rape-case/articleshow/77226545.cms||Arjumand Bano
July 29, 2020||Nashik||Nagpur AIIMS team lauds Nagar admin||Nashik: A two-member team from AIIMS, Nagpur, have lauded the Ahmednagar district administration for the efforts it is taking to contain the spread of Covid-19. Based on the instructions of the Union health ministry, Arvind Kushwaha and Sitikanta Banerjee paid a day-long visit to Ahmednagar on Monday to assess the Covid-19 situation. According to district collector Rahul Dwivedi, the team inspected the facilities at the civil hospital and other Covid hospitals in Ahmednagar city. They also visited some of the containment zones in the city. “We have decided to increase daily testing to about 3,500 a day from the 1,000 tests we are conducting presently. Our positivity rate now is about 15-20%,” said Dwivedi. Ahmednagar is one of the 11 new hotspots in India that have reported double-digit positive growth rate in the past two weeks. Officials said that the team has asked the district administration to take steps to improve the mortality rate and, if necessary, set up more containment zones. Currently, there are 1,346 active cases of the 3,817 positive cases registered in the district so far. 53 patients have succumbed to the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nagpur-aiims-team-lauds-nagar-admin/articleshow/77226549.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Lucknow||209 cops test corona +ve at training centres||Lucknow: As many as 209 police personnel tested positive for Covid-19 at UP Police training centres in a span of two days in random sampling. While 92 police personnel tested positive for novel coronavirus at Arms Training Centre (ATC) in Sitapur, 117 cops pursuing courses of head constabulary were tested positive at Police Training College (PTC) in Moradabad. Health teams in both districts have been deployed on the premises on the instructions of district administrations. In Sitapur, chief medical officer Alok Verma told TOI, “We had tested 400 personnel including the office staff at the centre. Of this, 92 came positive based on antigen testing.” He added that testing was still going on while an L1 hospital with a capacity of 1,500 has been set up for personnel. “None of the personnel who worked in the office have tested positive till now but those who had joined duty from other districts are among the infected,” he added. All those who have tested positive have been quarantined on the campus. At Moradabad PTC, DIG Sheo Shankar Singh told TOI that 115 personnel had tested positive through antigen tests and two through RTPCR testing. Singh added that most cops who had tested positive had joined the college on July 15 from various districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/209-cops-test-corona-ve-at-training-centres/articleshow/77230306.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Trichy||Cops served notices for failing to address law and order issues||Trichy: Pudukottai district superintendent of police, L Balaji Saravanan, served notices to 35 police inspectors and sub-inspectors on Tuesday seeking explanation for their failure to address law and order issues in their station limits.Saravanan, who took over as Pudukottai SP a few days back, had formed two special teams to crack down on the illegal sale of lottery, ganja, liquor and illegal sand mining activities taking place across the district. Each team consisting four constables headed by a sub-inspector patrolled the length and breadth of the district over the past one week. They carried out arrests, filed cases against such illegal activities and gave a report to the SP.Based on the report, the SP served notices to the inspectors and sub inspectors in the stations limits where arrests were made by the special teams. Explanations were sought as to why action should not be taken against them for failing to crackdown on illegal activities. They were asked to respond within three days. The SP said that the move was aimed at making the police personnel more accountable and vigilant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cops-served-notices-for-failing-to-address-law-and-order-issues/articleshow/77230319.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rs 4 crore in demonetized notes seized in Godhra||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat ATS along with Godhra police, based on a specific tip-off, recovered more than Rs 4 crore in demonetized currency notes from two persons in Godhra on Tuesday evening. ATS sources said they were counting the notes and the value could be higher. “An FIR is yet to be registered as the legal process for seizing the demonetized notes is under way,” added an ATS official. According to an ATS official, an SP-rank officer got a tip-off about demonetized notes lying with three persons, Zuber Hayat and his father Idrish Hayat, residents of Mohammadi Society, and Farooq Chota of Maulana Azad Road. “On Tuesday evening, we raided the house of Idrish Hayat and found the demonetized notes. We have caught Zuber Hayat and Farooq Chota while Idrish Hayat is absconding,” added a senior ATS official. ATS officials said more such notes could be recovered. “We are questioning the accused about who the notes were going to be given to, to exchange and at what rate,” an ATS official said. Sources said more notes could be seized are investigators are searching other premises based on the interrogation of the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs-4-crore-in-demonetized-notes-seized-in-godhra/articleshow/77228248.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Shunned by burial grounds fearing Covid, Muslim family cremates kin||VISAKHAPATNAM: The family of a 22-year-old deceased youth from the Muslim community was forced to cremate the body after authorities at burial grounds refused permission for carrying out final rites, suspecting the youth had died of Covid-19. The incident took place on July 22 but came to light on Tuesday after a city-based advocate informed the AP State Waqf Board. The youth’s family visited half-a-dozen burial grounds in the city, but were turned away from all of them on a similar suspicion. At last, the family decided to cremate the body against their custom and requested the authorities at a Hindu burial ground at Jnanapuram for permission. Responding to the complaint, the AP Waqf Board, in its order released on Tuesday, said that the managements of waqf institutions should not obstruct, prevent or deny the burial of any Muslim dead body in Muslim burial grounds, including the deceased bodies of positive Covid-19 cases. The board said that all managements of waqf institutions in all districts of AP are requested not to cause hindrance in the burial of confirmed cases of Covid-19 and any deviations in this regard shall attract necessary action in accordance with rules and laws to enforce criminal proceedings. Meanwhile, the Vizag Muslim Advocates’ Association demanded the AP Waqf Board to take action against the burial grounds. The association demanded the Waqf Board remove committees that expect payment from the deceaseds’ families and in their place, appoint new bodies. “Every Muslim can have a peaceful burial as per Article 21 of the Constitution which states that no person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except according to a procedure established by law,” association coordinator SKA Hussain said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/shunned-by-burial-grounds-fearing-covid-muslim-family-cremates-kin/articleshow/77228250.cms||Siva G
July 29, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Covid lanyard may cause you more harm than good||LUCKNOW: The first time IT professional Ankit Bajpayi reached office without a mask, his colleagues maintained a distance from him. He also got an earful from seniors that next time he ditched a mask, he would be marked absent. It was when he explained that he was wearing a Japanese anti-Covid lanyard, they were able to breathe easy. However, their peace was short-lived as one of them found the device to be fake. After counterfeit sanitizers and masks, these Japan-made ‘virus shut out cards’ being sold in a few markets like Krishnanagar and Chowk are cashing on the fear of people by falsely claiming that it kills 99.9% virus and bacteria in the air. The ‘virus shut out card’ is a lanyard with chlorine dioxide, a compound used for fumigation and disinfecting water. Priced at Rs 120, they are also available on leading e-commerce sites though with a higher price tag. With a shelf life of 60 days, it claims to restrict the virus within one-metre radius. The description on the product says, “It effectively blocks airborne particles, bacteria and all types of epidemic viruses, reducing the chance of being infected or infecting others. It is suitable for everyone, especially people with low immunity, kids, elderly and those exposed to hospitals.” Many officials in the district administration and police have been spotted wearing the virus shut out card. Talking to TOI, head of microbiology department at SGPGI, Dr TN Dhole, termed the virus shut out card as “completely bogus”. “On the contrary, it can have adverse effect on human body like watery eyes, skin irritation and coughing. How can you expect this card to block coronavirus which is spread from person to person when a patient with Covid-19 coughs or exhales? It’s against the measures being adopted for preventing the spread of Covid-19... Nothing can stop the virus in humid climate,” Dr Dhole said. “There’s no substitute to masks. Anti-Covid cards are not authorized and people should be wary of products promising to nip the virus in the bud,” president of IMA Lucknow, Dr Rama Srivastava, said. “Nobody should trust these devices unless the government puts a stamp of approval on them,” she added. Former IMA national president and Padma Shri awardee KK Agarwal said: “These portable air purifiers claim to disinfect the air as the user moves around. But there is no alternative to masks. This device can be used in addition to masks.” Doctors said these devices offer no protection since gas dissipates fast, especially outdoors, where the air is moving. If someone is sneezing at you, the device won’t be able to kill all the virus particles in droplets in a fraction of a second, they said. On May 15, the Japanese consumer affairs agency had warned people that the product was ineffective against Covid-19. The card has been banned in several countries, including the US, Thailand and the Philippines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-lanyard-may-cause-you-more-harm-than-good/articleshow/77230314.cms||Ankur Tewari
July 29, 2020||Goa||28 pupils answered open school exams using transfer of credit||Panaji: During 2019-20 for the first time, Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education implemented the transfer of credit scheme, in an arrangement with the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS), board chairman Ramkrishna Samant said. Under this arrangement, 28 Goa Board students availed benefit of this scheme, Samant said. “This is for students unable to clear certain subjects under Goa Board despite repeated attempts. They can apply for transfer of credit of the subjects passed under Goa Board. The student can also request for change of subjects while answering NIOS examination as per availability of subjects,” Samant said. Samant said a student failing in a Goa Board public examination will have to answer those subjects with grade I or H through NIOS. “Credit is transferred of the subject cleared/passed under Goa Board. For example: a student passing in four subjects and failing in two subjects has to answer failed subjects under NIOS, retaining credits for the four subjects cleared at the Goa Board exam. This year, 28 students answered the examination of NIOS under this scheme,” Samant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/28-pupils-answered-open-school-exams-using-transfer-of-credit/articleshow/77229464.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Patna||Covid tally touches 43,000 in Bihar as testing figures rise||PATNA: On a day the state conducted 16,275 Covid-19 tests in 24 hours, the highest so far, altogether 2,480 fresh cases were registered, taking the tally to 43,591. According to the health department, 14 deaths were also reported on Tuesday, including two from Patna, taking the toll to 269. With 29,220 recoveries so far, active cases stand at 14,100. Amid the continuing spike in coronavirus cases, chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday ordered further increase in the number of Covid-19 tests through RT-PCR method and to make testing arrangements in all districts of Bihar. As per CM’s instructions, control rooms set up in all hospitals will now make a mandatory call to each patient daily and inquire about their health condition, availability of medicine and doctor’s visit and speedy disposal of any complaints. “Those staying in home isolation will also be monitored,” a communication from the CMO stated. Meanwhile, cases continued to rise in state capital Patna with the health department’s data stating that the maximum number of Covid-19 cases in the state were registered in Patna on Tuesday with 411 people testing positive for the virus. The tally for Patna has now reached 7,481. However, with 4,403 recoveries and 41 deaths, there are 3,037 active cases in the district. IPRD secretary Anupam Kumar informed that ‘May I Help you’ booths are being set up in all hospitals to ease the admission process. He said administrative officials are being deployed to assist Covid-affected people in getting admission in government hospitals and to manage beds in private hospitals as well. According to the health department data, three deaths each were reported from Gaya and Nalanda, taking the toll to 17 and 15 respectively. Begusarai and Patna reported two deaths each, followed by Aurangabad, Lakhisarai, Munger and Nawada which reported one death each. However, NMCH reported four deaths on Tuesday, three of them being residents of Patna. “One was a 75-year-old Nehru Nagar resident. He died on Monday night of cardiac arrest, another was a 65-year-old male of Karzan Suryapura. He too died of cardiac arrest,” said hospital’s epidemiologist-cum-nodal officer (reporting cell) Dr Mukul Kumar Singh. Two other deceased were from Rohtas and Jehanabad each and both had a medical history of diabetes. AIIMS-Patna reported two deaths and both the deceased were Patna natives. Hospital’s Covid-19 in charge Dr Sanjeev Kumar informed that one was an 80-year-old man from Haroon Colony and another was a 44-year-old man from Badhai Tola in East Ramkrishna Nagar. According to the health department, other districts which reported a large number of cases are Muzaffarpur (199), Gaya (145), Nalanda (128), Saran (120), Buxar (94), Vaishali (87) and Bhojpur (86). The health department further stated that 1,376 people have recovered in the past 24 hours, taking the total recoveries to 29,220 and recovery rate to 67.30%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-tally-touches-43k-in-bihar-as-testing-figures-rise/articleshow/77227262.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 29, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Now, carrom board games at care centres to beat isolation stress||BENGALURU: With Covid-19 patients battling stress, the state government has resorted to board games – quite literally – to help them exorcise their fears. Asymptomatic patients at the newly established Covid Care Centre (CCC) at Veterinary College, Hebbal, have been provided carrom boards to keep them occupied. The 280-bed CCC was inaugurated by housing minister V Somanna on Monday. The minister played a game of carroms to mark the opening. Facilities such as television and space for yoga sessions have been provided in a bid to help patients beat the stress. Speaking to TOI later, Somanna said, “There are people dying of heart attacks and committing suicide immediately on knowing they have been infected and many go into shock. We are trying to ensure their stay at CCCs is be panic-free. To ease fears, we have put in many carrom boards so that they can play and relieve the stress.” He went on to say, “We will establish another five or six CCCs across the city soon to treat asymptomatic patients. We are aiming to do it constituency wise which will help patients as well. MLAs and corporators can also supervise things in their respective wards which will ease pressure on existing facilities like BIEC CCC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/now-carrom-board-games-at-care-centres-to-beat-isolation-stress/articleshow/77226619.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Nashik||646 booked for not following safety norms||Nashik: As many as 646 people were booked by the city police on Monday for not following lockdown-related norms, including maintaining social distancing and wearing face masks. Police said that the action against such rule-breakers will continue all over the city and that they will book every person who is founding violating the orders issued under the Epidemic Prevention Act. This includes citizens, shopkeepers, motorists and autorickshaw drivers. According to police, while cognizable offences was registered against some people, non-cognizable offences were also registered against a few. Of the 646 people, 329 were booked for failing to wear face masks while moving around in public. Senior police officials said that they were spreading awareness all over the city through the public address (PA) system attached to police vehicles, yet many choose to neglect the repeated warnings and instructions, forcing police to book them under Section 188 of the IPC for not adhering to the orders duly promulgated by a public servant. Police officials said that ever since the lockdown began, they have taken action against 16,078 people for not wearing masks in public. In addition, four Nirbhaya mobile squads also swung into action against those failing to follow lockdown norms. Police officials said that they were also taking stringent action against erring motorists. Until July 26, the city traffic branch fined erring motorists to the tune of Rs 1.83 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/646-booked-for-not-following-safety-norms/articleshow/77226579.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 29, 2020||Goa||Supplementary exam from Sept 3, centres to be increased||Panaji: The supplementary exam for Class X students has been tentatively been planned from September 3, chairman of Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Ramkrishna Samant said on Tuesday. The supplementary papers can also be answered by those students who found themselves stranded outside Goa when the public exam was held from May 21 to June 6. “The tentative date for commencement of the September 2020 examination, also known as the supplementary exam is September 3. This schedule is subject to review of the pandemic situation and circumstances in Goa at that time and the guidelines of the government,” said Samant. To be able to maintain social distancing during conduct of the exam, Samant said that the number of centres for the exam has been increased. “Earlier, we used to hold the supplementary exam across five centres. Now there will be one in each taluka. The names of the centres will be notified at a later stage. The centres will be located at Margao, Canacona, Quepem, Panaji, Sakhali, Bicholim, Ponda, Pernem, Tisk-Dharbandora, Valpoi, Vasco and Mapusa,” he said. To be eligible to answer the September exam, students should have the remark ‘Needs Improvement’. “The supplementary exam can be answered by all students who found themselves stranded and unable to answer the examination held between May 21 and June 6. They will also be permitted to answer this examination as a special case,” Samant said. Those students who desire to improve their marks can also answer the September 2020 examination under the ‘Improvement of Marks Scheme’, he said. The board has also said that when it comes to applying for verification of marks based on the May-June Class X exam, students will not be able to apply for both verification of photocopy of answerbook and verification in absentia. Similarly, students cannot apply for both re-evaluation and verification of marks in absentia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/supplementary-exam-from-sept-3-centres-to-be-increased/articleshow/77229487.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Lucknow||Report: Action against fake teachers is not satisfactory||Lucknow: Action taken against fake teachers identified by SIT and STF during a document-verification drive in 20 districts is far below satisfactory, showed a progress report issued by the basic education department. Districts that took measures like issuing recovery notices to sacked teachers didn’t get support from their divisional offices—a cause of major worry—as pointed out by the state project director for Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan Vijay Kiran Anand in the report. Last month, several imposters were found working in Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas, residential schools for girls from weaker sections, on the basis of academic records of one Anamika Shukla. On June 15, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had ordered a statewide drive by a dedicated team to check documents of government teachers across the state. Since then, all three education departments—basic, secondary and higher—have been verifying the academic records of their teachers. According to the report, districts where action taken was not up to the mark include Agra, Mainpuri, Ayodhya, Ambedkar Nagar, Mau, Azamgarh, Ballia, Aligarh, Kasganj, Etah, Basti, Sant Kabir Nagar, Siddharthnagar, Balrampur, Kushinagar, Baghpat, Meerut, Bulandshahr, Bijnor and Rampur. A quick review of KGBVs showed that in 21 districts—Prayagraj, Rae Bareli, Aligarh, Mathura, Meerut and Unnao to name a few—many posts were vacant. The enrolment of girls in KGBVs in as many as 56 districts was reported not satisfactory. Directions have been issued to BSAs and district coordinators (girls’ education) in these districts. In KGBVs in 29 districts, only 50% teachers are attending school. The report, based on video interaction and feedback from assistant directors (basic education) on various departmental schemes and activities, found that over 60% schools in 25 districts have not started any work under Operation Kayakalp, a mission by the Yogi-led government to improve infrastructure in government schools. Gorakhpur, Amethi, Kanpur, and Lucknow are among them. The pace of work under Operation Kayakalp was reported absolutely unsatisfactory in 12 districts, including Prayagraj, Gorakhpur, Gonda and Agra. The Centre in 2017 had issued a National School Safety Policy but in UP no monitoring was done at divisional level into the work by districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/report-action-against-fake-teachers-is-not-satisfactory/articleshow/77230325.cms||Isha Jain
July 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab government asks PGI to audit tests of Jalandhar hospital||JALANDHAR: Punjab health department has written to PGIMER, Chandigarh to conduct audit of RT-PCR testing being done by Patel hospital in Jalandhar, which has been reporting high positivity rate of Covid-19 tests. Special secretary, health and family welfare Isha Kalia wrote to the PGI director saying that Patel hospital is conducting RT-PCR tests for Covid-19 and 26.34% positivity rate has been reported in samples tested by them. “This is very high as compared to other government/private institutions. It is requested that PGI may conduct audit of their lab being a QA/QC designated lab for them,” she wrote, adding that the district administration shall choose 10 random positive samples and five random negative samples for the audit. According to the details released by the district administration, there are a total of six labs in Jalandhar with positivity rates ranging from 2.29% to 9.72% but Patel Hospital has reported positivity rate of 26.34%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/govt-asks-pgi-to-audit-tests-of-jalandhar-hosp/articleshow/77229483.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Nashik||Campaign to rope in elected reps begins||Nashik: The Nashik zilla parishad (ZP) kicked off its campaign of roping in people’s representatives in the fight against Covid-19 with the first meeting held at the Nashik Panchayat Samiti office on Tuesday. The elected representatives and ZP officials brainstormed on the measures to create a movement to stop the spread of Cocid-19 in Nashik taluka. “There are 172 active Covid-19 cases in Nashik bloc. The aim should be to bring it to zero,” said the elected representatives. Among the measures that came up during the meeting were creating containment zones in the village areas to curb the infection spread, making use of masks mandatory in the containment zones, observing social distancing, not allowing people to move out of containment zones, and not letting people from outside enter the containment zones.It was also decided to create corona committees at the village level. Officials said that the presence of elected representatives was extremely important as once they knew about the measures that need to be taken to curb the spread of Covid-19, they could pass on the information to the general public.  ZP health officer Kapil Aher said that such meetings would be held in all the talukas of the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/campaign-to-rope-in-elected-reps-begins/articleshow/77226607.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Worst day of pandemic in Punjab: 612+ve, 19 die||CHANDIGARH: For the third consecutive day, Punjab recorded the highest single-day spike in number of Covid-19 cases on Tuesday as 612 people were confirmed to be infected. It also reported the highest number of deaths due to the virus in a day, as 19 people succumbed to the disease, taking the number of fatalities to 46 in three days. As many as 16 police personnel were among those who tested positive in the last 24 hours, according to the state government’s Covid-19 health bulletin released in the evening. The state has so far registered 14,378 cases with a total of 336 deaths. When this report was filed, 19 patients were in critical condition and being treated in ICU. A total of 688 patients were discharged after they recovered, taking the tally for discharged patients to 9,752. Entries of two patients, who had come from other states to Punjab for treatment and one duplicate entry recorded in the tally on July 27, were removed. Six deaths were in Ludhiana, three each in Patiala, Sangrur, Amritsar and Tarn Taran, and one in Hoshiarpur. For the second day in running, Ludhiana contributed a maximum number of 142 cases. Of them, 68 were contacts of positive cases and 38 patients were found to be co-infected with influenza-like illness (ILI). Amritsar reported 73 cases, including 43 contacts of positive cases and 29 co-infected with ILI. In Patiala, 66 people were found to be infected with the virus. In Ferozepur, 37 patients were found to be positive, while 35 cases were from Bathinda. As many as 30 cases each were from Sangrur and Mohali, 26 from Ropar, 24 from Kapurthala, 22 from Fazilka, 17 from Moga, 14 from Tarn Taran, three cases each from Pathankot and Fatehgarh Sahib, two each from Hoshiarpur, Faridkot and Nawanshahr, and one each from Muktsar, Barnala and Mansa. Of the 43 cases of contacts in Amritsar, 31 are from central jail and seven from Border Security Force (BSF) headquarters at Attari. The three patients who died in the district are aged 45, 59 and 75. All three of them had comorbidities, including hypertension, diabetes and asthma. (Inputs from Amritsar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/worst-day-of-pandemic-in-punjab-612ve-19-die/articleshow/77229475.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Nashik||Onion farmers begin missed call agitation||Nashik: Onion farmers across the state on Tuesday launched an agitation of giving a missed call to Union and state ministers seeking procurement of onions at Rs 2,000 per quintal. Farmers also spoke to over a dozen of MPs on phone, including NCP MP Amol Kolhe, BJP’s Bharti Pawar from Dindori and Shiv Sena’s Hemant Godse. They also tried to speak to the state agriculture minister Dada Bhuse, but he was on a tour in Dhule district and they had to convey the message through his PA. “The mobile phones of most of the union and state ministers were switched off. We had telephonic conversations with around 13 MPs. Some of them assured to look into the issue,” said Bharat Dighole, president of Maharashtra state onion farmers’ association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/onion-farmers-begin-missed-call-agitation/articleshow/77226626.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 29, 2020||Chandigarh||UT: Take feedback from parents before reopening schools||CHANDIGARH: The UT education department has asked all government schools’ principals and heads to seek feedback concerning reopening of schools from parents. In a communication, which was sent to all school principals by the department, it was stated that according to the directions received from the ministry of human resource development (MHRD) to furnish feedback from parents of schoolchildren, which needs to be submitted by July 30. Schools have been asked to get feedback on three points - period when parents will be comfortable with reopening of schools i.e. August, September or October 2020; expectations of parents from schools as and when they re-open and any other feedback parents want to give to the authorities concerned. The schools were asked to get the feedback on e-mail. Meanwhile, a few parents whose wards study at Saupin’s School, Sector 32, Chandigarh, complained to the Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights that they were asked to deposit fee by July 31. Meanwhile, without waiting for the decision of the fee regulatory committee, the management of Saupin’s School, through constant reminders, has threatened parents of serious and immediate action against their wards if they fail to deposit full fees by July. Parents alleged that this is amounting to mental cruelty and is affecting the mental well-being of children as well as threatening their right to education. Amarbir Sindhu, director principal, Saupin’s School, Sector 32, said a reminder message to deposit the fees was sent to all parents in which the deadline was given to those who have not deposited the fees yet. He said the school is acting as per the directions given by Chandigarh administration on fee. He said if any parent fails to deposit the fees by July 31, the school will charge late fees. When contacted Harjinder Kaur, chairperson, CCPCR, said the school has to follow the order of the court. She said she has not seen the complaint yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-take-feedback-from-parents-before-reopening-schools/articleshow/77229496.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Goa||Only 50% of Goa’s green cover is forest area: Sawant||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said that only 50% of the state’s forest cover is referred to as “recorded forest area” in the India State of Forest Report 2019. “As per the India State of Forest Report 2019, released by Forest Survey of India (FSI), Dehradun, the forest cover of Goa is 2,237sqkm out of which 1,225sqkm is recorded as forest area,” Sawant stated in a written reply in the assembly. According to the report, forest area is area recorded as forest in government records, which is also referred to as “recorded forest area”, whereas forest cover refers to all lands, more than one hectare in area, with a tree canopy density of more than 10%, irrespective of ownership and legal status and such lands may not necessarily be a recorded forest area. It also includes orchards, bamboo and palm. Speaking on private forests, Sawant said that the demarcated area for these as on date is 41.20sqkm and an additional 3.87sqkm has been identified by the committee headed by joint secretary revenue, but it is subjudice. He said another 32.29sqkm area, provisionally identified by Thomas and Araujo Committee, is under review by the committee headed by chief conservator of forests. Sawant said that the taluka-wise details of forest areas are not maintained by the forest department. The chief minister said that a draft management policy for private forest was sent to the Union environment ministry for approval in July 2015, but the ministry did not approve it. He said that the ministry in its reply said that it is not feasible to permit any non-forestry activities in private forest without obtaining requisite permission under the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980. Sawant said that there is no parcel of land that has been taken out from private forests on provisional basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/only-50-of-goas-green-cover-is-forest-area-sawant/articleshow/77229498.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Kolkata||Med College principal transferred||Kolkata: Manjushree Ray, the principal of Medical College Hospital, Kolkata, has been transferred to RG Medical College. Manju Banerjee, who had superannuated as the principal of Murshidabad Medical College recently, has been brought in to be the principal of Medical College Hospital, Kolkata, which has been functioning as a tertiary-level Covid hospital since the beginning of June. Resident doctors of Medicial College had earlier agitated, demanding non-Covid services along with Covid facility. The hospital had to give in to the pressure. Though officials termed it a routine transfer, sources questioned the need to replace Ray by re-employing a retired government doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/med-college-principal-transferred/articleshow/77228304.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Mumbai||Kalyan Dombivli municipal corporation acts against Covid hospital for ‘overcharging’||Kalyan Dombivli municipal corporation cancelled classification of a hospital as a Covid-19 facility and suspended its licence for a month, after it allegedly failed to respond to civic audit objections on overcharging patients. It said A&G hospital at Suchak Naka charged “unreasonably high” for services and medicines in 19 bills and was told to refund Rs 9 lakh by August 31 to recovered patients. The hospital was classified to treat Covid patients by KDMC and was directed to levy government-approved rates but it allegedly faltered. “An audit team analysed bills of patients and found lapses, so we issued notices. The hospital was told not to admit new patients and to refund excess money. Its licence will be suspended till it does,” a civic official said. Officials will monitor the situation. Hospital officials were not available for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kdmc-acts-against-covid-hospital-for-overcharging/articleshow/77228762.cms||Manoj Badgeri
July 29, 2020||Madurai||Kodaikanal police register case against actors Vimal, Soori||Dindigul: The Kodaikanal police on Monday registered a case against Tamil film actors Vimal and ‘Parotta’ Soori following an uproar by locals over the duo’s visit to the hill station violating Covid-19 lockdown norms. The actors visited Kodaikanal without obtaining e-passes, which have been made mandatory for inter-district travel in Tamil Nadu during the lockdown. Vimal is native of a village near Manapparai in Trichy district while Soori is a native of Madurai. The two had visited a few places in Kodaikanal with the help of some locals. They were caught by forest department officials for trespassing into restricted forest areas and imposed a fine of Rs 2,000 each. Forest sources said the duo had been involved in fishing in the Berijam lake located in the upper parts of the hills. Locals said forest department officials had gone soft on the actors, as there were instances where fine for trespassing went up to Rs 40,000. They have urged officials to ensure that no one reaches the hill station without e-pass. Although the first Covid-19 case was reported only in the first week of June, ever since the number has been increased rapidly now with around 150 reported so far. Kodaikanal deputy superintendent of police Aathmanathan said the duo were booked under two sections for visiting without an e-pass and act likely to spread infection. Police sources said the cases against the actors were bailable in nature and there was no need to arrest them. The duo visited the hill station on July 17. However, the incident came to the notice of locals only a week later, after the photos of the actors were shared on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kodaikanal-police-register-case-against-actors-vimal-soori/articleshow/77230941.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Shimla||Three Army jawans among 60 new patients in Himachal Pradesh||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh reported 60 positive cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, including 27 from Sirmaur district, seven from Chamba, five from Una, four each from Kangra, Solan, Shimla and Mandi, three from Bilaspur, and two from Hamirpur. Also, 18 patients recovered, including six from Shimla district, three each from Hamirpur and Kinnaur, two each from Kullu and Kangra, and one each from Una and Mandi. Total number of positive cases in the state has now increased to 2,330, of which 1,067 cases are active, 1,234 patients have recovered, while 12 have died.A total of 1,37,251 persons had been tested for Covid-19 in the state till Tuesday. Of these, 1,34,209 have been tested negative, while results of 712 samples were awaited. In Chamba district positive cases include two Army jawans while remaining cases have been reported from Churah and Kihar areas. A woman and her daughter from Jakhu area of Shimla, who returned from Delhi, also tested positive. In Mandi district, an Army jawan from Chachiot, who had returned from Leh on July 12, and a 49-year-old woman have been tested positive. Solan district has reported maximum 567 positive cases, of which 384 are active, 177 have recovered and six have migrated out. Kangra has second highest number of positive cases at 430, of which 112 are active, 313 have recovered, three have died, while two have migrated out of the state. Hamirpur has third highest number of 302 positive cases, of which 20 are active, 279 have recovered, while 3 have died. Sirmaur district has 300 positive cases, of which 237 are active, 55 have recovered, one has died, and seven have migrated out of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/3-army-jawans-among-60-new-patients-in-hp/articleshow/77229493.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Nagpur||6 Covid deaths in dist, 1 in Akola as Vidarbha sees 389 new cases||Nagpur: With six Covid-19 deaths in Nagpur on Tuesday taking toll of district to 99 and Vidarbha region’s to 340, total Covid-19 cases reached 12,948. After reporting 400-plus cases from July 22 to 26 and 555 on July 27, the number came under 400 for the first time in last six days to 389. On the other hand, 367 patients recovered in Vidarbha on Tuesday taking recovery rate up to 67% again.Nagpur once again reported highest cases in a day among Vidarbha’s 11 districts. With Nagpur (151), Amravati (67), Buldhana (41), Yavatmal (40), Gadchiroli (38), Chandrapur (24), Wardha (13), Washim (8), Bhandara (6), and Gondia (4) the total reached 12,984. On recovery front too Nagpur led with 102, followed by Gadchiroli (77), Amravati (60) Wardha (29), Buldhana (26), Chandrapur (25), Yavatmal (16), Washim (9), Gondia (1), Bhandara (1). There have been total 8,696 recoveries so far. Vidarbha’s recovery rate is better than Maharashtra’s 60% and national average of 64%. Even if the number of total patients under treatment in region increased to 3,948, the percentage reduced to 30% of total cases. This used to be around 33% till Monday. This means, more patients are returning home after recoveries. Case fatality rate in Vidarbha continued at 2.6% which is less than Maharashtra state’s 3.6% and slightly more than national average of 2.25%. AMRAVATI: Crossing 1,800 mark, the district Covid count reached 1,838 with a spike of 67 cases on Tuesday. For the second successive day, the district recorded more recoveries than admissions as 60 patients got discharge today to take the count of recovered patients to 1,300. This left 472 active cases, including 15 taking treatment in Nagpur.Amravati rural reported 12 cases today, five of them coming from Kurha in Teosa tehsil, to take the rural count to 350. Chandur Bazar tehsil reported two while Daryapur, Nandgaon Khandeshwar, Warud, Walgaon and Paratwada reported one each.Hotspot Badnera reported eight cases while Dussera Maidan gave six to take its count to ten. Three cases each came from Rajapeth and Masanganj. Vilas nagar and Krishnarpan colony on Kathora Road reported two cases each. Gopal Nagar, Amba Gate and Camp posted their 15th case today while Khaparde Bagicha posted its sixth and Yashoda Nagar its seventh. Sai Nagar and Itwara Bazar posted their fifth case today while Sanjay Gandhi Nagar its fourth. Navsari posted its third case while Amle Layout its second. Deshpande Layout in Teosa Gin here also gave its first two cases.Radiant Hospital, Bhatwadi nagar, Asma colony, Pushpak colony and Patwa Chowk in Morbag gave their first Covid case.AKOLA: A 54-year-old woman from Kawsa-Dahihanda in rural Akola died during treatment on July 28 taking total Covid-19 deaths in Akola district to 111. She was admitted since July 8. Akola recorded 10 new cases with which total number of cases reached 2,488 here. Total 21 patients got discharge taking recoveries to 2,031. Akola’s recovery rate is 81% now. It conducted 211 RT-PCR tests and 268 rapid antigen tests on Monday. District civil surgeon Dr Rajkumar Chavan has launched new Covid-19 helpline numbers: 0724-2421718 and 9403751173 for residents of Akola district on Tuesday. BULDHANA: Total 329 Covid-19 tests were done in Buldhana on Monday. Total 41 of them tested positive taking total cases in district to 1,101. Buldhana reported no death on Monday. On the other hand, 26 patients recovered and were discharged. With this, 688 have recovered from Buldhana. Now, 386 are under treatment. YAVATMAL: On the sixth consecutive day, Yavatmal recorded 40 new positive patients. Five of them are from Pusad, three are from Darwha and one is from Digras. Total 16 patients were discharged and 324 are under treatment. Meanwhile, district collector MD Singh has imposed total lockdown on Pusad and Digras till July 31. Earlier, he imposed a lockdown on Yavatmal city, Pandharkawda, Ner and Darwha and the adjoining areas till July 31. Though the shops remained closed, movement of people is going on. WASHIM: Nine patients recovered here while eight new patients were detected. Total number of cases reached 539 with 327 recoveries and 10 deaths. Now, 202 are under treatment. BHANDARA: With six new patients from Bhandara and Tumsar tehsils, total cases reached 240. One patient recovered and was discharged. With two deaths reported earlier this month, total 49 are under treatment of which two have been referred to Nagpur. Bhandara has started conducting rapid antigen tests too. Till date, 1,352 rapid antigen tests were conducted. Total 13 of them detected positive. GONDIA: An Assam returnee and a native of Fulchur of Gondia is among four new cases. Covid-19 cases reached 258. One patient was discharged. Number of containment zones has increased to 32. With three deaths reported earlier, Gondia now has 29 patients under treatment. GADCHIROLI: A record 78 patients recovered and were discharged from Gadchiroli on July 28. All of them are SRPF jawans. With this, total 333 patients have recovered from Gadchiroli. On Tuesday, 38 new patients, including 35 police jawans and three civilians were detected positive. Total cases reached 556. With one death reported earlier, now 222 patients are under treatment. WARDHA: While 13 new patients tested positive, Wardha’s total cases reached 188. With 14 on Monday and 15 on Tuesday- Total 29 patients got discharge. Six deaths have been registered in the district so far. Total 53 patients are under treatment. Out of 13 new cases, highest eight were from Arvi, two each from Wardha and Pulgaon while one is from Samudrapur. Positive patients include an 82-year-old woman from Arvi. CHANDRAPUR: With the addition of 24 new patients, the Covid-19 tally in Chandrapur climbed up to 447. In all, 286 patients have been discharged so far, while 161 are under treatment. Most of the newly added patients belong to Chandrapur. They include four women from Chorkhidki locality, a cop and a woman from police quarters at Girnar chowk, a youth from Rajiv Gandhi Nagar, a six-year-old boy and girl from Jagannath Baba Nagar, a woman from Girnar chowk, a person from Tukum locality and another from Ram Nagar in Chandrapur city. Apart from this, a person each from Ballarpur, Nakoda, Rajura, Bodha in Bramhapuri tehsil and Kevda in Chimur tehsil also tested positive. Sources claimed six patients in Chandrapur are in critical condition. There has been no local death reported in district due to Covid-19 so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/6-covid-deaths-in-dist-1-in-akola-as-vidarbha-sees-389-new-cases/articleshow/77229513.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 29, 2020||Nagpur||Tiger boom in 3 reserves, areas outside PAs show good recovery||Nagpur: Tiger reserves and sanctuaries in the state are well on their way to recovery with Maharashtra’s tiger numbers going up by 122 in the last four years. Tadoba leads the way with a count rise of 32 taking its tally to 83.The non-protected areas of Chandrapur district together account for 93 tigers. The final report of All India Tiger Estimation (AITE)-2018 was released on Tuesday, the eve of Global Tiger Day, a year after the summary report was released by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. This report assesses the status of tigers in terms of spatial occupancy and density of individual populations across India.From 190 tigers in 2014, parks in Maharashtra recorded 312 tigers with analysis pegging 270 as the lower limit and 354 as the upper limit. The jump is a whopping 64%.“The number has increased as the four-year estimation exercise was conducted for the first time in some parks like Tipeshwar and Umred-Karhandla, and also in territorial areas of Central Chanda and Chandrapur divisions,” said principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) Nitin H Kakodkar.“Another major reason for the surge is the dispersal of tigers from PAs to territorial areas, and tigers adopting semi-urban and human-dominated landscapes and mining areas. They have also occupied dense green patches inside Chandrapur Super Thermal Power Station. Voluntary relocation is also one of the reasons,” said Kakodkar.As these forests serve as sink habitats to dispersing tigers from Tadoba, Kakodkar said, “The report virtually supports our idea that managing conflict in forests having human habitation, and removing conflict tigers in a timely manner is the crux of preventing retaliation.”On flared up man-animal conflicts in Tadoba landscape, the report states, “A swift, dispassionate, and professional removal of problem individual tigers — as per the protocols of National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) — is essential to permit long-term tiger occupancy in this forest-agriculture-pasture mosaic and prevent community retaliation towards the population and species as a whole.”On the stagnant tiger number of 6-7 in over 650sqkm Nagzira-Navegaon Tiger Reserve (NNTR), Kakodkar said, “We will analyse things and take corrective steps. Wildlife Institute of India (WII) will do a study on whether rise in wild dog numbers is responsible for low tiger numbers.”Barring NNTR (6) and Sahyadri (3), PAs have shown good tiger recovery. Melghat, which had 25 tigers in 2014, recorded 46 tigers. Tadoba, which had 51 tigers has recorded 83 tigers in 2018, and Pench, which had 35 tigers, now has 53 tigers.The report has introduced a new column about tigers utilizing the tiger reserves and actual number of tigers within the reserves. There is a huge gap between both the numbers. For instance, 82 tigers have been show as utilizing tiger reserve in Pench, but the actual figure is 53.“In some tiger reserves like Pench, Bandipur, Madumalai, and Satyamangalam, individual tigers could be double counted. These double counts are accounted for in estimating the tiger population at the landscape and state scale. In order to minimize double count of tigers, the estimate of ‘tigers within tiger reserves’ is to be used,” WII scientist & AITE coordinator YV Jhala said.As per the report, Tadoba maintained highest tiger density at 6.09 tigers per 100sqkm, followed by 4.87 tigers in Umred-Karhandla, 4.64 tigers in Pench, 2.50 tigers in Tipeshwar, 2.60 in Chandrapur, 2.50 tigers in Bramhapuri, 2.09 in Central Chanda territorial divisions and 1.49 tigers in Melghat.“This indicates that tiger density is good in three territorial divisions of Chandrapur, better than what it is in several tiger-bearing PAs where crores are being spent on tiger conservation. So, it is high time that more focus is given to these areas,” said Bandu Dhotre, Eco-Pro founder.State wildlife board member Kishor Rithe said, “NTCA has rated tiger reserves in Brown, Yellow and Red category as per the tigers and prey density. Of the 50 reserves in the country, 4 from Maharashtra — Bor, Pench, NNTR and Tadoba — were rated Brown. Strong efforts by the department have increased tiger occupancy in the region.”Tigers Burning BrightParks 2014 2018TATR 51 83Pench 35 53Melghat 25 46NNTR 7 6UKPWS — 11Bor 5 6Sahyadri 7 3Painganga — 1Tipeshwar — 5Umred-Karhandla — 11 Brahmapuri 27 39Central Chanda — 23Chandrapur — 31Box II2006 — 103 tigers2010 — 1682014 — 1902018 — 312||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tiger-boom-in-3-reserves-areas-outside-pas-show-good-recovery/articleshow/77229505.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 29, 2020||Chandigarh||40 Punjab cops offer plasma||CHANDIGARH: As many as 40 Punjab Police personnel, who recently recovered from Covid-19 infection, have offered to donate their blood plasma for the treatment of other patients infected with the deadly virus. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh had made an appeal to those who had recovered from Covid-19 to voluntarily donate blood plasma to help those fighting the virus. Punjab government has set up one plasma bank in Patiala and is preparing to operationalise two more to strengthen its Covid treatment network. Majority of the cops who have volunteered to donate blood plasma are from Jalandhar rural where SSP Navjot Singh Mahal himself is leading the way after his recovery from the infection. DGP Dinkar Gupta had personally reached out to the police personnel to encourage them to donate plasma after their mandatory 2-week recovery period ends if they fulfil other conditions for blood plasma donation. A special campaign had been launched to create awareness among the cured police personnel to come out for this noble cause, said the DGP. He added with many other cops still under treatment for Covid-19, he expected to see more donors coming forward over the next few days. A total of 831 Punjab cops had tested Covid positive as of July 28 of whom 336 had recovered. Of these 303 had recovered till about two weeks ago. Currently, the department has 495 active cases. Within 24 hours of the SSP Jalandhar rural coming forward to donate plasma, 40 other cops had also volunteered, said the DGP. The blood plasma of two cops – ASI Ram Lal and Punjab home guard Lakhwinder Singh – had already been taken. The DGP said all the 33 personnel recovered from Covid-19 in Jalandhar rural have committed to plasma donation and more plasma donors were coming in from the police department in other districts too. Other cops who have volunteered to donate blood plasma are from Batala, Gurdaspur and Kapurthala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/40-punjab-cops-offer-plasma/articleshow/77229508.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Chennai||430 families in slum along Cooum exposed to flood risk||CHENNAI: Nearly 430 families living along the northern side of Cooum at Sathyavani Muthu Nagar are exposed to risk of flooding should it rain heavily in the coming days. Rehabilitation process of the slum dwellers has been halted due to the pandemic. So far, 1,663 families have been shifted to Perumbakkam. One of the residents, M Muniyan, said if the river overflows, water will enter houses close to the bank. An official involved in the rehabilitation process said when Chennai River Restoration Trust (CRRT), Public Works Department (PWD) and Greater Chennai Corporation wanted to evacuate the area before March, a section of residents opposed saying 100-plus children were about to appear for board exams. “They wanted them to write the exam before being shifted. This they got time from the authorities but then the pandemic hit,” he said. S Ramakrishnan, another resident, said with rain comes dengue. “Last time it rained, slum dwellers had dengue. We want to leave Sathyavani Muthu Nagar for the Perumbakkam tenements,” he said. A senior PWD official said banks on the downstream of Cooum have been cleared of encroachments and bunds built or strengthened. “Due to these efforts the river is wider now. But the corporation and CRRT in coordination with the Slum Clearance Board should start the evacuation work before the onset of heavy rain in the city,” he said. A corporation official said they have completed enumeration and a biometric survey based on which the Slum Clearance Board has allocated tenements in the new area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/430-families-in-slum-along-cooum-exposed-to-flood-risk/articleshow/77229511.cms||P Oppili
July 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali: Elderly gets stuck in lift, no help by society||MOHALI: A 75-year-old former Air Force warrant officer got stuck in a lift at Purab Premium Apartments for 30 minutes. Mohan Singh, a resident of Block C-8 and lives on the 11th floor, went to a local market to buy medicines for his wife. When he came back, he told his wife to tell their son to come downstairs and pick-up the stuff from the vehicle. But, he himself went upstairs to his residence. “He was alone and he took the lift. When the lift reached the third floor, the electricity went off and my husband was stuck. The fan turned off and his phone didn’t have any signal. It was a nightmare for all of us,” said 65-year-old Raj Kaur, who came running to the 3rd floor from the 11th floor. She said she tried to contact residents of the society, but in vain following which she called up the officials of the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (Gmada), but they refused to help and instead told them to lodge a complaint. Earlier too, on June 15 this year, 74-year-old Surinder Singh got stuck in the lift for 30 minutes, in the same society . TOI tried to contact Gmada chief administrator, Pradeep Kumar Agrawal, but he was not available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/elderly-gets-stuck-in-lift-no-help-by-society/articleshow/77229512.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Miscreants smash windscreens of 3 cars with stones, bricks||CHANDIGARH: Miscreants smashed the windscreens of three cars in Manimajra and New Indira colony. The police have registered a case against unknown persons. Subhash Sharma , a resident of Indira Colony, reported to the police that he had parked his Maruti Alto car outside his house late on Monday night. On Tuesday, he found that the rear windscreen of his car was smashed with heavy stones. Subhash Sharma alleged that some anti-social elements consume liquor in a park during the late evening hours and they might have smashed the windscreen of his car. He reported the matter to the IT Park police. A similar incident was reported from Mansa Devi road where miscreants smashed glasses of two cars with bricks and stones. Ajay Kumar, a resident of Darshani Baag, Manimajra, reported to the police that he received a call from his neighbour that somebody smashed the windscreens of his Hyundai I-20 car. Later, he found that glasses of one more car were broken, which was parked near his car. Ajay informed the owner of that car about the incident. The miscreants had smashed the windscreens with heavy stones and bricks. Manimajra police have registered a case under relevant sections of the IPC against unknown persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/miscreants-smash-windscreens-of-3-cars-with-stones-bricks/articleshow/77229510.cms||---
July 29, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Why’s BSP chief Mayawati breaking ranks with Opposition to be soft on BJP?||LUCKNOW: It didn't come as a surprise when BSP chief Mayawati directed her six MLAs to vote against the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government in Rajasthan -- a government she had extended outside support to when it was formed less than two years ago -- in case of a floor test. Although her ties with the Congress are on a downswing since the 2018 assembly elections in MP and Rajasthan when the grand old party kept her waiting for a tie-up and eventually dumped BSP, of late she has almost broken ranks with the opposition to back the BJP-led Central government on issues like stand-off with China. At the same time, she is belligerent towards Congress, especially Rajasthan CM Gehlot, who she accuses of 'stealing her MLAs' and has demanded the President's Rule in Rajasthan. Rajasthan crisis: Live updatesExplaining her party’s decision to issue a whip to its Rajathan MLAs, all of whom defected to Congress in September 2019 and are unlikely to follow the party diktat, Mayawati on Tuesday said: “Chori ka saman chori hone par shor macha rahe hein (They are screaming after what they stole has been stolen by another). There was a conspiracy against BSP in Rajasthan in which Gehlot was involved. If the MLAs do not follow our directions, we will take the matter of their disqualification to the Supreme Court,” she said in apparent reference to Sachin Pilot's revolt, calling Congress the original thief and asking why the party high command was quiet about it. Read AlsoBSP issued whip after Mayawati's deliberation: BSP Rajasthan chiefA day after the Bahujan Samaj Party issued a whip to its six MLAs directing them to vote against the Congress in any no-confidence motion or any proceedings to be held during Rajasthan assembly session, Bhagwan Singh Baba, BSP's Rajasthan chief, on Monday said that Mayawati decided this after a lot"BSP has taken this decision after being cheated by Congress multiple times and whether their government stays or not, will be directly Congress’ fault," she said. Mayawati also addressed the criticism of her party for indirectly supporting BJP but before she reminded Congress of her support to its government, she said that as a national party, whichever party BSP aligned with, even if it was BJP, it would be for the benefit of her party and the Dalit movement. In 2018, BSP and Congress were exploring the possibility of contesting assembly elections in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, together but the deal never went through. Despite this, BSP supported the Congress in all states where it won in forming the government, saying that it was doing so to keep “communal forces out of power”. However, in the middle of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the BSP candidate contesting against Jyotiraditya Scindia in GUna joined Congress, followed by all six BSP MLAs in Rajasthan moving to Congress in September 2019, leaving a very bitter Mayawati in their wake. Mayawati’s attack against Congress has intensified over the past few months, with party insiders pointing out that in most states, the two parties share the same vote bank. “Even when there was a scope for a tie-up between them, like the 2018 assembly elections, Congress kept BSP hanging and refused to accede to any of Mayawati’s demands. Now, we are at a point that even if BJP does something wrong, Mayawati will either hold Congress guilty for it or just lightly admonish BJP,” said a senior BSP member. In June, while India and China clashed at the border, Mayawati said that her party would always side with the government on issues related to the country's welfare and security and that decisions regarding the country’s security should be left to the government. On the management of the Covid-19 pandemic, in which Mayawati has appeared to be largely satisfied with the Centre’s response, she had once asked Opposition parties to “show maturity” and work together with the Centre for the world to see. When the migrant crisis erupted, as lakhs lost jobs during the Covid-19 lockdown and many of them started heading to their home states on foot, Mayawati blames Congress for the situation. From a bitter battle against the ruling party in 2018 when it contested the Lok Sabha polls in alliance with the Samajwadi Party, the BSP chief has come a long way, having said that she will not criticise the government for the sake of criticism and will provide issue based support to it. “We have never contested an election with BJP because our ideologies are different. Contesting elections and forming a government together are two different things,” she said in June this year, holding the failure of Congress as the reason for the formation of BSP. Criticism of BJP is not absent, but often ends with an “advice” to its government to take corrective measures, “There is no longer any stinging criticism of BJP. Mayawati mostly expresses her opinion on an issue through tweets which give the impression that she is still in the Opposition but rarely do they actually hit out at the government,” said a party insider. She has been quiet about the law and order situation in UP and when she tweeted about it, she came with an advice to follow her. "Mayawati's BSP has run a government in tie-up with the BJP thrice in the past but has never had a pre poll alliance. On the other hand, BSP and Congress have contested together once in the past but have never run a government together in UP. Besides, her tie-up with the other leading party, SP, has already ended on a bitter note. So maybe she wants to keep BJP in good humour to keep her chances in 2022 elections alive," says a political analyst. Watch Why Mayawati is going soft on BJP while hitting out hard at the Congress||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/whys-maya-breaking-ranks-with-opposition-to-be-soft-on-bjp/articleshow/77230337.cms||Neha Lalchandani
July 29, 2020||Madurai||Community spread on, but no contact tracing now: MLA||Madurai: Tamil Nadu government should acknowledge that the state has gone into stage three (community transmission) of Covid-19 virus infection, instead of denying it, Thiruparakundram DMK MLA P Saravanan said on Tuesday. He also said that steps should be taken to increase testing in the state, as only 168 out of the more than 360 labs had got ICMR nod to conduct testing. Speaking to reporters in Madurai, he alleged that contact tracing was not done now, unlike earlier. Hundreds of people attend funerals of Covid victims, but they were not being tested. Insisting that there was community transmission, he cited how a 60-year-old man in Pannikondan village in his constituency, who had no travel history or come in contact with any positive person, tested positive for Covid-19 and was bedridden. “In Madurai, there are five testing centres, of which only the Madurai Medical College is a government facility, while the rest are private. This is leading to delayed results. If all 360 plus laboratories in the state are equipped for testing, many more tests could be done,” Saravanan said. He also charged the government of gross mismanagement and deliberate attempt to conceal the 444 deaths in Chennai to fudge numbers. “Due to the mismanagement of the disease, the positive cases and death rate could be much higher than what is being declared in the state bulletins,” he said. Rapid testing kits, which were not encouraged in Tamil Nadu, have an 80% accuracy rate, while the RT PCR kits have only 70% accuracy, he added. Hence, rapid kits should be used, as it could speed up the testing. “The delay in publishing results could lead to severity of the disease,” he said. Stating that the government was asking private hospitals to participate in Covid treatment, he said there was a big shortfall in the availability of lifesaving drugs like remdesivir. “The government should make drugs available at affordable cost,” the MLA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/community-spread-on-but-no-contact-tracing-now-mla/articleshow/77230950.cms||---
