July 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Flute festival hosted by Pracheen Kala Kendra||A three day online music festival titled, 'Youth Flute Festival' from July 29 to to July 31 is being organised by Pracheen Kala Kendra to commemorate 109th birth anniversary of legendary flute maestro, Pt Pannalal Ghosh. Through this festival, the budding talents are paying their tribute to the flute maestro with their music. The festival is also featuring personal interviews by maestros of Indian classical flute and music, such as Pt Nayan Ghosh, Pt Ronu Majumdar , Pt. Rajendra Prasanna , Pt Pravin Godkhindi and Pt Chetan Joshi. On the inaugural day the festival featured Shadaj Godkhindi, son and disciple of Pt Pravin Godkhindi. Shadaj is the recipient of 'Award of Excellency in Music' by Ram Seva Mandali, Bangalore. He has won 1st prize in 'Whizz Classical' a national level music completion, Mumbai. He has completed VII grade exam in drums with distinction conducted from London. He has also bagged the first prize in All India Radio Aakashvani competition and is now a ‘B’ grade artist and has performed in many prestigious music festivals across India and abroad. Shadaj chose raag Jog' , beginning with aalap followed by 'Gayaki ang based bandish' in Madhya laya set to teen tal. After this he moved on to present 'Drut teen taal bandish'. He concluded his recital with 'Ati drut jala in teen taal'. He was ably accompanied by Kiran Godkhindi on tabla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/flute-festival-hosted-by-pracheen-kala-kendra/articleshow/77249724.cms||---
July 30, 2020||India||Classes on hold, learning continues as engineering colleges fight Covid||At the height of the Covid crisis in Italy, an engineering startup saved many lives by 3D-printing respirator valves. The situation never got so dire in this coastal belt of Karnataka but still, the students and faculty of engineering colleges here have fought Covid with their ingenuity over the past four months. From simple face shields to ventilator splitters and contactless thermometers, they have been making and distributing much-needed equipment at a low cost. NIT-K, Surathkal deployed its 3D printers to fight the coronavirus. “We turned to 3D printing,” says Gangadharan K V, coordinator at the institute’s Centre for System Design. “We have already made 5,000 face shields and are making another 10,000.” While ONGC sponsored 10,000 face shields, NIT-K has made intubation tubes and 3D face masks on its own. A campus startup called Aakruthi3D Private Limited that makes foundry parts is now supplying face shields, respirator masks, ventilator manifolds and no-touch sanitary tools to hospitals and the government. Other departments at NIT-K have been making hand sanitiser and bio-safety masks. Arun M Isloor, professor and head of NIT’s chemistry department, and research scholar Syed Ibrahim have made a disinfection chamber named Zero-Cov to destroy bacteria and viruses on surfaces. Read more from this seriesAt the Mangalore Institute of Technology and Engineering in Moodbidri, students have made a low-cost automatic sanitiser dispenser and a website that provides information about the coronavirus. Sriram S, a student of mechatronics engineering who designed the dispenser, says it is portable and costs less than Rs 1,000 to make. The 3D printing centre at MAHE, which makes prostheses for children, has also designed low-cost ventilator splitters and a face shield. 3D-printed ventilator splitter from NIT-K, Surathkal.While most institutes have developed medical and hygiene equipment, NMAMIT, Nitte has made a contactless ‘theertha’ (holy water) dispenser for temples. It has been installed in the campus temple, says Santhosh, assistant professor in the department of information science and engineering who designed the device. It dispenses theertha on detecting a hand near its vent. Santhosh says it is easy to install, refill and maintain, and consumes little electricity. The department also has a device called ‘Autoflush’ for public toilets. It activates when a hand is brought close to its infrared sensor and triggers a solenoid valve to release water. For thermal screening of employees, the department has made a free-standing device called ‘Celsius’ that senses the presence of a forehead and reads out the temperature without needing an operator. (This story is part of a series in association with Facebook. Facebook has no editorial role in this story.)Watch How students and faculty of engineering colleges fought Covid with their ingenuity over past four months||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/classes-on-hold-learning-continues-as-engineering-colleges-fight-covid/articleshow/77244389.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
July 30, 2020||Nagpur||Virtual darshan and low-key celebrations at city’s sarvajanik Ganeshotsav this year||The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted almost all celebrations, and the much awaited Ganeshotsav, which will begin on August 22 is no exception. The celebrations at various sarvajanik pandals in the city are expected to be sans the usual pomp and fanfare. For instance, there will be no giant-sized Ganesha idols and elaborate pandal decorations and emphasis will be on the virtual darshan. Dhol tasha pathaks will also not be a part of the immersion processions. Many popular sarvajanik mandals are getting ready for a simple Ganeshotsav celebration and taking this occasion as a means to raise awareness on safety guidelines amid the crisis. Safety comes firstLast year, the centenary celebration of Shri Dakshinamurti Swayamsevak Ganeshotsav Mandal had become the talk of the town because of its eclectic line-up of cultural events and grand processions. “Since there will be no social-cultural activities, we don’t expect a large gathering this time. However, we have a team ready to manage the crowd, if need be. While the pandal will be closed during the day, in the evening, only 2-3 people will be allowed at a time to enter the premises. Thermal scans and wearing masks will be mandatory and the premises will be sanitised twice a day. We will have clear demarcations to ensure social distancing as well,” informs Pravin Datke, a member of the mandal, adding, "Since Ganeshotsav is an occasion for people to come together, we will connect people virtually. A few interesting webinars are planned for people of all age groups.” The festivities at Nagpur Ka Raja will also be toned down. The founder member of the mandal, Deepak Jaiswal says, “We will be installing a miniature version of our idol. We will have all the safety measures in place. At the same time, we are urging devotees to refrain from stepping out of their homes. We will be live-streaming the aarti for everyone on social media.” Emphasising on virtual darshanThe pandal decorations of Shri Ashtavinayak Bahu-uddeshiya Sanstha will be basic this year. “The idol will be installed in my private plot with simple decoration. We will allow only mandal members inside the pandal during the aarti. The general public won’t be allowed to visit,” says one of the founder members of the mandal, Munna Jaiswal. The committee members of Bharat Krida Mandal have decided to not to install the Ganesh idol at the usual venue where the footfall exceeds over 10,000 every year. Instead, it will be installed at the residence of one of the members to avoid crowding. “We have also decided to conduct a free eye check-up camp for 100 people. This will be done with prior registrations and participants will be given slots, which will be well spaced out,” informs the president of the mandal Ram Khushlani. On similar lines, a plasma donation camp will be organised at Rani Laxmibai Ganesh Utsav Mandal at Laxmi Nagar. The mandal is also organising a live virtual music concert, according to the president of the mandal, Amol Joshi. Dedicated to the corona warriors Prakash Gajbhiye, a member of Hill Top’s Ekta Ganesh Utav Mandal, is all set to bring in a Ganesha idol donning a doctor’s avatar, at the pandal. He says, “This is a small tribute to the corona warriors. The Ganesha idol will have a complete medical kit. It will be installed inside a small make-shift ‘aarogya’ temple.” Since we can’t discontinue this age-old tradition, we will install Bappa’s idol in a small room, which will be looked after by the members on a rotational basis. We will also be distributing food grain packets to the needy in the Mahal area. — Sachin Naik, president of Mahal Ka Raja||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/virtual-darshan-and-low-key-celebrations-at-citys-sarvajanik-ganeshotsav-this-year/articleshow/77250465.cms||Preeti Atulkar
July 30, 2020||India||Ashok Gehlot blinks, governor has his way on 21-day notice||JAIPUR: Blinking first in its battle of attrition with governor Kalraj Mishra over convening the Rajasthan assembly at short notice, the Ashok Gehlot government on Wednesday settled for a special House session from August 14 instead of July 31, as originally demanded, after Raj Bhavan returned three cabinet proposals in six days. Governor Mishra accepted the cabinet’s revised proposal — its fourth — late in the evening and instructed the authorities to make arrangements for the special session with adequate protection against Covid-19. Read AlsoFirst time since Rajasthan crisis began, hints of a truceWhile Gehlot suggested all would be forgiven if Pilot and the other 18 dissident MLAs apologised to the Congress high command, the disgruntled former deputy CM took to Twitter to congratulate Govind Singh Dotasra on taking over as PCC chief after his ouster.State parliamentary affairs minister Shanti Dhariwal told TOI, “We had sent our first proposal on July 23. Treating that as the starting point, we now meet the required notice period for the House to convene from August 14.” Sources in Congress said all MLAs on CM Gehlot’s side would remain corralled in the Jaipur hotel, where they have been staying for almost all of this month, till the session. Rajasthan crisis live updatesDecision on trust vote best left to speaker, BAC, says governmentThe endgame came after another roller-coaster day that seemed to be heading towards a stalemate until a meeting between the CM and the governor in the afternoon set the stage for a resolution of the dispute. “The ‘love letter’ (governor’s correspondence) has arrived. I am going to have tea with him and ask him what he wants. But you need not worry, our government is stable,” Gehlot said at an event marking Govind Singh Dotasra’s appointment as the new PCC chief. Read AlsoRajasthan assembly speaker moves SC challenging HC's status quo orderRajasthan assembly speaker C P Joshi on Wednesday moved the Supreme Court challenging the July 24 order of the high court which had directed maintenance of status quo on the disqualification notice issued to 19 dissident Congress MLAs, including sacked deputy CM Sachin Pilot. In his appeal, the“The governor’s role is just to sign; the file goes and comes back with his signature. For the first time, a governor has raised questions like this... I will make up for your loss (of time) with interest, do not worry.” While returning the cabinet’s third proposal earlier in the day, the governor had said, “If the government has taken a decision to call the assembly session deviating from the general rule, under what difficult and extreme circumstances has it been done?” Read AlsoUnfortunate that people holding responsible positions launched a campaign to sully Raj Bhawan image: Rajasthan governor Kalraj MishraRajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra spoke to Akhilesh Kumar Singh about the political crisis in the state and his delayed consent to convening the state assembly. The Rajasthan Governor was disappointed at the way a campaign was launched to sully the image of the Raj Bhawan. He said the stateThe communication from Mishra ended with a reiteration of the main condition in his “three-point advice” on Monday, “It would be proper to call a routine assembly session like the monsoon session with a notice of 21 days.” In his caveat for an assembly session at short notice, the governor had said the only way a special assembly session could be justified without 21 days’ notice was if the government explicitly stated it wanted to go for a floor test. The Gehlot cabinet had mentioned in all its proposals that it wanted a special session to discuss the ongoing pandemic, take stock of the state’s finances and pass some bills. On the governor’s conditions for a trust vote and proper social distancing inside the House, the government said these requirements were best left for the Speaker and the business advisory committee (BAC)of the assembly to decide. Soon after the announcement, Speaker CP Joshi, too, paid a courtesy visit to the governor. Watch Rajasthan governor gives nod to assembly session from Aug 14||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ashok-gehlot-blinks-governor-has-his-way-on-21-day-notice/articleshow/77251049.cms||Bhanu Pratap Singh
July 30, 2020||Business||Fund bankable projects without any fear, PM tells bankers||NEW DELHI/ MUMBAI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday urged the country’s top lenders to fund bankable projects, undeterred by the non-performing assets (NPAs) generated in the past, and promised to fully back the executives. During the meet, Modi also prodded bankers to push loans to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), farmers, micro-finance institutions and non-banking finance companies, which were provided special thrust during the package announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman two months ago. The Prime Minister reassured the assembled bankers that he was strongly behind them and they should not have any fear. He added that no banker was in jail for taking a decision in the course of his duty. Banks need to introspect, relook at practices: PMOThe PM's meeting with bankers on Wednesday came in the backdrop of concerns in the government that banks were parking funds instead of lending for productive use, which is seen to be crucial to revive growth. Bankers are risk averse as not just public sector executives but even those from the private sector, including the ICICI Bank top management, are facing corruption charges. “The crucial role of the financial and banking system of supporting growth was discussed. It was noted that the small entrepreneurs, SHGs, farmers should be motivated to use institutional credit to meet their credit needs and grow. Each bank needs to introspect and take a relook at its practices to ensure stable credit growth. Banks should not treat all proposals with the same yardstick and need to distinguish and identify bankable proposals…,” the PMO said in a statement after the meeting. On their part, bankers suggested that there was a need for assurances on cash flows from projects and that development institutions such as SIDBI and IIFCL should be providing equity capital instead of competing with banks. Banks suggested that they wanted to lend to individuals and small businesses based on data and sought support on the digital side. Currently, data on GST, income tax and credit history from Cibil database are available separately and it was proposed that this could be aggregated, which will help in faster decision making and instant processing. If there is one app for all the 50-odd government schemes, a customer can choose the scheme he is available for directly apply to the bank of his choice from the application, bankers suggested. This will ensure the straight-through processing of applications, they said. On the infrastructure side, the bank said that on large projects like roads and power, cash flow risks because of toll collections or power purchase agreements should be dealt with so that the Invit (infrastructure investment trust) structure can be used for offloading infra loans after the project is completed. Watch Fund bankable projects without any fear, PM Narendra Modi tells bankers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fund-bankable-projects-without-any-fear-pm-tells-bankers/articleshow/77251502.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Business||Rs 2.9k crore loan: Yes Bank to take over HQ of Anil Ambani||MUMBAI: Yes Bank has issued a notice of possession for Anil Ambani’s Reliance Group headquarters at Santacruz and two other offices in south Mumbai. In its notice, the bank said it was effecting recovery against a Rs 2,892-crore loan to Reliance Infrastructure. The bank’s action includes taking over two floors of office space in Nagin Mahal at Backbay under a law that allows it to sell assets of defaulters. The headquarters was situated on a 21,432-square metre plot, which was a legacy of Reliance’s acquisition of BSES two decades ago. BSES was rechristened Reliance Energy and subsequently repositioned as Reliance Infrastructure, which currently owns the property. The group shifted to the office at Santacruz in 2018. The building, off the Western Express Highway, overlooks Mumbai airport. Besides Reliance Infrastructure, it houses offices of Reliance's financial services including Reliance Capital, Reliance Housing Finance, Reliance General Insurance and other group firms. In recent months as the group shrunk its operations, most of the offices were consolidated in the North Wing, and the property was listed for lease with JLL. Following the Covid-19 lockdown, most employees were asked to work from home and there was further consolidation of office space. Yes Bank, which faced a crisis in March this year on account of bad debts, has substantial loans due from the Anil Ambani group, to which it had an exposure of close to Rs 12,000 crore. In the last two decades, the Anil Ambani group expanded aggressively in new businesses raising high levels of debt. However, the businesses did not generate the cash flows required to repay the debt. Several of them also got mired in legal disputes which made debt resolution difficult. The private bank said that it gave the company 60 days’ notice to repay the loan on May 5 under the Securitization and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest (Sarfaesi) Act 2002. As the company had failed to make any repayment, the bank had taken possession under the Act. The legislation allows banks to take possession and sell assets belonging to loan defaulters without recourse to courts. Watch Yes Bank to take over HQ of Anil Ambani||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rs-2-9k-crore-loan-yes-bank-to-take-over-hq-of-anil-ambani/articleshow/77251530.cms||---
July 30, 2020||India||Rendezvous with Ram: Ayodhya gets spruced up ahead of big day||NEW DELHI: The Uttar Pradesh government is planning to spruce up Ayodhya city and is exploring the possibility of additional greenfield development to cater to the needs of tourists. The number of pilgrims and tourists would increase manifold once the Ram temple construction gets completed, in the next three years, according to the administration. Some estimates suggest that the number of people visiting the temple would be close to the number of pilgrims visiting Golden Temple in Amritsar. Read AlsoAyodhya: Modi kept 1991 vow to return and build temple, says lensmanA photograph purportedly dating back to 1991 has gone viral on social media, showing PM Modi standing alongside BJP leader Murli Manohar Joshi supposedly in Ayodhya during the peak of the Ram temple movement. Mahendra Tripathi, who claims to have clicked the rare photograph, said at that time ModijiInitial discussion has started within the state administration to explore possibilities for in-situ and fresh development in the city, according to sources. They added that development of Ayodhya tops the agenda of the state as it wants to improve the city to cope up with the pressure on infrastructure. TOI has learnt that the state government would seek assistance from the Centre as well since the upgradation of existing facilities and new development would require sizeable funds. Read AlsoLord Ram's images to be displayed in Times Square to celebrate August 5 Ram Temple groundbreakingProminent community leader and President of the American India Public Affairs Committee Jagdish Sewhani on Wednesday said that arrangements are being made to celebrate the historic moment in New York on August 5, when PM Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation stone for the Ram Temple. Images ofSources said chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed officials at a meeting held on Tuesday to create the best facilities in the city. “There is a thought to make the city better for people and visitors. If we don’t start on every front including connectivity, infrastructure, beautification and facilities for tourists from now on, it would be late,” said a source. The Centre provides financial assistance to cities under AMRUT scheme for infrastructure related to improving drinking water supply, creating green open space and for sewage management. The road transport ministry has expedited the construction of all approved links to the city including the beautification of the Ayodhya bypass. Watch UP govt plans to spruce up Ayodhya with eye on future temple rush||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-plans-to-spruce-up-ayodhya-with-eye-on-future-temple-rush/articleshow/77251626.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 30, 2020||India||New education policy will make India a knowledge hub, says PM Modi||NEW DELHI: PM Modi said the New Education Policy will transform millions of lives by making India a knowledge hub in an era where learning, research and innovation are important. In a series of tweets, the PM said NEP is based on the pillars of “access, equity, quality, affordability and accountability”. “I wholeheartedly welcome the approval of the National Education Policy. This was a long due and much awaited reform in the education sector, which will transform millions of lives in the times to come ... May education brighten our nation and lead it to prosperity,” he said. He said NEP aims at universalisation of education from pre-school to secondary level with 100 % GER (Gross Enrolment Ratio) in school education by 2030. He said the policy will bring 2 crore ‘out of school’ children back into the mainstream. “Aspects such as widening the availability of scholarships, strengthening infrastructure for open and distance learning, online education and increasing the usage of technology have received great attention in NEP. These are vital reforms for the education sector,” Modi said. “A truly remarkable day in the history of Indian education system! Under the visionary leadership of PM , the Union cabinet approved 'New Education Policy 2020’, which brings in much needed historic reforms in both School and Higher Education,” said Home minister Amit Shah. “No nation in the world can excel by giving up its culture & values,” he added. BJP President JP Nadda said it was a momentous day for India as PM Modi-led cabinet approved the NEP, formulated after wide consultations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/new-education-policy-will-make-india-a-knowledge-hub-says-pm-modi/articleshow/77251698.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Vadodara||Cab driver held with IMFL||Vadodara: A driver of a cab aggregator was detained on Tuesday for ferrying Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) in Tarsali. Police said that they had received information that a person bringing a stock of liquor in a cab, based on which they had placed a watch near Anandbaug Society in Tarsali on Tuesday. When the accused Jignesh Mali arrived at a ground near the society, cops stopped him and checked his car. Some 103 liquor bottles worth Rs 30,900 were found from the car. When questioned, Mali said that he had got the liquor stock from one Nilesh Rathwa, who lives at Ghoghadev village in Chhota Udepur. Mali said that he was supposed to hand over the stock to a person named Jigar Rajput. “We have not questioned him yet as he has been kept under isolation until his coronavirus test report arrives. However, he confirmed that he drives the car for the cab company and in the past he has also worked as a food delivery man,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cab-driver-held-with-imfl/articleshow/77247436.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Patna||Expedite Rs 6,000 payment to flood-hit people: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on Wednesday asked the officials to remain prepared in all aspects to fight the twin challenges of floods and Covid-19 in state. The CM was reviewing through videoconferencing the flood situation in 12 districts and arrangements made to check further spread of Covid-19. The district magistrates of the flood-affected Sitamarhi, Sheohar, Supaul, Kishanganj, Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur, Gopalganj, East Champaran, West Champaran, Khagaria, Saran and Samastipur districts in north Bihar attended the meeting. State disaster management department (DMD) principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit informed the chief minister (CM) that an amount of Rs 6,000 as gratuitous relief to each family affected by the floods would be transferred directly in their bank accounts latest by August 10. A population of more than 38 lakh has so far been affected by the floods in 901 panchayats under 102 blocks of 12 districts, a DMD official told TOI. Amrit told the CM that the gratuitous relief amount of Rs6,000 had already been transferred to nearly 60,000 flood-affected families under the direct benefit transfer (DBT) while another 40,000 families would be provided the financial relief on July 30. The CM said all affected families must be provided relief materials as per the pre-fixed standard of procedure (SoP). He asked the officials to provide all necessary health facilities and antigen tests to all staying at the flood relief camps. He also asked for increasing the supply of antigen kits in flood-affected areas. Nitish spoke to some of the people at relief camps and inquired about the arrangements made there. They appreciated the arrangements. “There is no difficulty. We are getting cooked rice, pulses, ‘chokha’ and varieties of vegetables. The district magistrate and CO visit us. The administration has also provided me Rs6,000 and a polythene sheet. Employees of district administration are inquiring about the problems. Doctors also are visiting us,” said Shakila Khatoon from Asraha village camp under Keoti block in Darbhanga district. Earlier, the district magistrates of Darbhanga, East Champaran, Gopalganj, Saran and Samastipur informed the chief minister (CM) about arrangements made in their respective districts, regarding relief camps, community kitchens, boats, fodder for animals and medical facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/expedite-rs-6k-payment-to-flood-hit-people-cm/articleshow/77249607.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Business||Bharti Axa in talks with ICICI Lombard for merger||MUMBAI: ICICI Lombard and Bharti Axa General Insurance are exploring a proposal where the latter will merge with the former. The proposed transaction marks a continued recent consolidation in the sector, which began with the acquisition of Apollo Munich Health by HDFC Ergo and the sale of DHFL General Insurance and Raheja QBE to Sachin Bansal and Paytm, respectively. According to industry sources, if the merger goes through, ICICI Lombard stands to gain from the accumulated losses of Bharti Axa General. ICICI Lombard had reported a net profit of Rs 398 crore for the first quarter of FY21. Bharti Enterprises had been looking to sell its stake in its insurance ventures for some time. It had earlier entered into a deal with Reliance Industries to sell stake in both life and non-life companies. However, the deal fell through as both parties were unable to reach an agreement. The proposed merger is understood to value Bharti Axa at Rs 2,600-2,800 crore. Both ICICI Lombard and Bharti Axa did not respond to requests for comments. Bharti Axa did a business of Rs 509 crore in the first quarter of FY21 and has a 1.3% market share. The company had a capital base of over Rs 2,000 crore as of June 2020. ICICI Lombard recorded a premium of Rs 3,302 crore during the same period and has a 5.3% market share. The company is listed on the stock exchanges and has a market cap of Rs 59,000 crore. Although non-life insurance companies have weathered the Covid crisis better than others in the financial sector, several business segments have taken a severe beating. Motor insurance, the cornerstone of the non-life industry, has taken a hit with the collapse of new auto sales, coupled with many commercial vehicles skipping renewals because of the lockdown. Also, the expected hike in third-party premium did not materialise this year. Several other lines of business have also taken a hit because of the fall in economic activity. DHFL General Insurance has been rebranded as Navi General Insurance. Paytm is planning to do the Raheja QBE acquisition through QorQL, a startup that uses AI and big data in the health space. Bharti Axa is a joint venture with 51% stake from Bharti and 49% stake of AXA. The company has a pan-India presence through its 152 branches and offers insurance solutions for motor and two-wheeler, health & critical illness, property and student, individual & family travel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bharti-axa-in-talks-with-icici-lombard-for-merger/articleshow/77250034.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Appoint doctors through walk-in interviews, says IMA||PATNA: The Bihar branch of Indian Medical Association (IMA) has urged the health minister to fill all vacant posts of doctors through walk-in interviews for strengthening the healthcare system in the state for handling the Covid-19 pandemic. A delegation led by IMA president Dr Bimal Karak met health minister Mangal Pandey on Tuesday and apprised him of the problems coming in the way of taking care of the huge number of patients, including those tested Covid positive, from primary health centres to big medical college and hospitals because of the shortage of doctors at all levels. They said only a strong medical force would be able to save lives in this unprecedented situation caused by the Covid-19 virus. The delegation also included former IMA (Bihar) president Dr Sahjanand Prasad Singh and president-elect Dr Amar Kant Jha Amar. IMA (Bihar) secretary Dr Sunil Kumar said, “We informed the minister that only 4,500 doctors were presently working against the total sanctioned posts of 12,000. In medical colleges, too, the doctors’ total strength is about 2100 against the sanctioned posts of 4,000.” Apparently, the first priority in this challenging situation is filling up all vacant posts by adopting the shortest routes, he said. The IMA state unit further demanded exemption of all private clinics, nursing homes with up to 50 beds from registration under the Clinical Registration Act and reservation of beds for doctors falling sick due to Covid infection in the IGIMS and AIIMS-Patna. Other demands placed by the doctor’s body before the minister were immediate payment of the incentive amount announced by the government for all the doctors, supply of rapid antigen test kits at block level for maximum testing, relaxation in the ban on doctors’ leave and withdrawal of doctor’s suspension in the coronavirus times. The IMA assured all positive support to the state machinery in its stride for building strong healthcare system, added Dr Sunil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/appoint-doctors-through-walk-in-interviews-ima/articleshow/77247678.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Patna||Patna University: Online classes of new semesters from August 1||PATNA: Now that Patna University (PU) teachers have completed the syllabi of the second and fourth semesters of different postgraduate (PG) programmes, online classes of the next will begin from August 1. PU students’ welfare dean N K Jha told this newspaper on Wednesday, “Since no instructions regarding the completion of pending exams and promotion of students have been received from the chancellor’s secretariat yet, students of the second semester will be taught lessons according to the syllabi of the third. This will help us maintain the academic calendar.” The syllabi of all the undergraduate courses have also been completed in all the colleges of PU. The exams of all the theory papers, except for one, have been conducted and the answer sheets evaluated during the lockdown. “The university might have published the final results by awarding average marks to the Degree Part III students in that paper, had the examination board decided so,” said PU former vice-chancellor (VC) Rash Bihari Prasad Singh. Besides, online classes for PhD coursework in the faculty of social sciences have begun. On the other hand, the faculty of sciences is likely to start these classes in the first week of August. According to PU examination controller R K Mandal, the university cannot take a decision regarding the promotion of students from one semester to another on its own. Meanwhile, the eight-member committee, headed by Munger University VC Ranjit Kumar Verma, has reportedly recommended the framing of transitory regulations for bringing changes in the mode of examinations during the Covid-19 pandemic. The regulations are likely to authorize the universities to propose changes in the mode of examinations, their duration, and promotion of students to the next semester on the basis of the marks obtained earlier. However, the committee’s recommendations are yet to be approved by the chancellor and communicated to the universities. As things stand colleges and universities may face a lot of difficulties in conducting exams in any mode due to the rise in Covid-19 cases and the floods in north Bihar. “Students living in distant villages cannot reach the university easily to write their examinations,” said Patna University Teachers’ Association general secretary Abhay Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pu-online-classes-of-new-semesters-from-august-1/articleshow/77247797.cms||B K Mishra
July 30, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 18 doctors to be appointed on contract in West Champaran||BETTIAH: The rising Covid death toll and spike in positive cases has awoken West Champaran to the shortage of doctors and paramedics in battling the pandemic. “We are issuing advertisements to recruit 18 doctors, 18 paramedics/auxiliary nurse midwives and 10 lab technicians,” civil surgeon Arun K Sinha told this newspaper on Wednesday. The fresh recruitment would be on contract at fixed salaries of Rs65,000 for doctors, Rs12000 for lab technicians and Rs11,500 for paramedics/ANMs, he said. On Wednesday, a 17-year-old boy from Motihari and a 50-year-old from Bagaha, both positive for coronavirus, died at the Government Medical College here, thereby taking the toll to 14. The toll include the patient from Motihari and another woman from Sitamarhi, who succumbed last week. Meanwhile, the civil surgeon claimed that testing has been ramped up. “About 40 tests are being done everyday across the 19 PHCs and the medical college,” he said even as the number of cases mounted to 1,247 with 97 fresh detections on Tuesday evening. Meanwhile, apart from efforts to add another floor at the medical college for Covid patients, a 100-bed facility is being set up at Narkatiaganj. “The Bagaha sub-divisional hospital being under floodwaters, we are setting up the Covid facility at the indoor stadium there,” Sinha said. “We have further expanded our services by giving medical kits to patients in home isolation. Each kit includes 10 tablets of Arithromycin 500mg, 20 vitamin C and 10 B-Complex vitamin capsules. The kit also has a note advising on intake of medicines plus a pamphlet with Dos and Don’ts with advice on Ayurvedic support on its reverse,” he said, adding that tele-counselling has become functional from a ‘Dedicated Command & Control Room’. “An MBBS doctor and an Ayush doctor are manning this 24X7 in 8-hourly shifts,” he said. “To bolster telemedicine advice, we’ve also set up a call centre with WhatsApp calling facilities,” the civil surgeon added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/18-docs-to-be-appointed-on-contract-in-w-champaran/articleshow/77247771.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
July 30, 2020||Patna||Patna: No tableau on Independence Day this year||PATNA: The Independence Day programme at Gandhi Maidan will be a low key affair this time. There will be no tableau and common people will be not be allowed to enter the venue. Even children will not participate in the parade. All districts have been advised by the cabinet secretariat department to ensure social distancing during the flag hoisting ceremony and curtail all cultural programmes. Patna district magistrate Kumar Ravi said, “The flag hoisting ceremony will be held as usual at the Gandhi Maidan but no tableau will be showcased. The number of guests to be invited has also been reduced and commoners will not be allowed inside.” A letter issued by the cabinet secretariat department to the additional chief secretary, principal secretaries, secretaries, divisional commissioners and DMs on Tuesday stated that only special guests and senior officials will be invited and invitation has to be sent through e-card. “Keeping the Covid-19 pandemic in view and to ensure social distancing, the number of guests has been reduced to one-fourth to one-sixth this year. Only very important guests and senior officials should be invited and Patna divisional commissioner and DM will identify their sitting arrangements,” according to a letter issued by the cabinet secretariat department special secretary Mithilesh Kumar. The cabinet secretariat department has asked the IPRD and the Information & Technology department to arrange for live telecast of the Independence programme from Gandhi Maidan so that people can watch sitting at their homes and the divisional commissioner and DM have been told to coordinate with the departments concerned. Instructions have also been given not to invite freedom fighters and senior citizens in this programme. Even guests from other states will not be invited. The home department has been asked to figure out social distancing in the parade and not to allow NCC and scout this time as children are involved in it, while the health department has been tasked to properly sanitize the vvenue and arrange for thermal screening of the guests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-tableau-on-i-day-this-year/articleshow/77247679.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 30, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Hilsa still out of reach, mustard oil, chilli too hot to touch as rates go through roof||KOLKATA: Hilsa, Bengal’s favourite fish, has been eluding the Bengali platter this season. What’s worse is that prices of basic ingredients for even a plain hilsa curry have shot up, with packaged mustard oil going for around Rs 130-Rs 140 a litre and green chilli breaching the Rs 250/kg barrier. Ginger, too, has touched Rs 180/kg mark. Back-to-back lockdowns, social distancing norms and prohibitive diesel price have caused the crisis. In the deep sea, fishermen have to practically chase schools of hilsa to catch them. But spiralling diesel prices prevented them from doing so this season, said Bijon Maity, secretary of West Bengal Fishermen’s Association. Transportation issues have also affected supply. “If the catch is good, there is a point in transporting them to the city markets. If the catch is small, it is better to sell them off in the local markets. The cost of transportation is too high and the catch has been small this time,” said Gaouranga Basak, a trader at Diamond Harbour Fisheries Port. Even in the midst of monsoon, hilsa is nowhere to be seen in the city markets. The smaller variety or khoka ilish — catching of which is banned — is selling at a premium. “They are less than 400g in weight, yet are selling at Rs 1,000/kg,” said Ambika Bandyopadhyay, who loves to have the fish on his platter. The price of mustard oil is also at an all-time high. “Bengal is not a mustard producing state. It is generally brought from Haryana and Rajasthan. The lockdown and consecutive spikes in diesel price has made it costlier. The oil mills in Bengal are not getting rough raw materials and the prices are unlikely to dip before the next harvesting,” said Biswanath Agarwal, general secretary of Posta Merchants’ Association. The price of green chilli has shot past Rs 250 and is moving towards the Rs 300/kg mark. This is an all-time high. The Beldanga variety, which is sought after because of its pungency, has become especially expensive. “The Beldanga variety is set to touch the Rs 300/kg mark in retail markets,” said Kamal Dey, president, West Bengal Vendors’ Association. Price of ginger, which was Rs 70-Rs 80/kg even a fortnight ago, is now set to cross Rs 200. It was being sold at Rs 180 per kg across the city markets on Tuesday. “A delectable hilsa dish is very expensive, though its demand in hotels and restaurants is very low. This shows how deep the scarcity is,” said Manjula Goswami, a culinary expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hilsa-still-out-of-reach-mustard-oil-chilli-too-hot-to-touch-as-rates-go-through-roof/articleshow/77249723.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
July 30, 2020||Patna||Academics welcome new education policy||PATNA: The Union cabinet on Wednesday approved the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 to revamp the education system from school to college level. It had received a mixed reaction from academics in the state. Former vice-chancellor of Patna University, Rash Bihari Prasad Singh said higher education should poses global character. “Competitiveness will be established when our students and teachers go to reputed foreign universities and come here from abroad. Bihar universities will also get this opportunity under the new policy,” he said. “A multidisciplinary system of global standards in the country will further boost the education system as students would have the liberty to choose subjects as per their skills like in the European countries,” Singh said, adding that it was the major revamp in education sector after the education policy made by Lord Macaulay in 1835. Former principal of Patna College, NK Choudhary, however, opined the educationally backward states like Bihar should get special care under the policy. “There are some states which have better higher educational institutes while some have only few. The Centre needs to create special education zones for backward states. It was mentioned in the draft policy, but is missing in the NEP passed today,” he said. He also pointed out that public spending on education should be more than 6% of the GDP. Choudhary said single regulator for the higher education sector would go against the idea of decentralization and democratization of educational administrative structure. He, however, appreciated a few changes in the education system like aiming 50% Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) by 2030 and gender fund. Abha Choudhary, a senior teacher of Notre Dame Academy, said the change in the pedagogical structure of 10+2 system to 5+3+3+4 is good. “It means that five years (Nursery to Class II) of education in schools will now come under Montessori section, which is good as this is the learning period for kids. The policy also says the board will encourage knowledge application rather than rote, which is also a welcome step,” she said. Education specialist at UNICEF (Bihar), Pramila Manoharan, appreciated the policy as a whole. “The policy is wonderful as far as the school education is concerned. With major focus on foundational learning, the issue of learning deficiency in the country will be addressed. The policy also promotes regional languages and mother tongue. It will also promote vocational training and sports. There is also emphasis on the education of children with disabilities,” said Pramila.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/academics-welcome-new-education-policy/articleshow/77256325.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 30, 2020||Patna||Avoid gatherings on Eid-ul-Zuha: Bihar DGP||PATNA: DGP Gupteshwar Pandey has directed all the SSPs and SPs to request the religious leaders to encourage people to celebrate Eid-ul-Zuha (Bakrid) at home in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. He has also directed the officers to encourage people not to offer namaz in gatherings. Pandey, in his letter on Tuesday, directed all the subordinates to intensify patrolling and ensure that no public event takes place in the backdrop of the Centre’s guidelines on religious programmes. He has asked the officers to also create an awareness among people to follow the norms of social distancing. He has asked the SDPOs, circle inspectors and SHOs to take steps to resolve any dispute by visiting the spot. “Monitor areas having mixed population with the help of drones as per availability. Form early morning checking police parties in all police station areas. Any objectionable banner-poster be removed immediately besides taking legal action,” he wrote. “Ensure effective measure for curbing cow slaughter or smuggling. Ban animal sacrifices in open places and transportation of meat from non-minority areas. Maintain extra alertness as Bakrid is expected to coincide with the last Monday of the month of Shrawan,” he wrote. Pandey had also directed that police pickets be set up along with deputing magistrates in sensitive areas as per requirements and old disputes related to animal sacrifice or namaz offering be resolved before time. “Activate local intelligence collection units so that inputs be collected on all such things which can affect the law and order,” the DGP wrote. He has also directed the police officers to strictly monitor the social media platforms and instant chat messenger apps and take legal action against those found spreading misinformation. The officers have been asked to identify the sensitive places and must patrol such areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/avoid-gatherings-on-eid-ul-zuha-dgp/articleshow/77247703.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 30, 2020||Patna||Urban families growing vegetables on rooftops||BHAGALPUR: Even as Corona scare looms large, some families here have started rooftop farming to fulfil the need of green vegetables while promoting the concept of ‘grow your own food’. One 46-year old Rajesh Tiwari, a postgraduate in political science from Tilkamanjhi Bhagalpur University (TMBU), who used to grow ornamental flowers and seasonal flowers on his rooftop garden since 1988, now grows green vegetables like bitter gourd (karela), tomatoes and cherry tomatoes, okra (bhindi), ridged gourd, brinjals, french beans, pumpkins etc on the 2000 square feet rooftop. “As Covid-19 cases started increasing, the thought of growing vegetables and fulfilling our daily needs came during the lockdown. This rooftop farming also plays a significant role in environment management and enhances the deteriorating quality of air while providing organic and fertilizer-free produce.,” said Rajesh, who works in a private company. He added: “During the past four-five months, we have grown all kinds of fresh organic vegetables on our rooftop garden. My family also helps in this passion and our daily needs of fresh vegetables are fulfilled from our own resources. Only potatoes and onions that have a long shelf-life are bought from the market once in a month.” Rajesh said that at times his close relatives also collect vegetables grown on his rooftop. “We have encouraged our relatives and close acquaintances also to use rooftops and balconies to grow vegetables and become self-reliant. PM Narendra Modi’s appeal to the nation to become ‘atmanirbhar’ added energy to my passion,” Rajesh added. Another rooftop garden enthusiast Raja Bose, who is Rajesh Tiwari’s neighbour, also used to grow exotic flowers and fruits in pots on his rooftop garden. But now he too has started growing fresh vegetables. “We have started a campaign to become self-reliant to some extent. We are roping in more families to grow vegetables and fruits in earthen pots. We have turned the Corona negativity into positivity,” said Bose adding challenges bring opportunities too. “In fact, rooftop farming can be a viable option for urban agriculture on account of decreasing agricultural land, especially in big cities,” added Bose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/urban-families-growing-vegetables-on-rooftops/articleshow/77247829.cms||Kumar Rajesh
July 30, 2020||Patna||Man gets second dose of Covid vaccine||PATNA: A 30-year-old man was given the second dose of ‘Covaxin’ at AIIMS-Patna on Wednesday. The vaccine is in the trial stages to prevent coronavirus. He was given 0.5ml intramuscular injection of the vaccine after all his medical test reports came normal for the second dose. The man had received the first dose on July 15. So far, 43 volunteers have received the first dose between July 15 and 18 while 37 more will get the first dose in the first phase of clinical trials in the coming days. The human trial of the vaccine has not shown any side-effect so far, claimed AIIMS-P doctors. The first indigenous BBV152 vaccine of India has been developed jointly by the National Institute of Virology-Pune and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited in collaboration with the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) at Delhi. AIIMS-Patna superintendent Dr CM Singh said all the 43 persons, who received the first dose, did not encounter any side- effect. “Three people, however, complained of pain at the spot where the injection was administered. It happens in case of any vaccine test. The man was given the second dose after he completed 14 days of the first dose,” he said. “The vaccine should be given on zero and 14 days. Seven more persons will complete their 14 days of first dose tomorrow and get the second dose,” he said. The man who received the second and last dose on Wednesday will have to visit the hospital for follow-ups on the 28th, 42nd, 104th and 194th day. The AIIMS-Patna doctors will monitor the response of the vaccination through immunogenicity testing. “We have taken the blood sample of the man to see how much antibodies were developed after the first dose,” Dr Singh said. He said they received many applications for clinical trials of Covaxin but some of them were not fit. “Before selecting people for clinical trials, we conduct blood, urine and Covid tests. If the person is found fit, then only we select him for the vaccine trial. In the first phase, we have to give vaccine to 70 people,” the superintendent said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-gets-second-dose-of-covid-vaccine/articleshow/77247480.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 30, 2020||Hubballi||5,000 beds at Covid Care Centres for asymptomatic patients in Dharwad, says DC||Dharwad: Deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil has stated that the private hospitals should not allow asymptomatic to occupy the beds reserved for symptomatic Covid patients. The administration has arranged for 5,000 beds at Covid Care Centres for treatment of asymptomatic and to those with mild symptoms, he added. Positive patients with symptoms and breathlessness should be provided treatment at the Covid unit set up in private hospitals. If any private hospital is willing to enroll under Ayushman Bharath Arogya Karnataka scheme, the administration will get them certification at the earliest, he said. The district is going through a crucial time as there has been a spike in cases but people need not fear as the health staff is working round the clock to providing good care and treatment to the positive patients. The recovery rate is also healthy here, he said. He sought co-operation and positive response from private hospitals to effectively tackle this pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/5000-beds-at-covid-care-centres-for-asymptomatic-patients-in-dharwad-says-dc/articleshow/77247942.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Patna||Civil society must act to save poor kids amid floods and pandemic in Bihar||PATNA: Bihar ranks third in the country as far as children being rescued from the traffickers are concerned, according to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data. In 2019 alone, 362 boys and 33 girls below 18 years were rescued from the traffickers. The NCRB report indicates that at least one child per day is rescued. Poverty and illiteracy are the two most propelling factors behind such high rate of child trafficking in the state. The prosecution is very weak in human trafficking cases because many of them are interstate and the existing mechanism among the states to deal with such cases is not robust enough. In such a grave situation, the state is hit hard by the dual peril of Covid-19 and floods. With economic activities yet to pick up and the continuing lockdown has made the situation grimmer for the children in Bihar where nearly 30 lakh people have been affected by floods. Loss of livelihood of parents with the catalytic effect of the lockdown and recent deluge would further increase the risk of children falling prey to traffickers. Engaging students with education is absolutely essential at this juncture, which seems to be a far cry, especially in government run schools. While most of the students are yet to receive their books for the current academic session. The discontinuation of education would suddenly have a larger impact on the children. With the rapid spread of Covid-19 and the ongoing flood situation will aggravate the threat of child trafficking. The national data is probably the tip of the iceberg, which might intensify with the present socio economic scenario. The lockdown and the subsequent floods have enforced most of the learners, barring a handful that have access to internet facilities, out of any form of access to education. The poorest and the most marginalised children are at the highest risk of never returning to their classrooms. Many students in rural and semi-urban areas have no access to the internet. Most of them have never used a phone either. Discontinuation of education would suddenly have a larger impact on the children. Lack of livelihood and temporary discontinuation of education have made the children more vulnerable in Bihar. The NFHS 4 (2015-16) data reflects that more than 42.5% of women in the age-group of 20-24 years were married before the age of 18 years. A further segregation of data reveals that the number of child marriages in the rural areas is much higher than in the urban areas. The reasons of child marriages in the state can primarily be attributed to lack of access to higher education for girls, poverty, social and gender stereotypes and weak enforcement of law. Needless to mention, these reasons would make the children, especially girls, more vulnerable to trafficking. At the state level, there have been initiatives like block level child protection committees in support of child welfare committee. District child protection units and anti-human trafficking units are addressing victims of trafficking and their linkages with social protection schemes. Similarly, the labour resource department has increased inspection of hazardous units to rescue children. The Railway Protection Force has already rescued 124 children from getting trafficked till May 2020. All these efforts need to be accelerated amid such turmoil to protect a generation altogether. The government must take a lead to engage the larger civil society organizations in its efforts to safeguard the rights of the children. Thus, civil society organisations need to collaborate with the government, teachers, PRIs and community at large to ensure a safety net for children in this time of crises. We have to act now! Young children need to be engaged in skill development schemes, so that they can sustain their family during and beyond Covid-19. ‘Save the Children’ is in continuous discussion with various civil society platforms like campaign against child labour (CACL) and campaign against child trafficking (CACT) to prevent child marriages and children from getting engaged as child labour. CSOs must coordinate with the labour resource department to prevent children from being engaged in hazardous works. Engaging children in education and mainstreaming grown-up kids to skill building training through Jeevika could garner safety to children in the coming days to defy the social menace. The communities, especially in aspirational districts, must be empowered with all government support and CSOs should play a vital role in engaging the communities to deal with such crisis situations for ensuring the best interest of children. It’s high time the civil society organisations collaborated with the government to ensure a safety net for children. (Chittapriyo is deputy director, programme management (east), Save the Children and Rafay is general manager, State Lead Bihar, Save the Children)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/civil-society-must-act-to-save-poor-kids-amid-floods-and-pandemic-in-bihar/articleshow/77248608.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Hubballi||State govt will save Kannada chair at JNU||Hubballi: Responding to TOI report dated July 28, Kannada Chair at JNU faces closure, the Kannada and culture department has intended to save the chair. V Rashmi Mahesh, secretary, Kannada and culture department, told TOI that the department is following up on the same. “Minister CT Ravi had written a letter to the vice chancellor, JNU on June 25. We spoke to JNU officials and have been assured of action on their part. Officials now have informed that a sub- committee is constituted there and they are at work. They have assured that a faculty will be appointed by August 20, by the time of retirement of the existing professor” she explained. When asked about the regularising the chair permanently with the approval of UGC, sheinformed that a discussion is on over the next course of action at the government level. Purushothama Bilimale, professor at KLC, JNU, Delhi, told that TOI’s report has played a crucial role in saving the chair. “Though we had reminded Kannada and culture department in December 2019 itself to ensure appointment of a faculty here, there was no response for six months. Current secretary of the department, Rashmi sought all documents, pertaining to the issue, from the department’s director’s office. Thanks to TOI report, hopes of survival of KLC are enhanced” he added. He requested Karnataka MPs to take up the issue with UGC to regularise the Kannada chair permanently. “Otherwise fear of closure of the chair will be repeating during appointment of faculty every time,” he apprehended. Eom/29.7.20/by Sangamesh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/state-govt-will-save-kannada-chair-at-jnu/articleshow/77250374.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
July 30, 2020||Business||Sebi extends last date for filing corp results||Mumbai: Markets regulator Sebi on Wednesday extended the deadline to September 15 for filing quarterly, half yearly and annual results for the period ended June 30. Earlier, Sebi had given companies time till July 31 to file their results for the period ended March 31 due to Covid-related hurdles in finalising accounts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-extends-last-date-for-filing-corp-results/articleshow/77250108.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Jaipur||All fair price shops to look similar in Rajasthan||UDAIPUR: The Chittorgarh model of ‘One Theme, One Design’ for ration shops to check leakage under the Public Distribution System (PDS) has been approved by the state government and will now be replicated in all the other districts. All fair price shops across Rajasthan will have now have the same design, colour and pattern of display so that they are easily identifiable from ordinary shops and the public are informed about the available commodities, stock quantity and price. Department of food and civil supplies principal secretary Hemant Gera has asked all the district supply officers to implement the Chittorgarh model in their respective areas. The idea was mooted by DSO Beezal Surana, a newly appointed officer, after she faced inconvenience in locating ration shops for inspection. The system was launched in Chittorgarh in January and was completed in June. The motive was to weed out corruption and leakage in the PDS which proved a great success. All the 682 licensed ration or fair price shops were re-designed with uniform exteriors. The shops were given a new look with Yellow-Green oil-painted front wall bearing a Mahatma Gandhi charkha logo and the ‘Beti Bachao-Beti Padhao’ slogan. The new exterior wall has a display block for commodities with their prices and stock availability which has to be regularly updated. Also displayed are license holder's name, details of the supply office and helpline numbers. Gera in her letter instructed all DSOs to implement the model for increased transparency in the system and ensure uninterrupted supply of essential commodities to the needy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/all-fair-price-shops-to-look-similar/articleshow/77250354.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Patna||FIR in Sushant Singh Rajput case: Rhea Chakraborty can be held, says advocate||PATNA: The four-member Patna police team recorded the statement of Bollywood actor late Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister Neetu Singh at her Versova residence in Mumbai on Wednesday in connection with her brother’s alleged suicide, a senior IPS officer of Bihar said. The team tried to meet actress Rhea Chakraborty, but she was not in her flat, sources said. Sushant had been found hanging and dead at his Bandra flat in Mumbai on June 14. The Patna police team is in Mumbai to investigate the suicide case after Sushant’s father K K Singh lodged an FIR with Rajiv Nagar police station here on July 25 against Rhea, her family members and known associates for abetting Sushant to commit suicide after unlawfully confining and cheating him financially. Sushant’s family counsel and senior Supreme Court advocate, Vikas Singh, said no FIR was lodged in Mumbai in Sushant’s death case. “The FIR in Patna was lodged only after the intervention of CM Nitish Kumar and his minister Sanjay Jha,” he told TOI over the phone on Wednesday. Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma also said as per his knowledge, no FIR had been lodged in Mumbai in Sushant’s suicide case. “Only a case of unnatural death had been registered by the Mumbai police,” he said. Rhea’s lawyer Satish Maneshinde had said on Tuesday that a second FIR on the same set of facts was not legal and he would question its legality. When asked, Singh said Rhea can be arrested on the basis of materials in the FIR lodged by Sushant’s father. “The family has enough and strong evidence to prove the allegations. Our emphasis is that Rhea abetted Sushant to commit suicide,” the advocate said. Singh said the family had been urging the Mumbai police to investigate the involvement of those who had been close to Sushant, mainly Rhea. “It is a lie if anyone says we had not urged the Mumbai police to investigate Rhea’s involvement in Sushant’s suicide,” he said. “Sushant’s family had even informed the Bandra police station in Mumbai on February 25 this year apprehending threat to him. But Mumbai police is quizzing all others in the Bollywood,” the advocate said. Singh said Rhea first cut off Sushant from his family. “His father tried to contact him even through his bodyguards, but in vain,” he said. He also said the family didn’t find any medical document from Sushant’s residence after his death as Rhea had taken away everything. Meanwhile, sources said the Patna police team also met officials of a private bank branch in Andheri where Sushant had his account from which Rs15 crore was transferred to different bank accounts over a period of time. IG (central range) Sanjay Singh told TOI that Rhea would be quizzed by the Patna police. He said the primary aim of the Patna team is to gather evidence. “Further course of action will be decided later as per the evidence we get,” the IG added. The Patna SSP said it would depend on how much assistance the Mumbai police provides to Patna police for investigation. “Statements of relevant persons there will be recorded,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fir-in-sushant-case-rhea-can-be-held-says-advocate/articleshow/77248524.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 30, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata municipal corporation fights dengue in multiple Covid zones||KOLKATA: Kusthia Masjidbari Lane, Picnic Garden, CN Roy Road, Mayfair Road (Ballygunge), Ironside Road — which are dengue-prone zones — have been reporting two to three Covid-positive cases daily. On Tuesday, a 12-year-old boy died of dengue at the Institute of Child Health at Park Circus, was from Kusthia Masjidbari Lane. Fighting the disease with its resources currently stretched in the battle against Covid will be an uphill task for Kolkata Municipal Corporation as the critical months of August, September and October approach, which always report a spike in dengue cases. According to a health department official, while the department is engaged in the fight to contain Covid spread in large areas around Park Circus and Picnic Garden, it will be more challenging to combat a twin attacks of Covid-19 and dengue. The dengue death has necessitated a major prevention drive in Park Circus, Ballygunge, Topsia, Beniapukur, Entally and Taltala, which are known as dengue-prone areas. Besides these, the KMC is worried about Dum Dum, Cossipore, Bagbazar, Burrabazar, Rabindra Sarani, Jorasanko, Kidderpore, Jadavpur and Baghajatin, among other areas. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday sounded an alert asking all municipal corporations and municipalities to keep a vigil on the state’s dengue-prone areas. According to a KMC health department official, if special drives are not conducted in these zones, there could be a widespread outbreak from August itself. It could get out of control by September. There could be a respite only after winter sets in, the official said. However, this year, the dengue prevention drive is bound to get slow because of the pandemic since the resources have been stretched and many civic doctors and healthcare workers have tested positive for Covid and are quarantined at home, a KMC official said. “We need to split our team to conduct simultaneous Covid- and dengue-prevention drives at the ward level. But we will have to compromise in some areas for want of manpower,” an official said. This lack of preparedness could prove costly in case of an outbreak in dengue-prone zones, felt a section of KMC medical officers on duty at the ward health clinics. Civic doctors are particularly worried about vast areas of boroughs IX, X, XI and XII. Among areas in south Kolkata, the health department will need to concentrate dengue prevention drives in Tollygunge, Garia, Ramgarh, Golf Green, Lake Gardens, Prince Anwar Shah Road, New Alipore, Chetla, Kalighat, Bhowanipore and Behala. Large areas off Bypass also need a special dengue drive. In north and central Kolkata, Girish Park, Burrabazar, Rajballavpara, Chitpore, Amherst Street, Belgachhia, Ripon Street, Elliot Road and SN Banerjee Road need special attention. The focus must also be on areas in adjoining municipalities, like Dum Dum, Kamarhati, Baranagar and Rajpur-Sonarpur, a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-fights-dengue-in-multiple-cov-zones/articleshow/77249707.cms||Saikat Ray
July 30, 2020||Business||Allow promoters to renegotiate under IBC: Raghuram Rajan||MUMBAI: Former Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Raghuram Rajan has said that, instead of closing the insolvency option completely for Covid defaults, borrowers should have been allowed to renegotiate the loans under the bankruptcy platform and retain their businesses. Currently under Section 29A of the Insolvency Act, defaulters cannot bid for their own business under the bankruptcy process. Lenders are extra careful to ensure that bidders have no connection with the defaulters. Rajan was speaking at a webinar hosted by Princeton’s Bendheim Center for Finance. Rajan said that after Covid, there was a tendency to take a stand that this is a new kind of situation and requires a new kind of process and therefore cases cannot be referred under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC). “This is unfortunate because it treats bankruptcy as some kind of punishment rather than a necessary way of restructuring capital structure and ownership. We need to look at it carefully as a lot of distressed cases will be coming out,” he said. Calling for a more effective Chapter 11-like structure, Rajan said that currently under the insolvency process at the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), the defaulting firm is auctioned to the highest bidder even if it is a reasonably viable firm. “There were reasons why it went to that structure. The bias under the old structure for removing management can be relooked at. Banks want some court blessing so that they can remove their own liability. These are complicated cases, but rather than close the court down, we need to look at what will work,” said Rajan. Pointing out that private banks were ahead in raising capital, Rajan said that government banks also need recapitalisation. “If you do not do anything, you have much less working capital and much less investment and there will be many more zombies — the living dead — holding back growth, the experience that Japan had in the ’90s,” he said. “The regulator is being urged to forebear under the thesis that what we do not see cannot hurt us. We know from experience across countries that hiding the bad loan problem only makes it worse,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/allow-promoters-to-renegotiate-under-ibc-raghuram-rajan/articleshow/77250101.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: ‘All kidnappings, murders tackled professionally’||LUCKNOW: With back-to-back cases of kidnapping and murder rocking the state, additional director general (ADG), law and order, Prashant Kumar on Wednesday said the police acted tough and worked out cases in a professional manner. He said the role of neighbours, friends and acquaintances have surfaced in all the cases and involvement of no criminal gang has been found. “In the case of abduction and murder of one Brijesh Kumar in Kanpur Dehat, cops used all the technology at their disposal. It surfaced that Brijesh’s friend killed him after sedating him,” the ADG said, adding that he was murdered for ransom. “In a similar case in Gorakhpur, a 14-year-old boy was kidnapped and later murdered. The boy was kidnapped by his neighbour Dayanand Rajbhar and others who demanded ransom of Rs 1 crore,” he said. The ADG said in both the cases, victims were murdered even before the ransom amount could be arranged. Citing the case of Gonda where an eight-year-old boy was rescued from the clutches of kidnappers, he said one of the accused was an acquaintance who used to visit the shop of the boy’s father. “Similarly, in the abduction and murder of lab technician Sanjeet Yadav in Kanpur Nagar, the mastermind Gyanendra was a friend of the victim. In all these cases, the families were not in a condition to pay ransom amount,” he added. The ADG said two police commissioners and district police chiefs have been asked to work on cases of kidnapping and a detailed SOP has been sent by the DGP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/all-kidnappings-murders-tackled-professionally/articleshow/77250875.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
July 30, 2020||Mysuru||Newborn taken from Shivamogga to Manipal in zero traffic||Shivamogga: A four-day-old infant with leucocytosis, wherein one has more white blood cells than is deemed normal, was taken from Shivamogga to Manipal under the ‘zero traffic’ arrangement. After doctors at a private hospital in Shivamogga confirmed that the child of Devendrappa and Supriya, residents of Bhadravathi, had the rare disorder, the parents were understandably perturbed. The doctors decided to shift the infant to the Kasturba Medical Centre Hospital in Manipal on Wednesday, and Shivamogga police was asked to make the necessary arrangements to ensure an obstacle-free commute for the baby. Cops in Shivamogga coordinated with those in Udupi, and traffic across the 140km stretch between Shivamogga and Manipal was cleared to pave the way for three ambulances. The route that they took was via Thirthahalli and Agumbe Ghat. An administrator from the private hospital in Shivamogga where the baby was born said that they did not have the infrastructure to treat the rare condition that the infant had. “The baby had to be moved to the Manipal hospital in two hours. The infant is now receiving treatment,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/newborn-taken-from-shivamogga-to-manipal-in-zero-traffic/articleshow/77248483.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Patna||Nitish has established rule of law in state: Min||PATNA: Senior JD(U) leader and state building construction minister Ashok Choudhary on Wednesday said that serious crimes like abduction for ransom and extortion from small traders had taken the shape of an industry across the state during the rule of RJD chief Lalu Prasad and his wife Rabri Devi. Addressing his party’s assembly constituency-wise virtual sammelan of Raghunathpur (Siwan), Kudhani, Baikunthpur, Balrampur, Chhatapur and Jhajha constituencies, Choudhary further said that during the Lalu-Rabri rule, the cases of abduction for ransom had been occurring so frequently that many big traders and industrialists left Bihar and settled their business and industries in other states. “But, when Nitish Kumar came into power in November 2005, he first of all took stringent actions against the criminals and established the rule of law in the state,” Choudhary said while comparing the state’s law and order scenario during the 15-year rule of Nitish Kumar (2005-2020) with the 15-year rule of Lalu-Rabri (1990-2005). While addressing the sammelan of Raghunathpur assembly constituency, he said just take the example of Siwan district. “During the Lalu-Rabri rule, Siwan had become a synonym for the ‘den of gang-lord’. There was a complete breakdown of law and order in the district in those days. Rule of terror was prevailing in the district till 2005. But when Nitish came into the power, he restored law and order in entire police stations of Siwan districts,” he said. Choudhary also said that there is a whopping 77.24% decline in the cases of dacoity in Siwan district in 2020 compared to 2005. Lauding his CM for providing power connection in 100% households in the state, Choudhary recalled that only 40% villages in Bihar had electricity connection before 2005. He said, “When Nitish led the state government after the 2015 assembly election, he decided to provide electricity to all households under his ‘Har Ghar Bijli Lagataar’ programme under the seven resolves. The state government completed the task of providing electricity connection in 100% households by October 2018.” The building construction minister also pointed out that during the Lalu-Rabri rule, electricity was being supplied for hardly two to four hours in a day in rural areas, but now in Nitish rule every village across the state is getting 22 to 23 hours electricity each day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-has-established-rule-of-law-in-state-min/articleshow/77248564.cms||Madan Kumar
July 30, 2020||Patna||Freshers gear up for ‘virtual’ college life||PATNA: With most educational institutes switching to the online mode of education amid the Covid-19 pandemic, it will be a unique experience for freshers to step into college virtually. There will be online orientation sessions, but no meet-and-greet this year. Many colleges in the city have uploaded the admission forms to their websites and conducted online tests. They are now gearing up for starting the new session soon. Principal of St Xavier’s College and St Xavier’s College of Management and Technology, Fr T Nishaant SJ, told this newspaper that online tests had been conducted for new admissions. “Since interviews have also been completed, we have decided to start the new session of the students of five undergraduate courses from the first week of September,” the principal said. He added, “We will conduct online orientation sessions and classes if the situation does not improve.” Amity University is also likely to begin the new session from September. “We have started the admission process and expect to organize online orientation sessions by August-end,” pro-vice chancellor Vivekanand Pandey said. Meanwhile, many freshers welcomed the decision of the colleges to hold online classes and orientation programmes. Priya Kumari, who wants to pursue BCom from Patna Women’s College, said, “I know I will miss out on the opportunity to enjoy the much-hyped first day of college and meet new people, but it is quite risky to attend classes physically at the moment.” Another Class XII pass-out, Aditya Raj, pointed out that attending classes physically was a thing of the past. “We will have to accept the new normal and stay safe,” he added. Ankita Sinha, who has been admitted to a Mumbai-based college, will also have to attend online classes from September 1. She said, “My parents will not allow me to go because of the sudden rise in Covid-19 cases all over.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/freshers-gear-up-for-virtual-college-life/articleshow/77247868.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 30, 2020||Business||LVB and Clix Capital amalgamation may seek extension||Chennai: The proposal for amalgamation of AION-backed lender Clix Capital Services and Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) may get extended as the two parties havent reached a conclusion on valuation. The 45 day preliminary deadline ends Friday. “The Reserve Bank of India has not given its nod to the completion of this (amalgamation) deal, since the banking regulator is of the view that the capitalisation that is being proposed is not sufficient. LVB board is also looking at bringing in one more investor to shore up the capital,” sources said.Thus, the bank has requested RBI for an extension of 30 days to bring in another strong suitor alongside Clix Capital.” The bank’s board is scheduled to meet on Thursday, to consider and announce the June-ended quarter results of this fiscal year. Both Clix Capital and LVB were tighlipped and refused to comment. As per the letter of interest (LOI), adjusting for capital adequacy the amalgamation would mean extra capital up to Rs 1,900 crore for the merged entity and total assets of approximately Rs 4,600 crore, the bank said in its results announcement.LVB is under RBI monitoring after its bad loans ballooned and capital adequacy requirements fell way short of statutory requirements. It had proposed a merger with IndiaBulls which was struck down by RBI. Since then it has been limping, trying to find a partner.After multiple quarters of reporting losses and rising bad loans, RBI had initiated Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) which restricts the activities of the bank in September, 2019. The bank broke away from reporting losses with a net profit of Rs 93 crore for the March-ended quarter, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lvb-and-clix-capital-amalgamation-may-seek-extension/articleshow/77249807.cms||Mamtha Asokan
July 30, 2020||Mysuru||Renovated anatomy museum reopens||Mysuru: City-based JSS Mahavidyapeetha secretary SP Manjunath on Wednesday inaugurated the renovated anatomy museum at JSS Medical College premises. Entry is free for all. The museum exhibits a wide collection of specimens ranging from dissected human parts, foetuses at different stages of development and rare congenital anomalies, skeletons, embryology models, charts and plastinated specimens. The museum aims at creating awareness on health issued not only among health professionals and students pursuing medical sciences but also in public and school children. Each specimen is displayed with relevant description and images. Executive secretary Dr CG Betsurmath launched HIDI, a mobile application for medical students in learning histology and bar codes of museum specimens. Scanning the bar code on the specimen will provide its details in audio and video. JSSAHER Vice chancellor Dr Surinder Singh, director academics Dr Kushalappa, registrar Dr B Manjunatha, principal H Basavanagowdappa, vice principal Dr Suma MN and others were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/renovated-anatomy-museum-reopens/articleshow/77248227.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Mysuru||Lukewarm response to bandh in Mandya||Mandya: The bandh, which was called by progressive organisations on Wednesday, in Mandya to protest illegal stone mining activity in the neighbourhood of the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) Reservoir evoked a tepid response from the citizens. The bandh had been called by the Krishnararaja Sagara Ulisi Janandolana Samiti, the umbrella organisation under which like-minded fora have united, has been protesting the lack of action against continued stone mining activity in the region surrounding the reservoir, which activists say poses a threat to its stability. Although activists traversed the whole of Mandya city to convince traders and vendors to down shutters and support the bandh, their efforts were to no avail, with most businesses remaining open on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/lukewarm-response-to-bandh-in-mandya/articleshow/77248718.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Sub-inspector held for molesting woman constable at Gopalganj police station||PATNA: A police sub-inspector was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly molesting a woman constable inside Muhammadpur police station premises in Gopalganj late on Tuesday night. SI Awadesh Kumar Singh, who is in his mid-40s, allegedly grabbed the 24-year-old constable from behind and molested her. The survivor is on a deputation at the Muhammadpur police station from where Singh was arrested and sent to jail. “The female constable had submitted a written complaint at the police station on Wednesday on the basis of which an FIR was registered against Singh,” Sadar SDPO Naresh Paswan said, adding, the accused officer has been suspended. According to the written complaint filed by the constable, around 9.30pm while she was going to her room inside the police station, Singh grabbed her from behind on the stairs and one of her colleagues was eyewitness to the incident. The constable alleged that Singh had took advantage of the situation as the staircase was dark due to a power cut at the police station. “One of my female colleagues saw the incident happening and she rushed to my help. We both started screaming after which Singh fled from the spot,” the constable stated in her complaint. She also filed a complaint before the Gopalganj SP on Tuesday night seeking stern action against the accused SI. The Bihar police association president Narendra Kumar Dheeraj condemned the incident and demanded that the SI be dismissed from service for this act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/si-held-for-molesting-woman-constable-at-gopalganj-police-stn/articleshow/77248541.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Patna||Drinking too much ‘kadha’ harmful, caution Patna doctors||PATNA: Dermatologists have cautioned Patnaites against the consumption of too many home-made herbal drinks or ‘kadhas’ to boost immunity and fight coronavirus. These, according to them, may lead to some serious skin problems. Many doctors have pointed out that social media is flooded with messages that throw light on the role of ‘tulsi’, ‘ashwagandha’ and ‘giloy’ in boosting the immune system. Consequently, a lot of people mix these ingredients along with cardamoms, cinnamons, cloves, black pepper and ginger to prepare home-made ‘kadhas’ without thinking of their side effects. Former principal and head of skin department at the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), Dr Amar Kant Jha Amar, has witnessed a rise in the number of patients consulting him for treating eczema. He told this newspaper on Wednesday that excessive use of soaps and sanitisers to keep coronavirus at bay had led to the problem. “Proper diet as well as vitamins D3 and C can help boost immunity naturally. Using lots of plants, spices and ‘kadhas’ can lead to problems like stomach ulcer, blood pressure, blood sugar, and even skin cancer. However, consuming them in limited doses is safe,” Dr Jha said and recommended practising yoga and developing a positive outlook. Head of dermatology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna, Dr Swetlina Pradhan, also pointed out that excessive use of home-made herbal drinks with a lot of spices could cause urticaria and aggravate pre-existing skin problems like eczema. She said, “Non-exposure to the sun due to the lockdown has brought down people’s vitamin D levels and weakened their immune system. They should, therefore, eat vitamin-rich fruits.” Dr Abhijeet Kumar Jha, assistant professor in dermatology department of the PMCH, stated that skin was a very sensitive part of the body and prone to allergies. “Several patients, who had consulted me for different skin ailments during the last couple of months, said they drank four to five cups of home-made herbal drinks every day. I simply advised them to consume limited doses of such ‘kadhas’,” the doctor claimed. Similarly, Dr S K Tripathi, a private practitioner, cautioned people against the excess intake of plant-based products. He said milk, fruits and sunlight were enough for boosting one’s immunity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/drinking-too-much-kadha-harmful-caution-doctors/articleshow/77247443.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Kolkata||MAKAUT ties up with UK college to e-train teachers||KOLKATA: Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology (MAKAUT) has tied up with Cambridge Marketing College, UK, to address the most crucial challenge faced by the teaching community during the pandemic — online classes. Beginning August 8, MAKAUT will launch a five-week online course for teachers who have been overwhelmed with the sudden transition of teaching to the digital platform. The programme will include familiarization with online platforms, contemporary online tools and software platforms to help teachers prepare and revise e-study material, assignments and conduct peer discussions. “Our first priority is to train the 1,000 teachers from our own university. Since ours is engineering-based education, it is very important for the teachers to adapt to the online format and innovate to connect with students,” said vice-chancellor Saikat Maitra. MAKAUT wants to extend the programme to all strata — from schools to the postgraduate level. The certification will be jointly awarded by MAKAUT and Cambridge Marketing College, UK. Most of the first batch has already been selected, which includes lecturers and professors from undergraduate and graduate colleges. Many more batches will follow. Classes will be held during the weekends and the fee, including Rs 300 for registration, will be Rs 3,300. Nandan Sengupta, college ambassador of Cambridge Marketing College and a mentor in this programme, told TOI, “The programme involves mentors from academics, technology application and management streams, whose cumulative experience will help participants.” “The course aims to make teachers aware of the emerging tools in the e-learning space,” said Atanu Ghosh, visiting professor in premier Indian institutes and a mentor. “Each batch will have 20 participants to ensure there is one-on-one interaction with the mentors,” said another mentor, Sumit Kanungo, a management professional-turned-academic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/makaut-ties-up-with-uk-college-to-e-train-teachers/articleshow/77249757.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
July 30, 2020||Kolkata||Lockdown effect: Four flyers spend day outside Kolkata airport terminal||KOLKATA: Ten cargo flights and an air ambulance from Bagdogra — that was the day’s flight count at Kolkata airport on Wednesday, this month’s last total lockdown day in the state. But no domestic flight did not mean no passenger. Though the airport wore a deserted look for the most part of the day, there were four persons sitting outside the departure terminal waiting for the lockdown to be over. While two of them had come from Kerala on Tuesday night and wanted to head home to their respective villages in Bengal, the rest were supposed to take a flight to Andaman the next morning. “I had booked the ticket to Kolkata much before the lockdown was announced and I couldn’t afford to cancel the night before and buy another. Hence, after getting off at Kolkata airport around 11.30pm on Tuesday, I spent the night and Wednesday morning sitting outside the terminal. I will make a move early on Thursday morning and hopefully reach my home in south Dinajpur by Thursday evening,” said Murtaza Ali, who works at a manure factory in Kerala. His co-passenger Jagadish Debnath had similar plans to head back home to Balurghat on Thursday. “I had reached Kolkata on bandh days earlier, but didn’t expect that nothing would be moving this time,” he said. Also at the airport were Kulpi resident Altaf Molla and Barrackpore resident Bapi Biswas, scheduled to fly to Andaman. “I have never travelled in an aeroplane. My agent had bought me a ticket for Wednesday’s flight last week, despite knowing it would be a lockdown. He assured me the flight would operate. But I reached the airport to find there were no flights. The airline has booked me on a Thursday morning flight, but who will take responsibility for the harassment I faced the entire day?” asked Biswas. Molla, however, said he reached the airport early since he stays far away from the city. With travel curbs on Wednesday, he wanted to reach the airport on Tuesday and wait for the flight on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lockdown-effect-four-flyers-spend-day-outside-terminal/articleshow/77249769.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
July 30, 2020||Patna||Bihar govt plans online bed management for Covid-19 patients||PATNA: The state health department is working for online bed management to provide better health facilities to the Covid-19 patients in state. The department targets to provide four ventilators and one dedicated ICU for Covid-19 patients in all the 38 districts, IPRD and health secretaries said in their press briefing on Wednesday. The health department has also the target to start conducting 20,000 tests for Covid-19 per day within two days. IPRD secretary Anupam Kumar said additional beds were being regularly added in all Covid care centres (CCC), dedicated Covid health centres (DCHC) and dedicated Covid hospitals (DCHs) in the state. “Now the health department is targeting to have additional beds equipped with oxygen. Also, a dedicated team has been deployed to look after the management of ten dedicated hospitals,” Anupam said. He further said Covid-19 testing was being done in all the blocks and now the government would increase the number of tests through RT-PCR. Health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said the department was stressing on improving medical facilities at district level and was arranging oxygen, ventilator and ICU there so that not many people need to be referred to higher medical institutes for treatment. He said there were ten hospitals, including AIIMS-Patna, where Covid-19 patients in serious conditions were being treated. Singh said Covid-19 patients were treated at 394 health centres with a total of 44,000 beds across the state. He said 26,000 beds have been put up at these centres and 12,000 oxygen cylinders were available there. “Apart from cylinders, 2500 beds had the facility of oxygen pipeline besides 270 ICU beds and 383 ventilators were functional,” said Singh. Giving the break-up of the availability of beds, he said there were 290 Covid care centre with 19,000 beds and the number of beds will be increased to 30,000 in state. “There are 4,202 oxygen cylinders in these CCCs and oxygen pipelines have been arranged at 43 places,” stated Singh. Apart from the CCCs, there are 94 DCHCs with 6342-bed capacity, out of which 5,000 beds have been put up. There are 2,925 oxygen cylinders in these DCHCs and oxygen pipeline arrangement has been made at 500 places. The ten dedicated Covid hospitals have the 3850-bed capacity, out of which 3,000 have been put up. There are 4,542 oxygen cylinders in these hospitals and 1855 beds are equipped with oxygen pipelines, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-govt-plans-online-bed-management-for-covid-19-patients/articleshow/77247630.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat among worst five states in deaths of kids||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat is among the five worst states in terms of the age-specific death rate (ASDR) among children less than one year old. Gujarat has an ASDR of 41, only better than states like Chhattisgarh (48), Rajasthan (51), Madhya Pradesh (56) and Uttar Pradesh (68)  The statistical report for 2018 of the Sample Registration System reveals that Gujarat’s ASDR was higher rate than the national average of 37.5. The SRS found that the ASDR in Gujarat is higher in male children, 44, against 39 in female children. The ASDR in rural areas was 52 compared to 27 in urban areas. The ASDR of 41 in the sub-one-year age group was only lower than the above 70 years age group. The ASDR is defined as the number of deaths in that particular age group against the mid-year population of the same age group per 1,000 persons. The ASDR in this age group for rural areas in Gujarat at 52 was the fourth worst in the country, as rural Chhattisgarh has an ASDR of 50. A senior official in the state health department said health services in rural Gujarat are not up to the mark and hence there is always a delay treating children. Usually, by the time the child is taken to the civil hospital or any hospital, it is too late. He said in some villages people go to bhuvas (faith healers) rather than doctors. The officer said there are several government schemes such as the Mukhya Mantri Bal Sandharb Card for newborn children but in rural areas villagers and even panchayat members are unaware of them. He said that in urban areas, with greater awareness, doctors ensure that children get good treatment under government schemes and hence the ASDR in urban areas has have that of rural Gujarat. Dr Chetan Trivedi, former president of the Ahmedabad Paediatrics Association said such deaths depend on multiple factors. In the first month, apart from infections, premature birth asphyxia is a major contributor to the death rate. In the age group of one month to 12 months, malnutrition along with viral and bacterial infections lead to deaths. In urban areas there are paediatricians available, but in rural area there may not be qualified doctors especially paediatricians. Jayanti Ravi, principal secretary, health and family welfare said, “There appear to be some inconsistencies in the data and I have spoken to the registrar general of the census.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/guj-among-worst-5-states-in-deaths-of-kids/articleshow/77250367.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
July 30, 2020||Dehradun||Char Dham board warns against stopping pilgrims to Gangotri Dham||DEHRADUN: The Char Dham Devasthanam Board on Wednesday warned of stern legal action against those who stop pilgrims from visiting the Gangotri Dham. The warning came a day after Panch Mandir Samiti, a body of priests and teerth-purohits of Gangotri Dham, decided not to allow pilgrims to visit the temple till August 15 for public safety in view of the growing cases of Covid-19 in the country. "The state has already started the yatra and the authorities are taking care of all Covid-19 guidelines put in place by the government of India. If anyone attempts to stop pilgrims from visiting the temple, it will be illegal and invite stern punitive action, including imprisonment and fine,” said CEO Devasthanam board Ravinath Raman who told TOI that a meeting was organised with Uttarkashi district administration and priests on Wednesday in which the priests have initiated to withdraw their orders.“We were told that they were not aware of legal implications of their actions and hence made such an announcement,” said Raman. Meanwhile, Suresh Semwal, president of Panch Mandir Samiti Gangotri dham, said that “the state government cannot take all decisions on issues associated with religious freedom of people”. They stopped the pious Kanwar yatra without asking anyone. They started Char Dham Yatra without asking anyone. We, priests, also hold importance in the temple functioning and we will not allow pilgrims to enter temple premises. If anyone comes, they can watch the temple from the channel and go,” he added. The government has opened the yatra for residents of Uttarakhand on July 1 while even people from outside the state were allowed to take the yatra from July 24. Till July 27, over 10,000 people have visited the four temples of Gangotri, Yamunotri, Badrinath and Kedarnath. Over 25,000 registrations have been made for the yatra till Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/char-dham-board-warns-against-stopping-pilgrims-to-gangotri-dham/articleshow/77247764.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 30, 2020||Lucknow||Two Lucknow doctors among 4 in race for KGMU VC post||LUCKNOW: As race for the top post of prestigious King George’s Medical University (KGMU) hots up, a search committee has shortlisted four names to be finalised by Governor Anandiben Patel in a day or two. The search committee, which met on July 26, has shortlisted the names of Prof Rakesh Malhotra, AIIMS, Delhi; Prof Sonia Nityanand, haematology department, SGPGI, Lucknow; Dr GP Singh, Pro-VC, KGMU, Lucknow, and Dr Vipin Puri, DG, AFMC, Pune. Prof Nityanand is also registrar of SGPGI. The post of KGMU V-C has been lying vacant after the retirement of Prof M B Bhatt last month. The governor, the chancellor of state universities and appointing authority of vice-chancellors, is likely to select one of the four names shortlisted. The search panel has forwarded the probables’ list to the governor for the second time as the governor had not found any candidate suitable for the post earlier. Talking to TOI here on Wednesday, a highly placed source in Raj Bhawan said that over 200 candidates had applied for the second time. Out of them, the search panel has picked up four names and forwarded them for the governor’s consideration. “All of them are heavyweights in their fields,” he added. The medical education department and the Raj Bhawan are determined for early selection of the KGMU VC as the varsity cannot be left headless for a long time. At present, the charge of KGMU has been handed over to director, SGPGI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/2-city-doctors-among-4-in-race-for-kgmu-vc-post/articleshow/77250884.cms||Subhash Mishra
July 30, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Ambala locals climb rooftops, flyover for a glimpse of jets||AMBALA: The excitement over the arrival of five Rafale jets at the Indian Air Force (IAF) station in Ambala Cantonment was palpable across the whole city since Wednesday morning. In a few areas of the city, locals celebrated the arrival of Rafale with enthusiasm by distributing sweets, dancing on drumbeats, and releasing balloons in the air. A large number of locals parked their vehicles on roads and a flyover and even climbed water storage tanks to watch the landing of the Rafale jets. Many took photographs and videos despite the prohibitory orders imposed by the district administration. The flyover near Baldev Nagar police station and Herbal Park on the National Highway 44 was popular as it provided a vantage point for a glimpse of fighter jets landing at the IAF airbase. No cops were seen at the spot even as many enthusiastic locals obstructed the traffic on the highway. Sitting in his parked car, a man who refused to give his name, said, “We all are excited and feeling great that Rafale is coming to Ambala. That is why we came here to have a glimpse.” The IAF airbase, surrounded by a number of villages — Dhulkot, Baldev Nagar, Garnala, Panjokhra —is very close to NH 44. A large number of videos and photographs of the Rafale jets were uploaded and circulated on social media in Ambala throughout Wednesday. The Ambala district administration had imposed Section 144 of the CrPC to prevent any gathering on the day and to prohibit photography of the IAF assets from the areas close to the airbase on Tuesday. The district administration had arranged tight security around the IAF airbase and cops barricaded all roads leading to IAF station and did not allow movement of any vehicles till the landing of the jets. Haryana home minister Anil Vij, a six-time MLA from Ambala Cantonment, said, “It is a matter of pride for Ambala and all the residents celebrated the arrival of Rafale fighter jets here. It is a time of coronavirus or else the people of Ambala would have danced on the streets all over the city.” Asked about the photographs and videos of the Rafale jets being shared on the social media websites, Ambala superintendent of police (SP) Abhishek Jorwal said, “The police were deputed at all key points. In case, if any objectionable video or photography comes to our notice through social media, we will take action as per law. After the landing of fighter jets, the restrictions were eased and blocked roads were opened.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/ambala-locals-climb-rooftops-flyover-for-a-glimpse-of-jets/articleshow/77250365.cms||Jaskaran Singh
July 30, 2020||Bareilly||Man found hanging on temple premises||Bareilly: The body of an unidentified man — in his early 30s — was found hanging on the campus of a temple in Kanth town of Shahjahanpur on Wednesday, said police. Police said it appeared that the man “ended his life” late on Tuesday night. When locals visited the temple on Wednesday morning, they found the body hanging from a tree and informed police. The body was sent for postmortem. Station house officer, Kaanth police station, Upendra Yadav said, “We are working to establish the identity of the victim, and have been searching for his family in adjoining villages.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-found-hanging-on-temple-premises/articleshow/77247761.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
July 30, 2020||Goa||Marksheets for Class X after August 6||PANAJI: The Class X marksheets will be available to students after August 6, the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education said. The passing certificates for the exam will be made available later, the board said. After declaration of the Class X exam result on July 28, students began visiting higher secondary schools to enquire about admissions to Class XI. The directorate of education (DoE) had asked higher secondary schools to carry out admissions through the online mode. Most higher secondary schools are offering both online and offline modes for admissions. The actual admission process though will begin in the second week of August. Goa Board in the meantime has said that no parents should visit the board’s office in Porvorim for any discrepancies pertaining to assessments of answersheets. “However, they may route their request through heads of institution via email,” the board said in a circular. Regarding corrections in certificates, the board has said, “For any corrections, the school is accountable to pay the necessary extra fees towards issue of any revised certificates after receiving statement of grades/marks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/marksheets-for-class-x-after-aug-6/articleshow/77250369.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Dehradun||205 people booked for violating Covid-19 norms||DEHRADUN: City police on Wednesday booked 205 people for not wearing masks and violating Covid-19 norms. DIG Dehradun has set up special police teams to rein in errant persons who violate social distancing norms, don't wear face masks, and venture out beyond the stipulated timings. Police also collected a total fine of Rs 15,800 from people not wearing masks and Rs 19,500 under Motor Vehicles Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/205-people-booked-for-violating-covid-19-norms/articleshow/77247793.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Train to run on first freight corridor trial||AHMEDABAD: The first trial run of a train on the dedicated freight corridor will take place on Thursday from Nava Palanpur station to Dorai in Marwar, Rajasthan. The train will cover a distance of 350km, running at average speed of 100kmph. Gujarat is part of the Mumbai-Delhi western freight corridor. The total length of the corridor is 1,540km, with Gujarat accounting for 550km.  But Gujarat has so far laid tracks across only 25km. Officials said that Gujarat’s tracks will be connected to the Rewari (Haryana) dedicated freight corridor. Hence the train which leaves Palanpur can travel up to Rewari without interruption. The Dorai to Rewari track is already operational. There are separate tracks for up and down freight trains. Officials said that in Gujarat work on the corridor is under way and about 97% of land acquisition has been completed. The remaining land is stuck in legal battles. The officials said that at certain places the height of bridges has to be increased since the freight trains will have double-stack containers. The height of the bridges has to be more than 30 metres. A Palanpur bridge, for instance, requires an increase in height. The officials said that work on electrification of tracks has also begun. They said the first trial run of a train within the state will be carried out by the end of 2021.The officials said that work on eight road underbridges and one overbridge is going on and will be completed by the same period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/train-to-run-on-1st-freight-corridor-trial/articleshow/77250381.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Dehradun||32 prisoners among 279 new Covid-19 cases in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: On Wednesday 279 new Covid-19 cases were recorded in Uttarakhand of which 32 were Dehradun jail inmates. In the last four days, as many as 98 prisoners of the jail have been shifted to the Doon Hospital after testing positive for the virus. In view of this, the medical facility has now been turned into a fortress to prevent any prisoner from escaping . DR NS Khatri, Covid-19 nodal officer from Government Doon Medical College and Hospital (GDMCH), confirmed that 98 undertrials and convicted jail inmates from Sudhowala Jail have been moved to the facility in the last four days. “Almost 90 percent of the inmates are asymptomatic. They are doing well and are under observation,” said Dr Khatri, who informed that death of a Covid-19 patient was also reported at the hospital on the day. The patient was referred from Mahant Indiresh Hospital and he died within hours of admission. Two more deaths of Covid-19 patients were also reported on the day. Among these, one was a 50-year-old man who died at AIIMS Rishikesh and the other was a 23-year-old woman, who died at Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani. “The patient at AIIMS-R died of type 1 and type 2 respiratory failure while the second patient, who was pregnant, died of cardiac arrest,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. Among the 279 fresh cases, the maximum of 81 were reported from Udham Singh Nagar. The district, for the third consecutive day, has reported the maximum cases of coronavirus in the state. “Haridwar also reported 74 fresh cases, followed by 50 cases from Dehradun (including the jail inmates). In the highest cases so far in the district, Pithoragarh reported 26 fresh cases on Wednesday while Nainital recorded 20 new cases,” said Tripathi, while adding that Almora also reported 18 new cases. In Dehradun, the members of a renowned jeweller family were tested positive on Wednesday along with five of their staff members. Two ITBP jawans and four Army men were also tested positive in the state capital along with two healthcare workers of a private hospital. Uttarkashi also reported five new cases, followed by three cases in Pauri, and one each in Champawat and Tehri. Also, Purola MLA Raj Kumar was admitted with Covid-19 like symptoms at Doon Hospital late Wednesday evening. The doctors have admitted him in suspected Covid-19 ward and his RT-PCR test will be done on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/32-prisoners-among-279-new-covid-19-cases-in-ukhand/articleshow/77247780.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Mai Bhago AFPI to hold entrance test on August 5||Chandigarh: The Mai Bhago Armed Forces Preparatory Institute (AFPI) for girls in Mohali will conduct the entrance exam on August 5 for the new batch for imparting training for a career as commissioned officers in defence services. Maj-Gen I P Singh (retd.), director of the Mai Bhago AFPI, said the conduct of the exam had been outsourced to C-DAC, which would ascertain the eligibility of the candidates, issue admit cards and intimate them about the date and venue of the examination. A premier institute of the Punjab government, the Mai Bhago AFPI had done online registration on the C-DAC portal for the prospective candidates this year due to Covid-19 pandemic. This year, 1,155 candidates had registered online, however, only 821 were eligible to appear in the exam. To maintain social distancing and avoid crowding, the exam would be conducted at two venues - Golden Bell Public School, Sector 77, Mohali, and Mai Bhago AFPI for girls campus, Sector 66, Mohali. Eligible candidates can download their admit card from the website link http://www.recruitment-portal.in/reccdac/Dept.aspx?id=26 Institute’s director further added since results of Class XII have just been declared and the academic college session is expected to start around from September 1, the selected girls would be able to get admission in the college for their studies, as Mai Bhago AFPI girls do their graduation from MCM DAV College in Chandigarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mai-bhago-afpi-to-hold-entrance-test-on-august-5/articleshow/77250368.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Meerut||Meerut: Good Samaritans helping road accident victims to get Rs 2,000 reward||MEERUT: Administration in Meerut on Wednesday decided to give a Rs 2,000 cash reward to those who extend help to road accident victims and take them to hospital. Such a scheme is already in place in other parts of the state and also in neighbouring Delhi. The administration also decided to put up retro reflective tapes at 39 crossings in the district to curb accidents during night. Ram Chandra, additional district magistrate (administration), said, “It has been decided to ensure that rumble strips are set up at black spots, which are accident-prone areas. Instructions have been given to the regional transport officer, National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) and SP traffic to inspect these black spots and see the corrective measures that can be taken.” A meeting was conducted on a nine-pointer demand with transport officials in attendance. Additional regional transport officer (ARTO) Dinesh Chandra said, “To encourage people to help accident victims, Rs 2,000 cash reward will be given to the Good Samaritans. In this regard, a board will be set up at government hospitals and police stations and police personnel will be instructed to make sure that no question is asked from those who bring accident victims to hospitals.” There are a total of 21 black spots in Meerut including 14 hotspots on national highways, two on state highways and five on district crossings. Additional regional transport officer Shweta Sharma, said, “At least 39 spots have been identified where retro reflective tapes will be set up so that driving during night doesn’t become accident-prone here.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/good-samaritans-helping-road-accident-victims-to-get-rs-2000-reward/articleshow/77247786.cms||Ishita Bhatia
July 30, 2020||Bareilly||UP jails to allow rakhi but without sisters & sweets this Raksha Bandhan||Pilibhit: In another first in the recorded history, women and girls will not be allowed to enter prison premises to tie rakhi to their brothers on the other side of bars on Raksha Bandhan due to Covid-19 pandemic. Administration of all the 71 prisons of the state will open booths at the entrance on August 1, where the sisters will be able to deposit envelopes with rakhi and ceremonial rice inside it and the names of the sender and receiver on its cover. No sweet and other eatable -- which used to pep up the festival -- will be allowed inside this time, a senior prisons official said. The envelopes will be taken till 4pm on August 1. Later, these sanitized envelopes will be handed over to the inmates with some special food and sweets made inside the prison on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan on August 3, which celebrates the bond between brothers and sisters. “Raksha Bandhan is being celebrated in jails even before the British era. This is the first time that it will not be observed. We have to take this step to check the spread of Covid-19 pandemic," Anand Kumar, director general of prison administration and reform, told TOI over phone.At least 606 inmates have tested positive for Covid-19 last week across the 71 jails in UP. Of them, 490 have tested positive in permanent jails while 116 in temporary jails. It came to the fore after antigen testing of 31,876 inmates across the state. At present, there are over one lakh inmates lodged in the 71 jails.On May 15, soon after 10 inmates of Agra Central Jail tested positive, the state’s chief minister Yogi Adityanath had instructed all the districts to make temporary jails. All those sent to jails are now being lodged in the temporary jails and are being tested for the Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-jails-to-allow-rakhi-but-without-sisters-sweets-this-raksha-bandhan/articleshow/77247785.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Meerut||Now, jailed gangster Sunil Rathi’s mother alleges threat to his life||Meerut: A day after Baghpat MLA Yogesh Dhama sought additional security claiming threat from gangster Sunil Rathi-- who is currently lodged in Tihar Jail-- the history-sheeter’s mother on Wednesday alleged that it was the other way around and her son’s life was in danger.On the legislator's claim that the jailed gangster threatened him, Rajbala Chaudhary, 60, said, “Provide me proof that my son (Rathi) threatened him. If Rathi had really called him from the jail then there would be a call detail report or any threat letter. The fact is that Dhama is doing all this to take political advantage in the upcoming village panchayat polls.”Rathi is accused of killing another gangster Munna Bajrangi in Baghpat jail July 9, 2018. He is now suspected to be operating from Tihar where he was transferred after Bajrangi’s murder. Last week, Rathi’s name cropped up in the murder of Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) worker Deshpal Singh. On Tuesday, MLA Dhama said that Rathi was irked because he had approached chief minister Yogi Adityanath over the massive illegal sand mining going on in his region, leading to a crackdown. “Illegal mining was going on in Baghpat’s Badrakha area. I had complained about it to the chief minister and told him how local farmers are being harassed by criminals involved in the mining. So a probe was launched and it found my claims to be true. And then a penalty of Rs 4crore was slapped on an aide of Rathi and the mining lease was also cancelled,” Dhama said.Citing the recent killing of RLD leader, Dhama claimed he has been getting inputs that Rathi’s goons were after him now. “Due to this crackdown, criminals involved in mining suffered financial loss to the tune of crores of rupees. A brick kiln owner was gunned down by Rathi’s men and I have learnt that his goons are now after me for complaint about the illicit mining lease,” MLA Dhama had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/now-jailed-gangster-sunil-rathis-mother-alleges-threat-to-his-life/articleshow/77247792.cms||Sandeep Rai
July 30, 2020||Goa||Educationists hail new edu policy for ushering in holistic changes||PANAJI: The new National Education Policy (NEP) will bring about structural changes at the school level, with pre-primary education now considered a part of the formal education system. At the higher education level, a more inter-disciplinary approach to academics will be allowed by diluting the present compartmentalisation into rigid streams, educationists in the state said, welcoming the new policy. They, however, said much will depend on the state’s seriousness in implementing the policy in the true sense. Academicians also said it may take longer to implement some of the changes than expected. “As both parents go to work in most cases, they prefer to enroll students to school at a younger age and it is therefore a good move to consider pre-primary education a part of formal education system. The 10+2 structure was in force for very long and it was time it was reviewed. Under RTE Act, compulsory education was upto Class VIII, now it has been extended upto Class XII and so all the benefits will also be extended upto Class XII,” said former chairman of Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education P R Nadkarni. He also appreciated the move to consider subjects like music, yoga, etc as a part of the curriculum. “It was something that existed, but it was the fault of schools and not the government that these subjects were treated as unimportant. Overall, the changes under the new policy will focus on imparting life skills. It will now all depend on the seriousness of the state government in implementating the policy,” he said. Formerly an advisor to the state government on education policies, Ramesh Gauns, said that it is good that the policy encourages a multi-disciplinary approach at the higher education level and will not rigidly compartmentalise streams like at present. He also said the introduction of skill-based education from Class VI is good provision of the policy, but may take many years to implement this feature in the true sense. “To implement all these changes, the training of teachers and their preparation for it should be simultaneous. So to see results exactly as envisaged in the policy may take much longer than expected,” said Gauns. Principal of Shree Mallikarjun College, Canacona, Manoj Kamat, said that the new education policy will lead to drastic changes to the higher education sector. “And I take it very positively because it has power to make systemic changes and transformational reforms. It aims to nearly double our Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) to 50% by 2035, and for this we will have to add 3.5 crore seats, which will create a massive capacity to cater to students. Also, higher education institutes will have only one umbrella regulatory body called the higher education commission, which will have more teeth and it will govern academic standards with penalty powers,” said Kamat, adding that such penalty powers were not existing with the current multiple bodies. This will help in streamlining the higher education sector to a large extent, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/educationists-hail-new-edu-policy-for-ushering-in-holistic-changes/articleshow/77250370.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
July 30, 2020||Goa||Goa CM okays new wholesale market project at Margao||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday reviewed and discussed the proposed wholesale fish market at Margao under the central sponsored scheme. Fisheries minister Filipe Nery Rodrigues showed the proposed design for the wholesale fish market prepared by Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation and the financial implications of the project. “The chief minister, after discussing with the officials of the fisheries department, expressed satisfaction and accorded his consent to the department of fisheries to go ahead with the project,” said a government official. The meeting to review the proposed wholesale fish market was held at the Paryatan Bhavan. The South Goa Planning and Development Authority and the fisheries department were in a tussle over control over the wholesale fish market. The initial estimate for the wholesale fish market, said a government official, was pegged at Rs 12 crore. The wholesale market complex will have facilities for truck parking, drainage system, and even provision for offices. GSIDC had appointed UCJ Architecture & Environment as the consultants for the project. Interestingly, Sawant has given the go ahead for the project even though austerity measures imposed in the state put all new infrastructure and capital intensive projects on hold. Nuvem MLA Wilfred D’Sa, secretary for fisheries P S Reddy, director for fisheries Shamila Monteiro, and GSIDC manager Sandeep Chodankar were present for the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-okays-new-wholesale-mkt-proj-at-margao/articleshow/77250378.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Meerut||Indiana Zones: Cupid struck woman dials helpline,tells cops her boyfriend not committing to marriage||Muzaffarnagar: A distress call on UP’s helpline number 112 put a police response team in a strange situation. When they reached out to the caller — a woman — at her home, she told them that her lover was “delaying marriage” and all she wanted, for now, an assurance from him. Police called both — the woman and the youth — to a police station in Muzaffarnagar, and eventually, the youth promised to the woman that he would “marry her as soon as his sister is wedded”.Sources with police said the incident took place on Tuesday in Jansath area of Muzaffarnagar, where a 24-year-old woman dialled 112 and asked for help. Soon, a Police Response Vehicle (PRV) approached her and she complained to them that her boyfriend, 26, was not picking her call for several days. She suspected that he was ignoring her since she asked him to marry. Later, she approached Jansath police station and — as she insisted — police made a call to her boyfriend, asking him to visit them.Meanwhile, upon getting information, both families also reached there only to make unsuccessful attempts to persuade the woman, who wanted a promise from her boyfriend that he would marry her. The couple has been in a relationship for several years, and the woman now wants to get settled with the youth, who runs a shop of electrical equipment. As both families gave up, the youth attempted to persuade the woman — with a promise and a rider — that he would marry her, but she would have to wait until his sister was married off, said sources, adding that after a long conversation, the woman finally agreed to wait until his sister is wedded. Jansath station house officer Dipak Chaturvedi said, “No case was filed as they settled the matter without police’s intervention and both families left the police station with their children.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/indiana-zones-cupid-struck-woman-dials-helplinetells-cops-her-boyfriend-not-committing-to-marriage/articleshow/77247802.cms||Mohd Dilshad
July 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Frame comprehensive plan for environment: NGT to UT||Chandigarh: With the Chandigarh administration having prepared an action plan to tackle air pollution, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has now directed the administration to frame a comprehensive plan for environment. The Union government had recently also sought a progress report from the Chandigarh administration on the implementation of recently submitted action plan to control air pollution in the city beautiful. In its recent directions, the NGT directed states and UTs, including the Chandigarh administration, to frame action plans for restoration of environment and implementation of the district environment plans, in coordination with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The CPCB may also prepare such plans for utilisation of funds available with it. The CPCB may file a compliance report to this effect within four months, the NGT directed. The UT in its action plan to control air pollution had submitted various plans from promoting battery-operated vehicles, green buffers along the traffic corridors and introducing intelligent traffic management system. The action plan was submitted to the Union government recently. The UT in its action plan had also submitted that they have already launched extensive drive against polluting vehicles and have even prepared an action plan to widen roads and improvement of infrastructure for decongestion of roads. The other initiatives mentioned in the action plan includes synchronisation of traffic signals in the city, covering open areas in more greener patches, and introducing water fountain at major traffic intersections wherever feasible with the use of tertiary treated water. The UT had submitted, “There has been an increase of around 60% in the number of vehicles in 10 years with no change in the length of roads. Increase of light motor vehicles (LMVs), basically cars, by more than 100% in the past 10 years in comparison to approximately 48% increase in two-wheelers. This has resulted in more congestion, ultimately contributing to air pollution.” The UT stated other factors, too, including road dust re-suspension, horticulture waste, and stubble burning in neighbouring states, leading to air pollution. The administration is also working on promoting hybrid and electric vehicles. To cut down the pollution level, the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) will induct electric buses. At present, around 3,000 e-rickshaws are plying in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/frame-comprehensive-plan-for-environment-ngt-to-ut/articleshow/77250377.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
July 30, 2020||Bareilly||Two private hosps to become Covid-19 facilities in Bareilly||Bareilly: After a surge in daily Covid-19 cases in Bareilly, the health department is now planning to designate two private hospitals in the city as Covid-19 hospitals. The private hospitals will treat only Covid-19 patients. Bareilly has reported 1,932 cases, including 1,190 active cases, till Tuesday.Chief medical officer Dr Vineet Shukla said, “On the direction of chief secretary, we are in talks with a few private hospitals to turn them into Covid-19 hospitals. We are planning to convert two hospitals for the purpose. Unlike government hospitals, the private hospitals will provide paid service to patients.” He added, “Once the private hospitals are designated as Covid-19 hospitals, only patients of Novel Coronavirus will be treated there. The non-Covid patients, who are currently undergoing treatment here, will be shifted elsewhere. It would be ensured that non-Covid patients do not face any inconvenience.”Officials said they are increasing the number of hospitals for Covid-19 as the cases are growing rapidly in the district. At present, the patients infected with the virus are being admitted to NER hospital and the 300-bed government hospital. Besides, three private medical colleges in Bareilly have been designated as Covid-19 level two and three hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-private-hosps-to-become-covid-19-facilities-in-bareilly/articleshow/77247804.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
July 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Researchers utilise corn husk to make energy storage material||HYDERABAD: Researchers of the Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad (IIT-H) have developed a simple and cost-effective method to derive ‘activated carbon electrode’ material for high-voltage super-capacitors from corn husk, which is Jotherwise discarded as waste and burnt. Carbon-based electrodes play a crucial role in development of energy storage devices such as super-capacitors and batteries, which are widely used in electrical vehicles. This development is important for India, especially for states such as Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, which are the first and second largest producers of corn in the country respectively. Due to lack of awareness, expertise and technology, potential of corn husk to be converted to valuable electrode material is not harnessed. At IIT-H, researchers adopted an affordable and efficient method that can enable this conversion, which would trigger the cascade of additional earning opportunities for the corn farmer and provision of a sustainable energy source. “We took corn husk and burnt it to extract carbon. We activated the carbon using potassium hydroxide (KOH) to obtain greater surface area. Higher the surface area, higher will be the storing capacity of the super-capacitors,” said Atul Suresh Deshpande, associate professor, department of materials science and metallurgical engineering, IIT-H, who led the research. “Due to low-cost precursors and simple processing method, this process of producing activated carbon can be easily adapted for large-scale commercial production,” he added. The related research paper has been recently published in the peer-reviewed Journal of Power Sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/researchers-utilise-corn-husk-to-make-energy-storage-material/articleshow/77250385.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Kochi||LPG cylinder blast kills three siblings in Kerala||PALAKKAD: Three siblings were killed when the LPG gas cylinder burst in their kitchen in Ongaloor grama panchayat near Pattambi. Nabeesa, 65, at Nambadath in Ongaloor escaped with injuries but her daughter Sabeera (45), sons Shajahan (40) and Badusha (38) died in Kozhikode Medical College on Tuesday night. The accident took place on Monday late night while Badusha, a mentally-challenged person, was cooking in the kitchen. The neighbours said that while they retired for the day they heard a big sound from Nabeesa’s house and rushed to see big flames coming out of the house. They tried to douse the fire with water from the neighbouring house. It took about half an hour to control the fire and rescue the four from the house. The neighbours informed the fire force and police who took the victims to hospital. They were first taken to Pattambi taluk hospital and then to a private hospital at Perinthalmanna. Since the conditions of the three siblings turned critical they were rushed to the Kozhikode Medical College, police said. The bodies of the three siblings were handed over to the family on Wednesday after postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/lpg-cylinder-blast-kills-three-siblings/articleshow/77247824.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Chandigarh||76-year-old’s suicide: Dealers shut petrol pumps for a day||By: Piyush Sarna MOHALI: With the Punjab state observing silent protest after 76-year-old G S Chawla committed suicide recently, a total of 74 petrol pumps in the Mohali district were non-operational on Wednesday from 8am to 5pm. While some citizens were a bit surprised to see the pumps non-operational, many visited the pumps in Mohali in a hope to get their vehicles filled. “A Few people have been coming since morning and are enquiring about the closure of the petrol pump,” said an employee at a Phase VII petrol pump. Mohali is one of the worst affected districts in Punjab as there is a huge discrepancy in the rates between Mohali and Chandigarh. Ashwinder Singh Mongia, president, Mohali District Petroleum Dealers’ Association (MDPDA), under the aegis of the Petrol Pump Dealers Association, Punjab (PPDAP), said, “A huge oil mafia with the excise department has been going on. We wanted to pay tribute to G S Chawla. He was reduced from riches to rags. He was one of the top dealers. We are being affected due to the wrong policies of the government. The Punjab government forced Chawla to take the extreme step.” When asked what the future of the petroleum dealers looks like, Mongia said if the situation remained the same, more and more suicide incidents will take place in the future. Mongia said three years back, all the factories in Mohali district were sourcing from the petrol pumps within the district, but later they started sourcing from Chandigarh only due to lower rates of the fuel and consumption in large volume.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/76-year-olds-suicide-dealers-shut-petrol-pumps-for-a-day/articleshow/77250379.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Middleman gets bail in bribery case||CHANDIGARH: A special CBI court has granted bail to middleman, Rajat, in a bribe case in which three constables of the UT police posted at the Maloya police station were booked by the CBI for allegedly demanding money from Maloya resident Deepak Shani by threatening to frame him in a case. Rajat was stated to have demanded the bribe on behalf of the cops. He was allowed to be released on personal bonds of Rs 1 lakh and was given time to furnish surety bond within 14 days. The matter dates back to June 19, when the CBI had arrested Rajat who had demanded money from Shani on behalf of the constables Nasib Khan, Krishan Malik and Shiv, the SHO’s driver, all from the Maloya police station. Complainant Deepak , a resident of the EWS flats at Maloya, had stated that on June 15, he, along with his friends, was sitting near his house around 7 pm when two cops arrived there. Deepak stated that around 10 minutes later, Rajat, who was known to him, arrived at his house and told him that his friends were caught by the cops and they had been taken to the police beat box. Rajat asked Deepak to accompany him to the beat box. On reaching there, Deepak found two constables, Naseeb Khan and Krishan Malik, there. As per the complaint, the cops allegedly asked Deepak whether he was selling smack in the area. The duo allegedly threatened to register a case against Deepak. The complaint further mentions that Rajat intervened and told Deepak that the cops would let him go if he paid a bribe of Rs20,000. Rajat left the spot and returned around 10 pm and told Deepak that the matter could be settled for Rs14,000, after which he would be allowed to go. Deepak then decided to approach the CBI and gave a complaint against Rajat and three cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/middleman-gets-bail-in-bribery-case/articleshow/77250386.cms||Neha Sharma
July 30, 2020||Goa||No record of Congress-BJP merger, says EC||Panaji: In a development that may cause some alarm among the 10 rebel MLAs who jumped from the Congress to the BJP, the Election Commission of India (ECI) said that it has no record of any merger between the Congress legislative party with the BJP in Goa. The ECI’s stance may also strengthen Congress’ plea before the Supreme Court and the state legislative assembly speaker to disqualify the 10 MLAs. State Congress president Girish Chodankar had applied to the ECI asking if the body had received any application seeking a merger between the Congress legislative Party and the BJP, and whether the ECI had approved such a merger. In response, ECI said that “there is no information/communication in this regard in the commission.” Chodankar posed the same question before the office of the chief electoral officer which said that information about the recognized political parties is available in the public domain. On July 10, 2019, 10 out of 15 Congress MLAs broke away and announced that they had merged with the ruling BJP. The group, led by then opposition leader Chandrakant Kavalekar, had met speaker Rajesh Patnekar in the evening and gave him a letter stating their intent to break away and merge with the BJP. The move brought down the Congress party’s strength to five in the 40-member house, even though the party had won 17 seats in the 2017 state assembly elections. The MLAs who split away include Atanasio Monserratte, Jennifer Monserratte, Francis Silveira, Philip Nery Rodrigues, Clafasio Dias, Wilfred D’Sa, Nilkant Halarnkar, Antonio Fernandes and Isidore Fernandes. Congress contends that the legislators have incurred disqualification under Article 191(2) of the Constitution and under the anti-defection law as the main Congress party has not split or merged with the BJP. Congress had approached the speaker seeking disqualification of the 10 MLAs, but with Patnekar delaying the hearing, Chodankar filed a petition before the Supreme Court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-record-of-congress-bjp-merger-says-ec/articleshow/77250387.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Chennai||Amid pandemic, Tamil Nadu tests investment positive||CHENNAI: More than a month into the Covid-induced lockdown, Tamil Nadu industries secretary N Muruganantham in an interview to TOI said it was the right time to do something good for the state. "The state has multiple strengths. We need to promote it properly," he said, elaborating on initiatives being taken to make Tamil Nadu an attractive investment destination. Read the entire story on TOI+https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/how-tamil-nadu-bagged-rs-18000-crore-investment-in-lockdown/articleshow/77254308.cms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/amid-pandemic-tamil-nadu-tests-investment-positive/articleshow/77249241.cms||D Govardan
July 30, 2020||Dehradun||Seven injured in LPG fire in Mussoorie||MUSSOORIE: Seven persons, including four women, were injured as a LPG cylinder caught fire in Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA)’s employee colony here on Wednesday. The incident occurred Wednesday morning after a gas leak in one of the residents’ house while the family was away. The gas cylinder caught fire due to a diya (lamp) that was lit in the house. According to the neighbours, the regulator of the gas cylinder exploded and damaged window panes and door of the house. “Neighbours tried to douse the fire and seven persons, including four women, were injured in the accident,” informed Pankaj Khatri, a municipal council member. Fire department officials and police rushed to the spot to control the fire, and the injured were rushed to the hospital for treatment. No serious injuries have been reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/7-injured-in-lpg-fire-in-mussoorie/articleshow/77247807.cms||Anmol Jain
July 30, 2020||Goa||Fisheries dept meets Sawant, wants SOP reimposed at jetties||Panaji: With the annual fishing season set to commence on August 1, fisheries minister Philip Neri Rodrigues and officials from the fisheries department met chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday and requested him to deploy police personnel at the fishing jetties across the state. “This is to ensure the smooth operation of fishing activities. Now the crew will start returning from their native states, so it must be ensured that they have been tested for Covid-19. We also want to ensure that social distancing is maintained among workers and that other directives of the SOP are followed,” director of fisheries Shamila Monteiro told TOI. She said the SOP put in place during the lockdown, prior to the start of the annual fishing ban, will be followed. In April, the fisheries department had issued a SOP following the central government’s guidelines to resume essential services, which included fishing. Social distancing, wearing of gloves and mask, using of sanitizers for crew and laborers aboard the fishing vessel are among the mandatory rules. Prior to the ban, fishermen were also urged to ensure social distancing and maintain proper hygiene practices while loading ice, water, ration, diesel and the loading and unloading of fish catch at the fish landing centers/points. Besides following these guidelines, the department has also said that auctioning of fish at the fish landing centers/points shall be carried out systematically by marking lines to ensure that social distance is maintained among bidders as well as sellers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fisheries-dept-meets-sawant-wants-sop-reimposed-at-jetties/articleshow/77250428.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Mangaluru||7,656 candidates to appear for CET today, tomorrow in DK||Mangaluru: As many as 7,656 candidates, including a student with Covid-19, will appear for the Common Entrance Test (CET), scheduled on Thursday and Friday. Additional deputy commissioner M J Roopa said that the Dakshina Kannada district administration has made elaborate arrangements with all SOPs in place. Roopa said that 7,656 candidates will write the entrance test in 17 centres spread across the district. There are about 52 students from Karnataka under Gadinadu Kannadiga Quota, . A total 471 students will arrive at the Karnataka-Kerala border, and they will be ferried to the respective examination centres in vehicles arranged by the district administration, said Roopa. The 17 examination centres in DK are situated at Mangaluru-9, Moodbidri-3, Belthangady-2, Puttur-2 and Sullia-1. Roopa said that a candidate who tested positive for the novel coronavirus will write the examination in NITK, Surathkal. “All the exam centres have been sanitised and officials briefed about SOPs,” she said. In Udupi district, 3,915 candidates including 2,061 girls will appear for the test in 10 centres. Last year, as many as 13,290 candidates had appeared for the test in 26 centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/7656-candidates-to-appear-for-cet-today-tomorrow-in-dk/articleshow/77247849.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Goa||Goa: Wait till August 7 for payment, agitating cane farmers told||PONDA: Irked over the government’s delay in releasing their payments, sugarcane farmers staged a sit-in agitation in front of Sanjivani sugar factory at Dharbandora on Wednesday. However, they soon suspended the protest following agriculture minister Chandrakant Kavalekar’s assurance to look into their demands. The farmers said the minister has assured to take them to chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday. “We have only suspended the agitation and not cancelled it. If the payment is delayed further, we will have to continue with our protest,” said Harshad Prabhudesai, vice-president of the Goa Sugarcane Farmers' Association. Stating that their demand is genuine, cooperation minister Govind Gaude said that only support price for the canes and harvesting charges are pending, and assured that the farmers would receive the payment by August 7. While the factory pays Rs 1,200, the agriculture department provides an additional Rs 1,800 as support price, totaling to Rs 3,000 per tonne of the canes supplied by the farmers to the factory. In addition to this, Rs 600 per tonne, including Rs 300 each by the factory and agriculture department, is paid to the farmers. The farmers have supplied a total 26,440 tonne canes to the factory which have been sent to sugar factories in Karnataka and Maharashtra. The farmers have supplied the canes till the imposition of lockdown in March, and since then the government is dilly-dallying over the payments, said a farmer. Gaude said that he met the chief minister after the farmers’ agitation on Wednesday, to which Sawant assured to make payments by August 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/wait-till-aug-7-for-payment-agitating-cane-farmers-told/articleshow/77250401.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Asaduddin Owaisi: 170 Covid-19 bodies buried in Balapur graveyard||HYDERABAD: AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Wednesday said that dozens of bodies have been brought to Balapur graveyard since two-and-a-half months. “I am saying this with much difficulty. If you don’t believe me go to Balapur graveyard, for which land was allocated after Akbaruddin Owaisi’s representation in 2018. In two-and-a-half months, more than 170 bodies were brought who died due to Covid-19,” he said. “Even if deduct 20%-30% of deaths assuming they are non-Covid deaths, still the number is big which includes our friends and parents who got infected and passed away,” said Owaisi. He recalled that across the country, around 15 lakh people have been infected and in Telangana, more than 350 people have died due to Covid-19, while inaugurating a Covid-19 testing centre in Mogalpura division, GHMC Charminar zone. He appealed people to get themselves tested and wear a mask. “I request you to get yourself tested and maintain social distancing. If you step out, for god’s sake please wear a mask,” appealed the AIMIM chief to residents. Ahead of Bakrid, he urged people to maintain social distancing while offering Namaz and urged people to ensure children and senior citizens are safe, including the ones who have diabetes and health issues related to lungs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/asad-170-covid-19-bodies-buried-in-balapur-graveyard/articleshow/77250442.cms||Nabinder Bommala
July 30, 2020||Lucknow||Made with love, these rakhis empower special children||By: Vidushi Agarwal LUCKNOW: The festival of Rakshabandhan evokes emotions of many kinds. Seizing the sentiment associated with it, various organizations in the city are using the opportunity to help empower multi-disabled children and support families of cancer patients. You can find rakhis made by children with learning or physical disabilities and order them to be delivered to your doorstep through various delivery platforms for contactless delivery.To keep the spirits of children high despite the Covid-19 pandemic, Drishti Samajik Sansthan, a home for children with various physical and learning disabilities, has made arrangements for delivering rakhi orders via food and delivery platforms. Like every year, they cannot put up stalls at various schools and institutes for the festival. Children use cloth, paper, motifs, mirrorwork and sequins to make attractive rakhis with all their concentration. Priced at Rs 70 onwards, the rakhis are sanitized and kept in a handmade box and bag. “Some children are visually, hearing- or speech-impaired while some have a physical or psychological deformity, but despite all odds, these children are more than enthusiastic to learn about all festivals,” said Shalu Singh, joint director of the institute. To provide employment to family members of cancer patients, Eeshwar Child Welfare Foundation is promoting rakhis made from recycled products. The decoration material is taken from discarded wedding invitations, clothes and other waste products. The rakhis are home delivered by the foundation members. “The preparation of rakhis for the festival of bonds aims to give employment to needy mothers of children with cancer so that they can empower their children and families. They are also making ‘puja thalis’ with newspaper,” said Sapna Upadhyay, director of the foundation, which was been doing so for six years. This year, the foundation has already delivered rakhis worth Rs 25,000 in approximately 25 designs in one month. “The most heartening is that the sale of these rakhis is growing at a rapid pace across the city and the mothers are able to profit from it. We are making use of social media to popularise these rakhis. Our members are cautious and utmost care of sanitization is taken in manufacturing and delivery,” said Sapna. Priced between Rs 15 and Rs 100, these rakhis and other handmade products made by these women help sustain around 40 families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/made-with-love-these-rakhis-empower-spl-children/articleshow/77250971.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur encounter: NSA to be invoked against accused of Bikru carnage||KANPUR: Police will invoke provisions of the National Security Act (NSA) against the accused in the Bikru incident, which claimed the lives of eight policemen and left several others injured. “Six persons including gangster Vikas Dubey, his nephew Amar Dubey, maternal uncle Prem Prakash Pandey, his other aides Atul Dubey, Bauwa Dubey and Prabhat Mishra were killed in encounter with police. Besides, we have till date sent five other accused to jail. A total of 14 others are still absconding and non-bailable warrants have been issued against them. We are now in the process of moving papers to the district authorities for slapping NSA against the five arrested accused, also, the property of all the absconding aides of Vikas will be attached once the formality in this regard will be over,” said SSP Preetinder Singh. He added, “For illegal encroachment on land by the accused, police have decided to also book them under Gangster Act and seek the help of district revenue officials as several complaints have surfaced against them in this regard after the Bikru incident.” The SSP further said the police had also put up posters with the names and photographs of 14 aides of the gangster, they have been proclaimed absconders. The police have put up posters at all major junctions in the city as well as in neighbouring Kanpur Dehat district. We have provided the contact number of the Police, the SSP added. “Not only the person who will help police in zeroing on the absconders will be rewarded, but his/her name will also be kept secret. There are a total 14 absconders in the posters, put up at various crossings, tehsil office, railway stations and bus stations. We have also put a cross mark on the photos of the accused including gangster Vikas Dubey and his right hand Amar Dubey, who were killed in the encounter,” the SSP told TOI. To recall, eight police personnel, including a Circle Officer Billhaur Devendra Kumar Mishra and three sub-inspectors, were shot dead while their five other colleagues, besides a civilian, injured in an encounter with gangster Vikas Dubey and his aides in Bikru village in Chaubeypur police area of the district on July 2 & 3 night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/nsa-to-be-invoked-against-accused-of-bikru-carnage/articleshow/77250888.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 30, 2020||Delhi||Ex-staffer of service centre held for stealing car||NEW DELHI: A former employee of a car service centre was arrested for allegedly stealing a Hyundai Creta from the parking lot of the Jahangirpuri metro station and selling it off to a bootlegger in Rae Bareli. Police said that the accused had tampered with the car’s locking mechanism to ensure that it malfunctioned and privately got in touch with the owner to repair it. He was able to find out about the location where it was parked and stole it. The owner of the stolen car, who owns a business in northwest Delhi, had approached the cop on June 29 saying that he had left the keys of the car with the parking area manager while heading for work, but the car was missing when he returned. On scanning the CCTV footage of the parking lot, the accused Akhlak Khan was spotted in the parking lot. However, the businessman said he knew the accused as one Pradeep Goel, an employee of an authorised service centre. DCP (metro) Jitender Mani said that the accused was nabbed in Noida, where he was running a garage. During interrogation, he admitted to having stolen the car and sold it to a person in Rae Bareilly. When the cops reached the buyer, it was found that the UP Police had already arrested him in a case of bootlegging. Police finally found the vehicle parked somewhere near Lucknow. They are probing whether the vehicle was used for bootlegging as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ex-staffer-of-service-centre-held-for-stealing-car/articleshow/77250475.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Three tiger cubs at Chhatbir Zoo named in online ceremony by Punjab CM Amarinder Singh||MOHALI: The three Royal Bengal Tiger cubs born at Chhatbir Zoo have been finally named as Dilnoor, Amar and Arjun. On the occasion of the International Tiger Day, Chhatbir Zoo tiger cubs got their names on Wednesday. The names of the cubs were chosen and approved by the Punjab chief minister, Captain Amarinder Singh, in an online ceremony here on Wednesday. Disclosing this here this afternoon, a spokesperson said the name of the female cub has been chosen as Dilnoor, while two male cubs have been named as Amar and Arjun. The name of the female cub as per the Central Zoo Authority, New Delhi, guidelines, must begin with the first letter of its mother’s named Diya, the spokesperson added. The name of the male cub should start similarly with first letter of its father’s name Aman. Earlier, the CM tweeted after approving names during the naming ceremony, which read, “Tiger is the pride of our country & we are home to over 70% of the world’s tiger population. On #International Tiger Day, let us rededicate ourselves to improving their habitat. Sharing pictures of tigress Diya with her cubs Amar, Arjun & Dilnoor in Chhatbir Zoo.” The Chhatbir Zoo, one of the largest zoos in India, is spread over 505 acre forest area in Mohali and is home to around 1,500 animals and birds, including five adult tigers and three new born cubs. To add another feather in the cap, tigress Diya of Chhatbir Zoo had delivered three cubs in November last year, the spokesperson further added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-tiger-cubs-at-chhatbir-named-in-online-ceremony-by-capt/articleshow/77250388.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
July 30, 2020||Meerut||Global Tiger Day: India Post releases special cover on Shivalik forest division, including wetland, in Saharanpur||Meerut: The first-ever special cover on Shivalik forest division in Saharanpur and Haiderpur Wetland in Muzaffarnagar was released by India Post in Saharanpur on the occasion of Global Tiger Day on Wednesday. The cover was released in the presence of Saharanpur commissioner Sanjay Kumar, superintendent of postal department, Saharanpur, Narsingh (known by his first name), chief forest conservator, Saharanpur forest range, VK Jain, among others, at the Circuit House. A proposal to declare Shivaliks as a buffer of Rajaji Tiger Reserve was sent to the UP government in June. Once approved, Shivalik forest division — spread over 33,000 hectares — would be the fourth tiger reserve in UP. “With the introduction of tigers in western Rajajji, the feline will eventually move towards Shivaliks,” said the commissioner. Meanwhile, Haiderpur wetland in Muzaffarnagar has become a new birding hotspot in UP with over 284 species of birds documented in the 3,000-acre wetland. Recently, 150-plus swamp deer, a schedule 1 species, were spotted in the area, making Haiderpur even more special place. A proposal has been sent to the central government through the state to declare the 18,000-acre of the wetland, between the confluence of the Solani and Ganga rivers, as a Ramsar site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/global-tiger-day-india-post-releases-special-cover-on-shivalik-forest-division-including-wetland-in-saharanpur/articleshow/77247832.cms||Sandeep Rai
July 30, 2020||Lucknow||In UP, 70.5% Covid patients are males, nearly half in 20-40 age bracket||LUCKNOW: Following the trend of more men being infected by coronavirus than women, 70.5% of Covid-19 patients in Uttar Pradesh are males. The age group most affected by the virus is 20-40 years, recording 49.3% of the total infections. UP has so far recorded 75,804 Covid-19 cases, 29,997 of which are currently active. Out of these, 70.5% are males while 29.5% are females. Additional chief secretary (health) Amit Mohan Prasad said, “Almost half (49.3%) of total Covid-19 patients in the state have been in the age group of 20-40 years. This is followed by the age group of 40-60 years (27.8%), 0-20 years (14.6%) and above 60 years (8.1%).” A senior government official said people in the age group of 20-40 years were those who were stepping out the most, and therefore, most susceptible to catching infection. “The data does not indicate whether these cases are symptomatic or otherwise, or prone to a severe impact of the virus, but was an indication of absolute numbers. Young people are stepping out either for work or for socialising. People in the 40-60 years bracket are largely stepping out for work. Therefore, we see the highest prevalence of cases in these groups,” he said. The officer said people above 60 years were barely moving out since they were aware that the virus was affecting them the most. “They are most likely to catch infection from others at home. As schools and colleges are closed, those below 20 are also not stepping out,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/in-up-70-5-covid-patients-are-males-nearly-half-in-20-40-age-bracket/articleshow/77250901.cms||Neha Lalchandani
July 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Flesh trade: After transfer, 3 cops suspended||Chandigarh: After transferring three cops of Sector 61 police post, who failed to have any information about the sex racket, the UT police department suspended them with immediate effect on Wednesday. All the three policemen were already sent to the police lines in Sector 26 after a sex racket was busted by the ASP south division in a hotel at Kajheri village in Sector 52 on July 25 night. Notably, in the past seven months, 18 cops have been suspended, including SHO Jaswinder Kaur and two cops of the traffic police. The UT police department has dismissed two traffic cops for allegedly demanding bribe of Rs 500 and three traffic cops were suspended in another bribery case in which they demanded Rs 1,000. The suspension orders have been signed by Nilambari Jagadale, SSP UT. The order reads, “All the three cops, during their suspension, would remain posted at the police lines in Sector 26.” The suspended cops are head constables Pawan Kumar, Brijesh Kumar and constable Kavit of Sector 61 police post. The police department has suspended them for failing to garner information about the sex racket that was busted with the arrest of five people and ten women were rescued from a hotel. Mini Bhardwaj, in charge of Sector 61 police post, was also sent to the police lines in Sector 26. Besides sending them to police lines, a departmental inquiry has also been marked against ASI Balwinder Singh and constable Ashok Kumar for roaming around the hotel in Sector 52, where the sex racket was busted. The police on Saturday night, under the supervision of Neha Yadav, ASP south division, busted the sex racket at a hotel in Sector 52 and nabbed five persons for running the racket. Sector 34 police also busted a sex racket at hotel in Burail and arrested five persons, including a woman pimp, and rescued three women from the hotel. All the accused were sent to Burail jail. However, no suspension or transfer orders against any cops of Burail police post or Sector 34 police station has been issued so far from the senior officials. Many residents of Burail have been complaining about the sex racket being operated from many small hotels or houses in Burail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/flesh-trade-after-transfer-3-cops-suspended/articleshow/77250447.cms||Pawan Tiwari
July 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gold price touches ₹54,900 per 10g||Ahmedabad: Continuing its rally, gold price touched another record-high level in Ahmedabad market on Wednesday to settle at Rs 54,900 per 10 gram, including 3% goods and services tax (GST). The price rose by Rs 640 in a single day against Tuesday’s Rs 54,260 per 10 gram. Spurred by the concerns about the impact of the coronavirus pandemic on the global economy coupled with escalating US-China trade tensions, spot gold price rose sharply in the international market to touch $1,980 per ounce. Consequently, prices rose in the domestic market, according to gold analysts. “Gold price has already breached the record-high level since 2011 and even though there may be minor fluctuations, the overall price trend will be bullish over the next few months,” said a bullion trader in the city. “This is because the economic uncertainty is very high and is being aggravated with several countries reporting a fresh surge of coronavirus cases.” Gold price has been on an upward trend over the past ten days and prices have rallied every single day. Gold stood at Rs 50,875 per 10 gram on July 20 and in a span of ten days, spiked by 8% during this period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gold-price-touches-54900-per-10g/articleshow/77250455.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: WHO guidelines for Bakrid amid Covid-19||HYDERABAD: Ahead of Bakrid, the festival of sacrifice, falling this year on August 1, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has come out with a set of guidelines for safe celebrations in view of the Covid-19 threat. Apart from advising people on social distancing and sanitary measures during the Eid congregational prayers, the WHO guidelines also talked about how to deal with the slaughter of sheep without the risk of Covid-19 transmission among humans or from humans to animals. The health body has advised against slaughtering sick sheep and laid emphasis on procuring animals through a trusted official procedure. “There is evidence of Covid-19 transmission at the human-animal interface. Current evidence suggests that humans infected with SARS-CoV-2 can infect other mammals. However, it remains unclear whether or not these infected mammals pose a significant risk for transmission back to humans. Nevertheless, other zoonotic diseases are associated with livestock and have resulted in disease outbreaks,” WHO said in its Bakrid guidelines. WHO suggested use of culturally and religiously sanctioned greetings that avoid physical contact, such as waving, nodding or placing hand over the heart. “Prohibit large numbers of people gathering in public places associated with Eid activities such as markets, shops and mosques. If allowed, a mechanism should be in place to regulate such activities and avoid gathering of people,” the WHO document said. Referring to the ritual of sacrifice, WHO said animals that appear sick should not be slaughtered. There should be dedicated space for quarantine and isolation of suspected ill animals. “Perform adequate veterinary checks for livestock to mitigate other zoonosis and infection. Discourage slaughter at home and increase the number or capacity of slaughter facilities to encourage best practices and ensure safety and physical distancing standards. Slaughter facilities and equipment should be properly maintained,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/who-guidelines-for-bakrid-amid-covid/articleshow/77250464.cms||Syed Akbar
July 30, 2020||Goa||Mechanised fishing season off to poor start||Panaji: The annual 61-day fishing ban which was reduced to 45 days this year owing to Covid-19 will culminate on July 31. While those involved in mechanised fishing would be seen gearing up for the season during this time, this year purse-seine fishing boat owners have decided to postpone the fishing season to September 1. “At any given point of time, we have between 30-35 crew members aboard and each vessel stays at sea for two weeks or more. We cannot operate without a large team,” president of Cutbona Boat Owners’ Association Savio D’Silva, said. Harshad Dhond, president of All Goa Fishermen’s Association has attributed the reason to lack of labour force since majority of the crew aboard large vessels are migrant workers. “The season was expected to start at least by August 12, however, we are unable to get labour force for the same. We have not initiated calling them back to work due to the risk involved and, on their end, they’re not keen to come here either. The fishing season for us will therefore be delayed,” Dhond said. Vinay Tari, a fisherman who operates from the Cutbona jetty, said that the density of workers at the jetty is such that there is a risk to operate all at once. “Even if the workers return from the neighbouring states, it will be a huge risk for us since the jetty has a crowd of 3,000-4,000 workers present on a normal day. We will have to go into a temporary halt till September, or the jetty may get sealed if it becomes a containment zone,” he said. There are two types of fishing activities that commence from August 1, purse-seine fishing and regular trawling nets. The trawlers function with five to seven crew members compared to purse-seine vessels and some of them are gearing up for the fishing season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mechanised-fishing-season-off-to-poor-start/articleshow/77250454.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Kochi||Malayali nurse stabbed, run over in US, hubby charged with murder||KOTTAYAM: The Malayali nurse who was brutally killed outside the hospital in Florida, US, was the victim of domestic violence and her husband has been charged with the crime, local media and police said. Merin Joy, 28, who hailed from Monippally in the district, was stabbed multiple times while leaving Broward Health Coral Springs hospital, where she worked, on Tuesday. Witnesses said the suspect drove a car over her body after stabbing her. Police arrested the husband, Philip Mathew, 34, who is from Veliyanad. He has been charged with first degree murder. Cops are calling this as an incident of domestic dispute. Mathew fled the scene after the attack. Though Merin was rushed to the nearest trauma hospital her life could not be saved. Mathew was traced within hours from the description provided by witnesses about the suspect’s car. He was found in a hotel room in the region with a self-inflicted knife wound. He was transported to a hospital. Merin had started working at Broward Health in August 2018. Monday’s overnight shift was supposed to be her last day at the hospital as she had given notice and was relocating to Tampa. The couple had been staying separately for the last few months. 2-year-old daughterTheir two-year-old daughter, Nora, is with Merin’s parents in Monippally. Merin had left her with them the last time she visited in December 2019. Her mother Mercy and Nora were to join her in the US this May but their plans were delayed by the pandemic. Merin’s father, Joy, is a farmer. According to James, a close relative, Merin and Mathew got married on July 30, 2016. “It was an arranged marriage, Mathew was also in the US,” he said. There were issues between them and the relation worsened following Nora’s birth. “The family was in Kerala last December. Merin was not allowed to visit her parents and her father had to go bring her home. Mathew left for US alone and Merin left on January 29 after leaving Nora with her parents,” he added. Final video callFew hours before the attack, Merin had talked to her parents and sister, who is also pursuing her graduation in nursing, over a video call. She had also watched her daughter play for some time. July 30 was Merin's birthday as well as her marriage anniversary. Intelligent & cheerfulMerin did her BSc nursing from St John’s National Academy of Health Sciences in Bengaluru. Her tutor, Bindhu Mathew, remembers Merin as an intelligent, cheerful person. She was the best student in her batch. “She was like an angel, liked by all,” said Bindhu, who is the HOD of medical surgical nursing at the institution. Bindhu was also Merin’s local guardian. She recounted her meeting Merin in Kerala last Christmas. “She was looking different and had lost her cheerfulness,” she said. Read this story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/malayali-nurse-stabbed-run-over-in-us-hubby-charged-with-murder/articleshow/77247882.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: 78% Covid patients of 70-plusage cured at medical colleges||LUCKNOW: While senior citizens and kids are considered more vulnerable to the coronavirus, the reports coming from UP medical colleges throw up a pleasant surprise. Out of 1,277 Covid patients, aged 70 and above, being treated at the state medical colleges, 1,000 -- or 78% -- have been discharged and all the 421 patients aged below five are completely cured of the pandemic infection. Besides, 230 coronavirus affected women have successfully undergone caesarean section. Giving this information to TOI after reviewing the performance of 50 medical colleges and science institutes handling Covid cases, additional chief secretary, medical education, Rajneesh Dubey said that adequate availability of medical and para-medical staff and increased testing facility have played a key role in containing spread of the infection in the state. The government has also ensured availability of beds in hospitals for serious patients, he added. In all, 14,000 patients out of 20,000 have been discharged from various medical colleges, the ACS said, adding that the treatment of senior citizens and children was a challenge, but over 90 per cent cases have been treated well, while a few are still under treatment. Conducting one lakh tests every day in less than three months' time is definitely a great achievement for the UP government, he added. When the pandemic started surfacing in the state, there was only one lab with a capacity of conducting 100 tests per day. Now, the number of labs has risen to over 30 and tests have crossed the one-lakh mark, he said and added that all this was not possible without the active support of chief minister Yogi Adityanath who is leading the Covid battle from the front and was personally monitoring the medical infrastructure and the patients’ care network. On the CM's directions, 11 medical colleges were providing 'remdesivir' injection to Covid patients free of cost. Similarly, two medical science institutes were not charging for providing 'tocilizumab' dosages to the needy. Out of 75 patients, who were given plasma therapy, 60 are now normal, he added. The ACS, who has extensively toured hotspots in Gautam Budh Nagar, Agra, Meerut and Ghaziabad, said that 50 medical colleges in these districts, both in public and private sectors, were attending to Covid patients and there was no dearth of beds or drugs. On Dubey’s report, the CM had removed district magistrate and CMO of Gautam Budh Nagar for laxity. The CM has made Dubey as head of a special committee for upgrading the medical infrastructure in the state besides setting up BSL two and three level labs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/78-covid-patients-of-70-plusage-cured-at-medical-colleges/articleshow/77250892.cms||Subhash Mishra
July 30, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Transport issues affect Thanjavur veena sales||Despite being one of the top preferences among Carnatic music teachers and students across the country and globe, the Thanjavur veena finds it difficult to make it to the hands of its fans because of the restriction on transportation during the Covid-19 pandemic. "Customers have been making enquiries from everywhere for purchasing the veena but lack of transportation in the past four months has left us without options. We have to defer delivery of consignments," says the president of Thanjavur musical instruments workers’ cooperative cottage industrial society limited P Srinivasan. Around 50 artisans are part of the Thanjavur Musical Instruments Workers’ Cooperative Cottage Industrial Society, which had pursued the GI tag for Thanjavur Veena and got it in 2012. "Around 5 to 6 pieces used to be sold before the lockdown, now it has been reduced to one or two local customers," says Srinivasan. Apart from the society members, 450 others are involved in the craft across Thanjavur. Matured jackwood wood used to make the veena, gives it a characteristic sound that the specialised craftsmans sharpen to make the functional resonator. "The excellent reverberation of jackfruit tree makes its output a unique one. As the wood gets dried over the years, the amplification of the sound increases naturally. The colour of the instrument also changes from yellow to light brown to dark brown as it gets older," says Srinivasan. The Ekandha veena is made of a single piece of jackfruit tree wood, while the other type of veena is made from three pieces of wood. Since the present form of Saraswati veena with 24 fixed frets was modified by the Thanjavur ruler Ragunatha Nayak (1614 - 1632), it began to be called the Thanjavur veena. It’s an arduous task to shape the instrument and is a collective work that requires expertise of artisans exclusive for each part of the veena to work together. A 4.25ft Veena consists of ‘kudam’ (resonator), ‘dandi’ (hollow neck) and requires a bit of rose wood, fibre, bronze. The ‘melam’ (consists of seven strings, wax bar and 24 metal frets) requires knowledge of music and only five such artisans are involved in the work in Thanjavur. The price of Veena is ranging from Rs 25,000 to Rs50,000. The younger generation does not feel the hard work and skill provides good remuneration and have moved away from the craft. M Kamatchi, 62, who is one of the few people who turns the jackfruit tree wood, sourced from Panruti, into the shape of the ‘kudam’ says, "We are awaiting for normalcy to return so that we can get more work and income." Sixty-seven-year old veena artisan M Sammandham says longer lockdown will adversely affect business. "Though regular parcel service is allowed, it is infrequent now. So, we cannot assure delivery," he says. Though the artisans are not in dire straits, they hope the state will not wait for them to suffer further losses and consider providing some financial assistance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/transport-issues-affect-thanjavur-veena-sales/articleshow/77249307.cms||Gokul Rajendran
July 30, 2020||Nagpur||‘Corporatized’ OFB may not be able to fill irregular orders: Unions||Nagpur: Even as unions prepare for an indefinite strike against the government’s plan to corporatize the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB), the factories have, on an emergency basis, taken up supply of anti-personnel claymore landmines following a demand in the light of tension along the Chinese border. Sources in the OFB said the orders for claymore mines were placed in 2017 after a gap of eight years. But there was a fresh demand in the wake of tension on the eastern front. Even as there were no formal orders at that time, the production line was still maintained to meet any exigency, despite the cost involved, a source said. OFB sources, including the unions, have stressed that orders from the Army have not been consistent. It may not be financially viable for OFB to work as a corporation if orders are not steady. For self-sufficiency after corporatisation, the factories will need steady indents from the armed forces. For example, in 2018-10, the actual target for the supply of 155mm and 105mm artillery ammunition, and 5.56mm rifle units was cut by 50,000, 2.5 lakh and 10 crore rounds respectively as against the number indicated earlier. The approved target projections too were reduced by over 20% in 2017, 2018 and 2019, said a source citing data related to the factories’ workload. The targets for ammunition items for year 2019-20 were given in February 2019 in the form of a letter of intent. A firm target was only received in September 2019. Targets of clothing items agreed upon in a meeting held in February 2019 were reduced when a final order was received in March. There was a further cut in August, including a sizeable reduction in orders for combat trousers, mosquito nets, and parachutes. Orders for extreme cold climate clothing and other cold weather material was received only in the middle of the financial year, said a source citing the data. Orders for limpet mines were placed after a gap of 13 years in 2017. Though the production line had to be maintained for all these years, the source said. Unions again reject corporatisation On Tuesday, in a meeting with the secretary (defence production), the unions rejected a proposal to corporatize the structure. The three unions said if the government continues with the plan, there will be no choice but to take serious action. The Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh (BPMS) said in the meeting the factories had supplied over 2,000 lots of ammunition from 2013 to 2019. The defect rate was 0.18% of total supply as against global tolerance standards of 0.50%. It stressed that the rates of equipment like T-90 tanks, 84mm gun, bimodular charges, 125mm tank ammunition and AK-630 naval guns are less than the price offered in international bidding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/corporatized-ofb-may-not-be-able-to-fill-irregular-orders-unions/articleshow/77250472.cms||Shishir Arya
July 30, 2020||Vadodara||95 new cases, two deaths in Vadodara||Vadodara: The west zone of Vadodara city now seems to be in the firm grip of Covid-19. Out of the 95 new cases reported since Tuesday evening in the city and district, 37 were reported from this zone of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC). Those who tested positive included Congress corporator from the Navayard area Atul Patel. He was admitted to a private hospital in the Amitnagar area. With the fresh cases reported on Wednesday, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the city went up to 4,476. VMC also confirmed two more deaths taking the total number of deaths to 84. The 37 new cases in western zone were evenly spread in different areas. These included those form the OP Road, Tandalja, Subhanpura, Vasna-Bhayli Road, Alkapuri, Gorwa and Gotri. Seventy-nine more patients were discharged from different Covid-19 treatment facilities as well as home quarantine on Wednesday. With this, the total number if discharged patients went up to 3,425. The number includes those who died due to comorbidities after testing positive for Covid-19. As many as 967 persons remained under treatment in the city and district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/95-new-cases-two-deaths-in-vadodara/articleshow/77247462.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Lucknow||Soil from Aishbagh Ram Lilaground given for Ram Temple||Lucknow: A pot full of soil from Aishbagh Ram Leela ground was handed over to Ayodhya Shodh Sansthan by the Ram Leela Samiti on Wednesday for the ‘bhoomi pujan’ of Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5. The Aishbagh ground is said to have been visited by the saint poet Tulsidas who wrote ‘Ramcharitmanas’ when he visited Lucknow in 16th century. Tulsidas is said to have started the tradition of ‘Ram Leela’ at the ground. After chanting of mantras and some rituals, the members of Aishbagh Ram Leela Samiti gave the soil and a silver coin for the bhoomi poojan of Ram temple. “Lord Lakshman was always there with Lord Ram and obeyed him, and now the soil of ‘Lakshmanpuri’ (Lucknow) will be used in the foundation of Ram temple,” said president of the samiti, Harish Chandra Agrawal. “We will feel even more connected with the temple and our sentiments will be attached to it besides faith,” he added. Samiti secretary Aditya Dwivedi said, “In the 16th century, Tulsidas used to come here with several sadhus and spent ‘chaumaas’ (the four months of monsoon). During those times, Ram Leela was performed by sadhus. Though, Tulsidas translated Valmiki’s ‘Ramayana’ in Awadhi, only a few people could understand it. So, Ram leela was enacted for the audience. It has been going on since then.” The Aishbagh Ram Leela Samiti will also perform a special puja at the ground on August 5 and will light earthen lamps to mark the bhoomi poojan ceremony in Ayodhya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/soil-from-aishbagh-ram-lilaground-given-for-ram-temple/articleshow/77251037.cms||Aditi Singh
July 30, 2020||Agra||118 more Covid +ve cases in Bareilly, 35 infected in Meerut||Bareilly/Meerut/Agra: Bareilly district continued to report over 100 cases on its fourth consecutive day as 118 more people were tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. With these new cases, the district tally is now on the threshold of crossing the 2,000 mark. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Vineet Shukla said, "A 60-year-old man died due to Covid-19 on Wednesday. While the death rate in the district has decreased to 2.6%." Bareilly has reported a total of 1,995 cases, including 53 deaths, so far. Moreover, at least 35 people, including two health workers and a driver, tested positive for Covid-19 in Meerut on Wednesday, taking the total tally to 2,069, confirmed Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's CMO. And one new death took the toll to 89. In Agra district, at least 29 new Covid cases surfaced on Wednesday, taking the district tally to 1,730. These included two kidney patients, three patients of SARI, two patients of acute respiratory distress syndrome, two patients of influenza-like illness and a patient of coronary artery infection. Also, 17 Covid-19 patients were discharged. Of the 1,730 cases, 81.04% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are now 229 active Covid-19 cases. At least 27 people in Shahjahanpur and 11 in Budaun were also found positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/118-more-covid-ve-cases-in-bareilly-35-infected-in-meerut/articleshow/77247896.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Surat||Farmer held for stealing half-a-dozen temple bells||Surat: A 42-year-old farmer was nabbed on Tuesday by people from Vasva village on the outskirts of the city for his alleged involvement in a series of thefts of brass bells from temples in different villages.The accused identified as Yogesh Prajapati of Ilav village near Hansot in Bharuch was handed over to police by villagers. Investigation revealed that he was involved in the theft of six bells worth Rs 36,000 from six temples. Police have booked him in three separate offences registered in Hazira and Ichhapore police stations. After thefts of bells from two temples in Vasva village, the locals had examined the CCTV footages in which a man was seen stealing the bells. On Tuesday some villagers noticed Prajapati moving on a motorcycle. Some villagers found Prajapati’s face similar to the thief seen in the CCTV footage. So they chased and stopped Prajapati. They found tools which are used to separate the bell from a chain on him. Seeing the huge crowd, Prajapati confessed of stealing the bells. Police said that Prajapati had been stealing bells from temples since last few months. He used to go to the temples in the afternoon and steal the bells when no one was around. He then sold the bells in a shop in Kosamba. Prajapati has been booked for thefts at Sakariya Hanumanji Temple in Junagam of Hazira; Santoshi Mata Temple and Paldevi Mata Temple at in Vasva village and Sindhvai Mata, Verai Mata and Hanumanji temple in Damka village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/farmer-held-for-stealing-half-a-dozen-temple-bells/articleshow/77247926.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula: Humble warriors battle corona, cobras||PANCHKULA: The risk of being bitten by India’s most venomous land snake, the Common krait, or by the Russell’s viper, which leads to maximum deaths, did not deter a doughty and youthful team constituted as the Rapid Task Force (RTF) by the Panchkula municipal corporation (MC). By intervening and rescuing snakes from homes and gardens, the RTF saved both humans and reptiles from a bloody conflict.  As the invisible terror of a deadly virus struck deep root and families baulked at performing the last rites of their beloved ones, the snake rescuers have been called upon to perform another hazardous task: to collect bio-medical and other solid/kitchen wastes from Covid quarantine centres and isolation homes. Covid waste being removed from an isolation homeGovernment employees mandated to perform waste collection tasks were not up to the challenge, so the onerous duty fell upon the snake-rescue team. The dual tasking of rescuing snakes, monkeys, sambars, monitor lizards on the one hand and removing hazardous Covid waste on the other stretched the RTF to the extreme limits but they rose to the occasion and established themselves as unsung, frontline warriors against the new coronavirus, which had evoked as much dread as a black cobra roving in a living space at night. “When the venom of snakes does not scare us, how will coronavirus scare us? None of us has contracted the virus though we are performing the waste collection duties, even foregoing the celebration of our traditional festivals. We have to travel to peripheral areas such as Raipur Rani, Kalka and Barwala to collect Covid waste and negotiate rocky terrains with our vehicles. The employees who should have been doing this task got afraid of collecting Covid waste so were asked to take over the responsibility in an emergency situation. We are doing the task without hesitation. We have had a long experience working with wildlife and this has helped us tackle hazardous waste collection also,” RTF member Alfaaz, told TOI. Alfaaz’s RTF colleagues include Mohammad Ali, Shah Rukh, Anil, Syed Ali and Shamshaad. Though collection of biomedical wastes does not fall under the mandate of the MC, the unprecedented crisis evolving from the pandemic resulted in innovative cross-department tasking. “The RTF was set up in 2018 to rescue wildlife and was a brainchild of then MC commissioner Rajesh Jogpal and it has served the society and nation well in the crisis also. No other local body in Haryana has such an RTF for wildlife rescue. We have allocated three vehicles for Covid waste collection. The RTF and some more employees make up a 12-member team for the waste collection. The RTF is provided with proper protection kits and follow protocols while collecting waste from quarantine centres and isolation homes. The waste is handed over to Ess Kay Hygienic Service, with which we have a contract for disposal. The hospitals directly dispose offtheir wastes through contracts with the same company,” Jarnail Singh, executive officer, MC, told TOI. The RTF juggles the time available between answering rescue calls for wildlife with the task of Covid waste collection. They rescue snakes from old buildings, posh colonies with marble flooring, peripheral villages. During one such operation, the RTF rescued 11 snakes (four Rat snakes, three Russell’s vipers, two Common kraits and two Spectacled cobras from one plot under construction at Raipur Rani. The snakes just kept pouring out of crevices and holes from that plot! “As the monsoon season is under way, we are receiving many snake calls. On an average, we rescue about 250 snakes per year. We also catch monkeys or scare them away from residential areas. We have been provided with snake-rescue equipment but we do get bit sometimes. I have myself been bitten twice while rescuing snakes but both times it was a non-venomous Rat snake,” Mohammad Ali told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/humble-warriors-battle-corona-cobras/articleshow/77250462.cms||Vikram Jit Singh
July 30, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Man arrested under Pocso Act||MANGALURU: The Dakshina Kannada district police arrested a 50-year-old man under the Pocso Act for sexually harassing a five-year-old in Bellare police station limits. The arrested accused is Selavkumar, who stayed at a rented home in Bellare. Police said that accused used to lure a five-year-old girl with chocolates, and was sexually harassing her since four months. A few days ago the victim told about her ordeal to her parents, who later filed a complaint at the jurisdictional police station under the Pocso Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/man-arrested-under-pocso-act/articleshow/77247916.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Lucknow||UP government working on global supply chain policy||LUCKNOW: UP government is working on a policy to develop UP into a global supply chain. MSME minister Sidharth Nath Singh said: “As per the directions of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, we are working towards making UP into a global supply chain. For this, a new export policy will be finalised soon. The policy will have two parts, one will be short term where manufacturing of textiles, garments, footwear, machinery parts, carpets, handloom and handicrafts will be encouraged. In the long term, export of electronics, food processing, chemicals.” Singh said that due to political upheaval in the world, there was a possibility that China’s market share would reduce. The goods that China exports are also manufactured in UP, he said, adding that if China’s share decreased, UP could take advantage of the situation to increase its own market share.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/state-govt-working-on-global-supply-chain-policy/articleshow/77250924.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: A song for children to overcome corona blues||CHENNAI: Lockdown life is such a bore, online lessons are such a torture, when will we get some respite? These are the answers that Tamil writer-filmmaker Ajayan Bala got while trying to document the frustration of children for a fight Corona song that he plans to release in August on YouTube. Composed by music director Taj Noor, the three-minute song will have four parts, with indoor action sequences and animation characters. “Children are restricted inside the four walls of their homes due to the Covid outbreak. The song reflects the outbursts of the children. It also shows their unity when it comes to the fighting the pandemic,” said Ajayan Bala. The song will be released in Tamil and in English. For Taj Noor, composing the score for the Tamil version was easy, but tougher in English as it was based on western rap style. Singers Deepak Blue, Surmukhi, Sai Gayathri and Akshaya have lent their voices. Tamil writer Ramesh Vaidya wrote the lyrics in Tamil, which was translated into English with some changes. The song begins with, “Deadly Covid virus, life-threatening virus, appeared from nowhere, causing havoc everywhere.” The song begins with a general view of the coronavirus, then moves to the children’s version and the third part of the song has a narration of the sufferings of people. The fourth session has ‘nature’s voice’, stressing on destruction of resources by humans. Ajayan Bala said the post-production work was on. “We are planning to release the song in Tamil and English together. It’s my tribute to the children who miss their school and friends. The music is not only the outburst of children, it also talks about how to fight the virus,” he said. The song is produced by Srinivasan Somasundaram of TS film productions, Canada.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/a-song-for-children-to-overcome-corona-blues/articleshow/77249317.cms||M T Saju
July 30, 2020||Bhopal||MP BJP chief, two more ministers test positive for Covid-19||BHOPAL: Coronavirus is spreading alarmingly in the Madhya Pradesh cabinet and BJP leadership. State party chief VD Sharma, ministers Tulsiram Silawat and Ramkhelawan Patel, and BJP organizational general secretary Suhas Bhagat have tested positive in the last 24 hours. The top three functionaries in Madhya Pradesh BJP leadership -- chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, VD Sharma and Bhagat are now infected with coronavirus. In fact, all the top leaders from MP who had attended Governor Lalji Tandon’s funeral in Lucknow on July 21 have been infected – Chouhan, Sharma, Bhagat and Bhadoria, who was the first to be detected with the virus a week ago. Defence minister Rajnath Singh, UP Governor Anandiben Patel and UP CM Yogi Adityanath were also at the funeral. CM Chouhan, who was admitted to hospital last Saturday, tweeted on Wednesday evening: “The BJP state president and Khajuraho Lok Sabha MP is unwell. I pray for his swift recovery.” Silawat asks contacts to get testedMP BJP media incharge Lokendra Parasar confirmed Sharma had tested positive and said he was being admitted to Chirayu Hospital, the same as the CM. “All his close contacts have been instructed to get tested for Covid-19. I have tested negative for the infection, and I might repeat the test in a few days on medical advice,” he said. Bhagat is under home quarantine. डॉक्टर्स के निर्देश पर हम लोग होम क्वारनटाइन हो रहें हैं। मुझसे निकट संपर्क में रहने वाले लोग भी क्वारनटाइन हो रहें… https://t.co/DETovcEd87— Tulsi Ram Silawat (@tulsi_silawat) 1595959701000A senior bureaucrat in the CMO was also detected with the virus on Wednesday. Minister Manish Sisodia’s staff have been infected as well. MoS Ramkhelawan Patel has also been diagnosed with Covid-19 infection. Despite Chouhan asking ministers who were in contact with him to quarantine themselves, Silawat had attended party worker meets and even a village choupal in Sanwer on Monday. His wife has tested positive, too. “I ask all those who have come in contact with me to get themselves tested,” Silawat said. That figure may run into scores, if not hundreds, going by Silawat’s schedule over the past few days. He was health minister in the Kamal Nath cabinet in the early days of coronavirus spread in the state. “Medical consultation, yoga, pranayam, immunity boosters and self-confidence are treatments for Covid-19. We will surely defeat it,” Silawat tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-bjp-chief-2-more-ministers-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/77249318.cms||Jamal Ayub
July 30, 2020||Goa||Sanjivani to procure canes for next 3 yrs||Ponda: Setting aside the dilemma over plantation of new crop, cooperation minister Govind Gaude has assured farmers that the Sanjivani sugar factory would procure canes cultivated by them as usual for next three years. The farmers were in fix over the government’s decision to close down the factory permanently. However, the government has ruled out the possibility of shutting down the factory in the near future. Gaude said the sugar factory will purchase all canes produced across the state as usual. "At least for next three years, Sanjivani will procure the sugarcanes as usual,” the minister said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sanjivani-to-procure-canes-for-next-3-yrs/articleshow/77250460.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Eatala Rajender flags off Covid testing buses||HYDERABAD: State health minister Eatala Rajender on Wednesday inaugurated special buses designed for intelligent monitoring and testing for Covid-19. “Tracing, testing and treatment is a continuous process. Testing has increased to 17,000 per day in the state now and around 80% the patients are being kept in home quarantine. Doctors and officials monitor their health. Retired doctors are also being roped in,” the minister said at the launch. Saying that rapid antigen testing is being done at primary health centres and basti dawakhanas too, the minister stressed that patients do not have to bear any expenses and advised people not to go to private facilities. “The government will take care of everything. Symptomatic patients and those with comorbidities are being treated at hospitals. Of all the patients, only 14% need hospitalisation and only 5% need oxygen and ventilator support. We are providing medicine, including Remdesivir. We have begun swab collection on buses today. Each bus will have 10- 12 counters and buses will go to all areas,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eatala-flags-off-covid-testing-buses/articleshow/77250479.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Lucknow||Rs 14,400 fee waiver for RMLNLU students||LUCKNOW: In a major relief to over 1,000 students, Dr Ram Manohar Lohia National Law University has waived off ‘utility charges’ from students’ fees for the odd semester in the wake of pandemic. The utility charges of Rs 14,400 include the use of university’s infrastructure like internet, sports and facilities for cultural activities. They have been slashed since the university is closed and classes are being held online. Another reason is that several students had requested for fee concession since their parents are facing salary cuts or have lost jobs in the Covid triggered economic slump. A notification released on RMLNLU website stated that the waiver is valid only till November 30. And if the university opens before or after November 30 then students will have to pay the utility charges. “For all students, including NRIs, a fee waiver of Rs 14,400 has been given for non-utilization of university resource since classes are being held online,” said RMLNLU spokesperson Alka Singh. She said this decision was taken in the recent emergent executive council meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rs-14400-fee-waiver-for-rmlnlu-students/articleshow/77250965.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Lucknow||UP to set up pharma, med equipment units||LUCKNOW: Working towards Atmanirbhar Bharat and to reduce its dependence on China, the Uttar Pradesh government is working towards a new policy to encourage manufacturing of key starting materials for the pharmaceutical and medical equipment industries. Principal secretary (food safety and drug administration) Anita Singh said that currently, India is importing 87% of key starting materials for this industry, 70% of which is from China. “So far, India is not self-reliant in this field. Cheaper material is available in China so many of our industries involved in this field have closed down. The state government is now working on a policy that will encourage setting up of such industries here,” she said. Singh was addressing a webinar organised by the Indo-American Chamber of Commerce on FSDA’s role in combating Covid-19. Drug controller of UP AK Jain said that the government has been taking stringent action against violations and during the lockdown, had registered 12 FIRs against various manufacturers and eight for unauthorised sales. “We recently busted a spurious drug trade in Meerut and will be recommending imposition of NSA against the culprits,” he said. Addressing the webinar on possibility of infections from packaged food, Dr Rakesh Kapoor, medical director of Medanta Lucknow, said that there has not been any indication of feco-oral transmission of the virus so consumption of food was not an issue. “The problem is that the packaging can be compromised if handled by someone who has the virus,” he said. MD of Amul RS Sodhi stressed on the need for recycling of packaging material, especially now when care had to be taken to package food safely, so that pollution could be reduced. Frick India MD Jasmohan Singh added that to encourage packaged food, the government should re-look at its taxation policy as packaged food comes under the ambit of GST. He also advocated a ‘take back’ policy for plastic packaging. Singh also spoke about the need to set standards for street food, saying that in the Covid-era paranoia, street food as we know it may not be around for too long. However, Singh said that it would not be possible for the government to take immediate steps for regulating street food as certifying them would require continuous monitoring which was not possible right now. Chairman of IACC NIC Lucknow chapter Mukesh Singh said that the pandemic had placed unprecedented stress on the food chain, creating many immediate challenges. “The webinar helped us understand the response to guidelines laid down by the UP government and also the challenges which the industry is facing,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-set-up-pharma-med-equipment-units/articleshow/77250939.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Two more private labs can conduct Covid tests in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: Two more private laboratories were authorised to conduct Covid-19 tests —RTPCR capped at Rs 2,000 and antibody charged between Rs 1,000 and Rs 1,350, which does not detect the virus but only determines if there are antibodies after an infection. Private laboratories are coming up with health safety packages for corporates keen to restart offices and know if an employee has developed antibodies against the virus or not. “This is not a test to detect Covid. It is mainly to understand prevalence of the virus in an area. Those who had the infection develop antibodies against the virus which are not necessarily protective,” said a health activist. The first laboratory to start the test was SRL in Sector 11. The other two are Metropolis and Atulya, both again in Sector 11. Metropolis has to start the tests while the rest have drive-through facilities. “The tests need doctors’ prescription and photo ID of the patient. The reports are sent online the next day,” said sales manager of one of the diagnostic centres. Besides, PGI which has been evaluating some Indian-made antigen kits for Covid, has found a Kerala-based firm’s kit to pick up only 5% cases. The same has been disapproved for usage and a report submitted to the ICMR. Presently, another Chinese antigen kit is under evaluation. Moreover, as only one kit has been validated so far by the ICMR for antigen testing, PGI will evaluate it and test which set of patients it works best for. For the Kerala based firm’s kit, PGI had 100 RTPCR positive samples and 100 SARI (symptomatic) patients samples. The results of RTPCR were compared to the reports of the antigen test. “We did 90 positives as the virus pick up rate was 5%. So, we did not go for negative samples and have disapproved it,” said Prof Mini P Singh, department of virology, PGI. The kit manufactured by South Korean firm, SD Biosensor, has sensitivity between 50% and 80%. It is the only point of care antigen testing kit — a test which is outside the laboratory that takes 15 minutes to 30 minutes for reporting — which is approved till date. “We will start evaluation in PGI. The kit has been ordered. We want to know how the antigen test performs in different sets of people and in which set of patients, presurgical or contacts, it works the best. If the OPD has to start, this test is feasible as it will save resources,” said Prof Singh. As per the ICMR guidelines, the antigen test is for diagnosing people with influenza-like illnesses and asymptomatic contacts of patients in Covid-19 containment zones. It is also for symptomatic and asymptomatic people in all healthcare facilities. Also, those who get negative results on the rapid antigen kit must be confirmed using RT-PCR, while those who get positive results needn’t get a retest. “The problem is with false negativity with this kind of testing. But for containment areas and situations where the positivity rate is high, this test is appropriate. When there are many contacts in a household and have to be quarantined, it is also practical to test them with this diagnostics,” said Prof Singh. Presently, only RTPCR is being used in Chandigarh to diagnose Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-more-pvt-labs-can-conduct-covid-tests-in-city/articleshow/77250470.cms||Shimona Kanwar
July 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Kin of Godhra tragedy victims won’t be at Ram Temple shilanyas||AHMEDABAD: Fifty nine persons, including kar sevaks (volunteers), lost their lives in the Sabarmati Express S-6 coach fire tragedy on February 27, 2002, while returning from Ayodhya. They were hailed as martyrs to the cause of the Ram Temple. When that moment finally arrives on August 5, none of the family members of these kar sevaks will be present at Ayodhya to witness the shilanyas (foundation stone laying ceremony) of the temple. While some family members of those who died in the S-6 coach blaze say they prefer not going to Ayodhya to witness the ceremony, others say that the organisers should have acknowledged the sacrifice of their family members and have invited them to the shilanyas. Only those invited by Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra, a trust constituted to oversee the construction and management of the Ram Temple at Ayodhya, will be allowed to participate in the ceremony next week. The Vishwa Hindu Parishad, which has been championing the cause of the victims, says that none of the victims have an invitation for the event, as only important dignitaries are being invited because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “None of the family members of the Godhra train tragedy victims have been invited because of the pandemic and also because of VVIP security arrangements. We have spoken to all families and they will watch the historic moment on television,” said Jagdish Tiwari, joint secretary, VHP, Ahmedabad city. Vilas Jadhav lost his father, Sadashiv Jadhav, in the train fire, said that the organisers should have remembered the families of kar sevaks who sacrificed their lives for the temple. “My father died for the Ram temple cause. We should have been invited,” said Vilas. Sadashiv Jadhav, a retired millworker, was an active VHP worker. Bipin Prajapati, 46, whose father-in-law Mansukh Soni and brother-in-law Jesal Soni died in the train fire, said that he has already lost two family members and nobody from the family is keen to be at the foundation stone laying ceremony of the temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kin-of-godhra-tragedy-victims-wont-be-at-ram-temple-shilanyas/articleshow/77249336.cms||Meghdoot Sharon
July 30, 2020||Chandigarh||8pm-5am: New curfew time from August 1 in Chandigarh?||CHANDIGARH: The UT administration plans to implement curfew from 8pm to 5am instead of ending the night restriction of 10pm to 5am from August 1, as the ministry of home affairs suggested while issuing guidelines for Unlock 3.0 on Wednesday. UT adviser Manoj Parida told TOI they planned not to remove the night curfew. There will be exceptions for eating outlets, hotels and restaurants. They can close operations by 9 pm, he said. Parida said he recently held discussions with trader bodies of various sectors, including of Sector 17, and all agreed to close their shops by 8pm. According to the ministry guidelines, states and UTs based on their assessment of the situation can prohibit certain activities outside the containment zones, or impose such restrictions deemed necessary. The final decision will be taken by UT administrator VP Singh Badnore. Chandigarh Beopar Mandal (CBM) chairman Charanjiv Singh said traders have no objections, but suggested the administration should follow the Centre guidelines related to night curfew. “There will not be much difference as people are already not moving out during night hours as hotels and restaurants are not open and marriage functions not allowed during night hours,” Singh said. On other guidelines of Unlock 3.0, Parida said they will largely follow the guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/8pm-5am-new-curfew-time-from-aug-1/articleshow/77250467.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
July 30, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Masked men vandalize cars in Tollygunge after liquor protest||KOLKATA: Three masked men with gamchhas draped over their face used the cover of the night to smash the windscreens and rear windows of four cars parked on Graham’s Lane near Tollygunge in the early hours of Wednesday. The car owners are all members of Graham’s Lane Welfare & Cultural Society. Police have arrested the three accused whose vandalism was caught on CCTV. Locals alleged the attack was retaliatory in nature, following a complaint filed at Jadavpur PS by locals against two youths from a nearby slum. The damaged cars belong to D Palan, Kakoli Naha and Kaushik Nandy. “We have arrested Biplab Saha, Subodh Ghosh and Subhankar Indu alias Pacha, all residents of nearby areas, for the attack in Graham’s Lane,” said acting DC (south suburban) Biswajit Ghosh. “These young men have been fomenting trouble in the locality for the past year-and-a-half. They would assemble in groups in front of our house, openly drink alcohol and harass people. This would continue till late at night. We have been suffering this all through the lockdown. Even though there is a night curfew at present, they don’t care. We finally decided to report the matter to police after they violated the complete lockdown on Saturday. This is why they chose another lockdown day to hit back,” said the owner of one of the damaged cars. Ashok Ghosh, another local, claimed the youths even switched off the street lights. “After we lodged a written complaint, police had come to check. We handed them evidence in the form of CCTV footage. On Wednesday morning, we found the cars damaged. Initially clueless, we checked the CCTV footage and found that the youths had come here at night and committed the crime,” he said. The footage shows two youths (out of three) moving towards the parked cars well past midnight. One of them hurls bricks into the car’s windscreen, smashing it, before fleeing. “We have drawn up a case in this regard and are investigating all angles,” said an officer. Locals also said the youths posed a health hazard in the neighbourhood by ignoring social distancing norms and moving about without masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/masked-men-vandalize-cars-in-tollygunge-after-liquor-protest/articleshow/77249331.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 30, 2020||Kochi||GST racket suspected behind fake plea in HC||KOCHI: A routine case filed at the high court for releasing goods and vehicle seized for not paying GST took an interesting turn on Wednesday when the ‘petitioner’ told the judge that he has not filed such a plea and that he doesn’t know the advocate appearing for him. State tax authorities have informed the court that it is suspected to be a benami GST racket and that crores of rupees might have been lost in taxes. The petition was filed in the name of Prasanth Nayadi Valappil to release a load of areca nuts seized by tax officials. When the case was heard by Justice AK Jayasankaran Nambiar through videoconferencing on Wednesday, Prasanth joined in and told the court that he did not file a petition. As he said he cannot afford a lawyer, the court has directed for engaging a lawyer through KELSA. Advocates CE Unnikrishnan and Thushara James, who are representing the tax officials, have informed the court that it suspected to be a case of ‘bill trading’ and that rackets exist that obtain benami GST registrations. Financially-backward persons are identified and GST registrations are taken in their names by paying small amounts to them. Utilizing the one-month window granted to pay taxes, several loads of cargo, with each load consisting of over 20 tonnes, is transported across states. When the government later proceeds with revenue recovery as GST has not been paid, they would only find the benami GST registrants, the court was told. Through the case, the officials have only touched the tip of a large bill-trading mafia that is causing huge revenue loss to the state exchequer, tax officials have contended while urging the court not to order for releasing the goods and the vehicle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/gst-racket-suspected-behind-fake-plea-in-hc/articleshow/77247985.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Agra||TOI Impact: Land where upper caste men didn’t allow Nat woman to be cremated now allotted to her community||Agra: Two days after TOI reported about a Nat woman’s body being forced off the funeral pyre by upper caste men in Kakarpura village, 20 km from Agra, local authorities on Wednesday allotted the same land to the Nat community.“A 750-sqm area was carved out of the four bigha gram sabha land for the Nat community to use as cremation grounds,” said Sumit Singh, subdivisional magistrate of Kiraoli. On July 20, the village’s Thakur community had objected to the cremation of 26-year-old Nat woman, Pooja, on “their” land and made the family remove her body from the pyre and cremate her 4km away at a cremation ground “meant for the Dalit community.” On Tuesday, after the TOI report, BSP chief Mayawati had condemned the incident, and demanded an investigation and recompense for the family.While the Nat community had all but given up on “Until yesterday, we were verbally abused and threatened by the Thakur men for merely claiming a space to cremate. Now, after our plight was highlighted by TOI, the administration came to our help,” said Brijpal, Pooja’s 60-year-old father-in-law. “The SDM, lekhpal, pradhan and some police officers visited our village. They heard us out and, after a discussion with the Thakur community, allotted us land for cremation and worship. They also promised to register our residential land in our names. It has been pending for over five decades.”About 30 sqm land in the village used to belong to the Nat community, gram pradhan Suman’s husband Banwari, told TOI. “We have given that back to them, in addition to the land the administration has carved out. Over the next couple of days, the Thakur and Nat communities will hold a gram panchayat meeting to come up with a proposal for residential land registration for the latter. That will be sent to the SDM, who will take it from there.”No FIR, meanwhile, has been filed in the case. “Pooja’s family didn’t lodge a complaint,” the SDM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/toi-impact-land-where-upper-caste-men-didnt-allow-nat-woman-to-be-cremated-now-allotted-to-her-community/articleshow/77247976.cms||Arvind Chauhan
July 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Nizam’s case: Great-grandson claims Rs 121 crore||HYDERABAD: The £35 million (Rs 332 crore) Hyderabad Fund case is likely to see more legal wrangles with a great-grandson of Nizam VII, Mir Osman Ali Khan, mulling “necessary legal proceedings” in the United Kingdom for access to the confidential and secret settlement between the Indian government, Mukarram Jah and Muffakham Jah, grandsons of the last Nizam, and the administrator of the estate of the Nizam. As per the secret agreement, the administrator of the Nizam’s estate had got only £400,000 of the £35 million, while a major portion of the money was shared between the two grandsons and the Indian government. The legal heirs of the last Nizam would get a share in the money allocated to the administrator. Nizam’s great-grandson Himayat Ali Mirza said his share in the English Estate, comprising the funds, is 36%, including the share of his mother Fatima Fouzia and his uncle Shahmat Ali Jah, which is about £12.6 million (Rs 121 crore) of the funds left behind by the Nizam in his English Estate. Himayat Ali Mirza is the son of Fatima Fauzia, daughter of Nizam’s second son Moazzam Jah. He said he would explore legal possibilities to seek access to the confidential and secret settlement “to understand the reason as to why legitimate legal heirs of the Nizam have been deprived so heavily from the funds of the Nizam”. He told TOI that he would also take necessary legal advice for initiation of other ancillary civil and criminal proceedings both in jurisdictions of India and the United Kingdom to ensure disbursement of the funds to legitimate legal heirs only. Mirza said he approached the court on April 24, seeking access to the confidential settlement agreement and relevant documents. After filing of the application notice, the administrator said the confidential settlement and connected documents were part of the records of a separate confidential proceeding. Based on this, Himayat Ali Mirza withdrew his application notice. He said pursuant to the withdrawal, his application notice was dismissed as withdrawn on July 22 before Justice Marcus Smith. “I categorically put it on record that my application notice was not dismissed on merit,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nizams-case-great-grandson-claims-rs-121-crore/articleshow/77250515.cms||Syed Akbar
July 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||NEP 2020 welcomed, with tinge of scepticism in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: With a tinge of scepticism the new National Education Policy, 2020 was largely welcomed by educationists in Gujarat. The policy’s focus on inclusiveness, promoting local languages, innovation and research to meet changing population dynamics and aim to arm children with the skill sets required for a more competitive world received a thumbs-up. Kirit Joshi, former principal of Diwan Ballubhai school, who has more than 25 years of experience, welcomed the decision making the mother tongue the medium of instruction at all schools up to Class V, which has been reintroduced afters several decades. However, Joshi is sceptical on the overall implementation of NEP 2020. “Training teachers in new evaluation methods to meet NEP standards will be vital to the policy’s success. Also, we spend less than 2% of our nation’s GDP on education. The new NEP will require at least 6%.” M N Patel, former vice chancellor of Gujarat University is concerned that several colleges will lose their university affiliation. Though Patel welcomed that most research work would aim to solve societal issues, he said, “Restricted institutional funding and lack of teaching staff in colleges will be major impediments for colleges to climb the new NEP ranking structure. Digital or online learning will lead to unemployment of local teachers,” Patel says. He also pointed out that the existing duration of two years for a postgraduate degree was introduced to allow students time to submit dissertation work. “A one-year postgraduate degree as per the NEP is not enough time for students.” Another educationist, M P Chandran, welcomed the policy, “Multiple regulators will not fall in the path. The emphasis will now be on foundational literacy and numeracy, and no separation between academic streams, extracurricular and vocational streams will help every child to bloom individually. The other highlight of the NEP is that it offers flexibility of subjects in higher education.” “Hasmukh Hingu, former chairman of Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (HSHSEB) said, “The Class X exam will be optional. Students will be evaluated on their learning outcomes. These are sea changes that our education system has to adapt to. A lack of cohesive implementation may lead to paralysis.” His contemporary, Bhaskar Patel, who has 35 years of experience managing schools, said, “The NEP should throw some light on small schools who have less than 500 children. More emphasis will be on employing teachers who are well versed in local dialects and culture.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nep-2020-welcomed-with-tinge-of-scepticism/articleshow/77249657.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Surat||DGCA postpones process as residents insist in-person hearing||Surat: The decision on the buildings obstructing the flight path near the Surat airport is set to be delayed as many stakeholders of the residential buildings in question are demanding that they be heard in person by the authorities of Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) before submitting the final report in the Gujarat high court. Following the directions of the HC, the DGCA had served fresh notices to the residents of 198 buildings on June 19, fixing the hearing dates through video conferencing between July 7 and 10. The final hearing in the HC was scheduled on July 27. Most of the stakeholders could not attend the online hearing due to the Covid-19 situation in the city and that they demanded that they should be heard in person before submitting the final report in the HC. Vipul Shah, one of the affected residents told TOI, “Few residents objected to the online hearing and demanded that they should be heard in person by the DGCA authorities, once the Covid-19 the situation is brought under control. The DGCA authorities put forth the demand of the residents before the HC which adjourned the hearing to September 24.” Earlier, the DGCA had fixed the personal hearing over the issue on March 19, but due to the lockdown, the hearing was adjourned. The fate of the 615-metre portion at runway-22 (Vesu side) at the Surat airport hangs in balance. Earlier, the DGCA had displaced 615 metres of the runway portion at Vesu side because of safety concerns over the building height obstruction. At present, the total length of the runway at Surat airport is 2,905 metres. But only 2,290 metres is used because of the building height obstruction issue. Sources said that the original plan was to extend the runway to 3,810 metres. But, the expansion is possible for only 260 metres due to the presence of the high-rise building in Dumas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dgca-postpones-process-as-residents-insist-in-person-hearing/articleshow/77248009.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Guntur agriculture market yard unscathed by lockdown||GUNTUR: The Guntur agriculture market yard has earned Rs 26 crore in revenue between January to July, against Rs 30 crore in the corresponding period last year. The revenue is, however, likely to go up in the next few weeks as cold storages still have unsold goods. The market yard was closed for nearly two and half months in the last seven months due to Covid-19. It remained closed even after making an attempt to resume operations after a few workers and merchants tested positive. The market yard could not handle its usual volume of business due to apprehension among merchants and workers since March. The market committee is empowered to collect one per cent cess on total sale value of produce either within the yard or at cold storages. “We could make decent revenue in the first three months of the season by which time Covid-19 had not spread across the state. However, the transactions took a severe hit since the last week of March, which is the peak sale season,” said agriculture market committee chairman Chandragiri Yesurathnam. He said chilli prices were going up from the beginning of the season that helped them compensate for the losses induced by the lockdown. The chilli, which usually commands around Rs 6,500 per quintal, fetched anywhere around Rs 8,000-Rs 10,000 per quintal during the current sale season. At one point, the prices surged to nearly Rs 15,000 per quintal. Despite poor exports to China due to the Covid-19 outbreak, massive stocks were exported to Bangladesh, Singapore and Sri Lanka soon after the lockdown was lifted in those nations. “The market committee could have easily earned double the revenue of the last year had there been no Covid-19 scare across the globe as there is a huge demand for local chilli varieties due to crop failure in many states,” said chilli exporter Lanka Kranthi Sekhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/guntur-agri-market-yard-unscathed-by-lockdown/articleshow/77247967.cms||Samdani MN
July 30, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Defence nod makes journey of Joka Metro project easier||KOLKATA: The construction of Metro station at Mominpur and tunnelling below Maidan — both plots belonging to defence — would now be easier with the ministry of defence (MOD) easing the defence land lease process for important public projects like Metro. The Joka-Esplanade Metro project hit a brickwall as some stretches, both elevated and underground, ran through defence land. Recently, defence secretary Ajay Kumar wrote in a tweet how this decision would give relief to Metro projects. Now, there is no lease rent for tunnelling under defence land.  “It is a major boost for many Metro projects across the country, especially the Joka-Esplanade Metro project, as a significant part of the underground stretch requires green signal from the MOD,” said an officer of RVNL, the executing body of major Metro corridors in city. Significantly, for tunneling work in Maidan, the railways does not need to pay lease rent to the defence establishment because the overground ownership of the land does not change. Recognizing this advantage, Ajay Kumar said, “The new guideline is providing relief to metro projects, now no lease rent for tunneling of metro projects under defence land.” Apart from the Mominpur Metro station in the Command Hospital ground, the tunnels are allowed near Turf View, the residential complex of defence personnel on Orphangunge Road, Alipore and Maidan. In fact, the tunnel boring machine is supposed to be lowered at Victoria Memorial station site in Maidan only. Significantly, after a wait of seven years, railway board in 2018 gave go-ahead for the construction of the corridor from Mominpore to Esplanade of Joka-Esplanade Metro. Earlier, the elevated Metro alignment was to run along Kidderpore Road. The MOD raised objections regarding the alignment overlooking the Eastern Command headquarters at Fort William. The construction cost of the elevated stretch was estimated at Rs 139 crore. After making it underground, the sanction was revised to Rs 3,000 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/defence-nod-makes-journey-of-joka-metro-project-easier/articleshow/77249361.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
July 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Disease gets deadlier, claims 25 lives in Pb||Chandigarh: The Covid-19 death toll continued to mount in Punjab on Wednesday as 25 people infected with it breathed their last — the highest number of fatalities due to the virus in a day. There were 568 fresh cases too, with which the overall tally rose to 14,946. With 15 patients on ventilator support and another 113 on oxygen support in the state, the toll could rise further. There were 10 deaths in Jalandhar, nine in Ludhiana, three in Amritsar, two in Gurdaspur, and one in Patiala. As many as 16 police personnel were among those who tested positive in the last 24 hours. Also, 461 patients were discharged after they recovered, taking the overall tally of patients discharged to 10,213. For the third day in running, Ludhiana contributed the highest number of cases, 95. Of them, 19 were contacts of positive cases and 25 patients were found to be co-infected with influenza-like illness (ILI). Patiala reported 86 cases, followed by 77 in Amritsar, 45 in Jalandhar, 35 each in Gurdaspur and Barnala, 31 each in Mohali and Fatehgarh Sahib, 30 in Sangrur, 21 in Tarn Taran, 15 in Pathankot, 13 in Moga, 11 in Ropar, nine each in Fazilka and Faridkot, seven each in Kapurthala and Muktsar, five in Nawanshahr, four in Ferozpur, and one each in Bathinda and Hoshiarpur. In Amritsar, an official release issued by the district administration informed, there were 49 influenza-like infection (ILI) cases of Covid and 26 were contacts of Covid patients, including four policemen and three troopers of the Border Security Force (BSF). Two of deceased include a 79-year-old man and a 75-year-old woman. (Inputs from Amritsar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/disease-gets-deadlier-claims-25-lives-in-pb/articleshow/77250544.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Agra||13 teachers suspended, salaries of nine shiksha mitras withheld for taking offs without prior notice||Agra: Over a dozen primary schoolteachers were suspended and salaries of nine contractual teachers (shiksha mitras) withheld by the Agra basic education department for “taking offs without prior notice”. According to a state government directive, all teachers are required to be present in the schools to complete non-teaching works. Agra district basic shiksha adhikari (BSA) Rajeev Yadav had conducted surprise inspections at half a dozen primary schools in Fatehabad and Fatehpur Sikri blocks and found 13 teachers and nine shiksha mitras absent, their principals could not provide valid reasons for their absence. “At present, development works are taking place in different schools, but teachers are required to look after data-feeding work related to different schemes. The government has ordered that all schools should remain open. Thirteen teachers were suspended and salaries of nine shiksha mitras withheld for being absent without prior notice. We have sought clarification from them,” said the BSA. The suspended teachers have been directed to report to their base schools. They are required to send their selfies on the department’s WhatsApp group before 8am after coming to school and before leaving school in the afternoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/13-teachers-suspended-salaries-of-nine-shiksha-mitras-withheld-for-taking-offs-without-prior-notice/articleshow/77248012.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Lucknow||Form panels to take management decisions in districts: Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday issued directives for the formation of three-member committees in districts to help local administration take decisions on Covid-19 management. The committee, comprising the district magistrate, chief medical officer and chief development officer of the district concerned, will be financially empowered to plug any gaps in Covid management scheme in their respective areas. The government has allocated Rs 5 crore to each district Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said the team would have powers to take decisions affecting local management and would be authorised to take financial decisions on issues like purchase of ambulances, hiring of lab technicians etc. Chief secretary RK Tiwari, who visited Jhansi recently to review Covid management, identified shortage of lab technicians as major reason for low testing in the district. Awasthi said the recent visits of senior bureaucrats to various districts yielded positive results and the CM said more teams would be sent to various parts of the state from Friday onwards. As of now, three groups of districts have been identified – Gautam Budh Nagar-Bulandshahr, Meerut-Muzaffarnagar and Shamli-Saharanpur. The teams will be required to review the condition of beds and hospitals, availability of medicines, home quarantine patients, and door-to-door survey. Two bureaucrats each will be dispatched to districts. So far, chief secretary RK Tiwari and ACS (health) Amit Mohan Prasad have visited four districts while IIDC Alok Tandon and ACS (health) have visited Bareilly and Moradabad. ACS (medical education) Rajneesh Dube and ACS (rural development and panchayati raj) Manoj Kumar Singh have visited Agra and Aligarh. The number of Covid hotspots in the state has touched 7,394 on Wednesday. Among 12.1 lakh homes covered under these hotspots, there are 25,000 Covid-19 positive patients. “The increase in hotspots is due to the massive door-to-door surveys being undertaken in the state through which several people are being advised tests,” a senior official said. Awasthi said in Lucknow itself, 13.5 lakh houses had been covered under the survey. “If a suspected Covid-19 case is found, rapid antigen testing is carried out. If found positive, the patient is advised medical attention,” he said. UP has carried out over 21.2 lakh tests so far and is placed second in the country only after Tamil Nadu. Awasthi said more RTPCR labs would be set up in the state in August and efforts were on to purchase more antigen kits which could be used for quicker results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-form-panels-to-take-mgmt-decisions-in-dists/articleshow/77250911.cms||Neha Lalchandani
July 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Stakeholders seek exemptions to revive tourism sector||The government must declare 2021 as the year of AP tourism and work with all stakeholders to revive the hospitality and tourism sector that has been adversely impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic, K Vijay Mohan, president of Tours & Travels Association of AP, said on Wednesday. “We request that travel and tourism be declared as an industry because a lot of other states like Maharashtra, Kerala, Assam have done it and this will provide stimulus to the sector,” he said at the session on ‘Tourism & Hospitality: Checking in business in inhospitable times’, as part of TOI’s Reboot AP conclave, which is supported by RINL in association with Visakhapatnam Special Economic Zone, Eastern Power Distribution Company of Andhra Pradesh, Coastal Local Area Bank and TNR Talent High School. Mohan also urged the central government to look at providing income tax exemption for those spending on domestic travel. He also suggested that the state government withdraw the cap of 50 people on banquet hall gatherings and fix the new cap on the basis of the size of the halls where events are organised. Industry representatives also requested the state government to consider their demands of reducing or waiving fixed costs such as power tariffs, deferring taxes, providing part-salary support, waiving off various licence fees and rentals for a period of at least six months to aid the industry to recover from the Covid-19 blow. Pravin Kumar, MD, AP Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) & CEO of AP Tourism Authority (APTA), said the government is aware of the challenges being faced by the industry and will be working with all the stakeholders to ease the pain. Pointing out that APTDC too is losing Rs 12-13 crore in revenues every month, he urged the industry to strictly follow all the safety guidelines to instil confidence among tourists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/stakeholders-seek-exemptions-to-revive-tourism-sector/articleshow/77247998.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Kolkata||NGOs worry over rise in trafficking||KOLKATA: Hours before heralding in the United Nations World Day against Trafficking in Persons, NGOs working in Bengal have expressed fear that trafficking — especially of children and young women — for both labour and the sex industry might see a jump following the Covid pandemic and Cyclone Amphan. In Kolkata, NGOs, like International Justice Mission, Shakti Vahini and Save The Children, said trafficking in the post-lockdown period will spike as household incomes of the vulnerable deplete. The NGOs in Bengal though said that several steps taken by the Bengal government, the West Bengal Commission for Protection Of Child Rights and the state police are a beginning to fight the challenge. The BSF, which has sounded an alert across the Bengal border and rescued more than five trafficked children, has been praised. “An international gang of traffickers was busted in Murshidabad and reports of children missing have been traced to other states. These are signs that a coordinated response can stop these cases,” said a former WBCPCR member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ngos-worry-over-rise-in-trafficking/articleshow/77249403.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 30, 2020||Nagpur||CATS to help big cats thrive across India; to be role model for world||Nagpur: Buoyed by the increasing tiger numbers in the country, the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) has decided to adopt Conservation Assured Tiger Standards (CATS) across all 50 tiger reserves in the country. These 50 tiger reserves are spread across 18 states covering an area over 72,000sqkm and contain over 70% of the world’s tiger population. CATS is a conservation tool that specifies best practices and standards to manage target species and encourages assessments to benchmark progress. Tigers are the first species selected for the initiative. Launched in 2013, the tool was developed in collaboration with field managers, tiger experts and government agencies engaged in tiger conservation. SP Yadav, member-secretary, NTCA, said, “On Global Tiger Day, the country has decided to extend CATS across all its tiger reserves for further strengthening and improving management interventions.” The announcement means India is the first among 13 tiger range countries to nationally adopt CATS, which are a set of minimum standards setting benchmark for managing conservation sites. “This brings India’s total number of registered sites to 94, which includes sites outside the tiger reserves,” said Yadav. In 2017, high-profile Bramhapuri and Central Chanda divisions in Chandrapur district were identified for implementation of CATS. Yadav, who was additional secretary general of Global Tiger Forum (GTF) then, had held a sensitization workshop on CATS in Chandrapur on March 7, 2017. Central Chanda deputy conservator (DyCF) Gajendra Hire said, “We had applied for CATS certification but somehow things did not come through.” However, Yadav said, “This announcement further strengthens India’s contribution to the global goal set in 2010 to double the number of tigers in the wild, known as TX2. India reported a population of 2,967 wild tigers during the last population estimation in 2018.” Sejal Worah, chair of the Tigers Advisory Group at WWF International & Programme Director at WWF India, said, “As a partner in the implementation of CATS as well as in tiger conservation, WWF India welcomes the announcement by NTCA on extension of CATS to all 50 Tiger Reserves in India. This further establishes India’s commitment towards conservation of wild tigers.” Stuart Chapman, lead of WWF’s Tigers Alive Initiative, said, “India’s adoption of CATS across its tiger reserves has brought the majority of the world’s wild tigers under one conservation management standard. This will strengthen efforts for tiger conservation in India and provide a model for other tiger range countries to follow.” Sugoto Roy, chair of CATS International executive committee, said, “CATS is an excellent diagnostic tool designed to help site-based tiger management and conservation to be effective and assist in identifying gaps, challenges and resources needed to catalyze the recovery of tigers.” Rajesh Gopal, secretary general of GTF, said, “The countries that have still not adopted the CATS framework must be encouraged to do so, as this will assist in establishing a uniform and robust framework for the global tiger recovery programme.” The other six tiger range countries implementing CATS include Bangladesh, Bhutan, China, India, Malaysia, Nepal and Russia. What Is CATS? CATS is a partnership of tiger range governments, inter-governmental agencies, institutions, NGOs and conservation organisations. WWF is helping tiger range countries to implement CATS and is joined by other key global organisations, such as Equilibrium Research, Fauna & Flora International, Freeland, Global Tiger Forum, Global Wildlife Conservation, IUCN, Panthera, Smithsonian Institution, UNDP, WildTeam, World Commission on Protected Areas and the Zoological Society of London. CATS is being adopted for use beyond tigers, including potentially jaguars, lions and freshwater dolphins.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cats-to-help-big-cats-thrive-across-india-to-be-role-model-for-world/articleshow/77250543.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 30, 2020||Mangaluru||Youth arrested for threatening to kill DC||Mangaluru: The Mangaluru city police arrested a youth for threatening to kill deputy commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh on social media. The arrested accused is Ranjith,20, a resident of Mijar, and a welder by profession. He is booked under Indian Penal Code sections 505, 506,507 and 189. Sources from the police department, who are probing the incident, said that Ranjith was added to a WhatsApp group Ram Sena Abhimani. When people were criticizing the deputy commissioner on her diktat about cattle smuggling, on the group, Ranjith threatened to take her life. “The accused is unaware about who is a deputy commissioner and their role,” said a source. A case has been registered at the Moodbidri police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/youth-arrested-for-threatening-to-kill-dc/articleshow/77247981.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Two held with Rs 2 lakh in counterfeit notes in Thaltej||AHMEDABAD: Crime branch sleuths on Tuesday detained two residents of Uday Prajapati and Meet Prajapati, both 22, with fake Indian currency notes (FICN) with a face value of Rs 2 lakh. Crime branch sources said both are originally from Santalpur taluka of Patan district. Assistant commissioner of police B V Gohil said 436 FICN pieces were found on them. “The fakes were in Rs 500 and Rs 200 denominations. We also seized A4-size paper, a cutter, a scale, a color printer and a bag. They were planning to print fake Rs 2,000 notes as well,” he added. Crime branch sources said they also found eight beer bottles in their house during the search. “A separate case for prohibition violation has also been filed against them,” added a crime branch source. Gohil added that both the accused were detained based on an input that two persons with FICN were to pass the water tank in Thaltej on a motorcycle. Crime branch sources said that during their interrogation they said they badly needed money and decided to print fake notes using a colour printer. “They had offloaded fake Rs 200 notes in the market before the lockdown,” said a crime branch official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-held-with-rs-2-lakh-in-counterfeit-notes-in-thaltej/articleshow/77249408.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Pune||RPF constable shows way fortnight after discharge||PUNE: Twenty-nine-year-old Sumit Kumar, a constable with the Railway Protection Force (RPF) in Kolhapur, donated plasma on Monday, a fortnight after recovering from Covid-19. A day before he was set to join duty on July 28, he was approached by senior officers with a request to donate plasma. “I immediately agreed. If my plasma can save many lives, why should I not donate it? Every Covid patient who has recovered must come forward and donate plasma,” he said. TimesViewTreatment protocols involving blood plasma can only work if there are enough donors. Recovered patients must sign up to donate plasma and hospitals should ensure they have set monitoring standards. Maharashtra's plasma therapy trial, the world's largest, will succeed only if there are enough donors.Kumar said that people who have tested positive for Covid-19 and those recovered should be treated with respect rather than being ostracised. “I hail from Basera village in Muzaffarnagar district of Uttar Pradesh and family lives there. When I was infected by Coronavirus, I decided not to inform my family as they would be worried. After I started feeling unwell in the first week of July, I took the Covid test and received confirmation on July 7. I was admitted at the Solapur Railway Hospital on July 7 and discharged on July 16 after which I was sent on home quarantine for 10 days,” Kumar said. On July 27, Kumar, along with Rakesh Kumar, another constable with the RPF, donated plasma at the civil hospital in Solapur. “My colleagues used to call and talk to me during my treatment. Not even for once did I feel that I was being ignored by anyone. I think that if all have the same positive attitude towards Covid patients, those with symptoms will not try to hide them and risk their condition turning fatal,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rpf-constable-shows-way-fortnight-after-discharge/articleshow/77250500.cms||Joy Sengupta
July 30, 2020||Pune||Recovered businessman bats for cause||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Vikas Bhise, a 48-year-old businessman from Pimpri Chinchwad, has taken up the task of encouraging people to donate plasma after recovering from Covid-19. After testing positive last month, Bhise was hospitalised and later discharged to be home quarantined. After learning about the life saving effects of plasma therapy, he contacted the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital (YCMH) and donated plasma last week. He said that when he called YCMH, they needed plasma for two patients. Now, he is appealing others who have recovered from Covid-19 to come forward and donate plasma. “After I donated plasma, my cousin, who also tested positive and recovered, now wants to donate plasma. He will complete his 28-day post-recovery period next week after which he can donate plasma,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/recovered-businessman-bats-for-cause/articleshow/77250523.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Vadodara||21 days on, no trace of six accused policemen||Vadodara: More than three weeks have elapsed since they vanished, but police are still clueless about the cops accused of custodial death in the city. The disappearance has caused a major embarrassment for the investigators who are still trying to find the body of Sheikh Nishar Babu. “Our teams are camping in Saurashtra and trying to trace the accused. We haven’t got any clue about them yet,” said Anupam Singh Gahlaut, city police commissioner. One of the prime accused, police inspector Dharmendrasinh Gohil’s home is in Palitana, PSI Dashrath Rabari is a resident of Kheda, LRD Yogendrasinh Jilansinh has his home in Sabarkantha, Rajesh Savjibhai is from Morbi, Pankaj Mavji belongs to Amreli and Hitesh Shambhu is from Bhavnagar. All the six cops had disappeared in the first week of July after a complaint of culpable homicide not amounting to murder was registered against them. The Gujarat high court later asked the city police to register a complaint of murder against all the six who are accused of causing death of Sheikh. Sheikh was picked up by the Fatehgunj police in December last year on suspicion of theft. His son later filed a police complaint after Sheikh went missing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/21-days-on-no-trace-of-six-accused-policemen/articleshow/77247484.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana registers 12 deaths, 1,700 Covid-19 cases||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Wednesday recorded 12 deaths and 1,764 new cases of Covid-19, but authorities said they were worried about the spread of virus to the districts. The overall coronavirus caseload in the state stands at 58,906 and the total death toll has gone up to 492. Authorities said the fast spread of the virus beyond the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits have resulted in a jump in the number of containment zones in the districts from barely 300, a month ago, to 1,100 currently. “The number of cases in districts has seen a sharp rise over the last one month and there are several pockets where the spread is uncontrolled. With the increase in these pockets, the number of containment zones have naturally gone up,” said an official from the state health department. “This even as the number of containment zones in the GHMC limits is going down. Currently, there are less than 100 containment zones in the city,” he added. All the districts in the state recorded new cases on Thursday, with Wanaparthy recording the lowest at 4 cases and the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) recording the highest at 509 cases. This was followed by Mechal Malkajgiri with 158 cases, Rangareddy with 147 cases, Warangal Urban with 138 cases, Sangareddy with 89 cases and Karimnagar with 93 cases. The latest districts to see a surge in cases are Nirmal, Wanaparthy, Narayanpet and Jangaon, while all other districts reported between 10-80 cases. The number of active cases in the state is also on the rise with increasing numbers. Currently there are 14,663 active cases in the state, as compared to 11,052 active cases a week back (July 23). On Thursday, the government hospital at Suryapet had only one bed available while the one at Nagarkurnool had just eight beds available. The state had tested 18,858 suspects, the highest-single day samples taken for analysis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-registers-12-deaths-1700-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77250561.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Kochi||‘NEP will prove to be a death knell for public education’||KOCHI: Kerala’s education policy that emphasizes on equity, access and excellence will now be challenged. State has always been averse to privatization of education but now educationists believe that the New Education Policy (NEP) passed by the Union Cabinet on Wednesday will lead to commercialization of education, making it expensive and elitist. Educationists said that with NEP 2020 even the state will see an increase in private institutions and autonomous institutions, with the state having little control over its functioning. “Education is soon set to turn into a business that will be expensive and for the elite. Though the Cabinet approved the policy officially on Wednesday, the central government as part of its development agenda had already started implementing it in universities and colleges here,” said Kerala state higher education council vice-chairman Rajan Gurukkal. Educationists believe that with this, the public education system will take a hit in terms of funding and opportunities. “It would also prove a death knell for public education, which developed in democratic and secular tradition,” said minister for general education C Raveendranath. However, there are few positive steps like increasing gross enrolment ratio (GER) to 50% by 2035, discontinuation of MPhil courses, expansion in the credit system, whereby the students can join or leave in the middle of the course, as well as promotion of multidisciplinary institution that educationists here have welcomed. But they also fear that with this, the academic and administrative autonomy of state universities will reduce. “The NEP reflects the Sangh-Parivar agenda. None of the universities in Kerala can match the criteria mentioned under the research university level mentioned in the policy. Abolition of election to syndicate and the decision to follow nomination method is dangerous,” said P K Raveendran, educationist and governing council chairman, Maharaja’s College, Ernakulam—the first government college in the state to get autonomous status. Minister for higher education KT Jaleel believes that the NEP will sabotage social justice. “The plan to completely shift from affiliation to autonomous system in 15 years will affect the institutions in rural and backward regions and destroy the motto of ‘Unity in Diversity’ as mentioned in the Constitution,” said Jaleel. Incidentally, the previous UDF government had pushed for some of the policies — setting up of teachers’ training academy, use of technology for teaching, autonomy for institutions, infrastructure, and research and internationalization of education — but the present LDF government was reluctant to accept it. “Kerala should take advantage of all facets and completely recast its sector creatively, especially the competitive internationalization aspect,” added B Ashok IAS, former vice-chancellor of Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nep-will-prove-to-be-a-death-knell-for-public-education/articleshow/77248057.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Maoists extorting money from tribal hamlets: Intel||HYDERABAD: The Maoists have been extorting money from the tribal areas of Telangana in an effort to revive their presence, the state intelligence officials have revealed. The villagers in naxal affected Bhadradri-Kothagudem district have been given targets that they need to meet whenever the Maoists come for a collection. The Maoists have been entering Telangana from the bordering Chhattisgarh and are trying to revive the culture of extortion. “The locals in tribal areas are made to pay Rs 10 for every member of the family. “If there are, say, five persons in a family, people have to shell out Rs 50 in addition to a kg of rice. An autorickshaw owner is made to pay Rs 1,000. a kirana store owner Rs 1,000 and any farmer who owns a tractor has to pay Rs 5,000,” sources in the intelligence department told TOI. Senior officials in the state police department have said that the extortion takes place only occasionally in Kothagudem and no such activity has been observed in Adilabad or other naxal affected districts. Apart from extorting the tribals, Maoists also have been collecting lakhs of rupees from local contractors and businessman, who are into infrastructure projects or running industries in Kothagudem district. The police have already cautioned the businessmen, functioning in the affected districts to not pay any money to Maoists. Though the police has in past burst the extortions attempts, sources said that one cannot rule out the possibility of some businessmen clandestinely paying money to Maoists due to threats. In the last couple of months, the Telangana Maoists state committee members and their cadre, have been moving in small groups in tribal areas and visiting tribal hamlets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/maoists-extorting-money-from-tribal-hamlets-intel/articleshow/77249428.cms||Srinath Vudali
July 30, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: 7-day lockdown in Machilipatnam, cases dip in Krishna district||VIJAYAWADA: The Krishna district administration has imposed a complete lockdown in Machilipatnam from August 3 to 9. Transport minister Perni Venkataramiah (Perni Nani) who reviewed the situation with local authorities on Wednesday directed them to take stringent action against people who ignore lockdown rules. The special task force committee appointed to assess the situation in Machilipatnam said, around 45 persons tested positive in the last five days. Following a report submitted by it, the district administration passed orders imposing the lockdown. During the lockdown, people are allowed to purchase essential commodities between 6 am to 9 am. Perni Nani, meanwhile, requested the muslim community to celebrate Id-ul-Adha at their homes and avoid mass gatherings at mosques. On the brighter side, containment measures, including making face mask mandatory, seem to been bearing fruits for the Krishna district administration. While, East Godavari, West Godavari, Kurnool and other districts have been reporting up to 1,000 cases per day on an average, Krishna district has reported only 2,139 Covid-19 cases in the last seven days. The district, which initially registered a large number of cases during Unlock 1.0, shifted its focus to educating the public. Huge campaigns were taken up to explaining the importance of wearing masks to minimise the spread of Covid-19. Vijayawada city police and Vijaywada Municipal Corporation (VMC) conducted special drives and imposed fines on people found without masks. Moreover, officials distributed masks among hawkers and daily labourers. “Physical distancing and wearing masks are key factors, which helped us control the number of Covid-19 cases. We realised the importance of the compulsory mask rule. Now it has become almost a habit for every individual. Besides, we are conducting around 3,500 tests per day in Vijaywada and the positive rate is very low,” said VMC commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh. Meanwhile, Krishna district registered 259 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday taking the total to 6,259 cases and four deaths. Endowments minister Vellampalli Srinivas conducted a review meet with district authorities on the Covid-19 situation and directed health wing authorities to seal private hospitals, which deny treatment to Covid-19 patients under YSR Aarogyasri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/7-day-lockdown-in-mpatnam-cases-dip-in-krishna-district/articleshow/77248039.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Nagpur||CRly gets loco that can pull 116 loaded wagons||Nagpur: The Nagpur division of Central Railway was privileged to receive one of the 12,000 HP engines (WAG-12) being manufactured at Madhepura in Bihar. The engines will be maintained at Ajni where a facility is being set up. TOI on October 9, 2015 was first to report about the project. The Rs100 crore facility is coming up in 10-12 acre railway land at Ajni. The new engine has double load carrying capacity compared to WAG-9, the 6,000 HP engines used now. These engines can transport up to 5,500 tonne material consisting of 58 wagons. However, 12,000 HP engines will be able to ferry 10,000 tonne goods with double the number of wagons what are being used at present. The first WAG-12 was received at Amla from where it pulled a freight train till Nagpur. The engine was received by DRM Somesh Kumar and senior divisional electrical engineer (TRO) Mahesh Kumar. “Till now, over 70 loco pilots (LPs) and assistant loco pilots (ALPs) underwent training in Amla and Nagpur and another 40 will be trained in Ballarshah on Thursday. The loco will later be dispatched to Bhusawal for training purposes,” said Kumar. Till now the Electric Locomotive Factory, Madhepura, a joint venture of Indian Railways & Alstom SA of France, has produced at least 20 such engines, but these were operating in other railway zones. Under the ‘Make in India’ concept, the factory will manufacture 800 high-power locomotives over a period of 11 years designed to run on Indian tracks at 120km per hour. The manufacturing has started on October 11, 2017. “At Ajni, maintenance of these locos will start from 291st engine produced. By that time we will have a facility in place. The facility will be ready by February 2022,” said Kumar. “The project will boost industrial growth in the region. The advantage of this engine is that it will easily pull loaded freight trains and we will not have to deploy bunkers to drag trains where there are gradients and in ghat sections,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/crly-gets-loco-that-can-pull-116-loaded-wagons/articleshow/77250570.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 30, 2020||Agra||Agra University declares 812 BEd degree holders fake||Agra: The executive council of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar University declared 812 BEd degree holders of session 2004-2005 as fake following its meeting on Wednesday. Names and details of these candidates were mentioned in the list compiled by the Allahabad High Court - monitored by special investigation team (SIT) probing the BEd scam at Agra University. In 2019, the SIT had compiled a list of 3,637 BEd candidates of the session 2004-05 who had managed to get a degree by fraudulent means. Out of these, 2,823 candidates were declared fake by Agra university administration. In May, the Allahabad HC had directed the Agra university administration to take a clear decision regarding the remaining 814 candidates within three months. On Wednesday, the executive committee, on the basis of the internal investigation, declared 812 candidates fake. Two candidates were not able to qualify the exam in session 2003-04 and they had allegedly appeared as ex-students in session 2004-05. Agra university’s public relations officer Pradeep Shridhar said, “A committee was constituted to investigate the authenticity of the documents submitted by BEd candidates of the session 2004-05. Candidates who were identified to have secured a degree using fraudulent means were asked to provide clarification. On the basis of the report submitted by the probe committee, 812 candidates have been declared fake and their details will be forwarded to the high court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-university-declares-812-bed-degree-holders-fake/articleshow/77248042.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Pune||Over 1,200 general practitioners in Pune reopen their clinics to help fight outbreak||PUNE: Nearly 25% of 5,000 general practitioners in the city have started treating suspect Covid-19 cases and those with influenza-like illness, just over 10 days after they were empowered to do so by the administration. Vikram Kumar, PMC chief, has confirmed that the civic body would bear treatment costs if a GP or family physician contracts Covid-19 during service. The doctors have also been assured an insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh. “Over 1,200 GPs have begun prescribing Covid tests and are monitoring confirmed mild cases who are isolating at home,” Rupa Agarwal, president of the General Practitioners Association, told TOI on Wednesday. Earlier, patients with Covid-linked symptoms — intermittent fever, dry cough, sore throat, loss of taste and smell — were being treated at designated government/private hospitals, dedicated flu units and community fever OPDs in the city. Members of the GPA said they were expecting another 25% of GPs to start seeing patients within a week. “We arranged online training after some GPs requested it before reopening their clinics. The PMC commissioner's assurances have raised morale,” Agarwal said. Doctors above 50 years of age and those with underlying medical conditions have been excused from treating suspect cases. Bhagyashree Munot, who runs a clinic in the densely populated Mandai area, said she has been seeing a steady stream of patients coming in with flu-like symptoms. “Thirty of nearly 70 patients I examined in the last one week have tested positive for the virus. I’m monitoring their care as they isolate at home. They have mild symptoms,” Munot said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-1200-gps-reopen-their-clinics-to-help-fight-outbreak/articleshow/77250564.cms||Umesh Isalkar
July 30, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Soon, Hussainganj to Aryanagar in just 10 minutes||LUCKNOW: Traffic movement in areas around Charbagh railway station is set to improve with construction work on a three-lane flyover connecting Hussainganj to DAV College (Aryanagar) is expected to be completed by August first week. UPSBC chief project manager Sandeep Gupta told TOI that the total cost of construction is Rs 124 crore and the flyover will be completed by the first week of August. Earlier, the deadline was May, but the work got delayed due to lockdown. Constructed by Uttar Pradesh State Bridge Corporation, the flyover is 1.5km long and will provide much-needed relief to people residing in Hussainganj, Lalkuan, Naka Hindola, Rajendranagar, Moti Nagar, Aishbagh, and Charbagh, among others. UPSBC is constructing three more flyovers in different places in the city. “Since we got permission from district administration in June to start our construction work, our workers are doing triple shifts to complete work of these flyovers as soon as possible, “ said Gupta. The 90% work of the 908-metre flyover from Meena Bakery to Haiderganj Chauraha is complete and is expected to be ready by December.  The work of the 2.5km-long two-lane flyover from Charak Chauraha to Vikram Patni Road would be completed by January 2021. The two flyovers will help in decongesting a major part of the Old city. The work of another 850-metre flyover from Shaheed Path to Amausi Airport is expected to be finished by March 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/soon-hussainganj-to-aryanagar-in-just-10-minutes/articleshow/77250980.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Jaipur||By August, we expect good clinical data on Covid-19 vaccine: Bharat Biotech||JAIPUR: With positive cases hitting record highs on regular frequency, all eyes are now on how fast the vaccine is developed. India has already developed two vaccine candidates — one by Bharat Biotech and another by Zydus Cadila. Both the organisations have developed the vaccines which are currently under clinical trial phases. Speaking at a CII-Rajasthan webinar, Suchitra Ella, joint managing director, Bharat Biotech, said, “Human clinical trial has begun in India and has shown tremendous footstep moving ahead. Most of the vaccines come from the Western world. But I am happy to share that the two vaccine candidates from India are actually in the lead with the rest of the world.” She said the results of the pre-clinical trials that the company has carried out were quite promising and exhibited substantial safety and effective immune responses. “We have been given approval to go for phase-I and phase–II clinical trials. We have already started clinical testing at almost 10-12 centres (medical institutions and hospitals) in country to fast-track the process. Very confidently, I can say our vaccine is right now in phase-I. More than half of the 375 volunteers selected for the trials have already been covered and by August we expect to have very good clinical data,” she said. Kiran Mazumdar Shaw, founder of Biocon, who also addressed the webinar, said, “The IT infrastructure created by Rajasthan government is phenomenal. The digital backbone of Rajasthan government has been instrumental in fighting against this pandemic. Strong digital infrastructure can generate new ideas. Huge digital storage of data opens up scope for analysis of diseases for gaining insights. The Bhamashah scheme covering 67% of population with cashless medical benefits is a true example of the success in reaching out to masses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/by-aug-we-expect-good-clinical-data-on-covid-19-vaccine-bharat-biotech/articleshow/77250565.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Chandigarh||‘High testing, proximity of NCR districts to Delhi behind spike in Haryana cases’||Haryana additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) Rajeev Arora has claimed that close proximity of state’s several districts with New Delhi and high testing rate are the main reasons behind spike in Covid-19 cases in the state. He has also said that initially late arrival of Covid-19 patients to hospitals was the main reason behind the sudden rise in deaths in the state. Despite its small size, the number of Covid-19 positive cases has crossed 32,000 in Haryana. What are the factors behind the spike?The main reason for the higher number of positive cases is that Haryana is conducting the highest testing per million as compared to many other states. Besides, many districts of NCR are adjoining Delhi, which is one of the major reasons of surge in positive cases in Haryana, especially in NCR districts of Gurugram, Faridabad, Jhajjar, Sonipat and Rohtak. Haryana has continued with economic activities without any restrictions. What matters is the number of active patients at any given time. The number of new active patients is 6,600 as of now and the rate of their growth is totally manageable. Haryana’s positivity rate is 5.8% against the national average of 8.43%, fatality rate 1.24% against the national average of 2.34% and recovery rate 78% against the national average of 63.53%. Do you believe that sealing the borders of districts sharing boundary with Delhi would have helped in containing the spread of infection?NCR area is inter-connected and it is difficult to contain inter-state movement from Delhi to districts of Haryana even though border restrictions were enforced during the lockdown period. The Haryana government sealed borders with Delhi from time to time as per requirement. As of now, there is no such requirement of sealing the borders. How prepared are hospitals and health institutions for spike in patients needing hospitalisation, especially oxygen support?There is sufficient availability of isolation beds, beds with oxygen support, ventilators etc. Moreover, the state is regularly doing 15 days advanced projections and based on that there is sufficient infrastructure. We have already received more than 250 ventilators and 200 more are in the pipeline. It is the health department’s policy to have oxygen facility for every bed in government institution, either piped supply or through B&D type oxygen cylinders, and enough supply has already been received. Further, the rate contract has been finalised to purchase D-type and B-type oxygen cylinders. The procurement process is on. Long term oxygen infrastructure through manifold supplies is being ensured. The department had conducted an audit of Covid-19 deaths in the state. What trends and reasons does the report show?In May, the state had started conducting a death audit of all Covid-19 patients and the main observation was that a majority of the victims had one or multiple pre-existing comorbidities. Another reason, at least initially, has been the late arrival of patients to hospitals for which aggressive information, education and communication activities have been done across the state. Due to increased surveillance, patients are being brought well in time and it has resulted in reduction of fatality rate from 1.61 % to 1.24%. Why are there variations in reports regarding Covid-19 case data emerging from the district headquarters and that released by the department in its daily bulletin?There is a difference in the positive cases data reflected in the ICMR portal and the daily bulletin released by the state because there is delay in sharing the data of tests conducted by labs. Private labs in Gurugram are also doing tests outside of Haryana. This delays data sharing of Haryana districts. For this, show cause notices have been issued to the labs concerned. Now private labs are sharing data with districts. The pandemic has shown that governments have to focus heavily on developing health systems.More than 1,000 regular doctors and additional staff like microbiologist, epidemiologist, public health managers have been freshly recruited across the state to tackle the Covid-19 crisis effectively. While 1,200 ventilators are available in various dedicated Covid hospitals/health centres and 200 are in the pipeline. There are 2,216 ICU beds and 11 laboratories for RT-PCR testing in government health institutions. Six more labs will be set up shortly. This is in addition to the private labs in the state. Plasma banks have been established in Faridabad, Gurugram, Rohtak and Panchkula. Special provisions have been made for separate wards for deliveries of Covid positive patients and their dialysis. States like UP are scaling up tests to almost one lakh a day. What is Haryana planning?Despite being a small state, Haryana is one of the states conducting the highest tests per million. At present, it has done more than 22,000 tests per million. As of now, around 15,000 tests per day are being done and efforts are being made to scale up sampling in the near future. In May 2020, Haryana conducted 90,928 tests, with an average of 2,933 tests per day. This has been scaled up to 2,72,120 tests in July, with an average tests of around 10,885 daily. So, as compared to May, around 1,81,000 tests have been added till date. More than 1 lakh antigen testing has been done and is being scaled up. There has been demand by doctors, especially resident doctors, of increase in emoluments.The salary of doctors, paramedics and supporting staff who are directly involved in treatment of Covid-19 patients has been doubled. Also, all those involved in direct Covid duties have been given the facility of free boarding and lodging. There were some reports regarding non-inclusion of reports of some private laboratories in Gurugram. It has also been alleged that the department added those figures in state’s data at a lateral stage to cover its mistake.In ICMR portal, each lab is entering the data of all samples irrespective of the residence, whether samples are from Haryana or outside Haryana. Then the lab has to segregate data of Haryana and send all details to concerned districts of the state. Segregation of data has taken time, which delayed sharing. After receiving the data, the concerned district has included the data in the bulletin. Data updation is a continuous process and we are one of the few states which has been issuing daily bulletin without fail since February.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/high-testing-proximity-of-ncr-districts-to-delhi-behind-spike-in-haryana-cases/articleshow/77250573.cms||Ajay Sura
July 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Government plans major overhaul of education system in Andhra Pradesh||In a major overhaul of university education, the Andhra Pradesh government is gearing up to digitize various processes, including admissions to undergraduate courses, from the academic year 2020-21. This was revealed by Satish Chandra, special chief secretary (higher education), government of AP, on Wednesday during a session on ‘Education: Starting a new chapter, learning new lessons the digital way’ as part of TOI’s four-day ‘Reboot Andhra Pradesh’ conclave, which is supported by Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd in association with Eastern Power Distribution Company of AP Ltd, Visakhapatnam Special Economic Zone, Coastal Bank and TNR Talent High School. “The AP government has taken a decision that all universities need to be fully digitised so that no physical transfer of files takes place. The UG admissions will also be conducted online,” said Chandra, adding that the government is also in talks with service providers such as Jio to start online classes and television channels for various courses. “In a meeting held with all university vice-chancellors and officials from the higher education department, the Jio platform was demonstrated. We were informed of how universities can transition to e-learning resources,” said Prof V Krishna Mohan, registrar, Andhra University. The government is also planning to revive Mana TV, the government-owned channel, for online education. Central institutions such as Indian Institute of Management, Visakhapatnam (IIM-V) and the Indian Institute of Petroleum & Energy are also geared up for the ensuing academic year. “Registrations for the next academic year concluded on July 20. Preparatory classes are already on. By mid-August, term sessions shall commence,” said M Chandrasekhar, director, IIM-V. Srimathi Shivashankar, corporate vice-president and programme director, New Vistas, HCL Technologies, admitted that remote learning is the way forward. “In the IT sector, corporates are prepared to stay connected virtually. There is a sense of accountability that is fed from Day 1 as we are used to working remotely,” Shivashankar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-plans-major-overhaul-of-education-system-in-andhra/articleshow/77248061.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rs 1.5 crore in demonetized notes seized||Ahmedabad: Sleuths of the Gujarat ATS and Surat police’s special operation group (SOG) late on Wednesday seized demonetized currency notes with a face value of Rs 1.5 crore from the house of one Praveen Mangukiya, at Rivera Bungalows in Mota Varachha, Surat. Gujarat ATS SP Pinakin Parmar said they raided the premises based on a tip-off and seized the notes. “The accused had demonetized notes, Rs 1,000 and Rs 500 denominations, and was planning to sell them off,” Parmar added.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs-1-5-crore-in-demonetized-notes-seized/articleshow/77249426.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Bhopal||Five MP tourism hotels offer paid quarantine||BHOPAL:Five Madhya Pradesh Tourism hotels will now provide quarantine facilities to patients who are willing to pay for the hotel stay. Additional chief secretary (tourism) ICP Keshari on Wednesday said that MP tourism hotels in different cities of the state will be used as paid quarantine centres. MPTDC will charge maximum Rs 1,500 per day for providing lodging and catering facility. “People coming in contact with corona-infected patients or their families are advised to be quarantined. Keeping in mind their convenience, the corporation management has decided to use five hotels of the corporation as quarantine centres,” said Keshari. Hotels that are being converted into quarantine centres are — Hotel Lake View Bhopal, Hotel Kalchuri Residency in Jabalpur, Hotel Tansen Residency in Gwalior, Hotel Ujjaiyini in Ujjain and Vindhya Retreat in Rewa. Hotel Ujjaiyini and Hotel Vindhya Retreat will charge Rs 1,000 per day from the occupants, informed Keshari. This paid stay and catering facility will be available at these quarantine centres for 7-14 days. Additional chief secretary said that people who come back from abroad or outside the state, can also get quarantined here; special care will be taken of the inhabitants. Families who want to be quarantined at a comfortable place in place of a hospital, officials of administration or health department who are essentially asked to remain in quarantine, can also avail this facility. Necessary arrangements are being made here in a special wing, where people will be provided food in disposable packets. For more information, call on toll-free number 18002337777.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/5-mp-tourism-hotels-offer-paid-quarantine/articleshow/77249432.cms||Ramendra Singh
July 30, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur civic officials fine people for not wearing masks||JAIPUR: To prevent the spread of Covid, authorities of municipal corporations of Jaipur, Greater and Heritage on Wednesday fined around 80 people roaming in public parks without masks. The vigilance branch of both the civic bodies visited Mahaveer Garden, Nehru Children’s Park and Central Park to penalise people who were there without masks. Vigilance inspector Rakesh Yadav said it is difficult to make people understand about the importance of masks. “We have to speak for hours to make people understand that it is for their own safety. Some people will refuse to wear masks or will show it us saying that it was in their pockets. We scold them to wear it instead of keeping in pockets because the number of cases is rising. People just argue to avoid paying fine,” said Yadav. Along with police administration, officials of municipal corporations are being empowered to fine people. For not wearing masks Rs 200 is fined, any shopkeeper allowing people without masks is fined Rs 500 and people not following the social distancing are fined Rs 100. Apart from fining people, a small construction for free water cooler was demolished on the government road at the corner of Gangauri market in Chhoti Chapad by the vigilance wing squad. Apart from this, the ramp constructed illegally on the road outside Vivek Vihar Colony in Moti Dungri Zone was demolished.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/people-fined-for-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/77250563.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Virus after-effects: Fatigue, hypoxia hit Covid-19 survivors||HYDERABAD: The after-effects of a Covid-19 infection, ranging from muscle loss to fatigue and hypoxia (difficulty in breathing), can last for a long time — from a few weeks till up to a few months — say doctors treating Covid-19 patients. The period of post-recovery depends on the severity of the infection as well as an individual’s immunity. While there is no clear idea on how long the effects will remain, even after recovering and testing negative for the virus, several patients TOI spoke to, confirmed they were experiencing extreme fatigue, muscle loss and difficulty in walking, even after two to three months. In case of critical patients who were in ICU care, the residual lung fibrosis can remain for years and the antiviral drugs used might have an impact too, say experts. “I am unable to walk even for five minutes without support. I have lost almost half my muscle mass,” said a doctor who had contracted the virus and is now on the path to recovery after staying in an ICU for a fortnight. Another patient who tested negative two-and-a-half months ago said that every evening he feels so tired that he has to compulsorily nap for two to three hours, which he never did earlier. While Covid-19 is primarily a respiratory illness of the lungs in which air sacs are filled with fluids, limiting their capacity to absorb oxygen, it ultimately leads to symptoms like shortness of breath, cough etc. “People with severe symptoms of coronavirus could be dealing with complications for years even after the recovery,” said Dr A Raghu Kanth, senior pulmonologist, Medicover Hospitals. He added: “The initial lung damage with infection leads to scarring of lungs due to which quality of life eventually deteriorates. This condition requires support of home oxygenation even after recovery. In some cases, lung fibrosis may also affect the cardiac health of an individual” The most common lung problem faced post Covid-19 recovery is lung fibrosis. “It happens due to the lung tissue getting damaged because of infection. The damaged portion turns into scar tissue (fibrosis) and tries to heal. This portion cannot pump oxygen being damaged and the lung capacity is reduced,” said Dr G Navodaya, consultant, internal medicine, Care Hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/virus-after-effects-fatigue-hypoxia-hit-covid-survivors/articleshow/77250566.cms||Amrita Didyala
July 30, 2020||Lucknow||Reforms welcome, long overdue: Educationists||Lucknow: The educationists in city welcomed the new education policy and termed it long-pending reforms in the sector. The policy was released by Union ministry of human resource and development, also renamed as the ministry of education on Wednesday. Prima facie, it appears comprehensive and composite, but is accompanied by certain challenges, they said. Former CBSE chairman Ashok Ganguly said, “It was long overdue and will transform school education if followed by meticulous and clear plan of action. A national curriculum framework has to be readied by the end of this year.” Ganguly said a lot of focus has been given to creativity & critical thinking in the formative period of schooling which is good. “It needs to be strictly followed for the next two years and for this, a massive teacher training programme is required to change the mindset and skill set of teachers,” he added. Director UGC Human Resource Centre, LU, Prof. Nishi Pandey said, “The flexibility offered at undergraduate level (3 or 4 years) postgraduate (1 or 2 years) justifies the removal of MPhil. This will make programmes more need-based for students and the desire to aimlessly pursue a PG will be replaced with a more focused selection.” The changes introduced are in keeping with international standards where one year PG programmes are offered even in subjects like business administration, Pandey added. Former dean, faculty of education, Lucknow University, Prof. Amita Bajpai said, “This policy has finally extended the ambit of the right to education for children from 3 to 18 years. The policy discusses the issue of out of school children but it is silent on the special training component to enable children to reintegrate with education system. In these Covid times, we have large numbers of migrant children, special training is must for their educational rehabilitation.” Former LU vice-chancellor Prof. S P Singh said, “We needed an education policy which is not in bits and pieces. It’s a composite and comprehensive policy that covers all aspects of education sector be it primary, secondary or higher education and in which a clear roadmap is there to follow.” From more focus on digital learning, multidisciplinary knowledge dissemination the new education policy aims to universalize the pre-primary education by 2025 and provide foundational literacy to all by 2025, added Singh, who is famous for transforming National PG College. The policy provides increased flexibility and choice of subjects to study across various streams of arts, humanities, sciences, sports, and other vocational subjects to students, he said. Founder-manager of City Montessori School Jagdish Gandhi said, “The new education policy is a landmark document for the sector. We are expecting a lot of improvements in education and curriculum in the country as a whole.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/reforms-welcome-long-overdue-educationists/articleshow/77250996.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Highest toll in a day: Nine succumb to deadly virus||TNNLudhiana: The district witnessed the highest death toll in a day, with nine residents, including five elderly, succumbing to Covid-19 at various hospitals on Wednesday. Fifty-three persons from the district and seven from outside tested positive for the disease here on the day. Positive cases include seven healthcare workers. Health department officials said a 74-year-old man from New Janta Nagar, who apart from being Covid-19 positive had diabetes, hypertension and heart disease, died at a city hospital. Three persons who passed away at the civil hospital included a 62-year-old man from Gandhi Colony, who was also suffering from TB, a 42-year-old man from Maad Di Chakki and a 55-year-old woman, who had severe anaemia. Other casualties were a 62-year-old woman of Hazuri Bagh Road, who was also a cancer patient, a 73-year-old man of Dugri, who also suffered from diabetes and blood pressure, and a 68-year-old man from Daresi Road, who also had kidney problem. Youngest to die on Wednesday was a 24-year-old man who was brought to a hospital after he suffered a blunt trauma abdominal injury in a road accident, but was later found to be Covid-19 positive. The details of the ninth casualty were not shared till the filing of the report.The health department officials said with this, toll of Ludhiana district residents has risen to 80 and of outsiders to 38. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga said to date 60,384 samples of suspected persons have been taken. Of the 60 positive cases reported from private hospitals and laboratories, 53 belonged to Ludhiana district, two to Moga, one each to Jalandhar, Bathinda and Sangrur two to Jammu and Kashmir.The civil surgeon said of these positive cases in Ludhiana district, four were from Rishi Nagar, three each from Kitchlu Nagar, Lajpat Nagar and Basti Jodhewal, two each from Shivpuri, Janpath Nagar Ayali, South City, Jamalpur, Durgapuri, one each from Jalandhar Bypass, Rajguru Nagar, Khanna, Purani Sabzi Mandi, Surya Enclave, Tagore Nagar, Mohan Singh Nagar, Charchari, Sikandar Colony, Payal, Tajpur Road, New Madhopuri, Dhandran Road, Qila Mohalla, Kundanpuri, Dashmesh Nagar, Shiwala Road, Sarabha Nagar, Aman Park, Ranjit Singh Park, Bharat Nagar Chowk, New Staff Line, Pakhowal Road, Field Ganj, Tibba Road, Focal Point, Bhaini Sahib, Pratap Bazaar and Shaheed Karnail Singh.With this, the total number of corona positive cases in the district has increased to 2,886, while 417 outsiders also contracted the virus, said health department officials. They added that on Wednesday, 954 samples were sent for testing.26 of police dept infectedOn Wednesday evening, Ludhiana Police posted on its Facebook page that 26 of its employees have tested positive.“Of these, 18 were posted in various branches of Ludhiana commissioner of police office. Due to this, public is advised not to visit CP office for three more days. They can send their complaints via email to cp.ldh.police@punjab.gov.in,” read the post. “The SHO and three other police employees of Division 6 police station have also tested positive. Public dealing work of the police station has been temporarily suspended for three days. Those residing under Division 6 police station can approach Shimlapuri police station for their emergency works”.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal interacted with corona-infected police employees via video-conferencing and motivated them||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/highest-toll-in-a-day-nine-succumb-to-deadly-virus/articleshow/77248065.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Mangaluru||Python rescued from car’s glove box||Mangaluru: In an incident that left the owner terribly frightened, a juvenile python was rescued from the glove box of a car on Tuesday. Providing details about the rescue, Tauseef Ahmed founder and rescuer at Mr Rescuer said that Anand, a resident of Lady Hill, called for help. He was searching for his bank passbook, and when he opened the glove box of the car that was parked in the apartment basement, he was shocked to find a snake staring at him. He immediately locked the car and called for help. At that point, he was also unsure if it was a python or viper. Tauseef who rushed to help said, “I opened the glove box to find a juvenile python sleeping peacefully under the documents. The snake was rescued and released in its natural habitat, much to the relief of the residents who panicked, assuming it could be a viper. It is for the first time that I am rescuing a snake from the glove box of a car.” The car owner said that he has not moved the car for the past three days, and since it has been raining, the snake may have got inside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/python-rescued-from-cars-glove-box/articleshow/77248069.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Delhi||A businessman inside everyone of us: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: Stating that they wanted to change the mindset of students being job seekers rather than job providers, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and deputy CM Manish Sisodia invited Arjun Malhotra, co-founder of IT company HCL, to interact with government school students on Wednesday. Malhotra responded to the queries of students, which ranged from the importance of language to the risks one faced as an entrepreneur. Later, Sisodia also disclosed that the regional English language office of the US embassy, supported by Delhi government, had hosted an eight-week online course for 550 city-based educators. “In the one and a half years since this entrepreneurship mindset programme began, eminent people have addressed the children, but I am attending it for the first time,” said Kejriwal. “We believe that the people of our country are full of ideas and have brilliant entrepreneurial minds. A rickshaw puller is also an entrepreneur, a paanwala too. Every citizen knows how to run a business. But there is a problem with our education system. The moment we exit from our school, we start looking for jobs. We want to change this thinking.” Sisodia added that the purpose of such interactions was for successful people to inspire the spirit of enterprise in Delhi’s students. He said both Kejriwal and Malhotra were from the same institute — IIT, Kharagpur — and were good examples of entrepreneurship. Malhotra spoke of his career in the IT sector, recalling to hundreds of students on Zoom and YouTube how his scientist grandfather had influenced him into going to IIT Kharagpur and to study in the US after that. He recounted the numerous obstacles in his path, including how he once didn’t get permission to create computers. “Those who discourage you don’t realise the passion you have for your work,” he told the students. A student asked Malhotra about the possibility of creating low-cost gadgets to facilitate online education during the Covid-19 pandemic. The HCL executive replied, “If someone comes up with a simple device for this, then the government can contact engineering companies for its manufacture.” There were questions for Kejriwal too. Megha Sojwal, a student of Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya, Kalyanvas, asked the CM why he had decided to enter politics. “We came into politics because the government refused to enact the Jan Lokpal Bill following the India Against Corruption movement under Anna Hazare,” Kejriwal replied. To another question why Hindi should not be promoted as a medium of teaching, the CM said, “Our educational system is what was set up by Macauley in 1830. The result is that the students who speak English have a better chance at getting employment across the world. We haven’t been able to implement Hindi in schools. But I do hope that someday, Hindi becomes a medium of teaching.” Malhotra interjected to say that technology was available today “to help translate what you want in the language you're comfortable with”. Kejriwal later tweeted that through online events of this sort, “we are training our government school kids to think innovatively and inculcate the entrepreneurial spirit”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/a-businessman-inside-everyone-of-us-cm/articleshow/77250586.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Pune||Sassoon gets `31 crore to fill key vacancies||Pune: Sassoon hospital in the city is set to receive Rs 31 crore from the state to fill up vacant posts of doctors, nurses and paramedical staff for a period of six months. The hospital, which was operating 260 beds, now has 466 beds — a number that will again be increased to 870 early next month to manage Covid-19 patients. S Chockalingam, the state settlement commissioner, said 530 ICU beds and another 340 units will be set aside by the first week of August. Advertisements were released to hire senior doctors for 80 vacant posts at the hospital, but so far, only 28 candidates have appeared for interviews. The government has also released 40 ventilators for the hospital, which earlier had 80 such machines. The fresh injection of medical infrastructure will now allow the hospital — the city’s lead Covid-19 unit — to operate 120 ICU beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sassoon-gets-31-crore-to-fill-key-vacancies/articleshow/77250576.cms||Nisha Nambiar
July 30, 2020||Kolhapur||13 deaths, 507 cases in Kolhapur district||Kolhapur: As many as 507 cases were reported across Kolhapur district on Wednesday along with 13 deaths. With addition of new patients, the total number of cases has reached to 5,582 and the death toll stands at 155. A health official said that the active cases stand at 3,200. Meanwhile, a total of 17 air-conditioned coffins have been procured by the zilla parishad and the same has been given to the primary health centres to keep the bodies till the arrangements of last rites are set in place. Hambirrao Patil, chairman of ZP’s health committee, said, “We have found that bodies of Covid patients need to be kept for some time till the family members are informed and other formalities are completed. We have distributed these coffins to the 17 PHCs in Ajra, Hatkanangle, Gaganbawda, Shahuwadi, Shirol, Kagal and Karveer tehsils.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/13-deaths-507-cases-in-kolhapur-district/articleshow/77246623.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Jaipur||MLSU gears up for online exams for final yr students||Udaipur: Mohanlal Sukhdia University officials are gearing up for online examinations likely to be held for final year graduation and postgraduation students. Though the state government has asked the universities not to hold examinations for any classes, the UGC has been recommending universities to conduct online examinations for final year students at both the UG and PG levels. MLSU is working on a pilot project for the online examinations. The university's newly appointed vice chancellor Prof America Singh on Wednesday held a meeting with the examination controller RC Kumawat and deputy registrar Mukesh Barber to discuss the technicalities and issues involved in the process. The VC said the new pattern of online exams would prove to be a milestone for the career of hundreds of students of the varsity. To test the feasibility of the pilot project, select teachers would be asked to solve multiple choice question papers in a duration of 2-hours each. Modules are being developed and 25, 50 and 100 teachers respectively at various levels would be made to appear in the online examination to test the nitty-gritty of conducting the online exams which would be first of its kind in the institution.Students may solve the question papers through smart phones and they would also have the open book choice before them. The vice chancellor suggested to make centres for those students who do not have smart phones. The online examination project report would be sent for approval to the governor and the state government next month. Caption: MLSU V-C America Singh (center) during a discussion meeting on online exams module on wednesday||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mlsu-gears-up-for-online-exams-for-final-yr-students/articleshow/77250578.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Golden jackal numbers dwindling in Telangana & Andhra tiger reserves||HYDERABAD: The golden jackal is slowly disappearing from the tiger reserves of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The Status of Tiger, Co-predators and Prey in India report has revealed that there have been fewer camera trap captures of the golden jackal in Amrabad, Kawal and Srisailam tiger reserves in the past years.  “In Amrabad tiger reserve, golden jackal distribution was concentrated on the western side of the park, especially in the Kollapur range which is dominated by teak forest,” said National Tiger Conservation Authority. In Kawal tiger reserve, golden jackal had very few photo-captures, mostly seen in the dry teak forest of both Jannaram and Khanapur divisions. Wildlife official A Shankaran said: “The numbers of jackal and wolf are decreasing.” However, Hyderabad Tiger Conservation Society founder Imran Siddique said the golden jackal has been recently spotted in Kawal tiger reserve, which is a positive sign. “The animal is very important in tiger reserves for mammalian diversity. This balances predator, co-predator and prey base,” he said. Meanwhile, experts have said that the relocation of tribal hamlets from the tiger reserves helps in the protection of flora and fauna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/golden-jackal-nos-dwindling-in-t-andhra-tiger-reserves/articleshow/77249442.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Accused to get notice in Palathayi case||KOCHI: The high court on Wednesday directed for sending notice to Kuniyil Padmarajan, a local leader of BJP and school teacher, who is accused of sexually abusing a Class IV student at Palathayi in Kannur. Justice VG Arun directed for sending notice to the accused through the investigating officer after considering a plea filed by the child’s mother to cancel the bail granted to him. Considering the mother’s challenge against the decision of a Pocso special court to grant bail to the accused, the court directed prosecution to inform the progress in investigation. In the petition filed through advocate Mohammed Shah, it is alleged that the accused abused the girl from January 15 to February 2 and the investigation team filed a report before the special court without including offences under the Pocso Act. The mother has contended that her daughter had specifically stated about the teacher’s acts in her statement and that the medico-legal examination certificate also corroborates the case. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/accused-to-get-notice-in-palathayi-case/articleshow/77248099.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Faridabad||Covid-19: Haryana cases rise to 33,631, toll at 413 with 7 fatalities||CHANDIGARH: On Wednesday, Haryana health minister Anil Vij’s home district joined the top five worst Covid-affected districts of the state as 755 new cases took the nCov count to 33,631, while seven deaths pushed the death toll to 413. As many as 662 patients were also discharged after recovery from various hospitals in the state. With 26,420 recoveries to date, the recovery rate stands at 78.56%. As on Wednesday evening, there were 6,798 active cases, out of which 147 were said to be critical. According to information, Faridabad continued to dominate the daily count of Covid-19 cases across the state with 198 new cases. The district also saw two fatalities. The district’s count of positive cases so far has gone up to 8,295, and there have been 129 fatalities. After 6,521 recoveries, Faridabad has total 1,645 active cases. Gurugram district maintained the lead in terms of overall tally. With 91 new patients, the total count stands at 8,912. One death took overall toll to 122 and now there are only 1,018 active patients in the district, as recoveries have gone up to 7,772. Notably, Ambala recorded 75 new Covid-19 patients to join the top five worst-hit districts of the state. Here, the count of positive cases has gone up to 1,447, while 14 patients have died. Rest two district in the top five are Sonipat with 2,841 patients and Rewari with 1,603 patients. After Ambala, Panchkula reported 46 new cases, Jind 43, Panipat saw 39 cases and two casualties, while 35 new patients were registered in Karnal and Rohtak, with the latter also witnessing a death. Thirty-two new cases were reported from Rewari, Sonipat saw 26 new cases and one death, Sirsa reported 21 new cases, Fatehabad 18, Palwal 17, Yamunanagar and Hisar recorded 14 cases each, 13 cases each surfaced in Nuh and Kurukshetra, seven in Kaithal, four in Bhiwani, three in Charkhi Dadri and two cases were reported from Jhajjar. The testing rate in Haryana has gone up to 22,984 tests per million per day, with total 582,639 persons tested so far. Till Wednesday, 76,536 persons had completed their quarantine period, while there were still 52,739 persons under institutional and home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/hry-cases-rise-to-33631-toll-at-413-with-7-fatalities/articleshow/77258400.cms||Manvir Saini
July 30, 2020||Jaipur||Collector urges business community to follow Covid norms during festivals||Jaipur: District Collector Antar Singh Nehra on Wednesday wrote to the representatives of the business community, members of Jaipur Vypapar Mahasangh and office bearers of Vpapar Mandal in various markets requesting cooperation for compliance of Covid norms during the religious events and festivals to be held in the coming days.The collector said, due to excessive crowds in the markets during festivals like Eid u-Zuha, Raksha Bandhan, Janmasthami, Ganesh Chaturthi, Ramdev Jayanti and Moharram (Tajia), there is a possibility of the spread of Covid infection.In view of this, he has requested the Vyapar Mandals to ensure strict compliance of the Covid guidelines issued by the state and central governments. He also urged the presidents of the presidents of the Vypar Mandals to ensure that a large number of people do not gather inside the shops at a time. In another order, Nehra said, a one-day workshop to educate the farmers, field-level workers and bankers about Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana, will be organised at Chaksu and Kotkhauda tehsils on July 30, at Jamwaramgarh on August 5, at Bassi on August 6, at Chomu on August 7.He informed that workshops will be held in Kishangarh Renwal on August 10; at Shahpura and Viratnagar on August 11; at Kotputli and Paota on August 13; at Phulera on August 14. The workshops in Jaipur and Aamer tehsils will be held on August 17. So far, workshops have been organized in Sanganer, Phagi, Dudu and Mauzamabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/collector-urges-business-community-to-follow-covid-norms-during-festivals/articleshow/77250575.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Hyderabad||NHRC notice: BIE stalls affiliation of junior colleges over lapses||HYDERABAD: The Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education (TSBIE) has claimed it inspected 194 junior colleges and imposed a fine of over Rs 1.66 crore as they violated board norms by conducting classes during holidays. The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) had issued a notice to TSBIE after a series of suicides by Intermediate students. One Sravan Kumar had filed a petition with the NHRC alleging that several students had committed suicide as they were forced to live in trauma and were getting exploited by private colleges. TSBIE, in its 24-page response to the NHRC notice, said it had found lapses in nine areas, including running unauthorised hostels on their premises, not following the academic calendar and conducting classes even on Sundays and festival days, and 18 stress-inducing factors. The board said it had also restricted affiliation of Narayana and Sri Chaitanya Junior colleges till the payment of penalties and rectification of lapses. Although the report was submitted in December 2019, it was made public recently. TSBIE secretary Syed Omer Jaleel submitted that the board had formed district committees and made surprise visits to inspect 194 colleges. Of them, 84 were in Hyderabad, 73 in Medchal-Malkajgiri, and 37 in Rangareddy district. “Classes/study hours were scheduled between 6 am and 11 pm. Breakfast, lunch, snacks, and dinner breaks were hardly for 15-30 minutes. As the number of washrooms per floor is not sufficient in the hostel, the students were stressed about using washrooms within 15 minutes and they were not allowed to use washrooms during class/study hours,” Jaleel said and added that even on Sundays students were not allowed to meet their parents for more than an hour. The board said that colleges were found conducting examinations for three or four days in a week and based on the marks secured in these exams, they were changing the sections of the students causing mental agony. The lecturers were said to be concentrating only on the meritorious students and neglecting the average and below average ones. The committee members also observed that the quality of the food was not good, snacks provided were not sufficient, and due to unhygienic washrooms and dining halls, many students were falling sick. The board said that seven students had committed suicide during the academic year 2017-18 and that they formed a three-member committee to conduct a detailed inquiry and based on the report issued show-cause notices to colleges on their shortfalls. Apart from appointing and training student counsellors, the board submitted that it had issued several guidelines — to employ professional counsellors, have compulsory games and sports every day, to avoid overcrowding of classrooms and hostels, among others to colleges to prevent suicides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nhrc-notice-bie-stalls-affiliation-of-jr-colleges-over-lapses/articleshow/77250591.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
July 30, 2020||Ajmer||Bikaner, Ajmer medical colleges write to Centre over plasma therapy||JAIPUR: Bikaner and Ajmer medical colleges have written to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) seeking permission to conduct plasma therapy on needy Covid patients. Medical colleges in Jaipur, Kota, Jodhpur and Udaipur have already got DCGI’s permission for plasma therapy. Health department expects that by April 15 all the medical colleges at divisional headquarters will be carrying out plasma therapy. Health minister Raghu Sharma said treating serious Covid patients with plasma therapy, which started at Sawai Man Singh Hospital in Jaipur, has been 100% successful as all the 47 patients have recovered. However, permission has been sought from DCGI to start treatment with plasma therapy in other medical colleges. The government has completed micro level planning to start plasma therapy at hospitals in each district headquarters. Plasma therapy will only take off only when more and more people who recover from Covid donate their plasma for other patients. A plasma bank has already been set up at SMS Hospital. Similar plasma banks will come up in other medical colleges of the state. The state government may rope in NGOs to help it in encouraging people who have recovered from Covid and eligible for plasma donation. According to the medical experts, any person aged between 18 and 60 years who was tested corona positive through RT-PCR test and turned negative after treatment of 14 days can donate plasma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/bikaner-ajmer-medical-colleges-write-to-centre-seeking-permission-for-plasma-therapy/articleshow/77253794.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Jaipur||Bikaner, Ajmer medical colleges write to Centre over plasma therapy||JAIPUR: Bikaner and Ajmer medical colleges have written to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) seeking permission to conduct plasma therapy on needy Covid patients. Medical colleges in Jaipur, Kota, Jodhpur and Udaipur have already got DCGI’s permission for plasma therapy. Health department expects that by April 15 all the medical colleges at divisional headquarters will be carrying out plasma therapy. Health minister Raghu Sharma said treating serious Covid patients with plasma therapy, which started at Sawai Man Singh Hospital in Jaipur, has been 100% successful as all the 47 patients have recovered. However, permission has been sought from DCGI to start treatment with plasma therapy in other medical colleges. The government has completed micro level planning to start plasma therapy at hospitals in each district headquarters. Plasma therapy will only take off only when more and more people who recover from Covid donate their plasma for other patients. A plasma bank has already been set up at SMS Hospital. Similar plasma banks will come up in other medical colleges of the state. The state government may rope in NGOs to help it in encouraging people who have recovered from Covid and eligible for plasma donation. According to the medical experts, any person aged between 18 and 60 years who was tested corona positive through RT-PCR test and turned negative after treatment of 14 days can donate plasma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bikaner-ajmer-medical-colleges-write-to-centre-seeking-permission-for-plasma-therapy/articleshow/77250583.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Pune||Kerala likely to send more doctors and nurses to Pune||PUNE: The Kerala government is likely to send a second team of healthcare workers to Maharashtra — particularly Pune and Mumbai — after a request from chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. In a letter to his Kerala counterpart, Pinarayi Vijayan, Thackeray asked for a batch of ICU-trained nurses, intensivists, anaesthetists, pulmonologists and physicians. Officials from the Kerala chief minister’s office said the state was considering the request favourably. “A reply has been sent seeking specific requirements. The health department will follow up,” a senior official from the health department told TOI. TimesViewKerala and Maharashtra should ensure the teams of doctors and nurses sent to the latter state are compensated well, considering the risks involved in treating Covid-19 cases. But salary negotiations take time and can slow emergency response. Protests over salaries during service have disrupted treatment in many cities. The two states should work to determine adequate pay for these doctors and nurses.Dr Santhosh Kumar SS, deputy superintendent of the Thiruvananthapuram Medical College Hospital and team lead of the Mumbai mission told TOI that resources would be allocated as per requirements. “We are willing to return. But better pay, especially for the nurses, is a requirement. They were promised Rs 30,000, but that was cut to Rs 26,000. The nursing association has now asked Rs 50,000, in hand,” he said. Kumar led the first team of doctors from Kerala who served at Mumbai's civic-run Seven Hills Hospital. Kerala had earlier sent 40 doctors and 35 nurses to Maharashtra. They went back last month after 45 days of service. But Maharashtra, which has increased the number of ICU units for patients with serious Covid-19, will need more healthcare professionals. In Pune, the three large upcoming makeshift hospitals will need a number of nurses trained in ICU care. Pune collector Naval Kishore Ram said the city will need at least 2,500 more nurses as many have gone back to their hometowns. Private hospitals said at least 100 nurses have quit their jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kerala-likely-to-send-more-doctors-and-nurses-to-pune/articleshow/77250582.cms||Nisha Nambiar
July 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Land sharks swallowed lakes and parks, claim complainants||SECUNDERABAD: Ever since its launch earlier this month, the Assets Protection Cell (APC) is flooded with several complaints regarding land sharks swallowing lakes, parks and open spaces in the city. It is reliably learnt that the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has initiated a probe on a complaint that a decades-old lake at Malkajgiri had been encroached upon. Similarly, authorities are investigating if a municipal park’s land was illegally occupied at Padma Rao Nagar in Secunderabad. So far, 25 complaints regarding encroachments in Secunderabad have been received by the APC. Of them, five are related to water bodies at Alwal, Malkajgiri and Gandhinagar, six are regarding GHMC parks and 14 are related to government land. Sources said that after receiving a complaint, APC is alerting concerned departments like irrigation, engineering or town planning wing of GHMC. “The moment we receive a complaint, we will conduct a detailed inspection to check the authenticity of the complaint. If we are convinced that it is genuine we will then conduct a probe and seek a report on the alleged encroachment from the officials concerned. Thereafter, on the basis of inspection reports, we will serve notices to the offenders. After seeking their response, the director, vigilance and enforcement wing (GHMC) will take action to punish the squatters as per the law,” a GHMC official told TOI. “The APC has been set up to protect government assets within the Greater Hyderabad limits. Those concerned can lodge their complaint by calling 1800-599-0099. The details of the complainants will be kept confidential,” said a senior GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/land-sharks-swallowed-lakes-and-parks-claim-complainants/articleshow/77249433.cms||Sunil Mungara
July 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Haryana cases rise to 33,631, toll at 413 with 7 fatalities||CHANDIGARH: On Wednesday, Haryana health minister Anil Vij’s home district joined the top five worst Covid-affected districts of the state as 755 new cases took the nCov count to 33,631, while seven deaths pushed the death toll to 413. As many as 662 patients were also discharged after recovery from various hospitals in the state. With 26,420 recoveries to date, the recovery rate stands at 78.56%. As on Wednesday evening, there were 6,798 active cases, out of which 147 were said to be critical. According to information, Faridabad continued to dominate the daily count of Covid-19 cases across the state with 198 new cases. The district also saw two fatalities. The district’s count of positive cases so far has gone up to 8,295, and there have been 129 fatalities. After 6,521 recoveries, Faridabad has total 1,645 active cases. Gurugram district maintained the lead in terms of overall tally. With 91 new patients, the total count stands at 8,912. One death took overall toll to 122 and now there are only 1,018 active patients in the district, as recoveries have gone up to 7,772. Notably, Ambala recorded 75 new Covid-19 patients to join the top five worst-hit districts of the state. Here, the count of positive cases has gone up to 1,447, while 14 patients have died. Rest two district in the top five are Sonipat with 2,841 patients and Rewari with 1,603 patients. After Ambala, Panchkula reported 46 new cases, Jind 43, Panipat saw 39 cases and two casualties, while 35 new patients were registered in Karnal and Rohtak, with the latter also witnessing a death. Thirty-two new cases were reported from Rewari, Sonipat saw 26 new cases and one death, Sirsa reported 21 new cases, Fatehabad 18, Palwal 17, Yamunanagar and Hisar recorded 14 cases each, 13 cases each surfaced in Nuh and Kurukshetra, seven in Kaithal, four in Bhiwani, three in Charkhi Dadri and two cases were reported from Jhajjar. The testing rate in Haryana has gone up to 22,984 tests per million per day, with total 582,639 persons tested so far. Till Wednesday, 76,536 persons had completed their quarantine period, while there were still 52,739 persons under institutional and home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-cases-rise-to-33631-toll-at-413-with-7-fatalities/articleshow/77250579.cms||Manvir Saini
July 30, 2020||Nagpur||SECR’s 1st rail over rail flyover commissioned at Chacher||Nagpur: The Nagpur division of South East Central Railway (SECR) commissioned its 10.2km first rail over rail (RoR) at Chacher station near Kanhan recently. It will help smooth movement of goods train without hampering movement of passenger trains below. “Both, freight train and mail/express trains will move uninterrupted,” says Anurag Kumar Singh, divisional commercial manager (DCM). RoR at Chacher is attached to NTPC power plant siding. Earlier, movement of coal-loaded wagons used to disrupt main line traffic while crossing. This will ensure smooth movement of trains between Howrah—Nagpur-Mumbai. “With commissioning of RoR avoidance of surface crossing has been increased as the detention of main line trains has been eliminated. This will increase our turnaround,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/secrs-1st-rail-over-rail-flyover-commissioned-at-chacher/articleshow/77250590.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fitness trainers selling household items to survive||Ahmedabad: Lockdown has affected almost all sections of the society, but fitness trainers may have been the hardest hit of them all. With gyms closed for months even after the lockdown was partially lifted and fitness enthusiasts following social distancing norms, the trainers, many of them body-builders of repute, are struggling to make ends meet.Krunal Mistry, former Mr Ahmedabad and multiple-time Mr Gujarat bodybuilding champion, has taken up welding and fabrication work to survive. He earns Rs 350 a day which is not enough to sustain his family. “From 75 kg, my weight has come down to 62 in the last four months. My wife is educated — an MA — but has no job. After selling off my bike and all the furniture in the house, I have started working as a labourer. We have problem getting food during the lockdown,” said 36-year-old Mistry, the recently-crowned Mr North Gujarat.For about a decade, Mistry has been working as personal fitness trainer with a decent income before the lockdown ruined his life. “I could not afford the rent of the house we were living in and had to move to a cheaper accommodation in Sarkhej recently,’’ he said.Another celebrated bodybuilder-turned-fitness trainer Vijay Shinde, 37, is in no better situation. “I was charging anything between Rs 10,000 and Rs 15,000 a month per client. But nearly 70% of my clients stopped availing my services soon after the lockdown started. This had an adverse affect on my personal practice too,” revealed Vijay, who has been a nine-time Gujarat power-lifting champion.“To keep myself fit, I used to take proteins in the form of eggs, dry fruits, broccoli and protein supplements but now have to survive on chapati, vegetables, daal and rice,” said Shinde. Sooraj Pancholi, 40, a seasoned bodybuilder and powerlifter, too won medals at the national and state-levels championships but finds himself in dire need of financial help. He used to work as a freelance fitness trainer and was selected in the top-10 at the 2019 Asia's strongest men competition held in Thailand. “I would earn around Rs 2 lakh before lockdown but now I am virtually penniless and have to borrow from friends for my family’s survival. After selling off refrigerator, air conditioner and scooter, I had to sell off my wife’s mangalsutra for Rs 19,000 to pay my electricity bills,” said the veteran trainer, who won the 2014 Gujarat Bodybuilding Championship."Fitness is a necessity and not a luxury and should not be neglected during the pandemic situation," said Gaurav Parmar, executive member at the Indian Body Builders Federation (IBBF), Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fitness-trainers-selling-household-items-to-survive/articleshow/77250671.cms||Sanjay Chakhaiyar
July 30, 2020||Lucknow||Covid claims lives of teen girl, 2 others; Lucknow toll reaches 90||LUCKNOW: Three more Covid deaths, including that of a a 15 year-old girl, were recorded in the city, taking the toll to 90 since the outbreak. Of the total deaths, 70 have occurred in July, with one patient, on an average, dying every 10 hours. The 15-year-old girl from Alambagh died due to respiratory failure at RML Institute of Medical Sciences on Tuesday night. She was admitted in a critical state with tuberculosis meningitis. Tests found that she was also suffering from Covid-19, said institute spokesperson Dr Shrikesh Singh. A 62-year-old man from Naya Gaon area admitted to KGMU with “low blood oxygen levels” died due to cardiopulmonary arrest within 16 hours of admission on Tuesday night. “The patient also had chronic kidney disease and hypertension,” said KGMU spokesperson Dr Sudhir Singh. At SGPGI’s Covid hospital, an 86-year-old man who had chronic diabetes and kidney ailment died on Tuesday night. He was also admitted in a critical state with low blood oxygen level Meanwhile, two more Covid-19 patients, one each from Prayagraj and Hardoi, d ied at SGPGI on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/virus-claims-lives-of-teen-girl-2-others-city-toll-reaches-90/articleshow/77251000.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Missing Covid man’s wife seeks HC help||VIJAYAWADA: A 36-year-old woman moved a habeas corpus petition in the high court after her husband, who tested positive for Covid-19, went missing from the hospital. The man was admitted in Guntur Government General Hospital and has been missing for the last two weeks. The man, who works in an ashram at Nandivelugu village, fell ill on July 14, following which ashram authorities informed his wife about it over the phone. She rushed to Nandivelugvu and took her husband to Tenali government hospital where he tested positive. On July 16, Tenali hospital authorities told the woman that her husband had been shifted to a private hospital in Mangalagiri that was recognised by the government as a Covid-19 hospital. However, when she went to the said hospital, the authorities told her that no person by her husband’s name was admitted there. Taken aback, she again went back to Tenali and the hospital officials this time told her that he was taken to Guntur GGH. She rushed to Guntur GGH where the officials confirmed that her husband had been admitted there. But as her husband had tested positive, she was not allowed to see him. As she continued to insist on seeing her husband in the following days, the staff took her to the ward mentioned in the register, but to their surprise he was not there. They searched for him all over the hospital but could not find him. Unable to find her husband, the woman moved high court with a habeas corpus petition seeking directions to the concerned officials to trace her husband.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/missing-covid-mans-wife-seeks-hc-help/articleshow/77248082.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fingerprints unmask proxy exam-taker||Ahmedabad: Officials of the Central Housing Corporation (CHC), a government of India undertaking, on Tuesday filed a complaint of cheating, breach of trust and criminal conspiracy against a Rajasthan-based man, for allegedly making his friend take the entrance exam for a job as superintendent but was found out as the fingerprints taken during the exam, did not match his when he joined work. Lakshminarayan Bunkar, 56, a senior assistant manager with CHC in Ahmedabad, in his FIR to Paldi police stated that he was in his office in Paldi when the accused, Ravi Meena, came to join work as superintendent general for Bhavnagar. He came with an appointment letter which he showed CHC officials, but when they checked biometrics, his fingerprints did not match those of the person who had taken the exam. When they checked the photograph of the person who took the exam, they discovered that someone else had taken the exam for Meena. They questioned Meena and he confessed to having passed the exam through fraudulent means. “He told us that he replaced his photograph with that of his friend and convinced him to take the entrance exam. His friend took the exam and passed,” the FIR states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fingerprints-unmask-proxy-exam-taker/articleshow/77249444.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Jaipur||Alwar district tops in active cases, Jaipur at position 3||JAIPUR: The state reported a record 1,144 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, shattering the Monday’s figure of 1,134 infections. It was the fifth day in a row that the state has reported over 1,000 cases in a single day. The major cause of concern is that the average growth rate, which was 3% earlier, has now increased to 3.3%. Active cases have also risen to 10,817. For every 100 confirmed cases in the state, 27 are currently infected. Alwar with 2,109 cases has surpassed Jodhpur (2,036) in number of active cases. Jaipur is third in the list with 1,056 cases. With 1,144 new infections, the state’s tally now stands at 39,780. The day also saw the death of 10 persons, taking the casualty toll to 654. Recovered cases have also surged with a total of 28,309 cured patients. Wednesday’s fatalities included three in Pali, Bikaner (2) Karauli (1), Churu (1), Alwar (1) and two from other states. The districts which reported new cases are Alwar (253), Jodhpur (154), Jaipur (102), Udaipur (79), Pali (76), Sikar (57), Barmer (53), Bharatpur (51), Ajmer (47), Kota (45), Bhilwara (29), Sirohi (27), Jalore (24), Rajsamand (24), Sriganganagar (19), Banswara (17), Nagaur (17), Churu (16), Dungarpur (11), Dausa (10), Jhunjhunu (7), Hanumangarh (6), Jhalawar (5), Baran (4), Bundi (3), Sawai Madhopur (3), Karauli (2), Chittorgarh (2) and Pratapgarh (1). In Jaipur, 34 different places reported 102 cases, including Jhotwara (10), Malviya Nagar (10) and Sanganer (8).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/alwar-dist-tops-in-activecases-jaipur-at-position-3/articleshow/77250580.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Inter hostels affiliation put on hold||HYDERABAD: Students and their parents have to wait at least one more year to see regularization of hostels run by the intermediate colleges as the board said that the plan has been put on hold for this academic year (2020-21) because of Covid-19. Speaking to TOI, Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education (TSBIE) secretary Syed Omer Jaleel said that if not for Covid-19, he would have pushed for the hostel affiliation from the academic year of 2020-21 Jaleel said that the District Intermediate Education Officers (DIEOs) have inspected hostels attached to junior colleges in all the districts. “Presently hostels are not permitted/regulated. It is being proposed to bring them under proper regulation by specifying standards and enforcing the same. A proposal is being submitted to the government in this regard,” Jaleel said in his response to NHRC. The board has released a notification for hostel affiliation before the start of the academic year 2017-18, but it did not come into force then as colleges approached the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/inter-hostels-affiliation-put-on-hold/articleshow/77250675.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Kochi||Academics slam arrest of Keralite professor||KOCHI: The arrest of Delhi University professor Hany Babu M T by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the Elgar Parishad case is seen as a continuing assault by the central government on academic intelligentsia and social activists in the country who had shown the courage to express dissent, feel many academics. “The arrest of Hany Babu is shocking and is an attempt at intimidation, but there is nothing surprising in it. This intimidation has been going on for some time. This may be because of the false belief that arresting academics who are vocal in human rights issues may dissuade others. But in the long run, this would certainly boomerang on them,” said J Devika, associate professor with Centre for Development Studies in Thiruvananthapuram. Devika said the discourse around human rights is increasingly seen as a crime in India. “The most powerful voices in the post-Emergency civil rights movement emerged from Delhi University. The continuing arrests of people from the academic community and social activists is an attempt to cripple Indian civil rights movement,” she said. Human rights discourse has a special role in society as it keeps a check on social injustice, she said. “If this comes under continuous attack, people would start thinking of other options,” she said. “I see a continuity in this. Arrest of Hany Babu is not isolated and the central government has been doing this for the past four-five years,” said Krishnan Unni P, professor of English at Deshbandhu College and a friend of Hany. Unni feels arrests like these were a nightmare earlier but not anymore and have become way too common. “If you are a social activist or writer critical of the government, you can expect the sound of calling bell or a door knock any time,” he said. “We all know that Hany Babu has nothing to do with Bhima Koregaon. An anti-caste man, he has always stood for rights of Dalits and OBCs. The only connection he has to the case is perhaps that he is a member of a committee formed to support G N Sai Baba, who was arrested in the case,” says Unni. Poet and academician K Satchidanandan said the pandemic and lockdown is being used by the state as a kind of Emergency. “The arrests of Sudha Bharadwaj, Gautam Navlakha, Anand Teltumbde, students involved in anti-CAA protests, Shaheen Bagh and denial of bail to people like Varavara Rao, who tested positive for Covid, show clearly the government’s intent. Arrest of Hany Babu is the latest proof in this regard,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/academics-slam-arrest-of-keralite-prof/articleshow/77248141.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Shimla||Covid-19: 73 more positive, Himachal tally rises to 2,403||SHIMLA: In Himachal Pradesh, 73 new Covid-19 cases were reported on Wednesday, even as 98 patients recovered across the state. Of the new cases, 26 from Solan district, 13 from Kangra, nine from Kullu, eight from Shimla, seven from Mandi, five from Sirmaur, three from Kinnaur, and two from Hamirpur. The state now has 2,403 positive cases, of which 1,042 are active. Sirmaur district led in cases of recovery (60), followed by Solan (28), Kangra (eight) and Bilaspur (two). So far, 1,332 patients have recovered in the state while 12 have died. Till now, 1,39,955 people have been tested for Covid-19 in the state, of which 1,35,536 have tested negative while results of 1,016 samples are awaited. Solan district has maximum 593 positive cases, of which 382 are active, 205 have recovered while six have migrated out of the state. Kangra district has the second highest number of 443 positive cases, of which 117 are active, 321 have recovered, three have died while two migrated out of state. Hamirpur district has 304 positive cases, of which 22 are active, 279 have recovered while three have died. Sirmaur district has 305 positive cases, of which 182 are active, 115 have recovered, one has died while seven migrated out of the state. Una district has 195 positive cases, of which 59 are active and 136 have recovered. Bilaspur district has 87 positive cases, of which 34 are active while 53 have recovered. Chamba district has 103 positive cases, of which 32 are active and 70 have recovered. Kinnaur district has 44 positive cases, of which 17 are active and 27 have recovered. Kullu district has 33 positive cases, of which 16 are active and 17 have recovered. Lahaul-Spiti district has total four positive cases and all have recovered. Mandi district has 133 positive cases, of which 87 are active, 43 have recovered and three have died. Shimla district has 159 positive cases, of which 94 are active, 62 have recovered and two have died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/73-more-ve-himachal-tally-rises-to-2403/articleshow/77250595.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Lucknow||KGMU slaps Rs 25,000 fine on mess vendor||LUCKNOW: The King George’s Medical University (KGMU) on Wednesday slapped a fine of Rs 25,000 on the vendor hired to run the canteen a day after the Resident Doctors’ Welfare Association (RDWA) complained of insects and larvae in the food being provided to doctors on duty in the Covid ward.  The varsity formed a committee to keep a check on the quality of food. The firm was also warned of legal action in case of any lapses in the future. TOI had also reported the plight of the resident doctors on Wednesday. In its official statement, KGMU said that on the complaint by its doctors, a food quality check committee comprising representatives of Resident Doctors’ Association, nursing association and employees’ council had been formed. This committee will conduct regular surprise inspections and ensure that food quality at the university is continuously re-checked by the food security officer. The doctors on Covid duty had also complained of poor accommodation provided to them. For this, KGMU said that long term demand of the resident doctors will also be solved after discussion with the quarantine committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kgmu-slaps-rs-25k-fine-on-mess-vendor/articleshow/77251001.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Covid positive woman’s son assaults BDO||PUNE: A man (35) assaulted a block development officer (BDO) and the latter’s driver at the Somatne gram panchayat office on Monday, fearing that the official had come to take his coronavirus-positive mother to a covid care centre. Later, a test report of the man showed that he also was Covid-19 positive. The man and his mother have since been admitted to a covid care centre. On Tuesday, the Talegaon Dabhade police registered an offence against the man for beating up BDO Sudhir Bhagwat and his driver. Bhagwat and his team had gone to Somatne gram panchayat to review the coronavirus situation. Talegaon Dabhade police sub-inspector Nilesh Bokephode said the man was booked under the relevant sections of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ncov-positive-womans-son-assaults-bdo/articleshow/77250585.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Ajmer||Alwar district tops in active cases, Jaipur at position 3||JAIPUR: The state reported a record 1,144 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, shattering the Monday’s figure of 1,134 infections. It was the fifth day in a row that the state has reported over 1,000 cases in a single day. The major cause of concern is that the average growth rate, which was 3% earlier, has now increased to 3.3%. Active cases have also risen to 10,817. For every 100 confirmed cases in the state, 27 are currently infected. Alwar with 2,109 cases has surpassed Jodhpur (2,036) in number of active cases. Jaipur is third in the list with 1,056 cases. With 1,144 new infections, the state’s tally now stands at 39,780. The day also saw the death of 10 persons, taking the casualty toll to 654. Recovered cases have also surged with a total of 28,309 cured patients. Wednesday’s fatalities included three in Pali, Bikaner (2) Karauli (1), Churu (1), Alwar (1) and two from other states. The districts which reported new cases are Alwar (253), Jodhpur (154), Jaipur (102), Udaipur (79), Pali (76), Sikar (57), Barmer (53), Bharatpur (51), Ajmer (47), Kota (45), Bhilwara (29), Sirohi (27), Jalore (24), Rajsamand (24), Sriganganagar (19), Banswara (17), Nagaur (17), Churu (16), Dungarpur (11), Dausa (10), Jhunjhunu (7), Hanumangarh (6), Jhalawar (5), Baran (4), Bundi (3), Sawai Madhopur (3), Karauli (2), Chittorgarh (2) and Pratapgarh (1). In Jaipur, 34 different places reported 102 cases, including Jhotwara (10), Malviya Nagar (10) and Sanganer (8).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/alwar-dist-tops-in-activecases-jaipur-at-position-3/articleshow/77252589.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Wear mask or we raise fine: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has advised owners of sweet shops and other shops in the state to provide free masks to customers on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan. The appeal came four days after he announced that sweet shops would be allowed to remain open on August 2, a day before Raksha Bandhan, despite the Sunday lockdown in place in the state. Amarinder has warned of an increase in the fine amount on violation of mandatory wearing of masks. Among the first states to penalise people who don’t wear face masks in public, Punjab imposes a fine of Rs 500 for each violation. However, with a large number of violations being reported from many districts, Amarinder has said the amount could be hiked if people did not behave responsibly. Deputy commissioners have been asked to advise the owners of sweet shops in their respective districts to give a pair of masks free of cost with the purchase of sweets in order to promote and popularise the use of masks. Similar advisories may also be issued to owners of other shops for giving away free masks on purchase of rakhis, said Amarinder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/wear-mask-or-we-raise-fine-capt/articleshow/77250589.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Lucknow||Two hospitals turn safe houses for PM Modi’s visit in Ayodhya||AYODHYA: The government-run Sriram hospital in Ayodhya and the district hospital in Faizabad will be turned into safe houses for Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his visit on August 5 with specialized doctors, including orthopaedic surgeons, radiologists, general surgeons and anesthetists on standby. The hospitals are being equipped for any exigency with life-support systems and luxury ambulances. Chief medical officer Ghanshyam Singh said, “We sought three life-support systems and mobilization of more ambulances and doctors for PM’s security. We are making both the district hospital, Faizabad, and Sriram Hospital, Ayodhya, as safe houses for the Prime Minister.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/2-hosps-turn-safe-houses-for-pms-visit/articleshow/77251043.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
July 30, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan will buy 12,000 pulse oximeters to beat silent hypoxia in Covid patients||JAIPUR: Battling against silent hypoxia in Covid patients, the health department has decided to use pulse oximeters extensively which can warn in advance about the looming crisis. Aiming to prevent Covid deaths, the state government is taking measures to identify patients whose condition is deteriorating in the early stage by using pulse oximeters. Pulse oximeters are medical devices that monitor the level of oxygen in a patient’s blood and alert the healthcare worker if oxygen levels drop below safe levels allowing rapid intervention. “As of now, we are purchasing 12,000 pulse oximeters,” said health minister Raghu Sharma. The device measures the SpO2 level, which is also known as the oxygen level in the blood. “In Covid patients, there is high risk of silent hypoxia, which means deprivation of oxygen in the body. It is quite dangerous as the level of oxygen dips so silently that a patient does not realize that he is progressing towards silent hypoxia. When it goes beyond dangerous levels such as below 90%, it become a medical emergency. So in such cases, the role of pulse oximeters may prove life-saving,” said Dr Balwant Manda, chief medical health officer (Jodhpur). Despite being the worst-affected Covid district of the state reporting highest number of cases, the mortality rate in Jodhpur is just 1.2%, which is much below than the average state’s mortality rate, which is currently 1.6%. “We have around 1,200 pulse oximeters, almost half of them we have purchased while rest of them are donated. Our teams check the oxygen saturation of people who are at high risk such as those who are having chronic illnesses of kidney, liver, heart and elderly people. The device has proved beneficial in saving people from progressing towards silent hypoxia,” said Dr Manda. In some other parts of the state, where doctors have kept asymptomatic patients under home isolation, such patients have been asked to keep pulse oximeter with them at home. “For those asymptomatic patients, who opted for home isolation, we ask them to buy pulse oximeter and a thermometer first, so that they can monitor his temperature and oxygen saturation regularly. Without pulse oximeter, we do not allow home isolation. If the oxygen saturation drops, the patient under home isolation immediately call health officials,” said a health department official in Jaipur. However, in some areas where a patient cannot afford the cost of buying a pulse oximeter, the health department officials provide them from their side, which the patient has to return so that it will be given to other patients after sanitizing it properly. SMS Hospital doctors too have pointed out the necessity of monitoring oxygen saturation in Covid patients as increased concentration of cytokine inflammatory markers such as interleukin-6 (IL-6) and IL-10 cause acute respiratory distress syndrome in which the level of oxygen in tissues and cells goes down dangerously and causes hypoxia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-to-buy-12000-pulse-oximeters-to-prevent-silent-hypoxia-causing-deaths-in-covid-patients/articleshow/77250587.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
July 30, 2020||Agra||18 Palestinians stranded in India for 4 months seek PM’s help to return home||Agra: At least 18 Palestinians, including a couple in Aligarh, have been left stranded in India for the past four months, ever since a nationwide lockdown was announced and international flights were cancelled in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. These desperate Palestinians are now facing acute financial difficulties as well as mental distress and they still don’t know as to when they would be able to return home to their families. So, they have appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to issue instructions to the competent authorities, including the Ministry of External Affairs and the Ministry of Civil Aviation, to facilitate their return to Gaza Strip - as all their earlier efforts have proved futile.“I have three minor children and they all are in Gaza with my elderly mother,” said Dr Akram Kewidar, who came to India with his wife, Dr Amal al-Wazir, in the beginning of February this year for her Phd work in Aligarh Muslim University (AMU). Dr Akram told TOI that they have spoken to every concerned authority, but no one had given them any positive response. “We are only being advised to wait till the resumption of international flights," he said. He also said that due to the ongoing conflict between Palestine and Israel, even their own government has been unable to extend any assistance to them. He added that they are extremely worried and PM Modi is their only hope. “The government of Palestine in the Israeli-occupied West Bank does not control any airport or border. For decades, Israelis and Palestinians have been locked in a conflict over efforts to create a Palestinian state," he said. “We hope the PM will step in and facilitate our evacuation soon. This effort will further strengthen the age-old India-Palestine friendship,” said Dr Akram.Another 34-year-old Palestinian in Delhi, Dr Tareq MK Mahani, who came to India for a training course on vascular surgery at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, told TOI that he had been stuck here despite finishing the course. He said that he came to India on September 27, last year, and completed his course. He also hoped that the government of India would come to the rescue of others and facilitate their return. When contacted an official of the embassy of the State of Palestine, Marwan Mansi, confirmed that 18 Palestinians were stranded in various parts of the country, including Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Bangalore. He, however, refused to comment on any evacuation plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/18-palestinians-stranded-in-india-for-4-months-seek-pms-help-to-return-home/articleshow/77248113.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
July 30, 2020||Pune||Hotels, district authorities at loggerheads over pending dues||Pune: The district administration and hoteliers are in a stand-off over unpaid dues to the hotels that had accommodated some 700 doctors and nurses on Covid duty since April-end. The city-based hotels (five- and three-star and lower categories providing rooms to Covid-19 frontline healthcare workers) alleged that the district administration owed them unpaid dues worth Rs6-8 crore for the doctors and nurses accommodated in 17 hotels in Pune. The district administration has quoted a pending amount of around Rs4 crore. Industry sources claimed that three star-category hotels together have to be paid dues around Rs2 crore. Sources in the district administration stated that the dues pending were much lower and a letter has been sent to the state government seeking Rs5 crore to clear the pending amount. A senior district administration official told TOI, “Many of these hotels had no facilities when we had taken rooms from them, not even kitchen services, staff and sanitization facilities. The administration and civic body workers provided the doctors and nurses staying there with hot water facilities and cleaning services. However, some of these hotels quoted per night accommodation rates of Rs2,000, which was not acceptable. Later, room rates at Rs2,000 per night were fixed in case of only five star hotels, while lower category hotels were to provide accommodation to frontline workers at Rs500-Rs700-odd per night.” The official said as of now, Rs97 lakh has been paid to some hotels. “This amount was provided by some corporates and industries as per their Corporate social responsibility activity,” the official said. A hotelier owning a 2-star hotel in Pune told TOI that as per the rates decided by the administration, the amount due to him was over Rs40 lakh. Another 4-star hotel source in Shivajinagar said, “Around 50 doctors and nurses stayed here over the past three months, with unpaid dues now amounting to around Rs5-7 lakh.” A representative at a three-star budget hotel in Pune alleged that the facility’s outstanding was Rs30 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hotels-district-authorities-at-loggerheads-over-pending-dues/articleshow/77250677.cms||Neha Madaan
July 30, 2020||Jodhpur||Alwar district tops in active cases, Jaipur at position 3||JAIPUR: The state reported a record 1,144 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, shattering the Monday’s figure of 1,134 infections. It was the fifth day in a row that the state has reported over 1,000 cases in a single day. The major cause of concern is that the average growth rate, which was 3% earlier, has now increased to 3.3%. Active cases have also risen to 10,817. For every 100 confirmed cases in the state, 27 are currently infected. Alwar with 2,109 cases has surpassed Jodhpur (2,036) in number of active cases. Jaipur is third in the list with 1,056 cases. With 1,144 new infections, the state’s tally now stands at 39,780. The day also saw the death of 10 persons, taking the casualty toll to 654. Recovered cases have also surged with a total of 28,309 cured patients. Wednesday’s fatalities included three in Pali, Bikaner (2) Karauli (1), Churu (1), Alwar (1) and two from other states. The districts which reported new cases are Alwar (253), Jodhpur (154), Jaipur (102), Udaipur (79), Pali (76), Sikar (57), Barmer (53), Bharatpur (51), Ajmer (47), Kota (45), Bhilwara (29), Sirohi (27), Jalore (24), Rajsamand (24), Sriganganagar (19), Banswara (17), Nagaur (17), Churu (16), Dungarpur (11), Dausa (10), Jhunjhunu (7), Hanumangarh (6), Jhalawar (5), Baran (4), Bundi (3), Sawai Madhopur (3), Karauli (2), Chittorgarh (2) and Pratapgarh (1). In Jaipur, 34 different places reported 102 cases, including Jhotwara (10), Malviya Nagar (10) and Sanganer (8).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/alwar-dist-tops-in-activecases-jaipur-at-position-3/articleshow/77252587.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Udaipur||Alwar district tops in active cases, Jaipur at position 3||JAIPUR: The state reported a record 1,144 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, shattering the Monday’s figure of 1,134 infections. It was the fifth day in a row that the state has reported over 1,000 cases in a single day. The major cause of concern is that the average growth rate, which was 3% earlier, has now increased to 3.3%. Active cases have also risen to 10,817. For every 100 confirmed cases in the state, 27 are currently infected. Alwar with 2,109 cases has surpassed Jodhpur (2,036) in number of active cases. Jaipur is third in the list with 1,056 cases. With 1,144 new infections, the state’s tally now stands at 39,780. The day also saw the death of 10 persons, taking the casualty toll to 654. Recovered cases have also surged with a total of 28,309 cured patients. Wednesday’s fatalities included three in Pali, Bikaner (2) Karauli (1), Churu (1), Alwar (1) and two from other states. The districts which reported new cases are Alwar (253), Jodhpur (154), Jaipur (102), Udaipur (79), Pali (76), Sikar (57), Barmer (53), Bharatpur (51), Ajmer (47), Kota (45), Bhilwara (29), Sirohi (27), Jalore (24), Rajsamand (24), Sriganganagar (19), Banswara (17), Nagaur (17), Churu (16), Dungarpur (11), Dausa (10), Jhunjhunu (7), Hanumangarh (6), Jhalawar (5), Baran (4), Bundi (3), Sawai Madhopur (3), Karauli (2), Chittorgarh (2) and Pratapgarh (1). In Jaipur, 34 different places reported 102 cases, including Jhotwara (10), Malviya Nagar (10) and Sanganer (8).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/alwar-dist-tops-in-activecases-jaipur-at-position-3/articleshow/77252586.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Lucknow||High alert in UP after terror threat inputs on bhoomi pujan||Lucknow: A high alert has been sounded in Ayodhya, its adjoining districts and other places of religious importance in the state following intelligence inputs of a possible ‘fidayeen’ attack during ‘bhoomi poojan’ of Ram Temple in Ayodhya on August 5. Tight security arrangements will be in place for ‘bhoomi poojan’ which also coincides with the first anniversary of the abrogation of Article 370. Heightened vigil will continue till Independence Day. DGP headquarters has also instructed nine senior officials to camp in districts around Ayodhya. These officials are ADG Ashutosh Pandey in Amethi, ADG Ashok Kumar in Gonda, ADG Ram Kumar in Bahraich, IG Vijay Bhushan in Barabanki, IG Vijay Prakash in Sultanpur, IG AK Rai in Basti, IG Piyush Mordia in Ambedkarnagar, DIG PTC (Unnao) Chandra Prakash in Maharajganj and DIG (administration) RK Bharadwaj in Siddharthnagar. Additional director general (law and order) Prashant Kumar said spirits are very high during historic events such as the one in Ayodhya. “We have instructed all adjoining districts to remain on alert and asked senior officers to monitor the situation in districts adjoining Ayodhya,” he said. “Bakrid, the last Monday of Shrawan and Raksha Bandhan are falling one after the other. So, all the districts should remain vigilant,” he said. Kumar said police chiefs of districts concerned had been directed by the DGP headquarters to conduct regular security drills and carry out checking at all bus and railway stations and district borders. UP Police has also asked district police chiefs of Pilibhit, Lakhimpur Kheri, Bahraich, Shravasti, Balrampur, Sidhharthnagar and Maharajganj bordering Nepal to intensify patrolling and coordinate with Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) counterparts. DIG, Ayodhya, Deepak Kumar said security layers were being prepared as per protocol. “Drones and CCTV cameras have been installed while surveillance networks have been strengthened,” he said. “Verification of all hotels, lodges, guesthouses is underway and entry points to the holy city will be sealed soon,” a senior police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/high-alert-in-up-after-terror-threat-inputs-on-bhoomi-pujan/articleshow/77251013.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Can’t sack fixed-pay workers sans inquiry’||Ahmedabad: A division bench of the Gujarat high court has ruled that the state government cannot sack a contracted or fixed-pay employee without a full-fledged departmental inquiry, however serious the charges may be. With this, it upheld a single-bench’s decision to quash the state government’s termination order with regard to two assistant motor vehicle inspectors, who were dismissed after they were charged with corrupt practices when the anti-corruption bureau sleuths nabbed them allegedly accepting bribes at two check posts on the Gujarat-Rajasthan border in 2014. The state government had filed an appeal, arguing that they were not regular employees but were on fixed-pay contracts, and hence full-fledged departmental proceedings were not required. To this, the HC has said that whenever any charge is levelled and action is found to be stigmatic, a full-scale departmental inquiry deserves to be undertaken irrespective of whether the delinquent was a regular employee or contracted on a fixed salary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cant-sack-fixed-pay-workers-sans-inquiry/articleshow/77249496.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow University, National PG College get max applications in 10 years||LUCKNOW: LU and its only autonomous college—National PG College—have broken their own records by receiving the highest number of application forms in a decade. Two colleges for girls—Isabella Thoburn College and Avadh Girls’ Degree College—have also received a higher number of forms in comparison to previous years. With a large number of students unable to take admissions in other cities in the wake of Covid pandemic, Lucknow University and its three leading associated colleges have come up as the top choice for them. According to authorities, the pandemic has brought about a change in the thinking of students who are in a hurry to take admission in the best available college in the city. The number of forms is expected to spike further as the last date of filling them for all four institutes is not yet over. With a few days left for last date, no.of forms is expected to spike furtherLU and its only autonomous college—National PG College—have broken their own records by receiving the highest number of application forms in a decade. Two colleges for girls—Isabella Thoburn College and Avadh Girls’ Degree College-—have also received a higher number of forms in comparison to previous years. The number of forms is expected to spike further as the last date of filling them for all four institutes is not yet over. “Lucknow University has become the first choice of students in the city and the state. The university has received around 50,000 applications for its various undergraduate and postgraduate courses so far,” said LU spokesperson Durgesh Srivastava. According to Srivastava, students have a great option in LU and need not leave for other cities during a pandemic. The university has come up with the choice-based credit system, complete online application process, and has given a digital push to studies through video conferencing and YouTube channels, he said. Admission coordinator at National PG College Rakesh Jain said, “The last date for application to various courses in our college is August 15 and we have already crossed 10,500 application forms—the highest in a decade. We are expecting that the number will swell as students are in a hurry to get a seat in the best college in the city.” “There is no certainty when the pandemic situation will improve. Students don’t want to take a risk of going miles away from home hence the best institutes in the city are flooded with application forms,” said principal of Avadh Girls’ Degree College Upma Chaturvedi. “We have received an alltime high number of forms—around 900—in comparison to last five years,” she said. IT College principal Vinita Prakash said, “Our last date for applications is August 7 and we have already received around 2,000 forms. The number of applications will further go up, breaking the previous highest number.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-national-pg-college-get-max-applications-in-10-years/articleshow/77251003.cms||Mohita Tewari
July 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Father held for raping minor daughter in Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: A 35-year-old man was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly raping his 14-year-old daughter. The victim is said to be a two months pregnant. The shocking incident came to light when the girl complained of stomach pain and her father took her to a private hospital, where the doctors found she was pregnant. She has been shifted to King George Hospital in Vizag for medical tests. The accused father was arrested after the hospital informed the police about the incident. Inspector Prem Kumar of Fourth Town police station said the accused, along with his daughter and parents, stays near railway new colony area in Vizag city. The girl’s mother died a couple of years ago. Since then, the accused has allegedly been threatening and raping her, police said. The case has been transferred to Disha police station and a case has been registered under POCSO Act and section 376 of the IPC. In a similar incident a few weeks back, Seethanagaram police in Vizianagaram district had arrested a 56-year-old man for allegedly raping his 26-year-old daughter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/father-held-for-raping-minor-daughter/articleshow/77248123.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Ludhiana family gets Sangrur patient’s body||PATIALA: The family of a patient from Ludhiana, who died at Government Rajindra Hospital here on Wednesday, was in for a shock when they discovered that the body sent to their house was not of their family member, but of a Covid patient who had also died at the hospital on the same morning. While, Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra maintained that it was a case of mistaken identity, enquiries carried out by TOI revealed that the bodies had been wrongly tagged, which created the confusion. It was learnt that the body of a patient from Belewal village in Dhuri block of Sangrur district, who had died at the Government Rajendra Hospital around 4am on Wednesday, was wrongly tagged and handed over to the son of the patient from Ludhiana. The patient from Ludhiana had tested negative for Covid. Once the family realised the body was not of the deceased, they dispatched it back to Patiala and went into panic on coming to know that the body was of a Covid patient. In the meantime, the family members of the patient from Sangrur also reached the mortuary and were told that the test report of the patient was still pending. They had to wait till 6 in the evening to get the body. Avtar Singh, a former sarpanch of Belewal village, said they along with the family members reached Patiala around 10am and were told that the Covid report of the patient was still pending. “We continued to wait till 4pm and it was then that we learnt that the body had actually been sent to Ludhiana. Now, the body has finally been handed over to us and we are taking it back to the village,” he told TOI in the evening. A senior resident doctor posted at the mortuary of Government Rajindra Hospital confided that there had been some problem with the tagging of the two bodies, which created the confusion. He said the matter was brought to the notice of the senior authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-family-gets-sangrur-patients-body/articleshow/77250616.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Jaipur||On sidelines of battle for Rajasthan, hint of Ashok Gehlot-Sachin Pilot truce||JAIPUR: Amid the litany of allegations, legal battles and constitutional wrangling that has plunged Rajasthan politics into crisis, both CM Ashok Gehlot and his sacked deputy Sachin Pilot on Wednesday made overtures that appeared to leave a window open for a possible reconciliation. In Jaipur, CM Gehlot while speaking at the small ceremony held at state PCC headquarters to mark the taking over of Govind Singh Dotasra as the new chief of state PCC. Gehlot was unsparing in his criticism of BJP for allegedly orchestrating a plot to topple his government and governor Kalraj Mishra for not convening a special assembly session despite three formal requests from his cabinet.  But speaking at an event in Jaipur marking Dotasra's appointment as the new PCC chief, Gehlot said Congress hadn't slammed the door shut on the dissidents whose revolt triggered the crisis. "All it takes is an unconditional apology to the high command. We will abide by whatever decision the high command takes,” he said, barely a week after a no-hold-barred attack in which he called Pilot "nikamma-nakara (worthless and idle)". While Gehlot suggested all would be forgiven if Pilot and the other 18 dissident MLAs apologised to the Congress high command, the disgruntled former deputy CM took to Twitter to congratulate Govind Singh Dotasra on taking over as PCC chief. He also tweeted birthday greetings to Speaker CP Joshi, against whom he and his loyalists have moved court. श्री @GovindDotasra जी को राजस्थान प्रदेश कांग्रेस कमेटी के अध्यक्ष का पदभार ग्रहण करने पर बधाई।मुझे उम्मीद है की… https://t.co/9t9TOw38uj— Sachin Pilot (@SachinPilot) 1596023200000राजस्थान विधानसभा अध्यक्ष @drcpjoshi जी को जन्मदिवस की हार्दिक बधाई एवं शुभकामनाएं।मैं ईश्वर से आपके उत्तम स्वा… https://t.co/CHcIvOMzUm— Sachin Pilot (@SachinPilot) 1595997201000Addressing party workers, chief minister Ashok Gehlot targeted the BJP for attempting to undermine people’s mandate by horse trading and engaging in toppling game of opposition-ruled state governments. Expressing concern over the state of affairs in the country, Gehlot said, “When Corona is at its peak, the central government in connivance with governors are attempting to destabilize state governments.” But he assured the MLAs and Congress workers that they will not succeeded in their nefarious designs in Rajasthan. He asked the new president to hold a party convention and his government welcomes constructive criticism from the party which will help to improve the functioning of the government. AICC general secretary and Rajasthan in-charge Avinash Pande said, “In the last 70 years, there is no precedent that a governor rejects the recommendation of a majority government for an assembly session.” But this is happening now in Rajasthan. Dotasra, while thanking the party leadership for his appointment, said he would live up to the expectations of farmers, Dalits and youths, adding that he would work to bring the Congress to power again in 2023 state polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/on-sidelines-of-battle-for-raj-hint-of-gehlot-pilot-truce/articleshow/77250638.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Nagpur||Health officer permission for dental clinic not enough: HC||Nagpur: While holding that the health officer isn’t an authority to grant permission for putting any residential building to additional uses, Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court rejected a dentist’s petition challenging the civic body’s notice to his clinic to stop functioning. The notice was issued on ground it was being operated without seeking permission for ‘change of user’ from residential to commercial property. The plea was listed before a bench of Justices Sunil Shukre and Nitin Suryawanshi. Petitioner Dr Gagan Kumar Jain owns the property in Dharampeth from where he is running his dental clinic. Through counsel Kaustubh Deogade, he contended that in spite of grant of permission by NMC health officer, he was issued a show cause notice stating the user of property in question for OPD clinic purposes was without permission. NMC told the petitioner to stop the use of property for running dispensaries and pathological laboratories from residential buildings in residential zones, without seeking change of occupancy from competent authority appointed for the purpose under Development Control Rules (DCR), 2000. According to the petitioner, running of dental practitioners’ dispensaries including pathological laboratories, diagnostic clinics, and polyclinics is a permitted activity in a residential zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/health-officer-permission-for-dental-clinic-not-enough-hc/articleshow/77250622.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana planning to start senior classes in govt schools: Kanwar Pal||CHANDIGARH: After holding back plans for two months in the wake of a rapid increase in Covid cases, the Haryana Education department has once again started planning to open government schools for senior classes. Education minister Kanwar Pal chaired a meeting of officials from education department to explore the possibility of starting government schools for the students of Class X onwards. Interacting with a section of media, he did not indicate any particular date for restarting schools. “We have asked officials to explore possibilities and suggest ways how can we conduct classes while adhering to social distancing. Also, officials will be taking the opinion of parents and health experts,’’ Kanwar said. Since students of government schools come from nearby areas, this would not be a problem, he said. “We will make attendance optional for students,” he said. Rreferring to proposals by private schools, Pal reiterated that government had always allowed private schools to charge tuition fee only. “School managements have also raised the issue of financial crisis leading to delayed payment of salaries and repayment of loans. Our officers are looking into their issues,” said the minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/state-planning-to-start-senior-classes-in-govt-schools-pal/articleshow/77250658.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Addl CS: Hosps can’t deny treatment to any patient||Ludhiana: Hospitals cannot deny entry to any patient, including Covid-19 suspects. And, they cannot keep patients waiting for treatment on the pretext of waiting for novel coronavirus test report, said Punjab additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Anurag Aggarwal. After a 50-year-old businessman of the city, who was Covid-19 positive, died on July 24, his family had alleged that Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) did not give him proper treatment. His son said, “On July 23, my father was tested for Civid-19. The next day, he complained of respiratory problems and we took him to DMCH. He requested the hospital authorities to admit him, but they refused as the test report was awaited. After repeated requests, he was put on oxygen support, but still he was unable to breath. After his report came positive around 4pm, the hospital refused to admit him, saying they don’t have a bed.” “I called up several prominent private hospitals of the city, but everyone said they did not have beds. Eventually, I had to take my father to civil hospital, where he died,” he added.Chief medical officer Rajesh Bagga said, “A notice was issued to DMCH. In its reply, it said they had no bed to accommodate the Covid-19 positive patient. The test report came late and till the time they had accommodated the patient in the flu corner and put him on oxygen support. As soon as his test report came positive, they asked his kin to take him to civil hospital due to unavailability of a bed. A committee is being formed to take the final decision on this.”While speaking with the TOI on phone, Aggarwal said, “No hospital can deny entry or treatment to any patient on the pretext of awaited corona test report. If the patient is symptomatic, the hospital must admit him/her and start treatment so that the life can be saved. Also, people don’t necessarily have to go to civil hospital first, they can go to any hospital for treatment.” On the allegations of the kin of the deceased against DMCH, Aggarwal said, “I am aware of the case. We are checking the matter. Moreover, I don’t think there is any shortage of beds in DMCH.” “We are appointing nodal officers in five districts of Punjab, including Ludhiana, to manage and keep a check on the facilities and arrangements at private hospitals” he added. On releasing a complaint redressal number for such cases, he said Covid-19 helpline numbers are already there and that officials can be approached on these. “I request people to get themselves tested as soon as they find a symptom. Usually it is seen that people are reluctant to get themselves tested unless their condition gets serious.” Aggarwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/addl-cs-hosps-cant-deny-treatment-to-any-patient/articleshow/77248132.cms||Payal Dhawan
July 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana Covid fatality rate tops state, national average||Ludhiana: The Covid-19 situation in Ludhiana remains grim as the case fatality rate (CFR) for the district continues to be higher than both state as well as national average.According to the government’s health bulletin for Tuesday, Ludhiana has a CFR of 3%, which is higher than that of the state at 2%. According to a recent data, the CFR for the country is around 2.30%.Not only CFR, the district has also the lowest recovery percentage of 64%, compared to the state’s 68% and the national recovery rate at 65%.Ludhiana district has witnessed 22 deaths in the last seven days, which is 30% of the total deaths in state (73) during the same period, whereas on July 22, the number of deaths in the district in the preceding seven days was 15 and CFR 2%.Another alarming fact emerging from the recent data is that Ludhiana district has witnessed 735 new cases in the last seven days, which is highest for any district of the state, with Patiala at distant second with 402 cases. Also, the district has highest number of 903 active cases, which is again more than any other district. Patiala has 637 such cases.According to the data, the doubling rate for Ludhiana — which is the number of days it would take for the count of cases to double based on the last seven days’ growth rate — is 15 days, which around a week ago was 18.Going by various indicators, the Covid-19 scenario is moving from bad to worse and social activists say that precautionary measures and pandemic norms need to be implemented strictly.“The number of people one sees without masks in public place is large and even social distancing is being ignored. Though the administration keeps coming up with fresh orders, those seem to be on paper only. It is high time that authorities act tough against violators, including those in posh colonies and markets,” said Narinder Singh, a social activist from Pakhowal road. Health department officials agree to the problem. “The CFR in Ludhiana district was 2.35% last week, which is 3% now. We are taking all steps to improve the situation over the next one week,” said civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-covid-fatality-rate-tops-state-national-average/articleshow/77248119.cms||Shariq Majeed
July 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Apex Council meet on August 5, water sharing top on agenda||HYDERABAD: To resolve the issues over sharing of water between Telangana and AP, the Union ministry of water resources has decided to hold an Apex Council meeting on August 5. The Apex Council meeting could be convened as per the AP Reorganisation Act-2014 to resolve various issues between the two states. Discussions will be held on the jurisdiction of Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) and Godavari River Management Board (GRMB), detailed project reports of new projects by state governments to KRMB and GRMB for appraisal and sanction by the Apex Council. Both the state governments wrote to KRMB and GRMB, alleging new irrigation projects were taken up without approval of the Apex Council and respective boards. The boards had earlier asked Telangana and AP to submit reports of all the projects that were taken up post-bifurcation of united AP. Establishing a mechanism for determination of share of Krishna and Godavari waters between the two states will also be discussed. Telangana has been alleging that injustice was done to the state on allocation of its share in the two rivers, especially in Krishna waters. AP has been raising the issue of shifting of Krishna board office to Vijayawada from Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/apex-council-meet-on-aug-5-water-sharing-top-on-agenda/articleshow/77249511.cms||Koride Mahesh
July 30, 2020||Varanasi||Gorakhnath temple soil to be used in Bhoomi Poojan||Gorakhpur: The Vishwa Hindu Parishad took the soil from Gorakhnath temple on Wednesday for being used in the Bhoomi Poojan of Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5. Gorakhnath temple is a revered holy shrine of the Nath monastic order. Mahant Avaidyanath of Gorakhnath Math, who was four-time MP from Gorakhpur and was guru of CM Yogi Adityanath, played a leading role in Ram Janambhoomi movement and founded the Shri Ramjanmabhoomi Mukti Yagna Samiti, a committee to liberate Lord Ram’s birthplace, in 1984. Sah Prant Sanyojak of VHP’s Mahanagar unit Durgesh Tripathi said the soil from Gorakhnath temple will be put in the foundation of the Ram temple in Ayodhya during Bhoomi Pujan on August 5. Tripathi, VHP secretary Amarjeet and Mahanagar secretary Mukund Shukla led a delegation to Gorakhnath temple and took soil from the temple administration and offered prayers at the temple. All those present were wearing face shields. Soil and water from other holy shrines in Gorakhpur will also be sent to Ayodhya. Mahanagar convener Ashok Gupta has been entrusted the responsibility of appealing people to hold Bhajan Keertan on August 3 and 4 and light diyas at home on August 5. Meanwhile, MLA from Haraiya constituency in Basti, Ajay Singh wrote a letter to CM Yogi requesting to invite three families for Bhoomi Poojan. “Satyavan Singh and Ramchandar Yadav of the area were martyred during Kar Seva in Ayodhya in 1990, while Jaishraj was injured and is still alive. I have requested that an invitation be sent to the families,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gorakhnath-temple-soil-to-be-used-in-bhoomi-poojan/articleshow/77245616.cms||Arjumand Bano
July 30, 2020||Lucknow||Trust to invite Ram bhakts for ‘nirman yajna’ in Ayodhya||LUCKNOW: The Ram Janmabhoomi Teerath Kshetra Trust said on Wednesday that it will organise a ‘nirman yajna’ (construction yajna) in Ayodhya in the future and invite all Ram bhakts to it. Trust general secretary Champat Rai said the decision has been taken since devotees cannot come to Ayodhya for the bhoomi pujan of Ram temple in the wake of Corona pandemic. “Trust had planned to invite all Ram bhakts from across the country to Ayodhya for bhoomi pujan. Many of them had played a key role in the temple movement since 1984 and wanted to witness the historic ceremony on August 5, but the plan was shelved because of the pandemic,” Rai told TOI. Trust has invited a select gathering of 200 people, including PM Narendra Modi and senior BJP leaders like Lal Krishna Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi. Trust is hopeful that the foundation laying of the temple by PM Modi would expedite the project. Ram temple is expected to be built in the next 3 to 3.5 years. Rai, also the vice-president of Vishwa Hindu Parishad, has appealed to the people not to visit Ayodhya for bhoomi pujan and instead watch the ceremony live on television. Trust secretary has asked Indian citizens as well as NRIs to perform puja between 11.30am and 12.30pm and light diyas in their homes in the evening on August 5 to celebrate the historic occasion. “People should also take a pledge to make donations for the Ram temple as per their ability,” he added. Last week, Rai had termed Ram temple bhoomi pujan as the most significant occasion of Independent India. VHP sources said its cadres have been told make arrangements in every city and villages where people can gather while following Covid protocols and watch the ground breaking ceremony live on TV. They have also been asked to use social media platforms to ensure that the ceremony is watched in every household.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/trust-to-invite-ram-bhakts-for-nirman-yajna-in-ayodhya/articleshow/77251020.cms||Pankaj Shah
July 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Masks’ export gets nod, but under quota system||Ludhiana: In a big opportunity for the two- and three-ply mask manufacturers of the city, directorate general of foreign trade (DGFT) has allowed export of four crore masks per month under the quota system. Besides this, export of 20 lakh medical goggles per month has also been allowed, while the face shields’ export has been exempted from conditions.Though the eligibility criteria for the exports are yet to be finalised, the DGFT issued a notification on Tuesday evening. City’s mask manufacturers are happy, but say the government should not limit the export and allow it unrestricted. Vinod Thapar, chairman of Knitwear Club, said, “We welcome the decision, but quota system is not going to help the manufacturers. The quota of four crore units per month of both mask types is not sufficient, as this is a very low priced item and every manufacturer has the capability to make lakhs of pieces per day. If someone takes an export order, he will not supply less than 25-30 lakh pieces in a single consignment as the shipment cost will be very high if the quantity is less. So, capping the export is not a wise decision.”Harish Kairpal, finance secretary of the Knitwear Club, said, “It is too early to say anything about the decision as no eligibility and selection criteria have been notified by the DGFT. We can come to a conclusion only when the guidelines are issued. And in case export criteria same as that for PPE suits are fixed, it will be of no help. Due to tough formalities, not even one exporter had qualified for PPE suits’ export last month.”On the other hand, face shield manufacturers are happy as all restrictions have been lifted from export. Bimal Ahuja, a face shield manufacturer, said, “It is a big relief for us, as due to tough competition and huge oversupply, the rates in local markets had gone down drastically, causing huge losses. But now we can try and export our product to the countries where these can fetch better rates.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/masks-export-gets-nod-but-under-quota-system/articleshow/77248146.cms||Mohit Behl
July 30, 2020||Goa||Goa sees 3 more deaths, state’s toll climbs to 39||PANAJI: The state’s Covid-19 death toll rose to 39 on Wednesday after three persons succumbed to it on Tuesday and Wednesday. A 71-year-old man from Sada, Vasco, who was cured of Covid and shifted to a care centre at MPT, died of a myocardial infarction on Wednesday. This is the first case in the state of a patient dying immediately after recovery. A 51-year-old man from Ucassaim who was brought dead to the North Goa district hospital, Mapusa, tested positive for the novel coronavirus.  The state has seen at least five such cases, in which persons have tested positive after their death. The third death was that of a 43-year-old woman from Margao, who suffered an intracerebellar bleed and was admitted at a private hospital in Margao. She later tested positive for Covid-19, and died on Tuesday. The state on Wednesday also saw its active Covid tally rise to 1,656 after the detection of 202 new cases. Areas that reported significant hikes are under the jurisdiction of the Vasco urban health centre and Chimbel primary health centre. Santa Cruz MLA Antonio Fernandes said that cases have risen in Indiranagar, as well as in two other wards of his constituency. Meanwhile in Siridao, two school students tested positive for the virus — the source of the infection hasn’t yet been found. The state capital saw three more persons testing positive on Wednesday, taking its tally to 61. One case was reported from a building close to the Panaji fish market, and the other two were from a building near the market. Mapusa and Porvorim also saw three fresh cases each. A health officer said that the Porvorim cases were detected in Socorro, Betim, and the Porvorim market. In nearby Saligao, too, a person tested positive. Health office, primary health centre, Candolim, Dr Roshan Nazareth, said that a tourist from Andhra Pradesh who came to Goa in a group tested positive. “We have instructed his friends to isolate themselves,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-sees-3-more-deaths-states-toll-climbs-to-39/articleshow/77250667.cms||Bindiya Chari
July 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Agriculture sector gets lion’s share in AP’s new credit plan||VIJAYAWADA: The state government has set Rs 2,51,600 crore as annual credit target for 2020-21. This is 9.78% more than the credit target set for the preceding year. The decision was taken at the 211th State Level Bankers Committee (SLBC) meeting, held at the camp office of chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy on Wednesday. The meeting also set the target for agriculture loans for 2020-21 at Rs 1,28,660 crore, which is more than the half of the total loan and 11.9% more than the previous year’s credit target. The chief minister said the government is determined to implement zero-interest loans for farmers in time and asked the bankers to submit the details. “We have cleared the dues of the previous government. The zero-rate interest due of farmers for this year will also be paid. The government is going ahead with setting up of godowns, grading and storage facilities along with food processing units, which would need bankers’ support,” he said. In the next two months YSR Cheyutha and YSR Asara schemes will be launched that would benefit over one crore women. YSR Cheyutha would provide Rs 18,750 per annum to SC, ST, BC and Minorities women in the age group of 45 to 60 for a period of four years, while YSR Asara would help 90 lakh women self-help groups. The state will spend Rs 11,000 crore annually on these two schemes aimed at providing self-reliance, the chief minister said adding that the two schemes will bring a change in the rural economy. The targets fixed for various sectors include, Rs 39,600 crore for MSMEs that is a 10% hike over the previous year’s target, Rs 1,900 crore for education loans, Rs 9,710 crore for housing, Rs 410 crore for social infrastructure, Rs 454 crore for renewable energy, Rs 3,400 crore from mechanisation in agriculture sector. The priority sector gets Rs 1.88 lakh crore, which is a hike of 10.88% compared to the previous year. The bankers said they have reached 99.42% target for 2019-20 by providing Rs 2,27,882 crore in loan and in agriculture they have reached 99.13% target by giving Rs 1,13,997 crore as loan against the target of 1.15 lakh crore. “Our government is giving priority to farmers, women and healthcare,” said deputy chief minister Dharmana Krishna Das. The officials have also sought the bankers’ help for irrigation sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/agriculture-sector-gets-lions-share-in-aps-new-credit-plan/articleshow/77248151.cms||Gopi Dara
July 30, 2020||Nagpur||Ranchi man booked for cheating Nagpur woman of Rs 1 cr||Nagpur: Bajaj Nagar police have booked one Rajesh Singh, a resident of Ranchi, for allegedly duping a city woman of Rs1 crore after marrying her. Police also said Rajesh Singh had also duped film producer and director Vipul Shah of Rs5 crore in the past. Police said the accused Singh (42) had met Renuka (46) before 2012. Renuka (a physically challenged and cancer survivor), who was married then, divorced her husband and married Singh in 2012. Singh was then staying in Nagpur and was frequently travelling to Ranchi under the pretext of business purpose. Gaining her confidence, Singh allegedly convinced Renuka to sell her property and took Rs1 crore from her. All well went for a couple of years and in 2016, Renuka learnt that Singh had married another woman in Ranchi. Renuka was shocked to know that Singh had married the other woman in 2014 itself and was frequently shuttling between Ranchi and Nagpur households. When Renuka objected, Singh left her and shifted to Ranchi. Renuka had lodged a complaint with Rana Pratap Nagar police station in 2016, but the police did nothing. Renuka filed an FIR against Singh at Bajaj Nagar police station early this year. Initially, the police conducted an inquiry and finally on Tuesday they booked Singh (a resident of Sattarka Palace, near Durga Mandir, Armande village in Ranchi) under sections 420, 494 and 506 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ranchi-man-booked-for-cheating-nagpur-woman-of-rs1cr/articleshow/77250685.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Surat||Jalalpore, Navsari pounded in 10 hrs||Surat: It poured cats and dogs in Jalalpore taluka of Navsari district on Wednesday when 135 mm rainfall pounded the region in 10 hours between 6 am and 4 pm. Navsari too got drenched with 86 mm rainfall in the same period. In Vaslad district, Vapi received 40 mm and Dharampur received 18 mm, said Navsari flood control room officials. In Dang district, Vaghai received 25 mm and Ahwa received 20 mm rainfall. According to Narmada Water Resources department, South Gujarat’s 13 dams are filled with 56.13 percent water as on Wednesday. Central Water Commission (CWC) has issued advisory on Hydro Meteorological situation for Lower Narmada, Damanganga, Tapi and independent basins in South Gujarat. “Lower Narmada, Damanganga,Tapi and independent basins are expected to receive light or moderate rainfall at isolated places in the next 48 hours beginning Wednesday evening,” CWC advisory said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/jalalpore-navsari-pounded-in-10-hrs/articleshow/77248192.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Mangaluru||Residents fret over poor hygiene at crematorium||Mangaluru: The premises of Boloor crematorium, which has an electric furnace for the cremation of Covid-19 victims is in a pathetic condition. Clothes, flowers and blood stained cotton are strewn around the bin kept inside the crematorium. A local resident expressed his shock at the premises being so poorly maintained in the midst of a raging pandemic. All other bodies are cremated manually in the traditional pyre. Activist Franklin Monteiro, president of Rashtriyavadi Christara Vedike, told TOI that he was shocked to see the dust bin inside the crematorium filled with clothes used on bodies (not Covid-19 victims), flowers and other items. "I understood from those working inside the crematorium that the premises are not cleaned regularly. They have not cleaned the premises for the past one week. Authorities concerned should consider the issue seriously since the crematorium is located in a thickly populated area and there are many industries too," Monteiro said. "There is no action despite repeated requests," them," he rued. When contacted MCC environment engineer Madhu S Manohar said they had cleared the waste dumped inside. "Our workers have been collecting waste from the crematorium once a week. Currently, Covid-19 victims too are being brought to the crematorium. Hence, the waste from other dead bodies was left lying there," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/residents-fret-over-poor-hygiene-at-crematorium/articleshow/77249169.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Nagpur||Forced to buy veggies at high prices, claim c-zone residents||Nagpur: Residents of Shakti Nagar containment zone on Wednesday protested against exorbitant prices of vegetables and other staples being supplied through NMC employees who source it from vendors outside the area. They have also submitted a complaint to municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe alleging that they were being forced to buy poor quality vegetables at exorbitant prices. Speaking to TOI, Shakti Nagar residents also complained that they were not getting access to essential items on time. Shakti Nagar was declared a containment zone after four persons from the area tested Covid positive in mid-July, said a resident Sumit Tate. Being a containment zone, the residents were told to buy all essentials, including vegetables, from NMC employees. The residents pointed out that while in regular market, potatoes are being sold at Rs25 a kg, the same are being supplied by NMC employees for Rs40/kg. “Similarly, brinjals available in regular market for Rs40/kg are being sold here for Rs50/kg. A kg of tomatoes are sold here at Rs60, which is beyond our reach,” claimed Swati Makode (name changed on request). Residents claimed that they get a chance to bargain when they go to market. “We can’t do that anymore as the prices are fixed. The NMC should provide us vegetables at par with the market prices, if not at a subsidized rate,” the residents added. This apart, everyday we have to throw 25% of vegetables in garbage due to poor quality, they rued. In the complaint to the civic chief, the residents also alleged misbehaviour by zonal officials. On Tuesday, a woman resident was abused and threatened after she went outside the containment zone for purchasing grocery. Instead of abusing her, the official could have been polite with her, they said. Officials from Nehru Nagar zone, under which the area comes, claimed that the residents have been demanding round-the-clock manpower to supply vegetables or other essential items. They also demand vegetables at prices lower than that in the market, which is not possible, clarified the officials. “The residents say vendors are selling the veggies at exorbitant prices, but the fact is prices have gone up in the recent past,” said the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/forced-to-buy-veggies-at-high-prices-claim-c-zone-residents/articleshow/77249516.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 30, 2020||Vadodara||Engine with 2 coaches detach from train near Vadodara station||Vadodara: Passengers travelling in Ahmedabad-Mumbai Karnavati Express were shocked when the engine of the train along with two other coaches got detached from the rest of the train while it was on the move near Vadodara railway station on Wednesday morning.The coaches of the special Karnavati Express (02934) headed towards Mumbai got uncoupled near Vadodara around 6.50 am. According to railway officials, the train had departed from Vadodara railway station at 6.45 am. Just five minutes later, the coaches of the train uncoupled separating the engine and two forward coaches from the rest of the train. “The incident occurred between Vadodara railway station and Vishwamitri railway station,” said Khemraj Meena, public relations officer of Vadodara railway division.“There were 20 coaches attached to the engine. Two coaches remained with the engine while 18 other coaches got separated due to uncoupling,” said Meena, adding that the engine had moved away for nearly 22-23 metres before it stopped.The guard who was in the last coach of the train alerted both the loco pilot and control room of the railway division after which officials rushed to the spot. “Within 35 minutes, the train was coupled again and resumed its forward journey. It departed from the spot at 7.25 am,” he said.Railway officials have ordered an inquiry into the incident. “Although it could have not resulted into a major accident but we are probing the issue to find out the reason behind uncoupling which could be due to brake binding or track problem or any other technical reason,” said the railway official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/engine-with-2-coaches-detach-from-train-near-vadodara-station/articleshow/77247585.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Agra||Gram pradhan found charred to death under suspicious circumstances in Agra||The gram pradhan of Rasoolpur village under Etmadpur police station was found charred to death in a hut under suspicious circumstances on Wednesday morning. Family members of the victim, identified as Harikrishna, alleged he was murdered.According to Harikrishna’s daughter Rachna, “On Tuesday afternoon, my father left home with two men, and didn’t return home. We later found he had been murdered and set on fire in the hut.” Atul Sonkar, the CO of Etmadpur, said, “Police have lodged an FIR and are probing the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/gram-pradhan-found-charred-to-death-under-suspicious-circumstances-in-agra/articleshow/77248142.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Hyderabad||HC notice to Telangana, Centre on private hospitals’ charges||HYDERABAD: A day after directing the state to ensure strict implementation of ICMR guidelines to tackle the pandemic effectively, the high court on Wednesday issued notices to Telangana, Centre, ICMR, IRDA and drug control authorities for inaction on private hospitals. The court asked them to respond to a petitioner for failing to act against private hospitals charging exorbitantly from Covid-19 patients. Petitioner J Venudhar Reddy, a resident of Nagole, said the common man was being hit on two counts — one, these hospitals were crippling the common man with high rates and secondly, lack of insurance and spurious drugs. Assuring the petitioner that the government had promised to come out with a GO to rein in the private hospitals, a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said this petition should be clubbed with a batch of Covid-related PILs and posted the case to August 13. Venudhar also sought inclusion of complete costs for diagnosis and treatment of Covid-19 under various insurance schemes, including Aarogyasri. His counsel Malipeddi Srinivas Reddy told the court about the plight of people caught in the pandemic. The judges told him that chief secretary Somesh Kumar on Tuesday promised the court that he would bring in the required GOs to rein in private hospitals within one week in the backdrop of the Centre’s guidelines empowering the states to wield the baton. The bench had directed the CS to appear before the court on August 13 again to brief the progress made in respect of controlling the charges in private hospitals and also about many issues related to controlling the pandemic. The bench, while hearing another PIL filed by Siva Ganesh Karnati from Uppal, sought to know from the government the number of physically challenged people affected by coronavirus, including the number of deaths. Special secretary Divya Devarajan of the disabled welfare department was present before the court. The bench directed her to ascertain whether any correlation exists between the immune system and physiology of a physically challenged person. “In case, a correlation between the two exists, then explain the steps the government is taking to strengthen the immunity levels of the persons with disabilities,” the judges asked her. She told the judges that the department has Rs 3.5 crore funds to cater to the needs of persons with disabilities. “We have kept Rs 2 crore ready with our district officers to meet any urgent need,” she said. At this point, the bench asked her to file a detailed report by August 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-notice-to-t-centre-on-pvt-hosps-charges/articleshow/77251593.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
July 30, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh CM assures no lockdown in hill state||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Wednesday said there will be no lockdown in the state. The CM’s statement came on a day there were demands by the CPM and industries not to impose a lockdown, given the repercussions it would have on the state apple sector and economy. He said the state government was working under a system to deal with Covid-19 and containment zones had been created in areas more affected by the virus. “Such areas are being sealed to prevent the further spread of coronavirus infection. It will not be practical to impose a lockdown in the state,” he said. In an informal conversation with media after Suresh Kashyap took over as BJP state president, Thakur said the third phase of unlock was about to begin. “In Unlock III, the state government will work under the instructions of the Union ministry of home affairs,” he said. In response to a question, he hit out at the Congress, saying it was giving unsolicited advice to the state government as if it had handled the pandemic before. He said the Congress, by ignoring the principle of social distancing, was taking Covid lightly. He said this kind of behavior by the opposition could prove to be a setback to the government’s efforts. He said the Congress could find it difficult if the BJP also started making statements on the lines of the Congress itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/cm-assures-no-lockdown-in-hill-state/articleshow/77250672.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Jaipur||Gehlot blinks, guv has his way on 21-day notice||Jaipur: Blinking first in its battle of attrition with governor Kalraj Mishra over convening the assembly at short notice, the Ashok Gehlot government on Wednesday settled for a special House session from August 14 instead of July 31, as originally demanded, after Raj Bhavan returned three cabinet proposals in six days. Governor Mishra accepted the cabinet’s revised proposal — its fourth — late in the evening and instructed the authorities to make arrangements for the special session with adequate protection against Covid-19. State parliamentary affairs minister Shanti Dhariwal told TOI, “We had sent our first proposal on July 23. Treating that as the starting point, we now meet the required notice period for the House to convene from August 14.” Sources in Congress said all MLAs on Gehlot’s side would remain corralled in the Jaipur hotel where they have been staying till the House session. The endgame came after another roller-coaster day that seemed to be heading towards a stalemate until a meeting between the CM and the governor in the afternoon set the stage for a resolution of the dispute. “The ‘love letter’ (governor’s correspondence) has arrived. I am going to have tea with him and ask him what he wants. But you need not worry, our government is stable,” Gehlot said at an event marking Govind Singh Dotasra’s appointment as the new PCC chief. “The governor’s role is just to sign; the file goes and comes back with his signature. For the first time, a governor has raised questions like this...I will make up for your loss (of time) with interest, do not worry.” While returning the cabinet’s third proposal earlier in the day, the governor had said, “If the government has taken a decision to call the assembly session deviating from the general rule, under what difficult and extreme circumstances has it been done?” The communication from Mishra ended with a reiteration of the main condition in his “three-point advice” on Monday, “It would be proper to call a routine assembly session like the monsoon session with a notice of 21 days.” In his caveat for an assembly session at short notice, the governor had said the only way a special assembly session could be justified without 21 days’s notice was if the government explicitly stated it wanted to go for a floor test. The Gehlot cabinet had mentioned in all its proposals that it wanted a special session to discuss the ongoing pandemic, take stock of the state’s finances and pass some bills. On the governor’s conditions for a trust vote and proper social distancing inside the House, the government said these requirements were best left for the Speaker and the business advisory committee (BAC) of the assembly to decide. “Deciding the House’s agenda has always been the prerogative of the BAC. There are four bills and eight ordinances that need to be tabled. We want to discuss Covid-19 and the financial condition of the state. All these can be brought up once the House assembles and the BAC meets,” Dhariwal said. Soon after the announcement, Speaker CP Joshi, too, paid a courtesy visit to the governor. Sources said the speaker assured the governor of proper safety measures in the assembly in view of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-blinks-guv-has-his-way-on-21-day-notice/articleshow/77250597.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 30, 2020||Ludhiana||7 booked for strangulating man||TNNLudhiana: The police booked seven miscreants for strangulating to death a man after heated arguments at Baliewal village in Koom Kalan on Wednesday.The deceased – 42-year-old Dara Singh – worked as a lock repair mechanic.The accused are: Sagar, Gobinda, both of Jandiala, Gurmail Singh, Baljeet Singh Bhulekha, both of Baliyewal village, and three unidentified ones.In his police complaint, Bahadur Singh of Muhalla Himmat Nagar in Samrala, who is the younger brother of the deceased, said, “I along with Dara Singh had gone to Baliyewal village for our uncle’s funeral. Our other relatives, including Sagar and Gobinda along with their accomplices, were also there.” The complainant said around 1.30pm Wednesday he saw all of them arguing with his elder brother. When he went there to stop them, they started beating them up.Bahadur Singh told police that the accused assaulted his brother brutally and he lost his consciousness. The accused then ran away from the spot. When the complainant, along with his nephew, took Dara Singh to civil hospital in Koom Kalan, the doctors declared him dead. He then informed the police. The body was shifted to civil hospital for post-mortem and the accused booked under sections 302 (murder), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the IPC.Police said the accused are on the run. “After the identified accused are arrested, they will be questioned about the three unidentified ones,” said a cop.Sources in police said the accused and Dara Singh were playing cards when heated arguments ensued. “As tempers frayed, the accused caught hold of Dara Singh and strangulated him. His brother too received injuries while trying to save him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/7-booked-for-strangulating-man/articleshow/77248136.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Agra||Married couple found hanging from tree in Etah district||A couple who got married in February this year, were found dead in Nagla Bhura village under Awagadh police limits of Etah districton Wednesday. Identified as Santosh Singh and Shivani, they were found hanging from a tree. Based on the written complaint of Shivani’s father, police filed a case of dowry death against her in-laws. SP (Etah) Sunil Kumar Singh said, “Prima facie it seems the victims committed suicide over some family dispute. A probe is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/married-couple-found-hanging-from-tree-in-etah-district/articleshow/77248161.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Lucknow||Tribal collects Sangam water for Ayodhya||PRAYAGRAJ: VHP leaders collected soil and water from Sangam — the confluence of Ganga, Yamuna and mythical Saraswati — amidst chanting of Vedic mantras and slokas on Wednesday for Bhoomi Pujan of Ram temple at Ayodhya on August 5. A man from the Scheduled Tribe collected Sangam water for bhoomi pujan in accordance with VHP’s stress on ending caste and class system from the society. A three-member delegation would take the sacred soil and water to Ayodhya on Thursday. VHP spokesman Ashwani Mishra told TOI on Wednesday, “A group of VHP leaders, including VHP’s Dharmacharya Sampark Pramukh Shambhu, and Prant Sangathan Mantri Mukesh Kumar and Meja resident Sanju Lal Adivasi collected the sacred soil and water from Sangam while following Vedic traditions on Wednesday morning.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/tribal-collects-sangam-water-for-ayodhya/articleshow/77251004.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Varanasi||As Rafale jets land, village of wing commander celebrates||Varanasi: With the landing of Rafale fighter jets at the Ambala base of Indian Air Force, the natives of Bakwa village of Bansdih area in Ballia district celebrated by gathering near the parental house of wing commander Manish Singh—one of the five pilots who brought the first batch of five Rafale jets to India. At his residence, the mood was festive. Since morning, scores of villagers gathered outside his house where his grandfather Punyadeo Singh, father Madan Singh, who are also ex-servicemen, and mother Urmila Singh were present. Other relatives of Singh were also seen eagerly waiting for the landing of Rafale jets. As the Rafale jets landed at 3.10 pm, grand celebrations began in the village. Residents burst firecrackers and offered sweets to each other. Singh’s family members shared ancedotes of him with the villagers gather outside their place. Elated to see the landing of Rafale jets at Ambala on television screen, Urmila said, “It’s a matter of pride not only for our family but also for our village, Ballia and the entire country. I don’t have words to express my feeling.” Singh’s cousin sister Anjali said, “Our brother has brought Rafale jets as Rakhi gifts for us.” His father and grandfather wished for an even brighter for him. Following the celebrations, a special puja was organized outside Singh’s house in the evening. Bakwa village boasts of a number of armed forces personnel. Arun Singh, a local, said that most of the families in the village have at least one member in the armed forces and several have also martyred for the country in the past. Singh added yet another feather of glory in the cap of Bakwa, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/as-rafale-jets-land-village-of-wing-commander-celebrates/articleshow/77245659.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
July 30, 2020||Goa||IT dept to make startup dossier for prospective business opportunity||Panaji: The department of information and technology is collecting information from certified Goan startups about the sectors in which they operate as part of a Startup Dossier that the startup promotion cell (SPC) is preparing. The Startup Dossier will be circulated to government departments, industry associations and all stakeholders, the department said. The department is also gathering inputs from startups for the new Goa Startup Policy 2020 as the existing policy expires this year. “This will be done to achieve dual purpose of spreading awareness of Goa certified startups and generate business opportunities for the startups,” an official said. The SPC has already begun work on the draft Goa Startup Policy, which is expected to be released before year-end. One of the main focus of the revamped startup policy is to ease public procurement norms in tenders to allow startups to participate in government contracts. The IT department, an official said, wants to enable various government departments and corporations to tap Goan startups to source their products, services and solutions. “GTA is the only association that has the data about Goa’s entire startup ecosystem and the government must consider GTA as part of the initial discussions,” president of Goa Technology Association (GTA), Mangirish Salelkar, said adding that he was not in the loop about the Startup Dossier. The SPC is the nodal agency for implementing and operationalising the revamped policy and has been tasked with supporting Goa’s startups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/it-dept-to-make-startup-dossier-for-prospective-business-opportunity/articleshow/77250756.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||CS, DGP off to Delhi to shortlist names||Gandhinagar: Chief secretary Anil Mukim and director general of police (DGP) Shivanand Jha will be in Delhi this week to short-list a panel of three police officers for the post of DGP. They will meet officials of the ministry of home affairs (MHA) and UPSC. Mukim and Jha will leave for Delhi on Thursday evening. Key sources in the state government said that the names of six IPS officers have been sent to the central government for approval as possible successors to DGP Jha. “After discussions with home ministry and UPSC officials, the chief secretary will return on the afternoon of July 31 and inform the CM of the panel selected by the UPSC and MHA. The CM will then approve one of the three names for the DGP’s post,” sources said. The six officers the state government recommended are Rakesh Asthana (1984 batch), director general, bureau of civil aviation, New Delhi; A K Singh (1985 batch), director general, National Security Guard (NSG); Ashish Bhatia (1985 batch), police commissioner, Ahmedabad; T S Bisht (1985 batch), director general of police, civil defence and home guard; Keshav Kumar (1986 batch), special director, anti-corruption bureau and Vinod Mall (1986 batch), DGP, police reforms. Key sources said, “Rakesh Asthana and Ashish Bhatia are the only two real contenders. The state government is inclined to appoint Ashish Bhatia, but nobody knows what PM Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah have in mind. Asthana is close to the PM, so we will have to wait until an announcement.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cs-dgp-off-to-delhi-to-shortlist-names/articleshow/77249526.cms||Kapil Dave
July 30, 2020||Pune||Waste plant resumes ops||Pune: The city’s lone incinerator for Covid-19 and general niomedical waste has started operations after two months of repairs. The plant had broken down on May 27 after being overwhelmed by the volume of plastic waste generated as a result of the pandemic. The plant operator said it would take another few days for the facility to reach full capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/waste-plant-resumes-ops/articleshow/77250687.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Delhi||North corporation to hike trade licence rates to bridge the fund gap||NEW DELHI: The standing committee of North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Wednesday approved a proposal for enhancing fees to grant or renew licences for factories, general trade and storage by two to four times and bring these on a par with the rates of South Delhi Municipal Corporation. It has also accepted the recommendations of Municipal Valuation Committee-III partially and accepted changes in the “use” factor for rented or commercial properties, guesthouses, barat ghar, industries etc. while calculating property taxes, which will lead to a substantial increase in the same from the next financial year. Following these proposed increases, the corporation will get a revenue of Rs 125 crore annually. This will help in financing development work, which are almost put on hold due to the funds crunch, argued an official. The proposals are yet to be approved by the corporation House, he added. For a fresh factory licence, the application fees may become Rs 1,000 instead of Rs 550, while the registration fee is to increase depending on the power load consumption of a factory instead of the current fixed charge of Rs 2,000. For the factories using 6-15 horsepower (hp), the registration fees will be Rs 4,000; for 16-50hp, Rs 25,000; and for above 50hp, Rs 50,000. For trade and storage licences, the fees are determined on the basis of the area and the location of the premises. In A & B categories, the proposed fee is Rs 3,450 instead of Rs 500. In C & D categories, the fee will be Rs 2,300 instead of Rs 500. The maximum amount can go up to Rs 57,000 in the first two categories, up to Rs 46,000 in C&D, and up to Rs 34,500 in E, F, G and H. The north corporation, however, doesn’t have any area in A & B categories. In case of property taxes, the annual value of a property is determined by six factors — unit area value per square metre, unit area, age, use, structure and occupancy. A change in any factor will change the annual value and consequently the tax liability. For business, commercial or industrial units lying vacant, the use factor has been changed to four from two, and irrespective of area category, they will fall under D category. For rented properties in non-residential or residential areas, the occupancy factor changes from one to two. For banquet halls and barat ghars, it will be six instead of four, and for guesthouses and lodges, it will be two and for the rest, three. For telecom towers, it has been increased from two to four, and for entertainment and recreational clubs, swimming pools, cinema halls and malls, from three to four.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/n-corpn-to-hike-trade-licence-rates-to-bridge-the-fund-gap/articleshow/77250700.cms||Vibha Sharma
July 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Panchayat secretary conducts final rites||KADAPA: A village panchayat secretary performed the final rites of a Covid-19 deceased in Kadapa district on Wednesday after his relatives and neighbours refused to have anything to do with it. The 60-year old man worked as an attender in a branch of the District Cooperative Central Bank (DCCB). It is believed that he had quarantined himself at his house 10 days ago after an employee at the bank tested positive. Sources said t while the man himself tested negative, he reportedly developed symptoms four days ago and succumbed to the virus. Since he lived alone, he died before medical aid could reach him. When his daughter was informed, she and her husband who reside in Vijayawada rushed to the village. But they refused to conduct the funeral for fear of getting infected. His brother and other relatives who reside in the neighbourhood also refused to perform the final rites prompting the local authorities to step in. The local SI reportedly even counseled and scolded the family members for shirking responsibility. With no one coming forward, the local panchayat secretary Dudekula Lakshmi Narsimhulu decided to take action. Wearing a personal protective equipment (PPE), Narasimhulu went into the residence of the deceased and brought the body out. With the help of local sanitation staff and an auto driver, Narasimhulu got the body into the auto and took it to the burial ground.  “We cremated the body as per the religious customs of the deceased. I decided to complete the formalities early, before the body begins to decompose and infection begins to spreads,” Narasimhulu told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/panchayat-secretary-conducts-final-rites/articleshow/77248178.cms||Samdani MN
July 30, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Jind lacks infra for molecular lab||JIND: A molecular lab that was expected to be set up at Jind civil hospital for Covid-19 testing, is yet to be established due to lack of space, staff and training. The director general of health services (DGHS) had issued orders for setting up the unit on July 1. Equipment for setting up such lab was sent to five districts, including Jind, Bhiwani, Faridabad, Rewari and Sirsa. Dr Ajay Chalia, who is overseeing the lab’s establishment in Jind, said their team checked other labs and came to know a lab needed 70 staff members, 15-20 rooms, training and other major consumable items, which were not easy available. “We don’t have required space in Jind civil hospital and sought space in a polyclinic. A letter for permission has been sent to officials concerned. Also, staff requirements have been brought to the knowledge in higher-upst. It can take n a month if these points are sorted out in time,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/jind-lacks-infra-for-molecular-lab/articleshow/77250690.cms||Vijender Kumar
July 30, 2020||Goa||Visually impaired student scores 73% at Class X||Panaji: Benaulim-resident and 100% visually impaired Nympha Fernandes faced a tough time at age 11. To facilitate her academics, Nympha had to reside 40km away from home at the National Association for Blind (NAB) in Santa Cruz. The lockdown due to the pandemic led to uncertainty about the state board exam schedule. Once the new dates were declared, Nympha had to travel every day from Benaulim to NAB to keep her exam preparation going. The struggle finally paid off when Nympha scored 73.3% at the Class X exam on Tuesday. The teenager said she will now pursue her dream of becoming a historian. “I had expected to score at least 80%. But I have no regrets,” said Nympha, who also wants to continue her passion for singing, helped by her own Youtube channel. Born a premature baby, Nympha’s retina was damaged due to medical negligence at the hospital during her time in an incubator. It meant her parents, Josephine, geography department HOD at government college, Quepem, and father Philip, a businessman, had to rush the infant for surgery to Chennai. “When we decided to keep her at NAB from Class V onwards, it was a tough call. But I knew I wanted her to become independent and that is what drove me to keep her at NAB, away from home. It is thanks to the efforts of her teachers at NAB that she has scored well,” said Josephine. At NAB, the teachers ensure that the students follow a disciplined study schedule, with the day starting at 6am and with after-school study time fixed from 3pm to 6pm. Nympha was enrolled by NAB in the Santa Cruz High School nearby, where she and her friends would travel by a Balrath bus. “At NAB, I would get bored during the study break because my friends who are partially blind could play, but I could not. Then we would be taken to the nearby football ground for a walk. It is this walking and chatting that I enjoyed,” said Nympha. Nympha’s friend at NAB, Chetana Shahapurkar has had her own struggles to secure a score of 72.3% at the Class X exams. Partially visually impaired, Chetana lost her father at a young age and is being raised by a single parent Hemangi, a preprimary school teacher. Chetana too was born prematurely and thus had impaired vision. “I want to pursue graduation in the arts stream now,” said Chetana, a student of Mushtifund High School. She lives in Santa Cruz, close to the NAB premises. Another student who was residing at the NAB, Francis Clement, has scored 63.8% at the Class X exams. “We are pleased as our visually impaired students have answered the Class X exams with sheer determination. In spite of the various hurdles faced due to the lockdown, Nympha and Francis were visiting NAB regularly since May 15, travelling all the way from south for the sake of their studies. The NAB teachers helped them during this period in their exam preparation,” said NAB Goa state branch president Rozendo Mendonsa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/visually-impaired-student-scores-73-at-class-x/articleshow/77250682.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
July 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Alleged kingpin of spurious injection racket held||AHMEDABAD: City crime branch sleuths have arrested the alleged mastermind of the spurious tocilizumab racket, Sohel Tai, from Surat, and nabbed his associates Ashish Shah and Akshay Shah. Crime branch sources are tight lipped about where the Shah brothers were held. Crime branch sources said Tai has been tested for Covid and was presented in court on Wednesday. The Shah brothers have been sent for pre-arrest Covid tests. The Gujarat Food and Drugs Control Administration (FDCA) busted the racket, under which nandrolone decanoate was packaged and sold as tocilizumab through a bogus company, Generic Pharma, owned by Tai. “The injections were even administered to severely ill Covid patients. The accused sold the spurious injections in Surat and Ahmedabad. When the investigation of the case was handled by Vastrapur police, two other suspects, Harsh Thakor and Nilesh Laliwala, were arrested. The investigation was later transferred to crime branch,” said a senior crime branch official. Crime branch sources said the misleading packaging material and labels was printed in Ahmedabad by Laliwala and Thakor and then sent to Surat. There, Tai and the Shah brothers would then pack the steroid nandrolone decanoate in the boxes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/alleged-kingpin-of-spurious-injection-racket-held/articleshow/77249609.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Kar sewaks not invited, felicitation later this year||LUCKNOW: With the pandemic forcing the temple trust to scale down celebrations and shorten the invitee list, excluding kar sewaks from ‘bhoomi pujan’, Vishwa Hindu Parishad has decided to felicitate its foot soldiers, who were at the vanguard of the temple movement in the early Nineties. VHP sources said, it has chosen three days — October 30, November 2 and December 6 — to honour kar sewaks, who sacrificed their lives for the cause. While the first two dates commemorate those who died in police firing in 1990 while trying to assemble at Ramjanmabhoomi during Mulayam Singh Yadav’s regime, December 6 marks the day in 1992, when the disputed structure was razed. Talking to TOI, VHP national general secretary Milind Parande said, “We always remember the sacrifice of kar sewaks on these days. Now, is the time to honour them,” he said, confirming VHP’s plans to mobilise its cadre to contact kar sewaks and families of those who died for the temple cause. “They would be felicitated. Had it not been for the pandemic, we would have asked them to troop to Ayodhya,” said Parande. Earlier, VHP had decided to honour lawyers who fought the legal battle in Supreme Court. In January this year, home minister Amit Shah had said temple construction would begin soon. In fact, the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerath Kshetra Trust had zeroed in a period between March 25 and Ram Navami (April 4). But plans were delayed following the Covid outbreak. VHP sources said, the organisation has a complete database of kar sewaks, who contributed to the cause of the temple. This comes close on heels of plans to reach out to 2.75 lakh villages, which contributed a brick and Rs 1.25 for the temple at the peak of movement. The Trust also plans to crowd-fund the temple project, instead of relying on the government. According to plans, its cadre would fan out across the country to seek donation from willing people. “The issue is associated with faith and sentiments of crores of Hindus, who will contribute to the construction,” said a senior VHP functionary..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kar-sewaks-not-invited-felicitation-later-this-yr/articleshow/77251030.cms||Pankaj Shah
July 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Graft claims: Statement of junior artiste recorded||HYDERABAD: Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials on Wednesday recorded the statement of a junior artiste in relation to the bribery allegations levelled by her against an inspector of the Hyderabad police commissionerate. In May last week, the junior artiste lodged a cheating complaint against cinematographer Shyam K Naidu. About 10 days ago, the junior artiste wrote to ACB alleging that the inspector of the police station where she had lodged the complaint demanded Rs 5 lakh from her.. “Other than the recorded conversation between the middleman and her, there is no other evidence,” an ACB official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/graft-claims-statement-of-jr-artiste-recorded/articleshow/77249546.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Hearing on pleas challenging BSP-Congress merger to continue||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan high court began hearing BJP MLA Madan Dilawar’s two petitions challenging the speaker’s decision against the merger of six BSP MLAs into Congress on Wednesday. The hearing would continue before the single bench of justice Mahendar Kumar Goyal on Thursday. The court tagged the BSP petition with Dilawar’s two petitions as all three have challenged the merger that was allowed by the speaker in September last year. Dilawar’s first petition challenged the speaker’s rejection of his complaint on technical grounds without hearing him. The second plea challenged the speaker's detailed order dated July 24 that rejected the MLA's complaint against the merger of BSP MLAs with the Congress. The single bench of justice Goyal began hearing the BJP MLA’s second petition as well as the one by the BSP jointly. The MLAs whose merger has been challenged include Sandeep Yadav, Wajib Ali, Deepchand Kheria, Lakhan Meena, Jogendra Awana and Rajendra Gudha. They were elected to the state assembly on BSP tickets in 2018 but merged into Congress in September 2019. The merger strengthened the ruling Congress taking its tally from 101 to 107 in the 200-member House.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hearing-on-pleas-challenging-bsp-cong-merger-to-continue/articleshow/77250683.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Bizman dies after being ‘denied treatment at 5 hosps’||Ludhiana: Before he died, a city businessman was allegedly made to shuttle among five hospitals and wrongly declared Covid-19 positive. Surinder Kumar, 62, a hosiery businessman and resident of Old Madhopuri, was suffering from breathlessness, which made the hospitals presume that he was a suspected Covid-19 patient.His son, Parag Gulati, said, “My father complained of breathing problem on Tuesday morning. We took him to a nearby private hospital. Suspecting him to be a Covid-19 patient, the doctors there said they don’t have a bed or a ventilator. Thereafter, we took him to another private hospital. There, he was given oxygen support. But around 2.30pm, the doctors said they don’t have a bed and a ventilator. We went to two more private hospitals and got the same reply. Then, we reached civil hospital.”At civil hospital, the patient’s rapid test for Covid-19 was conducted. Kumar’s son-in-law Bhupesh Gogia said, “Minutes later, the man at the civil hospital reception desk told us that the patient was Covid-19 positive. Saying that the hospital does not have a ventilator, he asked us to take the patient to a private hospital. Thereafter, I called cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, who arranged a bed for him at a private hospital. It was the same hospital that had earlier told us that it neither had a bed nor a ventilator.”“We were calling an ambulance, when my father expired. The man at the reception desk of civil hospital had said my father was positive, but when we reached the hospital to take his body on Wednesday, we were told that he had tested negative. Doctors gave us in writing that his Covid-19 test report was negative,” Gulati added. Gogia said, “There could have been another reason for his breathlessness. We took him to four private hospitals, which did not admit him. We want to know who is responsible for his death. We are writing to Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh about it.” Civil hospital nodal officer Dr Rohit Rampal said, “Surinder Kumar’s Covid-19 test report was negative. A namesake patient had tested positive and that might have created confusion.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizman-dies-after-being-denied-treatment-at-5-hosps/articleshow/77248157.cms||Payal Dhawan
July 30, 2020||Agra||Girl jumps in front of speeding train in Agra||An 18-year-old girl, identified as Nisha, jumped in front of a train at a railway crossing in Sadar area of Agra city on Wednesday. According to eye witness Pankaj, the gateman, “She walked right in front of Mangla Express and was run over. I shouted at her to get away, but she didn’t.” Later, police sent her body for autopsy. The SHO Sadar said, “The exact cause behind the suicide is not known. Her parents are in deep shock.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/girl-jumps-in-front-of-speeding-train-in-agra/articleshow/77248202.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Yes, last day for 10% property tax rebate is July 31, but you can pay online||Ludhiana: As the last date to avail 10% rebate on property tax is July 31, huge rush of tax payers is being witnessed at suvidha centres of the Municipal Corporation (MC). Long queues can be seen outside suvidha centres in zonal offices and social distancing norms are also being ignored. The employees deputed at suvidha centres do not let many people gather inside the premises but people can be seen sitting or standing outside the building in groups. Even in the zonal offices, public are allowed if the temperature is normal and hands are sanitised. Sources said the rebate on property tax has been extended many times during Covid-19 to give enough chance to the people for clearing pending dues but still people come when last two three days are left. The officials, however, claimed that people have the option to clear their payments for last and current financial year online, but they somehow prefer to come personally to the suvidha centres and deposit their tax. On Thursday and Friday, more people are expected being last two days. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said, “We have requested people to maintain social distance but they do not listen. We have even asked them not to come to the MC offices and if they have any issues they should drop their grievances in the complaint box, but nobody again listens to such logic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/yes-last-day-for-10-property-tax-rebate-is-july-31-but-you-can-pay-online/articleshow/77250711.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Goa||Goa: After vow not to renew casino licenses, CCP does a ‘rethink’||PANAJI: Three off-shore casinos have approached the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) seeking renewal of their trade licenses. CCP mayor Uday Madkaikar said that their applications have been kept on hold, and that a decision to renew their licenses would be taken later. Annually, CCP earns Rs 56 lakh in trade license fees from the six off-shore casinos which are in the Mandovi, and stands to earn around Rs 25 lakh from the three off-shore casinos. “CCP has kept the applications on hold, but in the current situation, local businessmen and tourist taxi operators had come to us and told us that if casinos are closed down, they would have no business,” said Madkaikar. He said that he would consult all stakeholders before taking a decision. Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserratte had promised to remove all the off-shore casinos from the river Mandovi within 100 days of winning the 2019 Panaji byelection. However, since then, he has reneged on his promise. “The MLA is firm that the casinos’ trade licenses should not be renewed,” Madkaikar said. “But we also have to also consider the situation. We can’t just decide not to renew their trade licences.” Currently, a dozen onshore and six offshore casinos operate in the state, though all are shut because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The off-shore casinos operate from vessels which are owned by the Deltin Corp Ltd, Pride Group and Golden Globe Hotels Private Limited, and are moored in the Mandovi. The civic body is running out of cash, and it presented a Rs 11 crore deficit budget in March for the current financial year. The civic body had also proposed to increase the tax on casinos from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 2 lakh per year. In October 2019, CCP had passed a resolution not to renew trade licences of off-shore casinos due to the parking and traffic nuisance created by them. Madkaikar even asked the government to shift one casino per month from the Mandovi. Casinos have their trade licenses renewed between April and June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-vow-not-to-renew-casino-licenses-ccp-does-a-rethink/articleshow/77250698.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Dismantling of chariots starts in Puri||BHUBANESWAR: The Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) on Wednesday started dismantling the chariots that were pulled on Rath Yatra on June 23. The dismantled wooden components will be assembled for reconstruction of the chariots and placed on the premises of Jagannath Ballav mutt to attract tourists. Last week, the SJTA had decided to preserve the three chariots at the mutt. “We have started with the dismantling of goddess Subhadra’s Devidalan chariot. The wooden parts of Lord Jagannath’s Nandighosh chariot and Lord Balabhadra’s Taladwaja chariot would be taken out in the next few days,” a senior temple officer said. To ensure that the dismantled parts are not damaged, the district administration has mobilized a crane to bring down the heavy wooden components to the ground. Skilled carpenters have been engaged to carefully remove the iron nails. Post Rath Yatra, the chariots are traditionally dismantled every year. While the wheels and some other parts were auctioned, the remaining parts were used as firewood in the Jagannath temple’s kitchen. “Our tradition does not allow us to pull the chariots again from in front of the temple to the Jagannath Ballav mutt, which is about 300 metres from the shrine. Once the Rath Yatra is completed, the same chariots are not allowed to roll again. We will shift the dismantled portions to the mutt and reconstruct the chariots there,” chief carpenter of Jagannaths Nandighosh chariot Bijay Mahapatra said. The temple administration said they would supply new logs, if required during the reconstruction. “We have roped in experts, who will draw the masterplan for proper maintenance of chariots inside the Jagannath Ballav mutt,” SJTAs chief administrator Krishan Kumar said. Jagannath Ballav mutt, which sprawls over 42 acre, is being developed by the state government under the Augmentation Basic Amenities and Development of Heritage and Architecture (ABADHA) scheme. Multi-layer parking lot, medication centre, museum and craft centre are being developed on the land. Every year, nearly 1,000 trees of different species are felled to meet the requirement of 13,000 cubic feet of wood for the making of three chariots of the sibling deities -Jagannath, Balabhadra and Subhadra. The height of Taladhwaja chariot of Lord Balabhadra is 45-ft, Nandighosh of Jagannath is 45.6ft and Devidalan chariot of goddess Subhadra is 44.6ft.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/dismantling-of-chariots-starts-in-puri/articleshow/77248224.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Simhachalam temple gets central grant of Rs 53 crore||VISAKHAPATNAM: The central government has sanctioned Rs 53 crore for development work on pilgrim infrastructure at the Simhachalam temple under the Prasad (pilgrimage rejuvenation and spiritual augmentation drive) scheme of the tourism ministry. State tourism minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has sent a letter to Union minister of state for tourism and culture Prahlad Singh Patel, requesting financial assistance. Under the scheme, work will be taken up at the foothills of Simhachalam at an estimated cost of Rs 27.86 crore, Rs 18.21 crore will be spent on Simhachalam uphill and Rs 3.87 crore will be spent on pan-area components, Srinivasa Rao told TOI. Programmable LED lights will be set up in the temple complex, the two-kilometre road from the confluence of the old and new entrance roads to the hilltop development queue complex will be widened, steps will be laid from Sattamma temple to Simhachalam temple and pilgrimage facilitation halls at Sattamma temple set up. The state government had sent proposals to the Centre for the development of three shrines under the scheme. -- Siva G||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/simhachalam-temple-gets-central-grant-of-rs-53-crore/articleshow/77255134.cms||Siva G
July 30, 2020||Agra||Husband in illicit affair with sister-in-law, attempts to run SUV over wife||Fatehabad police arrested a man who tried to run his SUV over his wife on Wednesday. According to police, the accused was earlier booked in March for abducting his 20-year-old sister-in-law. When the woman was rescued in April, she alleged she had been raped by the accused. On Wednesday, the accused came over to the house of his in-laws, where his wife had been staying, to resolve the matter, but his wife claimed that he attempted to drive his SUV over her. The accused was arrested and booked under IPC Section 307, based on his wife’s complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/husband-in-illicit-affair-with-sister-in-law-attempts-to-run-suv-over-wife/articleshow/77248211.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ex-boyfriend posts intimate videos on pornsite, held||Ahmedabad: The cyber cell of city police on Wednesday detained a man for allegedly posting videos of his ex-girlfriend on a pornographic website. The video then made it to around 15 such websites. Cyber cell sources said they are trying to get the videos removed from these site. Deputy commissioner of police Rajdeepsinh Jhala said the woman and the accused were in a relationship. During their relationship, he had filmed intimate videos of them. When they broke up, he posted them on a pornographic website. Police sources said after the woman provided the accused’s address, they went to his house and took him into custody. During his interrogation he confessed to posting the videos on the pornsite. “The accused is an electronics and telecommunications engineer and works as an event manager for a private company,” said Jhala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ex-boyfriend-posts-intimate-videos-on-pornsite-held/articleshow/77249559.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Simhachalam temple gets central grant of Rs 53 crore||VISAKHAPATNAM: The central government has sanctioned Rs 53 crore for development work on pilgrim infrastructure at the Simhachalam temple under the Prasad (pilgrimage rejuvenation and spiritual augmentation drive) scheme of the tourism ministry. State tourism minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has sent a letter to Union minister of state for tourism and culture Prahlad Singh Patel, requesting financial assistance. Under the scheme, work will be taken up at the foothills of Simhachalam at an estimated cost of Rs 27.86 crore, Rs 18.21 crore will be spent on Simhachalam uphill and Rs 3.87 crore will be spent on pan-area components, Srinivasa Rao told TOI. Programmable LED lights will be set up in the temple complex, the two-kilometre road from the confluence of the old and new entrance roads to the hilltop development queue complex will be widened, steps will be laid from Sattamma temple to Simhachalam temple and pilgrimage facilitation halls at Sattamma temple set up. The state government had sent proposals to the Centre for the development of three shrines under the scheme. -- Siva G||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/simhachalam-temple-gets-central-grant-of-rs-53-crore/articleshow/77248217.cms||Siva G
July 30, 2020||Nagpur||CCCs now almost empty as even +ves are sent for home isolation||Nagpur: Lack of clear guidelines regarding admissions at Covid Care Centres (CCC) continued to hound nodal officers and Nagpur Municipal Corporation officials on Wednesday too even as Shalinitai Meghe Medical College (SMMC) was converted into a Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DCHC) where only elderly asymptomatic patients with comobidities and moderately symptomatic patients would be treated. SMMC, which was used as CCC for two days, is having 50 patients now. The city now has four functional CCCs at MLA Hostel, Pachpaoli police quarters, Vanamati and VNIT hostel with around 1,600 beds. All the CCCs were almost empty with officials wondering as to who would be treated here when asymptomatic patients are allowed to go home without any screening at hospitals. On Saturday, quarantined suspects, who had tested negative were discharged in large numbers to bring in asymptomatic positive patients at the CCCs. On Tuesday, positive patients too were sent in home isolation without screening at hospitals. MLA Hostel CCC discharged remaining 10 asymptomatic patients who had stayed back on Tuesday when 270 went in home isolation. CCC received six screened asymptomatic patients from GMCH and four from IGGMCH on Wednesday. CCCs officials said they don’t have any instructions as per new policy so they would follow the 10-day discharge policy. Pachpaoli CCC, which had held back 66 for screening at hospital, discharged them for home isolation after examination by in-house staff. This CCC is now left with just 18 positive patients. Of these, two positive patients were brought directly from their homes as they didn’t have isolation facilities. VNIT discharged 28 patients and admitted none from hospitals. It was left with just 97 including 70 positive cases in its CCC and 27 in quarantine facility. As centres are not facing any burden, they are likely to be discharged in next couple of days, unless new norms are decided. On the other hand, NMC officials faced immense burden of monitoring asymptomatic patients in each of the 10 zones. Though some warning stickers were pasted outside patients’ homes, many used political pressure to evade the measure. Officials said the administration was likely to come up with clear guidelines soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cccs-now-almost-empty-as-even-ves-are-sent-for-home-isolation/articleshow/77249556.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Bizmen furious as Ludh factories asked to pay Rs 2 extra between 6-10pm||Ludhiana: The decision of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to impose an additional Rs 2 per unit for usage of power between 6pm and 10pm in factories has created quite an uproar among industrialists. The charge has been imposed on large supply(LS), medium supply (MS) and NRS (commercial) category of meters and its being charged retrospectively from June 1 and will continue till September 30. Most realised that they were being charged extra only after receiving their bills for June. However, PSPCL authorities said they had already issued a circular in this regard in June. According to the circular which has been issued on June 3 by the deputy chief engineer, sales, PSPCL, “Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) has decided that for financial year 2020-21 , Time of day (ToD) tariff shall be applicable to NRS/BS consumers with sanctioned demand of more than 100 KVA, all LS/MS consumers, including rural water supply schemes and compost, solid waste management plants and EV charging stations, from June 1 till September 30 normal tariff plus Rs 2 per KVAH will be applicable between 6pm till 10pm.” Lashing out against PSPCL, Jaswinder Thukral, president of Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers’ Association, said, “This is a well planned conspiracy by PSPCL and PSERC to destroy the industry of Punjab which is evident from the fact that recently the PSERC cancelled the decision of state government to waive off the fixed charges for two months during the lockdown period and now the burden of Rs 2 per unit has been imposed on us. Everyone knows that industry is passing through worst phase due to coronavirus and huge losses have been incurred by us as there was no business activity for months.” Thukral also added, “Crores of rupees worth money will be extorted by PSPCL by imposing these charges on us which is totally unjustified and we will not sit silently. Soon we are going to meet chairpersons of PSPCL and PSERC to lodge our protest against this decision and seek justice. If they do not do anything, we will be forced to protest against both the departments” According to Upkar Singh Ahuja, president of Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU), “PSPCL has once again acted arbitrarily and ordered us to pay Rs 2 per unit in addition to the normal tariff if we use power between 6pm and 10pm. Though the order is valid only till September 30, micro small and medium enterprises (MSME) units will not be able to bear the burden in these tough times when most are already facing huge and unprecedented recession due to coronavirus. It is unfortunate that instead of providing electricity at Rs 5 per unit to us, the government is silently letting PSPCL rob us by increasing power charges every other day. Now, this will not be tolerated by us and we will take up this matter with chief minister and seek his intervention in getting this order of additional power charges cancelled.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-furious-as-ludh-factories-asked-to-pay-rs-2-extra-between-6-10pm/articleshow/77250705.cms||Mohit Behl
July 30, 2020||Pune||Dense areas in Dhankawdi ward under close watch||Pune: Densely populated localities like Parvati Shivdarshan Vasahat, Taljai Vasahat, Katraj, Tawre colony, Annabhau Sathenagar, Tangewala society and Ambegaon are now on PMC radar following a rapid rise of Covid-19 cases in the Dhankawdi-Sahakarnagar ward limits. The ward areas added 681 cases in just a week. It also has the maximum number of active cases (1,490) among all 15 civic wards, compelling the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to intensify containment measures there. Nilesh Deshmukh, head of Dhankawdi-Sahakarnagar ward, said a dedicated testing centre was started in the ward limits about two weeks ago, which helped in increasing testing and detection of more positive cases. “We have mapped the localities with more cases and deployed teams for contact tracing,” he said. Jayant Bosekar, zonal officer, said cases were emerging from scattered areas mainly because of the unlocking, which led to more movement of people. Sources said newly merged areas of Katraj, Ambegaon Budruk and some parts of Narhe were emerging as vulnerable spots due to high population density. Local corporator Vishal Tambe said the civic authorities have been urged to survey all the vulnerable places. — Sarang Dastane||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dense-areas-in-dhankawdi-ward-under-close-watch/articleshow/77250707.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 30, 2020||Pune||At 66, Pune records its highest single-day toll||PUNE: A record 66 patients, including a nine-month-old baby from Yerawada, succumbed to Covid-19 complications in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Wednesday, taking the region’s toll to 1,858. Besides, 2,613 people tested positive for the contagion in the last 24 hours, pushed up Covid-19 tally to 78,013. While the PMC limits added 1,308 cases, the PCMC areas 1,022 and rural as well as Cantonment areas together reported 283 cases in the last 24 hours. The PMC said about 2,543 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours ended on Wednesday night after they were declared cured. The caseload of active patients in PMC dropped to 17,861 from Tuesday’s 19,135 after the record single-day discharges. As many as 32,623 patients have been discharged in PMC limits so far. A total of 845 patients were at critical stage, of whom 432 are on ventilator support, a PMC official said, adding that the PMC conducted 5,919 tests on Wednesday, which included the rapid antigen tests. The discharged patients included a 100-year-old woman from Vimannagar who was undergoing treatment at a Covid care centre. Mayor Muralidhar Mohol took to Twitter to congratulate the woman and her treating doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/at-66-city-records-its-highest-single-day-toll/articleshow/77250695.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Recycling of plastic waste‘only way out’||HYDERABAD: India is facing a huge waste management challenge, especially plastic waste, said experts at a climate change conference hosted by the British Deputy High Commission, Hyderabad. The experts said recycling is the only way out in the current scenario. Shoko Noda, resident representative, United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)-India, said: “Around 16.9 million tonnes of plastic waste is generated in India. Only about 50% of plastic waste is recycled.” While stating that India was taking steps in the right direction, she said: “We must keep our ambition high.” Prabhjot Sodhi, head (circular economy), UNDP-India, said the major concern still remains thin and multi-layered plastic which has relatively a low economic value. Stressing on the need to address this issue, Roshan Miranda, co-founder, Waste Ventures India, said the informal system must be made more robust by including waste pickers in collection and segregation of such plastic. About measures that can be taken for better waste management, Paul Firth, representing Nottingham city council, said introduction of a tax on plastic has made a profound impact in the UK. The panel discussion on recycling and climate change was organised by the British deputy high commission, Hyderabad, UNDP-India and embassy of Italy, Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/recycling-of-plastic-wasteonly-way-out/articleshow/77249570.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Pune||Paralytic woman died 2 days after husband’s demise: Cops||PUNE: The 70-year-old woman, whose decomposed body was found with that of her husband (75) in a Shivajinagar flat on July 25, may have died of starvation two days after the death of her husband, who died of cardiac arrest. Sharing this information with TOI, the Shivajinagar police said the woman suffered from a paralytic condition, which rendered her bedridden. “Preliminary post-mortem reports have shown a difference of two days in the death of the husband and his wife. The reports also mentioned cardiac arrest as the cause of the husband’s death. In the case of the woman, it stated that a viscera has been preserved and sent for further chemical analysis,” inspector Manisha Zende of the Shivajinagar police said, adding , “She needed constant attention and support.” A relative of the couple went to their flat last Saturday after they did not answer her phone calls. She also alerted the police. Zende said the retired couple had no issue and were surviving on the interest accrued from their savings in the bank. Most other flat owners and tenants on the first-floor of the building had gone to their native villages after the Covid-19 outbreak,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/paralytic-woman-died-2-days-after-husbands-demise-cops/articleshow/77250724.cms||Gitesh Shelke
July 30, 2020||Varanasi||Policeman lands in trouble for kicking youth into Ganga||VARANASI: Vindhyachal police station in-charge Inspector Sheshdhar Pandey landed in troubled water for kicking a youth into the Ganga river near Diwan Ghat in Mirzapur district on Wednesday. The incident took place when a large crowd had gathered on the bank to view divers trying to recover the body of a Varanasi youth from the river near Diwan Ghat. SP Mirzapur Dharmvir Singh has registered a warning in the service file of the inspector for his misconduct and ordered the CO City to give a report in this episode for initiating further action. Reports said on Wednesday morning, one Shailesh Singh alias Bholu of Phoolpur area in Varanasi along with his six other friends including Gopi Vishwakarma, Hansraj, Krishna, Anand, Hemant and Vinod had reached Vindhyachal to offer prayer at the temple. Before going to the temple, they decided to take a bath in the Ganga and reached neighbouring Diwan Ghat. His companions said that after bathing, they all came out of the river but he went again for bathing and drowned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/policeman-lands-in-trouble-for-kicking-youth-into-ganga/articleshow/77245695.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi govt studying the new education policy, says Manish Sisodia||NEW DELHI: Deputy chief minister and education minister Manish Sisodia said that the National Education Policy was a “welcome step”, but added that “an education policy cannot be a compilation of wishful thinking”. Sharing his reaction on Twitter, Sisodia, said, “National Education Policy after so many years of wait is welcome step. But as I have said earlier, an education policy cannot be a compilation of all wishful thinking about education.” He also said Delhi government’s education department was studying NEP and would share its views on it on Thursday. Sisodia’s tweet said, “It’s important to say 'what we'll do', but it's more important to tell 'how we'll do that'. Will express our opinions tomorrow. Education policy has to be the roadmap to fulfil those good wishes we already have about education.” As for changing the name from ministry of human resource development to ministry of education, Sisodia said it was a long-standing demand. “Extremely happy to hear this announcement. It is of utmost importance that education be about developing human beings rather than developing 'human resources'. A much-needed step in the right direction,” the deputy CM said. In 2016, during a meeting with the HRD ministry, Sisodia had demanded a change in the name of the ministry, underlining the fact that education was not about developing resources, but about 360-degree development of children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-govt-studying-the-new-policy-says-sisodia/articleshow/77250753.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Pune||Pune admin to hospitals: Update bed status every two hours||PUNE: The administration of the Pune division on Wednesday issued an order directing the hospitals in the city to update the availability of beds at their facilities every two hours, a day before chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s visit to review the Covid-19 situation. The order stated that notices would be issued against the hospitals not giving regular updates and necessary action would be initiated. Pune divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar told TOI, “The regular or real-time updates would be strictly monitored.” He said the updates every two hours would ensure that citizens get the correct information on the divisional commissioner’s dashboard. “It is supposed to be the one-point information on availability of beds in all hospitals in the city and rural areas,” he said. A total of 53 hospitals have been identified in the city for treating Covid-19 patients. Officials stated that deputy collectors were given the responsibility to monitor the operations of 20 main hospitals. Still, many Covid-19 patients’ relatives had to run around for beds allegedly because of poor dashboard update. Now, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials would be assigned to the remaining 33 hospitals to ensure that the bed availability was updated on the dashboard regularly. According to the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP), no hospital can deny admission to Covid-19 patients. In case of non-availability of beds, the administration of the hospital concerned, and the designated government officials are supposed to ensure that the patient is shifted to the nearest hospital having beds. “The accountability has been clearly stated in the SOP,” Pune collector Naval Kishore Ram said. After visiting the Sassoon General Hospital on Wednesday, Ram said the facility would have 870 ICU beds ready by the first week of August. On the eve of chief minister Thackeray’s review meeting, he said the administration was conducting more tests at all levels and the work of setting up the makeshift hospitals would be finalised in two days. Thackeray has not visited Pune after he became the chief minister of Maharashtra in November last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/admin-to-hospitals-update-bed-status-every-two-hours/articleshow/77250718.cms||Nisha Nambiar
July 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Third TRS MLA from Nizamabad tests Covid-19 positive||HYDERABAD: Armoor legislator A Jeevan Reddy is the third MLA from Nizamabad to have tested positive for Covid-19. After being admitted to a hospital in the city for a day, the ruling party MLA is now in self isolation at his house. Earlier, Nizamabad urban MLA Ganesh Gupta and Nizamabad rural MLA Bajireddy Goverdhan had tested positive. Both of them, who belong to the TRS, have recovered. After Ganesh tested positive, he had made a video informing people that he was in self isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3rd-trs-mla-from-nzb-tests-ve/articleshow/77249604.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 30, 2020||Dehradun||UBSE results out: Pass % up marginally, girls outperform boys||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand Board of School Education (UBSE) announced the results for Classes X and XII on Wednesday. In good news for the state, the pass percentages for both Class X and Class XII shot up, though marginally, than those of the last academic year (2018-19). For Class XII, the pass percentage this academic year (2019-20) rose to 80.26% from 80.13% in 2018-19. Similarly, 76.91% students cleared Class X board exams this academic year which is slightly better than the results of 2018-19 when 76.43% students had passed. A total of 1,19,164 students had appeared for Class XII UBSE exams this year and as many as 147,155 students had given Class X UBSE exams. The top three districts which recorded best performances in Class XII board exams were Bageshwar (90%), Rudraprayag (89.55%) and Almora (86.55%). And the top three best performing districts in terms of Class X board exam results were Champawat (84.93%), Bageshwar (84.23%) and Rudraprayag (83.02%). Meanwhile, girls again outperformed boys in the state. For Class XII, the pass percentage of girls was 83.63% while that of boys were 76.68%. Similarly for Class X, the pass percentage of girls was 82.65% while that of boys were 71.39%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ubse-results-out-pass-up-marginally-girls-outperform-boys/articleshow/77246774.cms||Mohammad Anab
July 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pathalgadi activists had begun marking territory: ATS||Ahmedabad: Gujarat ATS has claimed that the three Pathalgadi activists arrested on the night of July 24 had already strengthened their foothold in some tribal areas of Bharuch and Chota Udepur. Samu Oreya, 21, and Birsa Oreya, 27, of Jharkhand residing in Vyara of Tapi and Babita Kachhap, 33, of Ranchi and residing in Mahisagar district had begun marking territory according to the movement’s modus operandi and had placed six stones demarcating the extent of ‘Pathalgadh’ beyond which they do not recognize the government’s rule.“The activists were in contact with their leaders in Jharkhand and gathering funds from Gujarat to allegedly overthrow the elected government here,” an ATS official said. ATS sources said the Pathalgadi movement activists had conspired to instigate the followers of the Sati- Pati (Sati is mother and Pati is father) cult to adopt violent means to overthrow the elected government in Gujarat.Gujarat ATS said that based on inputs, they had tracked the phone numbers of the activists and late on Friday night arrested all three accused including Kacchap. “They have been booked under Sections 121 A, 124 A, 153 A and 120 B of the IPC,” said a senior ATS official. “The accused are involved in seven offences in Khunti and Murhu distircts of Jharkhand including sedition, conspiracy to wage a war, abduction and kidnapping. They are absconders in those cases. We have informed our Jharkhand counterparts about their apprehension,” said an ATS official. Senior ATS sources said that the Pathalgadi movement had gained traction in Jharkhand in 2016. “The word Pathalgadi comes from a tribal custom of positioning a stone on a tomb. Adivasi communities in Jharkhand display messages on large stones — known as Pathalgadi. “The stones are painted green and measure and messages are written on them . The movement seeks to replace the power of the central and state governments with that of the local gram sabha,” said an ATS official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pathalgadi-activists-had-begun-marking-territory-ats/articleshow/77249574.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Delhi||Heavy rain eludes Delhi, more of same today||NEW DELHI: Parts of Delhi-NCR recorded light to moderate rain on Wednesday, however, “heavy” rain eluded the capital despite overcast skies recorded post noon. Delhi received a strong, yet brief spell of rain between 11.30am and 2.30pm, while a second spell of rain was recorded closer to the evening, before 5.30pm. While IMD had forecast a spell of moderate to heavy rain in the evening, Met officials say it is likely to occur overnight, with rain also forecast for Thursday. The city’s base station, Safdarjung, received 9.3mm of rainfall between 8.30am and 5.30pm on Wednesday. The Ridge station received the most rain on Wednesday, however it was in the “moderate” range, recording 33.2mm of rainfall, followed by Lodhi Road station, which recorded 13.1mm. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre (RWFC), said Delhi primarily recorded light to moderate rain, but Noida and Faridabad saw more rain. “Tomorrow, Delhi is likely to see moderate rain in more places, while some parts may also record heavy rain,” said Srivastava. IMD classifies rainfall recorded between 2.5 and 15.5mm as “light”, between 15.6mm and 64.4mm as “moderate”, between 64.5 and 115.5mm as “heavy” and beyond 115.6mm in a 24-hour period as “very heavy”. Delhi has already received “excess” rainfall at Safdarjung, Palam and Lodhi Road stations for the month of July, however the overall rainfall deficit stands at 26% so far this season. The maximum temperature on Wednesday was 36.6 degrees Celsius – two notches above normal for this time of the season. Humidity levels remained on the higher side too, oscillating between 58% and 92% in the last 24 hours. Forecast for Thursday shows moderate showers with heavy rain at isolated spots. Delhi has already recorded two “heavy” rain days this month – on July 19 and July 22. While the capital received 74.8mm of rainfall at Safdarjung on July 22, it recorded 67.6mm at Safdarjung on July 22. The highest rainfall recorded at a station so far in the capital this season was at the Ridge station, with 86mm of rainfall in a 24-hour period, on July 19. The normal ‘mark’ for rain for the month of July is 210.6mm. Till Wednesday morning, the capital had already received 226.8mm of rainfall this month. Watch Watch: Heavy rains lash Delhi, NCR||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/heavy-rain-eludes-city-more-of-same-today/articleshow/77250722.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Bhubaneswar||With shops closed, 1st anniversary of GI tag for ‘rasagola’ leave bitter taste||BHUBANESWAR: A year back, Odisha had got the Geographical Indication (GI) tag for its famed sweet dish ‘rasagola’. The tag was awarded for its unique taste. The awarding of the GI tag was celebrated with much fanfare. And while there were plans to make the first anniversary a roaring success this year, Covid-19 arrived and forced everything to the backburner. With sweet shops shut amid lockdown restrictions to contain the virus, the state went online to celebrate the first anniversary, with posts and photos of the mouth-watering ‘rasagola’. “Odias don’t need any occasion to eat rasagola. It is a must have in every household. Rasagola is a part of our meal but it is not very easy to prepare it at home. With the sweet shops closed, we are missing this important item in our platter,” said Bandana Kar, a homemaker. Experts said apart from getting the GI tag, the next step now is to promote rasagola. “Rasagola makers should come forward to get registered as authorised users of the GI tag. They can have exclusive rights to use the GI tag with their products. Two from Odisha have applied for this, but more should come forward,” said Anita Sabat, researcher and campaigner for GI tag of ‘rasagola’. Sweet makers said they are making very less sweets these days, and only when someone orders. The amount of ‘rasagolas’ being made is just one-fourth to what they used to make in the pre-Covid days. Though a few shops are selling ‘rasagola’ online, it is not even a small fraction of their daily sales during normal days. “We are strictly following the guidelines of the government and are not opening our shops during the lockdown. Since there is a slump in business, many workers have gone back to their villages. So, we are making sweets only when we get an order or very little for online customers. Earlier, we used to make rasagola of at least 10 different varieties, but now only one type of the sweet is available,” said Bimbadhar Behera, owner of Nimapada sweets and secretary of Utkal Mistanna Byabasayee Sangha. Sources said around 13,600 sweet makers in 6800 gram panchayats used to sell 1000 ‘rasagolas’ every day per shop with an annual turnover of nearly Rs 4000 crore. Sweet makers in small towns except Cuttack, Bhubaneswar and Salepur, sold ‘rasagola’ worth Rs 800 crore per annum. In Cuttack, Bhubaneswar and Pahala, the annual sale amounted to Rs 750 crore while in Salepur alone ‘rasagola’ worth Rs 58 crore per annum used to be sold. “Selling sweets is a daily business. We prepare sweets for daily consumption and this lockdown has just spoiled everything. The wedding season went without a single order, so were the festivals. We are forced to shift jobs to make ends meet,” said Prasant Behera, a sweet maker in Pahala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/with-shops-closed-1st-anniv-of-gi-tag-for-rasagola-leave-bitter-taste/articleshow/77248234.cms||Minati Singha
July 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Dairy farmers near Buddha Nullah say will move, but not very far||Ludhiana: In yet another attempt to shift the dairy units from Tajpur Road and Hambran Road to check pollution in Buddha Nullah, municipal commissioner held a meeting on Wednesday at zone D office. However dairy farmers have imposed certain conditions in order to comply with this. According to them, they should not be shifted to far off villages and they should be provided with required infrastructure. A meeting is scheduled on August 1 in Chandigarh where members of task force of Buddha Nullah will also discuss the issue. The MLAs are also called for this meeting. As the main stakeholders, dairy owners inputs will also be considered by task force members. Tajpur Road dairy farmers association member Joginder Malhotra said they have asked the officials to develop two clusters for dairy units. “The dairy farmers who are part of Tajpur Road dairy complex should be given space at Tajpur Road while for Hambran Road dairy units too space should be at Hambran Road to avoid problems in running the business. They have also raised the demand that after shifting dairies, they should be given relaxation in change of land use. The government should arrange for land and also help in getting loan at nominal rates where they want to shift the dairies. In these clusters, arrangements for feeder market and disposal plant for cow dung waste should also be installed.” Meanwhile, one of the dairy farmers claimed that they were ready to shift as Punjab Pollution Control Board has warned them that the units will be sealed if they do not arrange for the cow dung waste disposal plant. The senior veterinary officer Dr Y P Singh said they will forward the demands of the dairy farmers to the task force members and the government will take the final call. There are 153 dairy units at Tajpur Road and 350 dairy units at Hambran Road. Nearly 197dairies are situated scattered across the city, independent of these two clusters. Roughly, there are more than 60,000 cattle in these dairies and waste from these units is going directly into Buddha Nullah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dairy-farmers-near-buddha-nullah-say-will-move-but-not-very-far/articleshow/77250736.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Pune||Elderly couple found dead in Pune, note talks of pact to end life||PUNE: A 70-year-old retired public sector insurance company officer allegedly smothered his ailing wife (66), a former bank clerk, to death before hanging himself from a ceiling fan hook in the drawing room of their Karvenagar flat on Monday. The Alankar police have recovered a note, purportedly written by the man and signed by the couple, stating that they had chose to end their lives, and nobody should be blamed for it. A preliminary post-mortem report stated “asphyxia due to hanging” as the cause of the man’s death and the woman died “due to smothering”. Viscera had been preserved for chemical analysis in the case of the woman, police said. “The man damaged both his knees in an accident a few years ago and, suffered from diabetes and blood pressure (BP). His wife had Parkinson’s disease, diabetes and BP,” an officer said, citing information provided by their only daughter . Assistant police inspector Sachin Popat Dhamne, the complainant on behalf of the state, said in his statement that the couple’s daughter told the police that her parents were apprehensive about getting infected after a positive case was reported in their building. Senior inspector Kalpana Jadhav of the Alankar police said, “A neighbour spotted the man hanging from the ceiling fan hook on Monday afternoon and raised an alarm. A police team found the woman lying motionless in the bedroom. We have registered a murder case in relation to the woman’s death.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/elderly-couple-found-dead-note-talks-of-pact-to-end-life/articleshow/77250744.cms||Gitesh Shelke
July 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Remdesivir smugglers sent Rs 82 crore through angadia||AHMEDABAD: The probe into crime branch’s complaint lodged on Tuesday against Nilkanth Elixir LLP, Makarba, it has been learned that the remdesivir injections were sourced from Bangladesh without bills or import licence. A Bangladeshi national, Shabbir Ahmed, was the principal contact of the racketeers. “Rs 82 crore was sent through one PM Angadia firm located at Amrapali Shopping Centre in Bopal,” an investigator said. The smuggled medicine reached Ahmedabad from Bangladesh via Agartala in Tripura where the India-Bangladesh border is extremely porous. Investigators said the medicines were smuggled in from Bangladesh in two batches. “The first consignment landed in Ahmedabad on July 7 and the second batch landed on July 12. The consignments were received by Sandeep Mathukiya from a person from Hotel Zinzer in Agartala. That man knew Ahmed in Bangladesh first-hand,” an investigator said. “The stock was brought to Ahmedabad by air,” he added. Investigators said the racketeers had brought Ninavir 100 manufactured by Incepta Pharmaceuticals Ltd in Dhaka, Bangladesh. “The consignments also included Remivir 100 manufactured by Esakayef Bangladesh. All purchases were made without bills and without verification,” a crime branch official said. Those who have been booked in the case until now include Vishali Goyani of Bopal, Darshan Soni of South Bopal, Shekhar Adroja of Bopal, Parth Goyani of Bopal, Sandeep Mathukiya of Vastrapur, Yashkrmar Mathukiya of Surat and Shabbir Ahmed of Bangladesh. Following a tip-off that remdisivir was being sold in the black market in Surat, The Food and Drug Control Administration (FDCA) had sent a decoy customer to whom two injections were sold without bill for Rs 36,000 by Yashkumar Mathukiya, a cousin of Sandeep Mathukiya . Mathukiya is also allegedly involved in the scam, added a crime branch source. Crime branch investigators said they are hunting for the accused as all have gone underground after the searches conducted by the FDCA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/remdesivir-smugglers-sent-rs-82cr-through-angadia/articleshow/77249611.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Bhubaneswar||‘Home quarantine mandatory before swab test results come in'||KORAPUT: Worried over the increase in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the district through local contacts, the Koraput district administration has decided upon compulsory home quarantine of people, whose swab samples have been collected for laboratory tests, till the report comes in. “It has come to our notice that after giving swab samples for Covid-19 tests, people are moving freely in the open, which is very risky. As it takes two to three days to get the test report, in that time period, they may spread it to others, if they are positive,” said collector (Koraput) Madhusudan Mishra. He said the the person will give an undertaking at the swab collection centre in a specially designed format to remain in home quarantine till the result comes. “If he or she is found to be violating the home quarantine rules, then legal action will be taken against them. Police complaints could also be registered,” the collector said. While 59 out of 73 Covid-19 positive cases found in the district on Tuesday were contacts, 58 out of 66 persons, who tested positive for the coronavirus on Wednesday are local contacts. Even though the district’s Covid-19 tally touched 621 on Tuesday, the district administration appealed to people not to worry and follow the prescribed protocols to contain the spread of the disease. As the door-to-door health screening in the district’s urban areas is on for Covid-19, many suspected cases are being tested for which there has been a rise in the Covid-19 positive cases in the district in the past few days, the collector said. “However, there is nothing to panic and we appeal all to follow the precautionary measures like wearing masks, maintaining social distance and wash hands properly,” he added. Also, the administration has launched an integrated health survey across the district under which door-to-door survey is being conducted for at least six types of diseases, including coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/home-quarantine-mandatory-before-swab-test-results-come-in/articleshow/77248252.cms||Satyanarayan Pattnaik
July 30, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Lockdown brings Kandhamal turmeric trade to grinding halt||BHUBANESWAR: The business of Kandhamal haldi (turmeric), which had received the GI tag on April 1 last year, has been badly hit owing to the lockdown. Farmers also faced difficulties in marketing this cash crop this year. The Kandhamal Apex Spices Association for Marketing (KASAM), an apex body of 61 spice development societies in the district, had sold around 1,200 tonne of haldi last year. But this time it has managed to sell only 70 tonne so far. “Our association comprising 12,000 farmers has already procured more than 600 tonne of Kandhamal haldi from them this year, but we could not market it because of the lockdown and the pandemic. Four months have already passed, but our business is not picking up,” Sanjit Kumar Pattnaik, secretary of KASAM, said. He added, “Haldi is a major spice found in every Indian household. But Kandhamal haldi is famous for its uniqueness and aroma. The GI tag has helped us market the product effectively. This variety of turmeric is popular in foreign countries. It is organic by default. We generally export 95% of our procurement to the USA, Europe, Australia, Japan, Korea and other countries through our 60 clients. But the Covid-19 has hampered our business,” he added. Around 40,000 farmers in the district produce approximately 1.3 lakh metric tonne (MT) of raw turmeric on 12,710 hectares per year. After drying, it comes down to 26000 MT. While KASAM procures around 2,000 MT of dry turmeric, the rest is purchased by the traders. “Other traders did not come to the district owing to the lockdown. Farmers are facing problems in selling their products. “These traders also work as middlemen and pay less than the KASAM. Owing to lack of any procurement system like paddy in the district, farmers face distress sale every year,” Nilambar Pradhan, a farmer from Daringibadi in Kandhamal district, said. Raja Karna, a haldi farmer from Phiringia block in Kandhamal district, said they harvest haldi in the month of January and February. After processing and drying it, they sell it in April and May. “This year, farmers could not sell their products in April because of the lockdown restrictions. Traders did not come to purchase their haldi. Many farmers are waiting to sell their product,” he added. He further said the district administration had helped farmers sell their haldi in May. Some traders had even purchased the product. But it was very less compared to the last year's business, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/lockdown-brings-kandhamal-turmeric-trade-to-grinding-halt/articleshow/77248277.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
July 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Cousins thrashed in a road rage case||Ludhiana: A group of miscreants have allegedly thrashed two cousins on Ferozepur road in a case of road rage on Tuesday night. The cousins were returning home after attending a birthday party in Agar Nagar. The victims are identified as Kuldeep Singh, 28, and Yadwinder Singh, 27, of Gobind Avenue of Ferozepur road. In his complaint to police, Kuldeep said as they were returning home in their car after the birthday party in Agar Nagar, three to four vehicles were behind them. The cars were honking, so he decided to give them a way. As soon as he slowed down his car towards the left, to give way to the cars of the accused, the accused stopped their cars ahead of them. He added, before they could understand anything, one of the accused came near there car and started arguing. The accused snatched gold bracelet of Yadwinder. When both Kuldeep and Yadwinder alighted from the car, the accused thrashed them. According to Kuldeep, they escaped from there to save their lives and reached home. But the accused had alleegdly chased them to their house. The accused then trespassed their house and thrashed them again. Thereafter, Kuldeep’s father had to open fire in the air from his licensed pistol after which the accused escaped. Investigating officer assistant assistant sub-inspector Amarjeet Kumar said a case has been registered against accused Gagandeep Singh of Rano Payal village in Khanna, Jagga Singh of Phullanwal village in Kaka Pehalwan, Amrit Singh and 10 unidentified accused under sections of 452 (house trespassing), 379-B (snatching), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (Punishment for wrongful restrain), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (Rioting, armed with deadly weapons), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cousins-thrashed-in-a-road-rage-case/articleshow/77250723.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Nagpur||Nag-Mum e-way to be ready by Dec 2021||Nagpur: The Nagpur-Mumbai super expressway would be ready by December 2021 and people will be able to travel on the six-lane road from Nagpur to Aurangabad by July 2021, Radheshyam Mopalwar, managing director of Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC), told the media on Wednesday. Work on the expressway, officially known as Hindu Hridaysamrat Balasaheb Thackeray Samruddhi Mahamarg, is 40% complete, said Mopalwar. “The stretch falling in Vidarbha has been divided into seven packages. The package-wise progress is: I – 50 %, II – 34%, III – 53%, IV – 44%, V – 4%, VI – 47% and VII – 20%. The work on package V was slow and so we asked the contractor to sign an agreement with the contractor of package VI. This has been accomplished and now work is going on in full swing,” he added. Mopalwar told the media that the project will generate employment of up to five lakh over the next decade. “MSRDC has taken the initiative to provide skill development training to youngsters from the 23,000 families whose land has been acquired for the project. These youngsters will get employment opportunities in the new towns which will be set up along the expressway. According to IDFC, the employment generation potential of the project is 20 lakh jobs but our estimate is 5 lakh only,” he said. As many as 20 new towns will be set up along the expressway, out of which 10 will be set up in Vidarbha region. Vijay Waghmare, joint MD of MSRDC, said, “MSRDC has adopted an eight-phase programme. This programme includes inception, geo reference mapping, existing land use study, market study and demand assessment, preparing of concept map or visioning wherein the expected development of a particular area over the next decade, its principal occupation and other factors are studied, drafting development plan, preparing final report and submission of final report. MSRDC has completed the first five phases.” To a query, Mopalwar said that the project had only been 15% affected by the lockdown. On the bullet train, he said that as per the Mumbai-Nagpur bullet train project report, the alignment would be along the railway line. “There will be a greenfield alignment from Jalna to Akola. There is no proposal of laying the track along the Mahamarg,” he added. The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government had reduced the loan burden of MSRDC for the project from Rs28,000 crore to Rs25,000 crore by increasing the state government equity. Mopalwar said that the money had not been taken back despite financial crunch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nag-mum-e-way-to-be-ready-by-dec-2021/articleshow/77249606.cms||Ashish Roy
July 30, 2020||Dehradun||Cabinet gives nod to new promotion rules to prevent employees from escaping hill postings||Dehradun: In its meeting on Wednesday, the state cabinet took some crucial decisions regarding postings in hill districts. The cabinet chaired by CM Trivendra Rawat gave its nod to new promotion rules so as to tighten the noose on those state government employees who leave their promotions in order to escape hill postings. Till now, state government employees used to refuse promotions to avoid compulsory transfer-with-promotion to the hills of Uttarakhand. However, the promotion post denied by the employee was not considered vacant, creating problems for the junior employees. According to cabinet minister and state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik, now the employees will have to compulsorily accept their promotion within 15 days or must give in writing the pressing reason for their refusal. In case of refusal, the post will be considered vacant and someone else will be given a chance on that post. In yet another significant decision, the Cabinet also approved of transferring an eight-hectare land worth Rs 2.88 crore, belonging to the sericulture department, for the construction of National Institute of Technology (NIT) campus at Sumari. The land will be given free of cost. For construction of Ex-servicemen Contributory Health Scheme (ECHS) Polytechnic at Ranipokhari, the cabinet approved 0.07-hectare land and an amount of Rs 38.50 lakh. Also, the name of Uttarakhand Technical University has now been changed to Veer Madhav Singh Bhandari Uttarakhand Technological University. In all, a total of 30 issues were brought before the Cabinet while discussions were held on 27 matters and a committee was formed to discuss an undisclosed matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cabinet-gives-nod-to-new-promotion-rules-to-prevent-employees-from-escaping-hill-postings/articleshow/77246837.cms||Gaurav Talwar
July 30, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Enforce strict compliance of social distancing norms or a lockdown’||Ludhiana: As the number of cases of Covid-19 are witnessing an increase in Ludhiana district, many social media users are suggesting various measures, including imposition of curfew for sometime, on the official Facebook page of the district administration. According to the latest state media bulletin, Ludhiana district has witnessed 735 new cases and 22 deaths in the last seven days. One of the netizens, Mohan Swaroop, wrote on district public relations office page, which is used by deputy commissioner to hold Facebook Live, “Sir, please enforce lockdown in Ludhiana for 10 days minimum — because cases increasing day by day — so corona chain can be broken”. Another netizen Pankaj Sood wrote, “Please enforce curfew and lockdown in Ludhiana for 15 days. It’s required. Cases are growing day by day.” Another netizen Nitin Thapar wrote “Sir, please think about enforcing a curfew for at least 15 days, it is need of the hour. Sir, wealth is not important then health”. Another netizen complained that people are not wearing masks in public. “Please increase the fine for mask violators to Rs 5,000, Rs 500 seems like nothing for many people and frequently people are not wearing masks. And make it mandatory to wear at least a surgical mask, cloth or cotton is of zero use for Covid-19 virus,” wrote Vikas Arora. Another netizen wrote about lack of strictness on weekend curfews. Amit Kumar Sharma said the authorities should make sure that shops do not open on Saturdays and Sundays. Netizens are also writing on the Ludhiana police page. Naval Kishore Kaura wrote: “The police must act tough on various eateries flouting the law by being open even after 9pm. Wonder what is preventing police from acting tough. Perhaps, the preparation of these eateries is too good to refuse for the area officials concerned.” Baaldeep Bakshi, while reacting to a post on “Covid-19 affects different people in different ways” by Ludhiana police on it’s Facebook page, wrote in Hindi asking administration to keep the public in the loop about its various measures. Meanwhile, social activists said in the current scenario, when cases are witnessing such a rise, administration should either enforce norms strictly or should impose lockdown for more than a week. “The spurt in cases is alarming and we have lost many persons in the last few days. The only solution to check such jump in cases and deaths is to either impose lockdown or enforce norms related to Covid including being strict with those violating norms by not wearing masks and not maintaining social distancing,” said Keemti Rawal, a social activist who lost his brother in law to disease recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/enforce-strict-compliance-of-social-distancing-norms-or-a-lockdown/articleshow/77250755.cms||Shariq Majeed
July 30, 2020||Nagpur||Full lockdown with curfew plan dropped; Four-T programme to control Covid-19 announced||Nagpur: Guardian minister Nitin Raut along with top officials of the district took a decision not to impose a 15-day full lockdown with curfew in the district till the end of August. A Four-T programme has been chalked out which will be implemented by the administration in association with NGOs to control Covid-19 positive deaths. On July 18, Raut along with home minister Anil Deshmukh had given consent for full lockdown with curfew and asked a committee under divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar to chalk out a detailed plan. On Friday, Raut held a meeting with divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, CP Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay, collector Ravindra Thakre, CEO of Zilla Parishad Yogesh Khumbajkar and officials of state’s health department and deans of two Dedicated Covid Hospitals. “All the authorities came to the conclusion that a full lockdown with curfew will not serve any purpose in the present scenario. I request people not to believe in any rumours related to full lockdown with curfew from now onwards,” said Raut. “The need of the hour is to control Covid-19 positive deaths. the main problem is that hospitals are receiving positive patients in critical condition due to which the mortality rate is on the rise. Also, hospitals as well as the civic body are facing serious issues due to staff shortage. We have launched a Four-T programme—tracing, tracking, testing and treating—to detect positive patients and give them treatment from an early stage,” added Raut. The minister also held a meeting with representatives of various NGOs who assured to help the administration in containing Covid-19 by providing food soldiers, a call centre, paramedics and help desk. “We will establish a help desk in all 38 wards in the city. Testing will be done followed by creating awareness, receiving complaints, helping in treatment or admission of patients etc. MSEDCL has contact numbers which will be used for creating awareness about the Four-T programme,” said Raut. GMCH and IGGMCH were directed to start testing patients by using rapid antigen kits. “Hospitals are also facing a problem of class-IV employees like attendants and sanitary workers. I have asked them to get sufficient manpower from private agencies. As far as doctors and paramedical staff are concerned, I will make efforts on the government’s behalf,” he said. Raut also held a meeting with representatives of the Vidarbha Industries’ Association (VIA) and assured all necessary help for boosting the economy of the district and roll back of the commercial and industrial sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/full-lockdown-with-curfew-plan-dropped-four-t-programme-to-control-covid-19-announced/articleshow/77284938.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Jagga Reddy taken into custody||HYDERABAD: Congress MLA T Jagga Reddy was taken into police custody while he was heading towards Sangareddy government hospital to stage a dharna on Wednesday. He alleged that patients being referred to Gandhi Hospital were not returning alive. “I had told the Sangareddy hospital superintendent not to refer a woman patient to Gandhi Hospital, but he did not pay heed to my advice. Now, she has died at Gandhi Hospital undergoing treatment,” he said. He said police could arrest him but they cannot stop him always. “I will expose how the TRS government, particularly district incharge minister T Harish Rao, has failed in controlling coronavirus, which is resulting in deaths of several people,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jagga-reddy-taken-into-custody/articleshow/77249612.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Vijayawada||Tiger land in Telangana, AP going to the dogs?||HYDERABAD: Are domestic dogs taking over tiger reserves in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh? The ‘Status of Tigers, Co-predators and Prey in India’ report released by the Centre on Wednesday revealed that the canines are the most photographed animals on camera traps in Amramad and Kawal tiger reserves in Telangana and Srisailam in Andhra Pradeh. Nationally, the Udanti-Sitanadi Tiger Reserve in Chhattisgarh tops in domestic dog population followed by Kawal. The Nagarjunsagar-Srisailam Tiger Reserve (NSTR) in AP comes in third with Amrabad just a peg below. Experts say tribals living in forest habitations and poachers train some of these dogs to kill small animals, while cattle grazers use them to keep their herd together. However, packs of dogs have also been known to bring down the odd deer and chase bigger animals. National Tiger Conservation Authority assesses the magnitude of human disturbances within tiger reserves using relative abundance index (RAI) formed with help of camera trap images of livestock, free-ranging domestic dogs, wild animals, poachers with arms or poached carcasses. “While free-ranging dogs abounded in Udanti-Sitanadi, Kawal, NSTR, Amrabad, Sariska and Kali reserves, feral dogs were detected in most reserves. Dogs are a threat to both ungulates (which they hunt) and to carnivores, since they carry infectious diseases like rabies, parvovirus, and distemper virus,” said NTCA in the report. The report also revealed that RAI for poaching incidences were recorded for Udanti-Sitanadi, Palamau, NSTR, Amrabad, Dudhwa, Kanha, Pench-MP and other tiger reserves. “Armed poachers were detected in Palamau TR, Amrabad TR and Udanti Sitanadi TR. Decline and lack of improvement in the status of Udanti-Sitanadi, Achanakmar, Amrabad, Palamu, NSTR and Dampa Tiger Reserves can be correlated with a high disturbance regime and poaching,” the report adds. Imran Siddique of Hyderabad Tiger Conservation Society said, “Poachers with domestic dogs trained to hunt have even been captured on camera traps in interior areas.” Telangana and Andhra government have allowed cattle grazing in tiger reserves. Wildlife department OSD A Shankaran said, “In tribal habitations and villages within the tiger reserves, each family raises a dog or two. Over time, their population increases. The dogs do have those wild instincts. As they live both near habitations and in the wild and in packs, they even hunt sambar.” Instances of wild dog killing deer have been reported not only in tiger reserves but from green patches like the University of Hyderabad as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tiger-land-in-t-ap-going-to-the-dogs/articleshow/77255303.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
July 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Tiger land in Telangana, AP going to the dogs?||HYDERABAD: Are domestic dogs taking over tiger reserves in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh? The ‘Status of Tigers, Co-predators and Prey in India’ report released by the Centre on Wednesday revealed that the canines are the most photographed animals on camera traps in Amramad and Kawal tiger reserves in Telangana and Srisailam in Andhra Pradeh. Nationally, the Udanti-Sitanadi Tiger Reserve in Chhattisgarh tops in domestic dog population followed by Kawal. The Nagarjunsagar-Srisailam Tiger Reserve (NSTR) in AP comes in third with Amrabad just a peg below. Experts say tribals living in forest habitations and poachers train some of these dogs to kill small animals, while cattle grazers use them to keep their herd together. However, packs of dogs have also been known to bring down the odd deer and chase bigger animals. National Tiger Conservation Authority assesses the magnitude of human disturbances within tiger reserves using relative abundance index (RAI) formed with help of camera trap images of livestock, free-ranging domestic dogs, wild animals, poachers with arms or poached carcasses. “While free-ranging dogs abounded in Udanti-Sitanadi, Kawal, NSTR, Amrabad, Sariska and Kali reserves, feral dogs were detected in most reserves. Dogs are a threat to both ungulates (which they hunt) and to carnivores, since they carry infectious diseases like rabies, parvovirus, and distemper virus,” said NTCA in the report. The report also revealed that RAI for poaching incidences were recorded for Udanti-Sitanadi, Palamau, NSTR, Amrabad, Dudhwa, Kanha, Pench-MP and other tiger reserves. “Armed poachers were detected in Palamau TR, Amrabad TR and Udanti Sitanadi TR. Decline and lack of improvement in the status of Udanti-Sitanadi, Achanakmar, Amrabad, Palamu, NSTR and Dampa Tiger Reserves can be correlated with a high disturbance regime and poaching,” the report adds. Imran Siddique of Hyderabad Tiger Conservation Society said, “Poachers with domestic dogs trained to hunt have even been captured on camera traps in interior areas.” Telangana and Andhra government have allowed cattle grazing in tiger reserves. Wildlife department OSD A Shankaran said, “In tribal habitations and villages within the tiger reserves, each family raises a dog or two. Over time, their population increases. The dogs do have those wild instincts. As they live both near habitations and in the wild and in packs, they even hunt sambar.” Instances of wild dog killing deer have been reported not only in tiger reserves but from green patches like the University of Hyderabad as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tiger-land-in-t-ap-going-to-the-dogs/articleshow/77251608.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
July 30, 2020||Dehradun||Lockdown, e-filing bring down cases filed in HCs by almost 60%||Nainital: The Covid-19-induced lockdown and the move towards e-filing in most high courts in the country have together led to the number of cases filed in 23 high courts in the country dipping by over 60% in the period between March and July this year, compared to the corresponding period last year. As per details obtained from the National Judicial Data Grid, which maintains data for all high courts (except Delhi and Bombay), over 7.29 lakh cases (both civil and criminal) were filed in the 23 high courts in the period March to July last year, while the number came down to 2.87 lakh cases in the same period this year. According to the data, the maximum impact was in April, right after the lockdown was announced when courts were either shut or had imposed restrictions on the entry of litigants. This was when the number of cases filed in high courts across the country dropped to 6% of what it was in April last year. In Uttarakhand, cases filed in the high court at Nainital dropped by 97% compared to last year. The sharpest dip was in Patna HC (down from 14,506 to 24, a 99.8% drop). The Orissa HC, with a 64% drop, had the smallest change. But courts quickly adapted and allowed e-filings and online hearings. The numbers picked up, but not enough. As of Wednesday, the number of cases filed in Uttarakhand HC is just 55% of what it was in July last year. The biggest dip, despite the shift to virtual hearings and e-filing, has been in Gujarat HC, still at 1% of the numbers last year. In fact, its figures have gone down since April, when it was 7% of the numbers last year. High courts in smaller states — Manipur (having received 93% of the number of cases last year), Meghalaya (101%) and Himachal Pradesh (105%) — have picked pace, as has Orissa (96%). But the number of cases in at least nine courts has gone down by half or more in July. So why does the gap persist? Lawyers said the online shift could take time getting used to. “Not all lawyers have access to high-speed internet. And that is not the only problem. Even if you have the setup, connections are not always reliable. Others just lack the technical expertise,” said Kartikey Hari Gupta, a senior lawyer in the Uttarakhand high court. “It is not a replacement for physical hearings yet,” he added. Guidelines for e-filing state a lawyer must be registered on the e-courts site and file the details with a digital signature, after which an e-filing admin approves the case. PS Bisht, chairperson of the Uttarakhand High Court Bar Association, added that “a number of lawyers were not coming to the courts because of the Covid scare which is another reason for the dip in cases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lockdown-e-filing-bring-down-cases-filed-in-hcs-by-almost-60/articleshow/77246885.cms||Prashant Jha
July 30, 2020||Ludhiana||Give masks free with sweets, rakhis: DC to shopkeepers||Ludhiana: To popularise the use of masks, sweet shop owners, who have been allowed to keep their shops open this Sunday to facilitate the Raksha Bandan celebration, are urged to give free masks with purchases. This was suggested by the deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Wednesday, when he had met the traders to brief them about protocols. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh had recently announced that the sweet shops will be allowed to remain open on August 2, a day before the Raksha Bandhan festival, despite the Sunday lockdown in place in the state. During the meeting, the DC urged the union members to give two masks free of cost with the purchase of sweets in order to promote and popularise the use of masks. Similarly, shops selling rakhis are also being nudged to give free masks on purchase of rakhis. The meeting was also attended by additional DC Sandeep Kumar, district health officer Dr Rajesh Garg, Sweet Shop Owners Association president Narinder Singh, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/give-masks-free-with-sweets-rakhis-dc-to-shopkeepers/articleshow/77250761.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||New RERA portal launch deferred||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat Real Estate Regulatory Authority (Gujarat RERA) has deferred the launch of its new portal, called RERA 2.0, which was to be rolled out on August 1 after incorporating suggestions from real estate stakeholders. “Considering the Covid-19 pandemic and representations from real estate developers’ associations, the authority has decided to defer implementation of the final version of the new portal till further orders,” the state regulator said in its order issued on July 28. On July 27, various associations of real estate developers requested the authority to postpone the rolling out of the new portal citing problems faced due to the Covid-19 pandemic and sought more time to study the new version. The new portal was originally to be implemented from June 26. However, it was pushed back till August 1 as realtors wanted more time to adapt to the new portal. They were also given time till July 26 to submit their suggestions with regard to the new portal. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/new-rera-portal-launch-deferred/articleshow/77249610.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Pune||Senior citizen jumps to death from flat||Pune: An 81-year-old woman jumped to her death from her ninth-floor flat at Dahanukar Colony in Kothrud around 6am on Wednesday. Senior inspector Kalpana Jadhav of the Alankar police told TOI that it was a case of suicide. “The woman jumped from the air-condition duct of the flat around 6am when her son and daughter-in-law had gone out for their morning walk. She was immediately taken to the Sassoon General Hospital where the doctors pronounced her dead.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/senior-citizen-jumps-to-death-from-flat/articleshow/77250757.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Vijayawada||HC rejects bails plea of Atchannaidu and others accused in ESI scam||VIJAYAWADA: The high court on Wednesday rejected the bail pleas of the accused in ESI scam, including former minister K Atchannaidu, the then ESI director Ramesh Kumar, Murali Mohan, personal assistant of former labour minister Pitani Satyanarayana and one Subba Rao, a medical supplier. All the accused moved the high court after the ACB court rejected their petitions. The ACB opposed the bail pleas as the investigation into the multi-crore scam is at a crucial stage. The investigation agency had argued that as the persons involved in the scam are influential, the investigation process is likely to get hampered. As crucial evidence in the case are yet to be collected, the accused should not be released on bail at this juncture, the ACB argued. On the other hand, the accused presented their cases individually, arguing that getting bail is their legitimate right as they have been cooperating with the investigation agency. Atchannaidu’s counsel argued that the he was arrested by the ACB in an illegal manner without following due procedure. Besides, there was no need for him to stay in remand as the details pertaining to his alleged role have been collected by the ACB and there is no conclusive evidence against him to prove his role in the alleged scam, he said. The high court had earlier reserved the judgement after hearing the arguments on all sides. Delivering the judgement on Wednesday, the high court rejected the bail pleas upholding the arguments of the ACB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-rejects-bails-plea-of-atchannaidu-and-others-accused-in-esi-scam/articleshow/77248279.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Webinar as part of Global tiger day||HYDERABAD: As part of the international tiger day celebration, a webinar was conducted by Telangana forest department in coordination with Nehru Zoological Park and Animal Warriors Conservation Society. The programme was conducted from the tiger enclosure at Nehru Zoological Park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/webinar-as-part-of-global-tiger-day/articleshow/77249616.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Tiger land in Telangana, AP going to the dogs?||HYDERABAD: Are domestic dogs taking over tiger reserves in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh? The ‘Status of Tigers, Co-predators and Prey in India’ report released by the Centre on Wednesday revealed that the canines are the most photographed animals on camera traps in Amramad and Kawal tiger reserves in Telangana and Srisailam in Andhra Pradeh. Nationally, the Udanti-Sitanadi Tiger Reserve in Chhattisgarh tops in domestic dog population followed by Kawal. The Nagarjunsagar-Srisailam Tiger Reserve (NSTR) in AP comes in third with Amrabad just a peg below. Experts say tribals living in forest habitations and poachers train some of these dogs to kill small animals, while cattle grazers use them to keep their herd together. However, packs of dogs have also been known to bring down the odd deer and chase bigger animals. National Tiger Conservation Authority assesses the magnitude of human disturbances within tiger reserves using relative abundance index (RAI) formed with help of camera trap images of livestock, free-ranging domestic dogs, wild animals, poachers with arms or poached carcasses. “While free-ranging dogs abounded in Udanti-Sitanadi, Kawal, NSTR, Amrabad, Sariska and Kali reserves, feral dogs were detected in most reserves. Dogs are a threat to both ungulates (which they hunt) and to carnivores, since they carry infectious diseases like rabies, parvovirus, and distemper virus,” said NTCA in the report. The report also revealed that RAI for poaching incidences were recorded for Udanti-Sitanadi, Palamau, NSTR, Amrabad, Dudhwa, Kanha, Pench-MP and other tiger reserves. “Armed poachers were detected in Palamau TR, Amrabad TR and Udanti Sitanadi TR. Decline and lack of improvement in the status of Udanti-Sitanadi, Achanakmar, Amrabad, Palamu, NSTR and Dampa Tiger Reserves can be correlated with a high disturbance regime and poaching,” the report adds. Imran Siddique of Hyderabad Tiger Conservation Society said, “Poachers with domestic dogs trained to hunt have even been captured on camera traps in interior areas.” Telangana and Andhra government have allowed cattle grazing in tiger reserves. Wildlife department OSD A Shankaran said, “In tribal habitations and villages within the tiger reserves, each family raises a dog or two. Over time, their population increases. The dogs do have those wild instincts. As they live both near habitations and in the wild and in packs, they even hunt sambar.” Instances of wild dog killing deer have been reported not only in tiger reserves but from green patches like the University of Hyderabad as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tiger-land-in-t-ap-going-to-the-dogs/articleshow/77255300.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
July 30, 2020||Amaravati||Tiger land in Telangana, AP going to the dogs?||HYDERABAD: Are domestic dogs taking over tiger reserves in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh? The ‘Status of Tigers, Co-predators and Prey in India’ report released by the Centre on Wednesday revealed that the canines are the most photographed animals on camera traps in Amramad and Kawal tiger reserves in Telangana and Srisailam in Andhra Pradeh. Nationally, the Udanti-Sitanadi Tiger Reserve in Chhattisgarh tops in domestic dog population followed by Kawal. The Nagarjunsagar-Srisailam Tiger Reserve (NSTR) in AP comes in third with Amrabad just a peg below. Experts say tribals living in forest habitations and poachers train some of these dogs to kill small animals, while cattle grazers use them to keep their herd together. However, packs of dogs have also been known to bring down the odd deer and chase bigger animals. National Tiger Conservation Authority assesses the magnitude of human disturbances within tiger reserves using relative abundance index (RAI) formed with help of camera trap images of livestock, free-ranging domestic dogs, wild animals, poachers with arms or poached carcasses. “While free-ranging dogs abounded in Udanti-Sitanadi, Kawal, NSTR, Amrabad, Sariska and Kali reserves, feral dogs were detected in most reserves. Dogs are a threat to both ungulates (which they hunt) and to carnivores, since they carry infectious diseases like rabies, parvovirus, and distemper virus,” said NTCA in the report. The report also revealed that RAI for poaching incidences were recorded for Udanti-Sitanadi, Palamau, NSTR, Amrabad, Dudhwa, Kanha, Pench-MP and other tiger reserves. “Armed poachers were detected in Palamau TR, Amrabad TR and Udanti Sitanadi TR. Decline and lack of improvement in the status of Udanti-Sitanadi, Achanakmar, Amrabad, Palamu, NSTR and Dampa Tiger Reserves can be correlated with a high disturbance regime and poaching,” the report adds. Imran Siddique of Hyderabad Tiger Conservation Society said, “Poachers with domestic dogs trained to hunt have even been captured on camera traps in interior areas.” Telangana and Andhra government have allowed cattle grazing in tiger reserves. Wildlife department OSD A Shankaran said, “In tribal habitations and villages within the tiger reserves, each family raises a dog or two. Over time, their population increases. The dogs do have those wild instincts. As they live both near habitations and in the wild and in packs, they even hunt sambar.” Instances of wild dog killing deer have been reported not only in tiger reserves but from green patches like the University of Hyderabad as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/tiger-land-in-t-ap-going-to-the-dogs/articleshow/77255301.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
July 30, 2020||Vadodara||Woman gets obscene photos on WhatsApp||Vadodara: A draftsman working in a private company in Savli taluka was shocked when an unidentified person sent obscene photos to his wife through WhatsApp on her phone. The man Rajesh Panchal registered an offence at Makarpura police station for insulting religious beliefs and under Information Technology Act on Tuesday. According to Panchal, when he was surfing from his wife’s mobile phone on the night of July 24, an unidentified person sent a message on WhatsApp. When Panchal asked him about his identity, he was asked to make a video call. On making the video call, the unidentified person showed his private parts to Panchal so he hung up. Later, the accused sent several obscene photos and obscene stickers of Gods. Panchal took a screenshot of the messages and then threatened the person of registering police complaint. The sender then deleted the messages which he had sent and did not message again. Panchal then tried to find out about the sender with the help of his friend Vishal Patel. But when the duo could not get any details of the mobile number, Panchal approached police on Tuesday and lodged an offence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/woman-gets-obscene-photos-on-whatsapp/articleshow/77247633.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Pune||Youngster held on assault charge||Pune: A youth (20) was arrested and a minor boy was booked on Tuesday for attacking a grocery businessman and his wife with a stick around 8pm on Monday following a dispute over not offering them soft drink and packaged drinking water as he had closed his shop at Shivnerinagar in Kondhwa. The arrested youth has been identified as Eshwar Thakare from Shivnerinagar. Sub-inspector Niketan Nimbalkar from the Kondhwa police on Wednesday said the police had issued a notice to the parents of the minor boy, asking them to cooperate in probe. Nimbalkar said, “The suspects picked up a dispute with Muzammil Ansari, the shop owner, over the issue. Ansari’s wife intervened and tried to pacify them, but in vain. The suspects then hit Ansari’s wife with a stick. She got four stitches on her head.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youngster-held-on-assault-charge/articleshow/77250764.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Pune||Trio rob firm manager of Rs 3.3 lakh in daylight||PUNE: Three persons riding triple seat on a motorcycle assaulted a manager (69) of an edible oil firm with a sharp weapon and robbed his bag containing cash Rs3.3 lakh near Shivaji Maharaj statue at Market Yard around 1pm on Wednesday. Police identified the victim as Sumantilal Ostwal, the manager of M M Nahar Edible Oil Store at Gangadham Chowk. The victim got eight stitches on his head, besides suffering injuries in hands and on shoulder. Ostwal’s employer, Raikumar Nahar, told TOI, “Ostwal is my relative. He was going to the Pune People’s Cooperative Bank on his scooter and had kept the cash bag on the footrest of his two-wheeler. When he took a left turn from the Market Yard Chowk towards the bank, the three suspects came from the rear and intercepted his scooter.” Nahar said, “Two of them got down and started an argument with Ostwal. They snatched his bag and started moving towards their bike. Ostwal then tried to stop them, but one of them attacked him with a sharp weapon.” Assistant commissioner of police (Wanowrie division) Sunil Kalgutkar told TOI, “The robbery appears to be well-planned. Ostwal told us that the suspects picked up a dispute with him claiming that his scooter had grazed their bike.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trio-rob-firm-manager-of-rs-3-3-lakh-in-daylight/articleshow/77250762.cms||Asseem Shaikh
July 30, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Centre’s new education policy gets thumbs up from experts||BHUBANESWAR: Academicians and educationists welcomed the National Education Policy (NEP) unveiled by the Centre on Wednesday. Utkal University vice-chancellor S M Patnaik said the new education policy is going to bring a paradigm shift in higher education. “There is a greater emphasis on liberal arts and philosophy in the policy. These are important aspects of learning. A student of engineering can take up a paper in philosophy and get credits for this. Less attractive social science subjects will become more attractive now. The NEP gives more emphasis on flexibility and student friendly education,” Patnaik said. Sambalpur University vice-chancellor Deepak Kumar Behera said the flexibility in NEP is to be admired and appreciated. “A proper coordination between the Centre and state is highly essential for smooth execution of the NEP. All stakeholders (students, teachers, research scholars, academic administrators, employees and parents) should be given orientation on the NEP through different platforms,” Behera said. “Adequate infrastructure and extra fund are required to implement the NEP to the fullest. The policy looks quite promising and ambitious. However, the success depends on its effective and time bound implementation,” he added. Asoka Kumar Das, vice-chairman of Odisha State Higher Education Council, said this is a wish-list policy for everybody. “However, there is no clear definition of its operational viability at the grass roots level. State universities and institutions in the aspirational areas are the real grass roots. States must have a dominant voice in the relevant policy decisions to be implemented by higher education council of India. There should be a mechanism to allow states to play a dominant role in the council,” he felt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/centres-new-edu-policy-gets-thumbs-up-from-experts/articleshow/77248286.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
July 30, 2020||Cuttack||Government lives in hope as Covid positive cases decline in Odisha||BHUBANESWAR: In what could be heartening development for the state, there seems to be a gradual decline in number of fresh positive cases despite 1,068 more testing positive on Wednesday. While the new cases took the virus load to 29,175, this is the lowest addition in more than a week. Health minister Naba Kishore Das said there is a noticeable fall in the number of new infections, particularly in the worst-affected Ganjam district. “This is a heartening development. Things should improve from here. However, there is no scope to lower our guard as any laxity may cost us dear,” Das said. The health minister said the mortality rate in Odisha (0.54%) remains far lower than the national average of 2.2%. “With plasma therapy, the mortality rate may go down further as the government focuses on saving lives,” he said. On Wednesday, five more people died, raising the virus toll to 159. Doctors from other districts, who have been deployed in Ganjam keeping in mind the situation there, will be gradually withdrawn as the situation improves and repatriated to their original places of posting, Das added. In Ganjam, 245 more tested positive for the virus, the lowest in the past eight days, though the number is still highest among the districts. Among others Khurda (194), Sundargarh (112), Gajapati (88), Koraput (66) and Cuttack (61) contributed to the bulk of the new infections. Of the 194 cases in Khurda, 137 are from Bhubaneswar. Ajay Parida, director of Institute of Life Sciences, said the situation in high case load districts of Ganjam, Khurda, Cuttack and Jajpur seems to be improving though Rourkela city continues to report spurt in the number of new cases. “In Cuttack, Bhubaneswar and Berhampur, the number of new infections are declining. Such a trend should hopefully continue because there has been aggressive contact tracing and testing of people with symptoms,” Parida said. The 1068 positive cases were from 10,750 samples tested. A day earlier, 1215 had tested positive from among 9113 samples. The new deaths include men aged 46 and 50 from Balasore and Kandhamal besides three women from Puri (55), Ganjam (60) and Makangiri (62). A two-year old Covid positive girl from Bhadrak district expired due to congenital heart disease with cardiac failure, raising the number of deaths of Covid patients due to non-Covid reasons to 36. Meanwhile, as many as 878 Covid-19 patients recovered, raising the number of cured to 18,939. The state now has 10,041 active positive cases, which is close to the number of active positive cases in Delhi (10,770), Rajasthan (10,745) and Kerala (10,350).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/govt-lives-in-hope-as-positive-cases-decline/articleshow/77257435.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Mumbai||More women with Covid antibodies than men, finds BMC sero survey||MUMBAI: It is perhaps a simple coincidence or Covid’s blatant gender bias but the BMC sero survey released on Tuesday showed that more women than men had antibodies to the novel coronavirus. As it is data from across the world shows that fewer women get Covid-19 compared to men. In some countries, twice as many men as women have succumbed to the viral infection. In Mumbai, too, only 45% of the patients are women as against 55% male patients. The BMC’s sero survey, which revealed that more than half of the slum-dwellers in three wards had antibodies to Covid-19, showed that 59.3% of the total 2,297 women surveyed had antibodies. In contrast, 53.2% of the 1,937 men surveyed had antibodies.“Apart from the high sero-positive rate we found in the slums, the higher rate in women was the other significant finding,” said Dr Ullas Kolthur of TIFR, which along with Niti Aayog and the BMC conducted the survey. The reason could be sociological and biological differences, said Dr Jayanthi Shastri, who heads the BMC’s Molecular Diagnostics Laboratory located within Kasturba Hospital. Dr Kolthur added, “Women’s social behaviour is such that they intermingle more and, hence, are more exposed. It could also have some physiological reason, we cannot be sure at the moment.” A day after the test results were declared, BMC’s additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “We are inching towards herd immunity.’’ He, however, said it now more important than ever to observe personal hygiene and sanitisation and wear masks for the next couple of months. The survey highlighted the spread due to asymptomatic patients. “The spread of the virus from asymptomatic to asymptomatic is very low because the viral load itself is low. But the probability of spread from symptomatic to asymptomatic is high. When the BMC decided to quarantine symptomatic persons, the spread was contained,” said Kakani. The sero-survey’s findings also showed positivity rate was lower among the 25-40 age group as against the 60-plus age group. The researchers, however, said that the difference wasn’t statistically significant as the sampling was done earlier when there was not much movement of people. Dr Shastri said tenement sizes in slums are so small that there is hardly any place for the old to be isolated. “They could have caught the infection from younger people. It’s a coincidental finding that more of the elderly have antibodies,’’ she said. The BMC data showed nearly similar findings across the three wards. While non-slum pockets had 16% sero-positive rate, the slums in the F North ward, which include those across Matunga and Wadala, showed a positivity of 58%, M-West showed 57% and R North 51%. The survey’s findings led to a talk on herd immunity on social media. However, Dr Kolthur said, “Herd immunity amongst the slums will be reached faster, though it is still a big if. It would depend on transmission rate, population density and how long the immunity will last.’’The next leg of the survey, scheduled to start in the same three wards between August 10 and 15, will help find the answers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/more-women-with-covid-antibodies-than-men-finds-bmc-sero-survey/articleshow/77251371.cms||Malathy Iyer
July 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Experts differ over focus on vocational education in schools||NEW DELHI: The intent on promoting teaching in the mother tongue till middle school and the focus on early childhood education in the New Education Policy (NEP) are being seen as good steps for school education. However, there are differing views on the increased importance of vocational education at the school level. NEP defines nursery-Class II as pre-primary education, Class III-V as primary, Class VI-VIII as middle school and classes IX-XII as secondary education. Anita Rampal, professor and former dean, faculty of education, Delhi University, said, “The policy has segregated classes I and II with the anganwadi education. This carries the danger of minimalising the two school years, with some institution possibly considering them merely as play years. Children aged five and six years can handle things in challenging ways, provided they are given resources.” While Jyoti Arora, principal, Mount Abu Public School, Rohini, called NEP a progressive policy that gave proper guidelines on continuous and comprehensive evaluation, some experts were unsure about the push to vocational education. “The policy document wants school and college education to ultimately have 50% of students going into vocational education,” said Rampal, explaining that vocational education in India isn’t as creative and meaningful as in other countries. “Here, the vocational courses are designed by the industry and not by educationists,” she pointed out. “Clubbing these four years is like telling students that if they are not good at something, they can opt for vocational education.” Other school principals, however, believe that vocational education is a step in the right direction. Ameeta Mulla Wattal of Springdales School, Pusa Road, declared, “The policy dignifies vocational education and provides opportunities to children. There are many professions children can take up.” Wattal was also of the opinion that NEP would bring an end to rote learning and the obsession with marks. “As learning is going to be holistic and experiential, it will mean the closure of coaching institutes. Education will be based on inquiry and research. And children will be catered to in a personalised manner, thus helping develop scientific temper,” the Springdales principal said. “At present, there is a huge gap between what the industry wants and the kind of children who are emerging from our education system.” While Ashok Pandey, director, Ahlcon Group of Schools, highlighted the fact that NEP talked not about acquiring degrees but of community building, he also said that since India was a signatory of the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations, the new education policy would help “to attain goal number four, which is quality education for all and lifelong learning”. However, R Govinda, former vice-chancellor, National University for Educational Planning, thought NEP hadn’t bridged the disconnect between the system and the ground reality in India. He said, “Implementing the mother tongue and supporting early childhood education are good to listen to. But we have to see what has worked and what hasn’t. The most important thing we have to attain is learning for all children in school. This policy doesn’t say how they are going to bring about that change.” Govinda said that setting up some organisation at the national level wouldn’t make a village schoolboy learn better. “There is a disconnect of some sort with ground reality. This is what bothers me,” he said. “We want structural reforms but when the existing system does not work, how can you change the structure? What is required is organisational strengthening.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/experts-differ-over-focus-on-vocational-edu-in-schools/articleshow/77250784.cms||Shradha Chettri
July 30, 2020||Pune||Pune: Ten-day total lockdown a hurdle on recovery path of real estate||PUNE: The real estate market seemed to be emerging just out of what was the worst downturn in its history, seasoned realtors said. The registration of houses and land was down 28% in June as against the month last year. This was an improvement over May 2020, which recorded a year-on-year decline of over 75%. July 2020 was showing an improvement over June 2020 in terms of sales and the price commanded for each realty unit or land sold. However, the 10-day total lockdown imposed from July 14 put a spanner in recovery of the sector that draws in over Rs 1,200 crore of development premium to the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad civic bodies. With two business days to go, July 2020 might see a trend similar to June 2020 despite the fact that the major markets, such as Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, were in a total lockdown for 10 days of the month. The per day registration fell to 2,300 in July, due to the 10-day lockdown in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation limits, as against 2,700 a day in June. Over 110 properties are registered a day in two jurisdictions. “No lockdown can stop the spread of the virus. Nut the economy will certainly be under lockdown for a long time,” said Atul Chordia, director, Panchsil Realty. There is a preference for only ready-to-occupy stock as investors and end users are looking at projects they feel will keep them out of risk. As a consequence, all the properties under construction are not even getting requisite enquiries. “Ready-to-occupy homes are selling like hot cakes, but they are only about 10%-15% of the inventory available for sale. The lockdown has stalled the real estate industry, as many workers have left and very little activity is possible with the in-situ workers. That is not how the sector works,” said a Pune-based realtor, who has a few lakh square feet under construction. It is not just the new houses. Even the old homes are being sought at throw-away prices as those with margin money see this as an opportunity to graduate from rented accommodation to owning a house. “There are a lot of deals in the pipeline, but people are expecting it at a low cost. For example, a one BHK house which quoted Rs75 lakh in the Kothrud area in January 2020 is being now negotiated at Rs 55-60 lakh,” said Sattar Sayyad, Pune-based property consultant and founder of Ashiyana Real Estate. Most brokers are unanimous that it all depends on how desperate the sellers are to make a deal about their properties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ten-day-total-lockdown-a-hurdle-on-recovery-path-of-real-estate/articleshow/77250765.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
July 30, 2020||Goa||PWD officials get ‘certificate of excellence’ for bad work||Margao: Adopting a novel way of condemning the “haphazard” work executed by PWD, the Margao Shadow Council presented a “Certificate for Excellent Engineering” to the PWD works Division XIV as they carried out the repairs of the road junction near Navelim church. Savio Coutinho of the Margao Shadow Council said it was done “to bring to the fore the negligence of PWD which doesn’t understand the factors responsible for the repeated damage to the said spot”. He said that the absence of a proper drainage system for the storm water to drain off, coupled with the movement of heavy vehicles leads to the asphalt getting dismantled during the very first showers.  He also warned of taking to the streets if the state of the location deteriorates again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pwd-officials-get-certificate-of-excellence-for-bad-work/articleshow/77250770.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Bhubaneswar||29 patients given plasma in Odisha so far; five cured, 15 improving fast||BHUBANESWAR: As many as 29 Covid patients have been given plasma therapy in the state so far. While five persons are already been cured, 15 others are improving fast.  Five patients, who had received plasma, have died. Till the reports came, eight plasma units were issued to Ashwini Hospitals, six units to SUM Hospital, 12 units to KIMS, nine units to Ganjam, two units to Tata Steel Medica, Jajpur, one unit each to Hi-Tech, Rourkela, Sparsh Hospital and Apollo Hospital. A student of SCB Medical College and Hospital, Cuttack, who has recovered from Covid-19, donated plasma on Wednesday. She is the first female plasma donor of the state, said sources in the health and family welfare department. Four personnel of Odisha Police also donated plasma on Wednesday at SCB Medical College and Hospital. Plasma therapy has been started in the state since July 15. So far, more than 50 people have donated plasma. Pankaj Kumar Parida, head of transfusion medicine department, SCB Medical College, said the plasma of a Covid recovered patient has antibodies to fight against SARS-CoV-2. “If we give this plasma to a serious patient, the antibodies in the plasma try to neutralize the virus in the patient’s body. It is working well and many patients are benefitting,” he added. The government has created a portal in which Covid-19 patients, who have recovered, can voluntarily register to donate plasma. The state government has planned to open three more plasma banks at IGH, Rourkela, VIMSAR, Burla and MKCG Medical College and Hospital, Berhampur. Chief secretary Asit Tripathy had recently said the state government would intensify awareness drive to promote plasma donation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/29-patients-given-plasma-in-state-so-far-five-cured-15-improving-fast/articleshow/77248297.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
July 30, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Government lives in hope as Covid positive cases decline in Odisha||BHUBANESWAR: In what could be heartening development for the state, there seems to be a gradual decline in number of fresh positive cases despite 1,068 more testing positive on Wednesday. While the new cases took the virus load to 29,175, this is the lowest addition in more than a week. Health minister Naba Kishore Das said there is a noticeable fall in the number of new infections, particularly in the worst-affected Ganjam district. “This is a heartening development. Things should improve from here. However, there is no scope to lower our guard as any laxity may cost us dear,” Das said. The health minister said the mortality rate in Odisha (0.54%) remains far lower than the national average of 2.2%. “With plasma therapy, the mortality rate may go down further as the government focuses on saving lives,” he said. On Wednesday, five more people died, raising the virus toll to 159. Doctors from other districts, who have been deployed in Ganjam keeping in mind the situation there, will be gradually withdrawn as the situation improves and repatriated to their original places of posting, Das added. In Ganjam, 245 more tested positive for the virus, the lowest in the past eight days, though the number is still highest among the districts. Among others Khurda (194), Sundargarh (112), Gajapati (88), Koraput (66) and Cuttack (61) contributed to the bulk of the new infections. Of the 194 cases in Khurda, 137 are from Bhubaneswar. Ajay Parida, director of Institute of Life Sciences, said the situation in high case load districts of Ganjam, Khurda, Cuttack and Jajpur seems to be improving though Rourkela city continues to report spurt in the number of new cases. “In Cuttack, Bhubaneswar and Berhampur, the number of new infections are declining. Such a trend should hopefully continue because there has been aggressive contact tracing and testing of people with symptoms,” Parida said. The 1068 positive cases were from 10,750 samples tested. A day earlier, 1215 had tested positive from among 9113 samples. The new deaths include men aged 46 and 50 from Balasore and Kandhamal besides three women from Puri (55), Ganjam (60) and Makangiri (62). A two-year old Covid positive girl from Bhadrak district expired due to congenital heart disease with cardiac failure, raising the number of deaths of Covid patients due to non-Covid reasons to 36. Meanwhile, as many as 878 Covid-19 patients recovered, raising the number of cured to 18,939. The state now has 10,041 active positive cases, which is close to the number of active positive cases in Delhi (10,770), Rajasthan (10,745) and Kerala (10,350).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-lives-in-hope-as-positive-cases-decline/articleshow/77248293.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Dehradun||NEP provisions good but implementation will be key, say educationists in Doon||Dehradun: The new education policy (NEP), approved by the Union government on Wednesday, received a mixed response from those in the academic fraternity. While teachers and educationists appreciated steps like usage of mother tongue as a medium to teach up to Class V and a single regulatory body for higher education (excluding legal and medical), some said that the policy looks too ambitious and expressed doubt if it will ever get transformed into reality. Annpurna Nautiyal, vice-chancellor of Hemvati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University, the only central university of Uttarakhand, said that it’s a very ambitious policy and it has kept the transformation of all levels, from childhood to school to college in mind. “They have changed the old formula of 10+2 to 5+3+3+4 and have increased the investments in educational fields. The ministry has laid great emphasis on research, innovations and practical education which is the need of the hour. The new policy is also talking about a multidisciplinary approach which will help remove the typical regimentation that only the science students can study science and so on,” she said, while adding that reduction in curriculum to core concepts and introduction of vocational integration from Class VI onwards are also great steps. Ajay Saksena, principal of DAV PG College, the oldest college in Dehradun, also felt that the NEP has a great potential to improve the current education system, adding that it’s difficult to visualise though how things would be implemented on ground. “They mentioned holistic development which is a good thing but in terms of education, I feel that a scientific approach is needed. The points like multidisciplinary research and innovations sound wonderful but I feel that it’s in the mind of the employers that unless you are not from core subjects, you are unemployable. So how they will transform things will be interesting to watch,” he said, adding that a cap on the fee structure of educational institutions was a much-needed step so that education is available to all. Nandita Sahu, principal of Ecole Globale International Girls School, said that the NEP is a very important move and stress on online education is “an extremely timely" step. “As a child, even our imagination takes place in our mother tongue which we speak mostly at home. So this step of introducing mother tongue in school education will help the child to develop cognitively,” she said. Meanwhile, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat congratulated Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank for bringing a new education policy in the country after almost three decades and said that the new education policy will be helpful in shaping the future of India. “It envisages spending 6% of GDP on education and education in mother tongue up to Class V which is a wonderful step. The new education policy has been designed to meet the challenges of the times, incorporating traditional values,” said Rawat.  .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nep-provisions-good-but-implementation-will-be-key-say-educationists-in-doon/articleshow/77246911.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 30, 2020||Bareilly||Post office clerk booked for embezzling Rs 1.48 lakh in insurance premiums||Pilibhit: The police on Tuesday evening booked a clerk at the deposit counter of the Pilibhit head post office for misappropriating Rs 1,48,534 deposited by investors, following a written complaint filed by the assistant postmaster, Ajai Kumar Jain.The clerk is accused of deleting from the post office’s computerized system, entries of premium amounts deposited against post office life insurance policies and rural post office life insurance policies, and then pocketing the money.The accused, Ashish Kumar Verma, who lives in village Rauni under Launi Katara police station in district Barabanki, had been caught during the screening of deposited installments of insurance premium. He confessed to have embezzled premiums of 18 insurance policies between July 31, 2018 and April 30, 2019.The SHO of Sungarhi police station, Atar Singh, said the accused was booked under Section 409 (criminal breach of trust by a public servant or by a banker) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/post-office-clerk-booked-for-embezzling-rs-1-48-lakh-in-insurance-premiums/articleshow/77243623.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||NRI moves HC for wife’s custody, says in-laws confining her||Ahmedabad: A non-resident Indian (NRI) has knocked at the doors of the Gujarat high court seeking custody of his wife, after his in-laws brought her to India two months ago and are now allegedly not allowing her to return to Canada, where the couple lives. The high court ordered police to produce the woman before it through video-conferencing by May 8, as her husband expressed apprehensions that his in-laws may take an extreme step against her because of her marriage to him. Her family did not like the marriage because he is from another caste. The petitioner is from Rajasthan and his wife is from a small village near Mehsana. Both of them had gone to Canada for higher studies. They fell in love and started living together in Canada, because the husband has permanent residency. They got white-collar jobs and decided to get married. Their marriage was registered with the registrar general of Ontario on January 26, 2018. The petitioner submitted that he was living happily with his wife in Canada until his wife’s parents visited them. They persuaded his wife two accompany them to India with the promise to fulfil certain rituals. She came to India and he has not heard from her since. He alleged that his in-laws have taken his wife’s travel documents so that she cannot return to Canada. It has also been alleged that his wife was not allowed to communicate to him. She sent an email to her office, from where he came to know about the situation and has come to India to take her back with him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nri-moves-hc-for-wifes-custody-says-in-laws-confining-her/articleshow/77249631.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP’s Chalo Mallaram march foiled||PARKAL: As a preventive measure, police detained several BJP leaders, including MLC Ramachandra Rao, former minister Motkupally Narsimhulu, state secretary G Premedar Reddy and Ch Sambamurthy, while they were on their way to participate in the ‘Chalo Mallaram’ march on Wednesday. The march was organised by the party to protest the murder of a 37-year-old Dalit man, Revuli Rajababu, at Mallaram village on July 6, allegedly by a TRS member. It is said that arguments over politics had led to the murder of Rajababu. Parkal police detained the leaders while they were on their way to Mallaram and rleased them later. Goshamahal MLA T Raja Singh and former MP G Vivek were detained in Chennapuram village of Regonda. BJP state secretary Premendar Reddy condemned the detention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjps-chalo-mallaram-march-foiled/articleshow/77249621.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
July 30, 2020||Pune||Small entrepreneurs opt out of renting office spaces, shift to online mode||PUNE: Sanjay Shinde has decided to focus more on online business instead of renewing the contract of his rented office space in the Shivajinagar area. The entrepreneur working in the field of IT-related services attributed his decision to the drop in business caused by the lockdown restrictions. Young entrepreneur Rahul Vispute, who runs a pest control and related service, now meets his clients online for discussions with travel restrictions triggering a drop in footfall at his office. “There is no point in paying the rent when the clients are not visiting the office. During the two months of the lockdown, the office was almost shut. The owner wll not waive the rent,” he said. Real estate industry sources said the agreements for rental spaces have recorded a considerable drop since the outbreak of the pandemic and the ensuing pandemic Real estate broker Vishal Shah said there has been a nearly 50% drop in rent agreements. Sattar Sayyad of Ashiyana real estate said, “Those who had around 4,000 sqft rented properties for their offices are now ready to settle for a 1,000 sqft facility.” Dipak Nikam who has a firm for brand building and promotions, said he has not renewed the rental contract of his office operating from the outhouse of a bungalow. “My partner and I decided to terminate the contract and work from home till the situation becomes normal,” he said. Inspector General of Registration (IGR) officials confirmed that there has been a drop in the overall document registrations. The registration offices in the city were closed during the 10-day total lockdown from July 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/small-entrepreneurs-opt-out-of-renting-office-spaces-shift-to-online-mode/articleshow/77250767.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 30, 2020||Pune||Two of a gang in net for duping steel traders||PUNE: The Bhosari police unravelled the modus operandi of a gang of conmen duping steel traders across states on Tuesday after arresting a duo in connection with cheating businessman Parashuram Bhosure of Rs 38 lakh recently. Investigation revealed that the gang had duped steel traders from Mumbai and Nagpur in Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Telangana. “Two of their accomplices are absconding,” sub-inspector Mahendra Gadhave of the Bhosari police said. The gang used to get numbers of steel traders on the internet and contact them as prospective customers. “They created a fake company and shared its documents with traders,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-of-a-gang-in-net-for-duping-steel-traders/articleshow/77250768.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19 patient dies 3 days after delivering healthy baby||Nagpur: Battling severe pregnancy related complications and Covid infection, a 20-year-old woman passed away late Tuesday night, three days after giving birth to a healthy baby boy at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hosptial (IGGMCH). “This is first case in city when a Covid positive mother died after the delivery,” deputy medical superintendent (corona patient care) Dr Sagar Pandey told TOI. “Saving the unborn baby was important to us. The patient’s condition was serious when she was admitted with full labour pains. She also had pregnancy hypertension, which causes further complications. The delivery was performed by putting her on ventilator,” he said. Dr Pandey said her test results came after the caesearan confirming she had Covid. “She remained on ventilator for one and half days. The baby was healthy and was kept in other ward before being handed over to the relatives. The newborn’s test is not advisable at the moment but if he develops symptoms, he can be tested,” Pandey said. Resident doctors Dr Lata Asudani and Dr Deepti Kadam were at the frontline in treating the woman. The C-section was done under supervision of head of obstrectics and gynaecology department and medical superintendent Dr Ravi Chavhan. Dr Bitey, incharge of medicine department, provided support. So far, several corona positive expecting moms have delivered babies and have been discharged after 14-day isolation. This young woman was driven in an ambulance from Multai, 127km from here in Madhya Pradesh, to IGGMCH on Sunday night. Same night she delivered through C-section while her swab was collected later. She tested positive on Monday evening. She was a native of Kamptee where her body was laid to rest amid supervision of zilla parishad officials. Her uncle, an office bearer of Kamptee Municipal Council, said they were told the mother and newborn were doing well. “On Monday, we were told suddenly her BP shot up and she would be shifted to Covid ward where she breathed her last,” he said. Asked why was she brought to Nagpur, the uncle said they wanted his niece’s delivery done at private hospital which was not available at her husband’s town in Multai. The newborn was taken back to Multai by his father on Wednesday. Relatives also alleged several private hospitals in Kamptee refused to admit the patient, who got married last year. “When she started from Multai, we approached a couple of private hospitals but they told us to directly take her to any of the government hospitals,” the uncle said. Of late, Kamptee has emerged as a Covid hotspot with 514 cases and nine deaths. The woman’s death was added in Nagpur city’s tally of 10 on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-patient-dies-3-days-after-delivering-healthy-baby/articleshow/77249628.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 30, 2020||Dehradun||Chopper service starts from Doon to Garhwal hills, aims to boost Char Dham tourism||Dehradun: The first government-run intrastate chopper service in Uttarakhand that connects Dehradun to Garhwal hills was flagged off on Wednesday with an eye on boosting tourism to Badrinath, one of the four revered Char Dham shrines. The flight on the Dehradun-New Tehri-Srinagar-Gauchar route — which is operated by the state-run Pawan Hans Limited (PHL) under the central government’s Regional Connectivity Scheme of Ude Desh Ka Aam Nagrik (RCS-UDAN) — was flagged off virtually by minister of civil aviation Hardeep Singh Puri and Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat. After inaugurating the service, civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri said, “With this we have added six more routes and two heliports at New Tehri and Srinagar. These routes provide much-needed air connectivity to people of the hill state and are affordable.” The airfare between Dehradun’s Jolly Grant Airport and New Tehri has been fixed at Rs 2,903 and the distance will be covered in 25 minutes. One has to spend a similar amount to travel on Tehri-Srinagar route and Srinagar-Gauchar route. Government officials are hoping the heli-service would boost the Char Dham Yatra tourism since Dehradun now has direct connectivity with Gauchar in Chamoli district which houses Badrinath temple. Local residents have welcomed the move. Tehri resident Kamal Rawat, who works in Dehradun, said it generally takes over three hours to reach Tehri from Dehradun by road. “Now one can reach in 25 minutes. This is a welcome move.” The Narendra Modi government had launched the UDAN scheme in 2016 to improve regional air connectivity. At least half of the seats in UDAN flights are offered at subsidised fares.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/chopper-service-starts-from-doon-to-garhwal-hills-aims-to-boost-char-dham-tourism/articleshow/77246923.cms||Gaurav Talwar
July 30, 2020||Bareilly||Rotary Club Green members & caterer booked for lockdown violation||Pilibhit: Police on Tuesday evening booked 16 members of Rotary Club Green at Puranpur, along with a caterer, for violating COVID-19 social distancing norms by organising the club’s election meeting on the previous Sunday, which was a day of lockdown. The club management had not obtained any official permission from a competent authority for the meeting.In his written complaint filed to the station house officer of Puranpur Kotwali police station SK Singh, sub-inspector Nirdesh Kumar Chauhan said the meeting was arranged by club members despite the weekend lockdown and imposition of Section 144 of CrPC in the district.The SHO said the defaulters were booked under sections 188 (obedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rotary-club-green-members-caterer-booked-for-lockdown-violation/articleshow/77243638.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fees taken from RTE students, parents allege||Ahmedabad: The parents of some students of Muktjivan School in Isanpur on Wednesday complained that they were forced to pay tuition fees for their children though they are eligible for free education under the Right to Education (RTE) Act. There are 40 students in the pre-primary section who have been denied their rights, they said. The district education officer (DEO) has received complaints of four such cases so far. DEO R C Patel said that RTE admissions for the pre-primary section in schools are yet to begin hence such claims by parents need to be closely examined. “If the school is found to have violated RTE norms, we will initiate strict action against it,” said Patel. “Also, parents who have paid fees despite being eligible for the RTE waiver will get their money back.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fees-taken-from-rte-students-parents-allege/articleshow/77249626.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Pune||Duo misuse e-signature||Pune: The cybercrime police have filed a case against two persons for cheating a rubber company based at Vimannagar by misusing the digital signature of the company’s manager and illegally selling the enterprise’s product, worth Rs1.45 crore, to other companies. According to the cybercrime police, the incident occurred between September 2019 and February. The company officials came to know about the cheating only during checking the accounts this year. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-misuse-e-signature/articleshow/77250771.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi rains: Agencies on their toes to prevent waterlogging||NEW DELHI: Barring parts of south and central Delhi, where heavy rain was recorded on Wednesday, there were light showers in most parts of the city. The irregular rain spell made it easy for the public works department to drain out water from vulnerable spots, said an official. PWD teams are put on high alert during any rain forecast to avoid traffic jams and fatalities, said a senior official. Water suction pumps at Mandi House and Burari were started as soon as it started raining, he added. East Delhi’s monsoon report showed that waterlogging took place in Shahdara and Mansoravar Park, and trees feel due to gusty wind at multiple locations, including in C Block of Jhilmil Colony, Nand Nagri, Jagatpuri Extension and Vishwakarma Gate near Main Mandoli Road. By evening, all waterlogging complaints were addressed and local maintenance teams are removing fallen branches and trees, said an official of East Delhi Municipal Corporation. South Delhi received rain in some pockets, resulting in waterlogging in the South and Central zones. No monsoon-related complaint was received from the Najafgarh and West zones while waterlogging was reported from Shaheen Bagh and Okhla in the Central zone. North Delhi Municipal Corporation also saw minimal disruption in regular life. Waterlogging complaints were received from Karala near Mangolpuri, while a tree fell near Naraina Vihar railway station and a wall was partially damaged. As stagnant water results in waterborne diseases like dengue, PWD has planned to use suction water pumps in every park and other such locations on any rainy day. Unlike earlier, the department won’t wait for the rainwater to dry up on its own, an official said. PWD officials have been advised to take necessary steps for the removal of stagnant water after every rain. The executive engineer (civil and electrical) concerned will have to coordinate with various agencies such as New Delhi Municipal Council, three corporations, Delhi Jal Board and the railways by personally contacting them and working as a team at the local level. These engineers will be held responsible if a problem doesn’t get resolved, an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/agencies-on-their-toes-to-prevent-waterlogging-/articleshow/77250769.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Hyderabad||GWMC mulling separate place to bury Covid victims||WARANGAL: The Greater Warangal Municipal Corporation (GWMC) on Wednesday said it is identifying land for designated burial and cremation grounds for Covid-19 victims within the GWMC limits. The move will help Covid-19 victims get a dignified burial or cremation in the wake of rising cases of discrimination and stigma towards the bodies of Covid -19 victims. At a meeting with corporation officials, GWMC commissioner Pamela Satpathy said that a 12-member team will be constituted for the task. She said the municipal corporation will arrange ambulances for shifting of the bodies and ordered the staff to seek permission from the kin of the deceased for performing the last rites. In some places, people have expressed concern over the bodies of those who died of the coronavirus being buried in their neighbourhood. Several instances across the country highlight rising cases of discrimination against bodies of Covid-19 victims with families refusing to give the dead a dignified burial or cremation. The commissioner ordered the staff to convert the GWMC guesthouse and community halls in Machilibazar and Janamkonda into isolation centres for municipal staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gwmc-mulling-separate-place-to-bury-covid-victims/articleshow/77249632.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
July 30, 2020||Mumbai||SSC 90% club nearly trebles in Maha, grows 172% in city||Mumbai: The state board has recorded its best SSC result in at least 15 years with a success rate of 93.3% for both fresh and repeating candidates—up from 75.5% last year. The number of Class X students with a perfect 100 rose to 242 from 20 in 2019, and those with over 90% increased to 83,262 from 28,516. In line with the state’s trends, the Mumbai division, which includes Mumbai, Palghar, Raigad and Thane, also recorded its probable best success rate of 93.1%— up from last year’s 74.9%. In Mumbai, the number of students with a score of above 90% increased from 5,399 last year to 14,756 this year. The division, though, had only two of the perfect scorers. With 151 students, the largest share came from the Latur. This year, the state board could not conduct the Class X Geography paper due to the Covid-19 situation. Students were scored based on the average scores in the other theory papers. Social sciences, of which Geography is a part, saw a success rate of near 100% at both the state and division level. Board officials said the improved results could be attributed to the return of the internal assessment, orals and activity-based question papers in languages and social sciences after a year’s break. The higher scores but would mean tougher competition at the most sought after junior colleges in the city. Shakuntala Kale, chairperson of the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education, said, “Last year’s results were hit due to the cancellation of internal exams. After a lot of hue and cry, internals were reintroduced and we have the best results in 15 years. The number of students scoring 100 % by virtue of extra marks for excelling in arts and culture, sports and other extra-curricular activities has also increased as a result.” Around 1.8 lakh of the 17.5 lakh students in Maharashtra have got grace marks for excelling in extra-curricular activities with 32,007 students from the Mumbai division. On top of the table among the nine divisions was Konkan with an overall success rate of 97.7%. The lowest success rate of 90.2% was recorded by the Aurangabad division. Among the fresh candidates in the state, 95.3% cleared the exam while 75.9% of repeat candidates passed. In Mumbai, the success rate among freshers was 96.7%, above the state average, and 72.5% of the repeaters passed. The success rate among repeaters in the Mumbai region last year was merely 28.3%. In 2019, the results were impacted as the board decided to withdraw the 20 marks weightage to oral and internal assessment in languages and social sciences. Principals in the city too said the results were a reflection that overturning the decision had worked in the favour of students. “If there were instances of schools not marking students properly during the internals, the state should focus on improving the system. It isn’t fair to deprive all students of a chance to score well in orals and practicals. Not all of them can express their best while writing the papers. The last batch of SSC students suffered because of the move,” said an SSC school principal. State minister Aaditya Thackeray whose Yuva Sena had led the demand to bring back the internal assessment on Wednesday tweeted, “Last year, the Yuva Sena had protested and demanded the reinstating of internal assessment and marks, after which they were reinstated by the State. Here we go, it has improved the score and assessment means.” Like each year, girls outperformed boys at both state and divisional level. “Our school has seen a 100% success rate for the 10th year in a row. Most of our students have secured above 90% and I hear that most schools have students who have done well. I’m glad because everyone is going through a difficult time and the young students were not able to appear for all the examination papers leading to a lot of anxiety," said Rupa Roy, principal, Balmohan Vidyamandir, Dadar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ssc-90-club-nearly-trebles-in-maha-grows-172-in-city/articleshow/77251395.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
July 30, 2020||Pune||22-year-old hangs self||Pune: A 22-year-old woman was found hanging from the ceiling fan of her home at Dhayari late on Tuesday afternoon. The Sinhagad Road police said the reason for suicide was yet to be ascertained. According to the police, the woman hanged herself while she was alone at her home. Her family members had gone out for some work. Police said that the woman was working in a small firm on Sinhagad Road. However, due to the lockdown, the firm shut down and she was out of work. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/22-year-old-hangs-self/articleshow/77250774.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Nagpur||Kamptee cantt hospital gets testing kits||Nagpur: The cantonment hospital at Kamptee finally got Covid testing kits on Wednesday. There were demands that apart from the two government hospitals in the town, even the hospital within the cantonment should be provided with the kits. TOI had reported the matter that even as the hospital catered to a large number of civilian population living within the cantonment, no kits for testing were available there. Deepak Siriya, deputy president of Kamptee Cantonment Board who confirmed the development, said the kits reached around 11 am. Meanwhile, two more persons were tested positive. One of them is an employee of the cantonment board office and the other a resident of Gora Bazaar locality in the cantonment, said Siriya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kamptee-cantt-hospital-gets-testing-kits/articleshow/77249634.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Madam, client held for sex racket||Ahmedabad: Krishnangar police on Tuesday raided a house in the Auda Housing Colony in Krishnanagar and busted a sex racket. Police rescued a 25-year-old woman from Bengal and detained two persons, Saroj Goswami and client named Bajrangsinh Chandavat. According to police sources, the police control room got a message that a prostitution racket was being run at a house in the Auda Housing Colony. “We kept watch near the house. As the client went up, we raided the house. We rescued a woman from Bengal and detained Goswami, who was running the operation, and the customer, Chandavat,” said a Krishnanagar police official. Police sources said that during her interrogation, Goswami said she would call clients to the place and would charge them Rs 500 each. She would give half to the woman. “Condoms were found during the search. We have sent both Goswami and Chandavat for Covid-19 tests,” said a police official. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/madam-client-held-for-sex-racket/articleshow/77249636.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress, TRS slug it out over party office building||HYDERABAD: Tension prevailed in Manuguru town on Wednesday with Congress and TRS members fighting over the party office building with each claiming it as their own. CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka along with Bhadrachalam MLA Podem Veeraiah, former Union minister Balram Naik and party leaders from Khammam took part in a relay hunger strike on Wednesday in protest against the party office allegedly encroached upon by TRS. Naik said they would also launch a legal battle to take back the party office. Later, Vikramarka led a delegation to the municipal commissioner and submitted a memorandum, demanding that notices be issued to the occupants and the Congress party office be vacated. However, MLA R Kantha Rao said it was built from his own expenditure and as such, he changed it into a TRS office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-trs-slug-it-out-over-party-office-building/articleshow/77249726.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Solid waste management plant inaugurated||HYDERABAD: A Solid Waste Management unit was inaugrated in Aziznagar, Ranga Reddy district on Wednesday by Gandipet Welfare Society. Amoy Kumar, the collector of Rangareddy district participated in the inauguration. Society members have converted a three acre dumpyard into a SWM unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/solid-waste-mgmt-plant-inaugurated/articleshow/77249644.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Pune||Peers give Rs 2.5 lakh to wife of deceased Covid volunteer||PUNE: Volunteers from the Dattawadi area handed over a cheque of Rs2.5 lakh to the wife of fellow frontline worker Hamid Inamdar (39) — popular for his work as a special police officer (SPO) in Janata Vasahat, one of the biggest slums in the city — after he contracted Covid-19 and passed away at a private hospital on July 26. Inamdar was among the volunteers assigned the role of SPO by the Pune police for supporting the latter’s effort in containing the spread of Covid-19. The Pune police chief, K Venkatesham, posted a tweet on his official Twitter handle acknowledging the deceased volunteer’s service. Senior inspector Devidas Gheware of the Dattawadi police said, “Inamdar was well versed in computer operations, headed the local Mitra Mandal and helped the police in creating awareness about Covid-19. He educated people about the need for taking precautions and distributed ration kits among poor and needy people in interior parts of the slums. He also helped migrants reach their respective states.” Inamdar’s wife, Naaz, told TOI, “My husband aspired to become a police officer. He was happy when he was assigned the SPO’s role. We did not celebrate Ramzan Eid this year and distributed the money to charity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/peers-give-rs-2-5-lakh-to-wife-of-deceased-ncov-volunteer/articleshow/77250776.cms||Asseem Shaikh
July 30, 2020||Delhi||Bail denied to man who robbed bride during northeast Delhi riots||NEW DELHI: A bride was robbed of cash and jewellery during her wedding in the midst of northeast Delhi riots when a mob allegedly attacked her. A Delhi court has denied bail to a man who was arrested in the case filed by the woman’s father, who identified the accused from CCTV footage. Police said a Delhi government’s CCTV camera was analysed and on scrutiny the accused was identified by the complainant. “During arguments, CCTV footage was played where the applicant/accused can be seen breaking the CCTV camera. He is found to be an active member of unlawful assembly,” said chief metropolitan magistrate Purshotam Pathak. Sajid, who was represented by counsel Vinay Kumar, sought bail on the ground that he had no criminal record and cops had filed two FIRs for offences committed at the same time. Special public prosecutor Jinendra Jain opposed the bail plea saying the applicant was involved in rioting, arson and vandalism. Sajid was arrested on July 13 and investigation against him was at an initial stage, the court said. “I do not deem it fit to release the applicant/accused on bail,” it held.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bail-denied-to-man-who-robbed-bride-during-riots/articleshow/77250773.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Chennai||Class XI board exam results on July 31||Chennai::The directorate of government examinations in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday announced that Class XI board exam results will be declared at 9.30am on July 31. More than eight lakh students have appeared for the exams conducted from March 4 to 23. The final exam scheduled to be conducted on March 26 was cancelled due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Students can access their results on www.tnresults.in, www.dge1.tn.nic.in and www.dge2.tn.nic.in. The results would be sent through SMS to the students’ registered mobile numbers. The dates for revaluation, retotalling and answer sheets copy will be announced later. Along with the Class XI board exam results, results of 519 absentees who appeared for Class XII exam on Monday will also be announced. The state government cancelled the Class X board exams due to Covid-19. “The process of awarding marks to these students is over. The Class X results also can be expected in a few days,” an official said. Chennai: With reopening of colleges delayed, the state higher education department on Wednesday asked universities to begin online classes for students from August 3. This is to ensure that students are taught for the mandatory academic hours for the next semester. The government has promoted all students, except those in the final year, to the next academic year without exams. The higher education department convened an online meeting with vice-chancellors of state universities to discuss reopening of colleges, reducing the syllabus and awarding marks for cancelled exams. Higher education minister K P Anbalagan chaired the meeting along with higher education secretary Apoorva. “It was decided to begin online classes for second and third year students from August 3. For conducting a semester, the colleges need at least 90 working days or 450 hours of classes. Due to the prevailing condition, 90 working days in the present semester is not possible hence it was decided to take classes for 450 hours,” a higher education department official said. As per the decision, the academic year will start throughout the state on August 3. “The meeting also decided to publish the marks or results of candidates who were promoted without exams within two or three weeks,” the official said. The state government has decided to give 70% weightage for internal exams and 30% weightage for previous semester exams while deciding marks for college students for exams cancelled due to Covid-19. For allied and optional subjects, 100% weightage will be given to internal assessment. Students have to appear separately for arrear exams. The vice-chancellors also decided in the meeting to close the first year admission to UG and PG courses before September 10. The state government is waiting for the Supreme Court’s judgement on conducting final year exams for college students. It is also waiting for a reply from the HRD ministry to a letter from chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami requesting the ministry to cancel the final year exams due to the prevailing situation. “We have discussed with vice-chancellors on reopening of colleges and closing the admissions for first year. We are yet to take a final decision on starting online classes,” higher education minister Anbalagan said. He said 70% of students in colleges have access to digital devices with internet and the remaining 30% students may be provided with other resources such as video lessons on their laptops or in pen drives. “We are holding a video-conference meeting with college principals on Thursday. After that we will take a decision on conducting the classes,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/class-xi-board-exam-results-on-july-31/articleshow/77249669.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||1,500 to take GTU PG exams on Thursday||Ahmedabad: The annual exams for colleges affiliated to GTU (Gujarat Technological University) will begin from Thursday and about 1,500 candidates are expected to take the online tests. The exams will be set in the MCQ (multiple choice questions) format and will be conducted for master’s degree courses including MBA, MCA, and ME. The varsity will conduct the final-year exams for diploma and undergraduate courses from August 4. As many as 28,000 students are expected to take these exams. Every test paper will be of 70 marks and the duration will be 70 minutes. In all, 56 questions will be asked in each test. “Only those students who registered by taking the online trial test on July 28 can take the online exams beginning from Thursday,” said Navin Sheth, the vice-chancellor of GTU. Other options include pen-and-paper tests to be held from August 17 and special exams to be conducted in September. Students who did not register for the online exams can take the written or special exams, said sources. After giving three options to students for taking the Summer 2020 college exams, GTU received responses from about 29,500 students who have opted for the online MCQ exams. GTU had extended the deadline for choosing the exam option to July 25 for students of final-semester undergraduate, postgraduate, and diploma courses. Earlier, the deadline was July 23. Candidates can take the online MCQ exams using laptops, desktops, tablets, or cellphones. A consistent internet speed of 512kbps is recommended. If students do not have that facility, their institutes will have to provide connectivity with the necessary speed. Webcams are required for students taking the exams using laptops or desktops. Front-facing cameras are needed for those taking the exams using mobile phones or tablets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1500-to-take-gtu-pg-exams-on-thursday/articleshow/77249652.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Hotel owners eager to get back on track||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s tweet on Wednesday that hotels that had been requisitioned to serve as Covid care centres would be released from their medical responsibilities came as a huge relief to hoteliers and their employees. They expect the final order on delinking the hotels from their associate hospitals to soon arrive with the permission for the hotels to resume business. Delhi government had requisitioned hotels as Covid facilities and linked them with hospitals as the pandemic appeared to spike, necessitating more hospital beds than were available in hospitals and Covid care centres. The announcement had led to panic among hotel owners and staff, with some even approaching the courts against the government decision. Before this, hotels in Aerocity were among the few in the sector doing decent business as quarantine centres for Vande Bharat returnees. But the government order instantly halted this business, and while the hotels were emptied, there wasn’t much that followed, neither lodging of patients nor word from the government and associated hospitals. The worst affected were the hotel employees, many of whom went on leave without pay while those reporting for duty dreaded attending to coronavirus-infected patients without medical training. A banquet manager at an Aerocity hotel pointed out that many establishments in Delhi were not allowed to carry on with normal business while those in Noida in UP and Gurgaon in Haryana hosted small functions. Even home delivery and laundry orders in Delhi hotels, he claimed, took a sharp dip due to the fear of accessing service from a Covid facility. Greesh Bindra, vice-president (Operations), The Suryaa, which was one of the few hotels to actually convert itself into a Covid care centre, said he expected the written order releasing hotels from Covid responsibilities to also permit reopening of normal operation. “We have been discussing this issue with Delhi government and local authorities for two months. We extended every possible help and immediately turned our hotel into a Covid facility. Now we expect approval to reopen at the earliest,” said Bindra. A hotelier calculated it would take from a week to 10 days for the hotels to reopen because of the need to disinfect, undo the temporary structural changes and negotiate the return of employees. Bindra suggested, “Hotel general managers should look at this as a pre-opening scenario, with minimal staff and resources to save on costs. As demand increases, they should scale up and summon the entire staff.” Dipak Haksar, advisor, CII National Committee on Tourism and Hospitality, who had regularly requested Delhi government to allow the reopening of hotels, commended the CM for taking the long-awaited step. “We have always maintained that hotels are not appropriate facilities for Covid care,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hotel-owners-eager-to-get-back-on-track/articleshow/77250801.cms||Amin Ali
July 30, 2020||Nagpur||Goats flown to Dubai, activists protest over ‘cruelty’||Nagpur: Two years after the Centre abruptly called off the plan to export a consignment of goats to Dubai by air from Nagpur amid protests by animal rights groups, around 3,000 goats and sheep have been sent from the city airport in the last four days. Two chartered planes of Russian Il-76 make took off on Sunday and Tuesday with 1,400 to 1,500 animals, respectively. Animal welfare activists protested this time too, alleging that the animals were subjected to cruelty before being loaded. On Tuesday, photographs and videos of goats at the airport went viral where they were reportedly kept under suffocating conditions without food and water. City activist Ankita Shah filed a complaint with Chennai-based Animal Welfare Board of India and other authorities, stating that the animals were brought to Nagpur airport from Rajasthan in a double-decker truck, travelling for almost 2-3 days without food and water. “The goats were not transported safely as they were packed tightly without any ventilation,” Shah stated. Further, highlighting that the live export of animals leads to extreme cruelty, she demanded that it be banned immediately. “Goats are exposed to dehydration and exhaustion due to insufficient food, water and rest. Also, extreme overcrowding and leads to trampling and deaths of animals,” she said adding that some goats have died in the past due to suffocation. The airport director Abid Ruhi told TOI that the animals were being sent to Sharjah by M/s Amigo Logistics, a Nashik-based company. While three flights were scheduled to take off from the city, the third one was abruptly cancelled on Wednesday. Authorities denied cancelling the flight due to opposition from activists. Sajid Sayyed of Amigo Logistics said that the third had to be called off as the timeline could not be met. “The second flight that came on Monday was supposed to fly off the same night. However, as the process had to be completed, it took one day. The same flight was supposed to come back and take the next consignment, but the third flight’s schedule got disturbed,” said Sayyed. Sources said that the third consignment was later sent from Hyderabad. Officials at the Mihan India Limited (MIL) — the airport operator — said, “The protesters were told that the livestock export by air was cleared by the directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA) and the customs department and it could not be stopped. Consignments of livestock regularly take off from Nashik airport.” In June 2018, Dr Vikas Mahatme, leader of Dhangar community (shepherds) and Rajya Sabha member from BJP, had arranged a similar venture to send 1500 animals from here. The plan was mooted as a means to bring an additional source of income for the region’s farmers. Even as a flagging off was planned with much fanfare, the plan was called off at the last moment. The consignment that was reaching Nagpur from Nashik returned midway. At that time Mahatme had told TOI that he was asked by the then union commerce minister Suresh Prabhu to postpone the programme. There were protests by animal rights groups against exports from Nagpur. The consignments continued to go from Nashik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/goats-flown-to-dubai-activists-protest-over-cruelty/articleshow/77249688.cms||Manka Behl
July 30, 2020||Pune||Cops to PMC: Stop trash plant work||PUNE: Police on Wednesday urged the civic body to stop the construction of the 200-tonne trash processing plant at Uruli Phursungi as the residents were opposed to it. Senior inspector Ramesh Sathe of the Hadapsar police said the appeal had been made to avoid any law and order situation. A meeting is scheduled next week to find a solution to the issue. Madhav Jagtap, the head of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s anti-encroachment department, said, “I shall have to check the status of the work.” The PMC officials stated that the civic body was banking on the affidavit submitted to the National Green Tribunal to continue with the work at the site. Bhagwan Bhadale, one of the agitators from Uruli Phursungi, said, “As far as we know, due permissions from different government authorities are still awaited.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-to-pmc-stop-trash-plant-work/articleshow/77250783.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Cops to close roads prone to water woes||NEW DELHI: Roads that are prone to cave-ins or waterlogging may be closed for traffic during the rain to prevent chaos or any untoward incident. Though there were no major waterlogging complaints on Wednesday, traffic police had kept additional personnel on standby in areas like Minto Road, Bhairon Marg and Ashoka Road to ensure diversion in case of inundation and cave-ins. With two days of heavy rain predicted by the weatherman, police have formed an emergency response team to deal with sudden disruptions like the ones that had stalled the city earlier this month. According to senior police officers, pending construction work in the vicinity have made several roads in the city vulnerable to waterlogging and cave-ins. This might lead to a major accident during the monsoon. The traffic cops are keeping a watch on roads around Ashram, Pragati Maidan and Dilshad Garden, they added. Though the number of stretches prone to waterlogging or cave-ins has reduced to 82 from the 271 listed last year, police say the condition of arterial roads has not changed much in the past one year. In a report to civic bodies, the cops had earlier sought for corrective measures to be taken on some of the 82 stretches to ensure that vehicle movement does not come to a standstill during monsoon. For stretches like Rohtak Road near Nangloi, Mundka and Punjabi Bagh that get waterlogged even after light showers, the civic bodies have been asked to take special note of the drainage system that chokes due to silting. Even on Mehrauli-Badarpur Road near Devli, water gets accumulated on both sides of the road during the rain, leading to snarls. Last year, Delhi government had directed its officers to take all possible measures to ensure that commuting was not affected due to waterlogging. Some corrective measures were enforced as well. However, several roads continue to remain prone to flooding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/-cops-to-close-roads-prone-to-water-woes/articleshow/77250779.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Nagpur||We will oppose lockdown: Mayor Joshi||Nagpur: Elected representatives, including MPs, MLAs and corporators cutting across party lines unanimously decided to oppose the administration’s move for a complete lockdown and curfew in the city being planned by a committee formed by district guardian minister and power minister Nitin Raut. “If the lockdown is implemented, we will take to the streets,” said mayor Sandip Joshi. In a meeting convened by the mayor on Friday, Ramtek MP and Shiv Sena leader Krupal Tumane, Rajya Sabha MP Dr Vikas Mahatme, BJP MLAs Krushna Khopde, Vikas Kumbhare, Mohan Mate, MLC Anil Sole and leader of opposition and senior Congress corporator Tanaji Wanve were against the administration’s move. The elected representatives slammed Raut for his plan at a time when the city is witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/we-will-oppose-lockdown-mayor-joshi/articleshow/77283870.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Goa||Centre seeks alternatives to NH 66 expansion||Poinguinim: Documents obtained under RTI by the Canacona-based NGO, Goenkar, indicate that the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change has sought detailed information on alternatives to widening the NH 66 at Canacona. Making reference to the diversion of 29.8ha of forest land for the proposed four-laning project, which will cut through the eco-sensitive Karmal Ghat, it has also asked the Goa government to revisit the feasibility of tunnels at critical junctures from Patradevi to Polem. Activists, environmentalists and locals of Canacona have long been protesting the project, which will require 13,471 trees to be felled over a 5km stretch. They have demanded that the government construct a tunnel instead, as it will save the ecology of the region and the lands of the tribals who live there. In a letter to Goa’s principal forest secretary on May 6, deputy inspector general of forests (central) M K Shambhu, has sought clarification and more information on a list of other issues too, including why non-forest land was not being proposed for the project. “In Part-II of the pro forma proposal, the number of trees to be felled is mentioned as ‘nil’, whereas the proposal involves the felling of 13,471 trees. Therefore, the same may also be incorporated in Part-II of the pro forma proposal, including girth-wise details,” one of the points in the letter states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/centre-seeks-alternatives-to-nh-66-expansion/articleshow/77250804.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Pune||Youth detained for murder||Pune: The Chakan police on Wednesday detained a 17-year-old youth for the murder of a minor girl in a village near Khed on July 24. “The youth nursed a grudge against her as she would taunt him for playing female characters in folk songs,” said Prakash Dhas, senior inspector, Chakan police. The investigating team zeroed in on the youth when he told them what the girl had purchased before her murder. “The youth admitted his involvement in the murder,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youth-detained-for-murder/articleshow/77250797.cms||---
July 30, 2020||India||First time since Rajasthan crisis began, hints of a truce||JAIPUR: Amid the litany of allegations, legal battles and constitutional wrangling that has plunged Rajasthan politics into crisis, both CM Ashok Gehlot and his sacked deputy Sachin Pilot on Wednesday made overtures that appeared to leave a window open for a possible reconciliation. While Gehlot suggested all would be forgiven if Pilot and the other 18 dissident MLAs apologised to the Congress high command, the disgruntled former deputy CM took to Twitter to congratulate Govind Singh Dotasra on taking over as PCC chief after his ouster. Pilot also tweeted birthday greetings to speaker CP Joshi, against whom he and his loyalists have moved court for issuing disqualification notices to them. श्री @GovindDotasra जी को राजस्थान प्रदेश कांग्रेस कमेटी के अध्यक्ष का पदभार ग्रहण करने पर बधाई।मुझे उम्मीद है की… https://t.co/9t9TOw38uj— Sachin Pilot (@SachinPilot) 1596023200000राजस्थान विधानसभा अध्यक्ष @drcpjoshi जी को जन्मदिवस की हार्दिक बधाई एवं शुभकामनाएं।मैं ईश्वर से आपके उत्तम स्वा… https://t.co/CHcIvOMzUm— Sachin Pilot (@SachinPilot) 1595997201000In Jaipur, CM Gehlot was unsparing in his criticism of BJP for allegedly orchestrating a plot to topple his government and governor Kalraj Mishra over his refusal to convene a special session without 21 days’ notice. But speaking at an event marking Dotasra’s appointment as new PCC chief, Gehlot said Congress hadn’t slammed the door shut on the dissidents. “All it takes is an unconditional apology to the high command. We will abide by whatever decision the high command takes,” the chief minister said, barely a week after a no-hold-barred attack in which he called Pilot “nikamma-nakara (worthless and idle)”. Pilot didn’t respond to the offer of a rapprochement, but his congratulatory tweet to Dotasra spoke of the need to “respect” party workers and their contributions. “Congratulations to Mr @GovindDotasraji on assuming the charge as the president of the Rajasthan PCC. I hope that without any pressure or partiality, you will give full respect to those workers whose hard work helped form the government.” Tagging Pilot, who has been away from Jaipur since the second week of July, Dotasra replied in Hindi: “Thank you very much Sachin ji. I also hope that you will come to Jaipur and stand with the Congress government to maintain the dignity of all those Congress workers whose hard work paid off in forming the government, leaving the hospitality of BJP and the (Manohar Lal) Khattar government.” Taking the cue from Pilot, sacked tourism minister Vishvendra Singh, who has also been suspended from Congress, tweeted his congratulations to Dotasra and wished the assembly speaker a happy birthday. Watch Rajasthan governor gives nod to assembly session from Aug 14||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/first-time-since-rajasthan-crisis-began-hints-of-a-truce/articleshow/77251941.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Nagpur||11 forest staffers asked to go for Covid-19 test||Nagpur: After a woman peon working in the production and management section of the forest department at Van Bhavan tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, 11 employees including a top IFS officer of the rank of PCCF and another a deputy conservator of forests (DyCF) have been asked to go in for tests. According to officials, who did not want to be quoted, the peon working on a contractual basis was not attending office from July 20. “As a matter of precaution we have asked 11 employees to go for Covid-19 tests,” they said. Earlier, on July 13, an accountant working in Van Bhavan, the state forest department’s headquarters, had died due to Covid-19. An employee, who came in contact with him also tested positive, but three others who were in touch with this employee tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/11-forest-staffers-asked-to-go-for-covid-19-test/articleshow/77249696.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC fines excise official Rs 1 lakh for not issuing refund||AHMEDABAD: In what could spell trouble for an assistant commissioner at the Central Excise and Service Tax department in Surat, the Gujarat high court on Monday ordered a penalty of Rs 1 lakh on the responsible officer payable to a company for he had passed an order on ‘extra legal reasons’. The HC was so taken aback by the actions of the officer that it ordered 18% interest per annum to be paid for the delay in issuing refund of Rs 3.6 crore and the extra amount recovered from the responsible officer. Besides ordering the department to issue full refund with 6% interest to the company within 24 hours, the HC ordered authorities to hold an inquiry to pin responsibility on the concerned officer and recover the extra amount as well as Rs 1 lakh litigation cost from the officer and pay the sum to the litigant company. In this case, Century Copper Rod Pvt Ltd and one of its directors Mohammed Zenulbhai Vasi had won a case against the department in the Central Excise and Service Tax Appellant Tribunal (CESTAT) in May 2019. The tribunal had ordered the Central Excise and Service Tax Divison-II in Surat to issue refund of Rs 3.6 crore to the company. Even after the tribunal’s order, the assistant commissioner in August 2019 said that though the company was entitled to the refund, the amount was deposited with the Consumer Welfare Fund and not given to the company. The company and its director appealed against this order before the commissioner and the order was quashed. The assistant commissioner was asked to process the refund, but the company did not get its money till July 2020. The company moved the HC and complained about the department’s behaviour. Upon inquiry, the government admitted that the refund was not paid to the company. However, it was contended that the department had challenged the May 2019 order for refund before the high court in February. The authorities’ attitude irked the high court and the bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala asked how could the officer withhold the amount on an assumption that there could be any legal development in future in this case. They said, “In fact, we are convinced that the amount has been withheld by the assistant commissioner for extra legal reasons.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-fines-excise-official-rs-1l-for-not-issuing-refund/articleshow/77249703.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Private buildings still lag in rainwater harvesting||NEW DELHI: Despite some progress in installing rainwater harvesting (RWH) units in schools, government departments and Delhi Jal Board buildings, the capital is far from realising its potential and private plot owners are still reluctant about adopting the technology, reveals the DJB data. Considering that Delhi receives an annual average rainfall of 617mm, this 917 million cubic metres of precious resource can be used to recharge the depleting groundwater levels of the water-stressed city. DJB is tasked with monitoring the implementation of the RWH system by other government departments in Delhi. The Data shows that while 1,305 government buildings have been covered, it remains a work in progress in 1,232 buildings. An official said schools and colleges had shown remarkable progress. “According to available reports from various educational institutions, 3,675 schools and colleges have been covered with the RWH system out of a target of 4,796,” he said. However, the biggest concern continues to be private building owners. The DJB records show the RWH system has been implemented in 1,869 privately-owned buildings. A report prepared by South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) states that as many as 11,342 building plans with RWH provisions were sanctioned between 2012 and 2019 in south Delhi alone. Similarly, DJB alone has more than 15,706 such plots (100-500sq m) registered in its revenue management system and the RWH system is mandatory for all of them. As per rule 50 of the Delhi water and sewer (tariff and metering) regulations, these plots are provided a rebate of 10% in the total bill in-order to popularise the idea. On the other hand, those who fail to install a functional RWH system have to pay a steep 1.5 times the bill amount. Last August, DJB made it mandatory for all properties with an area of 100sq m and above to have functional rainwater harvesting systems, thereby steeply expanding the category. The compliance, however, has been way lower than expectations. Experts have repeatedly flagged non-imposition of penalty and postponement of deadline as main causes behind low compliance. Jal board vice-chairperson Raghav Chadha said, “Rain centres have been created in each district by DJB where anyone can visit to know about the guidelines, needs, basic structure, rebate for implementation of RWH system. The work was slowed due to the worldwide pandemic but it’s gradually picking up pace now.” He pointed out that DJB had achieved a near completion in installation of the RWH system in its own buildings. “The RWH system has been implemented in 544 out of the 594 DJB buildings and the rest are being targeted for work completion shortly.” Chadha said DJB was also implementing the RWH system in 87 buildings that were not being maintained by it. Work has been completed in five of them, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/private-buildings-still-lag-in-rainwater-harvesting/articleshow/77250800.cms||Paras Singh
July 30, 2020||Vadodara||No mass scale celebrations this festive season: CM||Vadodara: Gujarat government has decided not to grant any permission for mass scale celebrations during the forthcoming festival season in the state due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.During his visit to Rajkot and Vadodara on Wednesday, Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani said that no permission will be granted for fairs during ‘Saatam Aatham’ and ‘Janmasthami’ – the festivals that are celebrated with much fanfare.Similarly, Bakri Eid and ‘Samvatsari’ festival too will remain low key. “We are appealing the communities and organisers to themselves make an announcement in this regard to avoid crowding at public places for safety of all. People can celebrate the festivals at their home,” said Rupani.Regarding the nine-day Navratri festival, Rupani said that in the current situation, the question of granting permission for organising garba does not arise. “A decision regarding the same will be reviewed if the Covid-19 situation in the state improves,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/no-mass-scale-celebrations-this-festive-season-cm/articleshow/77247689.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Indore||Going local: Industries tapping desi markets for raw material||Indore: Industries across sectors have accelerated efforts to reduce imports from China and explore local markets but lack of bulk manufacturing in India and high costing are major deterrents hurting local operations. Chemicals, automobile spare parts, electronic items, decorative and PVC floorings and raw material for pharmaceutical products are a few segments heavily dependent on Chinese market. Companies claimed that they have to source raw material from multiple states and suppliers in India as against just one bulk manufacturer in China. Balkrishna Bharani, an importer and supplier of automobile spare parts in five states said, “Over 60 per cent items in automobile sector is imported from China. We have been working to cut down on imports from China and source products from local markets but the cost of Indian made products is so high that it is almost double in some items. Who will buy such expensive products when the same is available at much cheaper rates?” A few manufacturers of automobile parts who assemble products imported from China said Indian companies do not give service while Chinese manufacturers offer you online and offline assistance as and when required. Manufacturers venturing into products heavily imported from China claimed high labour costs, electricity tariffs and lack of item wise subsidies lifts cost of production in India unlike China where cost of production is much less. Automobile players said motorcycle batteries, wiper blades, bearings, spark plugs among other items are mostly imported from China. Neeraj Jain, importer of artificial grass and PVC floorings said, “The cost in India is almost 30 per cent high for the same item sourced from China besides there are just a handful of manufacturers here. The need is to boost local manufacturing by supporting small scale industries and if this happens then other nations will turn towards India for sourcing raw material.” A chemical manufacturer from Indore said, “There is no alternate market in India for some specific chemicals supplied by China. Chemical factories are not easy to set up and in India getting permissions are very difficult due to which manufacturers drop the idea.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/going-local-industries-tapping-desi-markets-for-raw-material/articleshow/77249698.cms||Meenakshi Sharma
July 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Less than 3,000 Covid hospital beds now occupied||NEW DELHI: The occupancy of beds reserved for Covid-19 patients in Delhi’s hospitals reduced to 18% on Wednesday with only 2,958 out of 16,038 beds being occupied. Even the ventilator beds, which were in high demand till last month, remained mostly vacant. According to data shared by the hospitals on Delhi Corona app on Wednesday, out of 1,207 Covid beds with ventilator support, only 396 (33%) were occupied and the remaining 811 (67%) were lying vacant. Delhi government has decided to discontinue the scheme of creation of healthcare facilities at hotels, but a decision on whether private hospitals should be allowed to reduce the number of Covid beds in view of low occupancy is yet to be taken. On Wednesday, Delhi recorded 1,035 new cases of Covid-19 taking the total tally to over 1.3 lakh. Only 10,770—eight % of the total cases—are active. Total 3,907 people have died due to the disease in the state and the number of recoveries is over 1.2 lakh, according to the state health department. On Monday, the daily cases count had dipped to 613, the lowest in two months. It was 1,056 on Tuesday. “Smaller hospitals are suffering the most because they aren’t getting any Covid patients and non-Covid patients aren’t visiting them out of the infection fear,” the owner of a 60-bedded hospital in East Delhi, who did not want to be quoted, said. He added that reduction in Covid-19 cases is good news and the government should strategise on how to free up beds reserved for such patients so that non-Covid patients can be admitted. Data shared by hospitals on Delhi Corona app shows out of 650 Covid beds at Indraprastha Apollo hospital, 543 (84%) are vacant. The percentage of vacant Covid beds at other top private hospitals is 61% (Max Smart Saket), 73% (Max Patparganj), 94% (Fortis Shalimar Bagh), 67% (Sir Ganga Ram hospital) and 89% (Moolchand hospital). “For the last 10 days, occupancy has remained low as there are fewer cases. Also, most people have mild symptoms and they prefer to isolate themselves at home,” said a senior doctor at Max hospital. The percentage of vacant Covid beds in government hospitals like Lok Nayak, Safdarjung, RML and AIIMS is 80%, 84%, 73% and 54%, respectively. Till about a month ago, these hospitals were flooded with Covid cases. Watch Covid-19: Less than 3,000 hospital beds now occupied in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/less-than-3000-covid-hosp-beds-now-occupied/articleshow/77250807.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
July 30, 2020||Nagpur||Traders warn they won’t obey new lockdown||Nagpur: Shopkeepers of the city under the aegis of Nag Vidarbha Chamber of Commerce (NVCC) have threatened vehement agitation if a lockdown is imposed by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) in the coming days. They have made it clear they will not obey the lockdown. A meeting was held between mayor Sandip Joshi, NVCC office-bearers, additional commissioner Ram Joshi and other NMC officials on Wednesday afternoon. NVCC president Ashwin Mehadia warned NMC officials not to even think of lockdown. “We have suffered a lot due to lockdown in summer months. We don’t have any money to make two ends meet. We also have to take care of our employees. Under such conditions, if a lockdown is imposed it will be disastrous for us,” Mehadia told TOI. BJP city president Pravin Datke said things had come to such a pass because neither guardian minister Nitin Raut nor the officers were taking public representatives into confidence. “They act as bridge between citizens and government,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/traders-warn-they-wont-obey-new-lockdown/articleshow/77249702.cms||Ashish Roy
July 30, 2020||Nagpur||AIIMS holds webinar on head-neck cancer practice in Covid times||Nagpur: The practice of head and neck cancer is presently challenged by the Covid-19 pandemic. In this context, the department of ENT at All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Nagpur, conducted a webinar on ‘Head and Neck Cancer practice during the Covid Pandemic’ on July 27. The speaker was Dr Mahamaya Prasad Singh, head and neck oncologist and reconstructive surgeon, from Guwahati, Assam. It was focused at updating medical fraternity across India about various challenges in diagnosis and management of head-neck cancer patients during the Covid-19 pandemic. This consisted of PowerPoint presentation by invited speaker followed by interactive question and answer session to give clear guidelines while tackling head and neck malignancy during these challenging times. The take home messages of the webinar were, Covid-19 pandemic will directly and indirectly affect all facets of treatment of patients with head and neck malignancies, decision regarding patient care should be personalized and balancing the risk of exposure with the benefit of life saving cancer treatment, patients with head and neck mucosal malignancy require continued treatment despite the current pandemic state, and care must be taken at all stages of treatment to minimize the risk to patients and health care workers. Individual and institutional participants from government and private medical colleges and health care professionals from across India participated in the webinar. Relevant topics and queries of participants were discussed with the speaker. The event was successfully conducted under the guidance of Maj Gen (Dr) Vibha Dutta, SM, director & CEO, and officiating medical superintendent Dr Manish Shrigiriwar. World Head-Neck Cancer day is celebrated on July 27 every year. Head and neck cancers represent the sixth most common cancer worldwide with approximately 630,000 new patients diagnosed annually resulting in more than 350,000 deaths every year. Alcohol, smoking, chewing tobacco, poor oral hygiene and human papilloma virus infection are some of the causes of head and neck cancer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/aiims-holds-webinar-on-head-neck-cancer-practice-in-covid-times/articleshow/77267232.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 30, 2020||Allahabad||VHP workers to carry soil, water from Sangam to Ayodhya today||PRAYAGRAJ: Amidst chanting of Vedic mantra and sloks, the leaders of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) leaders have collected soil and water from Sangam — the confluence of Ganga, Yamuna and mythical Saraswati on Wednesday for the Bhoomi Pujan of Ram temple at Ayodhya on August 5. A three members’ delegation of the organisation would take the sacred soil and water of Prayagraj sangam to Ayodhya on Thursday. VHP spokesman Ashwani Mishra told TOI on Wednesday, “A group of VHP leaders including VHP’s Dharmacharya Sampark pramukh Shambhu, and Prant sangthan mantri Mukesh Kumar with the help of Meja resident Sanju Lal Adivasi (a Scheduled Tribe man) have collected the sacred soil and water amidst performing pujan through Vedic tradition on Wednesday morning”. He added “ After collecting the sacred soil and water, the organisation members brought it at Mahavir Bhawan ( residence of VHP leader late Ashok Singhal) and performed pujan. The VHP workers became emotional when they brought sacred soil and water at the resident of VHP leader late Ashok Singhal and remembered his contribution and efforts for the ram temple. The VHP workers later brought it to Keshar bhawan ( VHP’s prant office) which would be sent to Ayodhya on Thursday. Mishra, meanwhile, said that “ Apart from sacred sangam water and soil, the soil of Kashi Vishwanath, Shringverpur water, and sacred soil and water of other prominent teerth including Kabir Math, Maharshi Bhardwaj ashram, and Sitamadi would be collected and sent to Ayodhya before August 5. He said that organisation’s volunteers have already communicated to office bearers of these math and temples and sacred soil and water from the other prominent Hindu teerth would be sent to Ayodhya for the Bhoomi Pujan ceremony of Ram temple before August 5.” “ Only three members of the organisation would carry the Sangam soil and water to Ayodhya due to Covid situation, said Mishra adding “ we have made all preparations to send the sacred sangam soil and water to Ayodhya, he added. Meanwhile, saints and seers associated with various maths and akharas claimed “ Finally, the time has come when we would see grand lord Ram temple at ayodhya after a long battle”. They also added “ we have chalked out a strategy to celebrate the day at Hindu’s math and mandirs across the state and for that, preparations are in full swing’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/vhp-workers-to-carry-soil-water-from-sangam-to-ayodhya-today/articleshow/77247027.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Nagpur||No centralized desk, positive patients do not know what to do, where to go||Nagpur: Even with fewer than 1,700 Covid-19 active patients in the district, admission and monitoring of positive patients was far from systematic on Wednesday. The lack of a centralized desk is said to be the major reason behind the haywire situation. MLA and corporator Pravin Datke told TOI, “Testing and admission of positive patients has gone haywire in the district. There is no system where a person testing positive can go, get checked, and seek guidance whether to be in home isolation or get admitted in hospital etc.” Some persons getting positive reports called public representatives, who got them admitted as per their sources. Some patients want admission in private hospitals but have no idea where to go. “Some patients are directly going to GMCH, IGGMCH or private hospitals and pleading for admission,” said Datke. He added, “There is an urgent need for a centralized desk like in Mumbai. All testing positive should report at the desk to be checked and get total guidance on further actions. This will help monitor the status of patients,” he said. In a case on Wednesday, a 70-year-old man from Gadikhana went to a private hospital complaining of uneasiness on July 26. The doctors suggested Covid-19 test after examining X-ray report. The person went home and got the test done at 2.13pm the next day in a private laboratory. Though it is mandatory to give report within 24 hours, the person received report at 10.19am on July 29. One of the sons of the patient contacted a legislator who arranged for an ambulance from Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and asked him to get admitted in GMCH. “There were no workers with the ambulance and we had to take our father into the ambulance,” one of the sons told TOI. He added, “We wanted the entire family to be tested. Also, no one had PPEs, so we did not go in the ambulance. Half an hour later, we got a call there was no one to take my father into isolation ward from the ambulance. The GMCH staffers asked us to come there, and also warned my father will remain in ambulance in case of delay or if we do not reach. My younger brother rushed to GMCH, but doctors declared him brought dead at 2.15pm,” he said. The son also said, “My father would have received treatment and been saved if we had received the report in time.” GMCH medical superintendent Avinash Gawande denied any such lapses. “We have engaged sufficient workers to take patients from ambulance to isolation wards. We have even deployed a doctor of deputy superintendent rank to ensure treatment to any positive patient walking into GMCH premises,” he said. In another case, a youth from Reshimbagh was admitted at a private hospital in Sitabuldi for treatment of kidney stone. As per hospital’s advice, he got tested and reports came positive. The youth wished to get admitted in a private hospital for treatment of kidney stone as well as Covid-19. He and his family members contacted two public representatives and all available sources for admission from morning to evening. Finally, he got admission in a private hospital in the night. NMC sources told TOI persons who test positive are being contacted after a delay of one or two days. “Reports come from government and private laboratories to NMC head office, which scrutinizes and distributes them to 10 zone offices in night. The persons at zone offices started contacting patients the next day. In case of wrong number or any problem in coverage etc, the status of patient is unknown,” sources said. After an alert from the government, the administration had claimed all preparedness for handling 12,000 patients in a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-centralized-desk-positive-patients-do-not-know-what-to-do-where-to-go/articleshow/77249714.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 30, 2020||Kochi||Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case: Court seeks proof on ‘terror angle’||KOCHI: The NIA special court in Kochi on Wednesday directed the agency to submit details of materials that led it to believe there was a ‘terror angle’ to the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case. The court issued the directive while considering the bail application of Swapna Suresh, the second accused in the case. Suresh’s counsel strongly contested the charges slapped on her under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The court directed NIA to submit the case dairy and to give a list of incriminating materials that can point to the terrorism angle in the case. NIA said the court would be convinced about terrorism angle after it goes through the case diary. The agency reiterated that the proceeds of the gold were used for terrorism purposes. It also added that Swapna was used by the smuggling gang led by KT Ramees to execute the operation and that without Swapna the smuggling through diplomatic channel wouldn’t have been possible.It said it has gathered evidence to establish that the acts by the accused were to destabilise the monetary security of the nation for which they planned to smuggle maximum gold during the lockdown period. Advocate Geo Paul, representing Swapna, submitted that there was an ‘ugly haste’ from the part of NIA to project her as an accused and that it was due to political reasons. “When NIA registered the case, Swapna was not even an accused in the customs case. NIA booked her five days after customs opened the baggage. What enquiry was done in this brief period, which elicited enough reason to charge UAPA against someone,” said Paul. He further said that Swapna’s remand report didn’t show anything that can connect her to any terrorism activities. “It was said in the remand report that money received from the gold smuggling was deposited in her lockers and accounts in banks. This is an obvious contradiction to their previous argument that the proceeds went to terrorism purposes,” said Paul. The advocate also raised a technical issue regarding registration of UAPA Act in the gold smuggling case.  He also mentioned the experience of scientist Nambi Narayanan who faced investigation of five agencies after false espionage charges were alleged against him. Meanwhile, the customs continued its interrogation of Swapna and Sandeep Nair on Wednesday. Swapna is learnt to have stated that she got involved in the smuggling operation as she was considerate of Sarith’s financial problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/court-seeks-proof-on-terror-angle/articleshow/77248367.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Ready to hang for organizing Ramzan relief from UAE consulate: K T Jaleel||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Higher education minister K T Jaleel has cited religious beliefs and practices behind the acceptance of food kits from the UAE consulate for distribution in his constituency, and emphatically said that he is even ready to be hanged for doing so. Jaleel, on his Facebook page, said that distributing food kits and copies of Holy Quran is a practice followed by Arabs for centuries during the month of Ramzan. Since it was lockdown period then, the consulate could not distribute it in this time. As a minister in charge of Wakf that handles mosques in the state, the consulate had approached him for distribution of the food kits, he said. It was the consulate that directly paid the charges for the food kits to the agency (Consumerfed). The copies of Quran were given to two religious institutions to be handed over to mosques when they are opened after the lockdown. Anyone can personally contact them and verify these, he said. Jaleel said that 10,000 food kits, including 1,000 contributed by the UAE consulate, were distributed in Thavanur, irrespective of religious or party considerations. He said that if the prime minister wants to hang him for his actions on the basis of the letter sent by MP and UDF convener Benny Behanan, he is ready and would not even go for an appeal against it. He urged Behanan to send another letter to the prime minister requesting him to instruct to return the copies of Holy Quran to the UAE consulate, as the book is meant for forging harmony in society and not to destroy diplomatic relations between countries. Accepting sponsorship for food kits worth Rs 5 lakh from UAE consul general, had raised questions about serious violation of protocols by an Indian minister while dealing with foreign missions and diplomats. The consul general had offered 1,000 food kits worth Rs 500 each to the minister for distribution in his constituency. Reacting to Jaleel’s arguments, BJP state president K Surendran said that the minister was using religion to cover up the serious breach of code of conduct by him. “This is similar to the tactics used by P K Kunhalikutty when he had faced allegations in ice-cream parlour scandal,” Surendran said in a Facebook post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ready-to-hang-for-organizing-ramzan-relief-from-uae-consulate-jaleel/articleshow/77248381.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Surat||‘PM wanted Surat to be Shanghai, it has become Wuhan’||Surat: Gujarat Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC) president, Amit Chavda on Wednesday criticised the BJP government in the state and the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) for their inability in controlling the Covid-19 spread in the city. Chavda visited the SMC-run SMIMER hospital and the New Civil Hospital (NCH) to take stock of the situation. Talking with media persons, Chavda said, “It was PM Narendra Modi’s dream to make Surat India’s Shanghai. Before Shanghai, Surat has become the next Wuhan with more than 500 people succumbing to Covid-19 and over 12,000 people getting infected with the deadly virus. There is a vast difference in the death figures given by the municipal corporation and those registered at the crematoriums and burial grounds in Surat.” Chavda added, “We are going to demand for the special session of Gujarat Assembly to discuss the government’s approach in tackling the rising cases of Covid-19, particularly in Surat.” According to Chavda, the medical and paramedical staff in the government hospitals of Surat are facing a huge challenges due to the severe shortage of staff and an increasing number of Covid-19 patients. “There is a severe shortage of ventilators and oxygen beds in the government hospitals and the government is hiding the real figures of people succumbing to Covid-19,” Chavda alleged. Blaming the government for the black marketing of the life-saving injections, Chavda said, “Patients in government hospitals are running pillar to post to get the life-saving injections and that they are being sold at exorbitant prices in the black market. The government seems to have lost touch with humanity when it comes to saving the lives of poor people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/pm-wanted-surat-to-be-shanghai-it-has-become-wuhan/articleshow/77248396.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Delhi||Ensure all symptomatic people take RT-PCR test: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday asked all districts to strictly ensure that each and every symptomatic person testing negative through antigen test is subjected to an RT-PCR test. It is part of the government directive to increase the number of the gold standard test. “Existing guidelines say that if any patient’s antigen test is negative but has symptoms, RT-PCR test must be done on him. I directed the officers today to ensure strict compliance of these guidelines,” Kejriwal tweeted. A total of 5,074 RT-PCR tests were conducted on Tuesday in the city, while the total number of antigen tests conducted was 12,318. Delhi high court had asked the government why it was not ramping up the gold standard test. Following the CM’s directive, the districts are gearing up to conduct more RT-PCR tests. A couple of districts have written to NCDC indicating their plans to increase the number of tests. “We want to conduct 200 more RT-PCR tests daily. Instructions have been issued to dispensaries and private hospitals to increase the number,” said a source. Of late, Delhi has been conducting only 50% of its RT-PCR capacity of 11,000 tests per day. An official claimed that all the districts have been carrying out RT-PCR tests on symptomatic persons who have tested negative in tests conducted by rapid antigen tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-ensure-all-symptomatic-people-take-rt-pcr-test/articleshow/77250803.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Kanpur||Locals, family of man abducted & killed protest||KANPUR: Family members of a Dharm Kanta employee Brijesh Pal and scores of agitated residents blocked the Kanpur-Jhansi road in Kanpur Dehat for more than an hour on Wednesday to protest alleged reluctance of police in the case of Brijesh’s abduction and murder. Brijesh was kidnapped, strangled to death and thrown into a dry well in Kanhakhera village after his kidnapper didn’t receive a ransom of Rs 20 lakh from his family. The agitators were pacified after senior police officials rushed to the site and assured them of action against the guilty cops, if any. A resident of Chaura village, Brijesh was the cashier at a Dharm Kanta located in Bhognipur area on Kanpur-Jhansi highway. He was kidnapped while he had gone to the Dharm-Kanta on July 15. The body was recovered from a well after the police arrested Brijesh’s friend Subodh Sachan in this connection. During interrogation, he had confessed that he strangulated Brijesh and dumped his body in a dry well in Kanhakhera, hours after kidnapping him. The car used for his abduction was also recovered from the Dharm Kanta. After the body was fished out from the well, the police sent it to the mortuary on Tuesday night. After the autopsy, it was brought to his native village on Wednesday amid heavy police escort, and was cremated in the evening. Brijesh’s elder brother Rajesh said, “The police’s approach from Day One was very irresponsible. They had even tortured my youngest brother and tried to implicate him in the case. They also tried to shrug off investigation saying it was a family matter.” “Those policemen who showed alacrity should also be punished,” he demanded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/locals-family-of-man-abducted-killed-protest/articleshow/77250805.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat records 1,144 new cases, 24 deaths in 24 hours||Ahmedabad: In 24 hours ending 5pm on Wednesday, Gujarat recorded 1,144 new Covid-19 cases, taking the cumulative tally to 59,126. It was the third 1,100-plus tally for the state in four days and the fourth highest daily tally in the past one week. The state recorded 24 deaths, taking the toll to 2,396. The deaths include 11 from Surat, five from Ahmedabad, three from Vadodara, two each from Patan and Rajkot, and one from Mehsana. The new positive cases include 291 from Surat, 152 from Ahmedabad, 95 from Vadodara, and 80 from Rajkot.  All 33 districts of Gujarat recorded at least one case in the past 24 hours whereas 10 cases were attributed to persons from other states. An analysis of six days’ statistics reveals that the daily testing has gone up from 14,595 on July 24 to 22,914 on July 29 — a rise of 57%. Compared to that, the daily cases have gone up by 7%: from 1,068 on July 24 to 1,144 on July 29. The daily testing per million population has gone up from 224 to 352. With the update on Wednesday, Gujarat now has 13,535 active patients, which is 23% of the total Covid-19 patients so far. The share of discharged and deceased patients in the total tally is now 73% and 4% respectively. In all, 783 patients were discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 43,195. The discharges include 218 from Surat, 117 from Ahmedabad, 79 from Vadodara, and 65 from Bhavnagar. As on Wednesday evening, Gujarat had 4.83 lakh persons under quarantine, of whom 4.81 lakh were under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-records-1144-new-cases-24-deaths-in-24-hours/articleshow/77249722.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Madurai||Authorities ask siddha docs to work for free, hints at paying them after outrage||Trichy: Appealing to the private siddha medical practitioners to join the battle against Covid-19, director of the department of Indian medicine and homeopathy Chennai S Ganesh has hinted at a plan to give them remuneration for their service. In a circular sent to the principals of all private siddha medical colleges in the state on July 27, he mentioned about the need for volunteer siddha doctors to work at the Covid Care Centres (CCC) in the state free of cost. He also asked the principals of the private siddha medical colleges to furnish the list of volunteers immediately. The circular caused an outrage in the social media with private siddha practitioners expressing concern over working without remuneration, while the government is spending crores rupees to fight Covid-19. “We have asked volunteering siddha practitioners to join us. If they are willing, we will take care of their remuneration for which we are working on a plan to pay them at the district-level,” director Ganesh told ToI. However, Ganesh said on Wednesday, “We are arranging payment for them also,” he said. Tamil Nadu Siddha Medical Officers Association has also welcomed the decision of paying the remuneration to volunteer siddha doctors. “The government should pay minimum Rs 60,000 to Rs 1 lakh to the private doctors who are willing to join the battle against Covid-19,” said state secretary of the association Dr B Thamizhkkani, adding that there were about 6,000 self-employed registered siddha medical professionals in the state. Director Ganesh also revealed the plan of bringing up exclusive siddha covid care centres in all the districts at the earliest. “The plans are afoot to set up full-fledged siddha covid care centres with bed facilities in every district. At present, 18 siddha covid care centres are either functioning or about to become operational in Chennai and other districts,” he said. On the objective of the centres, he said that asymptomatic and mild symptomatic patients referred from the government hospital will be treated here as in-patients under the care of the siddha doctors. “The concept of the centre is to prevent asymptomatic and mild symptomatic patients from deteriorating further,” he said adding that around 1,000 doctors of Ayush stream in the government sector have been involved in the work across the state now. He also said that government Ayush doctors have been given quarantine for a week after their duty. “To overcome the shortage, we asked the private practitioners to join us,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/authorities-ask-siddha-docs-to-work-for-free-hints-at-paying-them-after-outrage/articleshow/77249716.cms||Gokul Rajendran
July 30, 2020||Goa||Digambar supports protest against railway double tracking||MARGAO: Reiterating his support to the people of Cansaulim in their agitation against the double tracking of railway line from Vasco to Londa, leader of opposition Digambar Kamat said he would soon write to the Central Empowered Committee (constituted by the Supreme Court) expressing his concerns over forest clearances in Bhagvan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem National Park for railway double tracking, widening of national highway and laying of power transmission lines projects. The opposition leader said he has also pledged his support to the ‘Save Karmal Ghat’ agitation. “I want to make it very clear that I was not party to any decision nor I attended any meeting with anyone to discuss and decide on any project of doubling of railway track in Goa. Congress has voiced its opposition to the project and will continue opposing it,” Kamat said, addressing reporters. As regards online education, Kamat urged the government to make optimum use of the intranet optic fibre cable facility which has reached every village panchayat to facilitate online and distance education. The Margao MLA further demanded that the government immediately issue orders extending work from home for teachers till the situation becomes normal. He also demanded a financial package for the marginalised sector — chanekar, khajekar, fulkar —and reiterated his demand for a white paper on Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/digambar-supports-protest-against-railway-double-tracking/articleshow/77250867.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Gym owners prepare to reopen in changed world||NEW DELHI: Before the Covid-19 outbreak, Aditya Sharma, cricketer-turned-owner of Box N Burn in Lajpat Nagar, used to employ four helpers at his ‘fitness studio’. With gyms and yoga centres allowed to reopen from August 5, Sharma has decided to hire one more employee, whose sole job will be to keep on sanitising fitness equipment, mats and every touch point on the premises at regular intervals. With gyms and yoga centres allowed to reopen, social distancing and sanitisation are the buzzwords for their owners. Also, fewer users will be allowed at a time through slots booked online or on phone; wearing masks, gloves and carrying sanitisers will be mandatory; there will be no shower facilities; and users will have to bring their own towels and drinking water. The capital’s fitness industry was one of the hardest hit by Covid-19 and Unlock-3 guidelines have brought a much-needed respite for thousands of people whose livelihood depends on gyms and fitness centres. “There are around 5,500 gyms in Delhi and every gym employs 10 to 15 people, including trainers, helpers, housekeeping staff, etc and this decision will help 55-65,000 people directly, apart from those associated with gym equipment and supplement industry,” said Chirag Sethi, vice-president of Delhi Gym Association. In a meeting with minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy, Aam Aadmi Party MLA Dilip Pandey sought reopening of gyms shut down since the lockdown began on March 25. The Timarpur MLA said due to closed gyms, several persons dependent upon it for livelihoods have been affected, and they are in deep financial distress. “We have already shared an SOP with both Delhi government and the Centre, which includes booking through slots, thermal scanning at entry point, mandatory use of masks, gloves and sanitisers, etc,” Sethi said. “Maximum 10 to 15 would be allowed inside gyms depending on the area every alternate machine will be kept vacant. After every 45-50 minutes, all equipment and area would be sanitised,” he added. Zuhaib Rana, owner of Gravitaz in Ashok Vihar, said that his gym has a mobile application where people can book appointments 24 hours in advance. Vinay Sangwan, who runs Anytime Fitness in Saket and Malviya Nagar, said that no one will be allowed at a time outside their slot. Nitish Yadav, owner of Vasant Kunj’s The Bodyline Gym, is happy that his gym can now reopen. However, he is worried that operational costs will go up. Watch Unlock 3.0: MHA issues guidelines; yoga institutes, gyms to reopen from Aug 5||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gym-owners-prepare-to-reopen-in-changed-world/articleshow/77250810.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 30, 2020||Trichy||Trichy finance firm sealed for violation of curfew norms||Trichy: A private finance firm was sealed as it violated the preventive norms in view of Covid-19 pandemic by holding a meeting with around 150 people in its premises at Mannarpuram in Trichy on Wednesday.A team of officials led by tahsildar of Trichy East Taluk, P Mohan, sealed Elfin E-com private limited at Mannapuram. “They have been found to have conducted a meeting with 147 people present in their office. It is a lockdown violation. So, we sealed the office,” Mohan told TOI.The revenue department took the action following the recommendation from city police. Initially, the police had got information that the company administration was convening a meeting in the office on Wednesday morning with a group of people, who has invested their money in the company.The Cantonment police also registered a case against the people and recommended the revenue officials to close the office for unlawful assembly. The cases were booked under the sections of IPC, disaster management Act, epidemic disease (ED) Act and Tamil Nadu public health (TNPH) Act. The accused were not arrested.It may be noted that the firm was embroiled in a controversy recently. The Cantonment police had registered a case on July 7 against the owner of the firm and eight others on charges of rioting with weapons, wrongful restraint, verbal abuse, voluntarily causing hurt, criminal intimidation and cheating based on the complaint from N Rajkumar, 30, of Amburani in Pudukottai district. The complainant had accused them of these charges, when he decided to withdraw his money invested in the company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-finance-firm-sealed-for-violation-of-curfew-norms/articleshow/77249725.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Chennai||Despite Madras HC order against hawking, vendors return to NSC Bose Road||CHENNAI: The Madras high court may have directed authorities to ensure NSC Bose Road in Parry’s remains a ‘no hawking’ zone, but vendors continue to reign supreme, clogging traffic and reducing space for pedestrians. On Wednesday, 50 hawkers on tricycles took over a part of NSC Bose Road and Rattan Bazaar and slowed down motorists. A few other hawkers gobbled up the pavement, causing untold miseries for pedestrians amid the rain. A section of hawkers were found without face masks. The encroachment has become regular feature since the city’s commercial nerve centre reopened for the public. This has had an adverse impact, compromising social distancing norms as people have little space to walk on platform and streets branching out of NSC Bose Road. Also, haphazard parking by two-wheelers adds to the congestion, affecting the smooth flow of vehicles. The encroachment is the vicinity of the Flower Bazaar police station. A V S Marimuthu, co-convenor of North Chennai People Rights Federation, said the corporation and police should carry ot regular drives to remove encroachments. “Continuous enforcement at least for a month alone can end the menace.” The Flower Bazaar police say they act against hawkers frequently. “We book 20 cases against hawkers every day. Still, they are back to square one,” an officer said. Action, including confiscating commodities sold by hawkers, was being initiated along with corporation officers, he said. Officials of the corporation’s zone V, under whose jurisdiction NSC Bose Road comes, could not be reached for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/despite-hc-order-against-hawking-vendors-return-to-nsc-bose-road/articleshow/77249718.cms||A Prathap
July 30, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra shows best SSC result in 15 years, 242 get 100% marks||PUNE: From 242 students with a perfect 100% to a 15-year high in pass percentage, the results of the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) examination raised the happiness quotient after the state board results were declared online on Wednesday. As many as 83,000 students scored above 90% marks this year. Last year, just 20 students had scored 100%. This year, Latur division has 151 students, Aurangabad 36, and Pune 12 with cent per cent marks. Mumbai has two while Nashik has none among the nine divisions of the state board. The state’s 95.3 pass percentage, a jump of 18.2% from 2019, was the best result since 2005. No student in the state failed in social studies comprising history and geography. There are 19 other subjects which recorded a 100% pass percentage. The exam was conducted for 60 subjects, except for geography which was cancelled due to the pandemic. The state board attributed all the pluses to the return of the internal marks, orals and activity-based question papers. Board chairperson Shakuntala Kale said, “Last year’s results suffered due to cancellation of internal exams. They were reintroduced this year and we have the best results in 15 years. Students scoring 100% by virtue of extra marks for excelling in arts and culture, sports and other extra curricular activities has also increased.” About 1.8 lakh students in Maharashtra got grace marks for excelling in extra curricular activities. The Pune division has 40,355 students with such marks. The division, which includes Solapur, Pune and Ahmednagar districts also recorded a pass percentage of 97.3, over 14% higher than last year’s 82.5. Konkan division with 98.7 recorded the highest pass percentage while Aurangabad had the lowest at 92. All nine divisions recorded over 90% pass percentage and Nagpur division had the highest improvement of 26.6 when compared with last year’s results. Nashik division with 93.7% showed a 16% jump from last year’s 77.6%. Latur division despite having 151 students with 100% marks is second last with a pass percentage of 93. Kolhapur division scored 97.6 pass percentage, around 11.1% higher than last year. Education researcher Kishore Darak said more students have cleared the exam which keeps their options open. It was also a good sign for girls, he said. “In case of higher number of failures, it leads to early marriage for girls,” he added. Officiating headmistress of Ahilyadevi High School, Darshana Korke, said the efforts of the schools counted in the success of the students. “We have been conducting a scholars’ batch for students, guiding them and conducting lectures,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-shows-best-ssc-result-in-15-years-242-get-100-marks/articleshow/77250835.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
July 30, 2020||Chennai||Raw sewage, encroachments continue to threaten lakes||Chennai: Release of untreated industrial and domestic waste and delay in eviction of squatters remain a threat to the survival of almost all of the city’s lakes even after ‘completion’ of eco-restoration. This could become a major issue as the city and its suburbs have been experiencing rain and the northeast monsoon is only a few months away, say activists. The Korattur lake is polluted because a canal that brings surplus from the Ambattur lake passes through areas where residents without underground sewage connections dump raw waste in it, says founder of Korattur Aeri Padhukappu Makkal Iyakkam S Sekharan, adding that the situation worsens when it rains. Attempts to close the canal mouth have led to protests from problems, forcing authorities to maintain status quo, he says. D Sundararaman, secretary of Venkatapuram residents welfare association in Ambattur, says release of raw sewage into the canal is due to the lack of proper guidance for obtaining underground sewage connections. Metrowater is responsible for this mess, he says, as residents haven’t been told of the exact amount to be paid for a sewage connection and are scared of fleecing middlemen. At the Korattur lake, where encroachments on the outer portions are the main problem, public works department (PWD) authorities began boundary demarcation about a fortnight ago and identified about 150 encroachments, many of them having sprung up in the last few months. The Ambattur lake continues to be polluted by untreated industrial waste, but PWD authorities claim temporary bund-like structures have been built to stop the flow and that raw domestic waste is the main issue. Residents say demarcation of the boundary and identification of encroachments are yet to begin despite the authorities being aware of the enormity of the problem. The PWD has identified about 178 encroachments at the Madhavaram lake, from where Metrowater had drawn nearly 10 million litres of water a day (MLD) and sent it to the Kilpauk treatment plant before release into the piped supply system. A Metrowater official said space for rehabilitating squatters is a major issue as they had to be provided alternate accommodation in Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) tenements. The PWD should draw proposals and submit it to the TNSCB, he said. Similar is the condition of the lakes at Peerkankaranai, near Tambaram, and Adambakkam where despite the PWD’s efforts squatters remain as the required assistance from the revenue and police authorities is yet to be provided, says a PWD official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/raw-sewage-encroachments-continue-to-threaten-lakes/articleshow/77249768.cms||P Oppili
July 30, 2020||Trichy||More than half of Thanjavur cases in last 10 days||Thanjavur: With 1,395 cases recorded in the last 10 days, Thanjavur district has been maintaining the top spot in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the central region. This is a 55% increase in the total number of cases in the district, which stands at 2,554. On Wednesday alone, the district reported 188 cases. Since July 20, except on two days, Thanjavur has been recording the highest number of cases in the central region. This was because of the emergence of a cluster at Darasuram vegetable market. Around 300 people tested positive there, sources said. Following various steps taken by the district administration, the number of cases from Darasuram is declining. However, as per the list released by the district administration, the city corporation limit and a few areas such as Pattukottai and Adhirampattinam have started recording more cases. Officials said that continuous door-to-door screening and fever camps have resulted in more cases being reported. A total of 104 fever camps have been conducted within the corporation limits, where 4,130 people were screened. Around 9,000 residents from Kumbakonam municipality limits have been screened at 109 fever camps. This apart, around 3,000 people were tested from 33 fever camps organised in 37 streets in Pattukottai municipality limits. This apart, 18,063 people were screened at the fever camps conducted in 379 spots in the rural areas. Altogether, 33,865 people had been screened till July 26 during the third phase of the process across the district, officials said. District collector M Govinda Rao told TOI that there were no new clusters emerging in the district. “It is a normal trend in most of the districts. However, efforts are being taken to combat the spread of the virus in all possible ways as per the protocol,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/more-than-half-of-thanjavur-cases-in-last-10-days/articleshow/77249759.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
July 30, 2020||Allahabad||Help pours for Nepal youth unable to pay IIM-A fee after TOI news report||Prayagraj: After TOI news report highlighted the plight of Aashik Jayswal, a youth from Nepal, qualifying for admission in IIM-Ahmedabad but being unable to get a loan to pay the fee, many good samaritans came forward to help him. 24-year-old Aashik hails from a farming family of Dahiyar village in Nepal. After completing BSc in agriculture from SHUATS, Naini, he has got selected for two-year PGP course in Food and Agri Business Management of IIM-A. Aashik and his family have no means to pay Rs 24 lakh course fee in total. He had to deposit Rs 3.8 lakh for the first semester. His father, a teacher, has a small land holding, which barely feeds the joint family of 17 members. “After Times of India highlighted my problem, I received help from several corners. A businessman and an NGO from Ahmedabad, another businessman from Nagpur and an entrepreneur from Nepal have come forward to help,” said Aashik. The Ahmedabad-based NGO wants to remain anonymous patron of Ashik who did BSc on Indian Council for Cultural Relations scholarship. A 67 year old businessman from Ahmedabad Pankaj Mashruwala, who also helped, was trapped in similar conditions in 1969 when he was unable to pay fee for his graduation. “My friends paid my fee. After doing my BSc in 1975, I started my business with a loan of Rs 4,000 from a relative. I decided to pay the fee of his first semester at IIM-A,” Pankaj told TOI. “He said he would return the money after completing studies, but I said he should keep the chain moving by helping someone else in life,” he added. Another businessman from Nagpur, K S Cheema, has offered loan of the remaining fee of entire course. An entrepreneur running an education firm at Kathmandu, Diwesh Bothra has also promised help to Aashik. “Someone shared the link of the news on social media which immediately grabbed my attention and I decided to help this boy by taking care of the funds for one term of his course. We have been sponsoring and helping a number of students from our country to go to India and other countries for higher studies,” said Bothra, founding director of JD Group of companies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/help-pours-for-nepal-youth-unable-to-pay-iim-a-fee-after-toi-news-report/articleshow/77247048.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Delhi||Leave deducted for time spent in isolation: Contractual docs||NEW DELHI: Contractual doctors working with Delhi government are a worried lot. They claim that they are being considered on leave for the number of days they spend in quarantine recovering from the novel coronavirus. A doctor working in Wazirabad has urged the chief minister to look into the issue. In an email, she wrote: “I didn’t become Covid positive by choice but while I was on duty. Every day we are risking the lives of our family members and coming to work so that citizens don’t suffer. My leave for the period in home isolation has been cut from my balance leaves. Please grant me special leave for that period and don’t cut my balance leaves.” Last week, National Health Mission (NHM) Doctors Welfare Association had met the Delhi health minister and raised the issue of leave deduction. Several doctors and other healthcare staffers contracted the virus while on duty and had to be in home isolation. The number of days they were in home quarantine is now being considered as their leave period. TOI had highlighted the issue in the first week of July. “These are tough times and all the doctors and paramedical staff are working tirelessly. Some of them are becoming Covid positive on duty and have to be in home isolation for the safety of their colleagues as well as others. We are putting our lives in danger and working. I got positive and my period in home isolation has been deducted from my balance leave days,” rued a doctor working as a medical officer in North Delhi. Dr Alka Choudhary, president of the state unit of the doctors welfare association, said: “The association members had met the health minister last Wednesday and raised this issue among others. We were told to wait till August 4, but now several doctors are informing that their leave has been deducted. Our requests are basic and need immediate attention.” “Some doctors have even sent emails to the higher authorities. We expect a positive response,” Choudhary added. Other demands of the doctors include health benefit or Covid incentive, removal of capping on their salaries and conveyance charge, which was approved in 2017 but never given. Meanwhile, the families of those who test positive have to bear the expenses on their own. Dr Shruti Mittal works at a dispensary in Raj Nagar area of Dwarka. Mittal’s husband who suffered from other health issues later passed away. “All my savings were spent on his treatment; we had to even sell our 28-year-old clinic. If I had any health benefits, it would have been helpful in these times,” said Mittal. Despite repeated attempts, TOI could not get a response from the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/leave-deducted-for-time-spent-in-isolation-contractual-docs/articleshow/77250843.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Delhi||Amid tussle over lawyers, Arvind Kejriwal meets LG at Raj Niwas||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal called upon lieutenant governor Anil Baijal at Raj Niwas on Wednesday evening, a day after the tussle between the two constitutional authorities in Delhi over the appointment of public prosecutors in the northeast riots and anti-citizenship Act protest cases got escalated. No third person was present during the meeting, said a source. It is being speculated that they discussed the appointment of lawyers and tried to reach a consensus on the names. On Tuesday, the Delhi cabinet, chaired by Kejriwal, rejected the Delhi Police panel of lawyers and asked the home department to prepare a panel of the best lawyers of the country to represent the state. The government said the decision was taken to ensure that those guilty of causing communal violence got exemplary punishment while the innocent were protected. Earlier, the Aam Aadmi Party government had requested the LG to allow its standing counsel and his team to represent the state, but Baijal refused. Under the Constitution, the LG enjoys the powers to refer the matter to the President. An official in his office said the LG had not yet done so. A few days ago, an irked Delhi high court adjourned till August 17 a riots case, after a fresh application was filed by yet another lawyer claiming to represent Delhi Police. “Why don’t both governments sit together and resolve the issue rather than unnecessarily waste the time of courts?” Justice Suresh Kait said, referring to the Centre and Delhi government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/amid-tussle-over-lawyers-cm-meets-lg-at-raj-niwas/articleshow/77250819.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 23 Covid-19 cases force Medak town into lockdown||HYDERABAD: With 23 Covid-19 cases reported in a single day (July 28), Ramayampet town in Medak district has decided to observe a voluntary lockdown from July 31 for two weeks. Traders held a meeting on Tuesday and conveyed their decision to go for a total shutdown to the local municipal authorities. Medical shops, petrol bunks and other essential services have been exempted. During the 14-day lockdown (till August 13), shops will remain closed. “The traders have taken a decision on their own to prevent the spread of Covid-19,” Ramayampet circle inspector Nagarjun Goud told TOI on Wednesday. A total of 147 Covid-19 positive cases have been detected in Medak district since July 22. Municipal chairman Jitender Goud urged people to cooperate with the authorities and observe the voluntary lockdown. He said people must wear a mask if they are stepping out, failing which a fine of Rs 1,000 would be imposed. “For the benefit of people, vegetable shops will be open up to 10 am,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/23-cases-force-medak-town-into-lockdown/articleshow/77249754.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 30, 2020||Kanpur||Sanjeet’s father threatens suicide if body not found||Kanpur: As police failed to find the body of murdered lab technician Sanjeet Yadav even after five days, his father on Wednesday threatened to commit suicide along with his entire family if “justice” eludes them for long. Sanjeet’s father Chaman Singh told reporters that first they will meet chief minsiter Yogi Adityanath with their demands. “If even after meeting the CM we will not get justice, we will commit suicide by setting ourselves ablaze in front of Vidhan Sabha in Lucknow,” Singh said further. The police could not recover the body of the deceased even after five days. Chaman Singh further said, “It’s not only the body, the police till date have not recovered his other belongings including his bag and ATM card. Police have only recovered his bike.” Pointedly, Sanjeet’s family had alleged that when he was kidnapped on June 22, they were asked by the police to arrange a ransom of Rs 30 lakh and hand it over to the kidnappers. They claimed they threw a bag containing the cash on a road from the top of a flyover as instructed in the presence of police, who could not prevent the kidnappers from escaping with the bag and also failed to get back Sanjeet. Sanjeet’s mother and sister said they had sold jewellery and property to arrange the ransom money. To recall, a 28-year-old lab technician Sanjeet was kidnapped in Barra area on June 22, had been murdered by his abductors. According to the police, the kidnappers killed the youth last month, on June 27, a few days after abducting him, and dumped his body in the Pandu River.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/sanjeets-father-threatens-suicide-if-body-not-found/articleshow/77250826.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Mysuru||Construction sector feels the heat as migrant workers refuse to return||Mysuru: Construction sector which was badly hit during the lockdown is now slowly picking up in Mysuru after the relaxation announced by the government. While the private players have begun work on their pending projects, work under the government sector — construction of bridges, roads, approval for development of new layouts, apartments and other new projects — have not yet begun due to delay in clearance of bills of works undertaken by government agencies including Mysuru Urban Development Authority and Mysuru City Corporation, minor irrigation department, public works department and Cauvery Neeravari Nigam Limited among others. As most of the district administration and MCC officials are engaged in tackling the pandemic, the construction sector is facing hardship in the district. Speaking to TOI, Builders Association of India Mysuru chapter president Rathnaraj said that the construction sector has come to a grinding halt in the rapidly developing district. The district, which has over 70,000 registered construction workers, has only a few thousands working at the construction projects in the district post-lockdown. Most of them stay away either due to the fear of the pandemic or lack of public transports including train services. Several people associated with Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI), National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO), Builders Association of India, private contractors’ associations and firms involved in construction sector said projects have been put on hold due to acute labor shortage “Over 20,000 such labourers who left the city two months back to their native places like Bihar, Rajasthan, Orissa, West Bengal, and Uttar Pradesh have not yet returned leaving most of the big projects in limbo. We desperately need to start work and hence we are trying all means possible to bring them back. The workers are not ready to come back fearing Covid-19. We are assuring them that we will take good care of them and offer them best of the facilities such as weekly visits by doctors, accommodation and facilities,” said Rathnaraj. As disbursement of money by banks to companies and home buyers for several construction linked projects was halted, only few ongoing projects have restarted. The work has not yet begun in full swing and is progressing slowly. “Our project is delayed by at least a year, and if we don’t get workers soon enough, it will be delayed further,” said Shashiraj, a private contractor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/construction-sector-feels-the-heat-as-migrant-workers-refuse-to-return/articleshow/77248342.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Vadodara||Panchmahal cops unearth Rs 1L worth of illegal firearms||Vadodara: In one of the biggest hauls in recent times, Panchmahal police seized a huge stash of country-made firearms including 13 guns and ammunition at a check post early on Wednesday morning. According to police, these illegal weapons were thrown away by two accused after they spotted police checking vehicles at the check post erected at Sant Road to check vehicles arriving from Dahod and Godhra. Early on Wednesday morning, two persons riding a motorcycle without a registration plate were spotted coming towards the check post.However, no sooner they saw cops on the road, the duo alighted from their bike, dropped the two bags on the spot and escaped towards the railway line near the highway on foot. Cops tried to trace the duo, but they disappeared in the darkness.On searching the two bags, police found seven country-made pistols, seven magazines, three ‘tamanchas’, three country-made rifles, 55 9mm cartridges and five 7.62mm cartridges. The total value of the seizure is estimated to be Rs 1.28 lakh. An offence regarding the seizure was registered at the Morva Hadaf police station. Sources said that the country-made firearms may have been smuggled into the state from neighbouring Madhya Pradesh. In the past small such seizures have been made, but the present stash is the biggest so far.The police has gathered CCTV footages from toll booths in the area as well as other places to trace the route that the duo may have followed. They were spotted in the footage of a CCTV at a toll booth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/panchmahal-cops-unearth-rs-1l-worth-of-illegal-firearms/articleshow/77247886.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Fund crunch hits railways, most new infra projects in Bengaluru on hold||BENGALURU: The railway board on Tuesday decided to keep newly sanctioned projects in abeyance in the wake of a financial crunch that has hit the sector. While South Western Railway (SWR) is yet to prepare a list of projects that are likely to be affected, railway activists said many initiatives will suffer. These include Cantonment suburban terminal, Yeshwantpur second terminal, quadrupling of Bengaluru Cantonment-KR Puram-Whitefield line, electrification of Yelahanka-Devanahalli-Kolar section, doubling of Yeshwantpur-Channasandra and Byappanahalli-Hosur corridor. Work on railway over/under bridges, elimination of level-crossing, track renewal, bridges and tunnel work, automatic signalling work and doubling and electrification of other sections is also likely to suffer. Ashish Singh, director, railway board (finance) wrote to general managers of all railway zones to keep all recently sanctioned projects in abeyance. The suspended works include new projects mentioned in 2020-21 railway pink book, projects approved till 2019-20, but which have made little progress and works which were yet to (from 2018-19 and 2019-20). However, those that may impact the safe running of trains have been exempted. “We will take a call based on status of individual projects, its viability and importance,” said a senior SWR official. Asked about the suburban railway project, he said: “This has nothing to do with the suburban rail project. That is not even sanctioned yet.” The railway board’s decision came after Union ministry of finance’s letter on June 4 to review the projects “in view of the circumstances prevailing in the current financial year”. Singh urged all general managers to review already approved works. “Exemption for sanction of works which are considered essential and inescapable will be obtained from the Union ministry of finance,” he added. Rail activists say many crucial railway projects in the city may be put on the back burner. “Most of the new lines and doubling projects will be affected. Work on third coaching terminal at Byappanahalli is in the final phase, but it might be further delayed. The new terminals at Yeshwantpur and Cantonment will also be hit,” rued rail enthusiast Abhishek R. Sanjeev Dyamannavar, a commuter rail activist, said: “Quadrupling of Bengaluru Cantonment-KR Puram-Whitefield line may be affected. Major work has not started as the tender was awarded only last year.”  “This will mainly affect railway works which haven’t made any physical progress,” said Karnataka Railway Vedike member KN Krishna Prasad. However, another railway official said: “Most of the works which are being taken up this year were sanctioned earlier. However, this decision will affect shortlisting and processing of next year’s works, which were sanctioned in the current year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/new-projects-put-on-hold-rly-infra-to-take-a-hit/articleshow/77249234.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
July 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: 67-year-old sues post office for lost letter, wins Rs 55,000||BENGALURU: A 67-year-old Bengaluru resident, who sued a post office for losing his letter sent to Mumbai, received a compensation of Rs 55,000 after a six-year legal battle. The missing letter contained a registered will and two original college mark sheets of his children. The city court overruled the immunity provided by the Post Offices Act-1898 to the department personnel, saying it’s high time the staff took responsibility for customers’ suffering. L Jayakumar, a resident of 5th Block in Koramangala, sent a letter through speed post from the post office at 6th Block on June 29, 2013. Much to his shock, the letter did not reach Mumbai. Following this, he sent a complaint to the Post Master of Koramangala. On August 7, 2013, he received a reply stating the letter had been wrongly sent to the Income Tax office in Electronics City. Jayakumar’s several attempts to retrieve the letter did not yield results and the authorities closed the matter, stating it couldn’t be traced. On December 20, 2013, the senior citizen approached the Bangalore Urban 2nd Additional District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum with a complaint against the post master of the Koramangala PO, senior superintendent of post, Bengaluru south division, and general most master of GPO Bengaluru for deficiency of service.  Postal Act ‘antiquated’ The postal department’s attorney wanted the complaint to be dismissed stating there’s no service deficiency as it acknowledged the letter was wrongly delivered and could not be traced. The contents of the letter claimed by the customer was untrue, the department stated. Section 6 of the Post Offices Act-1898 reads “exemption of liability for loss, mis-deliver, delay or damages, the government shall not incur any liability to any postal article in course of transmission by post unless the staff has committed fraud or by wilful act or default.” The city consumer court judges, who examined the case for six years and six months, termed the Act ‘antiquated’ and said it was time the postal department personnel own up their mistakes. Citing earlier verdicts by courts in Kerala and Odisha in favour of the customer in similar litigations, the judges said the Bengaluru postal department was at fault in this case. The forum ruled on June 24, 2020 that the department must pay Rs 50,000 to Jayakumar as compensation for losing his letter in addition to Rs 5,000 towards his court expenses , all within 60 days from the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-67-year-old-sues-post-office-for-lost-letter-wins-rs-55000/articleshow/77249211.cms||Petlee Peter
July 30, 2020||Nagpur||Amravati witnesses 23.16% jump in results||Nagpur: On the lines of the entire state’s results, Amravati division too achieved its best ever performance with a jump of 23.16% in pass percentage in comparison to last year’s results. At 71.98% last year, it was at the second last place, above Nagpur, among all nine divisions. This year, it climbed three spots to finish at fifth place with 95.14% success rate. Before this, the division had never crossed the 90% barrier in a decade while the highest was 86.84% in 2015. Its worst performance was in 2011 when it managed to secure a poor pass percentage of 43.32. Among five districts in the division, Buldhana topped the chart with an impressive 96.10% score, followed by Washim with 96.09% and Akola at 95.52%. Amravati was pushed to the bottom spot with 93.94% students clearing the exams. About 1.67 lakh students appeared in the exams from all five districts of which 1.59 lakh managed to clear it. From them, 56,341 secured distinction, 50,035 passed in first, 35,425 in second and 8,512 in the pass class. As many as 8,797 students scored over 90% marks, which the board officials claimed to be best ever in its history. Even repeaters too improved their pass percentage with 16,423 clearing the exam from 19,394 who appeared for it. Interestingly, 53 of them secured distinction grades, 194 first, 28 second and 15,908 cleared in pass class. Among 53 candidates from distinction grade, 34 are from Buldhana. DIVISION AND GRADE WISE PERFORMANCE OF FRESH CANDIDATES DIVISION – AMRAVATI District ... No. of …. No. of …………. pass no. of candidates ………………………….… Total pass …. pass % ……… Registered ... Appeared … dis’tion ... 1st grade ... 2nd grade …. Pass Akola …. 27091 ……….26933 ….… 8938 …..… 9099 …… ... 6145 ….…. 1545 …………. 25727 …...... 95.52% Amt …. 41290 ……. 41005 … … 11876 … … 14357 ……. 9740 ……… 2548 …………. 38521 ……… 93.94% B’ldna … 40250 ……. 40029 …. 16087 ……. 13731 ……. 7109 ……… 1542 …………. 38469 ……… 96.10% Ytl … 39218 ……. 38863 …. 10651 … … 14714 ……… 9136 ……… 2277 ……………. 36778 ……. 94.63% Washim …. 20756 ……… 20625 …. 8789 …… ... 7134 ………. 3295 ……. 600 ……………… 19818 ……. 96.09% Total … … 108605 …. 167455 …. 56341 … … 59035 ……. 35425 ……… 8512 …………. 159313 … … 95.14%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amravati-witnesses-23-16-jump-in-results/articleshow/77250364.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Mysuru||3 Covid +ve students to appear for CET||Mysuru: The district administration has made special arrangements for students — both Covid positive and those from containment zones — planning to appear for Common Entrance Test for professional courses on Thursday and Friday. Three positive students undergoing treatment will appear for the examination KSOU Covid Care Centre (CCC) on National Highway-766 and they would be ferried in an ambulance from either their home or from Covid hospital. They would also be dropped back in the same vehicle. A team of doctors, principals and lectures has been constituted to implement the plan. CET for Biology and Mathematics will be held from 10.30 am and 11.50 am and 2.30 pm and 3.50 pm respectively on July 30 and Physics and Chemistry papers will be held on July 31. As many as 10,368 students are expected to appear for CET. Deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said the answer scripts of the three positive students will be kept in sealed covers and kept in a box for about a week before they’re opened for valuation. Precautionary measures have been taken to ensure social distancing, he said. Officials will screen students at all 26 centres in the district — 20 within the city and six in taluks. Entry to the centres will begin as early as 8am — two hours before the commencement to of exam to facilitate health screening. While regular students must wear masks, Covid positive students have been askedd to wear a face shield and N95 mask. Students from containment zones or those with flu-like symptoms will be made to write exams in separate rooms. Students and parents may contact our control room at 0821-2423800 for any queries, the DC added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/3-covid-ve-students-to-appear-for-cet/articleshow/77248686.cms||Lawrence Milton
July 30, 2020||Mysuru||Yediyurappa will complete his term as CM, says former minister||Mysuru: Former minister and BJP MLA Murugesh Nirani on Wednesday said BS Yediyurappa will be the CM for the next three years and there will be no change in leadership. Nirani, a close confidant of Yediyurappa, was responding to reporters’ questions on deputy chief minister DCM Laxman Savadi’s recent visit to New Delhi on a day when the BJP government in the state completed one year in office. Savadi’s visit had sparked speculations about leadership change. Nirani said he has no knowledge about Savadi’s visit and meeting party national president JP Nadda. Stating that he was busy with his sugar factory, Nirani added, “I have a Rs 5,000 crore business to run. Even if I don’t get a ticket in the election, I will remain in BJP. The party has given me everything.” Reiterating that he will participate in the tender for Mysugar Factory, Nirani said Pandavapura Sahakari Sakkare Kharkane (PSSK) which he had taken lease for 40 years will be relaunched from August 11. “The inauguration programme will be attended by CM Yediyurappa, Mysuru royal family members Pramodha Devi Wadiyar and Yaduveera Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar, Suttur Mutt seer Shivaratri Deshikendra Swami and ministers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/yediyurappa-will-complete-his-term-as-cm-says-former-minister/articleshow/77248763.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Vadodara||Panchmahal cops unearth Rs 1L worth of illegal firearms||Vadodara: In one of the biggest hauls in recent times, Panchmahal police seized a huge stash of country-made firearms including 13 guns and ammunition at a check post early on Wednesday morning. According to police, these illegal weapons were thrown away by two accused after they spotted police checking vehicles at the check post erected at Sant Road to check vehicles arriving from Dahod and Godhra. Early on Wednesday morning, two persons riding a motorcycle without a registration plate were spotted coming towards the check post. However, no sooner they saw cops on the road, the duo alighted from their bike, dropped the two bags on the spot and escaped towards the railway line near the highway on foot. Cops tried to trace the duo, but they disappeared in the darkness. On searching the two bags, police found seven country-made pistols, seven magazines, three ‘tamanchas’, three country-made rifles, 55 9mm cartridges and five 7.62mm cartridges. The total value of the seizure is estimated to be Rs 1.28 lakh. An offence regarding the seizure was registered at the Morva Hadaf police station. Sources said that the country-made firearms may have been smuggled into the state from neighbouring Madhya Pradesh. In the past small such seizures have been made, but the present stash is the biggest so far. The police has gathered CCTV footages from toll booths in the area as well as other places to trace the route that the duo may have followed. They were spotted in the footage of a CCTV at a toll booth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/panchmahal-cops-unearth-rs-1l-worth-of-illegal-firearms/articleshow/77247924.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Mysuru||Dwindling income compels zoos in Karnataka to seek donations for sustenance||MYSURU: The curbs imposed owing to the Covid-19 crisis, in addition to the prevailing dread of the pandemic has resulted in the tourism industry taking a terrible beating this year. In Mysuru, one of the tourist hotspots in Karnataka, the future is looking particularly grim, and the widely popular 128-year-old Mysuru Zoo, its funds dwindling swiftly, is banking on the support of generous donors and philanthropists to nourish the animals in captivity. The zoo is home to more than 1,400 mammals, birds and reptiles, of which 500 are specimens of exotic species. The zoo is renowned as a breeding centre for giraffes, many of those born here having been shipped to other conservatories such as Patna Zoo and the Bannerghatta Biological Park. However, having remained shut for more than two months during the lockdown, and its income having taken a hit, the institution is facing a crippling cash crunch. The entrance fee paid by visitors remains the largest source of income for the zoo, the average number of visitors per year being around the 3.3 million mark. The situation in the eight other animal conservatories of Karnataka is not dissimilar. Not only has the lack of visitors resulted in revenues drying up, but the lack of financial support from the government has only compounded their woes. Member-secretary of Zoo Authority of Karnataka and additional principal chief conservator of forests BP Ravi admitted to the pandemic having taken a toll on the conservatories across the state. “Revenue from gate collection across zoos helped us make Rs 60 crore last financial year. This year, we have only managed to make Rs 50 lakh so far,” said Ravi, adding that intervention of Mysuru district in-charge minister ST Somashekar had helped the zoo earn Rs 3.5 crore in the form of donations. BP Ravi who heads all nine zoos in Karnataka says Zoos are badly affected since the advent of covid pandemic. These facilities thrived on tourists. Lockdown restrictions and thereafter the number of visitors has dipped drastically, and major revenue sources of gate collection have dried up. He said that an app had been launched to facilitate donations to sustain zoos and to adopt animals housed there. Historian PV Nanjaraj Urs lashed out at the state government for failing to lend a helping hand to the conservatories in a time of distress. “Seeking donations should be the last resort. Mysuru Zoo, which has a long history, has not had to face such a situation ever,” Urs said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/dwindling-income-compels-zoos-in-karnataka-to-seek-donations-for-sustenance/articleshow/77249139.cms||Lawrence Milton
July 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Experts welcome new chapter, worry about money and mindset||BENGALURU: The Union cabinet’s decision to approve the National Education Policy (NEP), heralded as transformative and long over due, has been welcomed by city educationists, though some of them also raised concerns on its implementation and the contested issue of the medium of instruction. Chetan Singai, associate professor, Ramaiah University of Applied Sciences, told TOI: “At the meta-level, the policy provides a vision as to how education must look not just today, but till 2040. The temporality component invokes accountability and a time frame for the goals to be achieved. We now have a direction, a reference document.” Singai said the policy also lays emphasis on reducing regulation in higher education, which lessens complexities in the system. “It makes it ‘light but tight’. Institutions will have autonomy, but be more responsible and open to public disclosures,” he said, adding the component on digital education has become more important in the current circumstances. Prof S Sadagopan, director, International Institute of Information Technology-Bangalore, said: “There are a few stellar points for me. One, we’re back at looking at education at a holistic level and not merely as knowledge. Two, there has been a sensible timeline for achieving these goals. Also the fact that too many regulatory bodies that were at loggerheads are being removed and autonomy being given to the institutions,” he said. Some apprehensionsD Sashi Kumar, secretary, Association of Managements of Schools-Karnataka, said the clause making mother tongue the medium of instruction till class 5 and preferably till class 8 is contempt of Supreme Court ruling. “SC, in 2014, had said the child, or his parent/guardian on his behalf has the right to choose the medium of instruction in primary schools. The new education policy violates this right. We request the government to change this,” he said. Experts also feel that policy implementation will be a challenge. “A policy is a document, a statement of interest. But the real challenge comes during implementation. Do we have the political will to do bring in some of these changes,” wondered Prof P Balram, former director of Indian Institute of Science.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/experts-welcome-new-chapter-worry-about-money-mindset/articleshow/77249316.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
July 30, 2020||Nagpur||Admission to Std XI will see tough competition: Experts||Nagpur: High scores in SSC results have led to speculations that admissions in state board junior colleges will see a healthy competition. In city, it is common for CBSE Std X students to shift to state junior colleges in science stream where their high scores gave them an upper edge. Now, with state board students too scoring high, the stage may be set for an intense admission battle.Senior academician Madhu Joseph said, “The admission phase will be a bit tough since the number of merit students has seen a steep rise. However, colleges have more than enough seats so admissions won’t be affected much but getting into good colleges will be a problem. Even today students are opting for Science so that stream will be affected with the most applicants.”Sundip Gaikwad, principal of Mecosabagh Methodist High School, said, “There will be tough competition for Std XI admissions due to high marks. But not only in science, I feel arts stream will also attract lot of students because of vast career options.” Prashansa Dlima, teacher at St Ursula School, felt that CBSE students have always held an advantage. “There is a vast difference in the board patterns of CBSE and state. State board students really had to struggle for every mark, but in CBSE there is the buffer of internal marks,” said Dlima. Tejinder Venugopal, principal of Dayanand Arya Kanya Vidyalaya, said there will be a gravitation towards science stream now. “When students obtain high marks, parents feel that their child should opt for science. Later, students wish to change their streams due to difficulties in coping up. The Std X results don’t decide what the student wants to pursue eventually.”Ashok Gavhankar, senior academician said competition will be only for few colleges, but it won’t matter in the long run. “Anyway, we have excess seats so admissions won’t be a major obstacle. Everybody will get admissions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/admission-to-std-xi-will-see-tough-competition-experts/articleshow/77250567.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Walk-in interviews for doctors on July 31 in districts||HYDERABAD: In view of the prevailing Covid-19 situation, the state government has given officials the liberty to recruit doctors as per the need in the districts. Therefore, several districts officials in the state are conducting walk-in interviews on July 31 at the district collectorates from 11 am to 5 pm. However, the posts are temporary in nature - for a year - and the salary is fixed. Nalgonda district collector Prashant Patil said 20 civil assistant surgeons are needed in primary health centres (PHCs) in Nalgonda, Suryapet, and Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri, which were part of the erstwhile Nalgonda district. Those with an MBBS degree have been asked to appear for the walk-in interview at the Nalgonda district collectorate along with all necessary documents from 11 am to 5 pm on July 31. The salary will be Rs 40,270 and the contract may be renewed depending on the need after completion of one year. Similarly, in erstwhile Medak district comprising Sangareddy, Medak and Siddipet, 20 civil assistant surgeons’ posts will be filed and the walk-in interview will be at the Medak district collectorate auditorium. In erstwhile Nizamabad district comprising Nizamabad and Kamareddy, 20 posts will be filled. Nizamabad collector C Narayana Reddy said that apart from the salary, applicable incentives may also be given to applicants who get selected. The interviews will be held at Pragathi Bhavan at the district collectorate. The walk-in interviews will also be conducted at the revenue meeting hall at the collectorate office in Mahbubnagar. The civil assistant surgeons are needed for Mahbubnagar, Gadwal, Wanaparthy, Nagarkurnool and Narayanpet. Candidates appearing for the walk-in interview will have to take original certificates along with one photocopy of SSC, MBBS, integrated caste certificate, two copies of passport size photos and TS Medical Council registration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/walk-in-interviews-for-docs-on-july-31-in-dists/articleshow/77249766.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 30, 2020||Vijayawada||DGP confers HoD status on SEB, can now seek government funds directly||VIJAYAWADA: The director general of police D Gautam Sawang issued a government order notifying Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) as a head of department (HoD) under the Andhra Pradesh Finance Code and Andhra Pradesh Treasure Code for financial purposes on Tuesday. This is the first time in the country where a sitting DGP, who also heads SEB as ex-officio principal secretary to government, issued a GO on his own. The SEB commissioner who must be an inspector-general rank or above would be the HoD of the SEB. SEB commissioner Vineet Brijlal made the request seeking the HoD and based on his proposal, the request was granted. The HoD status conferred on the SEB would help the department seek finances directly from the state government without any middle management involved. The SEB was created on May 2020 in a bid to crackdown on the illicit liquor and illegal sand mining operations in the state. SEB is as a wing within the General Administration Department (GAD) headed by the DGP in his official capacity as ex-officio principal secretary. Rather than getting GOs from the GAD, the principal secretary post for SEB qualifies the person to issue government order for SEB-related operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dgp-confers-hod-status-on-seb-can-now-seek-govt-funds-directly/articleshow/77248415.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Delhi||HC: What action against buildings on shaky ground?||NEW DELHI: What action has been taken by Delhi’s civic agencies against buildings that were slapped with show-cause notices for being found seismically unsafe and vulnerable to earthquakes? Delhi high court on Wednesday asked the AAP government and other civic corporations including DDA to file a report outlining the steps taken in this regard. The court’s poser came after the three municipal corporations, Delhi Development Authority and the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) informed the court that they have identified high risk buildings in their jurisdictions and issued notices asking the owners to get these audited for structural defects and seismic stability. “What have you done after the issuing of notices? You have to show progress,” the bench said, while asking for detailed reports from each of the departments by August 31, next date of hearing. The court also sought clarity from Delhi government if it has set up any expert committee, as proposed by a notification of April last year, to examine seismic stability of the buildings in the capital. It is hearing a plea by petitioner-advocate, Arpit Bhargava, seeking setting up of a monitoring committee to ensure timely implementation of the action plan for strengthening buildings in Delhi. The application says a panel must supervise the work done by authorities, since they require constant “prodding” even though between April 12 and July 3, a total of 14 earthquakes have struck the Delhi-National Capital Region. Bhargav’s plea also highlighted that since the Centre has not filed any response or affidavit regarding steps taken by it, there is no clarity on seismic stability of buildings such as Vigyan Bhavan, Shastri Bhavan and others where high ranking officials work. The municipal corporations, meanwhile, have filed similar additional affidavits stating that between the three of them, they have employed 144 structural engineers to audit the stability of buildings under their jurisdiction. On June 18, the high court had pulled up Delhi government and all the local authorities for non-implementation of the action plans for ensuring seismic stability of buildings in the national capital. The application was filed in Bhargava’s main petition filed in 2015 claiming that the seismic stability of buildings in Delhi was poor and in case of a major earthquake there could be large numbers of casualties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-what-action-against-buildings-on-shaky-ground/articleshow/77250861.cms||Abhinav Garg
July 30, 2020||Kochi||Petition in high court seeks arrest of Rehana Fathima||KOCHI: A petition has been filed before the high court questioning the delay in arresting activist Rehana Fathima in the case over posting video of her children painting on her semi-nude body on social media. The petitioner is seeking to change the investigating officer citing the delay. The petition was filed by advocate AV Arun Prakash of Thiruvalla pointing out that the investigating officer failed to arrest Rehana despite the high court dismissing her plea for anticipatory bail on July 24. One of the two cases against the activist was registered on the basis of the petitioner’s complaint. She had subsequently approached the Supreme Court for anticipatory bail and the plea is pending. Alleging delay in arresting the accused, the petition said the FIR was registered on June 25 but police have failed to arrest her. If it was some other accused involved in some minor offence, police would have resorted to coercive measures by now, the petitioner contends. Within 10 minutes of the court dismissing her bail plea, Rehana uploaded a video criticizing the judiciary and challenging the findings, it is alleged. She was seen mocking the entire system of law and judiciary in her new video, the petition said. The petitioner is seeking a court directive to hand over investigation to an assistant commissioner so as to complete the probe without delay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/delay-in-arrest-of-rehana-questioned/articleshow/77248417.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Nagpur||Return of internal marks behind surge in pass %: Experts||Nagpur: For the first time ever, all divisions of state board ended up with passing percentages of over 90 in SSC exam. This unprecedented rise in has naturally led to questions on what could have led to this resurgence. While the board attributes it to reintroduction of internal marks and changes in paper pattern, many feel that ‘lenient evaluation’ played an equally important role. State board chairperson Shakuntala Kale claimed that two initiatives led to the resurgence. “The increase in pass percentage is due to reintroduction of orals, internals and activity-based questions,” said Kale. Her subordinate and Nagpur divisional board chairperson Ravikant Deshpande said engaging teachers to upgrade their skills was also a factor. “We conducted training of teachers according to the subjects they teach. These latest training skills empowered them to deploy their teaching skills in a better manner,” said Deshpande. He said district level meetings of principals was held too. “We discussed how they can implement certain practices in school to improve academic performance and thus the results during board exam,” Deshpande added. Zafar Khan, founder-president of School Headmasters Charitable Association (SHCA), said there is only one reason for the spurt in marks. “The reason is internal marks in languages and social sciences. This the only reason. Last year, the written language paper was of 100 and there were no oral marks. From this year again, we started oral marks in languages in which students usually score high,” said Khan. Premlata Tiwari, principal of Bhola High School, said increased awareness among parents could also be one of the reasons. “I have seen nowadays parents take a lot of interest in their child’s academic performance. They question teachers a lot and try to find out how their child can improve further,” said Tiwari. Though nobody agreed to speak on record, many accepted that ‘lenient evaluation’ could not be ruled out. An English teacher said, “Internal marks were given for many years before, but still this type of result has come for the first time. So, it seems that due to Covid-19, evaluators too did not wanted to put too much pressure on kids. It’s clear that many have been pushed over the passing marks so that they don’t get depressed further.” Geography exam for SSC was cancelled as the lockdown made it logistically impossible to conduct it. So, the state government allotted marks based on an evaluation formula decided by board officials. Tiwari said, “For Geography, everybody got marks and that helped them sail through.” Another state board principal felt it was about time that Maharashtra started lenient marking. “Look at CBSE, they just rain marks on their students whereas our board is looking to control it. I believe there was a tacit understanding that evaluators should not be hard in marking and that has resulted in the rise,” said the principal. It was definitely a big coincidence that so many different factors came together in the same year, thus benefiting students. Right from restarting internal marks, oral exams, change in pattern, Geography paper’s cancellation and lenient marking helped students to get much higher marks than their last year’s counterparts. Why the numbers jumped Internal marks: After a year’s gap, 20 internal marks policy was brought back Paper cancellation: Geography paper was cancelled due to lockdown. Marks given by board using a special formula Pattern change: Activity-based questions introduced. Easier to attempt compared to traditional theory intensive ones Lenient marking: It’s assumed by many that Covid-19 led evaluators to be more sympathetic towards students||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/return-of-internal-marks-behind-surge-in-pass-experts/articleshow/77250858.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 30, 2020||Nagpur||Special coaching raises NMC schools’ performance||Nagpur: The special coaching for students of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) schools has shown results, with this year’s SSC results increasing by 35% as compared to last year. Three NMC schools have shown 100% results and students from more than 12 schools have scored 90% and above. The concept of special coaching was introduced at the start of the last session by education committee chairperson Dilip Dive and additional commissioner Ram Joshi, and implemented by education officer Preeti Mishrikotkar. All meritorious students of NMC schools were felicitated at an event at Punjabrao Deshmukh Hall of NMC headquarters on Wednesday. Among Marathi medium schools, Jayanta Alone, a student of Durga Nagar Municipal Marathi Secondary School, secured the first position with 94.6% while Sameer Jambhulkar of Dattatraya Nagar Municipal Marathi Secondary School secured the second position with 93.8%. A student of Shivangaon Marathi Secondary School, Bharti Nagarare, and Santosh Giri from Durga Nagar Municipal Corporation Marathi Secondary School jointly secured the third position with 90.8%. From English medium schools, Anshara Muniba of GM Banatwala Municipal English School stood first with 90.6% whereas Tasmiya Kauser stood second with 83.6%. This year’s total pass percentage of Hindi medium schools is 80.97%. Trupti Dubey of Saraswati Tiwari Secondary School scored 89.6% and stood first in Urdu medium. Mihir Kokarde of Vivekananda Hindi Secondary School stood second with 85%. The overall percentage of NMC Urdu medium schools is 92.73%. Chetan Kakade and Shivraj Sawale bagged the first position with 76.2% in the disabled category. Standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke, leader of opposition Tanaji Vanve, Shiv Sena group leader Kishore Kumeria, Dive, deputy chairman Pramod Tabhane, corporator Dayashankar Tiwari, additional commissioner Ram Joshi, deputy commissioner Nirbhay Jain, education officer Preeti Mishrikotkar, assistant education officer Kusum Chaflekar, and sports officer Piyush Ambulkar were present during the felicitation ceremony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/special-coaching-raises-nmc-schools-performance/articleshow/77250375.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Trichy||50 govt colleges to go back to single shift on reopening||Trichy: The two shifts in 50 out of the 109 government arts and science colleges will be merged into one when the colleges reopen this year. Workings hours have also been restored to what it was before 2006.Two shifts were introduced in 2006 by advancing the working hours for shift – I beginning from 8.30am till 2 pm and shift – II starting from 2 pm till 6.30 pm. Before 2006, classes in government colleges started at 9 30 am.While there is no clarity on the reopening of colleges, the state government passed an order on Wednesday declaring merger of the two shifts in these colleges.At least 30-40% of students joining the government arts colleges opt part-time jobs either in the morning or in the evenings, said state vice-president of Tamil Nadu Government College Teachers Association (TNGCTA) G Ramesh.Change in timing will affect their work, which is sole means of livelihood for many students. Abolishing shift-II may increase the dropout rate, he said.The move has come following the proposal from the director of collegiate education (DCE) in this regard to the department of higher education. This was to enable students to improve their skills and academic performance. “Spending more time with teachers will be an avenue for students to identify their abilities. Restoring the old timings will also enable the students to participate in various sports activities and skill development programs,” said a DCE staff.More involvement in academics will pave way for quality education and enhanced employment. Staying and interacting with fellow students will enable peer learning among them, said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/50-govt-colleges-to-go-back-to-single-shift-on-reopening/articleshow/77249772.cms||Sampath Kumar
July 30, 2020||Trichy||Appeal to distribute organic produce through PDS||Thanjavur: In an effort to create awareness on safeguarding traditional paddy varieties among the farming community, CREATE an NGO organized the 14th national paddy festival in Thanjavur on Wednesday. Various resolutions have been adopted including to demand the state government to commence the sale of organic produce through Anganwadi noon meal centres and public distribution shops to encourage organic farming and to revive traditional paddy varieties. This would help the general public to have healthy food the resolution added. ‘Nel’ Jayaraman, who has revived 170 traditional paddy varieties as part of the Save our Rice (SoR) Campaign, conducted the festival for several years. After his demise, the festival is organized by CREATE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/appeal-to-distribute-organic-produce-through-pds/articleshow/77249767.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Trichy||Private trains to get space at railway yards for maintenance||Trichy: Taking forward the process of kick staring the operation of private trains across the country, the ministry of railways has asked general managers of all the zones to identify required infrastructure to set up yards to carry out maintenance of the private trains. The zonal railways are asked to provide the details by August 7.A total of 12 clusters to operate private trains have been identified by the ministry of railways. That list has the proposed train’s origin, destination and arrival or departure slots at various stations. Based on that, the zonal railway authorities are asked to identify the yards to maintain private trains. The private train operators, to be selected after a bidding process, will have to set up their own maintenance infrastructure at the allotted locations or can use the existing facility.As of now, a total of 109 routes have been identified. Of them, 24 services are proposed to be operated under Chennai cluster where nine yards would be set up including Trichy, Madurai, Chennai and Coimbatore. In order to maintain the rakes, Railways will provide a vacant land where the private players can set up a yard or they can use a space in the existing yard. Based on the requirement, the private operators are allowed to upgrade the facility. It is the responsibility of the railway authorities to make a provision of rail and road connectivity to the maintenance yards, the circular said.A two-hour slot would be needed in the existing washing lines of Railways for washing, cleaning and inspection after every 7,000km of running for the private trains. The washing lines needs to be electrified so that trains can be placed or removed from the washing line without using a shunting engine, the letter said.Respective railway officials are asked to identify suitable originating or terminating stations and slots. That should be reserved according to the timings or days of operation of private trains.Meanwhile, deputy general secretary of DREU D Manoharan said that a maximum of 24 workers are usually engaged to maintain a rake. He raised apprehensions that the introduction of private trains would lead to a decrease in the number of regular trains. This automatically would make the existing workers at the yards to lose their jobs.When contacted, a senior official from Trichy railway division told TOI that they are yet to receive any communique from their zonal headquarters. They would start the process based on the instructions from their headquarters, the officials told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/private-trains-to-get-space-at-railway-yards-for-maintenance/articleshow/77249781.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
July 30, 2020||Trichy||Mentors to guide govt school students preparing for Neet||Trichy: Government school students preparing for the national eligibility cum entrance test (Neet), will now get help from mentors, who have been appointed by the Trichy district chief education office (CEO). Each appointed person will mentor four students.Unlike last year, when residential Neet training was given to government school students, pre-recorded classes were streamed online for their preparation. Since these classes are not interactive, higher secondary teachers from government schools were given responsibility to guide the students. There are more than 300 Class XII students across the district, who will be monitored by mentors.Officials from the CEO office said the idea is to prepare government school students to pass Neet so that they can get seats in government medical colleges under the 7.5% horizontal reservation from this academic year. The state government has taken the ordinance route to extend 7.5% horizontal quota within the vertical quota extended to categories available to SC/ST, OBC and open category to those who studied in government schools from Classes I-XII and clear NEET.Speaking to TOI, CEO S Shanthi said the main objective of appointing mentor teachers is to motivate students. They will also give psychological counselling, which will enhance students’ productivity.Mentor teachers have created a WhatsApp group with the students they have been allotted. Students need to update the teacher on the outcome of their assessment test and their doubts during their preparation. Teachers will monitor the process in their preparation and will update it to the CEO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/mentors-to-guide-govt-school-students-preparing-for-neet/articleshow/77249778.cms||Sampath Kumar
July 30, 2020||Ahmedabad||Nursing student on Covid duty tests +ve||Ahmedabad: At a time when medical and paramedical students are receiving show-cause notices from colleges for not attending Covid duty, a nursing student in her final year of graduation tested coronavirus positive after she reported for work at a hospital. Currently, she is being treated in the same hospital where she was assigned duty. The undergraduate of GNM (General Nursing and Midwifery) at GCS Medical College had joined Covid duty at the GCS hospital between July 13 and July 19. “Her duty was in ICU. There were as many as 20 patients in the ward,” said sources. On completion of her duty on July 19, she was quarantined for a week. When she came home on July 27 after completion of her quarantine period, she complained about difficulty in breathing, said sources. “She met the college principal who admitted her as an indoor patient after she tested positive. Currently, she is stable,” said a college official. Her father said, “They could have started her duty with the general ward. I hope she gets the best treatment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nursing-student-on-covid-duty-tests-ve/articleshow/77249779.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Trichy||Flouting norms, Trichy colleges go for spot admissions sans merit list||Trichy: Two weeks after they started receiving online applications, most of the self-financing arts and science colleges in Trichy city have finished admissions to popular undergraduate programmes. Apparently, no merit list was prepared with the received applications and admission was carried out on first come first serve basis throwing norms to the wind. G Chithra, 18, had applied for BCom self-financing course in a government aided arts and science college a few days ago. She was informed by the college over phone that she needs to pay the semester fee of Rs 18,600 to confirm her seat. She paid up and was promptly allotted the seat in the self-financing section. Chithra is one among many students who have received calls from these colleges asking to pay fee to confirm their seats. Though the colleges have not stopped receiving applications, they have been going ahead filling the seats. T Nedunchezhian, a retired college professor, said Chithra got seat in a self-financing course but admission to these courses can only be done once seats in aided-courses are filled. Regional joint director of collegiate Education (RJDCE), which is the competent authority, had failed to act on such violations. The Covid-19 lockdown has made it all the more convenient for the colleges to violate rules at will, said Nedunchezhian. When TOI spoke to one of the principals in these colleges, he said that seats in the aided courses are already filled and they are on the verge of closing admissions to the self-financing courses. Those who scored over 500 out of 600 in class XII are admitted to the popular government aided courses within a few days of filing the application. But the seat is not confirmed unless they pay the whole semester fee. “Fees are collected from students to ensure that they don’t go to other colleges even if they get admission as fee would not be refunded,” said a staff member. A student is kept in reserve until he or she pays the semester fee, said a representative from another college adding that they are forced to do so because of intense competition. RJDCE T Arivudai Nambi could not be reached despite several attempts to reach him over phone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/flouting-norms-trichy-colleges-go-for-spot-admissions-sans-merit-list/articleshow/77249787.cms||Sampath Kumar
July 30, 2020||Kochi||Horticorp filed complaint against farmers||Idukki: Horticrop filed a complaint against two farmers in Vattavada who staged a protest against the corporation for not procuring the vegetable they harvested. Hearing the plight of farmers Palraj and his relative Palanivel Raj, Idukki MP Dean Kuriakaose intervened in the issue and police did not register a case. Palraj said, “I had harvested seven sacks of carrot (each weighing 50kg) as per the direction of Horticorp officials. But when it was time to procure the vegetable, the agency refused. When I asked about the reason, they filed a complaint with police, alleging that we blocked their official duty.” After Horticorp refused to procure the vegetable, the farmers were forced to sell it to a local vendor at Rs 5 per kg, he said. Horticorp procures carrot from them at Rs 10-15/kg. “The Horticorp officials are procuring vegetables from other areas such as Munnar at a cheap rate and then they bill it in the name of farmers in Vattavada,” said the farmer. K Jayaprakash, member of Vattavada farmers’ samithy, said, “Earlier when Horticorp failed to procure the vegetables, the farmers used to sell them to Tamil Nadu. But due to the Covid-19 pandemic, no traders from Tamil Nadu are coming to procure the vegetables. As there are no takers for harvested vegetables, some farmers are forced to abandon their produce.” Jijo R, manager of Horicorp Munnar, refuted the allegations. “In the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, we have limitations in procuring vegetables. We filed the complaint because farmers blocked our vehicle. They harvested vegetables without informing us.” Idukki MP Dean Kuriakose has said the farmers are facing a serious crisis due to the unethical stand by Horticorp officials. “After coming to know about their plight, I contacted deputy SP and asked him to not register case against the poor farmers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/horticorp-filed-complaint-against-farmers/articleshow/77248450.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||National awards for Vizag scientists||VISAKHAPATNAM: In recognition of their contribution to the field of oceanography, two scientists at CSIR-National Institute of Oceanography (NIO), Visakhapatnam Regional Centre, VVSS Sarma and Jagadeesan Laganthan, have been selected for national awards by the ministry of earth sciences and Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) 2020. The scientists will be awarded the National Award of Excellence and CSIR Young Scientist Award for studies in the fields of bio-geochemistry of the Indian Ocean and marine plankton ecology, respectively. Speaking about VVSS Sarma, a senior principal scientist, principal scientist and scientist in charge of NIO-RC Visakhapatnam, GPS Murty said his contributions lie in understanding the bio-geochemistry of the Indian Ocean. “Sarma had explained for the first time how the deposition of atmospheric pollutants influences coastal primary production and ocean acidification. His studies focus on the estuarine and coastal ecosystem to understand the extent of human interferences, how modifications in river discharge influence the nursery grounds of the coastal fisheries and ecosystem as a whole,” he said. Jagadeesan Laganthan has been selected for CSIR Young Scientist Award in earth, atmosphere, ocean and planetary science for 2020 in recognition of his contributions to the plankton ecology in the context of the marine ecosystem in the eastern Bay of Bengal, Gulf of Mannar and in the mudbank phenomenon along the southwest coast of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/national-awards-for-vizag-scientists/articleshow/77248445.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Delhi||Doctors’ salaries: Delhi high court gives govt 15 days to grant Rs 8 crore to north corporation||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Wednesday gave 15 days to the AAP government to release funds to North Delhi Municipal Corporation as grant in aid to enable it to pay stipends of resident doctors in six of its hospitals. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan asked the state government to release Rs 8 crore in 15 days and made it clear to the civic body that the amount was meant solely for the purpose of paying the stipends or emoluments of the resident doctors. The bench, while noting the plight of the doctors who didn’t get regular salaries but stipends or emoluments, ordered the municipal corporation to wrap up all paperwork in relation to Rs 8 crore to be released by Delhi government, and warned that failure to complete the formalities would lead to action against the officials concerned. The high court further directed the North Delhi Municipal Corporation to place before the bench the utilisation certificates indicating that Rs 8 crore released by the government earlier on court orders were used to pay the resident doctors. However, it added that at this stage, the court would not go into the other issue of on payment of salaries of other employees. The court was hearing a PIL initiated suo moto based on the news reports that doctors of Kasturba Gandhi Hospital had threatened to resign as they were not paid salaries since March this year. According to the reports, the doctors of north corporation-run Hindu Rao Hospital had also complained to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the non-payment of salaries for March, April and May. In its status report filed in response to the plea, the civic body submitted that the salaries up to May of all the resident doctors had been paid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/docs-salaries-hc-gives-govt-15-days-to-grant-rs-8cr-to-n-corpn/articleshow/77250871.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||VMRDA speeds up work on master plan roads, Atchutapuram junction||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) is set to develop four master plan roads this year with an investment of around Rs 50 crore, apart from developing Atchutapuram junction with a Rs 15 crore outlay. The development authority has launched construction work on two master plan roads, including the one passing through the Visakha Valley School and another master plan road from Law College to Beach Road. The VMRDA has allocated Rs 47 crore for development of these master plan roads in its 2020-21 budget. The existing 20-feet road near Visakha Valley School is being extended to 60 feet. According to the VMRDA officials, the project has affected a part of the wall and classrooms of the Visakha Valley School, Food Crafts Institute, Kuchipudi Kalakshetram and other buildings along the road. The VMRDA would rebuild the damaged structures for these institutions at a cost of Rs 2.41 crore apart from spending Rs 5.93 crore on the road works. The 1.6-km-long road connects the National Highway and Vizag-Bheemili road. As the VMRDA needed some land from the forest department for the master plan roads, it had allocated alternative land to the forest department near Gudilova. A 4.38 km alternative 100-feet road to the Special Economic Zone (SEZ) in Atchutapuram is also part of the five roads. The VMRDA has decided to take up work on this road due to heavy congestion here on a daily basis. The SEZ, being home to several major industries, sees heavy trucks and regular traffic plying on all three sides – Anakapalli, Gajuwaka and Yelamanchili – with the SEZ being located on the fourth side. VMRDA metropolitan commissioner P Koteswara Rao said that works on the remaining master plan roads would be launched soon. “The VMRDA long ago released Rs 12 crore towards land acquisition and other purposes towards development of Atchutapuram junction. Once the land acquisition process is over, we would also initiate the junction development works. The alternative road towards the Atchutapuram SEZ would greatly help the employees working in the SEZ as well as general commuters as the vital connecting road will reduce traffic congestion at this busy junction,” said Koteswara Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vmrda-speeds-up-work-on-master-plan-roads-atchutapuram-junction/articleshow/77248472.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
July 30, 2020||Kanpur||NSA to be invoked against Bikru accused||Kanpur:Police will invoke provisions of the National Security Act (NSA) against the accused in the Bikru incident, which claimed the lives of eight policemen and left several others injured. “Six persons including gangster Vikas Dubey, his nephew Amar Dubey, maternal uncle Prem Prakash Pandey, his other aides Atul Dubey, Bauwa Dubey and Prabhat Mishra were killed in encounter with police. Besides, we have till date sent five other accused to jail. A total of 14 others are still absconding and non-bailable warrants has been issued against them. We are now in the process of moving papers to the district authorities for slapping NSA against the five arrested accused, also, the property of all the absconding aides of Vikas will be attached once the formality in this regard will be over,” said SSP Preetinder Singh. He added, “For illegal encroachment on land by the accused, police have decided to also book them under Gangster Act and seek the help of district revenue officials as several complaints have surfaced against them in this regard after the Bikru incident.” The SSP further said the police had also put up posters with the names and photographs of 14 aides of the gangster, they have been declared proclaimed absconders. The police have put up the posters at all major junctions in the city as well as in neighbouring Kanpur Dehat district. We have provided the contact number of the Police, the SSP added. “Not only the person who will help police in zeroing on the absconders will be rewarded, but his/her name will also be kept secret. There are total 14 absconders in the posters, put up at various crossings, tehsil office, railway stations and bus stations. We have also put a cross mark on the photos of the accused including gangster Vikas Dubey and his right hand Amar Dubey, who were killed in encounter,” the SSP told TOI. To recall, eight police personnel, including a Circle Officer Billhaur Devendra Kumar Mishra and three sub-inspectors, were shot dead while their five other colleagues, besides a civilian, injured in an encounter with gangster Vikas Dubey and his aides in Bikru village in Chaubeypur police area of the district on July 2 & 3 night. The incident took place in Bikru village when a police team headed by CO Billhaur went there to search for Dubey, wanted in a case of attempt to murder, the police said. Dubey, had over 60 cases registered against him, including a murder charge for the killing of Santosh Shukla, a former state (Uttar Pradesh) minister in the Rajnath Singh government, inside Shivli police station in 2001.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/nsa-to-be-invoked-against-bikru-accused/articleshow/77250869.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Sangli city reports 100 cases in a day for first time||Kolhapur: The lockdown in urban areas of Sangli district will come to an end on Thursday night but the Sangli-Miraj-Kupwad municipal corporation has recorded an alarming rise in the number of Covid-19 patients in the past five days. On Wednesday, Sangli for the first time recorded over 100 patients in a day. It has recorded 116 new Covid-19 patients. Official data shows that the pace of having new patients is much higher in the city as compared to the seven municipal councils and rural parts in the district. Sangli city has been recording gradual increase in the patients in the past five days. On July 24, it added 27 patients, while 57 new cases were found on July 25. The municipal corporation recorded 67 new cases on July 26, while their number on July 27 was 97. The municipal corporation had 554 total positive cases on July 24, while on July 28, the number was 962. During the same period rise in the number of patients in the areas of seven municipal councils and rural parts was comparatively lower. On July 24, the seven municipal councils together had 118 cases, while it rose by only 16 till July 28. During the same period, rural areas added 119 new cases. Till Wedensday night, seven municipal councils and rural areas have 134 and 802 cases, respectively. Official data shows that more than half of the patients in Sangli district are from urban pockets, which are under lockdown currently. Out of total 1,898 positive cases till Wednesday night, rural areas had 802 cases while remaining patients – 1,096 are from urban pockets. Meanwhile, the urban trend continues in neighboring Solapur district also. On Wednesday, Solapur added 38 new cases and four deaths. All the deceased were above 60 years old. Solapur city has 4,823 positive cases and 1,983 of them are active. Among the active patients, 880 are men and 636 are women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sangli-city-reports-100-cases-in-a-day-for-first-time/articleshow/77247132.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Vitamins, supplements vanish after rush for immunity boosters||KOLKATA: A sudden shortage of vitamins and zinc supplements have cropped up in Kolkata and its suburbs following a scramble to buy the drugs found to boost immune system. Pharmacies, that have procured Vitamins A, B complex with folic acid, C, D3 and zinc supplements even a week back, are left with zero stock. Some of the pharmacies that have managed to get hold of lesser known brands of these medicines and dietary supplements are catering to the growing demand. The demand, pharmacies feel, increased after several messages viral on social networking platforms claimed efficacy of these vitamins in boosting immunity and preventing body from Covid-19 attacks. “There is a shortage of some such medicines especially Vitamin C tablets. The demand for these medicines have spiked as people are using those as immunity boosters. In some mild-Covid 19 cases doctors are also prescribing that,” said Gautam Jatia, chief executive officer of Frank Ross Pharmacy. According to Jyotishka Pal, senior consultant at the RTIICS, Vitamin C helps in maintaining mucosal integrity. “In easier words Vitamin C, which is collagen based, helps to maintain health of nasal passages or oral cavity, which the virus wants to penetrate first. Vitamin D deficient patients have lesser chance of coming out of criticality or ventilation. But these medicines should be taken as per the doctor’s advice,” Pal said. “The shortage is from people trying to stock up medicines. We have started to ration sales of these medicines. There will not be a shortage if people stop indiscriminate buying,” said Manik Lal Das, district secretary (south Kolkata) of Bengal Chemists and Druggists Association. Animesh Talukdar, who works at the Dhanwantary store near the SSKM Hospital also felt that a shortage can be seen from panic buying of the medicine. “There’s panic buying and we are just not being able to cope with this,” he said. Subir Sen, district secretary (north Kolkata) of BCDA felt that pharmacists are now trying to meet the demand through lesser known brands. Consumers, who are buying these dietary supplements and medicines, don’t want to take any chance with the immunity boosters. “We know that vitamin C is good against cough, cold and infection but never thought of having them through supplementary medication,” said Anasuya Banerjee, resident of Harish Mukherjee Road. Mukesh Kochar, who has been treating Covid patients at Belle Vue Hospital has been prescribing such supplements to people as immunity boosters. “We do not know for sure whether we can ward off Covid contraction by having these medicines, but they will definitely help to fill up any vitamin deficiency that one may have,” he reasoned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vitamins-supplements-vanish-after-rush-for-immunity-boosters/articleshow/77249814.cms||Rohit Khanna
July 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Delay in malpractice hearings worries students||Aurangabad: The hearing on malpractice cases for HSC and SSC has been delayed considerably due to the Covid 19 pandemic, posing worries before the candidates concerned and their families as well. As per annual practice, the state board authorities complete almost all hearings on malpractice cases before the declaration of results. Aurangabad division of Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHE) had registered a total of 185 malpractice cases during the last SSC exam. Of these, hearing of only 70 cases is over and that for another 115 cases is still pending. While total 394 malpractice cases were reported for last HSC exam, exact number of pending cases could not be ascertained. MSBSHE Aurangabad division secretary Sugata Punne on Wednesday admitted that hearing on malpractice cases for HSC and SSC exams was affected due to Covid-19. “The hearing process of malpractice cases could not be completed due to travel restrictions in place since end of March. As a way out, we had arranged district-level hearings instead of summoning candidate to headquarters at Aurangabad. The decentralization helped to some extent, but several hearings are still pending,” she said. An official panel constituted by MSBSHE holds hearing of malpractice cases by summoning the accused students. After recording the version of students, the panel disposes the cases by merit. The punishment includes cancellation of performance in a particular subject or debarring students from one or multiple exams depending upon the nature of unethical practice. Educational activist Sunil Rathod said that the state board should use video calling facility, among other possible technological tools, to expedite the process of malpractice hearings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/delay-in-malpractice-hearings-worries-students/articleshow/77251446.cms||Prasad Joshi
July 30, 2020||Nashik||Police intensify bandobast in Sinnar to curb Covid spread||Nashik: The rural police, in view of the rising cases of coronavirus in the Sinnar taluka, have increased presence of its personnel to ensure that people do not come out of the containment zones which could lead to further spread of the contagion.There are a total of 526 active cases of Covid-19 in Sinnar with the maximum falling in the Sinnar town area.Sahebrao Patil, senior PI of Sinnar police station, said that the entire Sinnar town has been turned into a containment zone due to the rising cases of coronavirus.“On this backdrop, additional bandobast has been called apart from the current police force. We also carried out route march in the town area appealing to the people to not come out of their homes,” he said.The population of Sinnar town is around 80,000 and nearly 60,000 people are living in the containment zone. “Though some industries are also coming under the containment zone, the concerned industrialist have been sensitized to ensure that all the employees wear masks and maintain distance while working,” Patil said.A health official said that things were under control in Sinnar during the lockdown. “The rise in cases have begun since the lockdown was lifted,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-intensify-bandobast-in-sinnar-to-curb-covid-spread/articleshow/77247187.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 30, 2020||Kolhapur||186 new cases reported across Satara||Kolhapur: A total of 186 new cases were reported across Satara district between Tuesday and Wednesday with majority of them being reported from Satara and Karad tehsils, taking the total number of cases to 3,524. According to a health official, four deaths were also reported in the district. “Daduskarwadi in Jawli reported 16 cases in a day, including nine women and a two-year-old child. Satara tehsil reported 17 new cases while Karad tehsil added 40 patients,” he said. “Patan tehsil got 14 new patients, including five from Ambrag and three from Mhavshi, while Wai tehsil got 24 new cases. Wathar Kiroli village in Koregaon continues to get new cases and on Wednesday seven patients here tested positive for the contagion. As many as 20 cases each were reported in Phaltan and Khandala tehsils,” he added. According to the official, those who died on Wednesday belonged to Duduskarwadi, Nagthane, Kurwali and Nawsari. “Three of them were above 60 years, while the fourth patient was 59-year-old. Satara district currently has 1,537 active patients and has so far reported 123 deaths,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/186-new-cases-reported-across-satara/articleshow/77247149.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Ramesh Chennithala questions CM’s consultancy stand||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan is defending consultancy appointment on Sabarimala airport using strange and baseless defences like how he has been defending in other cases, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has said. Countering a question by the opposition leader on why a consultancy was appointed even before the land had come to the custody of the government, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had said if we wait till the government gets custody of the land, the project would get delayed further. The opposition leader said in reality, it is not the project as the chief minister claims, but the government’s move to give consultancy contracts and thereby make financial gains out of it would get delayed if the government waits until the land comes to its custody. Chennithala also said the chief minister should also make it clear about the work done by the consultant appointed in the project in the last three years. The government had appointed Louis Berger Consulting Private Limited as the consultant for the project. Chennithala alleged that the consultant could not complete any of the work entrusted to it, including techno-economic study, environmental-impact study and the in-principal approval from the Centre. The special officer for Sabarimala airport too has reported that the agency that took the consultancy contract for Rs 4.6 crore has not been able to do any of these assigned tasks, Chennithala said. The opposition is only asking what has the consultancy done after getting Rs 4.6 crore. He said the chief minister, who is alleging that the opposition is opposing the project, should remember that the project was originally mooted by the UDF government. He said the people also know who had opposed the Kochi and Kannur airport projects and who tried to topple the Vizhinjam container terminal project, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/chennithala-reply-to-cm-on-sabarimala-airport/articleshow/77248499.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Civic body to audit pvt hospital bills||Kolhapur: The civic body will be auditing bills issued to Covid-19 patients by the private hospitals. The decision was taken after corporators alleged that private hospitals were not adhering to the rates fixed by the state government for treatment. Also, the corporators claimed that patients are being charged for PPE kits used by the health staff. Satyajit Kadam, Tararani Aghadi corporator, said the private hospitals are charging Rs 10,000 per day from patients with a lot of hidden charges. “Five to six patients are checked by the staff using one PPE kit. However, each patient is charged separately upto Rs 3,000 to Rs 4,000 for the PPE kits used by the staff of the hospital,” he said. The corporators have also cited the nexus between the hospitals and the ambulance service providers. The charges of ambulance service are collected separately and most importantly before the actual treatment begins claimed a corporator. Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti said, “We have brought 27 private hospitals on board to treat covid-19 patients. I have also released the rates to be charged by the private hospitals. I have got some complaints of overcharging by means of hidden charges and the patients are refusing to pay. Anyone who has been overcharged can contact us. We will initiate the audit of the bills and the hospital functioning.” Kalshetti said that the chief auditor of the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation will carry out the audit. The private hospitals may lose their license if the irregularities alleged by the patients or others are found to be true. Corporators have appealed to the civic authorities to spread awareness about the difference in symptoms of the Covid-19, flu and dengue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/civic-body-to-audit-pvt-hospital-bills/articleshow/77247202.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 25 ID health workers test positive for Covid-19||KOLKATA: At least 25 healthcare workers, including the nursing students attached with ID Hospital, Beliaghata, have tested positive for Covid-19. The hospital officials said majority of them are asymptomatic and they are on home isolation. A few of them got admitted to the hospital and their conditions were stated to be stable. Sources in the hospital said the healthcare workers, who have tested positive for the virus in the past few days, include nurses, pathologists, pharmacists and group D employees. None of them were reportedly not involved in the treatment of Covid patients. The nodal hospital for Covid-19 in the state has been treating corona patients since the first case had been reported in the state. Though healthcare workers’ getting infected with Covid-19 in various hospitals has become common, this is for the first time that so many healthcare workers tested positive in ID Hospital. The hospital currently has more than 100 patients undergoing treatment in its Covid ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/25-id-health-workers-test-covve/articleshow/77249889.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Man kills father for humiliating him||KOLHAPUR: The Solapur police have arrested a man for allegedly killing his father using sharp weapons. The police said the man was upset with his father for constantly humiliating him and doubting his character. Aakash Kale (20), a resident of Shiral village in Madha tehsil, stabbed his father, Sanjay, several times and later set the body ablaze in a farm. Aakash was helped by two others, who have also been arrested. All three have been remanded in police custody for six days. The partially-burnt body was found in a pick-up van on Sunday morning after the family lodged a missing complaint. Tembhurni police inspector Rajendrakumar Kendre said the deceased was in bakery business and also used to do private money lending. He had serious dispute with two other arrested suspects, Allauddin Mulani (33) and Laxman Raghunath Bandpatte (27), over financial transactions. Preliminary investigation has revealed that Aakash, who recently got married, had a strained relationship with his father. He took the help of these two people to kill his father. Police said Aakash gave Rs 7,000 to Bandpatte and promised them more money after the murder. According to the police, the trio stabbed Aakash’s father when he was sleeping in the front yard of their house on Saturday night. They covered his body in a blanket, put it in the pick-up-van and took the vehicle to an adjoining village. The trio later set the vehicle on fire by using diesel from the same vehicle. The family in its complaint had stated that the deceased was missing with his pick-up van since Saturday evening. During questioning, the police found discrepancies in the statements given by Aakash and his mother. Police initially detained Aakash, who later confessed to the murder, and was arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/man-kills-father-for-humiliating-him/articleshow/77247184.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Nashik||Nashik divn’s 93.7% pass rate is 16% more than last year||Nashik: The Nashik division’s pass percentage in the secondary school certificate (SSC) examination stood at 93.7 this year — almost 16% more from last year’s 77.6. At the state level, Nashik division ranked seventh. Meanwhile, the Nashik district topped the chart at the division level with a pass percentage of 94.9. Dhule district came in second in the division with 94.5%, followed by Jalgaon (93.5%) and Nandurbar (88.1%). Nitin Upasani, the divisional secretary of Maharashtra State Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board, Nashik division, attributed the rise in the pass percentage to the hard work put in by the students. “Students have worked hard across the Nashik division. Apart from this, the internal 20 marks examination for different subjects also helped in improving the pass percentage,” Upasani said. Overall, 1,97,976 students from across the division had appeared for the exam, including 89,078 students from the Nashik district. Of them, 1,85,557 students cracked the exam, including 84,558 from the Nashik district. Among the 89,078 students who appeared from Nashik district, 32,660 (37%) passed with distinction. As many as 31,933 (36 %) got first class, 16,623 (18 %) got second class, and 3,342 (4%) were in the pass class. Board officials said this year, disciplinary action has been taken against 118 students for cheating/copying as against 225 such cases last year. This shows that students’ inclination towards exam malpractices dropped considerably this year. The highest number of such exam malpractices were found in Nandurbar (40) followed by Jalgaon (38), Nashik (27) and Dhule (13).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-divns-93-7-pass-rate-is-16-more-than-last-year/articleshow/77251451.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 30, 2020||Nashik||Civil hosp’s psychiatry dept counsels over 6K people||Nashik: The psychiatry department of the Nashik civil hospital has counselled over 6,000 people ever since the Covid-19 outbreak. Initially, the counselling was being provided to migrant workers living in shelter homes as they were worried and wanted to get back to their home towns. Later, the team of doctors from the psychiatry department started making calls to the quarantined people all over the district. “A total of 1,861 migrant workers were counselled and treatment was provided to around 17 psychiatric patients. Other than this, 203 patients in quarantine and 355 in isolation were also counselled by our team of doctors. Counselling was also given to around 5,000 people over the phone,” Nilesh Jejurkar, head of the psychiatry department, said. “We used to get the names and numbers of the people who were quarantined in the district. Earlier, there were people who were afraid of the disease initially not knowing much about the virus, then came a phase where people were getting worried over what effects would the infection cast on their bodies followed by the phase of depression over health, money, job and business,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civil-hosps-psychiatry-dept-counsels-over-6k-people/articleshow/77247214.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 30, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Relief for fitness buffs as gyms to resume operations from August 5||KOLKATA: Souvick Basu, a 34-year-old techie, can’t wait to hit the gym ever since he got a Whatsapp notification from his fitness club on Wednesday that it will be open from next week. “For me, this is the moment when it seems that the lockdown has got some relaxation finally. I had worked to build up myself from a skinny man and develop a muscular shape. Months of staying away from the gym and working from home throughout the day had been taking a toll on my mental and physical health. If we have to live with the virus, better live healthy and stay fit, instead of hiding at home. I am extremely excited to get back to my workout days again,” said Basu, a resident of Behala. Thousands of fitness enthusiasts like Basu heaved a sigh of relief in the wake of the late evening order of the ministry of home affairs, which allowed yoga and gymnasiums to open from August 5, albeit with a fresh standard operating procedure (SOP) that will be issued by the ministry of family and health welfare for ensuring social distancing in due course of time. “It has been a terrible experience in the last few months. Training oneself at home is something unthinkable. The absence of a trainer can’t be substituted with anything else. My fitness and health has been compromised a lot and I am just looking forward to the day I can hit the gym again,” said school teacher Priyanka Chakraborty. Gym operators in Kolkata, too, had a very tough time over the last few months with many personal trainers and gym staff reeling under layoffs and pending salaries and gym owners running into debt for electricity and space rents. Over the last few months, several gym trainers and body builders have even come out on the road, protesting and asking for reopening of gyms. Some trainers, who had switched over to online training sessions, said that although the entire fraternity is happy with the reopening, they are still a bit worried of maintaining social distancing. “Since the order came out, my members have called me. Some expressed joy and some were concerned about the safety measures at the gymnasiums. It is indeed a great news as our livelihood depends on the gym. But all of us will have to be careful while working out from now on,” said Rupam Chakraborty, a floor manager of a premium gym in south Kolkata. Gym owners said they are already drawing up plans for safety measures before gyms reopen from next week. “We have already sanitised our entire 4,500 sq feet gym last week and will opt for a complete sanitization once a month. Every member will have to undergo a thermal check and use sanitizers. Moreover, the members will be divided into different slots, each of which will comprise 10 or 12 persons, for social distancing,” said Tuhin Bhattacharya, partner-director of Core Gym.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/relief-for-fitness-buffs-as-gyms-to-resume-ops-from-august-5/articleshow/77249907.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
July 30, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Medical waste piles up as Covid-19 cases climb||VISAKHAPATNAM: The rise in Covid-19 cases in Visakhapatnam has also led to a rise in the amount of biomedical waste produced in the district every day. A dedicated group has been entrusted the responsibility of collecting this waste from Covid-19 centres and shifting it to a biomedical treatment plant at Atchutapuram. According to a senior health official, PPE kits, masks and gloves as well as other things used to treat Covid-19 patients can be used only once and have to be discarded. This has led to an increase in production of biomedical waste. “Further, we are also treating food packets used by patients and health officials at Covid-19 centres as bio-waste. At the moment, the 33 Covid-19 centres in the district are producing no less than 400kg biomedical waste per day,” he said. Those who collect and dispose this waste first pack it in double-layered covers. Then, the packets are disinfected and put in a container. The container is then shifted to the treatment plant where it is treated at 800°C. The health official further said, “While staffers take all necessary precautions while carrying the waste, the vehicles that carry the waste are being sanitized regularly.” Environmentalists in Visakhapatnam say that the government must be very careful about disposing of biomedical waste at this time. “Anything that can possibly infect people has to be taken to the treatment plant. Otherwise, it can have an impact on locals,” said Ravi Kanth Reddy, a Visakhapatnam-based environmentalist. Health department officials said that a mechanism has been worked out to collect biomedical waste, label it and then transfer for disposal following safety protocols. Speaking to TOI, district medical and health officer S Tirupathi Rao said, “All safety protocols are being followed in disposing of biomedical waste from Covid-19 centres.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/medical-waste-piles-up-as-cases-climb/articleshow/77248531.cms||Arpit Basu
July 30, 2020||Nashik||Negative growth in active cases in Nashik on 5 recent occasions||Nashik: The Nashik district has registered a triple-digit negative growth in active Covid-19 patients on three occasions during the past fortnight, the data provided by the district administration suggested. In all, there have been five occasions when the entire district registered fewer active patients than the previous day.“As the number of patients increases, the number of discharges also goes up. Now we are also witnessing a fall in the number of active patients,” said Nashik collector Suraj Mandhare. On July 15, there were 2,144 active patients in the district. The number then rose to 2,701, before dropping to 2,604. It rose again to 2,835, and then fell to 2,414. The fluctuation in the number of active patients is not new, but currently, there have been three-digit reductions in the number of active patients, a senior official from the district administration noted.The numbers decreased by 309 patients on July 28; by 165 on July 26; and by 99 on July 22. On other occasions, the numbers decreased by 58 and 50. The district currently has 2,463 active patients. Of them, 1,549 are in the Nashik city and 823 are in Nashik rural areas. Malegaon has 89 active cases and there are two ‘out of district’ patients too.Since the antigen tests started, there has been a spike in the number of cases. The tests revealed that many patients were asymptomatic and, therefore, a large number of patients were also discharged as per the treatment protocol.“The best part of antigen testing in rural and urban areas is that it has probably arrested the growth of the patients – at least for some time – which otherwise would have been unchecked,” the officer said adding that a lot still has to be achieved still.The biggest drop in number of active cases in Nashik rural has been 124, while in Nashik city it has been 169. It may also be noted that the recovery rate of Nashik rural is 72.1 %, Nashik corporation is 78.4 % and Malegaon is 86.5%. The district overall has a recovery rate of 77.7 %.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/negative-growth-in-active-cases-in-nashik-on-5-recent-occasions/articleshow/77247225.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 30, 2020||Nashik||DPC givesRs 19.6cr for fight against Covid||Nashik: The district planning committee (Nashik) has given Rs 19.6 crore to the health department for buying essential medicines and equipment to effectively fight Covid-19. The state government has come up with a resolution asking the district planning committees to provide 25 per cent of the funds received and the funds to be received under the district annual plan for the year 2020-21 towards the cause of fighting Covid-19. “Treatment for the infection is a costly affair especially in case of those suffering from the infection and falling in the category of moderately severe or severely ill patients. Besides, the administration also has to create facilities to quarantine and isolate patients with mild or no symptoms. This is the reason the state government has directed the district planning committees to divert their funds to the local health department that will enable them to fight against the pandemic,” district collector Suraj Mandhare said. “The Nashik DPC, headed by district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal, has allotted Rs 19.6 crore funds for the cause,” Mandhare said. As per central government guidelines Rs 1 crore from the Member of Parliament Local Area Development Fund has also been made available for the fight against Covid-19. Similarly, the state government has also asked the MLA funds to be used for the same purpose and accordingly the MLAs have so far contributed Rs 5.1 crore for the fight against Covid-19. Besides, as per the orders from the planning department of the state government, Rs 10.3 crore were also diverted for the cause from the district annual plan for the year 2019-20. “Collectively, the DPC has so far forwarded Rs 36.1 crore to help the local health departments buy medicines and equipment for dealing with the contagion in an effective manner,” a DPC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dpc-givesrs-19-6cr-for-fight-against-covid/articleshow/77247235.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Varanasi||Gorakhnath temple soil to be used in Bhoomi Poojan||GORAKHPUR: The Vishwa Hindu Parishad took the soil from Gorakhnath temple on Wednesday for being used in the Bhoomi Poojan of Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5. Gorakhnath temple is a revered holy shrine of the Nath monastic order. Mahant Avaidyanath of Gorakhnath Math, who was four-time MP from Gorakhpur and was guru of CM Yogi Adityanath, played a leading role in Ram Janambhoomi movement and founded the Shri Ramjanmabhoomi Mukti Yagna Samiti, a committee to liberate Lord Ram’s birthplace, in 1984. Sah Prant Sanyojak of VHP’s Mahanagar unit Durgesh Tripathi said the soil from Gorakhnath temple will be put in the foundation of the Ram temple in Ayodhya during Bhoomi Pujan on August 5. Tripathi, VHP secretary Amarjeet and Mahanagar secretary Mukund Shukla led a delegation to Gorakhnath temple and took soil from the temple administration and offered prayers at the temple. All those present were wearing face shields. Soil and water from other holy shrines in Gorakhpur will also be sent to Ayodhya. Mahanagar convener Ashok Gupta has been entrusted the responsibility of appealing people to hold Bhajan Keertan on August 3 and 4 and light diyas at home on August 5. Meanwhile, MLA from Haraiya constituency in Basti, Ajay Singh wrote a letter to CM Yogi requesting to invite three families for Bhoomi Poojan. “Satyavan Singh and Ramchandar Yadav of the area were martyred during Kar Seva in Ayodhya in 1990, while Jaishraj was injured and is still alive. I have requested that an invitation be sent to the families,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gorakhnath-temple-soil-to-be-used-in-bhoomi-poojan/articleshow/77250894.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot to help UK beach goers keep social distance||RAJKOT: Of all places where revellers can be accused of throwing every caution to the wind, the worst of examples are easily the chock-a-block beaches across the globe. Along with the world, that is gasping from the onslaught of the coronavirus pandemic, authorities at the Bournemouth, Christchurch and Poole (BCP), a town that nurtures UK’s best beaches in south coast, too found the task of enforcing social distancing among beach surfers overwhelming. This was accentuated when more than two lakh visitors turned up on one day after lockdown eased. The panic-stricken BCP Council, however, found succour when a Rajkot IT firm helped local authorities at the resort town with a mobile application that guides beach goers to maintain social distance. Unveiled last week, the app will help revellers check beach’s congestion levels before they hit the sand. “This social distancing app is in response to last month’s chaos which can be avoided in future,” said Chintan Panara, promoter of the firm that has office in the UK and Netherlands. After working in Britain for a decade, IT expert Panara had founded the firm with ex-Indian Army officer Arun Kar and Pradip Butani in 2014. “BCP Beach Check app has a live traffic light system using the latest technology to help visitors and residents avoid busy hotspots. The simple-to-use app is free to download,” he said. The app helps users check a particular beach or see a map indicating the busier areas (marked as red), less busy beaches (marked as amber) and those with plenty of available space (marked as green). The app allows visitors to make informed choices as to which parts of the beach to visit and which to avoid in order to maintain social distance during the pandemic.“More than technology, it is the impact that we make on lives across the globe that matters the most,” said Panara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rajkot-to-help-uk-beach-goers-keep-social-distance/articleshow/77247247.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
July 30, 2020||Nagpur||Ordnance factories threaten to go on strike||Nagpur/Bengaluru: Two days after meeting the secretary of defence production, the unions in ordnance factories have decided to issue a strike notice to the government on August 4. The strike to protest the government’s proposal to corporatize the ordnance factory board (OFB) will be indefinite and may start from October 12. The unions will be waiting till July 31 to receive a communication from the government following their concerns. If they fail to get receive any communication, the unions will communicate the date of strike notice to the government. “August 4, the day when unions plan to issue the notice, also coincides with the date when the tenders for selection of consultants for the corporatization process will be opened,” stated a joint press release issued by the three unions operating in ordnance factories. The release stated it was clear from the initial remark of the secretary that the government will be going ahead with the plans to corporatize OFB. If the unions go on a strike, it would be for the second time that an indefinite strike will be held in 41 ordnance factories. A strike was held on the same grounds in August last year after which a high level committee was formed to discuss the corporatization issue. Production at the factories has already taken a hit due to Covid lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ordnance-factories-threaten-to-go-on-strike/articleshow/77262509.cms||Shishir Arya
July 30, 2020||Goa||Navy to test fire weapons on August 7||Panaji: The Indian Navy will carry out firing drills of the coastal defence weapons on August 7 and has warned shipping and fishing vessels to stay clear of the area. The Navy will test fire the 105mm light field gun and the 40/60 anti-aircraft guns between 9am and 1pm on August 7 from Mormugao, the navy said in a statement. “The danger zone lies within an area bounded by 220 to 260 degrees from Mormugao Headland Flag Staff position, up to a distance of 15 nautical miles into the sea and up to height of 7,100m,” the navy said. To ensure public safety, the Navy said, all shipping vessels, harbour craft, fishing and other vessels have been requested to keep clear of the Naval Coastal Battery and the danger zone during the period of firing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/navy-to-test-fire-weapons-on-august-7/articleshow/77250921.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Amaravati||‘No public interest in Amaravati farmers’ PIL’||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh Secretariat Association (APSA) has moved the high court with an implead petition seeking to make it a party in the matter of capital shifting. The association has alleged in the petition that there is no public interest in the PIL filed by the Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti other than the interests of some persons and real estate businesses. K Venkatrami Reddy, president of APSA, contended that the PIL moved by the farmers is based on the meeting of the employees’ association. He said the high court was misinformed about the facts of the meeting by the petitioners. “When there is no dispute over shifting of executive capital to Visakhapatnam among the employees, the question of luring by chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy with sops to convince employees does not arise” he said. Reddy said in his petition that the cost of shifting would not be more than Rs 70 crore as against the alleged financial burden of Rs 5,116 crore. Moreover there was no undue favour as alleged, he stated in the petition. The allegations with regards to house sites also is untenable as the previous government promised them house sites in Amaravati and it is a general practice to allot house sites to employees to develop capital, he said. The petition also stated that as the buildings in Amaravati are temporary in nature, there will not be any loss to public money. As the soil in Amaravati is not suitable for construction, there would be considerable amount of savings if permanent constructions are avoided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/no-public-interest-in-amaravati-farmers-pil/articleshow/77255119.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Vijayawada||‘No public interest in Amaravati farmers’ PIL’||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh Secretariat Association (APSA) has moved the high court with an implead petition seeking to make it a party in the matter of capital shifting. The association has alleged in the petition that there is no public interest in the PIL filed by the Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti other than the interests of some persons and real estate businesses. K Venkatrami Reddy, president of APSA, contended that the PIL moved by the farmers is based on the meeting of the employees’ association. He said the high court was misinformed about the facts of the meeting by the petitioners. “When there is no dispute over shifting of executive capital to Visakhapatnam among the employees, the question of luring by chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy with sops to convince employees does not arise” he said. Reddy said in his petition that the cost of shifting would not be more than Rs 70 crore as against the alleged financial burden of Rs 5,116 crore. Moreover there was no undue favour as alleged, he stated in the petition. The allegations with regards to house sites also is untenable as the previous government promised them house sites in Amaravati and it is a general practice to allot house sites to employees to develop capital, he said. The petition also stated that as the buildings in Amaravati are temporary in nature, there will not be any loss to public money. As the soil in Amaravati is not suitable for construction, there would be considerable amount of savings if permanent constructions are avoided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/no-public-interest-in-amaravati-farmers-pil/articleshow/77248558.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Bengaluru||CET: DyCM allays students’ fears||Bengaluru: Deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan on Wednesday said CET students need not be afraid of coming out to take the exam beginning Thursday, as all safety protocols will be followed. At least 40 students who tested positive will sit for the exam, but the DyCM could not give the number of students from containment zones who will take the exam. “We will arrange transport for students who inform the department,” Narayan, who holds the higher education portfolio, said. He said students awaiting Covid-19 test results can write the exam at their original exam centres. He said invigilators in centres hosting positive students will wear PPE and follow SOP. Covid-infected students will be served food at centres. When told students are finding it difficult to access the helpline, the minister said: “This is a credible system that has been running for several years now. Everybody has been doing a good job so far.” He went on to say, “A high level committee has been formed and every minute detail planned. District administrations have arranged transport for positive students.” Asked about lodging for students from other states, he said: “There are many hotels that are not used as Covid Care Centres. Anyway, the number of such students is very small.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cet-dycm-allays-students-fears/articleshow/77248574.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Revised pattern hands record passing % for Marathwada||Aurangabad: Despite improved, record passing percentage of 92%, Aurangabad division of Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHE) has figured at the bottom in the SSC examination, the results of which were published online on Wednesday. Latur division from Marathwada is on the second last position with record passing percentage of 93.09% which is also slightly below the average success rate of 95.03% of the state. MSBSHE Aurangabad division chairperson Sugata Punne said that her division and the region as a whole has registered better performance in SSC exams in the recent past even if it is getting placed at the bottom among all the nine divisions. “There is no drastic difference in passing percentage of Aurangabad division as compared to other divisions or the state as a whole. We congratulate successful students and wish good luck for those who failed,” she said. Principal of Sharad Mandir school Savita Mulay said that the passing percentage as well as scoring percentage of students has increased in SSC exams. “The last SSC exam was based on the revised pattern and students adapted to the changes well. The revised pattern saw more application of knowledge during exams which students could do well. Also, the newly introduced 20 internal marks for language subjects made difference in overall results with many students grabbing those marks with full hands,” she said. As per official data, SSC result of Aurangabad is at its best since 2014. Last year, the division had recorded passing percentage of 75.20%. Over 1.85 lakh students had appeared for SSC exams from Aurangabad division, of which, more than 1.70 lakh cleared it successfully. As many as 52,777 students have scored above 75% mark whereas another 61,181 passed with first class by securing 60% and above. Over 1.08 lakh SSC candidates had appeared from Latur division, of which, more than one lakh passed. The number of students securing over 75% and 60% marks from Latur division is 35,797 and 33060, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/revised-pattern-hands-record-passing-for-marathwada/articleshow/77251457.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Kolkata||For stakeholders in Bengal, new education policy a mixed bag||KOLKATA: The National Education Policy 2020 and its provisions have elicited mixed reactions from educationists, faculty members, teachers’ associations and senior officials in Bengal. While some praised the mobility and uniformity, which the new policy will bring in, others criticized its “over-centralization of the country’s education system”. Academics pointed out that under the new policy announced on Wednesday, the Class-X board examinations were being replaced with a US-styled education system, where school years were divided into foundational stage, preparatory stage, middle stage and the secondary stage. Instead of an exit examination in Class X, so far, the first public exam for students, they would now have to appear for their first board exams in Class XII, they said. Students may also choose to exit the programme in Class X and re-enter in Class XI later. West Bengal Government Teachers’ Association general secretary Saugata Basu said in the final four years from Class IX to XII, there would be eight semesters, meaning evaluation would have to be conducted after every semester. “This will require a massive overhaul of the current infrastructure,” Basu said, adding that the state would have to form a liaison in implementing the NPE 2020. A school principal pointed out that multiple suggestions that stakeholders made in the draft policy found no reflection in the policy changes. For higher education, Sabyasachi Basu Ray Chaudhury, vice-chancellor of Rabindra Bharati University, said, “In the undergraduate courses, the three-year system has been replaced with a four-year course. Students will be offered a certificate at the end of the first year, a diploma after completing the second year and a degree at the end of the fourth-year programme. Thereafter, they can choose to pursue post-graduation for a year. The concept of MPhil has been done away with and candidates can directly take admissions for research. There are multiple entries and exits allowing more mobility to students.” He added that the NEP 2020 provisions had paved the way for centralizing the entire higher education system. “In absence of a common syllabus, doing away with the UGC model curriculum, where universities were given the free hand to alter 20% of the syllabus and include diversion, depending on the regional requirements, have been erased. Rather, all universities will have a common syllabus without which such mobility can’t be allowed in the education system,” he said. The principal of a college affiliated to Calcutta University said the NEP 2020 would spell a doom for state universities. “The academic autonomy is now indirectly curtailed.” she said. The RBU vice-chancellor, however, said one of the reasons to feel optimistic about the policy and its provision was that within 2035, the Gross Enrolment Ratio would have to go up to 50%, which was encouraging. Sankhayan Choudhury, general secretary of Calcutta University Teachers’ Association, criticized the move. “Segregation of universities into teaching and research institutions goes against the very idea of a university, where research and teaching have to go hand in hand,” he said. JUTA general secretary Partha Pratim Ray felt NEP 2020 “had set back education in India by at least a century”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/for-stakeholders-in-bengal-new-education-policy-a-mixed-bag/articleshow/77249919.cms||Somdatta Basu
July 30, 2020||Nashik||Nashik farm worker’s blood saves life of a five-year-old in Kerala hospital||NASHIK: A 22-year-old farm worker from the Yeola taluka of Nashik district has donated blood to save the life of a five-year-old child undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Kochi, Kerala. Both share the same very rare blood group — ‘P null’ phenotype. The farm worker was contacted by the city-based Arpan blood bank, which was first alerted by Mumbai's National Institute of Immuno Haematology (NIIH) — the premier research institute of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). According to officials, the 5-year-old had met with an accident and needed surgery and blood transfusion. The doctors in Kochi got four blood samples from people who share the same blood group, but their technical parameters failed to match. Then the doctors sounded an alert with the NIIH. Dr Swati Kulkarni, of the NIIH, got in touch with Arpan and shared the details of the blood group and the data of the possible donor from Yeola. In the past, the farm worker had undergone some tests when the information regarding his rare blood group was registered with the NIIH. Dr N K Tated, chairman of Arpan, said: “We received a communication from the NIIH about the requirement of blood from a donor in Yeola on July 17.” “Our team first went to the donor and counselled him. Since there was a lockdown, he was unable to travel and our team had to go and meet him to collect the sample for cross-matching with the recipient's blood,” Tated said. The recipient's sample was flown in from Kochi as well to carry out the tests. “Since the samples of both the Kochi patient and the Yeola donor fulfilled all the conditions, blood was drawn from the donor and couriered to Kochi through an air parcel,” Dr Shashikant Patil, MD, DNB in blood transfusion medicine, of the blood bank, said. On July 26, they were informed by the hospital in Kerala that the surgery was performed and the recipient was recuperating. “The donor is a farm worker. Initially there were apprehensions about donating the blood in our mind. But the doctors clarified all our doubts,” said a relative of the donor. Besides the regular blood groups, there are 40 other rare and very rare blood groups. It is difficult to find donors for these rare blood groups. Generally, the data on such rare blood groups is maintained by local blood banks and even the NIIH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/yeola-farm-workers-blood-saves-life-of-a-5-year-old-in-kerala-hospital/articleshow/77247256.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 30, 2020||Vijayawada||SRM students will find place of choice in reputed cos: VC||VIJAYAWADA: Prof Vajja Sambasiva Rao, vice-chancellor of SRM University, Andhra Pradesh, said the university is focusing on research to advance scientific and technical development. He said besides emphasis on research, international collaborations and knowledge sharing programmes with Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), the University of California, Berkeley, Illinois Institute of Technology and other prestigious institutions have helped students find better jobs through campus placements. Prof Vajja Samabasiva Rao, who took charge as vice-chancellor of SRM University Andhra Pradesh, has worked for more than four decades in BITS Pilani. He said the AP campus faculty are widely engaged in research. “Since its inception in 2017, the university has published 190 research papers in reputed journals with 45 highest impact factor. The number of funded projects at present in the university is 24 with an outlay of Rs 13 crore. The total number of patents filed and published by the university is 13, of which one is a student patent. Presently, we have 17 academic research collaborations with top-ranked Indian and international universities and laboratories,” Rao asserted. He said the university has plans for setting up schools for law and management. He said medicine and allied health sciences will be introduced by 2028. “In the next three to five years, we also have plans to establish the centres of excellences – centre for additive manufacturing, centre for cloud computing, centre for the internet of things (IoTs), centre for 5G technologies.” “Campus recruitment drive has already started in the university as our first batch of students enter the final year of the course,” Rao said. “Our students are already being placed in top companies with the highest pay package of Rs 17 lakhs so far. I am confident that our engineers will find their place of choice in reputed software and hardware companies, aerospace, automotive, robotic, CAD, control and instrumentation companies in both India and abroad,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/srm-students-will-find-place-of-choice-in-reputed-cos-vc/articleshow/77248582.cms||Venu Lanka
July 30, 2020||Patna||Floods hit 10 lakh more in north Bihar||PATNA: The flood situation remained grim in north Bihar as nearly 10 lakh more people were affected on Wednesday. According to disaster management department, the population affected by the floods surged from 29.62 lakh as on Tuesday to 38.47 lakh by Wednesday evening. Water resources department was on alert owing to few rivers in north Bihar maintaining a rising trend. Water resources department minister Sanjay Kumar Jha told TOI that Burhi Gandak and Bagmati rivers were showing rising trend. “We are keeping strict vigil on the water level in Burhi Gandak and Bagmati. Remaining other rivers, including Gandak, are showing either falling or static trend,” he said. As per daily flood bulletin issued by water resources department, the Bagmati was flowing above corresponding danger level at six flood gauges in Sitamarhi, Muzaffarpur and Darbhanga districts. The Burhi Gandak was also flowing above the danger level at four flood gauges in Muzaffarpur, Samastipur and Khagaria districts. Kamla Balan was also above the red level at two places in Madhubani district. Darbhanga was facing floodwaters of Khiroi river which was flowing above the danger level at both the flood gauges in the district on Wednesday. Weathermen have issued forecast for heavy rain at one or two places in north Bihar, but the intensity of showers is likely to get reduced for a few days. “Heavy rainfall is likely at one or two places in terai region owing to moisture incursion from the Bay of Bengal,” an official at Patna Meteorological Centre said. Few places in south Bihar are also likely to get rainfall owing to the position of monsoon trough line over Jharkhand. “Monsoon was active in Bihar over the last 24 hours, leading to light to moderate showers at most places along with heavy rainfall at a few places in north Bihar. The monsoon trough line was passing through Daltonganj in Jharkhand to Nagaland. It is likely to cause light to moderate intensity of thundershowers in south Bihar,” the official said. The reduced intensity of showers has also allowed the water resources department to expedite the works on restoration of the damaged embankments on Gandak river. “Restoration of the embankments on Gandak breached at a few places is underway after reduction in its current,” Jha said. With regard to flood rescue and relief works, the daily bulletin issued by disaster management department on Wednesday stated that 3.09 lakh out of total 38.57 lakh people affected by the floods have been evacuated to safer places. Total 25,116 people were staying in the relief camps and 5.71 lakh people were getting food at 989 community kitchen centres. Altogether 26 teams of NDRF and SDRF were involved in flood rescue and relief operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/floods-hit-10-lakh-more-in-n-bihar/articleshow/77249917.cms||Piyush Tripathi
July 30, 2020||Patna||Covid cases in Bihar cross 45,000-mark, Patna sees a dip||PATNA: Covid-19 cases crossed the 45,000 mark on Wednesday with fresh 2,328 people testing positive for the virus. Four deaths were also reported by the health department on Wednesday, taking the toll to 273. With 45,919 registered cases and 30,504 recoveries so far, the active cases stand at 15,140 in Bihar. The state also registered the highest number of tests conducted by testing 17,794 samples in 24 hours. Even though Patna registered 377 new cases on Wednesday, taking the tally to 7,818, the district is witnessing a fall in the number of cases compared to the past five days. On Tuesday, 411 cases were reported from Patna and a day before on Monday it reported 437 cases. Patna had reported 620 cases on previous Sunday and 544 cases on Saturday. As per the health department, two deaths were reported from Gaya, taking the district’s toll to 19 and one death each from Araria and West Champaran, taking their respective toll to 5 and 10. The Nalanda Medical College and Hospital reported four deaths, including two Patna residents. A 19-year-old boy from Khajekalan area of Patna City locality, who was diabetic and died eight days after his admission. And a 45-year-old woman from Ashok Rajpath, near Khuda Baksha library, who died due to cardiac arrest. “The third deceased was a 55-year-old man from Rohtas district. He had a medical history of diabetes, hypertension and TB. The fourth deceased was a 36-year-old man from Saraya in Vaishali. He too was diabetic and died on Tuesday,” said NMCH epidemiologist-cum-nodal in charge (reporting cell) Dr Mukul Kumar Singh. Three deaths were also reported at AIIMS-Patna on Wednesday, including a 50-year-old Krishna Nagar resident, a 55-year-old man from Birla Colony in Phulwarisharif and a 75-year-old woman from Dalmiya Nagar in Rohtas. Other districts which reported a large number of Covid-19 cases are Bhojpur (161), Rohtas (124), Saran (120), Aurangabad (109), East Champaran (76) and Gaya (72). The health department further stated that 1,284 people have recovered in the past 24 hours, taking the total recoveries to 30,504 and recovery rate to 66.43%. State health minister Mangal Pandey, meanwhile, visited AIIMS-Patna, which is the fourth dedicated Covid-19 hospital in the state, and met patients there. He also held a meeting with the hospital administration. Pandey later said so far over five lakh people have been tested for coronavirus. “Today maximum 17,794 tests have been done,” he tweeted after his visit to the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-cases-cross-45k-mark-patna-sees-a-dip/articleshow/77249977.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Class XI admission:More intake capacity for Arts than Commerce||Aurangabad: A total of 115 junior colleges within the municipal limits of Aurangabad, which are part of the centralized admission process for Class XI, have combined intake capacity of around 31,145 seats. As per official data, arts stream has 8,615 seats which is higher than 5,625 seats available for commerce stream. On the other hand, science stream continues to have the highest share with total 14,440 seats declared in registered colleges. The vocational courses have the lowest 2,465 seats. Authorities associated with the Centralized Admission Process (CAP) on Wednesday said that the stream-wise intake capacity of seats in junior colleges was in keeping with the demands of students. “Colleges declare their intake capacity at the start of every academic year. We expect no skewed ratio in declared intake for different stream and number of taker students,” a senior CAP official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/class-xi-admissionmore-intake-capacity-for-arts-than-commerce/articleshow/77251460.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Bengaluru||B’luru deaths near 1k with 900% spike in July; tally crosses 50k||Bengaluru: The city’s Covid-19 toll neared the 1,000-mark on Wednesday and the number of cases crossed 50,000, once again showing that Bengaluru accounts for the bulk of Karnataka’s coronavirus burden. The same milestones were breached by the state only 13 days ago. On Wednesday, the state capital added 30 deaths and 2,270 cases to take the fatalities and tally to 987 and 51,091, respectively. As on May 31, a total of 10 people had died of Covid in Bengaluru, an increase from five as of April 26. The number of deaths jumped to 95 by June-end, and the city started to show signs of panic with the authorities scrambling to create infrastructure. In July, the number of fatalities increased by more than 900% at a rate of around 31 per day, with multiple days seeing over 50 deaths. While the toll touched exactly 100 on July 2, the city has added nearly 900 deaths since then. BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad told TOI: “While we’re working on reducing the time taken for any patient to reach hospital after developing symptoms, we find that in many cases people are reluctant to go initially. Efforts are on to reduce the turnaround period of tests and make more beds available. Cases are bound to increase; we are trying to reduce the number of deaths.” This appears to be in line with the advice of experts on the government’s task force. Dr CN Manjunath, member of the task force, said: “We must now look at bringing even patients with moderate conditions to hospital. In many cases, we’ve found that patients get medical intervention after their condition has reached the critical stage, which may be too late. The practice must change.” Data analysis shows the city had 4,555 cases as on June 30, a significant increase from 357 as on May 31. However, the June spike pales in comparison with July, which has seen Bengaluru cross multiple milestones. When the month began, the number was under 5,000. But it took under six days to touch 10,000, while in the next eight days, the tally doubled to 20,969 (July 14). It took 10 days for cases to double again — the number stood at 41,467 as on July 24. In only five days since then, the city has added 10,000 cases to breach the 50,000-mark. “We have enhanced our testing capacity significantly. From testing under 5,000 samples per day in July, it’s now 10,000 on average. On some days in the past week, we’ve even tested 12,000 or more samples,” added Prasad. He said various special committees set up by the government are aggressively pushing both government and private hospitals to make more oxygenated or ICU beds available. “This is something we are doing seriously. While we’ve already managed to enhance the overall number of beds, we will focus more on beds with oxygen in future,” said Prasad. ------||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bluru-deaths-near-1k-with-900-spike-in-july-tally-crosses-50k/articleshow/77248665.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Nashik||Civic body to provide counselling for people feeling depressed||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has joined hands with Nashik Psychiatric Society and city-based educational institute to provide counselling to people who are feeling depressed or nervous due to the Covid-19 outbreak.The civic body aims to created awareness among such people to make them positive and mentally strong. The NMC has also introduced a helpline numbers — number 96075-32233 or 96077-35132 — where people can call for free counselling.“Everyone is restless and panicking due to the pandemic and its effects on the economy. Most of them are worried about themselves and their families. At this juncture, there is a need to counsel such people to relieve their stress and make them mentally fresh,” an NMC official said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civic-body-to-provide-counselling-for-people-feeling-depressed/articleshow/77247267.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 30, 2020||Surat||8 Varachha (B) clusters ‘freed’, 2L people relieved||Surat: In what comes as major relief to 49,877 houses and 2.17 lakh people, Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Wednesday removed eight cluster containments in Varachha (B) zone in the city. Meanwhile, 22 micro containment zones were declared in Katargam zone, having 1,413 houses and 6,723 people. According to SMC officials, the freed areas in Varachha (B) include Mota Varachha Fire station to Sudama Chowk, Platinum point to Yamuna Chowk Road, Rukshmani society, Kevat Nagar society, Balmukund Society (Part and and two), Gurukrupa society, Surya Vandna society, Shreenathji society, Sarita Darshan, Sarita Sangam, Surya Kiran, Sneh Milan, Sneh Smruti Bungalows, Nirmalnagar, Hari Kunj, Gangotri, Surbhi, Western View, Golden City, Sarita Sagar, Suman Avash and Ishwar Krupa, Bhagavati Krupa, Guru Krupa in Puna area. In Sarthana area, Anand Park, Anmol Park (part one and two), Nilkanth Heights, Shantivan Society, Setu Residency, Ashirwad Row House, Kavita Row House (Part two) and Sanksar villa Row House have been freed from cluster zone. In Nana Varachha area, Momai Nagar to Rukshmani Nagar (B ward), Momai Nagar, Dharmistha Park, Tapi Darshan Society, Girnar Society, Patel Park society and Silver Chowk to Ashadeep Vidhyalay area have been removed from containment zone. SMC officials also said that Covid-19 is spreading rapidly in Rander and Athwa zones in the last few days. Athwa zone now has a total of 16 clusters including 2,984 houses and 12,784 people under home quarantine. In Rander zone, a total of 44 clusters have 2,580 houses and 10,285 people are under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/8-varachha-b-clusters-freed-2l-people-relieved/articleshow/77247279.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Unregistered practitioners not to treat Covid-19 patients in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Against the backdrop of rising Covid-19 cases and deaths, the Punjab government has banned unregistered healthcare practitioners from treating Covid-19 patients at their level or face strict action. The government decided to crack the whip on unregistered healthcare practitioners after it came to fore that people, especially in rural areas, were initially going to unregistered private medical practitioners for Covid-19 treatment instead of hospitals, leading to delay in early detection and prompt management of patients. There has been a steep rise in the number of people succumbing to the deadly virus. As many as 336 people have fallen prey to the virus of which 187 deaths were reported from July 1-28. Medical practitioners told to inform civil surgeon of casesLate reporting to hospitals along with co-morbidities are said to be key reasons for the spike in the number of deaths. There have been 20 cases in which patients died within 24 hours of hospitalization while about 39 people died within a couple of days after getting admitted to health facilities. According to sources in the health department, the government acted after coming to know of a few cases where patients first approached unregistered private medical practitioners and went to hospitals when their condition worsened, giving doctors little time to treat and save their lives. Taking serious note of this, Punjab additional chief secretary health Anurag Agarwal on Tuesday issued instructions to all the deputy commissioners to direct all unregistered private medical practitioners not to treat Covid-19 patients and to inform civil surgeons of suspected/positive cases immediately and advise them to visit nearest government health facility for proper treatment. DCs have also been directed to conduct a meeting with all unregistered medical practitioners to ensure strict compliance. Agarwal said a message has been conveyed to unregistered medical practitioners and anyone found violating the direction will be dealt with strictly. "Strict monitoring will be done at district level," he said. Over the years with little checks in place, medical practitioners without any recognised degrees have flourished. The Punjab Chapter of Indian Medical Association in the past had raised the issue, but in vain. The government has also failed to keep a check on quacks despite directions from Punjab and Haryana high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/unregistered-practitioners-not-to-treat-covid-19-patients-in-punjab/articleshow/77252010.cms||Vinod Kumar
July 30, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat’s Covid-19 situation has improved drastically: CM||Rajkot: Chief minister Vijay Rupani claimed on Wednesday that the state has improved in terms of Covid-19 cases and was now on the 12th place in the last few days from the earlier second spot.Rupani along with deputy CM Nitin Patel and chief secretary Nitin Patel visited Rajkot to take stock of the Covid-19 situation in the city and district.Talking to reporters, the CM also claimed that the situation in Gujarat is even better than Kerala in terms of daily Covid-19 cases registered. “Those appreciating the Kerala model in containing the virus have been silenced now. Around 50,000 fresh cases are emerging every day in India. As on Tuesday, against 1,108 new cases in Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh's tally was 7,948, followed by 7,717 cases in Maharashtra, 6,972 in Tamil Nadu and 5,536 in Karnataka,” he said.The mortality rate has also gone down from 7% to 4% while the recovery rate has touched 74% in the state, Rupani said, adding that the situation in Ahmedabad and Surat is also in control now.Regarding ramping up testing, he said, “We are now testing 22,000 people per day in Gujarat. WHO guidelines state that 140 people per million should be tested, but we will test more people than this,” he added.Rupani also defended the Dhaman ventilator being made by Rajkot-based company saying that nearly 350 machines are functioning in good condition. On Tuesday, 49 new cases were reported from Rajkot city and 30 from villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gujarats-covid-19-situation-has-improved-drastically-cm/articleshow/77247299.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Pune||Internal marks, oral exam boost scores||PUNE: The race to lock in a seat at a first year junior college (FYJC), industrial training institute (ITI) or in diploma courses may turn a tad bit more challenging in Pune this year thanks to soaring pass percentages and a burgeoning list of students reaping high scores. The Pune division recorded a pass percentage of 97.34, over 14% higher than last year (82.48). The division includes Solapur, Pune and Ahmednagar districts. Teresa David, former principal of Laxmanrao Apte Prashala, predicted that the cut-off for FYJC seats at major colleges will go through the roof. “We are still going through the data but I am certain that the first cut-off mark will be really high for FYJC, especially at renowned colleges. Not just in Science, I am sure there will be a big rise in Arts and Commerce courses too,” said David. Prakash Sayagaonkar, principal of ITI, Aundh, said that although the cut-off marks in some trades will rise, it may not be a significant change due to the possibility of fewer admissions, especially in the 30% out-of-district quota. “Some stream trades, such as motor mechanic, electrician, machinist, among others, are in high demand. We are certain there will be an increase in cut-off marks for these streams this year because the overall results are good. Even the number of 90% achievers has increased,” said Sayagaonkar. Jyoti Masand, principal of Jai Hind College in Pimpri, predicted a 5% increase in the cut off percentage at the institute. “Our school has registered 100% result. While there are choices of colleges available in Pune city, when it comes to Pimpri and Chinchwad, there are fewer colleges hence we are predicting at least 5% increase over last year in the cut-off marks in the first merit list,” said Masand. At Jai Hind junior college, the cut-off for Science and Commerce streams was about 91% and 88%, respectively. Tanzeela Memon, principal of SM Choksey High School and Junior College, urged students, who have scored less marks, not to panic. “There are enough seats available at most junior colleges in the city. If they choose sensibly, students will be able to secure admission in the first three choices,” said Memon. Tribal schools finish big17 of 22 government-run tribal schools in Integrated Tribal Development Project (ITDP) Ghodegaon, Pune, scored 100% pass percentage. The residential tribal schools are spread across four districts of Pune, Solapur, Sangli and Satara. Project officer RB Pandhure said, “The results have been very good this year for our schools.” The tribal schools cater to students from Std I to X, after which they apply to junior colleges or other institutes in cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/internal-marks-oral-exam-boost-scores/articleshow/77249983.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur division ranks second in state in SSC exam||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur division reported a 11.06% jump in the pass percentage in the SSC compared to last year to find a place at the second spot in the state. At 97.64% pass score, the three districts in the division has reported a higher than the state average of 95.30%. Kolhapur division ranked second in the state after Konkan division, which reported 98.77% result. This year too, girls have scored better than the boys in the division, though marginally. Around 98.58% of the girls passed the SSC exam as against 96.83% of the boys. The exam was held at 354 centres in three districts under division-Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur. There are over 2,291 schools in the divisions. Around 1,255 schools, which are around 54% of the total schools, have scored 100% result. This is the highest-ever number of schools scoring 100% result. Just one school reported less than 10% result. S M Awari, divisional secretary of the board, said, “This year, the students have come with the best scored compared to the past few years. The pass percentage of both (boys and girls) has increased this time. The students can access the marksheets from the schools. Those having doubts about the results or the marks can apply online for re-checking.” Around 1.33 lakh students from three districts of the division had appeared for the exams. Also, 6,785 students out of 8,998, who repeated the exam, have passed. As compared to last year, the copying cases had declined this year. Last year, 90 such cases were reported whereas just 45 copying cases were reported this year. The board has cancelled the exam registration of these 43 students for their involvement in copying.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-division-ranks-second-in-state-in-ssc-exam/articleshow/77251485.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Surat||Cured with plasma therapy, bizman pledges donation||Surat: After beating coronavirus through plasma therapy, Vinod Zanjmera, a resident of Dhanmora in Katargam, pledged to donate his plasma for other patients. Zanjmera had tested positive for Covid-19 on July 15 and was admitted to New Civil Hospital (NCH) in Surat. “Zanjmera had breathing problems when he was admitted at NCH. So, we administered him with Remdesivir injection. He had low oxygen levels in his blood. So, he was given his first dose of convalescent plasma (200 ml) on July 17. The doctors gave a second plasma transfusion two days later which stabilised his condition,” said NCH official. “Since plasma therapy helped me beat Covid-19, I have decided to donate plasma after 28 days to help other patients,” Zanjmera said. According to sources, 86 people after recovering from Covid-19 have donated plasma at NCH, while 109 have donated plasma at SMIMER Hospital till Wednesday. A total of 326 Covid-19 patients have been given plasma therapy in Surat city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cured-with-plasma-therapy-bizman-pledges-donation/articleshow/77247350.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Nashik||570 new cases, 509 discharges in dist||Nashik: The district has recorded 570 new Covid-19 patients, including 381 from Nashik city, in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 13,227. Twelve deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours. The death toll in the district stands at 484, including 267 deaths in Nashik city. Of the 12 deaths, 11 were from Nashik city. The district has 2,463 active cases. Meanwhile, the Nashik district recorded the highest number of patient discharges on Wednesday — 509. As many as 348 of them in Nashik city. The number of patients cured and discharged so far also went up to 10,280. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/570-new-cases-509-discharges-in-dist/articleshow/77247329.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Pune||No student failed in social studies, 19 other subjects||PUNE: The geography paper on March 23 that the pandemic quelled was marked based on average scores and internal marks. As a result, social studies which constitutes history and geography, recorded a 100% pass percentage in the state. No student failed in this subject. There are 19 other such subjects which have recorded a 100% pass percentage. Chairman of the state board Shakuntala Kale said, “The paper II of social studies (geography) was finally cancelled on May 14. We calculated the average marks of other subjects the student shad appeared for and the internal exams. As a result, all students passed in this exam.” As many as 16.22 lakh students in the state passed this exam. Principal of New English School, Ramanbaug, Tilotama Reddy, said, “In our school, students have been generally doing well in geography. This year too, they have done well and all have passed in the subject.” Pramod Gade, with 30 years in teaching, said passing in social studies is easy now. “With 20 marks internals, one just needs 15 more marks to pass. History used to be hard for some students because of the old dates and names of dynasties. The difficulty level in questions for this subject has come down. Within the question paper, there are some questions like match the following which makes it easier for them to pass. This time, with no exam held for geography, average marks were considered, which means all students would have easily passed in the subject.” Sushma Pardeshi, a retired geography teacher, said it is a good sign that 100% pass percentage has been recorded in social studies. “If there are ever any failures, those are in history, but very few in geography. This year was exceptional,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-student-failed-in-social-studies-19-other-subjects/articleshow/77250007.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Business||Dr Reddy’s Q1 net down 13%; Covid-19 didn’t hit biz much||Hyderabad: Dr Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd on Wednesday said it has posted a nearly 13% fall in consolidated profit after tax for the first quarter ended June 30, 2020, at Rs 579.3 crore as against Rs 663 crore in the corresponding quarter of financial year 2019-20. This was despite 15% jump in consolidated revenues for the first quarter of financial year 2020-21 at Rs 4417.5 crore, up from Rs 3843.5 crore in Q1FY20. Talking about Covid-19, the company said its operations have continued without much impact, its sales volume were impacted in some markets due to lower prescriptions generated and fall in patient footfalls in pharmacies / clinics due to Covid-19. However, a relatively stable pricing environment, continued new products launches and depreciation of the Rupee against the US Dollar and Euro supported the business, company officials said. The company said while revenues from global generics rose 6% driven primarily by Europe and Emerging Markets, the Indian market saw a 10% fall in revenues from Rs 696 crore in Q1FY20 to Rs 626 crore in Q1FY21. While North America generics business grew 6% to Rs 1728 crore during Q1FY21 from Rs 1632 crore in Q1FY20, Europe revenues jumped 48% to Rs 355 crore from Rs 240 crore and emerging markets recorded 9% revenue growth at Rs 798 crore from Rs 730 crore in Q1FY20. The Pharmaceutical Services and Active Ingredients (PSAI) business registered a healthy 88% rise in revenues for the quarter at Rs 855 crore as against Rs 454 crore in Q1FY20, while revenues from the Proprietary Products & others business witnessed a 40% fall at Rs 54.7 crore for Q1FY21 from Rs 91.4 crore in Q1FY20. Dr Reddy’s co-chairman & MD, G V Prasad said the company was able to ensure continuity of business operations despite the challenging times and had begun the integration of the business it acquired from Wockhardt. He also said the company also entered into two important licencing arrangements for treatment options for Covid-19 during the quarter and is working towards launching both these drugs to multiple markets. While Dr Reddy’s entered into an agreement with Gilead of US for Remdesivir, it inked a pact with Fujifilm of Japan for Favipiravir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/dr-reddys-q1-net-down-13-covid-19-didnt-hit-biz-much/articleshow/77250015.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Nashik||Girls continue to outshine boys in SSC exam||Nashik: This year too, girls continued to outshine boys in the SSC board exams with 96.43% girls passing the board exams as against 93.61% boys in the district. A total of 41,583 girls appeared for the exams from the district, of which, 40,098 cleared with passing percentage of 96.43. On the other hand, of the total 47,495 boys who appeared from the district, 44,460 cleared with passing percentage of 93.61. The trend was similar at the division level as well. Officials said that of the 88,860 girls who appeared for the exam at the divisional level, 84,838 cleared with passing percentage 95.47. In addition, of the 1,09,116 boys who appeared, 1,00,719 cleared with passing percentage of 92.30. Senior educationalists from the city termed this as a regular phenomenon during the SSC and HSC results. According to them, girls are always more studious than boys with less distraction level. “These things get reflected in the board exams,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/girls-continue-to-outshine-boys-in-ssc-exam/articleshow/77251495.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 30, 2020||Bengaluru||CET candidates on the edge as confusion prevails||Bengaluru: Thousands of students slated to write Karnataka Common Entrance Test (CET) 2020 beginning Thursday faced a stressful evening on Wednesday, largely due to non-academic reasons. They were busy tracking news from the high court, which was hearing PILs seeking a stay on the test since 3pm. By late evening, they got to know the court refused to interfere in the matter. Students have been alleging there has been no coordination by Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) on arranging transport facilities or addressing other problems. Shishir Hebbar, who is awaiting a Covid test report, said: “Both my grandparents were infected with Covid-19. I lost my grandpa this week; my grandma is critical. My father also tested positive and is in home isolation. I gave my swab for testing on Saturday and the results are yet to come. I have been trying to reach KEA on its landline but can’t get through. Without a Covid-positive certificate they will not allow me to write the test at another centre. Am I supposed to go to a regular centre?” An appeal from a Covid-positive student’s parent went viral on Twitter, after which a department official called him to inform him about his centre. “I registered my son as Covid-19 positive on the first day when KEA opened the link. Since then, there has been no update. What kind of planning is this? Finally, an official called on Wednesday afternoon, but all he told me was the centre. By late evening, we were informed of the transportation,” rued Srinivas Kamat, a parent from Yelahanka. Atulya Kumar Singh, a student of MES Kishore Kendra, said he will give CET a miss this year as he does not want to put his family at risk. “My dad is diabetic so I cannot take a chance...I would rather skip CET this year and try for other entrance tests,” he said. “On the final day, students should have been making revisions, but here we were watching news and praying...Exams themselves are stressful. This time, it is hell,” said Rohini V, a parent from Malleswaram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cet-candidates-on-the-edge-as-confusion-prevails/articleshow/77248727.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
July 30, 2020||Nashik||Govt procures 40.3L quintal of cotton||Nashik: The state government has procured 40.26 lakh quintal of cotton from 1.37 lakh farmers in the five districts of Nashik division under the Minimum Support Price (MSP). Of which, 8.84 lakh quintal of cotton were procured after the lockdown from 33,000 farmers, said an official from the office of joint registrar of co-operatives, Nashik division. The cotton was procured at the rate of Rs 5,500 per quintal. Cotton is one of the major cash crops in the Nashik division, which includes Nashik, Ahmednagar, Jalgaon, Dhule and Nandurbar. The state government had procured 66,000 quintal of cotton in Nashik district. Around 25.55 lakh quintal of cotton were procured from Jalgaon district, followed by 5.09 lakh quintal from Ahmednagar district, 4.50 lakh quintals from farmers in Dhule and 4.44 lakh quintal of cotton in Nandurbar district. The total area under cotton crop in Nashik division is around 9.65 lakh hectares. An average area under cotton in North Maharashtra is 8.5 lakh hectare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/govt-procures-40-3l-quintal-of-cotton/articleshow/77247361.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 30, 2020||Rajkot||Tuition teacher held for raping minor||Rajkot: A 25-year-old tuition teacher was held on Tuesday for raping a teenage student at her home in Rajkot twice in past three months.According to police, the accused tuition teacher Bhavya Karathiya liked the 16-year-old girl and used to pay special attention at her when the classes were on before the lockdown. He had once confessed to the girl that he likes her. Around three months ago, Karathiya visited the girl’s house when she was alone and allegedly raped her. Before leaving he threatened the girl. Police said that Karathiya again visited the girl on July 6. Since the girl’s younger sister was present, he sent her to another room by saying that they are going to solve a question paper. When the rape-survivor’s sister left, Karathiya allegedly raped the girl again. However, a short while later, the girl’s mother returned home and the accused went inside the bathroom.When the girl’s mother confronted him, he told her that he had come to help the girl to solve a question paper. The girl’s mother asked Kathariya to leave immediately and not to come again unless she permits. On hearing that Kathariya got furious and threatened the girl’s mother of dire consequences. The girl’s mother did not tell anyone due to Kathariya’s threats but on Tuesday she told one of her colleagues who encouraged her to approach police.The woman took her daughter to the University police station on Tuesday night where they lodged an offence of rape, criminal intimidation and violation of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.Cops said that the probe has been handed over to Mahila police station and Kathariya will be formally arrested once his coronavirus test reports arrive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/tuition-teacher-held-for-raping-minor/articleshow/77247347.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Nashik||5 visually impaired girls shine in SSC examinations||Nashik: Five girls from rural areas of Nashik district passed the SSC exam will flying colours, Maharashtra National Association For Blind officials said. According to Mukteshwar Munnshettiwar, joint secretary of the Mahanab’s Bhavana Chandak School for the Blind, Smruti Bairagi, a resident of Niphad, bagged 89.60% while Gautami Wagh, a resident of Sinnar, bagged 88.02% and Chandrakala Nimbekar of Jategaon scored 82.2%. He also said that Manisha Sadgir of Jategon bagged 79.8% while Maina Shinde Ghoti bagged 80.8%. Munshettiwar said that the NAB’s Maharashtra unit provides free lodging and boarding facilities for the visually impaired children at its school in NICE industrial estate, Satpur. “There are 65 students this year from Class I to Class X. We have inhouse school for children from Class I to Class IV after which they are sent to normal schools and their transportation is also borne by the school,” Munshettiwar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/5-visually-impaired-girls-shine-in-ssc-examinations/articleshow/77251504.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Pune||Wastepickers’ kids dream big, shoot for the stars||PUNE: They may not have the best opportunities but the children of wastepickers associated with Kagad Kach Patra Kashtakari Panchayat have overcome odds to dream big. Anchal Nade, who scored 82% in the SSC exam, said, “My mother is a wastepicker and my father passed away when I was just a year old. I have two elder sisters, who helped me study. We could not afford to pay for classes. I had to manage doing housework and study. I struggled with Science but my sister, who is a paramedic, helped me. I want to take up Science so I can go to a medical college and become a doctor.” Mahesh Magar, who scored 85% in the exam, said, “I used all my time to study. My father would wake me up at 5.30am to study before he went to work as a wastepicker. When I returned from school, I would read the textbooks again. We could not afford extra classes but our Maths teacher helped us out. Maths and Science were tough papers.” Mahesh is the first member of his family to clear SSC and his father was overwhelmed by the achievement. Yasmin Sayyed’s father is a wastepicker and her parents were jumping with joy when they found out that she scored 84%. “It’s all about time management. Languages, such s English and Marathi, were tough for me, but I managed to do well in them. I want to take up Science and become a dentist,” said the student of Anjali English School in Wadgaonsheri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wastepickers-kids-dream-big-shoot-for-the-stars/articleshow/77250013.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Chandigarh||No nomination to IAS for non-HCS officers selected to HCS: AG view||CHANDIGARH: Non-Haryana Civil Services (HCS) officers, eligible for selection into the IAS under non-state civil services quota, cannot be considered for selection for the coveted job if they are selected into the state civil services subsequently. According to the opinion given by the advocate general office (AG) office Haryana in response to a reference received from the state government, such applicants had become members of state civil services at the time of consideration, thus they cannot be sent for selection into IAS. The legal opinion was sought by the state government on receiving representations from applicants . ‘Eligibility has to be seen at consideration stage’Applicants Kapil Kumar, Rajesh Khoth, Vishal Gagandeep Singh and Rahul Mittal had submitted that as the date of eligibility for considering the names for appointment by selection to IAS was January 1, 2019, and they did not belong to state civil services on that date, therefore, they are entitled to be considered for appointment to IAS by way of selection. They had sought permission to sit in the examination which is to be held by HPSC for IAS posts from non-state civil services category. The applicants, however, were elevated to the state civil services as HCS officers in August 2019. While responding to the reference received from the state government, the AG office has observed that a perusal of the statute would show that only non-state civil service officers can be considered for sending a proposal to be committee. “As per the regulations, eligibility has to be seen at the stage of consideration only...It is well settled law also that occurrence of vacancy does not give any right to an employee to claim appointment. Taking into consideration the fact and the provisions of 1997 regulations, as the above mentioned officers are member of state civil service at the time of consideration by the state government for the purpose of sending proposal to the committee for selection on IAS, in my view, the above said officers are not eligible for consideration for recruitment by selection to IAS in terms of 1997 regulation. It may further be added that if the department desires, it can always seek clarification from the DOPT, government of India on the issue," observed D S Nalwa, additional advocate general, Haryana, in his opinion sent to the government on July 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-nomination-to-ias-for-non-hcs-officers-selected-to-hcs-ag-view/articleshow/77252035.cms||Ajay Sura
July 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Set up training institute for Matang community, demands BJP MLA||Aurangabad: Tushar Rathod, the BJP MLA from Mukhed, on Wednesday demanded that the chief minister establish the Annabhau Sathe Research and Training Institute for development of the Matang community, one of the backward communities in the state. He said this would help the people of the community in getting proper guidance and education. Rathod told TOI that he has written a letter to the chief minister drawing his attention to the pathetic condition of the Matang community was. He said the community lags behind in social, educational and financial spheres. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/set-up-training-institute-for-matang-community-demands-bjp-mla/articleshow/77247380.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Cop destroys evidence, booked||Aurangabad: A police inspector from Sillegaon in Gangapur taluka has been booked by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) for destroying evidence of him seeking bribe by deleting the voice data recorded on the recorder provided to the complainant by the agency. The police officer has been booked under various sections of theIPC. B V Gawade, deputy superintendent police (ACB), said the complainant owns a tempo that is used to transport goods in the Sillegaon area. “The police inspector had demanded a bribe of Rs 30,000 for not taking preventive action against the men who are employed by the complaint. Since he didn’t want to pay the bribe, he approached the ACB and lodged a complaint,” he said. “The complainant went to meet the police inspector on Tuesday evening and during the conversation about the bribe, the inspector got suspicious. He frisked the complainant and found the voice recorder on him. The officer forcefully grabbed the voice recorder and destroyed the memory card in it. Then, we booked the officer,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cop-destroys-evidence-booked/articleshow/77247395.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Rajkot||Harassed by husband and in-laws, woman ends life||Rajkot: A 24-year-old woman in Jamnagar district ended her life on Tuesday night due to harassment from her husband and in-laws.The woman Purnaba Jadeja’s father lodged an offence of abetment of suicide and under the Dowry Prohibition Act against her husband Shaktisinh, mother-in-law Rekhaba and sister-in-law Anitaba at the Lalpur Police Station.Police said that Purnaba, who lived in Arablus village, hanged herself from ceiling fan using a saree around 11 pm on Tuesday. Her father Jayubha Gohil told police that Shaktisinh used to harass her after their wedding on January 31 as she would refuse to cook non-vegetarian food for him. It was also alleged that Rekhaba and Anitaba used to jibe at her as she did not bring any dowry during the marriage. According to Gohil’s complaint, the duo used to ask her to end her life so that they could get Shaktisinh married again to another woman.As Purnaba was tired of the daily harassment, she took the extreme step, alleged Gohil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/harassed-by-husband-and-in-laws-woman-ends-life/articleshow/77247374.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Salem||Water released from Mettur dam dips to 7,000cusecs as rain lashes delta districts||Salem: Public works department (PWD) officials have reduced the volume of water being released from Mettur dam to 7,000 cubic feet per second (cusecs) from 10,000cusecs on Wednesday following continuous rain across the state. “We will maintain the water release at 7,000cusecs until further orders,” an official said. The current water level in the dam is 64.69ft. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had ordered the release of water from the dam for irrigation purposes in delta districts on June 12, when PWD officials released 2,000cusecs of water. The volume was increased to 10,000cusecs in the subsequent days and 15,000cusecs from July 2. The water discharge volume was, however, brought down to 13,000cusecs on July 11 following rain in the delta districts and then to 10,000cusecs in the subsequent days. The inflow to the dam has been on the rise for the past four days. “On Wednesday morning, the inflow was recorded at 6,563cusecs, compared to 6,000cusecs on Tuesday,” the official said. The inflow to the dam was between 257cusecs and 500cusecs till the third week of July. It started to increase gradually since July 24. Meanwhile, the inflow at Hogenakkal in Dharmapuri district was recorded at 8,500cusecs on Wednesday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/water-released-from-mettur-dam-dips-to-7000cusecs-as-rain-lashes-delta-districts/articleshow/77250032.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Goa||Draft development plans for Bambolim, Parra-Arpora open for public scrutiny||Panaji: The Town and Country Planning Board on Wednesday accepted the draft outline development plans (ODP) for Arpora-Nagoa-Parra planning area and the Bambolim planning area, TCP minister Chandrakant Kavlekar said. He added that the draft ODPs would be kept open for suggestions and objections for 60 days before being scrutinised once again and then approved. “ People have time to raise their issues,” Kavlekar said. “The Bambolim ODP and the new planning area for Arpora-Nagoa-Parra have been approved. The maximum area in the Bambolim ODP consists of land with Goa University,” said Kavlekar. The Greater Panaji Planning and Development Authority has three planning areas under its jurisdiction — Taleigao, Bambolim and Kadamba Plateau. Kavlekar said that the Kadamba Plateau planning area has not yet been discussed.  The TCP board also adopted a typographical correction in the draft outline plan for Calangute-Candolim planning area, wherein an area marked as commercial was shown as settlement zone. Aside from this, the board approved to increase floor area ratio (FAR) for seven Goa Housing Board projects that are being taken up under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, the central government’s affordable housing scheme. A committee constituted under Section 16A of the Act and headed by chief secretary Parimal Rai had recommended the project. The board also accepted 84 applications for change of zone under Section 12 of which 65 applications for change of zone pertain to plot sizes that are smaller than 1,000 sqm. “In 60 days the concerned departments such as TCP, agriculture department and forest department will conduct site surveys and submit their reports based on which we will take a decision,” the TCP minister said. He said that the department would not grant any approval for change of zone if the area falls in no-development zones, khazan lands, orchard lands or other eco-sensitive areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/draft-development-plans-for-bambolim-parra-arpora-open-for-public-scrutiny/articleshow/77251002.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Pune||Koregaon Park Blind School students pass board exams with flying colours||PUNE: The students of Koregaon Park Blind School have made their parents and teachers proud with their scores in the Secondary School Certificate examinations. Rohit Bhargune, who scored 93%, said he referred to the books before going for classes and after coming back to the hostel. “I thought I would score somewhere between 80-85%, but my family and I are happy with my result. Science and English were difficult for me, but I invested a lot of time and effort in these subjects,” he said, adding that he wanted to become a professional swimmer. Sairaje Shete, who scored 85%, pointed out the difficulty visually impaired students faced with science. “The writers who write the exam for us cannot work on diagrams properly. We cannot decipher it ourselves. It was easier for me to get marks in my favourite subjects such as political science and history. I want to become an IAS officer,” he said. Mohan Tipare, who also scored 85%, said, “The concepts are difficult to understand because of the diagrams in science and we have to work extra hard to overcome this challenge.” Prathamesh Bandal, who scored 82%, said, “I worked hard and took advice of elders and teachers. When I had trouble with any portion, I would reach out to my teachers. I want to take up commerce and someday become a board member of a big company.” Sohel Shaikh, who scored 83%, said he was thankful for his study circle. “We were a group of students who would study together. If one of us faced difficulty understanding a chapter, we would all help that person study and this way do our own revision. We also had great teachers,” he said, adding that he wanted to become a professional kabaddi player.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/koregaon-park-blind-school-students-pass-board-exams-with-flying-colours/articleshow/77250027.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Sons conduct last rites of mom||KARWAR: In a rare departure from norm, two sons performed the last rites for their mother, a Covid-19 fatality, beating the stigma attached to kin attending cremations and burials. Kamala Rayappa Naik, 74, a resident of KHB Colony in Karwar, was admitted to Karwar Institute of Medical Science (KIMS) with a complaint of pneumonia, but tests later confirmed she was positive for Covid. She was treated in the ICU, but developed breathing problems and despite efforts by doctors, her oxygen levels fell drastically on Tuesday night. She passed in the early hours on Wednesday. In a contrast to previous incidents, where relatives of Covid-related fatalities refused to participate in the last rites leaving local authorities to bury or cremate, Kamala’s sons Suresh and Shivanand Naik requested authorities to handover their mother’s body to them. The district administration agreed. The body was disinfected and wrapped in a PPE kit as per SOP. Then, watched by CMC members and Priyanga M, assistant commissioner, Karwar, the sons, attired in PPE provided by the administration, cremated the body. It is said Kamala had visited Kumta a few days ago to participate in the last rites of a relative there. It is believed she contracted the virus there. There have been many instances of family members refusing to participate in last rites of Covid fatalities in Karwar. Locals have also disrupted funerals, objecting to cremations and burials in the area, fearing they would contract the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-sons-conduct-last-rites-of-mom/articleshow/77248808.cms||---
July 30, 2020||India||India has just 3 percent share in 400 billion dollar space economy: Former Isro chief||MUMBAI: Former Isro chief AS Kiran Kumar said currently the world space economy was about 400 billion dollars, of which India’s share was a mere three per cent. "India’s share should increase between 10 and 15 per cent," he said while addressing a lockdown lecture of the Nehru Science Centre on Wednesday. Kumar, who headed Isro between January 2015 and January 2018, and who is still connected with it in an advisory capacity, said that for increasing India’s share in the world space economy the role of private players was very important. It is in this context that the decision of the government to give industries a major role in the Indian space arena was significant. "This will help India which has already developed several space capabilities and technologies to become a significant player in the global space economy," he told viewers. He said that there were at present nine Indian start ups that are taking India’s space industry to the next level and Isro has awarded some of them contracts for example in the area of propulsion. Some of these were Exceed Space, Dhruva Space and Bellatrix. Over the years Isro has transferred 350 technologies to 225 industries. "Space business was risky. But, if there is no risk there will no gain" he stated. For the human space flight programme, Gaganyaan, Isro has invited industries and the academia to participate. "The flight has been slightly delayed for a variety of reasons, but the work is on in full swing. It will be a continuos programme and will not stop with just one flight. The decision to have India’s own space station is a natural corollary to India’s human space flight project," he added. He admitted that Isro’s public outreach exercise was limited at the moment and he attributed this to monetary constraints and in the area of human resources. Coincidentally, for the first time two former ex Isro chiefs spoke to Mumbai science institutions on the same day: Kiran Kumar in the morning to the Nehru Science Centre, and K Radhakrishnan who headed the space agency between and November 2009 to December 2014, to the Tifr Alumni Association in the evening. Radhakrishnan said of the $366 billion global space economy commercial ground equipment and space-based services accounted for 70 per cent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-has-just-3-percent-share-in-400-billion-dollar-space-economy-former-isro-chief/articleshow/77252015.cms||Laxman
July 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Fever camps helping to curb spread of virus, say officials||Coimbatore: Of the 4,344 Covid-19 cases that were recorded in the district so far, 624 were detected at the fever camps and during the door-to-door surveillance by the city corporation.While it is just a fraction of the cases that were detected at the fever camps in Chennai and Madurai, health department officials say the fever camps are effective in detecting asymptomatic cases in the city and thereby curbing the silent spread of the virus.As per the data available with the health department, the civic body has screened 2.34 lakh people in June and July and conducted 1,856 fever camps. Officials say at least 4,523 people with flu-like symptoms were detected at these camps and 7,885 were made to undergo Covid-19 testing.“Of them, 624 tested positive for the virus,” said an official. Health department officials say the actual number of cases detected because of fever camps is much higher than the 624. G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, says, “They are only the symptomatic individuals who are found directly at the camps. But when we start tracing their close contacts at home and work and testing them, we find many symptomatic and asymptomatic patients, who otherwise wouldn’t have been traced.”He says they are successful in tracing two to three asymptomatic contacts for every symptomatic case that is detected at fever camps. “So, the number of cases found “because of” the camps would be twice or thrice the number that is detected “at the camps.”The government believes that fever camps play a vital role in controlling the surge in cases and bringing down numbers. For instance, the Greater Chennai Corporation, which launched fever camps on May 8, a few days after crossing 1,000 Covid-19 cases, screened 14.28 lakh people at 24,119 camps, tested 73,740 people and detected 14,748 cases. Madurai claims it has detected 6,681 Covid-19 cases through fever camps, but the number is likely to include the patients who are detected at the camps and their contacts. Madurai too has detected 4,000 people with flu-like symptoms at the camps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fever-camps-helping-to-curb-spread-of-virus-say-officials/articleshow/77250051.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Coimbatore||International Tiger Day observed||Udhagamandalam: The Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) in the Nilgiris, which boasts of 103 tigers, observed the International Tiger Day on Wednesday. A banyan sapling was planted at the Theppekadu elephant camp in MTR to mark the day. Fifty forest staff attached to MTR attended the event and also participated in a quiz programme on wildlife. The tiger population had increased by 10% between 2014 and 2018, MTR field director K K Kaushal said. “Buffer zone extending to 365 sqkm was declared in 2014 but came under the control of MTR only in 2018. Hence, tiger count comparison could not be done with regard to the whole of MTR.” Prizes were distributed to the winners in weapon training. The events motivated the foresters, deputy director of MTR core area Shenbagapriya said. The tiger reserve had completed pre-monsoon animal census a few weeks ago. Three tigers and cubs besides carnivores such as leopards were sighted during the census, Shenbagapriya added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/international-tiger-day-observed/articleshow/77250037.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Two youths killed in road accident||Coimbatore: Two motorcycle-borne youths were killed in a road accident on the Kangeyam Main Road near Bavani Nagar in Tirupur on Tuesday night. The deceased were identified as S Kareen, 19, a resident of Periya Thottam and K Karanraj, 19, of Kunnangal Kadu. The two-wheeler crashed into a vehicle deployed by the city corporation to repair street lamps around 11pm, police said. The duo was killed on the spot.The Tirupur south police sent the bodies to the Tirupur Government Hospital for postmortem. The deceased were under the influence of alcohol and rash driving led to the accident, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-youths-killed-in-road-accident/articleshow/77250038.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Keeping positive mindset in Covid-19 patients is challenge||Kolhapur: Patients undergoing treatment for Covid-19 and those who have recovered from the infection are struggling to keep their minds calm and a positive approach, which doctors said is a key aspect of the treatment. Patients are looking forward to playing games, sport and avenues for relishing lavish food to make them feel better. A few asymptomatic corona positive patients played football at a Covid care centre at Panhala tehsil of Kolhapur district and patients enjoyed liquor in Mangalwedha in the Solapur district. Police have registered cases in both instances, but it shows need for relaxation. A Covid-19 patient undergoing treatment at the Chhatrapati Pramila Raje hospital in Kolhapur for the last 10 days told TOI that it has been tough to keep the mind calm. “The thoughts of our family and loved ones keep coming in the mind. The others in the hospital undergoing treatment with you are not known to you. Not everyone can bond with each other within a few days and it is a challenge to keep the mind positive,” he said. The patient said that having a TV or some fun exercises or games keeping social distance can be a boon. “There are a few varkaris in my ward, who keep chanting ‘bhajjans’ in the evening and it creates a positive atmosphere. The patients without any symptoms are the ones getting bored and tend to break some social distancing rules,” he said. Another person, who recently got discharged from the CPR hospital, said that during the first four days of his hospitalization he did not interact with anyone as worries about his parents down with pneumonia kept coming to his mind. “Patients deal with the hospitalization differently. Some are occupied with their mobile phones or some crave for outside food. It is only when the wellbeing of the family is conveyed that the patients feel better,” he said. Counselling patients is playing a keep role in keeping them positive. Head of the psychiatry department at CPR hospitalP V Khot said, “The patient at the time of admission is tensed about the family’s wellbeing. The anxiety of loneliness is high and some sort of mental relaxation is must for these patients. We are giving in personal and telephonic counselling sessions to the positive patients,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/keeping-positive-mindset-in-covid-19-patients-is-challenge/articleshow/77226276.cms||Rahul Gayakwad
July 30, 2020||Rajkot||Two attacked in Morbi over past rift||Rajkot: Two persons were attacked and their houses were pelted with stones and glass bottles in Morbi on Tuesday evening over a past rift.The victim Abdul Vhatti and his friend Gul Mohammed were sitting at a junction near their home in Machhipith area when they were assaulted by six persons. The six accused have been identified as Shahrukh Khod, Hussain Khod, Aslam Khod, Iran Khod, Jusab Khod and Imran Khod. The duo was beaten up with pipe and wooden sticks.As they somehow managed to escape, both, Vhatti and Gul Mohammed hid in Vhatti’s house. The six accused, however, reached there as well and hurled abuses at them as well as threatened them to come out. When they did not come, the attackers pelted stones and glass bottles at Vhatti’s house damaging the windows. Somebody in the area later called police due to which the rioters fled from there. A video of attack was shot by an unidentified person on mobile phone which was widely circulated.Vhatti’s 80-year-old father Habib lodged an offence of rioting against the six accused. He told police that Vhatti and Shahrukh had heated arguments when the former was taking a walk near latter’s house some two days ago. When Shahrukh questioned Vhatti, he ignored him due to which Shahrukh hurled abuses at him which led to the verbal altercation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-attacked-in-morbi-over-past-rift/articleshow/77247407.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru betel leaf cultivation gets MGNREGS boost||Mysuru: Mysuru Vilyedele (betel leaves), also known as Mysuru Chigurele, has a unique GI tag and is known far and wide. However, it is facing a threat due to urbanization. In a bid to revive its cultivation and to encourage growers across the district, the horticulture department has decided to use the funds available under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). Sources in the department of horticulture told TOI that the Union Ministry of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Institutions had included papaya, drumsticks, coconut, rubber, banana, mango, guava and some local plantation crops including Mysuru chigurele under MGNREGS. Accordingly, the department has decided to encourage betel leaf growers by providing material, labour and other costs under the scheme across the district. Deputy director of horticulture Dr BT Rudresh told TOI that taluk-level officials have been told to raise awareness among farmers. In the previous years, the department had promoted the cultivation of Nanjangud Rasabale, Mysuru Betel leaves, Mysuru Jasmine under National Horticulture Mission, but hardly a few farmers evinced interest. Presently, betel leaves are cultivated only in about 900 acres in the districts. “The inclusion of Mysuru betel leaves under MGNREGA scheme not only helps increase the area of cultivation and help conserve it but also give a boost to farmers,” the official said. A maximum of Rs 2 lakh will be provided to a farmer to take up betel leaf cultivation on up to two acres under the scheme. However, the farmers must be job card holders under MGNREGA to get the benefit. If any farmer wants to cultivate betel leaves, they will get money for the labour component and material component under MGNREGA. The department will provide 400 saplings to farmers who show interest. Those having 10, 25, 50 or 100 cents of land can also benefit from the scheme. Farmer leader Kuruburu Shanthakumar appreciated the government for including betel leaves under this scheme which would help to revive nearly two -century old betel plantations. The famed crop which was once in the gardens of Wadiyars of Mysore to serve guests, had won accolades from people for its delectable rancidity and unique texture and flavour, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-betel-leaf-cultivation-gets-mgnregs-boost/articleshow/77248578.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur dam levels lower than last year||Kolhapur: The water levels in the dams across the region are much lower than the corresponding period last year. However, irrigation officials said there is no reason to worry yet as there is adequate stock still for drinking and agricultural purposes. Last year, most of the dams had filled up by this time. This year, there is comparatively lower water stock. While Warna had 716 million cubic metre (mcm) water last year, it now has 636 mcm. Similarly, Radhanagari, located upstream of the Panchaganga river, had 201 mcm last year and only 153 mcm now. Dudhganga dam is an exception. While it had 376 mcm water last year, it currently has 474 mcm. A major reason for comparatively lower water stocks is the long 10-day gap of rainfall in the region. Moreover, farmers growing paddy and other seasonal crops also have to depend on irrigation water because of this dry spell. The irrigation department has stopped the release of the water from the dams. It has decided to ensure stocks of not more than 50% in the dams by August 15 to ensure that there is no flooding in rivers downstream. Rohit Bandivdekar, executive engineer of irrigation department, said: “We are not worried at the moment since cumulatively, the stock is 66% of the total dam capacity. Also, we are expecting better rainfall in the remaining period of the monsoon. All weather agencies have predicted good rainfall in the first week of August, which will fill in the deficit in just four to five days.” Bandivdekar said there are no plans to curtail release. “We curtail water release only after October 15 if the stocks in the dams are not sufficient,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-dam-levels-lower-than-last-year/articleshow/77247232.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Mysuru||Health assistants to boycott work across Mysuru district||Mysuru: A delegation of junior health assistants working on contractual basis in the state health department submitted a memorandum to the deputy commissioner on Wednesday demanding better wages and regularisation of their jobs among others. In order to press for their demands, the health officials have also decided to boycott their work for a week across the district. Each junior health assistant recruited under the National Rural Health Mission was to to provide care to 10,000 people at a meagre wage of Rs 10,000 a month, they said. “We are working for meagre salary in difficult conditions to contain the Covid-19 at the containment zones. We want the government to provide us decent wages, job regularisation, to provide additional incentives on par with other health department staff and Covid-19 safety kits,” they added. The state wide indefinite agitation undertaken by the Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) under the aegis of All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC) entered 20th day on Wednesday, pressing for demands including Rs 12,000 honorarium. The protesters threatened to intensify their stir by launching a ‘jail bharo’ protest and civil disobedience movement if the government failed to look into their demands. As a precautionary measure, police personnel were deployed around DCs office as the protesters have threatened to picket the office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/health-assistants-to-boycott-work-across-mysuru-district/articleshow/77248152.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Hubballi||Sealing of vegetable markets leaves vendors in the lurch||Hubballi: The closure of vegetable markets in Navanagar, a burgeoning residential borough between Hubballi and Dharwad, by the Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) has irked both vendors and residents alike. Although the move may help arrest the upward spiral of Covid-19 in the twin cities, it has rendered scores of vendors who operate in these markets temporarily jobless. The vast open space at Ambedkar Bhavan serves as a perfect forum for farmers in neighbouring villages such as Amargol, Gamanagatti, Sutagatti, Sattur and Navalur to sell their produce directly to the customers, and HDMC’s decision to close the market place has dealt a serve blow to their fortunes. In addition to the farmers, several vendors eke out a livelihood plying fruits and vegetables purchased from the wholesale market, all of whom have been hit hard by the move. President of the Navanagar Tarakari Vyaparasthara Sangha (Navanagar Vegetable Vendors’ Association) HN Savantanavar said that each trader at the market was abiding by the safety norms prescribed by the HDMC. “But we’re being refused permission to sell vegetables here still. This is why most of the traders have taken to selling their stock at Panchakshari Nagar and Siddapajja temple. But we are being chased away there as well. All of us have obtained the necessary trade licence from HDMC,” Savatanavar told TOI. Vice-president of the association Sharavva Angadi questioned the arbitrary decision of the HDMC to seal the market in Navanagar. “Vegetable and fruit markets are operating across the twin cities. The officials say it is because of the number of Covid-19 cases here, but Vidyanagar in Hubballi reports the largest number of cases, but the weekly markets are being allowed there,” Sharavva said. Navanagar resident Prasanna Prabhuodeyaramath said that residents had now been robbed of a chance to get fresh vegetables at competitive prices. “As a result, we are forced to purchase vegetables at prices considerably higher. Why have markets in Hubballi-Dharwad not been shut although the cities are accounting for most Covid-19 cases?” he asked. HDMC commissioner Suresh Itnal said that a few areas in Navanagar had been sealed. “But the problems faced by the vendors and residents have been brought to my attention, and I will ensure they are resolved at the earliest,” Itnal said. Caption: Vegetable market at Amberkad Bhavan in Navanagar, Hubballi, is locked down by HDMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/sealing-of-vegetable-markets-leaves-vendors-in-the-lurch/articleshow/77250199.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
July 30, 2020||Mysuru||Renovation of 418 schools in Mysuru damaged in flood gathers pace||Mysuru: Government schools across Mysuru district that sustained severe damage during the flood last year being renovated, and will be restored and rebuilt at the earliest. The state government has allocated a sum of Rs 8 crore to the department of public instruction, Mysuru to this end. Among the 3,400 schools that were left damaged the flood left a trail of destruction across Mysuru last year, 418 have been selected now for renovation. The government sanctioned the funds following the submission of a report by the DPI. The report was drafted by engineers of the public works department (PWD), who assessed the extent of damage to the structures, and then submitted the same to the deputy commissioner. The school buildings were classified into various categories based on the extent of damage, which included those that needed renovation and some that needed to be razed, and would have to be rebuilt from the ground. The engineering division of the Mysuru zilla panchayat has been entrusted the task of rebuilding and fixing the 418 schools. While work on roughly 209 schools has been completed, the remaining structures are still being worked on. Deputy director of public instruction, Mysuru Panduranga said that work on the schools commenced after the DC greenlighted the initiative last November. “The pace of work slackened after the initial months owing to the pandemic. A sum of Rs 2 lakh was allocated for repair of each school. All the buildings will be in perfect condition in time for the reopening of the schools,” Panduranga told TOI. Member of the Karnataka Commission for Protection of Child Rights VP Niranjanaradhya urged the government to expedite work on the damaged school buildings. “The government must use the time available now, with all schools staying shut owing to the pandemic. The students will be much pleased to see their schools in solid condition when they return in September, which is when they are slated for reopening,” he told TOI. Shivaswamy, a parent of a student in Vyasarajapura in T Narasipura taluk, said that many children in the village often gave classes a miss owing to the poor condition of the school building. He expressed delight with the initiative being taken to fix those structures that were damaged by rain last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/renovation-of-418-schools-in-mysuru-damaged-in-flood-gathers-pace/articleshow/77248385.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Mumbai||Relief likely for Maharashtra power consumers hit by inflated bills||MUMBAI: The state government is likely to give relief to crores of electricity customers who complained about inflated bills during lockdown. At a meeting on Wednesday, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and some other cabinet ministers, officials from state power department along with officials from Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC), discussed how to give relief to consumers and a draft proposal has been sent to MERC, which once cleared by the regulator, will be tabled at the cabinet meeting next week. Senior officials said the government may announce a rebate or reduction in tariff. Shiv Sena leader and cabinet minister Anil Parab said the discussion was to extend relief to consumers. A power utility firm official here said at the meeting with ministers on Tuesday, power firms made a presentation on tariff structure and how bills were generated during lockdown. “We explained how winter month consumption was used for estimated/average bills during lockdown (April-May) and subsequently, when the actual meter readings were taken in June, the bill amount went up,” he said, adding that ministers will take a call on how to give “relief” to consumers. “It could be anything from rebates to reduction in power tariff, but nothing is finalised,”' the official said. A MERC source said it was not possible to comment unless a final proposal was received from the state government. Power consumer activist Pratap Hogade said that for those consuming up to 300 units, there should be a waiver on bills during lockdown. More than 94% residential consumers fall in this slab. It will cost the state exchequer around Rs 3,700 crore to provide relief, he said. Aam Aadmi Party also sought relief for residential consumers for up to 200 units consumption. Former MP Kirit Somaiya filed a plea before MERC demanding free electricity of 100 units and 50% concession for up to 300 units during lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/relief-likely-for-state-power-consumers-hit-by-inflated-bills/articleshow/77249256.cms||Bhavika Jain
July 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Mayor wants smell cards at malls; experts say it’s not a good idea||Bengaluru: BBMP’s proposal to have smell cards for Covid-19 screening hasn’t gone down well with doctors though loss of sense of smell (anosmia) is a symptom. Mayor Goutham Kumar suggested that smell cards be used in malls, hotels, theatres and public places. The National Task Force had discussed smell and taste tests for screening, but no decision was taken. He suggested it at a meeting with the chief secretary too. “Smell cards need to have strong citrus flavour or fruit flavour, and if a person fails to detect it, he shouldn’t be allowed to enter the premises,” he added. Smell cards would be used in addition to thermal screening. However, many senior health officials opposed it. “Many people suffer from anosmia. Just because they’re unable to smell doesn’t mean they have Covid,” said a senior medical officer working in a Covid treating hospital. Dr EV Raman, ENT consultant, Manipal Hospitals, said the government shoudn’t take a hasty decision. “Smell cards should be supported other checks too,” he added. Sandra Richard, a psychologist from Mahadevapura whose daughter is an anosmic, said smell cards would be harsh measure. “My child already feels miserable. Such a test would be disturbing thing,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/mayor-wants-smell-cards-at-malls-experts-say-its-not-a-good-idea/articleshow/77248930.cms||Nithya Mandyam
July 30, 2020||Bareilly||Government veterinary officer among four booked for gang-rape of widow in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: A government veterinary officer was on Tuesday booked for allegedly raping a woman, 30, on promise of providing her a job on compassionate ground in place of her husband who had died just four months ago. Dr Sukhdev’s three friends were also booked for the alleged gang-rape which took place on August 24 last year and was also filmed.The victim claimed that she didn’t come out with her ordeal for several months as she was threatened by the accused. And when she approached police, the FIR was also not registered. It was only after she approached a court that the case was registered.The victim said that her husband, who was a contractual worker in a government transport service at Champawat district in Uttarakhand, had died and she was struggling to get a job in his place. On August 24, when she was on way to Bareilly via Pilibhit and was buying a mineral water bottle at Naugwan crossing, Sukhdev arrived at that shop. Since she knew him, they started talking. According to the victim, Sukhdev told her that he knew several senior officers and would help her land the job.Sukhdev then asked her to accompany him to the veterinary hospital campus in Pilibhit city and she agreed, according to the complaint. At Sukhdev’s office, his three friends were already present. One of them suddenly bolted the door and then all of them raped her, she alleged.After several complaints to police officers didn’t yield results, she moved the court which had ordered police to file a case.The station house officer (SHO) of Pilibhit Kotwali police station, Shrikant Dwivedi, told that Sukhdev along with three anonymous persons have been booked under section 376-D (gang rape in furtherance of a common intention) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/government-veterinary-officer-among-four-booked-for-gang-rape-of-widow-in-pilibhit/articleshow/77247444.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Over 9,000 patients recover from Covid in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: As many as 9,338 Covid-19 patients had recovered from the contagion in the district till Wednesday. However, 71 people tested positive for Covid-19 on the day, taking the total number of cases to 13,440. Four deaths due to the infection were also recorded on Wednesday. With this, the death toll has risen to 462. There are 3,640 active cases. Of the four deceased, a 58-year-old man from Samtanagar Shikshak Colony, Sillod, and a 59-year-old resident of Qaisar Colony Aurangabad were being treated at private hospitals, and a 70-year-old man from Roshan Gate and a 46-year-old man from Fazalpura area of the city were being treated at GMCH. Officials said on Wednesday more Covid-19 cases were reported from the rural parts of the district, with 41 patients. Of them 38, tested positive in antigen tests. The fresh cases include 14 from Vaijapur, nine from Paithan, four from Soegaon, two cases reported each from Pachod in Paithan taluka and Sillod while one patient was reported from Nutan Colony Gangapur. The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation area reported 30 Covid patients||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/over-9000-patients-recover-from-covid-in-aurangabad/articleshow/77247446.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Surat||One worker one emery wheel, or antigen test for all||Surat: Diamantaires in Surat are in dilemma on whether to operate their units with two workers on emery wheel or not. The main reason being the unit owners have been told to bear the cost for the mandatory rapid antigen test of every worker. Cost of the test is Rs 750 per head. The standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has permitted only one worker to sit on the emery wheel for the cutting and polishing of diamonds, instead of the previous norm of four workers, to contain the spread of Covid-19 infection. The Surat Diamond Association (SDA) and the Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) have urged the SMC authorities to allow at least two workers on the emery wheels to provide employment to more workers and to prevent their mass exodus. President of SDA, Babu Kathiriya told TOI, “For having two workers on an emery wheel, the SMC has made it mandatory for diamond units to get rapid antigen test down for each worker. Suppose a small unit has 100 workers then he will have to spend about Rs 80,000 for testing the workers. Under the current severe financial crisis, unit owners are not in position to spend such huge amounts of money for testing the workers.” Industry sources said that the small and medium diamond units are yet to restart operation due to the strict Covid guidelines issued by the SMC. Even the big units employing over 5,000 workers are facing difficulties due to the one worker one emery wheel norm. Kathiriya said, “The diamond industry is ready for the mass rapid test of the workers, but they should get relief in the cost of testing by the government.” Over 1,600 diamond workers have been infected with Covid-19 in the last one-and-a-half-month. Majority of the cases were detected from the diamond units in Varachha and Katargam. Dinesh Navadiya, regional chairman of GJEPC said, “The GJEPC has sent a representation to the government for working out a 50-50 cost the formula for the rapid testing of the workers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/one-worker-one-emery-wheel-or-antigen-test-for-all/articleshow/77247458.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Coimbatore||11 test +ve, 17 discharged in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: At least 11 people tested positive for the novel coronavirus in the Nilgiris on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases to 735. Seventeen patients were also discharged in the day, improving the recovery rate to 79% from 77% on Tuesday. Only 152 patients in the district are presently undergoing treatment. Of the 11 new cases, nine are contacts of earlier positive cases with travel history to Coimbatore. A 54-year-old woman from Kallhatty, a secondary contact a patient from T.Oranalli wedding function cluster, and a 13-year-old boy, who returned from Salem, are also among the new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/11-test-ve-17-discharged-in-nilgiris/articleshow/77250104.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Bhopal||Unlock 3: Night curfew lifted, gyms to open from August 5 in MP||BHOPAL: There will be no night curfew in Madhya Pradesh from August 1 — subject to the administration of different districts deciding otherwise. Independence Day celebration will also be allowed, provided social distancing norms and Covid safety precautions are followed. There will be no restriction on inter-state or intra-state movement of people and goods either, says the home ministry guidelines for Unlock-3. Additional chief secretary, home, S N Mishra, when asked how the guidelines for Unlock-3 would be executed in MP, where several districts are under lockdown , said " Guidelines of the home ministy are binding. States or districts, according to local situation, may impose more restrictions but these guidelines can’t be diluted. The government will discuss the guidelines on Thursday. “ He further said that the total lockdown in certain districts is a local issue, where crisis management group has taken this decision in the wake of local circumstances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/unlock-3-night-curfew-lifted-gyms-to-open-from-august-5/articleshow/77248932.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Coimbatore||289 test +ve for coronavirus, 2 die, 184 recover in district||Coimbatore: The district recorded 289 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths on Wednesday, even as 184 patients recovered from the virus and got discharged from the facilities they were undergoing treatment. Of the 4,344 cases that the district recorded so far, only 1,687 are active. The toll now stands at 46. The Covid care centre in Codissia trade fair complex is likely to be extended to another hall soon to accommodate the growing number of patients. Two days after the deputy director of public health sought permission from the district administration to take over hall C, health department officials inspected the same on Wednesday afternoon. An official said rotary clubs in the district have offered to set up and manage the Covid care centre in hall C. “If it works out, they will arrange all the facilities in the hall and food and refreshments for patients. However, we will be monitoring patients, recording their vitals and providing them medication that include vitamin and zinc tablets and arsenic album.” Codissia, according to the official, already houses close to 553 patients. While hall D has 274 patients, hall E has 279. There are at least 117 beds still available in the two halls. There was no let-up in the virus spread in Selvapuram cluster which recorded 10 new cases and RS Puram, where seven people tested positive from Lighthouse Road and Subramaniam Road. Neighbouring areas such as Ukkadam and Podanur and rural areas of Pollachi, Mettupalayam and Vedapatti also reported fresh cases. A 34-year-old man from PRS quarters and a family of four from Karupparayan Kovil Street at Sanganoor are also among the new cases. Both the deceased were elderly people. One was a 70-year-old woman and another an 81-year-old man. They died a few hours after hospitalization, implying that they were late to seek treatment. The woman, who was diabetic and hypertensive, approached the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) on Monday at 12.31am with severe breathlessness and bronchopneumonia. She died 10 hours later the same day. The man also came to CMCH with respiratory distress on Monday around 1.50pm and died at 3.20pm. He had pneumonia. Their Covid-19 test results, which arrived on Tuesday, showed them positive for the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/289-test-ve-for-coronavirus-2-die-184-recover-in-district/articleshow/77250111.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Hubballi||Covaxin trials: Screening begins in Karnataka||BELAGAVI: Clinical human trials of the indigenous Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin are set to begin soon at the Jeevan Rekha Hospital which has begun screening volunteers. The hospital is among 12 sites chosen in 12 cities across the country to test the vaccine. Trials have begun in five of these hospitals — including AIIMS in Delhi. Jeevan Rekha Hospital, the only one chosen in the state, will conduct the tests on 200 volunteers. The hospital had invited volunteers aged between 18 and 55 for the trials. Sources said around 40 have registered so far and they have been screened. It will take around 48 hours to determine their status based on the results of the blood and swab tests. First and second doses of the vaccine will be administered to those who have tested negative for Covid and whose blood samples are found normal. There on, tests will be conducted every month to check for development of antibodies. Samples will be sent regularly to ICMR which will collate the findings from all testing sites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/covaxin-trials-screening-begins-in-karnataka/articleshow/77248956.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Coimbatore||City zumba instructor crowned Ms Wellness at virtual contest||Coimbatore: City-based zumba instructor Shabhna Ramakrishnan was crowned Ms Wellness at an online national-level fitness and wellness competition that was conducted by Fitness and Sports Sciences Association (FSSA) recently. She competed against 42 other women, who were also fitness and wellness experts, from across the country.After her victory, the fitness instructor said it was a wonderful platform to promote health and wellness among women, especially mental well-being in times like this. The FSSA Ms Wellness India 2020 contest tested contestants in several dimensions of health, fitness, mental wellness and overall well-being. At the end of the three-day event, Shabha was crowned Ms Wellness in the prime category.Shabhna says she hopes to inspire more women to focus more on their physical health and mental well-being. “I also hope to inspire more women in the fitness and wellness field by winning a national-level wellness competition where we, from tier II cities in south, are usually labelled as underdogs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-zumba-instructor-crowned-ms-wellness-at-virtual-contest/articleshow/77250107.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Mumbai||Mira Rd pvt hosp barred from treating Covid patients||Mumbai: Mira Bhayander Municipal Corporation (MBMC) has barred a private hospital in Mira Road from treating Covid-19 patients following complaints of inflated bills. The administration had issued a notice to the hospital at Beverly Park following complaints from discharged patients. Civic officials said as it failed to respond to the notice, it has been banned from treating Covid-19 patients. It has been directed to refund excess money charged from patients. The dedicated Pandit Bhimsen Joshi Covid hospital in Bhayander (W) is overflowing with patients. Around nine hospitals have tied up with the administration to treat Covid patients as per government-approved charges. Other private hospitals are also treating Covid patients but are charging exorbitant rates. A five-member team has been set up to audit Covid bills of private hospitals. The civic administration has also invited tenders for a 1,000-bed Covid care centre at Balasaheb Thackeray ground in Bhayander. A 366-bed Covid care centre at Pramod Mahajan auditorium and Meenatai Thackeray hall in Bhayander (E) is expected to start next week. The civic administration has launched a website (www.covidbedmbmc) with details of bed availability daily. Requests can be made through the site. A helpline (28141516) has also been started to help patients. Around 23,000 swab samples have been collected so far as cases have reached 7,838, including 261 deaths. Active cases are 1,705.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mira-rd-pvt-hosp-barred-from-treating-covid-patients/articleshow/77249257.cms||Sandhya Nair
July 30, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Is lockdown a cure for coronavirus spread?||BHOPAL: While India will enter Unlock-3 on August 1, Bhopal will still be under complete lockdown as cases continue to rise. Unlock-3 is expected to open up international flights, tourism, parks, gyms i.e. almost all the restrictions imposed during the nationwide lockdown would be lifted except for perhaps opening of schools and colleges. But, sources in the district collectorate hinted that when lockdown in Bhopal is lifted on August 4, only the situation before the lockdown would be reinstated i.e. five days of work and two days of lockdown on weekends. Is lockdown the only solution to curb the spread of coronavirus? Has it been effective in curbing the menace in Bhopal? And can the same lockdown ‘solution’ be repeated time and again? TOI spoke to a cross-section of people to get their views on the issue: “246 new coronavirus-infected persons have been found in Bhopal today. The highest so far. This is after four days of lockdown. As a layman, I would only derive that lockdown is not effective. Besides, it’s not a solution but only a stop-gap arrangement. Tell me, if on the 10th day of lockdown, you have the highest figure of new patients, what would the administration do?”said Sunil Khatri, a trader. There are also people, who believe that since the lockdown could never be enforced in right earnest, the pandemic could not be contained. “I remember, till April, there were not too many coronavirus patients in Bhopal. The ‘containment zone’ in those days also used to be big, but restrictions were neither followed by residents of the area nor enforced by the police and the admimistration. The BMC also failed in its task of providing vegetables and grocery at your home, thereby making people come out. That is how the coronavirus spread in Bhopal. Had the agencies been alert and there was coordination among them, the situation would not have come to this stage where we had to clamp lockdown again,” said an official of the district administration on the condition of anonymity. Activists believe that the state government or district administration could not put its message across to people effectively and need to involve civil society groups in its efforts to control the menace. Therefore, it had to resort to ‘coercive’ methods like the lockdown at places like Bhopal more than once. “What we have seen is trust deficit between people and the official machinery at its worst. The government and the administration were asking people to wear masks and maintain social distancing to protect them, but it seemed as if people were not “interested”. How could it be? Why are people not listening to something being told for their protection? As the situation is unfolding itself, we see the administration resorting to ‘fear tactics’ because people are not listening to them,” said Sachin Jain. He further said that the government should have involved civil society groups and people at large in its endevour, which it didn't do. Economic thinker, Rajendra Kothari, said, “Arm-chair bureaucrats and politicians should understand that it’s a question of choosing between food and “possible infection” that someone might contract if they go to work, for 80% of the Indian population working in the unorganised sector. The government may close its office and continue giving salary to its employees, but what about a tea vendor or a labourer? He doesn't have the luxury to remain without job if there is a situation of prolonged lockdown as we are witnessing in Bhopal,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/is-lockdown-a-cure-for-coronavirus-spread/articleshow/77248941.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Mumbai||Seven-day NIA custody for Delhi varsity professor||MUMBAI: A special court on Wednesday granted NIA seven-day custody of Delhi University associate professor Hany Babu MT (54) in Elgar Parishad case. Arrested on Tuesday, Babu will be in custody till August 4. He is the 12th accused to be taken into custody in the case. NIA sought police custody for 10 days. Special judge A T Wankhede said he looking at the nature of offences and allegations against Babu, demand of police custody remand by investigating officer was well-founded. “Allegations against the accused are serious. The accused allegedly has connections and links with banned CPI-M. The investigating officer wants to confront him with facts established from other accused,” the court said. Babu was produced in court at 12.20pm. NIA submitted that Babu’s medical examination was conducted and he had not shown symptoms of Covid-19. Special public prosecutor Prakash Shetty told court that NIA had to confront Babu with facts revealed during investigations from arrested accused. He submitted that Babu was linked to CPI-M. The prosecution said during investigations, incriminating letters were recovered. Defence advocate R Sathyanarayanan, assisted by advocates Arif Siddiqui and Nilesh Ukey, opposed the plea. The defence submitted that Babu had been interrogated by NIA for four to five days before arrest. They said further custodial interrogation was not required. Federation of Central Universities Teachers’ Association supported Babu and condemned his arrest. The arrest was part of an attempt to criminalize dissent, as was seen in with arrests of students who participated in anti-CAA protests, and portended ominous times ahead for the academic community, it said. “It was extremely unfortunate that academic censorship and criminal vitiation of academic spaces stared us in the face and we rise in complete protest and rage,” it said. Many academics see the arrest as a continuing assault by the central government on academic intelligentsia and social activists in the country, who have shown courage to express dissent, a report from Kochi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/7-day-nia-custody-for-delhi-varsity-prof/articleshow/77249260.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Coimbatore||DMK protests drinking water shortage||Coimbatore: DMK members led by Singanallur MLA N Karthik on Wednesday staged protests in the city, seeking regular supply of drinking water. Drinking water is supplied only once in 10 days, the protesters, who were carrying black flags and plastic pots, said. Karthik blamed the local administration department for the crisis. “In 2018, the right to supply drinking water was given to Suez India Private Limited. But till now, no infrastructure has been developed to supply water round-the-clock,” he said.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dmk-protests-drinking-water-shortage/articleshow/77250146.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Serial killer who jumped parole in January in Crime Branch’s net||NEW DELHI: The Crime Branch of Delhi Police has arrested a convicted serial killer, who had jumped parole in January this year and gone underground. The convict, Devender Sharma (62), was serving a life sentence at the Central Jail in Jaipur in a murder case and was behind bars for about 16 years. According to DCP (Crime) Rakesh Powaria, Sharma was involved in over a dozen cases of kidnapping and murder registered in different police stations of Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. “He and his accomplices used to dump dead bodies in Hazara Canal in Kashganj, Uttar Pradesh. Sharma was also arrested twice for running a fake gas agency in UP,” the DCP added. Cops said that Sharma was also arrested for running a kidney transplant racket in different states and is estimated to have got more than 125 kidney transplant done from 1994 to 2004, with the help of doctors and middlemen. The kidnappings and murders the accused committed were linked to the kidney racket, an officer claimed. Having a BAMS degree, Sharma was later referred to as Dr Death. After jumping parole, he married a widow and was started residing secretly in Baprola area of Delhi. “While gathering information about wanted and desperate criminals, ACP JN Jha and inspector Ram Manohar from the narcotics cell got a tip-off about a convicted killer, who was let out on parole for 20 days from Jaipur jail but never returned,” the DCP said. Cops conducted on-ground enquiries and located Sharma’s hideout. A raid was conducted and he was nabbed. During interrogation, he told police that he had a degree in BAMS from Bihar’s Siwan district and had opened a clinic in Jaipur in 1984. Later, he and his associates started robbing trucks carrying LPG cylinders. The men used to kill the driver and steal the cylinders. He later started targeting taxi drivers, and then got involved in an illegal kidney transplant racket running in Jaipur, Ballabhgarh, Gurgaon and other places. Watch Delhi: Crime Branch arrest serial killer who jumped parole in January||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/serial-killer-who-jumped-parole-in-january-in-crime-branchs-net/articleshow/77250201.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Shimla||‘Unscientific plantation not good for Himalayan biodiversity’||MANALI: With massive campaigns going on across the state, people in Himachal Pradesh are planting thousands of saplings every day, but experts say indigenous plants were being ignored in these drives. People are planting whatever species are available and this practice does not fulfil the motive of biodiversity, soil and environment conservation, experts point out. Himachal has planted crores of trees in last few years. People in the state are so concerned about increasing the green cover that at many places empty land for new plantation is not available. In most places, only deodar and pine trees are being planted. As monsoon is in full swing, forest department is busy in supplying saplings and supervising a number of afforestation campaigns run by residents and many NGO, associations and clubs. “No scientific protocols are followed. Percentage of planting stocks has more of fast growing exotic varieties rather than local indigenous plants of wild fruits and nuts, as needed for biodiversity conservation. Area selection for plantings is als not on scientific lines but on availability of surplus land,” a retired forest official A C Sharma said. “Some species dry up ground water level and some are least beneficial to environment. The indigenous fruit varieties that are beneficial for environment and help in biodiversity conservation should be adopted. Not just deodar and pines, we need broad-leaved trees as well,” he added. National award winner environmentalist Kishan Thakur said, “We are on a path to set a world record in plantation drives but nobody cares for site selection for particular species. Only broad-leaved stocks, especially local varieties, should be planted near the rivers and water streams. Survival rate of new plantation decreases if non-native species. I always oppose plantation without studying the local ecology, altitude and species.” Thankfully not all those incolved in planting saplings are disconnected with the reality. Some people have now started growing wild fruit and nut varieties that used to be the part of that area but disappeared due to deforestation. People of Kothi near Manali are preparing a small forest of wild fruit varieties at Gulaba below Rohtang Pass over four hectare. Similarly, residents of Bran village near Manali are preparing a biodiversity park containing wild fruit and nuts varieties. “A huge area above our village along a nullah is home to different rare species of Himalayan pheasants like Himalayan monal and western tragopan. This forest will become a safe haven for them. The area is also a source of drinking water for many villages. So we are growing such species which will maintain the groundwater level,” said Manish, president of youth club of the village. Forest minister Govind Singh Thakur, who planted some saplings in the name of his parents on Monday, said the forest department has been directed to prepare all the varieties of the plants, including some medicinal ones. “We have set a target to cover as much area as possible. The species are being provided on demand from people. If people have any suggestions, they can share with the department,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/unscientific-plantation-not-good-for-himalayan-biodiversity-conservation/articleshow/77250138.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Nagpur||Jalaj Sharma joins as third additional municipal commissioner in NMC||Nagpur: IAS officer of 2014 batch — Jalaj Sharma assumed the charge of additional municipal commissioner in the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Thursday. Sharma, who was posted as chief executive officer at Yavatmal Zilla Parishad till now, will be the third additional municipal commissioner in NMC. Ram Joshi of additional collector rank and Sanjay Nipane of senior chief officer rank are the other two. A native of Haryana, Sharma will be the second IAS officer in the civic body after municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe. A computer engineer by qualification, Sharma is probably the third IAS officer to join as additional municipal commissioner in NMC after Atul Patne and Ravindra Thakre. He had also worked as sub divisional officer at Jalgaon. He started his service as IRS officer in 2011 and was selected as an IAS officer in 2014.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/jalaj-sharma-joins-as-third-additional-municipal-commissioner-in-nmc/articleshow/77271671.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Two engineering colleges to host Smart India Hackathon||Coimbatore: Two technical institutions here will host the software edition of the Smart India Hackathon 2020 organised by the ministry of human resource development (MHRD) for three days from Saturday. Due to the Covid-19 lockdown restrictions, it will be a virtual contest.The two virtual nodal centres at Hindusthan College of Engineering and Technology and Sri Krishna college of Engineering and Technology here will respectively host 26 and 28 teams from across the country. Each team will have six students, who will write code to solve problems posed by the government of Bihar and the departments of financial services, and science and technology. The teams will be brought together on communication platform Slack. “As many as 1,000 teams across the country will participate in the hackathon, for which 40 nodal centres have been set up. Of these six centres in the state, two are in Coimbatore,” said K P Dhanabalakrishnan, a representative of Hindustan Group of Institutions. Two student teams from here will visit the venue at Sri Krishna College of Engineering and Technology, while the other teams from across the country will log in to the event, said principal J Janet. “We have arranged transportation for those students. This will be the fourth consecutive year we are hosting the hackathon,” she said.Union minister for human resource development Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank will inaugurate the hackathon in New Delhi. Prime minister Narendra Modi will interact with the participants through video conferencing on Saturday evening. Each winning solution will be given Rs 1lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-engineering-colleges-to-host-smart-india-hackathon/articleshow/77250113.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Goa||Goa braces for weeklong heavy rainfall starting August 1||PANAJI: The conditions of isolated heavy rainfall are likely to prevail till July 31 however, from the first week of August, the state is going to experience heavy rainfall, the India meteorological department (IMD) said. “From August 1 onwards, the rainfall conditions are going to improve. As a result, the intensity and distribution of rainfall is going to increase. The conditions will be prolonged for almost the entire first week of August,” IMD scientist Rahul M said. The IMD has attributed the reason for the heavy rainfall to the occurrence of a few weather systems that will usher the heavy showers to the Goa coast. There is a circulation forming over the Bay of Bengal, the intensification of pressure gradient lines over the Arabian Sea and monsoon currents at around 1.5 km in height are also going to intensity. After these, there are more systems over the Bay of Bengal forming back to back. “We are constantly monitoring the situation and calculating the quantum of rainfall. We are expecting heavy rainfall, but it is likely to go up to very heavy rainfall or higher than that. We will be able to conclude that within 48 hours,” Rahul said. Besides this, winds will also be of a higher speed, IMD said. With fishing activities expected to resume from August 1, the IMD will be issuing a fisherman alert warning them against venturing into the sea during the week. “From August 1, fishermen will face a problem while venturing into the sea. So, from August 1 onwards we would advise that they do not venture into the sea.” the IMD scientist said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-braces-for-weeklong-heavy-rainfall-starting-aug-1/articleshow/77251034.cms||Nida Sayed
July 30, 2020||Surat||Youth ends life due to ‘sexual harassment’||Surat: The family members of an 18-year-old youth, who ended his life on July 26, alleged that he committed suicide following harassment by a 27-year-old woman who had developed physical relationship with him in the past couple of years and was blackmailing him. Mahil Gamit, a resident of Nana Varachha, was found hanging from the ceiling fan at his residence on Sunday morning. Police did not find any suicide note in the house but family members allege that Mahil was living under stress due to the relationship. Mahil, a diamond unit employee, was living with his mother Tara (45) and Vishal (23), also an employee in a diamond unit. His mother informed the police that on Sunday morning Mahil received a call on his mobile phone and he went upstairs. Later when he did not come down his mother went to check and found the body hanging. “Mahil started receiving threats from the woman’s former boyfriends. Mahil and the woman were spotted together by the woman’s husband after which the man came to fight with us. Her husband and boyfriend were pressurising Mahil to discontinue the relationship while the woman was blackmailing him. This drove my brother into depression,” said Vishal. The family is currently in their native village in Mangrol of Surat district to perform rituals. After returning, police are likely to question them in details. “The family members have informed the police about harassment by the woman. They will be questioned after they return from the village,” said a police officer at the Kapodra Police Station. “Mobile call records and messages of the deceased will be checked to find out if he was harassed by the woman. We have not called the woman for questioning and she will be called only if we get strong evidence against her,” police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/youth-ends-life-due-to-sexual-harassment/articleshow/77247540.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Mumbai||Convict escapes from hospital, held||MUMBAI: JJ Marg police arrested a convict who fled from JJ Hospital after he was admitted for a cancer check-up. Police had contacted his girlfriend and collected information while searching for him. Jagdish Walmiki (25), from Kalyan, was convicted for a house break-in and lodged at Kalyan’s Aadharwadi jail. He was shifted to hospital after authorities suspected he had cancer on July 20. “He was under observation and Thane police guards were posted outside his ward. He escaped when night shift guards were having meals outside on July 22,” said a police officer. The guards later approached police and lodged a complaint. Police flashed his photo to all stations and scanned CCTV footage. “He frequently changed his location. His girlfriend did not know his location but helped us with other information. Later, we learnt about his whereabouts in Kalyan taluka police station jurisdiction and alerted our counterparts there. Walmiki was picked up from there and brought to JJ Marg police station,” said the officer. He has seven criminal cases against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/convict-flees-from-hosp-held/articleshow/77249269.cms||Mateen Hafeez
July 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Kotkhai custodial death: Zahur Haider Zaidi seeks better facilities in jail||CHANDIGARH: A special court has issued a notice to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on two applications moved by suspended inspector general of police (IGP) Zahur Haider Zaidi, an accused in the Kotkhai custodial death case, seeking permission to use computer in Burail jail office to prepare his case notes and for grant of better class facilities in the prison. The special CBI court here has sought the premier investigating agency’s response by July 31. In the first application, Zaidi has stated that he is living with 12 other inmates in the prison cell, where his documents are at constant risk of being misplaced. He said before the outbreak of Covid-19, when his counsel would visit him, he would hand him over the handwritten instructions and other documents. But, after the Covid-19 outbreak, his visits were discontinued. So, he prayed that he be allowed to use a computer in the jail office for three hours a week. Although the jail superintendent has dismissed his application citing security reasons and saying that no such provision exists in the Punjab Jail Manual, he said handwritten notes can be sent outside the jail following the due procedure. Zaidi can also discuss his case through e-Mulakat with his advocate and talk over phone to his advocate, the jail superintendent said, after which Zaidi moved the court. In the second application, Zaidi has stated that since he is a post-graduate and an income tax payer, he is entitled for “B” class facilities inside jail as per the jail manual, and hence he should be granted better class facilities. Zaidi, along with several others, is an accused in a case over the custodial death of an accused, who had been arrested in the case of alleged rape and murder of a 16-year-old schoolgirl in Kotkhai area of Shimla district in 2017. Six men were arrested initially by the Himachal Police in the case and one of them was later found dead at the Kotkhai police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kotkhai-custodial-death-suspended-igp-seeks-better-facilities-in-jail/articleshow/77250174.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid beds allotted by govt up 52%, but only on paper||Bengaluru: Over the past 12 days, the number of beds allotted for Covid-19 patients under government quota in the city has shot up by 52% to 13,309 – but that’s only on paper. Officials say most private hospitals are flouting government diktat and are yet to part with 10-20% of the beds to the government. Private hospitals, while admitting they have not kept to their side of the bargain to hand over 50% beds, claimed they did so for good reason — which range from shortage of staff to cost overburden. As of 6am on July 17, government data made public showed there were a total 8,724 beds reserved for Covid patients in the city. Of these, 7,182 were in private hospitals and private medical colleges and the remaining were in government hospitals and medical colleges. There were 2,803 patients occupying various types of bed, with 49% of them in critical care units (high dependency units, ICUs or ICUs with ventilators), on the day. As of 6am July 29, data shows that there are 13,309 beds — a 52% increase from 12 days ago. Of these, 11,685 were from private hospitals and medical colleges while 1,624 were at government hospitals and medical colleges. This means that the increase in private beds is 63%, while beds at government facilities have increased by just 5%. And, as on Wednesday, 3,342 patients are occupying hospital beds in the city, 605 of whom are in critical care units. The fresh data is arrived at on the assumption that 50% of all beds with private facilities, going by their licences, are made available for government quota Covid treatment. However, this is not the case. Tushar Girinath, head, task force to streamline bed availability and allotment in Bengaluru, told TOI: “Unless there is a complete release of beds by the private hospitals, the government does not have total control over allocations. A one-time total release of beds will ensure that we have the exact numbers on ground.” Late on Wednesday, the government again reiterated its stand and issued a circular asking private hospitals to update bed availability, in their individual establishments, on the government’s portal every six hours. At present, ground teams report a certain number of beds, which is completely different from the actual numbers sent out by the medical education and health departments. There is no real time data of private hospital beds. “There are also concerns of beds mismatch with 108 being made the super administrator,” Girinath said. “As per protocol, if a patient is already complaining of breathlessness and ascertained as Sari then there is no need of reporting anywhere and 108 can directly ask a hospital to admit the patient under government quota.” This means that unless the patient report for Covid-19 arrives, he/she is considered as a non-Covid patient occupying a Covid bed. Dr Prasanna, president, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association, said: “Most hospitals have released 30% to 40% of their bed capacity to the government. People do not realise that we spend double the amount fixed for each bed by the government.” He, however, added there is also a problem of the bed unit (BU) number being allotted by the government. “It is tedious,” he said, and pointed out that many patients who end up at private hospitals do not have BU numbers — which is to be given after an approval on the Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka portal — but BBMP officials pressure hospitals to admit them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-beds-allotted-by-govt-up-52-but-only-on-paper/articleshow/77249005.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Coimbatore||Industrialists seek steps to rev up biz||Coimbatore: With chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami set to decide on the regulations for the next phase of the lockdown, industrialists in the city have written to him, seeking increased public transport between districts, flexible e-pass facilities for industries and full-fledged functioning of banks. In their letter to the CM on Wednesday, representatives of the Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Association (Focia), said as the lockdown, complete lockdown and relaxations were announced alternatively, micro and small industries in the city were hit badly. “There have been inordinate delays in receiving and sending materials,” the letter said. One of the main issues they represented pertained to labour. “The state should allow bus and train facilities to bring back workers from other districts and states.” J James, a coordinator of Focia, said while big industries could arrange buses to bring their workers back, micro and small units couldn’t. “We will have to shell out more than Rs 15,000 to bring back workers in a bus that can accommodate 40 people. To tide over the crisis, the state government should resume public transport services,” said S Surulivel, another coordinator. “Workers have to travel to other districts for assembling machines, post-sales service and also for marketing. Now the provision of e-passes through the district industries centre has been stopped and we are finding it difficult to obtain them. E-pass mechanism for industries should be made flexible. Banks should resume full-fledged operation with necessary safety measures,” the letter said. “As there are only 50% of staff in banks, there are delays in processing loan documents and even getting account statements. This is also causing hurdles to industrial units,” James said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/industrialists-seek-steps-to-rev-up-biz/articleshow/77250175.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Coimbatore||2 men arrested for trying to murder pawn shop owner||Coimbatore: Two men have been arrested for attempting to murder a pawn shop owner after he refused to accept a silver article that one of them wanted to pledge for money at Ramanathpuram in the city.According to a police officer, D Deepak alias Vivek, 23, of Vellalore, had approached C Rajamanikam, 31, at his pawn shop on 80-feet Road at Ramanathapuram to pledge the silver article. “As Deepak was in an inebriated state, the shop owner refused to accept it. An altercation arose between them and Deepak left the spot after threatening Rajamanikam of dire consequences.”Deepak, the officer said, narrated the entire incident to his friend S Sabarigirisan, 33, of Veerakeralam, and they decided to take revenge on the shop owner.“On Monday, the two waited for Rajamanikam on their bike near the pawn shop. When he came out of the shop and started his vehicle, the duo attacked him with a sickle and sped away. Rajamanikam sustained injuries to his and shoulders. People in the vicinity rushed him to a private hospital, where he is undergoing treatment,” the officer said.Based on Rajamanikam’s complaint, the Ramanathapuram police booked Deepak and Sabarigirisan under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 506 (ii) (criminal intimidation), 294 (B) (sings, recites obscene words) and 109 (for abetting the offence) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested them on Tuesday. They were later produced before a judicial magistrate, who remanded them in judicial custody. They were subsequently lodged in Avinashi sub-jail.The officer said Deepak was already facing three cases, including one for assaulting a man with sickle in front of the integrated court complex over previous enmity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-men-arrested-for-trying-to-murder-pawn-shop-owner/articleshow/77250179.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Varsities await SC verdict on UGC exam guidelines||KOLKATA: Several state-run universities are likely to miss the July 31 deadline recommended by the West Bengal higher education department to publish the BA, BSc final year, BCom terminal semester and the PG final semester results. Senior officials indicated that most varsities were waiting for the Supreme Court’s July 31 hearing on the UGC terminal semester exam advisory. Lady Brabourne College principal Siuli Sarkar on Wednesday said the college had submitted 20% marks as internal assessment taken in the undergraduate examinations within July 10. “Usually, some of our teachers visit and verify the scores and then, as we are informed by CU, authorized individuals from the college visit the university and collect the UG results. This year, no such information has arrived yet,” she said. Tapan Poddar, principal of Vivekananda College, said they were awaiting information on publication of the UG final-year results. “The result publication is going slow, keeping in view the apex court hearing on Friday,” he said. Sources said marks verification was on at Presidency University. “We do not know the dates of publishing the UG results,” said a teacher. Several calls made to the university officials went unanswered. At Rabindra Bharati University, a senior official said, the last UGC circular, asking varsities to hold exams at the end of September, and the state advisory were contradictory. “We would not want to publish the results immediately since the matter is sub judice,” he said. At JU, a ‘course completion certificate’ was awarded to graduating engineering students. The provisional results have been published. “In the humanities and science faculties, the terminal semester results are awaited,” a faculty member said. MAKAUT is the only university in Kolkata that managed to publish the final semester results for all undergraduate programmes within time. At North Bengal University, the fate of the UG and PG students now depends on the apex court verdict. Controller of the examination at NBU Debasis Dutta said, “We will be in a position to comment after the verdict.” (With inputs from Roshan Gupta in Siliguri)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/varsities-await-sc-verdict-on-ugc-exam-guidelines/articleshow/77249017.cms||Somdatta Basu
July 30, 2020||Bhopal||917 fresh infections; MP tally breaches 30k mark||Bhopal: The state recorded the highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases yet again on Wednesday — with 917 fresh infections. With this, MP’s Covid tally has breached the 30,000 mark and reached 30,134. In addition, 14 deaths were also reported in the state talking the state corona death toll to 844. As of now, 16,541 Covid cases have been reported in July alone in Madhya Pradesh. This is 54% of the total cases reported in the state since March 20 when the first Covid patient was found. Overall, Bhopal has registered highest number of cases between July 1 and July 29 — with 3,083 new cases, followed by Indore (2423 cases), Gwalior (1799 cases), and Morena (1147 cases). Another worrying trend is that 272 deaths or over 31% of the 844 Covid casualties in the state have been reported in 29 days of July. The recent spike in cases show that not only the hotspots — Indore and Bhopal — but newer districts are also in the grip of coronavirus. Meanwhile, 591 patients recovered from the deadly virus and were discharged from hospitals across the state. The total recoveries in the state is now 20, 934. To contain the spread of coronavirus in state, the administration of several districts has imposed total lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/917-fresh-infections-mp-tally-breaches-30k-mark/articleshow/77249014.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Nashik||No e-passes for Kolhapur entry/exit being issued yet||Kolhapur: The issuance of e-pass to enter and exit the district continues to be on hold since July 20 due to the increase in the number of Covid-19 cases.Before the seven-day lockdown started on July 20, district collector Daulat Desai had banned entry and exit for two weeks. Though the two-week period ended on Monday, there are no signs of the restrictions being lifted. When visited collectors office, no person or staff was available in the entry-exit cell.A senior district official requesting anonymity said, “Owing to the increase in the number of Covid cases in the district, the passes are not issued currently. It will start in a couple of days. Only those with daily passes issued by various departments for the regular travellers are allowed to enter and exit on a daily basis.”The number of passes issued for the daily travel is around 2,500 for government staff, bank employees and others. In the last couple of days, the respective authorities have stopped issuing daily passes for the new applicants, said the official.The district authorities have asked the local bodies to ensure every one coming from outside without pass should be quarantined. Desai had written to all the district collectors and police superintendents to not to issue the e-pass for the travellers wanting to visit Kolhapur for two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-e-passes-for-kolhapur-entry/exit-being-issued-yet/articleshow/77379096.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Aurangabad||Dist admin to conduct sero survey||Aurangabad: District collector Uday Chaudhary and civic chief Astik Kumar Pande on Wednesday informed that the administration has decided to carry out sero-survey in the second week of August to check the severity of Covid-19 and take appropriate measure to curb its spread. They have also urged to the people to cooperate with the teams that would visit them for the survey. Both the officials attended a meeting to discuss about sero survey. The meeting was also attended by zilla parishad CEO Mangesh Gondawale among other experts. The officials informed that the survey would be conducted on the lines of Delhi and three areas have been earmarked for the same, including Waluj-Bajajnagar Mahanagar, municipal corporation limit and rural parts. The survey would be conducted through random sampling and the samples would be studied at the Government Medical College and Hospital. “This (the survey) would help identify the impact of coronavirus in the district and would pave way for future action. Similar surveys have already been conducted in Parbhani, Beed and Nanded districts,” Chaudhary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/dist-admin-to-conduct-sero-survey/articleshow/77247571.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Kolkata||Digital divide impact on college, university e-classes||KOLKATA: Soumitra Patra, a final-year PG student of Jadavpur University’s chemistry department, has to step out of his home in Sibrampur village between Namkhana and Bakkhali in South 24 Parganas and walk to the busy street to attend online classes. That’s the only place where internet signal is strong enough to stream the lectures. “During the day, it is very noisy on the busy village road. I hardly get to hear anything. But I cannot request the professors to adjust their schedule according to my convenience,” said Patra, worried about the classes he is missing out. Several colleges and universities had to suspend live online classes after students from far-flung areas with poor connectivity complained that they were missing out on studies. At Jadavpur University, all the three faculties — humanities, science and engineering — are dependent on home assignments, projects and links to study materials that students can access at their convenience. JU physics professor Partha Pratim Ray said online classes were proving to be a challenge in universities as many students hailed from remote areas. “Many students come to JU from the Sunderbans and remote villages. Many of them don’t have access to smartphones on which live classes can be streamed,” said Ray. At Presidency University, the terminal semester examinations were conducted through home assignments and project works. At present, most departments are not hosting live streams. “Study material is being sent over WhatsApp or coursework are mailed to students, which can be downloaded and prepared as per their convenience. We have adopted an asynchronous learning system where modules have been prepared. When students require live interaction, they put up their request and teachers take them up in a group,” a teacher said. Lady Brabourne College principal Siuli Sarkar admitted that online classes could not be a substitute for classroom studies. But the college was holding live classes. “UG third-semester, fifth-semester and PG third-semester students are attending the online classes,” Sarkar said. Science teachers at colleges affiliated to Calcutta University were, however, worried about practicals. Many were clueless about how to host a class. “Many colleges have limited online teaching to occasional sharing of notes on WhatsApp and e-mails, or sending relevant links to students,” said a CU teacher. A VC added that the physically disabled students have been neglected the most. “They have to rely on classroom studies. Most of them do not have disabled-friendly keyboards or Braille infrastructure. The government should try to bridge this gap,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/digital-divide-impact-on-college-univ-e-classes/articleshow/77249019.cms||Somdatta Basu
July 30, 2020||Bhopal||MP: ICMR norms not followed, Covid re-test for ministers||BHOPAL: Some of the ministers and senior bureaucrats who underwent early Covid-19 test would once again be tested, according to sources. It includes some MP cabinet ministers. One minister went into home quarantine despite testing negative for Covid-19 infection. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) — in its revised strategy for coronavirus testing — states that asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case are to be tested once between day five and day 10 of coming in contact. In the case of close contacts of MP ministers, the test was conducted before five days. The health department and political bigwigs are now contemplating another Covid-19 test, after four more close contacts of a high-profile MP minister were diagnosed with the infection. Meanwhile, the BJP office has been converted into a containment zone, according to SDM Rajesh Gupta. As per ICMR guidelines, all hospitalised patients who develop symptoms for influenza-like illness (ILI) and frontline workers involved in containment and mitigation of Covid-19 should also be tested for coronavirus through the RT-PCR test. Besides, asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case are to be tested once between day 5 and day 10 of coming in contact, the new document stated. Asymptomatic contacts of a confirmed case were being tested once between day 5 and day 14. When contacted, CHMO Bhopal, Dr Prabhakar Tiwari, did not respond. It was on June 23 that the first of the recent MLAs tested positive for the infection. Three weeks later, MLA Arvind Bhadoria tested positive. Later, CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan was hospitalised after testing positive for the infection. In the last two days, four senior BJP leaders, including two ministers, have tested positive for the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/icmr-norms-not-followed-covid-re-test-for-ministers/articleshow/77249022.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Bhopal||2 IAS officers in CM, chief secy office test +ve||Bhopal: Two IAS officers have been tested corona positive in state secretariat in the past three days. On Wednesday, an IAS officer posted in CM secretariat tested Covid positive while on Sunday, an IAS posted in chief secretary’s office was found positive. The CM and CS offices are in same Vallabh Bhavan II building respectively on fifth and fourth floor. In all, seven IAS have been infected by the viral disease in Bhopal so far. Among the seven IAS officers tested corona positive, four were working in the health and related departments. In the health department, all the four officers were found corona positive within the first fortnight in the month of April. The fifth bureaucrat to be found corona positive in the state capital was in the urban administration and development department. He was tested positive for corona positive in the second half of June. In the state secretariat, 30 employees and officials have been found corona positive so far. Coronavirus has hit commercial taxes department, urban administration department, energy department, CM secretariat, health department, finance department, law department, medical education, home department, transport department, forest department and panchayat department. Of the Covid-infected officials, 22 are in the same VB II building which houses CM’s office and chief secretary office. The employees union has been demanding to seal the VB II building and shift its offices in VB I, apart from taking other precautions to control the pandemic in secretariat buildings from where the entire state is governed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/2-ias-officers-in-cm-chief-secy-office-test-ve/articleshow/77249030.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Finally, HP cabinet expansion today||Shimla: The much awaited cabinet expansion to fill three vacant berths will take place on Thursday. Nurpur MLA Rakesh Pathania, Paonta Sahib MLA Sukh Ram Chaudhary and Ghumarwin MLA Rajender Garg would be inducted into the cabinet. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur met governor Bandaru Dattaraya on Wednesday evening. Oath-taking ceremony will take place at Rajbhawan at 11.45am on Thursday, where seating arrangements have been made for 50 persons, considering the Covid-19 pandemic and to follow the social distancing norms. As select people would be invited for the oath taking ceremony, so government has made arrangements for the live webcast of ceremony for others at Hotel Peterhoff. Three rooms for the new ministers have been refurbished at the state Secretariat. Two cabinet berths have been lying vacant since the parliamentary election last year, while third seat fell vacant after then health minister Vipin Singh Parmar resigned to become speaker of the HP legislative assembly before the budget session in February this year. In the parliamentary election, BJP had fielded Dharamshala MLA and then food and civil supplies minister Kishan Kapoor from Kangra. He vacated the berth after winning the election with a record margin. Another seat fell vacant after then power minister Anil Sharma resigned before the parliamentary election, after Congress fielded his son Aashray from Mandi seat. In February, then speaker Rajeev Bindal was appointed as the party’s state president and Vipin Parmar, who was the health minister, was fielded in his place for the post of speaker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/finally-hp-cabinet-expansion-today/articleshow/77250190.cms||---
July 30, 2020||India||Kerala nurse killed in US, hubby held||NEW DELHI: The Kerala nurse who was killed on Tuesday outside the hospital in Florida, US, where she worked, was the victim of domestic violence and her husband was charged with first-degree murder. Merin Joy (28) from Kottayam was stabbed multiple times. Her husband, Philip Mathew, was traced from witnesses’ accounts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kerala-nurse-killed-in-us-hubby-held/articleshow/77252045.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Jaipur||Building map approval goes online||Jaipur: Residents of urban areas of the state can obtain their building map approval online. Urban Development and Housing (UDH) minister on Wednesday inaugurated the long-pending online building map application (module) . On this occasion, the minister issued permission to two applicants who had applied online for building layout plan at Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC).An official said both online and offline services would be available in urban bodies. “The online system will automatically check building approval application. The process can be completed in a short time. The fee will also be determined by the online system so that citizens will get the information about the entire fee while applying. Provision has also been made in the system for payment of fees online and offline by the applicants.” Once the application is received, the citizen will get the status of their application through e-mail and SMS and details will also be available on the system. “There will be transparency in the work by using the online system. Continuous monitoring can be to ensure completion of the work within stipulated period of time,” said an official. At present, the online building map application has been started as a pilot project at the JMC. The application in other municipal corporations will start from August 20 and will be fully operational by September 15. In the municipal councils and municipalities, it will begin by October 31. The project was first launched on June 8, 2016. However, many local bodies including that in Jaipur highlighted practical problems in implementing the online system. Thereafter, it was again launched on October 1, 2017 following directions from the then state government. But it could not become successful due to lack of political will.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/building-map-approval-goes-online/articleshow/77250207.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Nagpur||With 93.84%, Nagpur div witnesses record results in decade||Nagpur: Nagpur division, which used to have the dubious distinction of faring at the bottom among nine divisions, witnessed its best ever performance in a decade with 93.84% pass percentage in Maharashtra State Board’s standard 10 results declared on Wednesday. The division had an unprecedented jump of 26.57% in the success rate as compared to last year’s 67.27%. It helped in climbing three spots and at no. 6, Nagpur had left behind Nashik, Latur and Aurangabad divisions. For the last four years, Nagpur was performing badly among all divisions and was at the bottom of the ladder. Last time, it breached the 90% barrier considered as merit marks, was in 2015 with a success rate of 90.57%. In 2010, the division had scored 46.20%, which more than doubled this year, thanks to the lenient marking system adopted by the board. Among six districts in the division, Nagpur lost its top slot to Gondia having a success rate of 95.22% and emerged second at 94.66% followed by Bhandara at 94.41%. Like Std 12, Wardha remained at the bottom with 92.10% score in SSC results as well. Though all districts witnessed a surge in comparison to last year’s results, Gadchiroli’s jump is phenomenal at 38.04%. Last year, the Maoist-infested backward district finished last among six districts with 54.65 pass percentage, which shot to 92.69% this year, helping it to climb two spots. All six districts witnessed their best ever performance in a decade that helped the Nagpur division to improve its rankings. Divisional secretary Ravikant Deshpandne, having additional charge of Nagpur division chairman, attributed the success to training programmes organized for the schoolteachers for improvement in overall results. “We had also called on all principals to make efforts to improve results, as last year we performed badly as a team. Awarding 20 oral marks to the students led to the surge in pass percentage,” told TOI, stating that even the students performed brilliantly. In the backdrop of impressive results, the division also achieved its highest ever numbers of over 90% scorers in history. This year, as many as 4,723 candidates breached the 90% barrier, in comparison to just 1,385 last year and 3,688 in 2018. Even the schools scoring cent per cent results with all their students clearing the exams witnessed jump with 751 finding their names in the elite list as compared to 167 last year and 345 in 2018. From the division, about 87 cases of unfair means were reported during the exams held in March and April of which 86 were found guilty. During evaluation of answer sheets 67 more examinees were found to indulge in malpractices of which 43 were punished after their scrutiny. Over 1.61 lakh students had appeared for the exams from six districts of which 1.51 managed to clear it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-93-84-nagpur-div-witnesses-record-results-in-decade/articleshow/77250284.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 30, 2020||Chandigarh||Apple growers’ dues: SIT helps recover Rs 10cr from commission agents||Shimla: The special investigation team (SIT), formed to trace commission agents who had allegedly duped apple growers of the state, has so far succeeded in recovering Rs 10 crore from the agents and returning the same to farmers. In July itself, SIT has ensured return of Rs 45 lakh from commission agents to apple growers. Since the formation of SIT, 1,305 complaints had been received from farmers. Following home department’s directions, Himachal Pradesh DGP on May 4 last year had constituted the SIT to probe the cases of apple growers getting duped by commission agents. From time to time, the Himachal Pradesh high court too had taken cognizance of the matter and had issued directions to ensure payment of dues to apple growers. In 1,305 complaints received so far, 107 cases have been registered. At present, investigation in 475 complaints is in progress, police said. Issuing an advisory to the apple growers, state government has requested them to sell their produce to the registered and trusted commission agents only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/apple-growers-dues-sit-helps-recover-rs-10cr-from-commission-agents/articleshow/77250203.cms||---
July 30, 2020||Dehradun||In landslide-hit Pithoragarh villages, palanquins take patients to hosps||Pithoragarh: Residents of Pithoragarh villages are forced to use palanquins to take those in urgent need of medical attention to hospitals as the rural areas of the district have been cut off due to heavy rainfall making it difficult for the ambulance services to reach interior areas. Locals say that children, sick persons, and pregnant women are the worst affected. On Wednesday, 25-year-old Rakhi Devi, nine months pregnant, was carried to a hospital eight kilometers away from her native Chauna village of Bangapani tehsil in a makeshift palanquin after she started experiencing labour pain. In yet another such incident on the day, 80-year-old Kundan Singh was taken to a hospital in Madkot village after he complained of stomach ache. He had to be carried in a palanquin for 10 kilometres from his native Dunapani village. In Munsyari, Bangapani, and Darchula tehsils, landslides triggered due to rainfall have damaged many houses and the locals have taken shelter in government buildings. Many link roads have also been washed away.  Jauljibi–Munsyari road is blocked at many places due to landslides and bridges at Chami and Dhapuagad have been washed out by the rain spell, according to disaster management office, Pithoragarh. The local officials told TOI that more than 200 families have so far been shifted to safe places and relief, repair, and rescue works are ongoing to bring lives back to track in the district. In view of the issues, the local officials have demanded the state government to provide choppers so that those in need can be provided immediate help. It has been learnt that the choppers may be provided to the local administration in a day or two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-landslide-hit-pithoragarh-villages-palanquins-take-patients-to-hosps/articleshow/77247598.cms||Prem Punetha
July 30, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: New education policy gets a thumbs up from experts||BHOPAL: The Union Cabinet on Wednesday gave a green signal to the new national education policy (NEP) with an aim to introduce several changes in the education system - from school to college level. Educationists have generally welcomed the changes planned in the warp and weft of Indian education.  Educationists said, if implemented properly, NEP can bring about a major change in the entire education system of the country. However, they also cautioned that the changes must not be superfluous and reiterated that need of the hour is to overhaul the entire working process. Executive council member of Barkatullah University, Kishen Suryavanshi said that a major step promised in the NEP is to replace UGC and AICTE with a single higher education regulator. “This is a praiseworthy step. The government has done something, which will have a long-term positive impact,” said Suryavanshi. Students pursuing a four-year degree programme would now have an option of getting a degree with research if the research process is completed in the area of study as specified. Welcoming this step, Prof Akhilesh Sharma said, “This will give a big push to the research work in the country.” According to this policy, a National Research Foundation would be set up with a goal to enable a culture of research in India. NRF would be governed independently by a rotating board of governors. Primary task of NRF would be to fund competitive, peer reviewed grant proposals across all disciplines and also act as a liaison between researchers and relevant branches of government to allow breakthroughs. Regulatory system of higher education for accreditation, funding and academic standard setting will now come under the umbrella of the Higher Education Commission of India (HECI). “I hope the commission will give required impetus to education in the country. It is a good step,” said Prof Jagdish Rathi. He added that decision of forming Professional Standard Setting Bodies is also a welcome move. “I think the intentions while forming the education policy were good. However, the biggest challenge would be the implementation,” said Prof Rathi. As per the new education policy, 10+2 system will be replaced with a new 5+3+3+4 curricular structure, corresponding to ages 3-8, 8-11, 11-14, and 14-18 years. The NEP also mentions that schooling up to Class 5 will be in the mother tongue/ regional language of the students, and no language will be imposed on the students. Experts in MP have welcomed this initiative, as languages like Gondi, Bagheli, Bundelkhandi etc, which will get a boost now. Anjali Naronha, an educationist, said that focusing on multilingual education is a welcome move. “In India there are several regional languages and it will help children better understand the concepts if they are taught in their mother tongue. Teachers will also need to be trained in a way that they can teach in the mother tongues of the children," she said. While welcoming the idea to impart education in their mother tongues till Class 5, Sachin Jain, an educationist said that this initiative is still incomplete. “The idea to teach in regional languages should not be restricted till class 5. It is well known that several children struggle with language barriers and along with learning, they struggle to convey the content and despite having the knowledge, are unable to express themselves in other languages. This initiative should continue for higher education too,” said Jain. The new 5+3+3+4 curricular structure is also being appreciated . “The new system will help children in having better foundation. But along with changing the structure, we would also need to train teachers in a way specific to age-group and subjects,” said Naronha The NEP also mentions extension of Right to Education from 3 to 18 years. “I hope that along with the changes, teachers will also be given training as per the new structure so that the policy can be implemented properly. It is a good move that the NEP states that by 2030 minimum qualification for teachers will be a 4-year integrated B.Ed. degree," said Naronha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/new-education-policy-gets-a-thumbs-up-from-experts/articleshow/77249047.cms||Ramendra Singh
