July 31, 2020||Chennai||#CoronaInnovation: Poojas, festivals and vedic ceremonies move online||The COVID-19 pandemic has forced people, irrespective of age and belief system, to move online. While tech firms offering e-poojas is nothing new, namma Chennai has now gone virtual when it comes to conducting rituals and ceremonies, too. While several women in the city have opted for online sessions to celebrate Varalakshmi Nombu, priests have already been getting bookings to conduct Avani Avittam virtually next week. Vedic Ravi of Sri Bhuvaneswari Vedic Centre is among those who will be conducting these ceremonies over Zoom. He had earlier conducted Aadi amavasai tharpanam over the app. He says, “Due to the pandemic, people couldn’t assemble at one place for the tharpanam, which is of significance for Hindus on the new moon day in the month of Aadi. Hence, we thought of moving online. Traditionally, on Aadi amavasai, people gather at the banks of rivers or some other place of convenience and perform the tharpanam together. But this time, each one did it from the comfort of their homes, but without missing on the essence of the ritual. Apart from people in our city, we had 92 participants from across the globe as well.” Pushpa R, a techie, is excited that she can perform the nombu by taking cues virtually from a vaadhyar. “Since I am working from home, I can do the pooja peacefully at a time that’s convenient for me. This is the first time that I’ll be participating in a virtual pooja, and I’m looking forward to it,” she says. Ravi says 25 people have registered so far for the nombu with him. So, is there any fee? “No,” he says, “We insist on registration to get an idea of the number of participants and understand their requirements. This helps us decide the number of batches that will be required for the one-hour pooja, which we will conduct until noon. As far as dakshina is concerned, participants can pay whatever they like through netbanking or payment wallets. For the Aavani Avittam, which will be held on August 3 via Zoom, I’ve 70 registrations already.” Kannan, a temple priest, says he is planning to conduct the Aavani Avittam ceremony using Google Meet. “We can’t assemble in large groups, and it’s also not feasible for me to visit everyone’s houses to conduct the rituals. So, we felt virtual is the way forward now,” he says. Murali Srinivasan, a managing director of a company, couldn’t agree more. “Doing these poojas virtually saves a lot of time and energy. I feel we should have adapted to virtual ceremonies long ago. It’s great that irrespective of age, people can participate in the rituals with the help of technology,” he signs off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/coronainnovation-poojas-festivals-and-vedic-ceremonies-move-online/articleshow/77266504.cms||Sindhu Vijayakumar
July 31, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan reports biggest single-day spike of 1,156 Covid-19 cases||JAIPUR: The state on Thursday set a new record of biggest single-day spike of 1,156 cases. The state also reported 13 more Covid fatalities, taking its toll to 667. The state is witnessing its worst Covid-19 spike, uptill now, as it has reported more than 1,000 cases on the sixth day in a row. For the first time, five districts of the state reported more than 100 cases, including Alwar (193), Jodhpur (153), Jaipur (116), Kota (108) and Ajmer (107). Thursday was the day when the samples tested for Covid-19 crossed 15 lakh-mark. So far, 15,00,693 people have undergone Covid-19 test in the state. Out of those, 40,936 have been found infected with the virus. The positivity rate is 8.17 in the state. The figures show that 530 people out of every 1 million in the state have tested positive for Covid-19. Besides, for every 1 million of population in the state, 19,423 people had undergone Covid-19 test. However, the recovery rate in the state has improved slightly to 71.4%. Despite that the state has witnessed biggest single-day jump in Covid-19 cases, the growth rate has taken a dip from 3.3% to 3%. It has happened because the cases on Thursday increased marginally by 12 cases in comparison to the cases reported on Wednesday (1,142). Except three districts, rest of the 30 districts contributed to the biggest single-day spike in the state. Districts which reported new cases are Alwar (193), Jodhpur (153), Jaipur (116), Kota (108) and Ajmer (107), Bikaner (72), Bharatpur (70), Nagaur (51), Pali (48), Bhilwara (31), Barmer (29), Rajsamand (23), Sriganganagar (22), Chittorgarh (19), Jhalawar (18), Jaisalmer (17), Karauli (9), Sirohi (9), Tonk (7), Baran (7), Bundi (7), Jhunjhunu (6), Dungarpur (5), Churu (5), Banswara (5), Sawai Madhopur (5), Dausa (4), Dholpur (4), Udaipur (4) and Hanumangarh (2). Sawai Madhopur reported its 12th fatality, Nagaur reported two deaths taking its casualties to 25, Jaipur reported its 184th death, Bikaner reported two fatalities taking its toll to 38 and three people died in Ajmer taking its toll to 41. Jodhpur reported two deaths taking its toll to 83 and Barmer reported its 11th fatality. Sixteenth Covid-19 death happened in Alwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajasthan-reports-biggest-single-day-spike-of-1156-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77270966.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
July 31, 2020||Business||PM Narendra Modi meets financial regulators; discusses measures to revive Covid-hit economy||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday held a brainstorming session with financial sector regulators and discussed various measures to revive the economy hit hard by Covid-19 crisis. According to sources, the meeting discussed various steps that regulators, especially the Reserve Bank of India, can take to push economic growth staring at the risk of contraction. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das, Sebi chairman Ajay Tyagi, Irdai chairman S C Khuntia and PFRDA chairman Supratim Bandyopadhyay were in the meeting, which saw presence of finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, road transport minister Nitin Gadkari, and commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal, among others. Besides, senior government officials attended the virtual three-hour long meeting. The economy is expected to contract by 4.5 per cent during the current fiscal, as per the IMF latest projection. The meeting also discussed preparedness to deal with the post-Covid world and regulatory measures to help achieve the objective of Atmanirbhar Bharat. It is to be noted that the RBI since February took various measures, including liquidity infusion and moderation of interest rate to record low in its bid to maintain financial stability and support growth. Nearly 40 per cent of Rs 20.97 lakh crore economic package comprised of several liquidity measures undertaken by the RBI. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) eased the monetary policy, reduced reserve requirements and introduced liquidity in the economy to the extent of almost 3.9 per cent of GDP. Besides, Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi), Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Irdai) and Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority also took measures to provide relief to industry and individuals. The challenges before the regulators during the post-Covid world also came up for discussion, the sources said. The meeting also came at a time when the government is considering another round of fiscal stimulus to boost demand in the economy. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) on Wednesday said India has space for both fiscal and monetary measures, but it needs to quickly contain the spread of Covid-19 to make economic recovery sustainable. IMF also said while monetising fiscal deficit may be inevitable, India should chart a credible fiscal consolidation roadmap to ensure regulatory independence. Emphasising on the crucial role of the financial sector in supporting the economy, PM Modi on Wednesday asked bankers to relook at their practices to ensure stable credit growth and not to turn down bankable proposals on apprehensions of prospective bad loans. During a three-hour long virtual meeting with CEOs of large public and private sector banks along with heads of non-banking financial companies (NBFCs), the Prime Minister assured them that the government is ready to take all steps to support the financial sector. PM Modi exhorted bankers to motivate small entrepreneurs, self-help groups and farmers to use institutional credit in order to grow. "Each bank needs to introspect and take a relook at its practices to ensure stable credit growth. Banks should not treat all proposals with the same yardstick and need to distinguish and identify bankable proposals and to ensure that these don't suffer in the name of past NPAs," he had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pm-narendra-modi-meets-financial-regulators-discusses-measures-to-revive-covid-hit-economy/articleshow/77271131.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Business||In pre-pandemic 2019, Indians had become the fourth highest foreign visitor spenders in the US||NEW DELHI: Indian visitors to the US were the fourth largest foreign spenders there last year, up one spot they shared with the Japanese in 2018. Almost 15 lakh Indians visited the US in 2019, up 7% from 13.8 lakh in the previous year, and spent $16.5 billion, up 4.4% from $15.8 billion earlier. In terms of source country for foreign visitors to US, India remained at number 10, according to latest data released by the US department of commerce’s National Travel and Tourism Office (NTTO). A majority of the Indian visitors (37.2%) to the US in 2019 had business as the "main purpose of the trip"; followed by visiting friend and relatives at 26.7%; holidayers at 15.7% and remaining for other purposes like conventions and studies. While the pre-pandemic 2019 now seems a distant past, the US forecasts Indians will be the fastest growing foreign visitors for the next few years. In percentage growth terms, NTTO’s "forecast of international travellers to the US by top origin countries" for the 2018-2024 period shows Indian visitors with the highest growth rate at 5.3% increasing from 13.7 lakh in 2018 to an expected 18.8 lakh in 2024. Among top foreign spenders in 2018, Indians and Japanese had shared the fifth spot at $15.8 billion each in 2018. Last year, Indians ($16.5 billion) jumped to the fourth spot by overtaking visitors spend from UK ($16.3 billion). The Chinese ($33.5 billion), Canadian ($22.6 billion) and Mexican ($20.2 billion) visitors were the top three spenders last year, keeping this ranking unchanged from 2018, according to latest NTTO data. NTTO forecasts India will remain at the 10th spot as source country for foreign visitors to the US till 2024. Canada and Mexico, with who America shares land border, will volume-wise remain the top two source markets for foreign visitors. The top 8 overseas markets are: UK, Japan, China, South Korea, Brazil, Germany, France and India. India visitors’ 5.3% growth in the NTTO’s 2018-2024 forecast is followed by France at 3.5% and Colombia and Taiwan at 3.5% each. In 2019 the US had received 7.93 crore foreign visitors, down 0.6% from 7.97 crore in the previous year. While Canada and Mexicos account for almost half of the international visitors, the overseas ones were topped in 2019 by UK (48 lakh), Japan (38 lakh) and India at number 10 with 15 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/in-pre-pandemic-2019-indians-had-become-the-fourth-highest-foreign-visitor-spenders-in-the-us/articleshow/77271638.cms||Saurabh Sinha
July 31, 2020||Chandigarh||When excerpt from freedom fighter’s letter was enough to evoke UAPA||JALANDHAR: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal now might be cautioning Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and Punjab Police against "indiscriminate use" of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in Punjab, but during SAD-BJP regime, the state police had used historic literature as evidence to book three Sikh youths under the stringent law for "waging war against the state". Among such "evidence" was a paragraph from a letter written from prison by noted freedom fighter and Sikh spiritual leader Bhai Randhir Singh in 1926; a poem written by Bhai Fauja Singh, who was among the 13 Sikhs killed in Nirankari-Sikh clash on April 13, 1978; and pictures of those 13 Sikhs. In May 2016, then additional chief secretary, home, had given sanction for the prosecution of three Sikh men — Arwinder Singh (29), Surjit Singh (27) and Ranjit Singh (29) — under UAPA. But a Nawanshahr-based court found it invalid even as it convicted the three men under sections 121 and 121a of IPC – for waging or attempting to wage war against Government of India — and sentenced them to life imprisonment. According to Punjab and Haryana high court advocate Rawinder Singh Bains, who is now pursuing their appeal in the high court, it was the first case in which accused were convicted and sentenced for waging war against the state (or attempting it) on the basis of books, literature, pamphlets and without any recovery of arms or any act of violence. In 1926, lodged in Nagpur jail, Bhai Randhir Singh, wrote a letter in Punjabi on his political views in the light of Sikh philosophy. A paragraph in that letter reads: "We shall not be subservient to the unjust rule, and in a just rule we shall not indulge in ‘Raaj-Gardi (state-repression)'. But in a rule in which power-drunk violate our religious practices using state powers, we shall uproot that Raaj (ruling establishment) with the support of God." The letter is part of his book Jail Chithhian (Letters from Prison) first published in 1936, which remains his widely known work, among his over 20 other books, with several reprints and is freely available. This paragraph printed on a pamphlet along with his picture, became Khalistan ‘Shabdavali (wording)' and incriminating material for Punjab Police to book the three under UAPA. As the Nawanshahr court convicted and sentenced the trio to life imprisonment in the beginning of 2018, it also mentioned "Bhai Randhir Singh's Khalistan Shabdavali" while referring to the paragraph on the pamphlet as incriminating material along with some other printed material, including a poem written by Bhai Fauja Singh. Incidentally, Bhai Fauja Singh and 12 other Sikhs were killed during Badal's second term as chief minister and Nirankari chief and others had faced trial for the mass murder. The police and the court had particularly found wording Band Band Katwauna (to sacrifice oneself limb by limb) in Fauja Singh's poem as provocative. These words are also part of Sikh ardaas and are recited frequently irrespective of the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/when-excerpt-from-freedom-fighters-letter-was-enough-to-evoke-uapa/articleshow/77271724.cms||IP Singh
July 31, 2020||Chandigarh||UAPA accused NRI Sikh granted bail||KAPURTHALA: NRI Joginder Singh Gujjar (65), a resident of Akala village near Bholath, who had come from Italy in February this year and was arrested on July 2 under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for alleged links with Sikhs For Justice, a banned outfit, has been granted bail by a Kapurthala court. However, he is yet to be released for want of completion of legal formalities. Granting him bail on Thursday, additional sessions judge Rajwinder Kaur ordered that Gujjar deposit his passport and furnish a bail bond of Rs 2 lakh. The court also placed restrictions on his movement, saying his bail would be cancelled in case he violates the conditions. Gujjar's counsel had pleaded that he was a heart patient with stents and faced high medical risk in jail due to pandemic. His family said they would meet the conditions laid down by the court on Friday. Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira had been raising Gujjar's case very strongly and even visited his house on July 5. He had alleged that it was a clear case of misuse of UAPA and that Gujjar had been framed. FIR against Gujjar was registered at Bholath police station on the basis of "reliable inputs" and SFJ legal adviser Gurpatnwat Singh Pannun's name was also included in it. The case was registered under sections 10 (a) & (b), 11, 13 (1) and 17 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. A press release issued by the Punjab Police on July 2 immediately after his arrest had stated: "Joginder Singh Gujjar, at the behest of Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, with whom he is in regular contact for promoting the activities of SFJ, was reportedly providing financial assistance to SFJ operatives/activists based in Punjab/India and abroad. It has also came to light that Joginder Singh Gujjar alias Goga had visited Geneva, Switzerland, in November 2019, to attend and actively participate in the anti-India convention organised by SFJ."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/uapa-accused-nri-sikh-granted-bail/articleshow/77271726.cms||IP Singh
July 31, 2020||India||They delivered fresh veggies, fish at doorsteps as Mumbai halted||MUMBAI: Gyanendra Jha sounds almost happy to report that he has been sleep deprived since May 4. Every night, his eyes shut like clockwork at 11pm and open at 1 am when he must step out of his Thane warehouse full of sorted vegetables and fruits and head for the APMC market. There, Jha must negotiate his way through the fresh nocturnal haul of greens, reds and oranges, avoid the sliced pumpkins that have been touched by vendors while cutting, sometimes make a bid for auctioned hot items such as litchis and return by 8 am to help his staff make close to 200 deliveries in locked down and virus-gripped Thane. Jha is the COO of Bhajiwala.com, a five-year-old vegetables and fruits delivery service that shut shop last year when tomatoes started selling at Rs 100 per kg and reopened recently in May after various old clients in Thane started hounding him with desperate requests during lockdown. Heavy demand has robbed the Kalyan resident of sleep, seen him holed up with 15 other calcium-and-vitamin-C-popping men in a borrowed warehouse, had him double up as delivery man at times and got him pining for his one-and-a-half-year-old son Aayansh. Still, Jha does not utter a word of complaint. "I know what joblessness feels like. I've been there for a year. So, I'm more than happy to be busy," says Jha, who is proud of not only paying all his employees full salaries at a time when others aren't able to but also that his thriving business just got its own app. Besides sabziwalas who now confidently negotiate tomato prices in endearing English over WhatsApp, metros are awash in a deluge of fledgling delivery firms that are competing with bigger e-commerce players by bringing a variety of "quality" perishables within hours of ordering during lockdown. From Baba vegetables in Khar to Fishappy in Delhi, the surge in demand for home deliveries of perishables has seen many vendors grow technologically savvy to survive and thrive during the crisis. Read more from this seriesThe Fresh Press (TFP), a startup that sold fresh juices, realised they had an opportunity to diversify when the lockdown was put in place. "We have reliable sources for procuring fruits and decided to go one step further and start selling them. Initially, we were not sure of getting a great response as there are already several players in the market who are delivering fruits. But we have an edge over others. Not only do we have a greater variety-- about 28 to 30 fruits and dry fruits-- on the menu but better quality and at lower prices," says Rahul Jain, founder of TFP. The startup joined hands with some housing societies in North Mumbai and put up stalls on their premises. "We give our customers a product guarantee. If any of our fruits have perished, the customer can get a replacement at no extra cost," says Jain. In three months, business has done so well that the startup is going to rope in a Bollywood actor to be their brand ambassador and will start marketing online. There have been challenges though. "Packing material was not always available and since multiple orders had to be delivered during a single trip, we had to ensure heavy fruits like melons were not placed on top of smaller ones like Kiwis," recalls Jain. Like TFP, Charkop-based Mahesh Gawde's doorstep fish delivery service, too, operates completely over WhatsApp. A member of the All India Game Fishing Association (AIGFA), Gawde has been engaged in fishing as a hobby for a decade. But he took up fish selling as a full time occupation only after work at a firm where he worked as a digital imaging technician dried up. Now, his fish business is doing so well that Gawde is looking for a successor to take over, once lockdown ends and he goes back to work at the firm again. "I did not have much capital investment to start off but knew where the best fish could be sourced from," he said. Gawde's day starts at 3am as he heads to Madh Marve on his scooter. He buys fish in auctions conducted by fishermen's associations. By 6am, he is back home and starts stocking the fish in ice. "If the prawns aren't chilled enough, they turn black and fetch less money," Gawde said. He sends across a list of available stock to customers over WhatsApp. The fish is then packed as per orders and delivered to the customer's doorstep. The only hitch he has faced is being stopped repeatedly in police nakabandis. "I don't have an epass that essential service providers during the lockdown possess. But the cops have been understanding so far and haven't charged me," he said. From 25 customers initially, Gawde has gone up to 150 in three months and sometimes finds it tough to handle everything alone. But his loyal customer base-- they start calling up if there is a slight delay in sending messages about the day's stock-- drive him to keep going. The lockdown also spurred some startups to venture into untapped territory. Parthaa Kundu, founder of Delhi-based Fishappy, had a majority of his clientele in Gurgaon pre-lockdown. But with Delhi's borders getting sealed once Covid-19 started to spread, Kundu had to look for new clientele inside the capital. "What worked for us was that families grounded at home preferred ordering raw food products and cooking them, rather than ordering pre-cooked meals. People were also concerned about COVID-19 infections if they stepped out of home. So even those living a stone's throw away from the fish market preferred my delivery service," says Kundu, who first collects orders from customers online, before conveying it to his network of verified vendors from whom he sources fish. His small team of employees then go over to collect the fish, pack them and deliver orders. "Advertising is only through word of mouth. I have understood people's tastes and business has gone up by about 80%," says Kundu. While it may take long for Mumbai's flesh-and-blood fish and vegetable markets hobble back to their days of noisy, sprawling offline glory, Jha of bhajiwala.com--who finds himself politely telling customers that he does not deliver chicken and mutton--does not think the days of offline buying are over. "Many women have an emotional connect with the local sabziwala," says Jha. "They like to touch and feel vegetables before buying." (This story is part of a series in association with Facebook. Facebook has no editorial role in this story)Watch They delivered fresh veggies, fish at doorsteps as Mumbai halted||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/they-delivered-fresh-veggies-fish-at-doorsteps-as-mumbai-halted/articleshow/77267329.cms||Nitasha Natu
July 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh case count crosses 1,000-mark as 38 contract the virus||CHANDIGARH: As many as 38 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Chandigarh on Thursday. With this, the UT caseload has crossed the 1,000-mark to settle at 1,016.Of these, six cases are from Manimajra; four each from Dhanas and Sector 40; three from Sector 46; two each from Kishangarh, PGI and Sector 26 and one each from sectors 10, 11, 12, 15, 25, 33, 38, 39, 48, 52, Dhanas, Burail, Khuda Lahora, Khuda Jassu, and Mauli Jagran.Chandigarh has 355 active cases and 647 have been cured. The disease has claimed 14 lives so far.Meanwhile, three more constables, including two women, of the UT police tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. So far, eight UT cops have contracted the virus. The samples of four other constables have been sent for testing and their reports are awaited.All the three cops were deployed at Recruit Training Centre (RTC) in Sector 26. They have been admitted to GMH-16 and their condition is stable. They were living in the same training centre and developed infection when one of them tested positive for corona. Police department has sanitised the training centre. Their four immediate contacts have also developed symptoms.Earlier, inspector Dilbag Singh, posted at police headquarters in Sector 9, had tested positive on July 16 and was admitted to GMH-16. Constable Pardeep Kumar was admitted to the same hospital on July 14. The constable was posted at the police post on the Panjab University (PU) campus. The first corona case in the police department was reported on May 12, when woman constable Suman tested positive. Now, she has joined duty after recovery. She got infected while on duty at the grain market in Sector 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-case-count-crosses-1000-mark-as-38-contract-the-virus/articleshow/77271890.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
July 31, 2020||India||20 years on, Jaya Jaitly, retired General get 4 years jail for graft||NEW DELHI: A special CBI court sentenced Jaya Jaitly, a close associate of former defence minister George Fernandes, and Major General S P Murgai (retired) for four years for seeking to influence defence purchases during the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led NDA government for monetary gains. Gopal Pacherwal, a political colleague of Jaitly, was also given a four-year jail term in what is known as the Tehelka sting case of 2001, which forced Fernandes to quit as defence minister and caused embarrassment to the Vajpayee government and the BJP. The judgment marked a huge setback to Jaitly, known for her pioneering work in promoting handicrafts through her Dastkari Haat Samiti and setting up Dilli Haat. However, she narrowly escaped being sent to prison, with the Delhi high court admitting her appeal against the trial court verdict and suspending her sentence. The respite from the HC came just before 5 pm when she was set to be sent to jail. Jaitly is the second influential person to have been scalped by the Tehelka sting or ‘Operation Westend’. Late Bangaru Lakshman, the then BJP chief, was also “stung” taking money from journalists of the news portal, who had approached him. Jaitly, others acted for petty gains: Special CBI judgeLate Bangaru Lakshman was also “stung” taking money from journalists of the news portal, who had approached him, Jaya Jaitly and others posing as representatives of a company dealing in defence supplies. BJP sacked Bangaru, who was later convicted in a separate case arising from the sting operation. Jaitly was the president of Samata Party, as JD(U) was known in its previous incarnation. Pacherwal was a senior-office bearer of the party at the time of the sting. Jaitly was accused of conspiring with Pacherwal and Maj Gen Murgai to assist a fictitious firm, Westend International, in pushing hand-held thermal imagers to the Indian Army. A businessman named Surender Kumar Surekha, booked as an accused, eventually turned approver in the case. The special CBI court had on July 21 convicted Jaitly, Pacherwal and Murgai under Section 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC and Section 9 (taking gratification for exercise of personal influence with public servant) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. Special CBI judge Virender Bhat said the convicts had acted for “petty gains” and sought to assist an unknown, fictitious firm while awarding punishment on Thursday. Watch TOI Daily: 20 years on, Jaya Jaitly, retired General get 4 years jail for graft||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/20-years-on-jaya-jaitly-retired-general-get-4-years-jail-for-graft/articleshow/77272564.cms||Abhinav Garg
July 31, 2020||India||Disengagement is incomplete, India tells China||NEW DELHI: After China claimed earlier this week that disengagement along the LAC had been completed at most locations, the government on Thursday said while there had been some progress, the process had “as yet not been completed”. Responding to queries on remarks by the Chinese foreign ministry, the ministry of external affairs said senior commanders of the two sides will meet in the near future to work out steps for further disengagement. Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said the government expected China to sincerely work with India for complete disengagement and de-escalation at the earliest as agreed to by special representatives Ajit Doval and Wang Yi. Peace at border is the basis of our ties with China: India As we have stated earlier, the maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the border areas is the basis of our bilateral relationship,” said the official. Disengagement, according to sources, has been far from complete at least in the Pangong Tso and Depsang areas from where the Chinese troops are apparently reluctant to move back. This was one of the main reasons why India, in the last round of diplomatic talks, had insisted on early and complete disengagement. “As border troops have disengaged in most localities, the situation on the ground is de-escalating and the temperature is coming down,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin had said in Beijing. The Chinese media too has been suggesting that, barring Pangong, disengagement has been completed in areas like Galwan, Hot Springs and Kongka Pass. Watch Disengagement along LAC is incomplete, India categorically tells China||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/disengagement-is-incomplete-india-tells-china/articleshow/77272783.cms||---
July 31, 2020||India||Isro will allow private sector to set up own launchpad at Sriharikota: K Sivan||NEW DELHI: Kicking off the process of "unlocking" the space sector, Indian space research organisation (Isro) will allow the "private sector to set up their own launchpad at the Sriharikota launch centre" (SHAR). Talking to TOI, Isro chairman K Sivan said, "The space agency has started the process of involving the private sector in space activities. We will allow the private entities to set up their own launch facility at Sriharikota that they can use for launching their spacecraft or rocket. We won’t charge anything for such launches. Instead, we will provide them all the expertise they need from us for setting up such facilities." Currently, Isro has two launchpads and two rocket assembly buildings at Sriharikota. He said that Isro is also ready to share its expertise for free with the private sector in areas where monetary support is not involved like providing technical support. "Department of space is in the process of setting up Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre (IN-SPACe) (which is being set up to promote, hand-hold, monitor and supervise space activities by the private sector). But we don’t want the industry to wait till it is set up. If private entities are interested, they can apply for it (using Isro’s space assets) now itself. Though most centres of Isro are either closed or working with skeletal staff because of Covid-related restrictions in different states, we want to start at least the consultation process of involving the private sector in space activities based on their requirement. At least, we can get to know about their requirement," Sivan told TOI. On the launch of satellites this year, Sivan said as some key Isro centres like Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre and Liquid Propulsion Systems Centre in Thiruvananthapuram are closed due to Covid-19, it is very difficult to carry out satellite launches with such restrictions. However, he did not rule out satellite launches this year, saying "it all depends upon the situation in coming months". Following the recent Cabinet decision to open up the space sector for all, Isro will involve non-government private entities (NGPEs) in the production of components and subsystems of a launch vehicle, launch vehicle integration, production of components of a spacecraft, spacecraft integration and testing. It will also rope them in for providing space-based services, including operation, control and station-keeping of spacecraft by establishing and operation of ground segment or stations. NGPEs can also provide help in development of space-based applications using satellite data and rolling out of commercial services, says a statement from the agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/isro-will-allow-private-sector-to-set-up-own-launchpad-at-sriharikota-k-sivan/articleshow/77272875.cms||Surendra Singh
July 31, 2020||India||Herd immunity not an option for India: Government||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Thursday said herd immunity cannot be a strategic choice or option for a country of India’s size as this would come at a huge cost in terms of lakhs of infected people and many deaths. Following social norms till a vaccine comes is the only viable option, it said. "In a country the size of (and with) a population like India, herd immunity can’t be a strategic choice or option," the health ministry OSD said. Herd immunity is ‘still far away and in the future’: GovernmentIn a country the size of (and with) a population like India, herd immunity cannot be a strategic choice or option. It can only be an outcome, and that too at a very high cost, as it means lakhs of people would have to be infected, get hospitalised and many would die in the process,” officer on special duty in health ministry Rajesh Bhushan said. The comments come in the wake of rising number of cases and arguments being advanced by some researchers that there may be hope of developing a herd immunity soon based on results of sero surveys and the overall low infection rates in India. The health ministry, however, said herd immunity is “still far away and in the future”, while emphasising that adopting a “Covid- appropriate behaviour” is the only option till a vaccine is developed. “For now, we have to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour like wearing masks, avoiding gatherings, following hand hygiene and maintaining a distance of two yards,” he said. Watch Herd immunity cannot be a strategic choice or option for India, says Centre||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/herd-immunity-not-an-option-for-india-government/articleshow/77272909.cms||Sushmi Dey
July 31, 2020||India||House session has raised prices: Rajasthan CM||JAIPUR: In a fresh tirade loaded with bombshells and allusions, Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot on Thursday claimed that the announcement of a special assembly sessionfrom August 14 had overnight jacked up the “prices” being allegedly offered to switch loyalties “from Rs 25 crore each” to “unlimited” cash. “After the governor declared the date on Wednesday, phones started ringing with fresh offers. I don’t know how many have received the first instalment, but those who haven’t should return (home),” Gehlot told reporters in a thinly veiled reference to the MLAs siding with his sacked deputy Sachin Pilot. Without directly naming the party or individual allegedly throwing cash to buy the dissident MLAs, Gehlot said after a CLP meeting that he had information about an initial payment of Rs 10 crore each and a still-to-be-paid second tranche of Rs 15 crore. Path to reconciliation just a discussion away: GehlotJaipur: “The offer is now unlimited. And we all know who is behind this horse-trading of MLAs.” On Pilot and Co staying away from yet another CLP meeting, Gehlot said, “Some of our MLAs are not returning (from Manesar in Haryana). May god grant them wisdom.” The CM, however, reiterated that the path to reconciliation was just a discussion away, following up on his remark at a PCC event on Wednesday that all would be forgiven if the dissidents apologised to the high command. “If they have any grievance, they should have gone to the AICC or the PCC, but they are sitting there (in Manesar). They should come for the meetings, now that we have even called the assembly. They have been elected on the Congress symbol — so it is their duty to be seen standing with the government. Why are they playing on BJP's lap?” Gehlot said the dissidents could face disqualification under the anti-defection law even if they didn't join BJP, referring to Pilot's assertion that he wasn't joining the saffron party. “Some people say they will not join BJP. If you are not going to BJP but forming a third front or indulging in conspiracies, it means you are voluntarily quitting your party,” the CM said. While Gehlot didn't take names when alleging that crores of rupees were being offered to MLAs to switch sides, Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat again cropped up as he accused BJP of conspiring to topple elected governments. “People have been following PM Narendra Modi, but his men, including Shekhawat, are conspiring to topple governments.” Gehlot said. “Shekhawat is yet to resign, while under the UPA-II, ministers who faced allegations promptly stepped down. At a time when WHO has warned about Covid-19 spreading even more, the priority should be to save lives and not topple governments.” The CM alleged that the “delay” in convening the special assembly session was part of the horse-trading conspiracy. Tearing into BSP chief Mayawati for accusing him of “stabbing my party in the back” by luring away her six MLAs in Rajasthan, Gehlot said even she was acting at the behest of BJP. “If BJP takes away four TDP MPs in the Rajya Sabha overnight, it is justified. But if six MLAs in Rajasthan merge with Congress, it is unjustified? Mayawati fears BJP; so she is making such statements.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/house-session-has-raised-prices-rajasthan-cm/articleshow/77273009.cms||Bhanu Pratap Singh
July 31, 2020||Lucknow||Bikru massacre: UP CM Yogi Adityanath meets kin of slain cops, assures aid and security||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath met the families of two slain cops of the Bikru massacre on Thursday. He spent about half an hour with the families of circle officer Devendra Mishra and station officer Mukesh Kumar Yadav. The CM assured the families of all possible help from the government. Earlier, the government had announced a compensation of Rs 1 crore for the family of Mishra, along with free education for his children and a job for one member of the family. Mishra, along with seven cops, was killed when they were ambushed by the gangster Vikas Dubey and his men in Chaubeypur village on July 2. Dubey was arrested a week later from Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh and later killed in an encounter when he was being brought back to Kanpur. After their meeting with Yogi, Mishra’s brother in-law Kamalkant Dubey said that the CM has promised to provide security for the family and assistance for the education of Mishra’s two daughters. “The CM told the girls that he couldn’t bring back their father but they should not think that they do not have a father and if they ever need anything, they can reach out to him. Our only worry was that there is no male left in the family and we cannot look after them all the time. The CM reacted to our request immediately and we are grateful to him for that,” Dubey said. He added that the CM also asked the elder daughter, who wants to join the police force, to contact them after taking her exam. Kamalkant Dubey said that they had received a message that the CM wanted to meet them on Wednesday night and the police had made the arrangements for them to travel to Lucknow. “He asked us how the family had been doing and whether we have received the assistance that he had announced. We informed him that the matters for pension etc., are being processed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bikru-massacre-cm-yogi-meets-kin-of-slain-cops-assures-aid-security/articleshow/77272598.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Patna||Three more doctors die, Bihar Covid-19 tally rises to 48,000||PATNA: Three more coronavirus infected doctors died on Thursday at AIIMS-Patna, taking the death toll of doctors to 12 in Bihar. Five Patna residents, too, died of Covid-19 on Thursday. The state health department reported 12 official deaths, taking the toll to 285 so far. On a day the state ramped up its testing to 20,000 samples, as directed by CM Nitish Kumar, the total coronavirus case count reached 48,001 with 2,082 new cases reported on Thursday. And with 31,673 recoveries, active cases stand at 16,041. State capital Patna saw the maximum Covid-19 cases registered on Thursday with 410 people testing positive. The tally for Patna has now reached 8,229. But with 4,846 recoveries and 41 official deaths, active cases in Patna stand at 3,342. Despite the number of tests being conducted per day increasing in the past few days, the state is witnessing a minor dip in the number of new coronavirus cases, hinting at a slight fall in the positivity rate. As per the official health department data, four deaths were reported from Bhojpur, three from Rohtas and one death each from Munger, Jehanabad, West Champaran, East Champaran and Vaishali. Altogether seven deaths were reported from AIIMS-Patna on Thursday, including three Patna residents, informed hospital’s Covid-19 in charge Dr Sanjeev Kumar. He said one of the doctors who died on Thursday, Dr Nagendra, was admitted on Wednesday in a critical condition. He was a government doctor posted in East Champaran. Dr Sanjeev further said they also had two such cases of couples in which one partner died on Thursday, while another recovered and was discharged on the same day. “While both the female partners have recovered on Thursday, their husbands died today,” said Dr Sanjeev. Other two doctors who died due to Covid-19 include Jehanabad-based Dr K Rajan and retired Army Major Dr AK Singh. State IMA senior vice-president Dr Ajay Kumar said the deaths of doctors will not stop unless the government provides them with safety gear. “It is our request to the state government to provide better quality PPE kits and other safety gears. At present the PPE kit given to government doctors is of low quality,” alleged Dr Ajay. The NMCH reported three deaths on Thursday, including two Patna residents. “One was a 59-year-old man of Gurhatta in Patna city and another was an 84-year-old Indrapuri resident. Both died of cardiac arrest,” said Dr Mukul. He further informed that the third deceased was from Vaishali and had a medical history of hypertension, TB and asthma. Other districts which reported large number of cases include East Champaran (140), Nalanda 9137, Rohtas (105), Bhagalpur (96), Saran (79), Bhojpur (76), Begusarai (72) and Vaishali (71). The department further stated that 1,169 people had recovered in 24 hours and with total recoveries reaching 31,673, the recovery rate stands at 65.98% as on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/3-more-doctors-die-bihar-covid-tally-rises-to-48000/articleshow/77269042.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 31, 2020||Patna||SuMo: Rs 3,540cr spenton migrants in state||Deputy CM Sushil Kumar said in a webinar organised by ASSOCHAM on Thursday that Rs 3,540 crore was spent on returnee migrant workers in Bihar under ‘Gareeb Kalyan Rozgar Yojna’ launched by PM Narendra Modi. He said each district has been given Rs 50 lakh under ‘district innovation scheme’ for providing jobs to migrant workers. Altogether 10,053 migrant workers have been provided jobs in 266 skill clusters, he added. DM reviews flood damage: West Champaran DM Kundan Kumar on Thursday held a flood review meeting with officers of district disaster management, water resources, and public works department. The floods of hilly rivers have damaged many roads, culverts and bridges across the district at 109 points and restoration works are underway on a war footing, officials said. Cash, valuables worth Rs 13 lakh stolen: Thieves decamped with jewellery worth Rs 12 lakh, four cellphones, including two iPhones, a watch worth Rs 28,000 and Rs 6,800 in cash from the residence of one Manish Kumar Singh near Dumdum Park under the Shri Krishnapuri PS area in state capital on Wednesday. SK Puri SHO Neeraj Kumar Singh said that Manish works in a telecom firm and he along with his family members were inside the house when the theft took place on the wee hours of Wednesday. No arrest in murder case: Police are yet to arrest anyone in connection with the murder of one Arun Rai (28), who was shot dead near Charpolwa under the Ramkrishna Nagar police station area on Wednesday night. He had died during treatment at a hospital after midnight. SHO Manoj Kumar Singh said two persons including one Rahul Kumar had been made named accused in FIR lodged in connection with Arun’s murder. He said Arun was killed due to some financial dispute. The slain youth was the son of a property dealer and lived in Ramkrishna Nagar locality only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sumo-rs-3540cr-spenton-migrants-in-state/articleshow/77268987.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 31, 2020||Patna||Six cops hurt in Sitamarhi attack||PATNA: Six police personnel, including an inspector and three women constables, were injured after irate villagers thrashed them and pelted stone in Basotara village under the Choraut police station area in Sitamarhi district on Wednesday. A police vehicle was also damaged in the incident. Choraut police station SHO Ram Vinay Paswan said circle inspector Vijay Kumar, sub-inspectors Rajesh Kumar Chatterjee and Ajeet Kumar and three female constables Shalu Kumari, Pooja Kumari and Laxmi Kumari had received injuries in attack. Police had gone to the village to investigate a case where more than 700 villagers allegedly lost money from their bank accounts after they gave their thumb impression and Aadhaar number to co-villager Akhilesh Yadav to get free soaps and sanitizers almost a month back. Pupri SDPO Sanjay Pandey said police also raided Akhilesh’s residence but was evading arrest. “It is suspected that Akhilesh had connived with brother-in-law who runs a customer service point of a bank to make withdrawals via CSP. Police have asked the villagers to share bank details which is yet to be provided,” the SDPO said. “Miscreants spread rumours that police have set Yadav free after taking money. This rumour led to an attack on the police team. They were rescued after additional reinforcement was sent,” Pandey said. “A panchayat-level meeting also took place in the village after they realised that money was withdrawn from accounts only after they gave thumb impression to Yadav. Though Yadav had promised to return the money, some received it and some did not,” SDPO Pandey added. One Mangru Chaudhary lodged an FIR with the Choraut police station on June 22 after police came to know about the withdrawals and asked the villagers to lodge an FIR. “However, as the area got flooded, police was unable to go for investigation,” he said. Paswan said an FIR has been lodged against 15 named and 150 unknown villagers on the basis of SI Chatterjee’s written complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/six-cops-hurt-in-sitamarhi-attack/articleshow/77269086.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Patna||Bidding process for Patna ring road project begins||PATNA: National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has started bidding process for the first phase of Patna ring road project. Announcing this here on Thursday, road construction minister Nand Kishor Yadav said a six-lane road would be built from Kanhauli in Bihta to Ramnagar in Patna south in the first phase. The proposed alignment of Patna ring road is Bihta-Naubatpur-Dumri-Beldari Chak-Kachhi Dargah-Bidupur bridge-Saran-Astipur-Naya Gaon-Dighwara-Sherpur-Bihta. The 130km-long ring road project will be executed with an expenditure of over Rs 4,000 crore. “The bidding process for roping in firm (s) for construction of 39km-long six-lane road in the first phase has been initiated. The last date for submitting bids for the same is August 6 and the work is targeted to be completed in 24 months from the date of award of contract. The first phase of the project will be executed with an expenditure of Rs 823 crore,” the minister said. On the alignment of the first phase of the project, the minister said it would start from Kanhauli and pass through Sadisopur, Naubatpur, Dumri, Patna-Masaurhi road and culminate at Ramnagar. “The construction of this road will allow vehicles coming from Ara and Bihta to directly go to places like Bhagalpur in north Bihar without entering Patna. These vehicles will go to north Bihar via Gaya, Jehanabad and Mokama,” the minister said, adding it would be second six-lane project in the state. “Land is already available for 60-metre wide right of way (RoW) for this stretch of Patna ring road project. Thus, there is minimal requirement of land acquisition,” he said. Nand Kishor said the alignment of the ring road would move north from Ramnagar and connect to Kachchi Dargah-Bidupur six-plane bridge in subsequent phases. “From Bidupur, the ring road will move further to Vaishali, enter Saran and return towards Patna with construction of a bridge over river Ganga connecting Sherpur in Maner block,” he said. The 22.7km-long Kachhi Dargah-Bidupur bridge connecting Patna to Vaishali is scheduled to be completed by December 2021. The ring road project is part of PM Narendra Modi’s special package for Bihar, which he had announced before 2014 general elections. Except Kachhi Dargah-Bidupur bridge, which is being constructed by Bihar State Road Development Corporation Limited, remaining stretch of the project is being executed by NHAI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bidding-process-for-patna-ring-road-project-begins/articleshow/77269166.cms||Piyush Tripathi
July 31, 2020||Hubballi||Rapid antigen test drive begins in Hubballi||Hubballi: Rapid Antigen Test for detection of Covid positive cases was launched by deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil at Durgadbail here on Thursday. Patil told TOI that the aim of the drive was to find Covid positive patients and provide them with treatment at the earliest. He said they were complaints that many people are falling sick after visiting market areas where people gather in large numbers. He said the administration has identified 10 markets in Hubballi and five in Dharwad to conduct the drive. “We have decided to conduct 1,000 rapid antigen tests every day and have received 10,000 kits. The drive will continue for the next week. Those who test positive will be sent to Covid care centres and hospitals based on their symptoms,” he said. On Thursday, a few shop owners tested positive and their shops were closed and warning posters were pasted on the shutters. According to officials, tests will be conducted to shop owners in market areas of Hubballi and Dharwad and people falling in vulnerable groups. Shop owners flee When officials were asking shop owners to give their swabs for the Covid test, many of them closed their shops and went away. The officials said they would conduct the tests every day to identify Covid positive patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/rapid-antigen-test-drive-begins-in-hubballi/articleshow/77269472.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Allahabad||CRPF jawan killed in road accident||A 41-year-old assistant commandant of CRPF was killed after his car rammed a truck near Baraut highway under the limits of Handia police station on Thursday morning. His driver was also injured in the accident. The deceased Santosh Kumar was a resident of Chhapra in Bihar. According to Handia police, the accident occurred when Kumar was returning to Delhi from his home town. After being alerted, police sent the injured driver to hospital. The driver Vinod Kumar is a resident of Devri in Haryana. Police said the deceased was posted at 122 Battalion in Delhi. The body has been sent for postmortem examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/crpf-jawan-killed-in-road-accident/articleshow/77271242.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Business||Gold demand headed for worst show since 1994; drops 70% in June qtr, imports sink 95%||Chennai: Gold demand dropped by 70% year on year for the quarter ended June, as surging prices and poor consumer sentiments have kept jewellery purchase at bay, despite the period having auspicious occasions like Akshaya Tritiya. Overall demand stood at a record low of 63.7 tonnes, down from 213.2 tonnes, lowest since 2010. Jewellery demand was at 44 tonnes, a drop of 74%, from 168.6 tonnes, registered in the same quarter of the previous fiscal, data from World Gold Council showed. It is also the lowest Q2 demand seen since 2010. The lowest annual demand for gold was 415 tonnes in 1994. 2020, so far, has seen a demand of 165.6 tonnes. In terms of value, the demand was at Rs 26,600 crore, down by 57% compared to Rs 62,420 crore during Q2 of CY 2019. As a result, total gold imports in India in Q2 2020 sank 95% 11.6 tonnes during the quarter compared to 247.4 tonnes in Q2 2019 “The quarter was marked by lockdown and high prices. There was a lot of fear and weddings, which usually contribute to a chunk of the demand, were postponed. However, there was a little increase in buying during the phases when the lockdown was relaxed. This would mean that the demand would go up once Covid situation improves,” said PR Somasundaram, MD, WGC India. WGC did not forecast the full year demand citing unpredictable conditions. Jewellers too saw a drop in demand in the quarter. April was a complete washout because of the total lockdown. May and June saw Covid restrictions easing, but the consumer sentiments were largely subdued. “There was virtually no business in April. May saw 30% of usual business and June saw less than 20%, because prices were high and customers were waiting for prices to drop,” said N Ananthapadmanabhan, MD, NAC Jewellers. Titan in a regulatory filing earlier this month said that May’s revenue stood at 20% of the same period from the previous year and June saw 70% They also say the current quarter witnesses subdued demand thanks to record high prices. A gram of 22 carat gold was priced at Rs 5,100 on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gold-demand-headed-for-worst-show-since-1994-drops-70-in-june-qtr-imports-sink-95/articleshow/77270354.cms||Aparna Desikan
July 31, 2020||Goa||Bribery case: HC grants bail to Anjuna panch member||PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa on Thursday granted bail to Anjuna-Caisua panchayat member Hanumant Govekar. The statements of material witnesses have already been recorded and Govekar is no longer required in custody, special public prosecutor S R Rivanker submitted to the court. Justice Nutan Sardessai granted conditional bail on executing bail bonds of Rs50,000 and said that Govekar cannot leave the state without the prior written permission of the court. Last month, the anti corruption branch (ACB) of the directorate of vigilance arrested the panchayat member for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs9 lakh from a local businessman to renew licenses. The case also brought few more panchayat members under the scanner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bribery-case-hc-grants-bail-to-anjuna-panch-member/articleshow/77271973.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi MP Gautam Gambhir vows support to kids of sex workers||NEW DELHI: East Delhi MP Gautam Gambhir has decided to support children of sex workers and fund their education, health and living expenses. A group of 10 girls born to sex workers of GB Road have been selected initially and the number will be increased to 25 later. “To get children of sex workers out of that hell, I am starting programme “PANKH” with 25 children and I will look after all their needs including shelter & education. I urge others to come forward and contribute too!” Gambhir tweeted on Friday. The 10 selected children are studying in different government schools of Delhi and staying in shelters. Gambhir will monitor their development and fund the needs with an objective to ensure that they realise their dream in future. He will sponsor their school fees, uniform, food, medical needs including counselling so that they can make their mark. “Everybody in the society has the right to live a decent life and I want to ensure more opportunities for these children so that they can live their dreams. I also want to request people who can afford, to please come forward and help in sponsoring children,” Gambhir said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gambhir-vows-support-to-kids-of-sex-workers/articleshow/77293242.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Patna||Voting on no-trust motion against Patna mayor today||PATNA: Voting on the no-confidence motion moved by 41 ward councillors of Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) against mayor Sita Sahu will be held at S K Memorial Hall here on Friday keeping social distancing in mind. The 41 PMC councillors, including deputy mayor Meera Devi, had moved the no-confidence motion against Sahu on July 3, accusing her of discriminating them and not chairing board meetings. Sahu, however, claimed on Thursday that over 50 of 75 PMC councillors will vote against the motion. “The allegations levelled by some councillors against me are baseless as I treat everyone equally. Some, including former deputy mayor Vinay Kumar Pappu, are trying to take signatures of councillors on no-confidence motion by hoodwinking them just to delay development work,” she said. The mayor needs 38 votes in the 75-member PMC board to defeat the motion. All seven empowered standing committee members of the civic body are in support of Sahu. One of the members, Ashish Kumar Sinha of ward number 38, said development works like solid waste management and water connection to households were done under the regime of Sahu. “I was in the opposition two years back. However, I now support Sahu only because of her good works,” he said. Section 144 will be imposed at the S K Memorial Hall on Friday and voting will take place amid tight security. Deputy mayor Meera Devi will chair the meeting. The deputy mayor said by not chairing any meeting of the board in the last three years, Sahu has disgraced her position. “All the questions directed to her were being answered by her favourite ward councillors. She never consults the councillors before approving projects,” Meera said. Vinay Kumar Pappu said such kind of favouritism in urban local body was unfortunate. “The development schemes should be implemented in all wards,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/voting-on-no-trust-motion-against-patna-mayor-today/articleshow/77269147.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 31, 2020||Mysuru||As doctors turn invigilators,Covid +ve students take CET||Mysuru: The Common Entrance Test (CET) was held across the state on Thursday with many centres taking added health-safety measures such as disinfectant tunnels. There was a marked dip in attendance on day 1 compared to last year. This year, over 1.9 lakh students registered for Karnataka CET. About 76 % of the candidates appeared for the biology paper on Thursday morning and 89 % for the mathematics one in the afternoon, down from 80 % and 91 %, respectively. Officials attributed the drop to the already declared PU/class XII results. “Usually, CET is conducted before the results are announced, so most of the students take the entrance test. This time, results of all boards have already been declared. Only students who are eligible to write CET are taking it,” said deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan, who oversees higher education. He termed the government’s preparations for CET a success. Doctors at the Covid care centres (CCCs) in Mandakalli in Mysuru, Hunsur, HD Kote and Periyapatna played the new role of invigilators during the examination. As five students appeared for CET from the CCCs, doctors worked as invigilators while para medical staff were the supporting staff. In Mysuru, DDPU Geetha JR said that it was the first time that CET centres were opened in all seven taluks of the district. Similarly in Shivamogga and Chikkamagalur too, Covid-19 positive students appeared for CET at Covid care hospitals. At Mudigere in Chikkamagalur district, a student who tested positive on Wednesday was allowed to write the exam from the Mudigere Covid hospital. In Shivamogga, a Covid positive student appeared for CET at the CCC in Gajanuru village. Deputy commissioner KB Sivakumar said the student was admitted last week and had been accommodated at a special ward. Dedicated staff were deputed for exam duty, he said. According to students, both papers were easy. Nikitha S, a student of Deeksha said, “The biology paper was quite easy, although a few questions appeared outside the NCERT textbook. The paper could be easily finished within time. Social distancing was ensured at the centre and it was a comfortable experience.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/as-doctors-turn-invigilatorscovid-ve-students-take-cet/articleshow/77269072.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Patna||JD(U) netas confident of Nitish’s return to power||PATNA: JD(U) national general secretary (organisation) R C P Singh on Thursday exuded confidence that people of the state would bestow their blessing on CM Nitish Kumar in the upcoming state assembly polls and pave the way for his return to power once again. Addressing workers of the party on the concluding day of virtual sammelan, Singh said Nitish has worked for each district in the state. “Nitish always thought about big things and also for all, which made him different from others,” the JD(U) leader said. Praising CM for ‘development with justice’ concept, Singh said the CM focused not only on development works, but also worked for eradicating social evils that had been plaguing the society for ages. He appealed to workers of the party to make Nitish’s virtual rally on August 7 a success. He also urged them to connect more and more people with social media and ensure that the objective to plant 2.51 crore saplings on the occasion is achieved. Addressing another virtual rally, Munger MP and senior JD(U) leader Rajiv Ranjan Singh Lalan said the RJD would be routed in the forthcoming assembly election in the state. “The fear of ‘jungle raj’ of 15 years of Lalu and his wife Rabri Devi is still fresh in the minds of people,” he said. Lalan said the Nitish government has spent around Rs 1,000 crore on repair of national highways from the state funds to make plying of vehicles smooth. “In addition, 6200MW electricity was purchased from outside to supply power to people in the state for 24 hours. A sluice was built at a cost of Rs 200 crore for irrigation of land in Tal region, which earlier remained waterlogged for most period of the year,” he said. State planning and development minister Maheshwar Hazari gave credit to Nitish Kumar for maintaining social and communal harmony in the society ever since he came to power. Food consumer and protection minister Madan Sahni said the “RJD couple” humiliated people belonging to backward sections by calling them ‘panch forna’, ‘panch pawania’ and ‘jinn’, while Nitish launched several welfare schemes for people belonging to the minority community in the last 15 years. IPRD minister Niraj Kumar said the CM contributed state funds to disaster-hit people of the state. Rajya Sabha member Hariwansh Narayan Singh, state president of JD(U) Vashishtha Narayan Singh, transport department minister Santosh Kumar Nirala, MP Chandeshwar Prasad Chandrawanshi and minister Ashok Choudhary also spoke on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-netas-confident-of-nitishs-return-to-power/articleshow/77269037.cms||Ramashankar
July 31, 2020||Patna||Chirag highlights ‘anomalies’ in distribution of ration cards||PATNA: Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) president Chirag Paswan on Thursday shot off a letter to chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar drawing the latter’s attention towards anomalies in preparation and distribution of ration cards in the state. Chirag expressed dismay over the problems faced by people in preparation of ration cards. “Strong resentment prevails among those who are devoid of the benefits of the central government’s schemes for ration card holders. It is the responsibility of the state government to ensure that ration cards are provided to them,” he said. To drive home his point, the Jamui MP pointed out that a video had gone viral on social media a couple of days ago in which Sanjay Yadav, a ward councillor of Sheikhpura district, was heard threatening Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan for deriving people of ration. A formal police complaint was lodged against him later. Sanjay Yadav is not an isolated case. There are several people, who have not got ration cards despite providing relevant documents to the authorities concerned. Take the case of Babita Devi, a resident of Muraubatpur village under Mahnar block in Vaishali district. Her acquaintance claimed that she had applied for a ration card in 2018. The officials posted at the Mahnar block office had assured her that the card would reach her residence within a month, but “she has not received anything even after two years”. Earlier on Tuesday, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi had said in a statement that each family affected by the floods would be given 25kg of foodgrains and 5kg of pulses free of cost for five months. “At present, the state has a total of 1,68,31,000 ration card holders, of which 1,39,28,000 were supplied foodgrains and pulses through public distribution system shops. The remaining 28.42 lakh cards were either duplicate or the beneficiaries had shifted to other places,” Modi pointed out. The deputy CM assured that new ration card holders would also get benefits of the scheme. JD (U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad, however, said the state government had already clarified that those who had been left for any technical reason could apply for ration cards at RTPS counters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/chirag-highlights-anomalies-in-distribution-of-ration-cards/articleshow/77268932.cms||Ramashankar
July 31, 2020||Patna||Target to test 20,000 samples a day achieved: Bihar govt||PATNA: The state government on Thursday claimed that the target of testing 20,000 samples per day for Covid-19, set by CM Nitish Kumar recently, has been achieved. Health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh told reporters in the daily Covid briefing on Thursday that altogether 20,081 samples were tested on Wednesday. “Thus, the target of conducting 20,000 tests per day has been achieved,” he said. The health department has also decided to launch a Covid-dedicated toll-free number in every district. Lokesh said each toll-free number will have 10 hunting lines. These hunting lines will ensure 24x7 availability of doctors. “Any person can take health related consultation for free by calling on the toll-free number. The control rooms will have sufficient availability of ambulances, paramedical staff and kits for any emergency,” Lokesh said. Information and public relations department secretary Anupam Kumar said antigen tests were being conducted in flood relief camps in adherence to instructions issued by the CM. “Number of kits for conducting the tests has been increased,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/target-to-test-20000-samples-a-day-achieved-bihar-govt/articleshow/77269078.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Business||LVB, Clix Capital merger talks extended by two weeks, bank slips into red again||Chennai: The proposal for merger of AION-backed lender Clix Capital Services and Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) has been extended by two weeks, as the two parties could not reach a conclusion on valuation at the end of 45-day target period which ends today. The Bank sighted the current Covid situation and travel restrictions for the delay in the conduct of mutual due diligence and preparation of documents for regulatory requirements. As per the letter of interest (LOI), adjusting for capital adequacy, the amalgamation would mean extra capital up to Rs 1,900 crore for the merged entity and total assets of approximately Rs 4,600 crore. LVB, which announced the first quarter results on Thursday, reversed its gains and went back to red with a net loss at Rs 112 crore, due to lower interest income on back of poor advances. The private lender continues to be under RBI’s prompt corrective action. There has also been a steady decline in the Bank’s deposit base since September 2019, with bulk deposits reduced by 41% at Rs 1,376 crore in June, 2020, from Rs 2,350 crore in June, 2019. Gross advances declined by 20% at Rs 16,310 crore in this quarter, compared to the same quarter last year. “The decline is mainly due to hiving-off some low yielding bulk advances and conservative approach of selective security based low risk fresh lending,” the bank statement said. The bank broke the losing chain after several quarters to report profit of Rs 93 crore in the March-ended quarter, 2020. The Reserve Bank of India has initiated Prompt Corrective Action in September 2019, which inter alia prescribes the Bank to bring in additional capital, restrict further lending to corporates, reduce NPAs and improve the Provision Coverage Ratio to 70%. Tier 1 capital ratio worsened to (-) 1.83% in June from (-)0.88% in March quarter. The statutory minimum requirement is 8.9%. Its total Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) as per Basel Ill guidelines, stood lowest at 0.17% for the first quarter, as against regulatory requirement of 10.9%. The provision coverage ratio has improved to 72.6%, higher than the minimum of 70% prescribed under PCA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lvb-clix-capital-merger-talks-extended-by-two-weeks-bank-slips-into-red-again/articleshow/77270374.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Goa||Parents body files plaint with DoE over pvt school fees||Panaji: The All Goa Unaided Schools Parents’ Association (AGUSPA), a registered body, on Thursday filed a complaint with the directorate of education (DoE) stating that it has been misrepresented on the fee structure committee formed under high court directives. It alleged a fraud abetted by the DoE to manipulate the committee’s report. AGUSPA has been battling its case in the high court since 2009 to get Supreme Court directives on regulation of fees of private schools implemented in Goa. A parent Tallulah D’Silva also made a submission on Thursday to the director of education stating that she was appointed a member on the fee structure committee without being a member of AGUSPA. D’Silva said that she was kept in the dark by other members of the committee that as per the matter in the high court the parent representative had to be necessarily a member of AGUSPA. “I am not even a member of the association. The director of my kids’ private school asked me to be a member. My role was never explained to me. The committee held only three meeting in two months and I had a feeling that the meetings were hurried and the necessary consultative process was not followed,” said D’Silva, who has now asked the new director of education Santosh Amonkar to reconstitute the committee. D’Silva said that when it dawned on her that others from the 10-member committee had kept some vital information from her, she went again through the documents again and found major issues. “I was invited on November 21 and I saw later that the committee was formed as per an order issued on November 15. This order was also submitted in the court,” said D’Silva. Secretary of AGUSPA Orlando Pacheco said that although they were petitioners in the high court matter, they were strangely not invited by the DoE to represent AGUSPA on the fee structure committee. “Tallulah D’Silva was included on the committee as AGUSPA’s representative even though she was never even a primary member of AGUSPA, neither was she authorized by AGUSPA to represent them. The former director of education Vandana Rao allowed the private schools body AGGRUSA, who is a respondent in the high court matter, to appoint representative of its adversary, the petitioners, on the committee. This is a fraud,” said Pacheco. He said that the fee committee report thus prepared has already been submitted to the state government and that AGUSPA’s demand is that it should be scrapped and the committee reconstituted with AGUSPA member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/parents-body-files-plaint-with-doe-over-pvt-school-fees/articleshow/77271970.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Patna||40 Covid-19 patients get plasma therapy at AIIMS-Patna, 32 recover||PATNA: At least 40 Covid-19 patients have so far been given plasma therapy at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS)-Patna. Of these 40 patients, 32 have recovered, including two critically ill patients in the age group of 50-60 years with comorbidities like diabetes and hypertension. Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nodal officer for Covid-19 at AIIMS-Patna, said 10 severe patients were given plasma therapy, but only two of them survived. “As per the medical analysis, we can say that the plasma therapy has proved fruitful for moderately severe patients. The rate of survival of severe patients (those on ventilator support) is only 20%. We divided the Covid patients into four categories – mild, moderate, moderately severe and severe. This therapy is only for moderately severe and severe Covid patients,” Dr Sanjeev said. He added, “When we give the plasma of a recovered patient to critically ill patients, the antibodies in the plasma try to neutralise the virus in the patient’s body.” Convalescent plasma therapy involves transfusion of certain components (antibody) from the blood of people who have recovered from a virus into people who are very sick and are at high risk. Dr Sanjeev said it was too early to comment on the effectiveness of plasma therapy. He, however, said early administration of plasma can reduce mortality rate. Altogether 85 people have so far have donated plasma at AIIMS-Patna after recovering from Covid. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had given green signal to AIIMS-Patna in the last week of April to conduct convalescent plasma therapy to treat seriously ill Covid patients. Plasma was for the first time donated at the hospital on June 5 Dr Neha Singh, blood transfusion officer at AIIMS-Patna, said, “The number of plasma donors increased in mid-July. Two more people donated plasma on Thursday. So far, 80 units have been given to Covid patients. Plasma therapy is not a magical therapy. It is a supportive therapy for critically ill Covid patients. It does not have any side-effect.” The district administration has launched a special cell to encourage people to donate plasma. These people are also felicitated with mementos.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/40-patients-get-plasma-at-aiims-patna-32-recover/articleshow/77269263.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 31, 2020||Patna||Bihar govt taking steps to curb Covid-19: CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Thursday said the state government was taking all required steps for prevention of Covid-19 spread in the state. “Entire world is affected by Covid-19 pandemic. Those linked with medical field have an important role to play along with administrative and police personnel to bring the pandemic under control,” the CM said while inaugurating 124 police buildings constructed by Bihar Police Building Construction Corporation Limited (BPBCCL) with an expenditure of Rs 544 crore via videoconferencing from his 1, Aney Marg residence. The CM also laid foundation for 96 police buildings which would be constructed with an estimated expenditure of Rs 254.46 crore.. The CM said all people should follow social distancing norms and use masks while leaving home. Nitish asked the officials concerned to conduct antigen test of all police personnel as they are contracting Covid-19 while performing duty. “Conducting antigen test of police personnel is important for their safety. We should take care of those who are serving the people,” he said. He praised the BPBCCL for its turnover of Rs 1,600 crore in last five years and the constructions done by it. The also wished corporation’s managing director-cum-DG Sunil Kumar, who will retire on Friday after more than 30 years of service. The CM said his government never asked the police to either implicate or save anyone. “Massacres taking place prior to 2005 were controlled. Rule of law was established in the state with zero tolerance on crime, corruption and communalism,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-govt-taking-steps-to-curb-covid-19-nitish/articleshow/77269172.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 31, 2020||Business||Cognizant net dips 29% on Covid, ransomware attack; co appoints new CFO||CHENNAI: Recovering from the dual impact of a global pandemic and a cyber attack, Nasdaq-listed IT services major Cognizant Technology Solutions reported a 29% year-on-year dip in profitability for April-June period. Cognizant’s quarterly revenue at $4 billion narrowly met street expectations as average analysts’ estimate stood at around $3.82 billion revenue. The company reported net profit of $361 million in the second quarter compared to $509 million in June 2019 (the company follows the calendar year accounting). Sequentially, profits fell marginally compared to $367 million in the January-March period. Revenue fell 2.5% in constant currency (CC) terms from $4.14 billion in the year-ago period. This includes a 210 basis points (100 basis points= 1%) impact from the exit of its content services business and the Maze ransomware attack suffered in April, the company said. Revenue and bookings improved through May and June, with increased demand in cloud services and digital engineering, the company added. Cognizant’s performance in April-June lags its peers TCS and Infosys. Profits fell 14% year-on-year at TCS in the period, and Infosys reported a stronger-than-expected profit that rose almost 11%. “We delivered a solid second quarter performance whilst continuing to improve our competitiveness,” Cognizant CEO Brian Humphries said, in a statement. “We essentially completely contained and eradicated ransomware, [and] we’ve also begun what we expect will be a multi-quarter initiative to refresh and strengthen our approach to security,” he added in the earnings call. “At the beginning of June 2020 earnings season, the street expectations from Cognizant’s revenue performance were lowest among the large Indian service providers... However, Cognizant posted revenue and EPS which beat street by 4.5% and 20.6%, respectively, showing some promise in execution of the growth and optimization plans laid out by CEO Humphries,” Prashant Shukla, director, Everest Group, said. Following recent C-suite exits of its India head and global delivery head, Cognizant announced that Karen McLoughlin, its CFO of eight years, is stepping down and the company has appointed Jan Siegmund as the CFO. Siegmund was most recently the CFO of Automatic Data Processing, a HR tech provider. Humphries said Cognizant will be rolling out a company-wide “Cognizant agenda” in August to capture the digital opportunity created by the pandemic. Cognizant is also working to globalize its network of delivery centers to complement the India hub, he added. For 2020, Cognizant expects revenue to decline in the range of 0.5%-2% year-over-year in CC terms reflecting muted growth expectations across financial services, retail and travel sectors. Cognizant did not provide a business outlook last quarter. CFO Karen McLoughlin said in the earnings call: “Overall the demand environment in the second half remains uncertain, but we believe that we are gaining competitiveness across industries.” Sectorally, financial services revenue fell 4.3% in CC terms in April-June. Healthcare revenue grew 2.2%. Products and Resources revenue declined 5%. Revenue from communications, media and technology fell 3.2% driven by Cognizant’s decision to exit certain content-related services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cognizant-net-dips-29-on-covid-ransomware-attack-co-appoints-new-cfo/articleshow/77270269.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
July 31, 2020||Business||Affirmative vote at centre of credit facility renewal battle at realty co; NCLT relief to promoters||MUMBAI: In a legal fight where majority shareholders of a construction company alleged oppression by the minority, National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in Mumbai restrained two minority but substantial shareholders from "preventing or interfering " in renewal of a Rs 250 crore credit facility from two banks notwithstanding their objections in Board meeting held in December 2019 and May 2020. The case, hotly contested for a week by senior counsels including Sharan Jagtiani, Zal Andhyarujina and Gaurav Joshi engaged by large corporate law firms, also counsels Rohan Cama and Mayur Khandeparkar, on both sides dealt with a hot-topic issue of ‘affirmative votes’. Abbas Jasdanwalla, chairman of New Consolidated Construction Company Ltd and two other promoter-directors who together hold about 60 per cent shareholding had filed a company petition against its two investors, HDFC Ventures and Jipe Mauritius Ltd. The tribunal bench of Judicial member Mohammed Ajmal and technical member Ravikumar Duraisamy in an interim order passed on July 29 observed that the petitioning shareholders were “entitled to ad interim relief’’ and restrained the investors from "corresponding with others in matters related to the company petition." One of the Articles of Association (AoA) of the company provided for unanimous votes for items incurring any Financial indebtedness in excess of Rs 1 crore unless otherwise permitted in the business plan. The investors citing the Article said the credit facility approval required their mandatory affirmative vote and their presence in board meeting for quorum. The promoters alleged that the investors were using the articles on affirmative votes and quorum of board meetings as “instruments of oppression and prejudice". The investors’ argument is “misconceived” said the promoters contending that continuing a credit facility did not attract the affirmative votes. “In our considered opinion the continuance of an existing credit facility would not come within the purview of financial indebtedness," said the NCLT in its order. Affirmative votes or veto rights obligate promoters and company to seek prior approval from the investors before taking decisions on matters covered under affirmative rights granted to the investors. For the company promoters, these rights can be worrisome and are often hotly negotiated in the term sheet or shareholders agreements. HDFC Ventures holds 2.79 percent shareholding while Jipe holds 36.21 percent in the real-estate construction company, which last December added Ghazal singer Penaz Masani as its independent woman director. The company also has a Rajya Sabha member, Sambhaji Raje Chhatrapati, as an independent director. The promoters’ gripe was that the two Funds and three investor-directors were blocking renewal of company’s working credit facility from a bank by not attending board meetings, objecting and writing to the bank to prevent disbursal, after the board’s approval in last December. They had approached NCLT in June. The lack of credit facility would put the company’s very existence, the promoters said and the Tribunal acknowledged. The credit facility was continuing since 2007, it noted. The investors also questioned petition’s maintainability, the Tribunal’s jurisdiction when its suit against the company was pending before Bombay high court, argued the inordinate delay as a vitiating factor. The tribunal said it has the jurisdiction to hear the matter and observed that the Funds’ action in abandoning board meetings and raising concerns subsequently, “prima facie, does not appear to be sound corporate governance". “The Bank was willing to extend the credit facility but for the non-cooperation of the Respondents,” observed NCLT in its order released on Thursday. It added, “The allegations of financial bungling by petitioners should not prima facie come in the way of availing credit facilities…there is no material on record that the Company has been in default in servicing the credit facilities…The conduct of the Respondents ex-facie could not be held in the best interests of the Company where they also have substantial stake." The NCLT order observed that the HC had granted no interim relief to HDFC Ventures and Jipe last December in its commercial suit for a declaration that board meetings held in 2018 were illegal. The order also restrained the Company. "The company, except for the existing credit facility with Banks, Financial Institution, other lenders,shall not increase its exposure with any Bank, Financial Institution, other lender without an appropriate Board Resolution, Shareholders’ Resolution and the concurrence of this Tribunal." “A dispute resolution mechanism between the parties under a contract would not foreclose the party’s prerogative of approaching a statutory authority for redressal of its grievances," said NCLT however, adding “Whether or not the matter needs to be referred to arbitration cannot be decided at this preliminary stage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/majority-claims-oppression-at-realty-firm/articleshow/77270711.cms||Swati Deshpande
July 31, 2020||Patna||National education policy: ‘Flexibility’ draws loudest cheers||PATNA: The new National Education Policy (NEP), which aims to make the curricula of schools and colleges more skill-oriented, has garnered mixed reactions from academics and teachers’ bodies in Bihar. Many educationists believe that the policy, if properly implemented, will ensure emergence of a new developed India. They have hailed the proposals for setting up autonomous bodies like the National Education Commission (NEC) and National Educational Technology Forum and empowering the National Testing Agency to conduct a combined entrance examination for admission to degree colleges. According to Munger University vice-chancellor Ranjit Kumar Verma, flexibility in curricula and abolition of the boundary between faculties will create a conducive environment for academic and intellectual growth of the students. “Establishment of the National Research Foundation will avoid duplication of research topics. Besides, the proposed NEC will improve the overall standard of higher education in the country, including states like Bihar,” Verma says. Former dean of Patna University’s (PU) education faculty, Khagendra Kumar, points out that bifurcation of higher education into different categories is a welcome step, but the tenure of postgraduate (PG) academic programmes need not be reduced. “Multiple exit option is a noteworthy step as it will help students get reward for their partial efforts during the Bachelor’s course and also facilitate their re-entry into the programme,” he says. To PU geology department head Atul Aditya Pandey, implementation of the NPE provisions, most of which have supposedly been borrowed from developed nations, will be a challenge. He says, “Internationalization of education in terms of entry of foreign universities should be done in such a way that the resources and profits earned from our students are invested only in India.” Former Patna Science College principal Radha Kant Prasad also believes that too much experimentation with the education system, especially at the primary and secondary stages, will prove counterproductive. “How can our higher education system be revamped and taken at the global stage until primary and secondary stages provide a strong foundation?” he asks. Federation of University Teachers’ Associations of Bihar’s working president Kanhaiya Bahadur Sinha criticizes the sweeping generalization of higher education under the NEP, saying, “We need specialists, not generalists in every field. Besides, the steps recommended for increasing the gross enrolment ratio are too clumsy and impractical to be implemented.” Patna University Teachers’ Association president Randhir Kumar Singh condemns the enhanced duration of degree courses and reduced period of PG and PhD programmes. “This step will be detrimental as the PG and doctorate level programmes are meant mostly for teachers who are supposed to learn the subjects in greater detail,” Singh says. Students, on the other hand, have welcomed the NEP and hope it will go a long way in creating employment opportunities for them. Patna College sociology student Satish Kumar says, “The NEP focuses on online learning as an alternative to regular classroom interaction between teachers and students. This will help those who are not able to attend regular classes in colleges and universities.” Magadh Mahila College history student Ragini lauds the proposed flexibility in selection of subjects. “Now, students will be able to pursue education with greater flexibility in a seamless learning environment,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/national-education-policy-flexibility-draws-loudest-cheers/articleshow/77269018.cms||B K Mishra
July 31, 2020||Patna||Many couples put baby plans on hold||PATNA: It’s a difficult time for couples planning to start a family. Most are facing the dilemma whether to go ahead with their plan to welcome a baby home or to postpone their decision amid the raging Covid-19 pandemic. For instance, 30-year-old Patna native Shalu Prasad, who got married in 2018, had planned to welcome her first child by next year. However, Shalu and her husband have now put their plan on hold. “I am worried about the kind of environment all around. I don’t want any risks during my first pregnancy,” said Shalu, adding, even though she is working from home and staying inside 24x7, she has decided to wait for some time. West Champaran’s Naaz Afrin (name changed) had even started her early medication for in-vitro fertilization (IVF). Married for over 10 years, Naaz decided to go for IVF this time, but the Covid-19 pandemic has forced her to delay her plans for some time. “I consulted a doctor in Patna and after several visits, she started the procedure for IVF. Though it was very initial and medication had just started, but Covid-19 cases started emerging in India, followed by lockdown in March. During the initial lockdown, I was not able to go to Patna for regular visits. So I decided to stop this medication for this year at least,” said Naaz. Even city-based obstetricians and gynaecologists have advised couples to put on hold their family planning for some time. Patna Obstetrics and Gynaecological Society member Dr Usha Didwania said couples should wait for at least one year as coronavirus was new and studies are still going on about its impact on pregnancy. She said even routine check-ups have now decreased. “Earlier, we used to call pregnant women 10 times in their nine-months pregnancy. But it has been reduced to six now,” she added. Another noted obstetrician and gynaecologist in Patna, Dr Manju Geeta Mishra also gave a similar advice and said if possible, people should extend their family planning. However, Dr Mishra said Covid-19 virus as such had no impact on babies, like other viruses. “If they have conceived, they need not worry,” she added. Mental health therapist Dr Vidya Nair talked about conducive environment needed both during pregnancy and after. She said many women go through depression both during pregnancy and after child birth. “There are a lot of hormonal changes in the body. Even postpartum depression is a common thing and a supportive family environment is needed.” Dr Nair said though the environment outside is not so favourable, but if the family is mentally ready, then couples can go ahead. She further said in some cases, age factors cannot be ignored and added, “One does not really know when things will get better.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-couples-put-baby-plans-on-hold/articleshow/77269138.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 31, 2020||Patna||Late start to learning English worries many experts||PATNA: The National Education Policy (NEP) has received mixed responses from various quarters, with a section of the academia arguing that its implementation will be challenging. Mathematician and Super 30 founder Anand Kumar has welcomed the new policy that will “bring positive changes in the education system of the country by encouraging students to choose subjects from different streams freely.” He, however, points out that implementation of provisions like recruitment of teachers well-versed in regional languages and their training will be difficult. St Joseph’s Convent High School teacher Shweta Prasad likes the concept of choosing subjects freely and the introduction of vocational courses from Class VI. But she criticizes the use of regional languages as the medium of instruction in classrooms. Shweta says, “English is the only language that is accepted globally. If our students communicate in the regional language till Class VIII, it will be difficult for them to shift to English later.” Namrata, a chemistry teacher at Carmel High School, also opposes the idea of implementing the regional language as a medium of instruction. She points out, “It will be difficult for those who want to attend foreign universities. Doing away with the Class X board exams is also unacceptable.” Bishop Scott Group director Shailesh Kumar hails the NEP’s stress on online learning and virtual labs, which is “important in the times of Covid-19”. Meanwhile, the new policy has also garnered mixed reactions from parents. Anita Singh, whose daughter and son study in St Karen’s High School, says, “Steps like reduced curricula and focus on vocational courses are great. Students will learn new skills and not be under constant pressure.” S K Puri resident Raman Kumar Sinha is happy that the “NEP will give students the freedom to pick subjects”. Boring Canal Road resident Shwetlana condemns the use of regional languages as the medium of instruction in private schools. She says, “If I move to Mumbai or Chennai, my daughter will find it difficult to understand Marathi or Tamil.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/late-start-to-learning-english-worries-many-experts/articleshow/77269040.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 31, 2020||Patna||Shifting of polling booths should not be allowed: Manjhi||PATNA: HAM(S) chief and former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi on Thursday urged the workers of the party to ensure that the polling booths, which were located at government buildings and have electors over 500, were not shifted to other locations in the wake of upcoming assembly polls in the state. Addressing a virtual rally of party workers, Manjhi said that the Election Commission has issued guidelines to the state election officer to ensure that number of electors at each polling booth was restricted to 1000 in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. “The shifting of polling booths will impact the outcome of the election,” he said. He also appealed from the functionaries to persuade migrant workers to include their names in electoral rolls. “Be prepared for the forthcoming assembly polls and the EC has already started its initial preparations. The booth level workers have a great role to play. They should launch a campaign to include the names of those who have missed so far,” the former CM said. He also cautioned the workers against poll irregularities. “The activists of the party have to lay special emphasis on massive turnout of voters at the polling stations so that the polling percentage is recorded high,” Majhi said, adding that voters, polling agents and polling personnel should strictly adhere to social distancing norms at respective polling booths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/shifting-of-polling-booths-should-not-be-allowed-manjhi/articleshow/77269023.cms||Ramashankar
July 31, 2020||Business||LIC settles 561 Covid claims worth Rs 27 crore||Mumbai: Life Insurance Corporation of India said that it has settled 561 Covid-19 death claims amounting to nearly Rs 27 crore till last week. The insurer has also relaxed its norms amid the lockdown to process maturity claims based on email submissions of survival-benefit requirements and is settling such claims without the policy document if certain conditions are met. “Death claims arising due to Covid-19 are treated on a par with other causes of death and payments are being made on an urgent basis. LIC has also relaxed the procedure and is accepting requirements of death claim through email from their club agents and development officers,” the corporation said. Even before the pandemic, the number of customers using digital channels has grown significantly, with LIC recording a 36% increase in digital transactions in FY20. It has also waived digital payment charges, including payment by credit cards, till November. The corporation on Thursday also announced its audited figures FY20. New business (first-year premium) for the year ending March 2020 grew 25 % to a record Rs 1.8 lakh crore. Pension & group superannuation business also crossed the Rs 1-lakh-crore milestone, with total collections of Rs 1.3 lakh crore of new business against Rs 90,848 crore in the previous year, recording a growth of over 39%. Total premium income (new policies and renewals) amounted to Rs 3.8 lakh crore for FY20 as compared to Rs 3.4 lakh crore in FY19, recording a growth of over 12%. Total policy payouts for the year were Rs 2.54 lakh crore, a 1% increase over Rs 2.51 lakh crore in FY19. At the end of the year, the corporation had a market share of nearly 76% in policies and 69 % in first-year premium. LIC’s gross total income, which includes investment income, rose to Rs 6.2 lakh crore for FY20 — up nearly 10% from Rs 5.6 lakh crore in FY19. The corporation’s total assets increased 3% to nearly Rs 32 lakh crore from a little over Rs 31 lakh crore in FY19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lic-settles-561-covid-claims-worth-rs-27-crore/articleshow/77271640.cms||Mayur Shetty
July 31, 2020||Business||ITAT withdraws reference to special bench on issue of 20% deposit for stay of demand||TNN Mumbai: The Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT), Mumbai bench, has withdrawn its reference to the special bench to adjudicate on whether a stay of the tax demand can be granted without the taxpayer having to deposit 20% of the disputed amount. Section 254(2A), inserted by the Finance Act, 2020, took away the inherent power of this quasi-judicial forum to grant stay of a tax demand unless 20% of it was deposited. The special bench was to hear the issue on whether this amendment is directory or mandatory and binding on the ITAT. This decision to refer the issue to a special bench was made while hearing the litigation related to Tata Education and Development Trust. However, as the appeal of the Trust was disposed of favourably on July 24, the ITAT has withdrawn the reference for constitution of a special bench. It may be recalled that the ITAT had held that donations aggregating to Rs 223 crore made by the Trust to two US-based educational institutions will be treated as application of income. Large taxpayers, especially corporate ones, were looking forward to the special bench matter as in case of high-pitched tax demands, even a sum of 20% of the tax disputed can run into several crores. They do not rule out the possibility of a special bench reference being made again in the context of any other case that comes up for hearing before the ITAT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/itat-withdraws-reference-to-special-bench-on-issue-of-20-deposit-for-stay-of-demand/articleshow/77270792.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Business||RIL Q1 profit grows 31% on sale of petro biz stake||MUMBAI: Reliance Industries (RIL) saw its first quarter profit rise 31% to Rs 13,248 crore on the back of a gain it made from the sale of its 49% stake in the petro retail venture to BP. If this gain of Rs 4,966 crore is excluded, then RIL’s profit before tax is lower by 41% to Rs 8,542 crore for Q1 of fiscal 2021. The company’s revenue declined 41% to Rs 91,238 crore as operations were impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. Operating profit, too, fell 12% to Rs 21,585 crore in the April through June months due to weak earnings in its petrochemicals and refining businesses. “The severe demand destruction due to global lockdowns impacted our hydrocarbons business, but the flexibility in our operations enabled us to operate at near normal levels and deliver industry-leading results,” said RIL chairman Mukesh Ambani. The numbers beat Street estimates as most analysts expected RIL to report a lower profit. A Bloomberg poll had estimated a profit of Rs 7,119 crore. Operating profit of RIL’s refining and petrochemicals segments, traditionally the two largest earners, declined 26% and 50% to Rs 3,818 crore and Rs 4,430 crore. Earnings were impacted due to weak demand and lower price realisations. The company’s Jamnagar refinery, the world’s largest, secured a price of $6.3 from every barrel of crude it processed, much lower than what it earned in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. Operating profit of retail declined 47% to Rs 1,083 crore, while operating profit of digital services (Jio) rose 55% to Rs 7,281 crore due to an improved average revenue per unit (ARPU) and increased data usage by people while remaining sheltered at homes due to Covid-19. Jio has emerged as the biggest contributor to RIL’s operating profit. Its ARPU was Rs 140 in the June quarter, up from Rs 122 a year ago. ARPU is the total revenue of the telecom operator divided by the number of users on its network. Jio, which was launched in 2016, has 398 million subscribers and saw a data traffic growth of 30% on its network. RIL said that 50% of its retail stores were shut for most part of the June quarter due to cessation of activity during the lockdown, thus impacting earnings. Operating profit of the media unit declined 41% to Rs 27 crore as advertisers slashed spends, while the oil & gas business made an operational loss of Rs 32 crore. Financial services, which RIL recently started to report separately, made an operating profit of Rs 380 crore, up 211% from the year-ago period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ril-q1-profit-grows-31-on-sale-of-petro-biz-stake/articleshow/77271033.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Patna||Supply chain of Maoists effectively broken: ADG||GAYA: ADG (operations) S M Khopade said the supply chain of the Maoists, including that of ration and other provisions, has effectively been broken following continuous vigil and surveillance. Khopade told this newspaper late on Wednesday evening that the guards will not be lowered and Maoists will remain under pressure. He was in Gaya in connection with the surrender of three Maoists, said to be the members of the ‘military wing’ of the CPI (Maoists) trained in guerilla warfare. The three Maoists, who surrendered before the police on Wednesday, have been identified as Subedar Yadav, Mandeep Yadav and Shashi Manjhi. They surrendered in the presence of Khopade, Magadh range IG Rakesh Rathi, CRPF DIG Sanjay Kumar, Gaya SSP Rajiv Mishra, Aurangabad SP Pankaj Kumar and 159 CRPF battalion commander Nishit Kumar. Asked whether the Maoists also surrendered the weapons given to them by the banned organisation, Khopade said they did not surrender their weapons. Asked about the fate of the Maoists who surrendered, the ADG said they will be first sent to jail as all of them are involved in criminal cases. Khopade also said, “Efforts will continue to persuade the Maoists to give up the path of violence and join the mainstream. The social outreach programme to connect with the Maoist affected villages too was paying dividends.” On the point of rehabilitation package for the Maoists who surrendered on Wednesday, the ADG said that a mechanism was in place for the purpose and the district-level committee that includes the DM as well as the SSP would take a call on the rehabilitation package issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/supply-chain-of-maoists-effectively-broken-adg/articleshow/77268961.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Patna||More restrictions under Unlock 3.0 in Bihar||PATNA: The state government on Thursday issued fresh orders for Unlock 3.0, imposing further restrictions outside containment zones till August 16. Night curfew between 10pm and 5am will remain effective and malls and religious places will remain shut till August 16. Shops will be allowed to open with certain restrictions as per the orders of district magistrates concerned. All transport services will remain suspended with some exceptions like domestic flights and train. Autorickshaws and taxis will also be permitted to ply in the state. Private vehicles will be allowed for permitted activities. Private offices have also been allowed to operate with 50% staff strength. All educational, training, research and coaching institutions will remain closed. Online and distance learning will be allowed. Hospitals and other healthcare facilities will function normally. Gyms and park will remain closed. As per the order issued by state home department, these restrictions will remain in force in state headquarter, district headquarters, sub-divisional headquarters, block headquarters and all municipal areas. Earlier, the home department had issued orders on July 14 for statewide lockdown from July 16, which will end on Friday night. While most commercial and private establishments were closed as per the previous order, the fresh orders have allowed such activities with several exceptions. For instance, shops and markets will be allowed to operate subject to restrictions regarding staggering and timing among other curbs imposed by district administration, as deemed necessary. Similarly, the previous order had prohibited all offices of state and central government with certain exceptions, such as police, home guard, fire services, defence and central armed forces. All other government offices were allowed to operate with 33% staff strength. However, the order issued on Thursday has allowed all offices of central and state governments along with their autonomous and subordinate offices with 50% staff. Important offices like police, home guard and central armed forces have been allowed to operate with full staff strength. Other relaxations in the fresh orders include allowing all construction and agriculture activities, along with functioning of related shops. However, all social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious gathering and opening of parks and gymnasiums will remain prohibited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/more-restrictions-under-unlock-3-0/articleshow/77269016.cms||Piyush Tripathi
July 31, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Railway building threatens to derail royal palace’s beauty||VADODARA: A sprawling lush green garden of a 106-year-old Gaekwadi era palace faces threat of extinction with the railways proposing a multi-storey building at the spot. The project proposed by the railways has irked the royal Gaekwad family that has initiated an online petition to stop construction of the building planned opposite the Pratap Vilas Palace. The palace, which was constructed by Maharaja Sayajirao Gaekwad III, is owned by the railways since 1961. On Thursday, Shubhanginiraje Gaekwad, Radhikaraje Gaekwad and Samarjitsinh Gaekwad started the online petition that was signed by many Barodians and circulated on social media.. Talking to TOI, Radhikaraje said the family is very upset with the building project as it would ruin the aesthetic value of the palace located near Lalbaug. “We have learnt that a new building is being planned in the sprawling garden right opposite the palace. Named ‘Raja Baug’, this garden doesn’t just provide open space but also gives an elegant look to the palace,” she said. “A new concrete building opposite the palace will certainly destroy the façade, landscape and beauty of this landmark. We have learnt that the new building will accommodate National Rail and Transportation Institute (NRTI) and other offices. Markings have also been done on the ground. We want the railways to stop this project right away,” Radhikaraje said. When contacted, a senior NRTI official confirmed that a building is being proposed on the garden opposite the palace. “But we don’t have much details about the project,” he said. The palace premises is home to India’s first-ever railway university that was inaugurated by PM Narendra Modi in 2018. The National Academy of Indian Railways (NAIR) is also located in this palace. At present, NRTI functions from another building in the same premises even as authorities are still scouting for land to build a greenfield campus. She added that the royal family will also write to the concerned authorities and appeal to save this heritage property. The railways have been using this garden for organizing their events and convocations for years. Radhikaraje suggested that the new building can be constructed on ‘Oval Ground’ that is located near the palace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/railway-bldg-threatens-to-derail-royal-palaces-beauty/articleshow/77267838.cms||Tushar Tere
July 31, 2020||Business||Bezos unsure on seller data’s use, sparks concerns in India||BENGALURU: Amazon founder and CEO Jeff Bezos can’t “guarantee” if the e-tailer has not used third-party seller data to aid its private label business, even though it has a policy against the practice, he said at a US Congressional hearing on Wednesday. While Bezos’s comments were about his US business, similar concerns have been raised in India by third-party sellers and smaller offline traders. In fact, the Indian government has asked online retailers not to indulge in anti-competitive practices and recently mentioned ‘inclusive’ growth in its draft e-commerce policy, indicating offline traders should not get hit by the growth of e-commerce. “We have a policy against using seller-specific data to aid our private label business. But I can’t guarantee you that policy has never been violated,” Bezos, the richest man in the world, said. He was speaking during the US Congress hearing on ‘Big Tech’ and anti-competition, where the CEOs of Google, Facebook and Apple also testified. According to Bezos, the company is investigating the matter, which was first reported by the Wall Street Journal. In India too, e-commerce players have been pushing their private labels, which sellers and industry executives say are often made cheaper than other brands. This makes it harder for independent sellers to compete with those prices. Overall, in-house labels’ contribution to total sales ranges from high single digits to early double digits. For example, Amazon India’s in-house labels include Solimo, Symbol and Presto, while Flipkart’s own brands are SmartBuy and MarQ. In India, there is additional competition from sellers backed by or closely working with e-commerce platforms, said Mohit Anand, an online seller. Entities like Cloudtail, Appario and TechConnect are some of the largest sellers on Amazon India and Walmart-owned Flipkart. Both these e-tailers maintain their policies are not biased against third-party sellers and don’t favour their own brands. “Rules are meant only for sellers, while the platforms exploit those rules for anti-competitive practices. Reforms are the need of the hour in our industry, and we can’t keep depending on self-regulation. Amazon India, as well as Flipkart, are openly indulging in wilful and systemic exploitation of sellers selling on the platform. Our government has remained silent on this issue,” said a spokesperson of Aiova, a group of small sellers. “Sellers are forced with no option, as someone said during the hearing (in the US). In India, we don’t have any other option apart from selling to the ‘alpha-sellers’, or preferred sellers, who move most e-commerce orders,” added Anand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bezos-unsure-on-seller-datasuse-sparks-concerns-in-india/articleshow/77270586.cms||Digbijay Mishra
July 31, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: Triple murder mystery solved with arrest of six men||VARANASI: With the arre3st of six persons on Thursday, Varranasi police claimed to have solved the mystery of a triple murder case that came to light a year ago. A group of men murdered an insurance agent Sumit Srivastava of Manduadih in October last year in order to grab Rs 4.73 lakh from his bank account. Later, to evade police, the five arrested on Thursday along with two other accomplices murdered their own companions Raju and Brijesh Vishwakarma. The mastermind of the triple murder, Abhishek Jaiswal, who is the son of killed mafia Munna Bajrangi’s most trusted aide Kripa Chawdhary, had left misled the police due to which three innocents were sent behind bars. SSP Amit Pathak, while producing the arrested accused before reporters on Thursday, said, “Six accused including Abhishek, Ramvilas Patel, Shashikant alias Jawani, Vikas Patel, Pankaj Patel and Nilkanth alias Shivam Jaiswal have been arrested so far, while two others—Saurabh alias Lalu and Sonu Modanwal—are yet to be nabbed. Cash worth Rs 2.48 lakh, mobile phones of Sumit and Brijesh, two motorcycles and a cas used in disposing the body of Sumit had also been recovered.” According to Pathak, a year back, Sumit had got a loan sanctioned from a bank after which Rs 4.73 lakh were transferred to his account. Sumit shared this information with his colleague Nilkanth, who passed it on to Abhishek. Nilkanth and Abhishek planned to grab hiis money along with Saurabh. Later, they included Vikas, Pankaj, Shashikant and Ramvilas in their plan. As per their plan, Sumit was taken to the pumping set of Vikas, which was located in lonely place in Korauta village of Lohta area. There, they strangulated Sumit on October 23. After taking his mobile phone, ATM and Aadhaar card, they carried his body Ramvilas’s car and dumped it in the jungle of Rajgarh in Mirzapur district. However, they all failed to withdraw money from Sumit’s account, said Pathak. Abhishek then added two more men—Raju and Brijesh—in the plan. With the help of Saurabh, money from Sumit’s account was transferred to the accounts of Raju and Brijesh. This online money transfer alerted cops and they started looking for Raju and Brijesh. Fearing Brijesh would reveal their names to the police if arrested, Abhishek called Brijesh and stangulated him with his accomplices. They then dumped his body in the Ganga near Mauni Baba ki Kutyiya area on November 7. Two days after recovery of Brijesh’s body, his family lodged a named FIR against six persons. Following these developments, Abhishek and his accomplices called Raju and asked him to hand over the money transferred to his account. When Raju refused and threatened to report the matter to the police, they killed him and dumped his body in the Ganga in Chunar area of Mirzapur district. Pathak said that Abhishek and his accomplices involved in the triple murder, maintained silence for several months. On Wednesday, however, they gathered to divide the money collected from Sumit’s account. At the same time, the joint team of Manduadih and Rohania police nabbed six of them. Investigations revealed that Abhishek is the son of Kripa Chawdhary, who was eliminated in a police encounter several years back, while his brother-in-law Rajesh Chawdhary had also been killed in a gang war. Kripa was known as the mastermind of Bajrangi gang who also recruited new shooters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/triple-murder-mystery-solved-with-arrest-of-six-men/articleshow/77272052.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Patna||'Mother unlikely to pass on coronavirus to newborn'||PATNA: Pregnancy is a stressful time for would-be mothers and the Covid-19 pandemic has only added to their worries. The situation is worse for pregnant women, who have tested positive for Covid-19. They are not only worried about the impact of the virus on their new-born child’s health, they are also confused whether to go for natural delivery or opt for Caesarean Section to avoid the transmission of this virus. However, in what may give confidence to would-be mothers in the city, an global research paper published in ‘BJOG: An international journal of obstetrics and gynecology’, in June this year, has found that the majority of babies born out of Covid-19 positive mothers were neither positive nor symptomatic. The research included 49 studies from different countries and data on 655 Covid-19 positive women was collected. These women gave birth to 666 children of whom 292 children were born vaginally and 374 were Caesarean babies. Ten underwent Caesarean birth for twins and one woman had vaginal birth of both twins. It was found that 28 children had tested positive for the virus and they account for 4% of the total birth. Of these positive children, eight were born vaginally (2.7%) and 20 were born by caesarean (5.3%). This international study has been further supported by deliveries by Covid-positive women at AIIMS-Patna. Out of nine live births this month, seven infants have tested negative for the virus, including two who were born vaginally. Thanks to the dedicated team of doctors at AIIMS, all children born of Covid-19 positive mothers are out of danger and are healthy. Dr Mukta Agarwal, additional professor of obstetrics and gynaecologist at AIIMS said, “Eleven Covid-19 positive women had come to the hospital and nine alive children were born. While one four month pregnancy got terminated as the woman had fallen down while another woman gave birth to a still born.” She added, “We do not know the reason behind this stillbirth. The lady came to us after the baby’s movement had stopped. She was diabetic and also had a history of hypertension.” She further said of the total 11 deliveries, eight were Caesarean and three normal deliveries. Also two newborns who had tested positive for Covid-19 were caesarean babies. “That means vertical transmission should not be a mode of transmission, though studies are still going on. In the case of HIV, virus passes from mother to child. So far, most of the babies born from Covid-19 positive mothers have tested negative,” said Dr Agarwal. She appreciated her team for trying their best to help the women during this pandemic and added, “Most women who have come to us were denied treatment and deliveries at other hospitals. We take full precaution during delivery.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pregnant-women-unlikely-to-pass-on-coronavirus-to-babies-study/articleshow/77269112.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 31, 2020||Patna||Ahead of Bakrid, goat sellers stare at losses in Patna||PATNA: Goat sellers in the city are staring at huge losses this year in the run up to Bakrid due to low turnout of customers at the traditional cattle market at Raja Bazaar amid Covid-19 pandemic. The three-day Bakrid celebrations would begin from August 1 depending on the sighting of the crescent moon. Md Ziaullah Khan, coordinator of cattle market at Raja Bazaar, said only 30-35% goats could be sold so far as the business was badly hit due to coronavirus. “People are only buying local goats because of their low purchasing power. There is hardly any taker for breeds of goat like ‘Tota Pari’ from Jaipur, ‘Barbari’ from Etawah, ‘Jamnapari’ from Allahabad and ‘Ajmeri’ from Rajasthan,” Ziaullah said. He added, “Some people are buying goats in bulk to sell them at high prices in their localities as many people are not willing to come out of their homes due to the pandemic.” Azhar Iqbal, a goat seller from Begusarai, said he sold only 250 goats in last 12 days at the market in Patna. “I reared 900 goats for over a year for the Bakrid festival. Now, I am unable to find buyers,” he said. Hamza, another seller, said people are only buying small goats which are being sold in the range of Rs 8,000 to Rs 10,000. One Mod Shamsher alias Guddu, who reared a dozen of goats at home, said he has not found any buyer yet despite reducing the prices of the animals. Amid lockdown, several people bought cattle online for ‘qurbani’ (sacrifice) ritual. Farhan Khan, a resident of Alamganj, said it was risky to perform sacrificial ritual at home as the butchers would visit several homes on Bakrid. “There are chances that they carry the virus,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ahead-of-bakrid-goat-sellers-stare-at-losses/articleshow/77269129.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 31, 2020||Patna||PMCH to update kin with status of Covid patients||PATNA: The Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) will now issue daily health bulletin of patients admitted in its newly created 100-bed dedicated Covid ward. The latest health status of the Covid patients admitted at the hospital will soon be available at the ‘May I Help You’ desk at 5pm daily. State health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit, who visited PMCH on Thursday, asked the hospital to keep the families or attendants updated on the condition of affected patients every day. PMCH medical superintendent Dr Bimal Karak said Amrit and IAS officer Rajesh Roushan inspected the dedicated Covid ward and control room, interacted with the admitted patients and doctors and directed the hospital administration to expeditiously complete equipping all the 100 beds with required number of ventilators and oxygen pipeline. Presently, 29 Covid patients are admitted at the hospital. Dr Karak urged the principal secretary to appoint 10 medical officers on emergency duty, 20 senior residents and eight anaesthetists for effectively managing the Covid ward that needed round-the-clock duty by medical staff. He said Amrit also suggested development of a system to issue I cards to attendants of Covid patients. As attendants complain of absence of health staff and doctors in the ward leading to suffering of patients in case of sudden physiological changes in them, the hospital has decided to place a call bell connected to the control room, added Dr Karak. PMCH principal Dr V P Choudhary said Amrit has asked the hospital to appoint ward boys through outsourcing. IMA initiative: The state chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Wednesday asked all its units in different districts to step out for giving medical help to people suffering from Covid-19 symptoms and also other diseases caused by floods. The emergent meeting of the IMA executive committee chaired by president Dr Bimal Karak asked the district units to issue helpline numbers for providing medical help in the hours of need.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pmch-to-update-kin-with-status-of-covid-patients/articleshow/77269230.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Patna||Herd immunity may slow down spread of Covid-19, say experts||BHAGALPUR: Experts at Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH), a dedicated Covid hospital in Bhagalpur, have claimed that as soon as 70% herd immunity in humans is attained, Covid-19 infection may slow down. Dr Raj Kamal Choudhary, associate professor in the department of medicine at JLNMCH, said that such assertions are being made on the basis of ‘seroconversion survey’ under the direction of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) by taking random samples in Bhagalpur and other districts of Bihar. Dr Choudhary, who had worked in World Health Organization (WHO) for several years as sub-regional coordinator, said that the human body immune system responds by producing antibodies in response to the virus and this is known as seroconversion. “Antibodies appear within one to two weeks and continue to increase in the months after infection. seroconversion takes place within three weeks in majority of infected individuals and the immune system’s capacity to fight the infection starts increasing,” he said. Deliberating on the findings of the serocoversion study, Dr Choudhary said, “The seroconversion analysis of random samples of human beings, who were asymptomatic for Covid-19, in the past two-months exhibited that 18.6% had antibodies for the virus and was found heading towards herd immunity. If the percentage increases to 70%, then the spread of Covid-19 will slow down.” Dr Choudhary said that approximately 24,000 random samples from different states and union territories (UTs), including Covid hotspot cities like New Delhi, Mumbai, Thane, Goutam Budh Nagar (Noida), Hyderabad, Pune, Kolkata, Indore, Jaipur, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Surat, Patna, Bangalore and Gurugram among others were taken for seroconversion survey. “The data of seroconversion survey was released by Niti Aayog recently,” he said. Dr Choudhary said there is no need to panic about Covid-19 pandemic but rather people need to follow the safety protocol for curbing its spread and keep oneself healthy to boost body immunity. “Herd Immunity in human beings is the resistance to fight a contagious disease. It occurs when a large section of the community becomes immune to a disease. As a result, the spread of disease from person to person becomes unlikely and the whole community becomes protected,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/herd-immunity-may-slow-down-spread-of-covid-19-say-experts/articleshow/77269099.cms||Kumar Rajesh
July 31, 2020||Nagpur||GRP cop dupes sr citizen of Rs 6.5 lakh||NAGPUR: Government railway police woman head constable Kiran Sharma was booked along with her husband Rakesh and one Baba Ali, alias Babakhan, for allegedly duping 63-year-old Laxman Kourate by Rs6.50 lakhs between 2014 and 2016 on the pretext of helping his son and daughter get jobs in the railways. An offence was registered at Ambazari station after prolonged inquiry. It’s learnt three connived to lure Kourate with a promise to help his children get jobs in the railways and took cash Rs4.45 lakhs and another Rs2 lakhs through cheques.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/grp-cop-dupes-sr-citizen-of-rs6-5l/articleshow/77271969.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Business||HDFC Q1 net falls 5% to Rs 3,000 crore||MUMBAI: HDFC reported a net profit of Rs 3,051 crore for the quarter ended June 2020 — a decline of 5% from Rs 3,203 crore in the year-ago period. The corporation said that while retail lending was hit because of the Covid-19 lockdown, the corporation grew its loan book by lending to triple-A-rated corporates. HDFC shares ended almost 4% down at Rs 1,811 following the results. As of date, 16.6% of home loans are under a moratorium, while the number is 22.4% for total loans under management. As on June 30, individual loans comprised 74% of assets under management (AUM). Total disbursements in the first quarter were 71% of what was disbursed in Q1FY20. “We are seeing demand for homes increasing with every passing day. In July, we will disburse more than in June. In June, we disbursed Rs 6,600 crore as compared to Rs 2,300 crore in May. We expect to disburse more in every passing quarter and to be 90-95% of previous year’s disbursals in the January-March 2021 quarter,” said HDFC VC and CEO Keki Mistry. Mistry said that the balance sheet was protected against Covid-related defaults because of past provisions. He added that while there may be a temporary rise in non-performing assets (NPAs), experience with the earlier crisis has shown that when housing demand reached the pre-crisis normal, non-performing loans (NPLs) also normalise. “Of the individual customers who have opted for the moratorium, only 5% faced job losses, 9% faced business closures and the balance have opted for the moratorium, largely to conserve cash, for health reasons or due to anticipation or reduction in salary/business income,” said Mistry. Speaking at the HDFC AGM, HDFC chairman Deepak Parekh said that one of the reasons why the corporation was looking to raise capital of Rs 14,000 crore was to explore acquisition opportunities for subsidiaries. He said that he expected demand for small houses to go up and that agriculture would lead the economic recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hdfc-q1-net-falls-5-to-rs-3k-cr/articleshow/77270860.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Allahabad||Recovery rate dips as 239 more test Covid +ve in Allahabad||PRAYAGRAJ: Novel coronavirus (Covid-19) cases in the city registered another highest single-day surge on Thursday as 239 more residents were diagnosed with the disease in Prayagraj. The new cases took the tally 2,240. On Thursday, 37 more Covid-19 patients recovered and were discharged from different hospitals in the city. Nodal officer and additional chief medical officer Dr Rishi Sahai said, “As many as 239 persons tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. The patients were between the ages of 12 and 76 years. Most of the patients had contracted the disease after coming in contact with an infected person.” Till now, 1,050 persons have recovered and discharged from Covid-19 hospitals in the city. On Wednesday, the city’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 2000-mark as 149 more persons tested positive for the disease. The city has recorded 50 deaths due to the virus till now. Moreover, the rise in Covid-19 cases has also led to a slide in recovery rate at 46% on July 30. The recovery rate in June was 72%. Health department officials said that over 1,000 cases were recorded in the past 10 days sending alarm bells ringing. They said that the department has launched a sample collection drive in villages, blocks and urban areas of the city to speed up testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/recovery-rate-dips-as-239-more-test-covid-ve-in-city/articleshow/77271278.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Goa||Goa: For first time after lockdown, some churches open for Mass||PANAJI: For the first time since March, the doors of a few churches in Goa were opened for Sunday Mass. Benches were replaced with chairs, statues were removed, holy water founts were kept dry, and sanitisers were installed at all entry and exit points. The congregations, too, looked different. They were armed with masks, tokens and age proof, they sat six feet apart on chairs, and were only let in after volunteers at the door checked their temperature. “We asked those interested in attending Mass to collect tokens from the church office after providing their name, address and phone number for our record,” said Aldona parish priest Fr Tomas Lobo. “Only those with tokens were allowed to enter.” There were only 48 chairs in the church. In Galgibaga, parish priest Fr Santana D’Souza posted a video on social media telling his parishioners they were under no compulsion to attend Mass just because they were reopening the church. “Unfortunately, it is the senior citizens who are regulars in church,” he said. “They asked me why there were no Masses for them, I didn’t discourage them. I just told them to wait.” D’Souza’s video said no persons under 10 or above 65 should come to church. The churches were only permitted to reopen after obtaining written permission from the Archbishop’s house. A team was first put in place to ensure the Archdiocese’s strict SOPs were met, and that everything was in place. “This is a situation in which we have to take bold steps,” said Lobo. “Our coordinating team will meet regularly and evaluate the situation and take decisions accordingly. If there’s a need to postpone or defer mass, we will.” These precautions mean very few people in church. For instance, the St Anthony church in Galgibaga, which has a capacity of over 500 persons, saw 40 on Sunday, said D’Souza, who added that Mass would now be a daily affair in his parish. He said his church got written permission to reopen after it adhered to all instructions of Archdiocese representatives who came to inspect it. “We’re looking forward to celebrating the feast of the nativity of the Blessed Virgin Mary on September 8,” he said. D’Souza also said that a responsibility towards people’s health is behind the church allowing very few people. “It should be a gradual reopening,” he said. “We are happy to have our people back. It’s not easy to concentrate on Mass online.” Meanwhile in Loliem, parish priest of St Sebastian Fr Sydney Dias church said the reopening has been a joyful occasion. “We are thrilled to celebrate Mass for the people, but we’re being very cautious too,” he said. Responding to concerns about rising Covid cases, he said, “people have no problem going to the market or the mall. The market is jam-packed. Church representatives used a measuring tape to ensure 6-feet distancing.” He also said it’s probably safer to come to church than to go to the market. “Why show fear only when going to church?” he asked. “We’re taking all precautions. How is it safe to gather in the market but not safe to go to church?” Even as some church reopened, Holy Communion, an essential part of the Mass, was distributed to the faithful after the final blessing, so the parishioner could recive the host and leave the church.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/for-first-time-after-lockdown-some-churches-open-for-mass/articleshow/77841848.cms||Lisa Monteiro
July 31, 2020||Nagpur||Few tests ahead for school edu changes: Experts||Nagpur: Academicians and former education department officials have welcomed the sweeping changes under New Education Policy (NEP) but have also expressed concerns over implementation of some parts of it. Right from bringing in pre-primary sections (anganwadis etc) under the fold of formal education, to aggressive perusal of teaching in local languages and efforts of ending ‘coaching culture’, NEP aims to overhaul the system completely. Anita Gajbhiye, an anganwadi sevika, said their salary level needs to rise as well to ensure high standards being expected by the government. “We get Rs8,500 per month and are going to anganwadis daily, ensuring that children are getting food and education. We had to fight for years just to get a measly Rs1,000-1,500 as increment. I hope NEP takes care of that,” said Gajbhiye. According to her colleague Jyoti Undersahare, they won’t be able to afford the upgrade of academic qualification under NEP. “It’s important that the government sponsors it,” said Undersahare. For private pre-primary section players, will the challenge will be now of aligning their pedagogies with that of a nationally approved one? A veteran in Early Childhood Care and Education (ECCE) for almost three decades, Kalpana Dhareshwar says that NEP seems aligned with the ground realities. “I went through NEP document in detail and it’s a match with what we have been doing. They are focusing on learning outcomes and that aligns with what pre-school is all about. Some challenges might be there but I am pleased that the government has recognized ECCE as an integral part of education,” said Dhareshwar who heads all branches of Mothers Pet Kindergarten. Sonal Fuke, director of Toddlers Creek, says good policies need good implementation. “Pre-primary is all about methodology of teaching, as content is same. I believe government is planning by taking early childhood experts into confidence, hence the final pedagogy will be aligned with what most of us are implementing,” said Fuke. Teaching in regional or home (what’s spoken at home) language is to be encouraged till primary level, as per NEP. Sundip Gaikwad, principal of a Marathi school, said, “As it is teachers switch between Hindi and the language of instruction. It’s a normal thing at many schools and I do not agree that a policy needs to be formulated for this.” NEP also comes down heavily against “coaching culture”, which was something the institutes did not agree with. Tanjit Chhabra, admissions head of Resonance (Nagpur), said, “This is pre-conceived opinion of government. Form policies without doing proper spade work and cause more harm. This is exactly what happened when MHRD introduced JEE main and advanced and scrapped AIEEE, and by introducing top 20 percentile criteria for Std XII board. Here the repercussions are yet to be analysed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/few-tests-ahead-for-school-edu-changes-experts/articleshow/77270380.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 31, 2020||Nagpur||Asymptomatic wife refused entry, societies shun others||Nagpur: A Covid-19 positive woman was wrongfully advised to report that she had mild fever and dry cough, despite being permitted home isolation at Koradi power plant (KTPS) staff quarters colony on Thursday. She had travel history and was isolated for testing at the makeshift quarantine centre in the colony premises. She tested positive but could not be shifted to a hospital because of the revised norms for asymptomatic patients — advising home isolation. Her husband allegedly refused to let her isolate at their staff quarters home, fearing spread of infection to him and their kid. TOI couldn’t confirm the whereabouts of the woman till the time of going to press.An official said the woman was seen on the premises till noon. “We don’t know whether she returned to the quarantine centre or was taken in,” the official said. The KTPS PRO directed TOI to chief engineer Rajesh Patil, who didn’t answer TOI’s calls and messages. On the same day, a KTPS employee was denied entry by the colony’s office-bearer. The official was deputed on a 15-day rotation basis at quarantine centres and Covid Care Centres (CCCs) to look after administrative work, but got infected. The official then called up CCC officials to gain entry in his staff quarters home. It took a lot of convincing from the CCC officials to let him isolate at home, as he was screened as an asymptomatic patient. A source from the colony told TOI that residents are opposed to home isolation of positive patients. On Tuesday too, several screened asymptomatic patients from the colony had to wait outside and were allowed inside after a heated exchange that lasted for two hours. “When we warned of calling the police, they agreed,” a patient said. Tehsildar Arvind Hinge said a case from the colony was referred to him, and the person was permitted to undertake home isolation in the premises after his intervention. “Anyone facing opposition can approach the tehsil office; we will help resolve such problems,” he said. The colony’s reluctance to allow patients has been attributed to the “positive” remark on discharge cards. “These will clinically remain positive till 28 days. Since the new policy came in force, we are compelled to discharge them but can’t write Covid negative in their papers,” doctors said. In Nandanwan, a couple of families allegedly misguided NMC zonal officials who had come to paste alert stickers, as per new norms of home isolation. In the same area, the returned patients had a tough time when they reached home, facing opposition from society office-bearers, neighbours and relatives. “People are scared and feel the home isolated patients will spread the infection. But they don’t need to worry as this has become very common now,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/asymptomatic-wife-refused-entry-societies-shun-others/articleshow/77270400.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 31, 2020||Nagpur||Malls can reopen from Aug 5, gyms to stay closed||Nagpur: A day after Maharashtra government issued Mission Begin Again guidelines, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation on Thursday issued its own guidelines allowing reopening of shopping malls within city limits from August 5. Though NMC made no changes to the state government notification, it has allowed liquor shops to remain open up to 7pm from 5pm earlier but continue in home delivery mode onlyu.District collector Ravindra Thakare will issue the revised guidelines for rest of the district soon. Malls and market complexes can open from 9am to 7pm daily. However, cinema theatres inside them will remain closed. Food courts and restaurants can only offer take aways/home delivery through aggregators. Other shops will open on alternate days as per their facing direction within the mall, officials said.Municipal Commissioner Tukaram Mundhe has not permitted opening of gyms in the city. According to a senior NMC officer, with rise in Covid-19 cases, allowing gyms was considered high risk. The civic chief has kept the movement of people in taxi, autorickshaw, four-wheeler and two-wheeler flexible. NMC’s revised guidelines allowed one plus three persons in taxis and two passengers in autorickshaws. Wearing of mask will be compulsory in public spaces. The new guidelines also allowed pillion rider on two-wheeler with the condition of both the riders wearing helmet and mask. He also did not allow shops to open daily and retained the odd-even day formula. For government offices, the guidelines allowed functioning with 15% staff strength or 15 persons, whichever is higher. For all private offices, they can operate up to 10% strength or 10 people, whichever is higher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/malls-can-reopen-from-aug-5-gyms-to-stay-closed/articleshow/77270377.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 31, 2020||Goa||Cong goes to guv palace, protests ‘toppling’ moves||Panaji: Congress functionaries on Thursday walked towards Raj Bhavan to protest against the BJP’s use of constitutional authorities and “nefarious means” to topple Congress-ruled state governments. The party’s state leadership met with governor Satya Pal Malik and submitted a memorandum urging president Ram Nath Kovind to ensure that Constitutional provisions are upheld. The party said that instead of focusing on the Covid-19 pandemic, the economic crisis and China’s aggression along the eastern border, the BJP and the Centre are “actively engaged in toppling democratically elected governments” in Manipur, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and now in Rajasthan. “The silence of constitutional institutions vis-a-vis these developments is not only deafening, but most baffling in nature,” said opposition leader Digambar Kamat. Amid the global health crisis, a political crisis is unfolding in Rajasthan with a strong rift emerging within the Congress. The party has accused the BJP of using nefarious means to engineer a shift of Congress MLAs in Rajasthan and prompting them to resign. “If the efforts of the BJP to capture power undemocratically and unconstitutionally are not contained timely, it will be a severe blow to our democracy and all of the hallowed tenets laid down in the Constitution,” said state party president Girish Chodankar. Chodankar said that the BJP’s greed for political gains has seen the Union government using muscle power, money power and law enforcement agencies to threaten and lure opposition MLAs to resign and join the BJP. “We request you to issue necessary instructions to the concerned to desist from destroying our democracy and to safeguard the Constitution of India,” said South Goa Congress MP Francisco Sardinha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-goes-to-guv-palace-protests-toppling-moves/articleshow/77271995.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Three burglars, including 2 minors, held at Golconda||HYDERABAD: A 19-year-old burglar and two of his associates, both juveniles, were arrested in nine burglary cases at Golconda on Wednesday. The trio was spotted by Golconda PS patrolling team during the early hours of Wednesday at King Pan shop in Golconda. Two of the accused pretended to be asleep while the third was trying to break into the shop. Cops took the trio into custody and they confessed that they were trying to commit theft at King Pan shop. On interrogation, the three confessed to have committed nine thefts and burglaries during the past few months at Moinabad, Mylardevpally, Charminar, Narsingi and Golconda areas. Police seized a scooter, a bike, cigarettes and gutkha packets, all worth Rs 2 lakh from the possession of the trio. Police produced one of the gang members, J Shetty, 19, of Gudimalkapur before a magistrate for judicial remand, while the two juveniles were produced before the juvenile court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-burglars-including-2-minors-held/articleshow/77272002.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Lucknow||Rs 200cr of Covid Care Fund used on med tools & drugs||Lucknow: The government has received Rs 412 crore in the Covid Care Fund till now of which Rs 344 crore has already been spent. This includes Rs 200 crore on medical equipment and medicines and Rs 153 on migrant workers. After CM Yogi Adityanath reviewed the fund on Thursday, additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said that of Rs 200 crore spent on medicines and equipment, Rs 33.52 crore has been approved for 100 thermal scanners, 13,000 infrared thermometers, 3,84,080 N-95 masks and 3,63,280 PPE kits. He said that more than Rs 31.42 crore had been approved for increasing testing in KGMU, SGPGI, and BRD medical college, Gorakhpur, while Rs 15.73 crore had been cleared for purchasing 121 ventilators for 21 medical colleges. “Rs 6.14 crore has been approved for nucleic acid extraction system in six state medical colleges and five hospitals, including KGMU, SGPGI and RML in Lucknow, GIMS in Greater Noida, AIIMS in Etawah, Kanpur Medical College, Agra Medical College, Prayagraj Medical College Meerut Medical College and Jhansi Medical College. Another Rs 6.14 crore has been spent on their establishment,” Awasthi said. He added that Rs 13.5 crore had been approved for improvement of BSL-2 and BSL-3 labs in AIIMS Greater Noida, Super Specialty Children's Hospital in Noida andShahjahanpur Medical College, while Rs 19.40 crore has been cleared for establishment of BSL-2 labs in district hospitals in Moradabad, Bareilly, VIndhyachal and Gonda,Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospitals in Varanasi and Aligarh and state medical colleges in Jalaun, Ambedkarnagar, Saharanpur, Banda, Badaun, Azamgarh, and government medical colleges in Ayodhya, Firozabad, Basti and Bahraich. The government has spent Rs 4.10 crore for 14 ultrasound machines, Rs 34.90 crore for 10 hemodialysis machines, RO systems and Rs 5.55 crore for digital x-ray machines in 11 colleges. Another Rs 4.43 crore has been spent on Truenat testing machines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rs-200cr-of-covid-care-fund-used-on-med-tools-drugs/articleshow/77272607.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Goa||Pramod Sawant lauds new education policy||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday said that the new education policy 2020 is focussed on developing youth in the era of globalisation.  “The #NewEducationPolicy as approved by the Union Cabinet under the leadership of prime minister Narendra Modi would lay a strong foundation for building a New India,” Sawant tweeted. “I am glad that we are moving towards a knowledge and skill-based education system with a holistic approach of developing our youth in this era of globalisation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-lauds-new-education-policy/articleshow/77271976.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Kochi||Krishna Pillai memorial attack case: All five accused acquitted||ALAPPUZHA: The Alappuzha district and sessions court judge A Badharudeen on Thursday acquitted all the five accused –– Latheesh B Chandran, P Sabu, Deepu Chellikandathil, Rajesh Rajan and Pramod Vadakkechira –– in the P Krishna Pillai memorial attacking case due to lack of evidence. All of them were the activists of the CPM and were ousted from the party after the incident. The attempt to burn down the memorial of Pillai, a founder of Communist movement in Kerala, was made on the morning of October 31, 2013. Pillai’s thatched house, where he died on August 14, 1948, due to snakebite while in hiding, was also gutted in the attack. Though local police launched a probe, the state government later handed it over to crime branch (CB). While Latheesh is a former personal staff of VS Achuthanandan, P Sabu is the former secretary of CPM Kannarkattu local committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/krishna-pillai-memorial-attack-case-all-five-accused-acquitted/articleshow/77270540.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Pune||Most Pune hospitals did not update bed info: Activist||PUNE: Most private hospitals treating Covid-19 in the city did not update bed vacancy data every two hours on Thursday despite being asked to do so by officials. The divisional commissioner's office had issued orders on Wednesday asking hospitals to ensure bed availability data is uploaded every two hours on the dashboard set up for Pune region. There have been complaints that this resource is being updated only twice a day. Medical practitioner and health activist Sanjay Dabhade said, “On Thursday, I tracked updates from hospitals with the maximum number of ICU beds. I found that most hospitals updated their status just twice or three times between 2pm and 9pm.” Bharati hospital, one of the city’s four designated Covid-19 hospitals, had updated its bed vacancy status three times between 10.30pm and 8pm on Thursday, said Dabhade. Jitendra Oswal, deputy medical director of Bharati, said, “We inducted a few more beds on Thursday. This led to some lag in updates. We will be able to follow the two-hourly update rule on the dashboard from Friday.” Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital (DMH), one of the city’s biggest Covid units, had updated its status of beds twice between 11.30am and 8pm on Thursday, said Dabhade. Dhananjay Kelkar, medical director, DMH said, “I will talk to staffers involved in dashboard updation. But bed availability does not change so frequently, like every two hours.” In Pimpri Chinchwad limits too, many designated hospitals, did not follow the two-hour rule. The three big hospitals, when checked at 8 pm, had updated bed-availability only after 6pm. Some others had last updated the information on Thursday morning and in some cases, the day before. Maruti Bhapkar, a social activist, said, “Patients have been struggling to find beds these days. The information on bed vacancies should be updated frequently by hospitals and the administration should also monitor availability frequently.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/most-hosps-did-not-update-bed-info-activist/articleshow/77272005.cms||Umesh Isalkar
July 31, 2020||Delhi||NEP: Playschools can no longer slip under regulatory radar||NEW DELHI: With the new National Education Policy recognising early childhood care and education (ECCE) and changing the school system from a 10+2 to a laddered 5+3+3+4 structure, the unregulated playschools will no longer function in the grey area. These schools are now required to follow the curriculum designed by National Council for Educational Research and Training. Playschools or pre-schools, some run by private schools and the others by individuals, cater to children before they enter formal schools. With regulation, these have mushroomed across the city, taking in children who are two years or older. In Delhi, formal schooling starts in nursery when the student is 3+. The only regulatory guidelines for these institutes were issued by National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights. NEP now gives them formal recognition, calling the pre-school to Class II the foundational segment of education, according to Ameeta Mulla Wattal, principal, Springdales School, Pusa Road. Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School, added, “My understanding is that these pre-schools now have to follow the guidelines and curriculum because everything will be based on learning outcomes.” This also means, said Jyoti Arora, principal, Mount Abu Public School, that playschools “might have to make changes in the way they function”. Vibha Kumar, who runs Little Creative Minds Playschool in Greater Kailash, was concerned about what NEP implied for her institute. “I have not gone through the policy document, but I hear a lot of people are angry. If they take away pre-nursery classes from the informal sector, the business will be hurt,” she said. “Local playschools are very convenient for the parents, and, of course, they are a huge business. It is also important to clarify the age aspect. We currently have kids joining us at the age of 2+.” The nursery level became part of Delhi government schools only in 2015. Earlier, of the 1,100 government schools, around 420 provided primary education beginning from Class I. Now, just 100 of the 420 are yet to offer nursery classes. Even the municipal corporation schools have started nursery sections. The anganwadi institutes are expected to provide the prescribed ECCE up to the age of five years. However, these can either be standalone anganwadis or anganwadis co-located with primary schools or even pre-primary schools/sections covering at least students aged 5-6 years co-located with existing primary schools. In addition, there will be standalone preschools. It is the anganwadi workers who will be trained to provide this early education. However, there are questions about the differences that would mark the education of students attending early education in anganwadis and in private pre-schools. Atishi, former advisor to Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia, cautioned about a “dichotomy that will be problematic”. She said, “A child taught by an anganwadi worker who will most probably be a Class 12 pass person and another taught by a trained teacher will show marked differences in their learnings.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/playschools-can-no-longer-slip-under-regulatory-radar/articleshow/77293303.cms||Shradha Chettri
July 31, 2020||Nagpur||NMC centralized desk at MLA Hostel to guide +ve patients||Nagpur: Finally, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has started to develop a centralized desk for screening and regulating Covid-19 positive patients at MLA Hostel Covid Care Centre (CCC). The desk is likely to start operations from Friday.TOI had on Thursday reported lack of regulation as well as screening of positive patients due to lack of centralized desk. Since home isolation was implemented on Monday, many positive patients had no idea where to go, whom to contact or steps to be taken. Some had approached NMC and some preferred taking help of public representatives to remain in home isolation or get admitted in private hospitals or state government-run isolation wards.Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe directed NMC officials to develop a centralized desk.Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi told TOI, “It is being set up at MLA Hostel, which is centrally situated. We have appointed two doctors, lab technician and other staff. ECG machine has been moved from Indira Gandhi Hospital to centralized desk. It is likely to start from Friday.”After testing positive, all patients will have to come to the centralized desk. Temperature and oxygen saturation level will be taken followed by inquiry about any diseases. ECG of patients will be done followed by collection of blood samples for various types of tests. The patients have to wait in rooms at MLA Hostel CCC till the reports come in. Based on the reports, the patients will be declared asymptomatic or symptomatic.Joshi added asymptomatic patients will be given option of going for home isolation or stay in CCC, or CCC in private hotels. “Patients with moderate symptoms will be admitted at Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DCHC) and those with more symptoms in Dedicated Covid Hospital (DCH). All 10 zone offices will be sent list of patients allowed for home isolation for regular monitoring. The patients can call NMC Control Room for any further details,” he said.The NMC has tied up for blood testing with state-of-the-art pathology laboratory started by Tata Trusts in association with it at Sadar.NMC sources said asymptomatic positive patients from slums will be admitted at CCC, as they may not have isolation facilities at their homes. “Decision on asymptomatic senior citizens and children will taken on case-by-case basis by doctors at centralized desk,” sources said.MLC and corporator Pravin Datke welcomed the decision. “Portable X-ray machine should also be made available at centralized desk. Even patients who wish to get admitted in private hospitals should also be regulated from the desk,” he said.For last four days, NMC was sending list of positive patients to 10 zone offices. Each zone has only 25 staffers to take care of containment zones, contact tracing, CCC/quarantine centres and also health centres. They were also asked to screen and guide positive patients in home isolation, and monitor them, which resulted in chaos. In case of wrong numbers or problems in contact details, doctors and nurses were unable to reach many patients.Also, NMC medical staff was only checking temperature and oxygen saturation level, which is not sufficient to certify patient as asymptomatic.It is not clear whether the centralized desk will also regulate patients of Nagpur rural. Zilla parishad (ZP) is admitting asymptomatic patients at CCCs developed at 13 tehsil headquarters. It will become difficult for positive patients to come to the centralized desk and then return to CCCs or home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-centralized-desk-at-mla-hostel-to-guide-ve-patients/articleshow/77270425.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 31, 2020||Nagpur||District crosses 5k Covid cases, last 1k came in 4 days||Nagpur: The number of Covid-19 cases in the district crossed 5,000 on Thursday. The latest 1,000 cases were registered in four days.On Thursday, 342 persons tested positive taking the district’s tally to 5,134. It took 96 days for the first 1,000 positive cases followed by 25 days for second 1,000 cases. In July, the number of cases started to rise fast. The third 1,000 cases came in 12 days and fourth 1,000 cases in six days.The district had recorded 1,505 cases in 112 days between March 11 and June 30. In 30 days of July, 3,629 cases were registered.Compared with other districts in the state, the situation is better in Nagpur district. Among 35 districts, Nagpur is 10th to cross 5,000 cases but 1st among 11 Vidarbha districts. As far as population is concerned, Nagpur stands at fifth place in state.Mumbai has highest cases at 1,13,199 followed by Thane 91,784, Pune 86,225, Raigad 16,161, Palghar 15,278, Nashik 14,295, Aurangabad 13,732, Jalgaon 10,438 and Solapur 8,873. Among latest 1,134 cases, highest 150 cases were from Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) drives. To detect cases and treat them from initial stage NMC had started testing of all Influenza Like Illness (ILI) patients visiting NMC health centres. Consequently, 37 of total 560 tested here came positive.In another proactive measure, the civic body had started special camps for testing high-risk persons in non-containment zones, which led to 3,149 persons being tested, of which 113 were positive.Kamptee contributed second highest 102 cases in cases in July. Total number of cases from this town increased to 414 and likely to surpass Mominpura-Timki-Golibar Chowk-Bhankheda, which have 438 cases. In Kamptee too, zilla parishad had started special testing centres.Remaining cases are from various localities in the city and Nagpur rural. The number of cases is 3,505 followed by 1,414 in Nagpur rural, 107 from other districts and states; and 108 in dispute for finalization of areas.The positivity rate of the district increased to 6.75% and was 6.39% when it crossed 4,000 cases on July 26. It is much less compared to positivity rate of state (19.89%). Total samples tested in the district as on Thursday are 76,021.Major worry for the district is steep rise in number of Covid-19 deaths. The deaths have increased to 118 from 83 when 4,000 cases were registered. The mortality rate is 2.29%, which is higher than national rate (2.12%) and lower than state (3.58%).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/district-crosses-5k-covid-cases-last-1k-came-in-4-days/articleshow/77270454.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 15 new private hospitals roped in for Covid||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has decided to designate 15 new private hospitals as ‘Covid hospital’ and permitted them to admit Covid patients on private basis on all of their beds, according to the charges fixed on June 1. The decision was taken at a meeting held at Riverfront House on Thursday. Rajiv Gupta, additional chief secretary, forests and environment, who has been put in charge of controlling Covid-19 in Ahmedabad, said the decision to permit these hospital to admit 100% of patients on private basis was taken as the number of patients from Ahmedabad district and proximate districts was increasing. “To ensure there are facilities to treat more patients from other parts of the district and state, the AMC has designated 15 more hospitals as Covid hospitals, adding another 500 beds, including those in high dependency units, ICUs and those equipped with ventilators.” These hospital can admit patients from outside Ahmedabad, but will have to inform the AMC about such patients. Officials said that the decision came after the AMC realized that the number of patients admitted to the 50% private quotas at the 59 designated Covid hospitals was increasing. An officer said permitting these hospitals to admit patients privately on 100% of beds will also save the AMC charges for empty beds and advance grants. The officials said a clause has been included stipulating that if the AMC needs to admit patients from the city, such referred patients will be treated at rates decided by the corporation. These 15 new hospital can admit patients from corporation limits if they choose to be admitted as private patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/15-new-private-hospitals-roped-in-for-covid/articleshow/77270570.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Goa||‘In pandemic times, resident clientele keep sex trade going’||Panaji: Raids conducted by Goa police to rescue victims of commercial sexual exploitation (CSE) during the Covid-19 lockdowns may suggest that demand from local clients is keeping it going, an expert has said. “There is a perception that commercial sex workers are in demand in Goa due to domestic tourists, but raids during the pandemic have revealed that Goa residents, perhaps industrial estate workers or businessmen, too comprise sex workers’ clients,” said Arun Pandey of Arz, Goa police’s nodal NGO for its anti-trafficking unit. Goa has witnessed four rescues in the past week. Three women were rescued by the crime branch, and one by Verna police. “The pandemic has never been a deterrent to those involved in the flesh trade,” Pandey said. “Neither have TB nor HIV deterred clients from visiting commercial sex workers, and the same applies to Covid-19.” “Clients are least bothered about coronavirus, and are risking their own and the victims’ lives, as well as those of the general public,” Pandey said. “Police are doing a commendable job, fighting Covid on one hand and rescuing women on the other.” He said that trafficking is likely to continue till action is taken against those creating the demand—clients. As Goa is a major tourist destination for both national and international tourists, CSE trafficking in the state is both trans-border and internal. Women and girls are trafficked to Goa from within India as well as Nepal, Bangladesh, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, Thailand, Russia, Ukraine, and Turkmenistan. However, Goa is not only a destination state, Pandey said. “Women and girls from Goa have also been victims of commercial sexual exploitation.” He also said that recently there’s been an increase in the use of online platforms by traffickers. “Various forms of CSE exist, these include exploitation in massage parlours, hotels, lodges, flats, clubs, pubs, etc.” Pandey said that areas still exist which require government intervention, mainly coordination between Goa and national and other state agencies. Other reforms yet to be undertaken include the setting up of a special court under the Immoral Traffic Prevention Act, 1956, for speedy trial, and amendment in legislation to address gaps in handling web-based cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-pandemic-times-resident-clientele-keep-sex-trade-going/articleshow/77272030.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Goa||RBI breather for Madgaum co-op bank||Panaji: In a brief reprieve for Madgaum Urban Co-operative Bank, Reserve Bank of India has given it time till December 2 to finalise the ongoing merger talks with Thane Janta Sahakari Bank. RBI has extended the financial sanctions imposed on April 2019 for another four months, but shareholders and depositors’ concerns remain over the safety of their deposits. The Margao-based cooperative bank came under the RBI’s lens after it failed to adhere to Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) norms and struggled with non-performing assets. On April 26, 2019, RBI announced sanctions on the bank for a period of six months beginning May 2. The validity of the financial sanctions shall continue till December 2, as per the directive, said RBI chief general manager Yogesh Dayal. Madgaum Urban’s discussions with the Thane Janata Sahakari Bank are yet to reach a conclusive end. While the bank’s officials seem confident about the merger, government officials and depositors are worried that the bank will follow Mapusa Urban Co-operative Bank and end up in liquidation. Madgaum Urban has has initiated recovery proceedings against defaulters..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rbi-breather-for-madgaum-co-op-bank/articleshow/77272000.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Lucknow||Increase availability of beds in L1, L2 Covid hospitals: UP CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: In light of Lucknow and Kanpur recording among the highest cases of Covid-19 on a daily basis since the past 10 days, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday directed officials to increase the availability of beds in the L-2 and L-3 hospitals here, and similar urban areas. These are the hospitals where facility for oxygen and ventilators is available. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi, said that only those patients who are confirmed to have Covid should be admitted to such hospitals to ensure that beds were available for those in genuine need. “The CM has also said that there should be at least one L-2 level hospital in each district and a nodal officer should be appointed to ensure that the work takes place immediately,” he said. Yogi also met the director of SGPGI on Thursday and asked him to send a team of specialist doctors to medical colleges in Kanpur, Varanasi, Prayagraj, Bareilly, Jhansi and Gorakhpur. During their visit, the team would hold meetings with DMs, CMOs, principal of the medical college, senior faculty, deputy CMO and ventilator operator. A coordination team would be set up in Lucknow to monitor this activity. The teams would review the arrangements and facilities in the hospitals. Last week, during his visit to the Jhansi hospital, chief secretary RK Tiwari had identified several shortcomings, including shortage of technicians and lack of cleanliness. Simultaneously, director general, health, has been asked to maintain contact with directors of all Covid hospitals and CMOs while the director general, health education, should be in constant touch with principals of all medical colleges. Yogi has said that 50% of the ambulances under the 108 services should be reserved for Covid patients and these ambulances should only be used for Covid work from then on. Officials should ensure that ambulance drivers are paid regularly, get masks, gloves. He has also said that some private rooms should be arranged for Covid patients admitted in SGPGI, KGMU and RML hospital in Lucknow. Patients in these hospitals who require dialysis should be provided with the facility. He has also directed officials to ensure that the paediatric centre in Gorakhpur’s BRD medical college is ready by August 15. A day after announcing that a three-member committee in each district, comprising the DM, CMO and CDO were being empowered to take certain decisions of their areas, like hiring ambulances or lab technicians, the government said that for districts with a population of less than 25 lakh, the team will get Rs 3 crore as discretionary funds while districts with a population of more than 25 lakh will get Rs 5 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/increase-availability-of-beds-in-l1-l2-covid-hospitals-cm/articleshow/77272611.cms||Neha Lalchandani
July 31, 2020||Pune||Pune: MLAs condemn inflated bills, shortages in meeting with CM||PUNE: Members of the legislative assembly, who were part of the chief minister’s review meeting on Thursday, came down hard on patient management in the region. Across party lines, representatives from Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and Pune rural, said high treatment bills and shortages of ICU beds had severely impacted the response to Covid-19. They demanded more ventilators, beds and stricter audits of bills being handed out to patients by hospitals in the region. Sunil Tingre, MLA of the Wadgaonsheri constituency said, “Representatives raised concerns over non-availability of beds during the meeting with the chief minister. Overcharging by some private hospitals is a problem that has been brought up before. It wasn’t just MLAs from city areas. Those from rural parts of the state also complained of inadequate healthcare facilities. They alleged administrative mismanagement during the fight against this outbreak.” Tingre said shortage of ventilator units was a key point on the agenda for Thursday’s meeting. At least six patients have died in Pune after being forced to wait for emergency care. Their families said they were unable to find ICU beds on time. Information on these deaths was also shared with the chief minister during the meeting — his first in-person interaction in Pune with elected members since the pandemic broke out. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol also shared details about the financial condition of the Pune Municipal Corporation. “The civic body's funds and resources are getting exhausted. It has already spent around Rs 250 crore to contain the virus. The state government should extend financial support to Pune,” he said. According to the elected members, the chief minister said Pune will get more hospital beds to soon ensure patient requirements are met. Thackeray said his office will need regular updates on the construction of the three makeshift hospitals that are set to come up soon in Pune. Shivajinagar MLA Siddharth Shirole said, “We urged the chief minister to come out with a strong policy to speed up testing and improve patient care. A very low number of people are coming forward to test for Covid-19. We also raised concerns over the slow progress of these makeshift hospitals that are coming up in Pune. The central committee had recommended large treatment facilities a month ago. But no steps have been taken in that direction so far in Pune. The delays are causing chaos,” he said. Shirole insisted the state government should make dispatch more funds for Covid-mitigation works. Shirur MP Amol Kolhe demanded hospital infrastructure be improved in rural areas to reduce the load on urban centres. “All available ventilators should be put to use with a proper plan. There should be clear guidelines on the availability of Remdesivir and other drugs so that patients can get them at prescribed prices,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mlas-condemn-inflated-bills-shortages-in-meeting-with-cm/articleshow/77272032.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Case doubling rate rises to 34 days from 30||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Thursday again recorded the new highest daily tally of 1,159 cases, taking the state past 60,000 cumulative cases mark at 60,285. Gujarat is the ninth state in India to cross the figure. It was the state’s third consecutive day of 1,100-plus daily cases and 10th day of 1,000-plus daily cases. In the past 10 days, the state has recorded six daily highest tallies. Analysis of the cases reveals that it took Gujarat 69 days to reach 15,000 cases. It got doubled in 30 days at 30,000 whereas the next 34 days saw the cases reach 60,000. Death rate at 15K cases was 6.2% which got reduced to 5.9% at 30K cases and 4% at 60K cases. The state’s death toll reached 2,418 with 22 deaths in 24 hours. The figure included 10 deaths from Surat, five from Ahmedabad, two each from Patan, Vadodara and Gandhinagar and one from Kutch. With the update, Surat district recorded 400 cumulative deaths of Covid-19 patients so far. The cases include 271 from Surat, 157 from Ahmedabad, 96 from Vadodara and 86 from Rajkot. The state also recorded discharge of 879 patients in 24 hours, taking the total to 44,074.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/case-doubling-rate-rises-to-34-days-from-30/articleshow/77270567.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Pune||Man ends life in Pune's Bhosari||PUNE: A 27-year-old man was found hanging from the hook of a ceiling fan in a room of his house in Bhosari on Wednesday night. “We found a suicide note in the room stating that no one was responsible for his death and appealing to kin to take care of his sister. The man was under stress as he was jobless and was not getting marriage proposals,” an officer from the Bhosari police said. The police have registered a case of accidental death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-ends-life-in-bhosari/articleshow/77272048.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Lucknow||Covid-19: 22% active cases in UP under home quarantine||LUCKNOW: Within 10 days of the state government allowing home isolation for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients, over 7,000 positive cases have availed the facility in Uttar Pradesh. “The state has 32,649 active infections currently. Of these, 7,198 (22%) have availed the facility of home isolation, while 172 (0.5%) have opted for paid isolation at identified level-1 plus facilities,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad. He added that the break-up was being shared to encourage people for getting them tested even at the slightest doubt. “Over 80% of the patients are asymptomatic. If detected early, anyone can recover in 10-12 days. But there is a risk of complications and even death if people ignore the early signs,” he said. Prasad said the government had made arrangements for free of cost testing and no one should hesitate in coming forward for coronavirus testing. “There is no vaccine or sure shot medicine to cure Covid-19. Testing is our only safe bet and therefore, one must not hesitate from getting screened,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/22-active-cases-in-up-under-home-quarantine/articleshow/77272640.cms||Shailvee Sharda
July 31, 2020||Goa||Horti corp buys 541 tonnes of local veggies in 3 mnths||Panaji: While the Goa state horticulture corporation limited (GSHCL) is known to procure vegetables from neighbouring states, this time their shelves are also selling locally produced greens. For the period May to July, 541 tonne of vegetables have been procured from local farmers. “These vegetables, procured in this financial year, so far, are worth Rs 2.5 crore,” said managing director of GSHCL, Sandeep Faldesai. The lockdown left people with ample time to spend in their fields growing vegetables, he said, while attributing it as the reason for the increase in local produce, this year. Agriculture officials, however, said the increased interest among farmers was owing to the subsidised seeds. Deputy director of agriculture Chintamani Perni said that a total of 1,100kg of vegetable seeds were distributed during the lockdown among farmers. “People have enthusiastically grown these vegetables and they’ve already yielded results. There in fact have been more vegetables produced compared to last year since we only distributed 300kg of seeds last financial year. As a result there is an increase in local vegetable produce this year,” Perni said. The vegetables are currently under cultivation owing to which the GSHCL is able to locally procure anywhere between four to five tonne of produce every day. “There could, however, be more vegetables since many farmers sell the vegetables directly and not through the horticulture outlets,” Faldesai said. Cluster beans, okra, cucumbers, and ridge gourd, among others the most procured vegetables. The vegetables bought from local farmers in May-June-July are tabulated up to July 29, department officials said, adding that the number is likely to increase with the addition of procurement figures of July 30-31. In addition, the GSHCL has procured 50 tonne of fruits worth Rs 75 lakh and 1.5 lakh coconuts worth Rs 18 lakh, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/horti-corp-buys-541-tonnes-of-local-veggies-in-3-mnths/articleshow/77272050.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Lucknow||UP adds record 3,765 Covid-19 cases, 57 deaths in 24 hours||LUCKNOW: While a record 3,765 new cases and 57 deaths were reported in the state, an assessment of Covid data revealed that the number of active coronavirus cases in Uttar Pradesh registered a 386% rise since June 30. The new cases took the state tally to 81,099, while the total number of deaths reached 1,587. Active cases refer to the total number of positive cases. Derived by adjusting the number of patients discharged and fresh cases, it is seen as a measure of the current extent of the pandemic. According to the data, the number of active cases on June 30 was 6,711 which increased to 32,649. The clear addition of 25,938 cases translated into an increase of 386%. In fact, in comparison to the last week, active cases this week have doubled. While between July 19 and July 25 there were 5,188 active cases, the figure reached 10,197 on Thursday. The cases have increased rapidly since the first week of July. There were 942 active infections in the first week of July, while the number rose to 3,863 in the second week. It went up to 5,774 in the third week and declined marginally in the fourth week to rest at 5,188. Health officials attributed the increase to the state's aggressive testing policy. "Over 16 lakh tests have been conducted in the state between June 24 and July 30 which is over 70% of the total 22 lakh tests conducted so far," said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad urging people not to get worried about the numbers. "There is no need to worry. If detected on time, any one can defeat the virus in a matter of 10-12 days. But it is important to get one self tested," he added. Meanwhile, of the new cases, Lucknow topped with 485 cases followed by Kanpur Nagar where 208 cases were reported. Varanasi followed with 153 cases. Cities which saw 75 plus cases included: Prayagraj (133), Moradabad (125), Gautam Budh Nagar (110), Ballia (100), Bareilly (99), Kannauj (91),Ghaziabad (85), Gorakhpur (83), Rampur (81) and Saharanpur (77). In terms of deaths, Varanasi topped the chart with seven casualties, while Kanpur and Gorakhpur followed with six and five deaths respectively. Bareillyand Rae Bareli reported four deaths each, while Mirzapur saw three deaths. Lucknow, Meerut, Saharanpur, Shahjahanpur, Bahraich, Kaushambhi and Hathras saw two deaths each. In Ambedkarnagar, Banda, Pratapgarh, Amroha,Bhadoi, Pilibhit, Sultanpur, Mainpuri, Barabanki, Bulandshahr, Moradabad, Agra, Prayagraj and Gautam Budh Nagar one death each was recorded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-adds-record-3765-cases-57-deaths-in-24-hrs/articleshow/77272643.cms||Shailvee Sharda
July 31, 2020||Goa||Goa: Three held in bike theft case at Mapusa||PANAJI: Mapusa police arrested two youth and one minor in a theft case involving a two-wheeler. The minor has been sent to Apna Ghar. A complaint was registered with the police on Wednesday stating that the two accused and one minor had stolen a two-wheeler. The complainant said that the vehicle belonged to a person known to them and was in the possession of her husband. She also said that the accused damaged the motorcycle causing loss to her husband. North Goa superintendent of police (SP) Utkrisht Prasoon said during the course of investigation, the accused were apprehended at Camarkhajan, Mapusa, and brought at the police station and arrested. “After developing information through sources, the associate of the accused, who is a minor, was taken into custody,” he said. The stolen motorcycle has been recovered. Last week, Pernem police busted a gang involved in two-wheeler thefts. Arresting three persons in the case, police had recovered 15 motorcycles worth Rs 25 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/3-held-in-bike-theft-case-at-mapusa/articleshow/77272033.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Bareilly||Police book driver of Bareilly-based businessman who fled with cash, docus in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: The Pilibhit police booked the driver of a Bareilly-based businessman on Thursday afternoon who had fled from Pilibhit in his car taking some cash and important documents with him from near a petrol pump situated on Pilibhit-Basti national highway 730 in proximity of Assam road crossing around 10 pm on July 28. Businessman Rohit Gupta, had sent his accountant Saurabh Saxena, with his driver Sandeep Yadav on July 26 to collect payment of steel sold by his firm to some buyers in Bahraich and other neighbouring areas. The complainant, Rohit Gupta of Janakpuri locality under Premnagar police station in Bareilly, stated in his written complaint filed to Sungarhi police station that he had his steel firm in the name of SP Enterprises in district Muzaffarnagar. During the return journey from Bahraich, the car driver stopped the car near Nirmal Petrol Pump in Pilibhit and came out of the car under the pretext of a puncher in the tyre. According to Gupta, the moment his accountant also came out of the car to take the stock of the situation, the driver promptly got into the car and fled the spot along with some cash and important documents. Station house officer (SHO) Atar Singh said that Yadav was booked under sections 407 (criminal breach of trust by a person entrusted with property as a carrier) and 381 (theft in respect of any property by a person being a clerk or servant) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/police-book-driver-of-bareilly-based-businessman-who-fled-with-cash-docus-in-pilibhit/articleshow/77267883.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Delhi||Out to arrest criminals, cops attacked by mob||New Delhi: A team of Delhi Police was attacked and locked up by a mob while trying to arrest a criminal from a village near Mewat. The man had allegedly duped several people in Lutyens’ Delhi. Police said that the man had put up an advertisement online to sell a scooter while posing as a cop using a forged identity card. He took money to sell the vehicle and then disappeared. An FIR was lodged at Chanakyapuri police station on the complaint of a man who was cheated of Rs 17,000. The man told police that he had found a scooter for sale on an e-commerce website. The owner of the vehicle introduced himself as policeman Sanjay Kumar, who was posted at the airport, and agreed to sell the scooter for Rs 2,020. Kumar told the man that the scooter would be delivered to his address for a security deposit of Rs 15,000. After the money was transferred, the accused disappeared. When cops tracked down the IP address of the online advertisement for the scooter, uploaded it was found to be from a village in Rajasthan. Kumar was found to be one Sarbal Khan who had created a fake profile and was duping people on e-commerce websites along with two associates, Irfan and Arif. However, when the police team tried to arrest Khan, a mob gathered in the area, blocked the road and attacked the cops. The team managed to contact local police, who rescued them from the mob. Khan managed to escape in the melee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/out-to-arrest-criminals-cops-attacked-by-mob/articleshow/77293379.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Pune||Pune: Elderly man loses Rs 1 lakh to ‘noble’ cause ploy||PUNE: The Alankar police registered another case of cheating and impersonation against a man, who demanded and accepted Rs 1 lakh from a 90-year old businessman from Kothrud after pretending to be Kothrud MLA Chandrakant Patil on July 17. According to the complaint filed on Wednesday, the elderly man received a call from a person claiming to be MLA Patil. The caller told him how he was working relentlessly in the time of coronavirus. The caller then asked the elderly man to help him financially and sought up to Rs 3 lakh from him, the FIR states. Senior inspector of Alankar police station Kalpana Jadhav said, “Reluctantly, the complainant promised to give Rs1 lakh for the noble cause. Following, this a man visited the businessman’s residence to collect cash worth Rs 1 lakh.” Later, the victim read news reports about people being cheated by a person posing as the BJP politician and realized he had been duped. Similar cases have been registered with the Pimpri Chinchwad and Kothrud police stations as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/elderly-man-loses-rs-1-lakh-to-noble-cause-ploy/articleshow/77272069.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Pune||CP suspends inspector on bribery charge in Pune||PUNE: The city police commissioner, K Venkatesham, on Wednesday suspended an inspector posted with the Bibvewadi police for allegedly demanding Rs 50,000 through a middleman for releasing a bus impounded on July 14 for violating the lockdown norms. Deputy commissioner of police (Zone V) Suhas Bawche said, “An offence of demand has been established from the statement of the arrested middleman, Sukhdev Charan. Hence, we have involved the PC Act provisions and gave the case to the ACB.” During interrogation, Charan told the police that he took the money at the behest of the inspector and handed it over the to the former.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cp-suspends-inspector-on-bribery-charge/articleshow/77272059.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Goa||Sewage enters Taleigao fields, farming takes a hit||Panaji: During a recent inspection of sewage water entering agricultural fields in Taleigao, the sarpanch stated that he has asked housing societies to stop releasing the effluent in the farm lands. Agriculture department officials had found ‘thick black sludge’ emitting ‘unbearable stench’ in several fields in Caranzalem, restricting farmers to take any crop. The inspection was carried out in Taleigao and adjacent areas with the help of Xavier Almeida, president of progressive farmers club, Taleigao besides other residents. The officials also found sludge flowing into the paddy opposite Sao Miguel school. On inspecting the base of Nagali Hills in Nagali ward “it was noticed that the fields were submerged with a lot of greyish black water and looked like a swamp. There was no cultivation in the fields, though earlier, paddy was cultivated in the kharif season followed by vegetables in the rabi season,” the inspection report stated. The water passed under the road through a dam and trickled across to the fields on the other side of the road near Fern’s Residency. The farmers and residents indicated that the thick black liquid was due to discharge of septic waste into the fields by the Housing Complexes situated on the slopes of Nagalli hills and areas areas. The channel which moves through Tonca and enters the St Inez Creek at Camrabhat was also found to be contaminated. The inspection was carried out by assistant director of agriculture (crops), assistant engineer SCD and zonal agricultural officer, Tiswadi. The Goa human rights commission last month called for reports from the directorate of agriculture and the corporation of the city of Panaji over choking of St Inez creek and sewage from new building projects and hardship caused to Taleigao farmers as a result. The commission took suo motu cognizance of reports of Taleigao farmers complaining of submerging of their fields due to silting of the creek.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sewage-enters-taleigao-fields-farming-takes-a-hit/articleshow/77272060.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Varanasi||Man held from Chhattisgarh for extortion call of Rs 1crore||Gorakhpur: A man was arrested from Chhattisgarh’s Bilaspur aea for extortion call to a farmer of Sikriganj area in Gorakhpur demanding Rs 1 crore on Wednesday, said CO Yadvendra Krishna Narayan Khajni. According to reports, one Santosh Mani Ojha, who after doing some jobs in Indore and then Mauritius had returned to his home in Gorakhpur in 2018, is doing a small business and farming in Sikriganj. On Tuesday evening he received an extortion call for Rs 1 crore, said the police. He was also threatened to not inform the police, Ojha informed the police after which the police traced the number through surveillance and within 16 hours arrested one Bajrangi Jagir from Bilaspur in Chattisgarh. The accused is a native of Rajasthan, said CO Khajni in Gorakhpur, Yadvendra Krishna Narayan. “Bajrangi Jagir works as a contractor of welding work. The accused will be brought to Gorakhpur on transit remand,” police said. Earlier on Sunday, a 14-year-old boy of Gorakhpur was kidnapped for a ransom of Rs 1 crore and was later killed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/man-held-from-chhattisgarh-for-extortion-call-of-rs-1crore/articleshow/77272124.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Goa||Signature campaign to save Mollem national park||Panaji: A citizens’ signature campaign, ‘Save Mollem national park, Goa’ has received 6,000 signatures so far. The online campaign was started in a bid to demand cancellation of the proposed widening of the existing national highway 4A, double-tracking of the railway line and construction of new power transmission lines running through the Bhagwan Mahavir wildlife sanctuary and the Mollem national park. The campaign which is coordinated by Jhatkaa.org, in partnership with ‘Concerned citizens of Goa’ - a collective of many Goan NGOs - has also started a campaign asking the member secretary of the Supreme Court constituted, central empowered committee (CEC) to get the Goa government and the national and state wildlife board to cancel the clearances allotted to these projects and respond with a detailed report by August 2. Citizens can sign the appeal at https://bit.ly/2CJj9ni. The Bhagwan Mahavir wildlife sanctuary and Mollem national park in Goa are spread across 240sqkm of protected area in the western ghats. But with the ministry for environments and forests (MoEF) approving the widening of the existing national highway 4A, double-tracking of the railway line, and construction of a new power line, Goa will lose 185 hectares of forest cover or roughly 55,000 trees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/signature-campaign-to-save-mollem-national-park/articleshow/77272063.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Varanasi||Two prisoners flee from temporary jail in Mirzapur, one held||Varanasi: Two accused of motorcycle theft escaped from a temporary jail after breaking its window in Chunar area of Mirzapur district on Wednesday late night. A similar incident had taken place in Sonbhadra on July 15. One of them was later caught by the police. SP Mirzapur Dharmvir Singh said an FIR has been lodged and several teams have been engaged to nab them. District borders have been sealed and police of adjoining districts have been alerted. A cash reward of Rs 25,000 has been announced on each of the two absconders. During a checking drive, one of the escapees, Ashish Bind, was intercepted near Barbata hills under the limits of Jigna police station when he was trying to escape after stealing a motorcycle. The SP said, “When the police tried to stop him, Bind opened fire on SO Jigna. The cops returned the fire and he suffered a bullet injury on his leg and fell on the road. The police rushed him to the district hospital. We are finding out from here he got the country-made revolver.” According to police, Satish Kumar Shukla (26) of Riva in Madhya Pradesh and Ashish Bind (26) of Manda in Prayagraj had been arrested on July 17 in a case of motorcycle lifting and many stolen motorcycles were recovered from them. They were produced before a court and lodged in a temporary jail created at Government Polytechnic College in Chunar area in view of the Covid-19 protocol. Mirzapur district jail superintendent Anil Kumar Rai, said that around 2.30 am on intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, the prison guards found the window of a room broken and alerted the senior officials. After it all the prisoners were counted and Shukla and Bind were found missing. Rai along with SDM Chunar and additional SP (Naxal) inspected the temporary jail. The cops immediately sealed the district borders and carried out a massive checking drive. Police said that Shukla has tattoos on many parts of the body including depiction of ‘Mard’ on his chest while Bind has cut mark on his ear. SP Mirzapur said that teams of police were conducting raids at all possible hideouts of the absconders. On July 15 an accused in a case of Pocso Act, Shivnath Yadav (28), who was arrested on July 9, Sazid Ali alias Teni and Sandeep Sharma, who were arrested on July 12 in a case lodged under sections of Arms Act, had fled from a room of temporary jail of Robertsganj area in Sonbhadra district, although the cops had arrested them again on the same day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/two-prisoners-flee-from-temporary-jail-in-mirzapur-one-held/articleshow/77271582.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Kanpur||Gangster Vikas Dubey’s ‘bomb-maker’ surrenders||KANPUR: Slain gangster Vikas Dubey’s close aide Gopal Saini, who was carrying a reward of Rs 1 lakh on his head, surrendered before a special court at Maati in Kanpur Dehat district on Wednesday evening. Saini, who reportedly made bombs for Dubey, was among the 14 absconding accused in the Bikru ambush case. Special Task Force (STF) and district police were looking for Saini as probe revealed that he threw bombs at the police party on July 3 when eight policemen, including deputy superintendent of police Devendra Kumar Mishra, were killed when they went to arrest Dubey in an attempt to murder case lodged at Chaubeypur police station by one Rahul Tiwari. District government counsel (criminal) Raju Porwal told reporters that accused Gopal Saini surrendered before the special court (UP dacoity-affected area) at Maati in Kanpur Dehat on Wednesday evening. Saini’s advocate moved an application for his surrender before the special court, Porwal said. SP (rural) Brijesh Kumar Srivastava said, “Gopal Saini, an aide of gangster Vikas Dubey, surrendered before court in Kanpur Dehat today.” A police official said Gopal was a neighbour of Dubey and used to make bombs for him. Material used in bomb manufacturing was recovered from his house during the raid after the ambush.“He had hurled several bombs at police party on July 3. Besides, Dubey’s aides had used his roof-top for firing at the police team,” the officer added. “Saini used to run the ration shop that Dubey had allotted in the name of his servant Daya Shankar Agnihotri. Three bombs were recovered from the ration shop during search,” he added. “We will move an application before the court requesting for his remand so that he can be interrogated with regard to the Bikru ambush, besides collecting inputs about Dubey’s absconding 13 aides,” the officer said. Police had declared a cash reward of Rs 50,000 on Saini, but it was later raised to Rs 1 lakh. Police are looking for 13 accused, including Dubey’s brother Deep Prakash, Raja Ram, Shiv Tiwari, Vishnu Pal Yadav alias Ziledar, Ram Singh, Ramu Bajpai, Heeru Dubey, Bauwan Shukla, Shivam Dubey and Bal Govind Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/dubeys-bomb-maker-surrenders/articleshow/77272644.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 31, 2020||Pune||Pune’s single-day Covid count hits a high of 3,658||PUNE: The Covid-19 case count in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) reached 81,671 on Thursday, with the addition of 3,658 new cases, single-day highest for it so far. Besides, 64 patients succumbed in the region in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 1,922. Of the fresh cases, 2,402 were recorded in the Pune municipal limits, 893 in the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits and 363 in the rural as well as Cantonment areas. With this, the total caseload in the PMC areas has climbed to 51,629, while the tally in the PCMC limits has reached 20,686. As many as 1,315 patients were discharged in the PMC limits on Thursday. “As many as 927 patients were in critical stage in the PMC limits on Thursday, of whom 471 were on ventilator support. The active cases in PMC reached 18,215. The PMC conducted 6,241 tests in the last 24 hours, including rapid antigen tests,” a civic health official said. There were 7,494 active patients and 12,444 recoveries in PCMC limits till Thursday evening. The deceased included a senior PMC official, who suffered from co-morbidity conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citys-single-day-infection-count-hits-a-high-of-3658/articleshow/77272077.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 31, 2020||Vadodara||Palanpur youth’s film showcased at film fest in NY||Vadodara: From Palanpur, Mahat Jalan shot to the limelights of the global stage after a short film he acted in, was featured in the New York Lift-Off Film Festival 2020 recently. Jalan went to pursue modelling course in New York in January immediately took up the lead role in the film ‘Tehravin’. Written and directed by another Indian, Kartik Venkatraman, the film is based on the 12 days of ritualistic mourning. Jalan’s character that has seeped into depression as his wife divorces him for her boyfriend, comes out of it on the 13th day and looks at a brighter future. “I was excited about the project, but it was difficult when it came to prepare for the role. I had a muscular body, but I was asked to put on weight, so I gorged on everything for 20 days to increase my weight,” said Jalan. “I did not tell anyone about the film project, not even my parents. I told them only after the film got selected for the film festival,” he said. “I am a jovial person. So, when I played a character that was serious in nature, nobody could believe that it was me,” said the actor, who also worked in theatres while back in Ahmedabad. Jalan is now back with his modelling and also in talks with an Australian producer for a role in another short film.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/palanpur-youths-film-showcased-at-film-fest-in-ny/articleshow/77267856.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Goa||Over 5,000 tribal ryots from South benefit from schemes||Margao: Over 5,000 farmers from South Goa belonging to the ST community benefited from various schemes of the agriculture department under the Tribal Sub-Plan (TSP) in the year 2019-20. With an amount of nearly Rs 4.5 crore disbursed through the tribal sub-plan schemes during the fiscal year, sources said that the amount has surpassed the fund disbursal figures of the South Goa district agriculture office for the last financial year. The main objective of implementing schemes under the Tribal Sub-Plan is to bridge the gap between Scheduled Tribe (ST) population and others by accelerating the development of STs by increasing agricultural production by ultimately increasing their income. Official records reveal that the highest amount of funds were disbursed towards the scheme for assured support price for paddy, coconut, palm oil, sugarcane, among others. In the year 2019 -20, nearly 2,000 farmers availed subsidy of about Rs 1.8 crore. Over 2,200 farmers benefited from the scheme for assistance on purchase of agricultural inputs, with the agriculture department disbursing funds amounting to nearly Rs 1.4 crore. Under this scheme, financial assistance to the extent of 75% of the cost on inputs such as seeds, planting materials, pesticides, soil conditioners, biofertilisers, with a maximum subsidy limit of Rs 12,000 per hectare is offered. This scheme is in operation in Goa since 2007-08. Around 760 farmers availed of the scheme for assistance for purchase of agriculture machinery with funds totaling nearly Rs 1 crore disbursed under the Tribal Sub-Plan. “Under this scheme, many scheduled tribes farmers were assisted with central government funds for purchase of agricultural machinery like power tillers, mini power tillers, weed cutters sprayers, aluminum ladders, power sprayers and implements. Assistance to tune of 75% to 90 % is provided under this component depending on type of equipment purchased,” agriculture officer Shariff Furtado told TOI. Significant number of ST farmers from South Goa also availed of schemes for creation of irrigation infrastructure that provides financial assistance for purchasing and installing drip sprinklers, electrical and diesel pump sets, digging wells, etc; development of horticulture, development of manures and fertilisers, etc. South Goa district agriculture officer Sanjeev Mayekar said that efforts are underway to encourage more ST farmers to avail of the schemes with the larger objective of bringing more agricultural area under cultivation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/over-5000-tribal-ryots-from-south-benefit-from-schemes/articleshow/77272068.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
July 31, 2020||Goa||Dept of women and child launches 7 services online||Panaji: The department of women and child development on Thursday took seven services under five scheme online, including registration of child care institutions. Applications for the Mamta scheme for mothers who deliver a girl, grant-in-aid under the Swawlambhan scheme, registration of master trainers under the same scheme, internship scheme for students of counselling, psychology, social work, home science, grant application for shelter homes for women, registration of child care institutions and the scheme for welfare of children in need of care and protection have all been moved online to benefit people. Minister for women and child development Vishwajit Rane said that those applying for the schemes will receive messages at every stage. “People will receive continuous SMS updates through GEL when they apply, when the process has been completed and when the scheme has been sanctioned. They will also be asked to submit any incomplete documentation and will not be able to proceed further to the next stage if they don’t submit this. There is no need for anyone to visit the department for these services,” Rane said at the launch. When asked about the department’s bigger schemes Griha Adhaar and Laadli Laxmi, Rane said they will also be taken online soon. “We will streamline these schemes online first. There is a lot of documentation required for Griha Adhaar and Laadli Laxmi schemes so these will be moved online in the second stage,” he said. Director of women and child development Deepali Naik said it is the need of the hour to move processes online. “Lifestyle has changed. We are digitising schemes for the public so that the don’t face the hassle of travelling all the way to offices, standing in queues and filling forms. During a pandemic it is wise to have such schemes online,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dept-of-women-and-child-launches-7-services-online/articleshow/77272072.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Kanpur||Don Dubey’s bomb-maker gives police a slip, surrenders in court||Kanpur: Slain gangster Vikas Dubey’s close aide Gopal Saini, who was carrying a reward of Rs 1 lakh, surrendered in a special court at Maati in Kanpur Dehat district on Wednesday evening. Saini, who made bombs for Dubey, was among the 14 absconding accused in the Bikru ambush case.Special Task Force (STF) and district police were looking for Saini as probe revealed that he threw bombs at the police party on July 3 when eight policemen, including deputy superintendent of police Devendra Kumar Mishra, were killed when it went to arrest Dubey in an attempt to murder case lodged at Chaubeypur police station by one Rahul Tiwari. District government counsel (criminal) Raju Porwal told reporters accused Gopal Saini surrendered before the special court (UP dacoity-affected area) at Maati in Kanpur Dehat on Wednesday evening. Saini’s advocate moved an application for his surrender before the special court, Porwal said. SP (rural) Brijesh Kumar Srivastava said, “Gopal Saini, an aide of gangster Vikas Dubey, surrendered before court in Kanpur Dehat today.” A police official said Gopal was a neighbour of Dubey and used to make bombs for him. Material used in bomb manufacturing was recovered from his house during raid after the ambush. “He had hurled several bombs at police party on July 3. Besides, Dubey’s aides had used his roof-top for firing at police team,” the officer added. “Saini used to run the ration shop that Dubey had got allotted in the name of his servant Daya Shankar Agnihotri. Three bombs were recovered from the ration shop during search,” he added. “We will move an application before the court requesting for his remand so that he can be interrogated with regard to Bikru ambush, besides collecting inputs about Dubey’s absconding 13 aides,” the officer said. Police had declared a cash reward of Rs 50,000 on Saini, but it was later raised to Rs 1 lakh. Police are looking for 13 accused, including Dubey’s brother Deep Prakash, Raja Ram, Shiv Tiwari, Vishnu Pal Yadav alias Ziledar, Ram Singh, Ramu Bajpai, Heeru Dubey, Bauwan Shukla, Shivam Dubey and Bal Govind Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/don-dubeys-bomb-maker-gives-police-a-slip-surrenders-in-court/articleshow/77272158.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 31, 2020||Kanpur||2 virtual courts to function from today||Kanpur: Two virtual courts will become operational in Kanpur Nagar district court from Friday to hear pending and fresh bail applications and anticipatory bail applications, release and remand applications, and urgent miscellaneous work. District judge Ashok Kumar Singh on Thursday finalized the list of judicial officials and the cause list of cases, which would be heard on Friday. Talking to TOI, the district judge said a three-member committee set up for the purpose had submitted in its report that two virtual courts could be made functional. Similarly, a four-member committee had observed that all preparation for the virtual court was as per guidelines issued by the Allahabad high court. He specifically made it clear that no fresh suit could be filed. Only urgent fresh matters and pending bail applications would be taken up for hearing. He further informed TOI that the Kanpur Municipal Corporation too had sanitized the Government Inter college Chunniganj premises where the virtual court will function. Therefore, virtual courts would become functional from July 31. As per schedule, judicial officials will sit at other ends from his residence and advocates would be connected to him via the internet . The district judge observed that when the judicial officer would be hearing during his allotted time slot, a third-class clerk of his court would be present there along with case-related files and papers. Apart from him, one other third-class clerk, with knowledge of computers, would also be present there so that hearing of matter could take place safely. Similarly, at Government Inter College Chunniganj, nodal officer computer or chairman computer or any other official who has sufficient knowledge of internet and computer would be available. Also, one court employee will be deputed at virtual court premises to receive urgent application physically and they would provide the applications to the computer section for further proceedings. At the computer section, one of the members of the compliance committee would mark their presence, download the applications sent by mail and convert them into hard copy and provide the concerned clerks for further proceedings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/2-virtual-courts-to-function-from-today/articleshow/77272179.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
July 31, 2020||Mumbai||Navy captain, 18 others named in Rs 7-crore fraud; CBI searches 26 homes||MUMBAI: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) recently registered a Rs 7-crore fraud case against 19 people including Western Naval Command personnel and private individuals, and searched 26 premises of the accused in Mumbai, Delhi, Gujarat and Karnataka on Thursday. Sources said CBI recovered Rs 10 lakh cash along with documents. The accused navy officials allegedly paid for IT hardware equipment purchases to four companies using forged bills though no material was supplied. The payment was allegedly made through seven fraudulentlygenerated bills from navy’s internal accounting system. The navy financial information system (FIS) generates store purchase bills with a unique number for each. This number has to be entered in the bill after which a physical copy of it along with receipt voucher is forwarded to the principal controller of defence accounts’ (PCDA) office for scrutiny and payment. CBI officials said that the documents related to fraudulent purchase bills and approval are missing from the navy’s records. CBI alleged that the fake unique number from FIS was generated for seven bills through login ID of commanders Mandar Godbole and R P Sharma. Captain Atul Kulkarni was supervising officer of the section when the fraudulent bills were generated. CBI alleged that Kulkarni participated in the fraud along with Petty officer Kuldeep Singh, PCDA officials S M Deshmane, A K Biswas, Indu Kumbhare, Anmol Kandayburu and Pradeep Chavan. CBI named the owners of the four companies that allegedly received the payments in 2016.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/navy-captain-18-others-named-in-rs-7-crore-fraud-cbi-searches-26-homes/articleshow/77271230.cms||Vijay V Singh
July 31, 2020||Surat||Seven arrested in chemical theft racket||SURAT: Acting on a tip-off, the CID (crime) unit of Surat busted a racket of pilfering chemicals from parked trucks and selling them illegally. Seven persons involved in the racket were arrested and cash and valuables worth Rs 29 lakh were recovered from them. The racket was busted in Ichhapore and police arrested seven persons identified as Gurbachhan Sindhu (30), Ashish Rajput (27), Jatin Maysuriya(28), Mangilal Mali (26), Kalusingh Rajput (34), Chandankumar Gupta (25) and Pannalal Salvi (37). One Munna Bharwad who used to arrange buyers for the stolen chemicals is yet to be arrested. Police raided a tin shed in Bhatpore Industrial Estate and recovered 58 barrels of stolen chemicals, Rs 69,440 cash and 10 mobile phones from the spot. “They used to develop contact with drivers of chemical tankers and involved them in the racket by paying them. They used to ask the driver to park the tanker at a specific location where the chemical was pilfered,” said a police officer. The chemicals were stolen from tankers going towards or from Hazira.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/seven-arrested-in-chemical-theft-racket/articleshow/77269057.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Teenager’s body found in Hyderabad's Bahadurpura, investigation on||HYDERABAD: The body of a teenager was found in Bahadurpura on Thursday night and police registered a suspcious death case. According to ACP SVN Shivaram Sharma, the body of an unknown teenager was found wrapped in a bedsheet in the bushes at Bahadurpura. “There were no external injuries. The identity of the deceased is yet to be established. We have shifted the body for post-mortem. If any internal injuries are found in the postmortem, the sections of the case will be altered accordingly,” the ACP said. “We have registered a suspicious death case under Section 174 of CrPC,” the ACP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/teenagers-body-found-in-bahadurpura-investigation-on/articleshow/77272076.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Varanasi||New power tariffs & pandemic leave powerloom machines in scrapyards||Varanasi: Electricity bill woes, which turned complex with complete closure of Banarasi sari and textile weaving industry with the beginning of Covid-19 menace in March, has started compelling many weavers to dispose their powerloom machines to scrap vendors against meagre return. Not only the Banarasi weaving industry, which is already worried over the new formula of revenue realisation adopted by the electricity department from January 1 in view of government order, but even power officials are considering that prevailing reasons may lead to closure of 25% powerloom units. In view of the worries of the weavers fraternity, the assistant director (handlooms) Nitesh Dhawan has also started communication with state government to think sympathetically on fresh crisis generated in this sector. The dismantled powerloom machines can be seen piling up the scrapyards of Chowkaghat, Jalalipura and Kajjakpura area. A scrap vendor of Jalalipura Jagdish Prasad Jaiswal revealed, “Till March one or two outdated or damaged powerloom machines were sold to us per month. But, in past three months the frequency of selling such machines has increased and on an average one machine is being sold from any weaver locality on alternate days.” TOI also took a stock of densely populated weavers localities including Jalalipura, Pathanitola and Hanuman Phatak, which lacked the noise of functional powerlooms. In the serpentine lanes of these weavers localities, tea and betel kiosks, general merchant and snacks shops have mushroomed with doors and windows of the house. Showing his empty hall after selling five powerloom machines in past one month Mohd Arif at Hanuman Phatak said, “We did not have any order after March 22 while our old dues were also not being cleared by Gaddidars and Girista (traders and middlemen). Power dues were also accumulating massively while feeding our families was proving to be difficult. Finally my family decided to sell machines. For two machines we got Rs 70,000 while three others were sold against Rs 30,000. With Rs one lakh collected by selling machines we have started a general merchant shop.” Sitting in front of switched-off machines Kamruddin could be seen selling snacks item while Noman Akhtar has not finalised trade to switch over after selling his one machine. At Pathanitola Ramjan Ali Ansari said, “Those weavers, who were ready to adopt other trade like selling tea, betel, grocery, running e-rickshaw and autos have already shifted. But many like me could not have succeeded in decision to switch. Power supply was also stopped at my house from Monday. When my son visited electricity department office at Kajjakpur he was asked to clear dues of Rs 24,000 to get the power supply restored. If these conditions continue, over 20% weavers will sell their machines and leave the profession of weaving.” The electricity departments superintending engineer of Varanasi circle-I Deepak Agrawal agreed with predictions of Ansari. Agrawal disclosed, “Weavers mainly of powerloom sector are not clearing their dues since the change in provision of paying fixed charge by a GO became effective from January 1 according to, which they have to pay for electricity at commercial rates after consuming the limit of subsidised units from 120 to 240. In over 19,000 connections to powerloom units the dues have gone above the mark of Rs 285 crores. We have not started disconnection drive against them as they are making efforts to convince government for providing a solution. Over 150 weavers have turned up so far with applications to disconnect their supplies by mentioning that they can’t survive with current tariff plan.” Explaining economics of powerloom weavers Noman Abdin Koyala Bazar, said, “If a weavers operates a machine with jacquard he earns around Rs 5000 and on non-jacquard machines the earning remains around Rs 35,000 in case of running them round the clock in a month. When power tariff was realised from them as fixed charges running machines was affordable for them. But, new formula of power tariff has brought even big weaving unit owners in serious trouble.” The top leader of weavers- Bavani-ke-Sardar- Haji Mukhtar Mahto said the issue of power tariff had already left weavers struggling but Covid-19 broke the backbone of industry as all earning has stopped completely. Capable persons, who extended help to needy during crisis situation, are now becoming helpless as their financial condition has also started deteriorating. Admitting that new power tariff plan has left the sector worried especially after the spread of Covid-19 menace Dhawan said, “On the basis of ground realities, problems explained by weavers and demands of leaders of their fraternity we have written a letter to the state government by mentioning all these facts, with a request to think sympathetically about them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/new-power-tariffs-pandemic-leave-powerloom-machines-in-scrapyards/articleshow/77272067.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
July 31, 2020||Pune||PMC to set up war rooms in each ward||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will set up war rooms in all the 15 wards to monitor Covid-19 mitigation work, including contact tracing, swab collection and management of care centres. The rapid increase in cases prompted the move. The civic authorities said the plan was in final stages and would be out in the next couple of days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-to-set-up-war-rooms-in-each-ward/articleshow/77272081.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Goa||Will write to Centre not to give nod for Kalasa-Bhandura project: Goa CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: In view of the Karnataka state cabinet’s decision to sanction Rs885.5 crore for the completion of the contentious Kalasa-Bhandura project over Mhadei river, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday said that he will write to Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat not to give any permissions to start the work. Sawant told TOI, “Even if Karnataka approve Rs885 crore for the completion of project, we will write to the minister for Jal Shakti to hear the Goa side first and not give any permission to Karnataka. I will write a letter on Friday.” He also said that Mhadei water disputes tribunal has adjourned the matter sine die and have asked the states to go to the apex court. “This decision is in the state’s favour,” he said. In February, the Jal Shakti ministry extended the term of the tribunal till August 19 to give its final award. The extension was given after the tribunal requested the Centre for more time to reply to clarifications sought by the riparian states—Goa, Karnataka and Maharashtra—to the August 14, 2018 order. Even as the Supreme Court is yet to hear special leave petitions filed by Goa, Karnataka and Maharashtra in the Mhadei water diversion case, the Karnataka state cabinet has sanctioned Rs885.5 crore for the completion of the contentious Kalasa-Bhandura project. Earlier this month, the apex court had also adjourned the case to August 24 to fix a fresh date of hearing. The three states, in their special leave petitions, have challenged the award given by Mhadei water disputes tribunal on August 14, 2018, regarding the allocation of water. The Union ministry of environment, climate and forest change (MoEFCC), meanwhile, has already asked the Karnataka government to submit a new proposal to obtain a forest clearance for the Kalasa-Bhandura project. In August 14, 2018 the three-decade old dispute between Goa and Karnataka over sharing of the Mhadei water ended by the tribunal rejecting Karnataka’s demand for 36.5tmc (thousand million cubic) feet of water and allotted only 13.4tmc, including 3.9tmc feet for drinking purposes through diversions against its demand for 7.5tmc feet. But the tribunal also made it clear that the diversion of water would be permitted only during the five months of monsoon—from June 1 to October 31. “Even if some inflows are observed into the reservoir(s) during the non-monsoon period, no diversion is permitted out of the inflow during the non-monsoon period starting from November 1 to May 31,” the tribunal headed by justice J M Panchal observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-write-to-centre-not-to-give-nod-for-kalasa-bhandura-project-cm/articleshow/77272079.cms||Murari Shetye
July 31, 2020||Pune||Equipment boost at 2 new health hubs||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The civic body will set up 450 beds with oxugen support and another 50 for ICUs in the newly created Balnagari and Autocluster facilities to increase the capacity to treat Covid-19 patients. Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar said the facilities would be ready to admit patients soon. “In the Balnagari facility, we shall be adding 450 beds. Of them, a total of 300 will have oxygen support. The Autocluster facility will get a total of 200 beds — 150 with oxygen support and 50 for ICUs,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/equipment-boost-at-2-new-health-hubs/articleshow/77272078.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Lucknow||Technical education in state is costliest in country: NSO report||Lucknow: Pursuing a technical/professional course in Uttar Pradesh is the costliest in the country. The average expenditure to pursue a technical or professional course in UP comes to Rs 72,959 per person followed only by Delhi where cost every year is Rs 71,867 per person. UP, in fact beats the all-India figure of Rs 50,307 spent on pursuing a technical or professional course, shows a recent survey by the National Statistical Office. The report on ‘Household Social Consumption on Education’ shows that in UP, 98% students attend general courses while only 2% prefer a technical or professional course. The divide between rural and urban is significant with 5% in urban areas opting for a technical course as against 1% in rural UP. As many as 98% rural students take up general courses as against 94% living in urban areas. The survey was carried out in 10,924 households, in 791 villages, and 579 blocks in urban UP from July 2017 to June 2018. There exists a significant gap in the average expenditure made by a student on a technical course between rural and urban places. A student enrolled in a technical or professional college in an urban area in UP spends 3.5 times more than his rural counterpart. So while those studying in rural areas spend Rs 31,592 per year, the amount spent in urban areas for pursuing a technical course is Rs 1,14,610—the highest among all states. Likewise, on a general course, an urban student spends Rs 13,380 (in a year) but his counterpart in rural area shells out Rs 4,546 on an average. According to Prof DS Yadav from APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University, students residing in remote areas of UP who desire to take up technical or professional education relocate to bigger cities like Noida and Lucknow. The divide is reflected gender-wise too. Males in UP spend almost double of the females students have to on pursuing technical or professional courses. For female students, the cost is Rs 44,979 while it is Rs 85,528 for males in urban UP for a year. In terms of distribution of students by type of course, 1.7% rural males and 1.1% rural females pursue technical courses in UP while 98.9% females and 98.3% males pursue general courses. The difference is more in urban areas where 7% males and 4% females take up technical courses while 93% males and 96% females study general courses. According to Geeta Gandhi Kingdon, professor of education economics at University College London, parents educating daughters at university level are an “above average enlightened” lot. “The gender gap is largely due to an asymmetry in parental incentives to invest in sons and daughters, as technical courses are more expensive. They see any return on a daughter’s education accruing to her in-laws’ family while the entire return on a son’s education is seen as accruing to the parents,” said Kingdon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/technical-education-in-state-is-costliest-in-country-nso-report/articleshow/77272647.cms||Isha Jain
July 31, 2020||Rajkot||Doctors ‘breathe’ new life into infant girl in Rajkot||RAJKOT: “The doctors came as an angel for our baby,” said an emotional father after timely medical intervention saved the life of his one-year-old girl who had swallowed a glass bead that got stuck in her passage, almost killing the infant girl. When Suhana was brought to the Rajkot civil hospital on Sunday, doctors didn’t waste time on more tests after detecting the foreign particle stuck in trachea from a bronchoscopy and decided to operate upon her. This timely decision not only saved the Amreli girl’s life, but the restored happiness and faith in her agricultural labourer parents. The girl was discharged on Thursday evening. Sikandar and his wife brought Suhana to Rajkot on Sunday on the reference of Amreli civil hospital doctors. The agricultural labourer in Savarkundla town first took his child to the local government hospital in Amreli after she started having breathing complained difficulties last week. Associate professor of ENT department Dr Sejal Mistry said, “We immediate got a chest X-ray done and saw something stuck in her bronchus. It normally requires a CT scan of chest for more information, but this would delay matters and also the CT scan machine is being used for Covid patients. We didn’t want to take the risk of infecting the child.” Thereafter doctors decided to immediately operate her without any further testing as already she was brought to the hospital four days after she had swallowed the bead. The ENT specialists immediately performed bronchoscopy after giving her anaesthesia and successfully removed the bead. Sikandar said, “We both were scared for our daughter’s life. We could hear the noise when she took breath and had almost lost hope.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/docs-timely-decision-saves-baby-with-bead-in-her-airway/articleshow/77269105.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Goa||40k saplings planted for Van Mahotsava||Panaji: Nearly 40,000 fruit-bearing plants and grafts have been planted in July as part of Van Mahotsava in Goa, the agriculture department said. “Each constituency is supposed to sow 2,000 plants. However, there is additional demand in some constituencies which we are fulfilling. The distribution of 50% fruit plants has been done so far,” deputy director of agriculture, Chintamani Perni said. The 40,000 saplings were that of coconut, mango, chickoo, guava, lemon, soursop, arecanut, jamun, cashew and other fruit bearing plants that grow well in Goan soil. Saplings of curry leaves and black pepper were also distributed. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/40k-saplings-planted-for-van-mahotsava/articleshow/77272082.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Surat||Surat: Textile unit owner kills his father in family’s presence||SURAT: In what looks like a bloody fall-out of pent-up frustration, a textile unit owner stabbed his 71-year-old father to death after a domestic quarrel in a joint family took an ugly turn in the posh Althan area on Thursday. Sanjay Agarwal, the unit owner, stabbed his father Mohanlal with a knife in their flat when all the family members were present. Agarwal was scolding his two teenage daughters over studies when his father intervened and tried to placate his anger. However, this led to a bitter argument between them and Agarwal got a knife from another room. He then stabbed Mohanlal on the left shoulder in front of the family members including the daughters. Mohanlal, who collapsed on the floor and suffered heavy blood loss. His elder son Rajiv called an ambulance and rushed him to the New Civil Hospital (NCH) where he died during treatment due to excessive blood loss. According to police, Agarwal lives with his wife, two daughters, parents and brother Rajiv’s family on the eighth-floor flat of Sentossa Heights in Althan area. The complaint in the case was lodged by Rajiv, who also lives in the same house with his family. Rajiv said in his complaint that Sanjay was scolding his daughters - aged 17 and 13 years when Mohanlal had intervened. The brothers jointly run a lace strip making unit in Anjana area and are financially sound, police informed. Their units were closed due to lockdown and were yet to reopen. The family has been at home for the past four months. “Sanjay had escaped after the incident. We are trying to locate him,” said a police officer at Khatodara police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/textile-unit-owner-kills-father-in-front-of-family/articleshow/77269177.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Rajkot||Apples blossom in Kutch as farmer’s trial bears fruits||RAJKOT: If its dates have filled you with sweetness, now let a Kutchi apple a day help you keep all ailments at bay. No, don’t read the sentence again as apple farming is indeed being experimented by a farmer in arid Kutch’s Nakhatrana region. If his tryst with the cold-weather fruit brings sweet success, then Shantibhai Mavani in Khirasara Roha will add another feather to his cap, after his successful experimentation on Kesar mangoes and the exotic dragon fruit. The pioneer Kesar mango grower in the arid desert has been toiling hard for the past five years to grow Himachal Pradesh apples in his orchard. What inspired Mavani to grow this fruit was Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech as the then chief minister of Gujarat. “After the 2001 earthquake in Kutch, Modi as the chief minister then had promised to make Kutch like Kashmir. I started thinking as to how I can contribute to his dream and thereafter decided to grow apples, considered a monopoly of Kashmir,” Mavani told TOI. “I tried the rootstock method (a plant on to which another variety is grafted) of growing apples which finally gave me results. The speciality of this method is it controls the height of the plant and we can grow over 400 plants in one acre. This way more plants can be grown in a small piece of land,” said the farmer, who believes that after five years each tree will yield him 80kg apples in one season. According to Mavani, he started experimenting in trial and error method by dividing plants in groups and maintaining them with different methods to protect them from Kutch’s extreme temperature during peak summers. He covered one group of plants with a net to protect them from direct sunlight. In another, he employed coconut leaves as shields while he used plastic bags in the third method to cover his plants. The third method, however, failed. Mavani owns 25-acre land in Nakhatrana and Mandvi taluka and next year he plans growing apples in a bigger piece of land. “I request the government to give farmers subsidies to grow apples besides providing us with a net house to protect the plants from direct sunlight in extreme weather conditions. Such incentives will encourage other farmers to grow apples too,” said the farmer. Deputy director in-charge of the horticulture department, Kutch, K P Sojitra said, “It’s a lone experiment by a single farmer. Our weather conditions wouldn’t make the apple taste the same as those in Kashmir or Himachal Pradesh surely, but in the future, it can be definitely be made commercially viable after experimentation by agriculture scientists.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/red-apples-blossoming-in-kutch-farmers-experiment-bears-fruits/articleshow/77269128.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Dehradun||Badrinath, Yamunotri highways blocked, Met issues orange alert in 5 dists||Dehradun: The Rishikesh-Badrinath and the Yamunotri national highways were blocked by recurring landslides triggered by incessant showers in the hills, which started on Wednesday night and continued well into Thursday. Neither highway has been opened yet. A stretch of the Badrinath highway (NH-58) was washed away at Totaghati. It remained out of bounds for commuters due to accumulation of debris at Muliya village near Devprayag and at Kirtinagar. According to State Emergency Operation Centre (SEOC), the Yamunotri highway was closed at Dabarkot in Uttarkashi district as rocks and boulders kept falling on the road from the hills. Meanwhile, the regional meteorological centre has issued an orange alert of heavy to very rainfall, with intense showers at isolated places in Pithoragarh, Bageshwar and Chamoli districts on July 31. Incidents of lightning can also occur at isolated places, the Met office said. Since Wednesday night, several places in Uttarakhand received heavy to moderate rainfall, with Haripur receiving the maximum (100mm rainfall), followed by Dhumakot (70mm), Tehri (70mm), Devprayag (70mm), Tyuini (60mm) and Ukhimath (50mm).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/badrinath-yamunotri-highways-blocked-met-issues-orange-alert-in-5-dists/articleshow/77269201.cms||Gaurav Talwar
July 31, 2020||Lucknow||Rivers breach red mark; 65k hit, over 8k hectare flooded||Lucknow: Rising water in Saryu and Sharda rivers has affected more than 65,000 people across eight districts in UP, including Barabanki, Ayodhya, Kushinagar and Gorakhpur. Around 8,400 hectares of cropped land is under water and a survey is being carried out to assess the exact damage. Relief commissioner Sanjay Goyal said the situation was being monitored at both the state and district level and the flood situation was so far “not alarming”. He said: “As per our reports, 240 villages under 17 tehsils are affected by the rising water. These include 57 villages in Barabanki, two in Ayodhya, nine in Kushinagar, 80 in Gorakhpur, 14 in Azamgarh, seven in Basti, 68 in Sant Kabir Nagar and 3 in Sitapur.” Goyal said agricultural land has been affected in seven districts, comprising Kushinagar, Mau, Sitapur, Barabanki, Basti, Gonda and Sant Kabir Nagar. Of this, 8,400 hectare where crops have been sown was under water and the government was carrying out an assessment of the exact loss in order to be able to compensate farmers, he said. “The irrigation department has informed us that the two rivers are flowing above the danger mark. Sharda is 8cm above the red mark in Lakhimpur, while Saryu and Ghaghra are 16cm above the danger line in Ballia,” he said. The official said on July 10, it was decided to distribute food to affected families. Each kit consists of 10kg flour, 10kg rice, 10kg potato, 5kg puffed rice, 2kg chana, 2kg arhar dal, 500gm salt, 250gm turmeric chilli & dhaniya powder each, 5 litre kerosene oil, one packet of candles, one match box, 10 packets of biscuits, 1 litre refined oil, chlorine tablets and bathing soaps. Till now, 94 shelters have been set up and 4,646 kits have been distributed. The relief department has given 24,106 m tarpaulin to each family. 381 boats have been deployed and 647 flood centres have been set up. For animals, the government is providing 5kg fodder per animal per day. In addition to this, 14 animal shelters have been set up. Goyal said the national disaster relief force has been deployed in Bahraich, Siddharthnagar, Shraswasti, Kushinagar, Maharajganj and Prayagraj. The state disaster relief force was deployed in Kushinagar, Gorakhpur, Prayagraj, Balrampur and Moradabad. The PAC was stationed at Bahraich, Barabanki, Shrawasti and Balrampur. Government has allocated Rs 9 crore to sensitive districts as an interim relief fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rivers-breach-red-mark-65k-hit-over-8k-hectare-flooded/articleshow/77272654.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Goa||GHAG offers to assist in KA theatre college shift to PWD||Panaji: The Goa Heritage Action Group (GHAG) has offered to assist the Kala Academy college of theatre arts to shift its institute to the old PWD building. GHAG has offered its assistance in the evaluation of the heritage value of the building, structural evaluation of the building from the heritage or restoration point of view and the adaptive reuse of the building while keeping the heritage value intact. In a letter addressed to the minister of art and culture and KA chairman, Govind Gaude, GHAG chairperson Heta Pandit has said that the group would offer its assistance without any remuneration. TOI had reported on July 27 that the former PWD office may soon become the new premises for the Kala Academy’s Goa College of Theatre Arts. Gaude, along with the college management, is in talks with the state government to grant them the heritage building to be utilized as the college campus. Sources from the college told TOI that the chief minister, Pramod Sawant has shown them a thumbs-up to go ahead. The process of shifting is likely to be taken up soon, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ghag-offers-to-assist-in-ka-theatre-college-shift-to-pwd/articleshow/77272084.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Pune||IITM scientist, 2 Mumbai firm directors face CBI probe over procurement fraud||PUNE: The CBI’s Anti-Corruption Branch (ACB) in Pune on Wednesday carried out simultaneous searches at the residential and on office premises of two senior IITM officials and two directors of a Mumbai-based private firm, among others, in relation to a criminal misconduct, cheating and forgery case registered against them on June 30. The searches led to recovery of incriminating documents and articles, senior Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) officials said on Thursday. The case is related to the procurement of 12 digital display boards for an Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) project on air quality monitoring and real-time display of air pollution levels from the Mumbai firm in 2011-12. The Mumbai firm had purchased the 12 digital display boards for a little over Rs38 lakh from a Chinese company and sold it to IITM for over Rs2.98 crore, almost eight times more than the procurement price, the FIR uploaded on the CBI’s website said. The firm also misrepresented itself as the original equipment manufacturer (OEM), a key requirement of the contract the FIR added. When contacted, IITM director Ravi Shankar Nanjundiah told TOI, “I would not like to comment on this. The issue is kind of under investigation.” The senior scientist facing the probe also told TOI, “I have no comments to offer for now, as the matter is under investigation by the CBI.” A senior CBI-ACB (Pune) official told TOI, “Though the alleged offence occurred during 2011-12, the CBI got a tip-off ofit last year, following which a preliminary inquiry was initiated on December 24, 2019. The registration of the FIR on June 30 is based on the outcome of the preliminary inquiry.” The FIR stated that the senior IITM scientist, along with a technical officer in-charge of purchases at the institute, entered into a criminal conspiracy with the Mumbai firm directors and caused wrongful loss of finance to Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology . The two IITM officials awarded the contract for the supply, commissioning and maintenance of ‘Digital Display System’ for the project, including supply of the 12 Outdoor True Colour LED Display Boards, to the Mumbai-based company in violation of the prescribed purchase procedures and rules and by way of disqualifying other bidders on flimsy grounds, the FIR stated. “The two IITM officials caused undue favour to the private supplier by accepting substandard and below specifications cheap digital display boards on exorbitant rates and caused huge loss to IITM,” the FIR added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/iitm-scientist-2-mumbai-firm-directors-face-cbi-probe-over-procurement-fraud/articleshow/77272073.cms||Neha Madaan
July 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Anti-human trafficking unit launched in Rachakonda||Hyderabad: An exclusive anti-human trafficking unit was started in Rachakonda commissionerate on Thursday, on the occasion of World Day Against Trafficking in Persons. Rachakonda police said that if any person comes across instances of human trafficking for sexual exploitation or forced labour, they can contact Anti-Human Trafficking Unit using 9491039109, Dial-100 and WhatsApp no. 9490617111. The unit was inaugurated by additional director general of police (law & order) Jitender. Rachakonda police has rescued 30 victims of human trafficking and nabbed 25 traffickers so far this year. In the last three years, 144 brothel houses have been sealed in Rachakonda commissionerate and PD Act has been invoked against 50 persons. An anti-human trafficking unit has already been operational in Crime Investigation Department (CID) since 2007.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/anti-human-trafficking-unit-launched-in-rachakonda/articleshow/77272088.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Rajkot||Car dealer booked for raping 25-year-old woman in Rajkot||RAJKOT: A 25-year-old woman was allegedly raped by a man who had promised to help her get a job and marry her. The woman, who works in a private hospital, lodged an offence of rape, cheating and criminal intimidation at Rajkot Taluka police station on Wednesday. According to the woman, the accused Imran Dela, who lives in Khodiyarnagar and deals in used cars, had called her a few years ago asking if she was looking for job. Dela asked her to meet him and then befriended her. After meeting her a few times, Dela told the woman that he likes her and would marry her. The duo then met often and Dela allegedly took her to different hotels and guest houses in Rajkot where he raped her several times. The woman also alleged that during their relationship, Dela also took over Rs 19 lakh from her in different amounts. In order to give him money, she mortgaged her mother’s jewellery and even took a personal loan of Rs two lakh. However, Dela reneged on his promise and got married to another woman from his community. When the woman confronted him, he threatened to share her personal photos on social media and make them viral. The woman then approached police and gave a complaint against Dela. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/car-dealer-booked-for-raping-25-year-old-woman/articleshow/77269203.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Pune||Uddhav Thackeray sets August 25 deadline for 3 jumbo Covid facilities in Pune||PUNE: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday set August 25 as the deadline for setting up the three makeshift jumbo Covid-19 treatment facilities in the city and getting the first one ready by August 20. He also emphasised on the Mumbai pattern of a central command system for bed management in Pune. Conducting the district’s Covid-19 review meeting at Vidhan Bhavan here in the presence of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, other ministers and administrative officers, Thackeray directed the district administration to speed up the finalisation of the locations and the agency needed for setting up these facilities on the lines of Mumbai’s facility at Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC). He said each facility should have 800 beds with oxygen supply. Pune district has so far recorded more than 78,000 Covid-19 cases. There has been a spurt in infections in recent weeks. Thackeray said that till the jumbo facilities were ready, government and private medical colleges, and private hospitals would have to ensure enough beds for Covid-19 patients. He directed the administration to have complete control on the bed allocation system with emphasis on equitable distribution of beds ward-wise, as was being done in Mumbai. Thackeray said collective efforts were needed to bring down the Covid-19 death rate in Pune city. He told the elected representatives and the administration to work as a “link” between citizens and the government in the ongoing fight against coronavirus. Thackeray said a central command system for bed management would help the administration give real-time date on bed availability on the dashboard. “No one should be careless in handling the first wave of pandemic in the state. Everyone needs to be cautious and work towards following the regulations,” he said. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, also the Pune district guardian minister, told officials to keep an eye on the bills issued by private hospitals and instructed the administration to ensure that there was no shortage of ICU beds. Environment minister Aditya Thackeray, ministers Dilip Walse-Patil, Dattatray Bharne, Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol, state BJP president Chandrakant Patil and other elected members from Pune and neighbouring Pimpri-Chinchwad were present for the meeting. From the administration, divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar, OSD to divisional commissioner’s office Saurabh Rao, Pune collector Naval Kishore Ram, Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar, Pimpri Chinchwad commissioner Shravan Hardikar and the police commissioners of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cm-sets-august-25-deadline-to-complete-3-jumbo-covid-care-centres-stresses-on-central-command-system-for-bed-allotment/articleshow/77272089.cms||Nisha Nambiar
July 31, 2020||Mangaluru||446 test +ve on coast, 105 patients discharged in DK||Mangaluru/Udupi: Covid-19 cases continued to mount in Dakshina Kannada (DK) and Udupi on Thursday. The 446 fresh cases reported in the two districts – 248 in Udupi and 198 in DK— meant that the coast has crossed the 400 mark for the second time since July 25, when 400 fresh cases were reported. The two districts also reported 12 Covid-19-related fatalities on the day. A 36-year-old woman resident of Puttur was the youngest among the eight, who on Tuesday succumbed to comorbidities that included refractory hypoxaemia, refractory acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), septic shock and renal failure. An 87-year-old woman from Mangaluru died due to refractory hypoxaemia and refractory ARDS on Wednesday. Swab reports of the other six victims with diverse comorbidities too came out positive. Influenza-like illness (ILI) continued to contribute to the Covid-19 surge in DK, with 80 of the 198 cases being categorised as such, stated the district health bulletin that deputy commissioner K V Rajendra issued. The source of infection in 73 other people who tested positive is under investigation, 27 are primary contacts of infected patients, 14 were diagnosed with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and five are people with international travel history, Rajendra said. On the flip side, the discharge of 105 patients that took the total number of those discharged to 2,561 meant that DK had 2,800 active cases against 5,509 positive cases reported thus far. The health authorities as on date have tested 38,814 samples out of which 33,305 tested negative. Dr Rajendra said the best practices initiated by his predecessor Sindhu B Rupesh in Covid-19 management will be continued and deficiencies, if any, addressed. Four deaths in Udupi took the total deaths in the district to 29 and 298 fresh cases meant that the total positive cases breached the 4,000 mark at 4,143. The district now has 1,669 active cases, Udupi DC G Jagadeesha stated in the district bulletin. The four who died included a 70-year-old woman, 67-year-old man, 80-year-old woman and 63-year-old woman, who had ILI, fever and breathlessness, diabetes, hypertension and asthma, combined with SARI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/446-test-ve-on-coast-105-patients-discharged-in-dk/articleshow/77269186.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
July 31, 2020||Nagpur||Illegal bovine slaughter rising but no space for rescued animals||Nagpur: With the festival of of Bakri Eid drawing close, the demand for cattle meat is on the rise, leading to large-scale illegal slaughtering of cows and oxen in the city. Though Muslim leaders have appealed to the community not to consume cow meat for Eid, the same is not being followed. Three days back, a truck carrying around 20 bovines without the mandatory permit was caught by cops in Hudkeshwar. The animals were not only being transported illegally but in miserable conditions, which led to death of six cows. The driver reportedly ran away from the spot. TOI learnt that police officials had to run from pillar to post to find shelter for the rescued animals. Most cow shelters in the city limits refused to take in the animals, citing shortage of space and funds. After a lot of efforts by animal activists and commissioner of police BK Upadhyay, animals were shifted to a shelter in Kalmeshwar. While cases of illegal transportation and slaughtering are increasing, there seems to be no place to keep the rescued bovines. “The gaushalas are not willing to take in animals. Some say they don’t have space, some say they don’t have money and manpower to take care of animals. The state government had given them crores of funds following beef ban but the gaushala owners failed to use them for creating appropriate facilities,” said animal activist Karishma Galani. Owner of a gaushala said, “We are running full and cannot accommodate more animals. The government brought the rule but did not provide us additional manpower or space.” As per the Maharashtra Animal Preservation (Amendment) Act, 1995, the seized cows, bulls or bullocks must be handed over to the nearest gosadan, goshala, panjarpole or other such facility. The ban on the slaughtering of cows has remained on paper, activists added. “Most farmers are selling off unproductive bovines to butchers. The government brought the ban but failed to ensure its implementation. Even today, illegal slaughtering of cows is taking place at many areas including Mankapur, Pachpaoli, Mominpura, Gaddigodam etc. Beef is easily available in local markets,” said activist Jitu Kundwani. Sources told TOI slaughtering of cows takes place regularly in Bada Tajbagh but police are hesitant to raid the area due to strong opposition from locals. “Cops should identify such sensitive locations and organize consistent raids to bring an end to illegal slaughtering,” activists said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/illegal-bovine-slaughter-rising-but-no-space-for-rescued-animals/articleshow/77270631.cms||Manka Behl
July 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Unlock 3: Night curfew to go from August 1 in Gujarat||GANDHINAGAR: After the central government issued general guidelines for Unlock 3.0, the Gujarat government on Thursday announced further relaxations from August 1. While the night curfew will no longer be in place from Saturday, the government has allowed shops and establishments, along with restaurants and hotels to remain open longer. The government also warned people and establishments, saying provisions have been made to even cancel licences of establishments where guidelines are flouted. Deputy chief minister Nitin Patel said, “Relaxations have been made in Unlock 3.0, but the government will strictly enforce safety guidelines. Establishments found flouting any guideline will be liable to lose their licence.” Chief minister Vijay Rupani chaired a meeting of ministers and officials on Thursday, during which it was decided to lift the night curfew. This was also part of the central government’s guidelines. From August 1, shops can remain open until 8pm while restaurants and hotels will be able to remain open until 10pm. Restaurants had sought permission to remain open till midnight. Rupani on Wednesday said that the state government’s aim was to ensure that the infection does not spread while economic activities continue. Religious functions for festivals will not be allowed in August and if the Covid situation stays like this, festivals such as Navratri will not be observed, the CM said. The government stressed that implementing agencies have been asked to strictly enforce rules on wearing masks and social distancing. The government recently raised the fine for not wearing a mask and spitting in public places to Rs 500 across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/unlock-3-night-curfew-to-go-from-august-1/articleshow/77270794.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Delhi||How anganwadis in Delhi turned over new leaf much before NEP||NEW DELHI: The recent National Education Policy stresses on the role of anganwadi workers to deliver early childhood care and education. Delhi has already been running such classes for almost a year, and, according to officials, the shift has helped in increasing the participation of students and their parents in the process. Anganwadis, started in 1975 under Integrated Child Development Services Scheme (ICDS), cater to neighbourhood children in the age group of 0-6 years and pregnant and lactating mothers to provide supplementary nutrition. The scheme was restructured under the 12th Five Year Plan to, among other things, ensure holistic development of children under 6 years. “In 2017, we started the process of training anganwadi centre staff to provide education. First, the supervisors were groomed as master trainers, and were made responsible for training others,” said an official at the Delhi women and child development department responsible for the scheme. Delhi has above 10,000 centres catering to over 1 lakh children and women. After initial training by NGO Pratham, over 300 supervisors trained around 10,000 workers. “Now only 4-5% of the new appointees need to be trained,” the official said. There is a fixed curriculum under which there are separate days for teaching colours, alphabets, animals, etc. Pre-school children, too, are taught same topics through play and activities. “The government provides chart papers, modules, play cards to the anganwadi workers,” said the official. The centres are closed due to the Covid-19 lockdown. “These children can now sing nursery rhymes and parents are excited to send them to us. Anganwadis are no longer what it used to be, it has changed,” the official said. To improve efficiency, two-three centres have joined hands to create 100 hubs. “Parents want to send their children to these hubs. Children can be grouped according to their ages and . There are dedicated playtime and lunchtime, and children enjoy it,” she said. Activists call the change a good start that can be improved further. “In our field visits, workers have showed how they have been able to develop soft skills, simulations. Now we will have to access the progress of children,” said Arvind Singh of NGO Matri Sudha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-anganwadis-in-delhi-turned-over-new-leaf-much-before-nep/articleshow/77293458.cms||Shradha Chettri
July 31, 2020||Lucknow||Vendors’ mobile numbers to be linked with Aadhaar||Lucknow: The state government has embarked on a mammoth exercise of linking mobile numbers with the Aadhaar card of street vendors who have been given a loan of Rs 10,000 as working capital under the PM Street Vendors Self Reliant Scheme. The scheme was announced last month to provide relief to scores of street vendors who were hit by novel coronavirus induced lockdown.In an order issued by principal secretary, urban development, Deepak Kumar, the linking of mobile numbers with the Aadhaar card will have to be done by banks, post offices and UID offices. Kumar said that the scheme is being monitored by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on a daily basis. “The linking will allow street vendors to apply for loan through an online mode in large numbers,” Kumar said.The move is seen as an attempt to bring in transparency and fix accountability on street vendors who would be required to return the loan within a year to banks. According to guidelines of the state government, no collateral would be required to be submitted to get the loan. The loan would be provided by scheduled commercial banks, regional rural banks, cooperative banks, non-banking financial companies (NBFC), micro-finance institutions and a few Self Help Group Banks.The scheme covers vendors who have been working before March 24 (when the first phase of lockdown was imposed) and those who were issued identity cards by the local bodies. The urban development department also asked local bodies to carry out a month-long drive to identify the left out street vendors and issue them identity cards.This is done to include vendors who were provided help by the state government during the lockdown and the ones who produce proof of membership of national association of street vendors of India/National Hawkers Federation.Already, the Small Industry Development Bank of India (SIDBI) has partnered with the housing and urban development department at the Centre. The vendors would get a subsidy of 7% on interest payable, which would be deposited in their account every third month. The scheme would promote the facility of cash back through digital payments. In case vendors pay their loans timely or before the due date, they would qualify for further working capital. No fine will be imposed on vendors who pay the loan timely, the guidelines said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vendors-mobile-numbers-to-be-linked-with-aadhaar/articleshow/77272691.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Rajkot||Cop arrested for asking Rs 80K bribe||Rajkot: A constable of Bhaktinagar police station was arrested by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on Wednesday for demanding a bribe of Rs 80,000 to not register a case of prohibition. The cop Mehul Dangar, who is in the detection squad of the police station, had demanded Rs 90,000 from the friend of the man who was to be booked for prohibition. The complainant had recorded the audio of conversation between him and Dangar. ACB sleuths said that the demand was made on July 27 and as the man did not want to give bribe, he approached with a complaint and the audio recording on July 28. Meanwhile, the complainant and Dangar also negotiated the bribe amount and the cop agreed to accept Rs 80,000. As per ACB’s plan, the complainant went to the police station to give the bribe amount to Dangar on Wednesday. But he became suspicious about the complainant’s behaviour and refused the bribe. ACB officials said that although Dangar denied bribe, he was arrested as he made a demand earlier. “We have the call recording as evidence which shows that the cops had asked for money, so we have booked him and arrested him,” ACB officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cop-arrested-for-asking-rs-80k-bribe/articleshow/77269233.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Kanpur||1,300 piles completed in Priority Corridor of Kanpur Metro project, says UPMRC||Kanpur: Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) has completed more than half of the piling work in the nine-km-long Priority Corridor being constructed between IIT and Motijheel for the Kanpur Metro Rail project. Piling refers to digging the ground and putting iron net under it in order to lay the foundation of the structure. A total of 2,330 piles are to be prepared between IIT and Motijheel, out of which around 1,300 piles have been prepared so far. 45% of the work is yet to be completed. Construction of only eight piles is left between IIT Kanpur and Gurudev metro station. For this, an electric shutdown is needed near SPM Hospital, informed UPMRC. The corporation also informed that the civil construction of the Priority Corridor commenced on November 15 last year and the target to complete 1,277 piles by the end of July had been set. UPMRC has surpassed this target as it has prepared as many as 1,300 piles so far. Besides, 95 piers and 122 pile caps have also been constructed in the corridor so far. Construction/casting activities at the Casting Yard are also progressing well. So far, 44 Pier Caps, 78 U-girders and 57 Double T-girders have been cast. Of these, 28 pier caps and 4 double T-girders have been erected till now. If the construction is timely completed, Kanpur Metro will become operational either by the end of 2021 or early 2022.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/1300-piles-completed-in-priority-corridor-of-kanpur-metro-project-says-upmrc/articleshow/77272204.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Dehradun||In minor bureaucratic rejig, 8 IAS officers transferred||Dehradun: In a minor bureaucratic reshuffle, the Uttarakhand government on Thursday evening transferred and gave new postings to 8 IAS officers. Among the transferred include the district magistrate (DM) of Udham Singh (US) Nagar, Neeraj Khairwal, against whom BJP legislator Rajesh Shukla had moved a breach of privilege motion in the state assembly. The other DMs who were transferred are of Bageshwar, and Uttarkashi district. Khairwal has been made the additional secretary to CM, energy and managing director of the Uttarakhand Power Corporation Limited (UPCL). IAS officer Ranjana, who was the DM of Bageshwar, has been moved to US Nagar in the same capacity. Vineet Kumar, the chief development officer (CDO) of Nainital, has been made the DM Bageshwar. The DM of Uttarkashi, Ashish Kumar Chauhan, replaced IAS officer Sonika and was made the additional secretary and CEO of the Uttarakhand Civil Aviation Development Authority (UCADA). In his place, the CDO of US Nagar Mayur Dixit has been made new DM of Uttarkashi district. Replacing Dixit, Himanshu Khurana has been made the new CDO. He was, till now, working in Pauri in the same capacity. The municipal commissioner of Haridwar, Narendra Singh Bhandari, has been made the CDO of Nainital. Meanwhile, the state government also transferred five PCS officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-minor-bureaucratic-rejig-8-ias-officers-transferred/articleshow/77269228.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Changed timings for Covid tests leave Telangana residents in a fix||HYDERABAD: Constant changes in the policy of Covid-19 testing has continued in the state, the latest being the timing of the testing (especially antigen) in all the centers outside government hospitals. In the past few days, the authorities have cut short the timings of sample collection from residents. Now, all the centres close by 2pm in the afternoon. Unknowingly, many people who go after 2pm are being refused tests by the authorities. Now, the tests are being conducted between 9am-2pm unlike earlier, when the tests used to happen till 5pm. “I went to the Primary Health Care Centre (PHC) in Borabanda, but they said that tests are not possible because they have to update the records early. I had to return,” SM Reddy, a private employee said. According to authorities, these changes were initiated as the new antigen tests have to be uploaded to state and ICMR portal by the health department. The local authorities have to enter their data quickly. “This is also due to the fact that the Covid- 19 bulletin is being released early in the morning unlike earlier and authorities want the testing to be closed early,” said a source in the health department. The change in timings was initiated as many technicians and staff complained that staying in Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits for long hours had become burdensome for them. However what is worrying for residents is that no report is given to people on the tests in most cases. “A report is being given only when someone tests positive and wants to get admitted in the hospital,” said a source. Not having a certificate of being negative may not be a problem for the people but for those who test positive, it is a cause of concern. Some hospitals are very particular about furnishing a coronavirus positive report before admitting them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/changed-timings-for-covid-tests-leave-residents-in-a-fix/articleshow/77272114.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 31, 2020||Nagpur||Despite unlocking, labourers continue to return to villages||Nagpur: Ram Singh comes out of the railway station with a group of six others, including children. Some men follow them asking if they need a transport. “We have no money,” he tells them. The group had boarded the train at Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh. From Nagpur, they were heading to Seoni in Madhya Pradesh. If not in thousands walking on the highways like before, labour migration continues in small groups even as many states have entered the unlock phase. With trains starting, those like Ram Singh continue to make their journey homewards, while some are also seen heading back towards cities from their villages where they had returned during the lockdown. “Limited number of trains are halting at Nagpur. Yet no less than 100-150 labourers alight each day. Most have no money to reach their homes in Madhya Pradesh or Chhattisgarh. We drop them till the highways and ask the truckers to take them further,” said a local who used to work as an auto driver. “Our condition is worse. We cannot ply due to the ban,” said one of them. Ram Singh and his group had worked in a juice factory since March. After managing throughout the lockdown, they finally left for Seoni. Mahesh Kumar and his friends had gone to Visakhapatnam after the lockdown ended, to work in an aluminium factory. “We were duped. They did not pay us wages. All we got was money for food in the beginning. We got money transferred into our accounts from our homes and bought a ticket to Nagpur,” he said. They were heading for Mandla district and planned to walk down rest of the way. A family from Chhattisgarh waited to board a train to Secunderabad. After staying in their native village where they had returned to during lockdown, they were heading to the city again. “The contractor called us saying there is work,” said the man.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/despite-unlocking-labourers-continue-to-return-to-villages/articleshow/77270717.cms||Shishir Arya
July 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Delhi man booked in Hisar for Rs 5cr GST fraud||Hisar: The police have registered a case of Goods and Services Tax (GST) fraud against a Delhi-based owner of a bogus firm claimed to be located in Hisar. The accused allegedly utilised input tax credit to the tune of over Rs 5 crore for the disposal of output tax liability of some fictitious firms without actually paying the tax. Based on a complaint of excise and taxation officer (ETO) Sanjeeta Kochar, a case under Section 420 (cheating) of the IPC has been registered against accused Govinda, a resident of Nihal Vihar, Nilothi, New Delhi and proprietor of the bogus firm, registered by the name of M/s Radhika Traders, Namdev Dharamshala, Hisar. In her complaint, the ETO stated that the said proprietorship firm was registered under the GST Act, 2017, and had a linked account of Bank of Baroda, Paschim Vihar, New Delhi. “In course of verification, it was found that no such firm exists at the location mentioned by the proprietor in his application for GST registration,” the ETO said in her complaint. As per the returns submitted by the accused, total outgo of Rs 41,52,08,300 was shown by him and he transferred fake input tax credit of Rs 5,68,39,837 to various firms. Govinda has been found involved in evasion of tax through bogus businesses registered under the GST Act, 2017 and by wilfully making wrong statements and suppressing facts, thus causing loss of revenue to the state exchequer, the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/delhi-man-booked-in-hisar-for-rs-5cr-gst-fraud/articleshow/77272090.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Nagpur||‘Off label plasma transfusionwill establish its role in cure’||IAS officer Dr Sanjay Mukherjee, who recently handed over the charge of the state medical education secretary, initiated the world’s largest plasma therapy trial-cum-project — Platina — for severe Covid-19 patients last month amid a frantic search for a cure. The state government has simultaneously started clinical plasma trials and its off label use, which is done in emergencies on a case-to-case basis. In an interview to TOI, the GMCH alumnus and former Nagpur collector spoke at length about the project’s conception, the state’s gains and the need for plasma donation in the fight against Covid-19. Excerpts... Q. How did the idea of platina therapy come about?A. Plasma as a mode of treatment has been in existence since the last 100 years as part of the infectious disease management. What basically happens is that an infected person develops antibodies. These neutralizing antibodies are present in the plasma which is transfused to a newly-infected person so that the antibody titer increases. In the initial days of Covid-19, there were some serious cases on whom we tried the therapy on compassionate grounds. The first case was not successful but the later results were pretty encouraging when we used plasma. After that, the ICMR started the PLACID trials on mild and moderate cases. Four government colleges – GMCH Nagpur, Mumbai, Kolhapur and Pune – and one BMC’s Nair Medical College played a part. Since there was no major trial for severe Covid-19 cases, we conceived the Platina Trial to make a breakthrough in the treatment of severe and critical cases. Q. What are the components of the Platina project?A. It is a trial on the use of plasma as a therapy for severe and critical Covid-19 cases being carried out at 21 centres. This is the largest trial in its category in the world. The establishment of plasma banks in each of the centres has been completed. The outreach project to enrol plasma donors all over the state is under way. There is a provision in the project for giving encouragement to them. The off label use of plasma under emergency authorization as approved by the ministry of health and family welfare, government of India, is another component of the project. Q. Did you plan to include the critically-ill initially?A. The ICMR ‘Placid trial’ is for mild and moderate cases. However, in the cases done under compassionate grounds, we saw encouraging results and therefore, I felt that the use of plasma in critically-ill patients needs to be examined. Hence, we examined the pros and cons and prepared the proposal of the platina trial for severe cases. This was over 21 centres. The drug controller general of India (DGCI) has given approval for the trial and today, the trial is being conducted in 17 government medical colleges and 4 BMC medical colleges. If other institutes wish to join this trial, they can approach the principal investigator who can take it forward. One of the institutes that has approached us is the Symbiosis Medical College.Their proposal is being examined. Q. When will the off label use begin?A. It has already begun. More than 90 severe patients have got off label plasma. Around 418 recovered patients have donated plasma till now. This is not a small figure. We are starting collection camps like the one held in Dharavi, Nasik, etc. The process of the trial is distinct from that of the off Label use under emergency authorization. The trial is as per the approval of DCGI and has to follow the strict approved protocol. There is strict confidentiality requirements and these trials are held using the methods of randomized control trials with double blind technique. It is the responsibility of the principal investigator to ensure that the confidentiality agreement and DCGI requirements are strictly followed. This trial will establish the role of plasma in treatment of severe and critical Covid-19 cases. It will encourage further research, like research on monoclonal antibodies which we plan to take along with the Haffkine Institute. The off label use has to be done as per the orders of DCGI. This is separate from the trial and I’ve explained the indications earlier. The results of off label use are very encouraging. I have appointed the DMER and Dean of GMC as the administrative chiefs of this trial-cum-project. There is a separate officer in-charge of the outreach program to collect plasma and a separate principal investigator for the whole project. In addition, each centre would have their separate outreach officers and investigators. Q. How do you plan to increase donors?A. The preliminary steps are to set up plasma banks, arrange equipment and reagents, train manpower, etc. All that has been done. Donors would be essentially those who would have had Covid-19 earlier, and preferably severe cases as usually the antibody titre is higher. The DCGI has mentioned the titres that must be reached and we have tied up with the National Institute of Virology (Pune) to do the antibody titres for us. Counselling of patients is a must and they must be encouraged to donate plasma and participate in the “Donate Plasma. Save a life” campaign. Hence all patients are counselled and advised to report back after 28 days, when the antibody titres are satisfactory. There are some other requirements, like being infection free, minimum haemoglobin, etc. If these are met, then plasma is extracted. We intend to have a massive outreach program through all media, print and electronic, mainstream and social to encourage donors. Print, TV, radio and other campaigns are at various stages. We have also budgeted Rs2000 per donor for food and other requirements for 5000 donors. This should be sufficient to collect 2,000 litres in our plasma banks. This is a very ambitious target. Q. Who can donate plasma for off label transfusion?A. Obviously, Covid-19 survivors. However, the more severe the disease the survivor has faced, the better is the chance of having a high titre of neutralizing antibodies. Critical cases are around 1% of the total cases and severe cases around 3%. Thus, the real effective catchment is this narrow band of survivors who are encouraged to visit blood bank 28 days after recovery. They need to have a minimum haemoglobin and other requirements. 400ml Plasma is extracted for donation along with an addition of another 20ml which is used to estimate the titre. Donation of blood plasma in no way affects the overall health of eligible donors.Q. How do you decide who gets its?A. For off label use, the indication is given by the ministry of health and family welfare, government of India. To further fine tune the issue, the State Task Force for Covid-19 has fine tuned the indications, which have been circulated to all Dedicated Covid Hospitals for implementation.Q. How far have we come in our learning curve while treating Covid-19?A. We have indeed come a long way fighting this pandemic. From awareness of the effectiveness of the use of masks to fine tuning the treatment regimen a lot of progress has been made. Now, the preventive measures, the administrative measures, the role of the community and the treatment regimen are pretty much well tuned. All these are now prepared by experts, vetted by the DMER or DHS and approved by the government. Q. Frequent revisions are creating doubts about coronavirus.A. In fact, the only major revision made by the WHO is regarding the use of masks. Initially, the WHO said masks are not mandatory. In fact, there was a confusion between “absence of evidence” and “evidence of absence”. However, now that’s clear and masks are mandatory in public places. If the entire community wears masks, it has the potential of controlling the epidemic in its entirety. However, the other guidelines like social distancing, sanitization, etc. remains the same. To make things clear, the Medical Education and Drugs Department has brought out some publications. “Compendium of Instructions of Managing a Covid-19 Facility”, “Operational Guidelines for setting up a Covid-19 Facility”, “ Operational Guidelines for setting up a Covid-19 Lab”, etc are free resources, available on our website, twitter handle etc. These give clear guidelines to administrators, doctors and the general public to remove confusion. In addition, MEDD publishes a daily report which gives an open transparent take on the situation every day to the general populace. For the general public, one simply needs to remember SMS —Social Distancing, Masks, Sanitisation — as the three cardinal preventive measures.Q. What about testing?A. We can proudly say that Maharashtra is leading the country in testing with more labs and capacity than many European nations. From two labs when the pandemic began to 133 labs now, we have created almost a lab a day. We got our testing capacity audited by a third party, i.e. AIIMS, Nagpur, and that’s around 58,600 per day. Recently, Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the through put RTPCR lab at NIRRH that has an additional capacity of 1200 per day, the largest in the country. The US, with 34 crore samples, was testing around a lakh plus samples a day and we, with 11 crore, test 50,000 and our number is growing. We have all the testing technologies, RTPCR, TRUNAT, CBNAAT, antigen and evening antibody testing. However, antibody testing is only for sero surveillance and is not counted amongst the testing figures. Q. Why was Nagpur chosen as the state’s lead centre for the Platina Trials?A. The idea was conceived during my visit to Nagpur. Several officers were willing to take ownership and leadership. Large trials and outreach programs do need a lot of commitment and hence, a core team comprising Dean GMC Nagpur Dr Sajal Mitra as the administrative chief, Dr Sushant Meshram as the principal investigator and Dr M Faizal as the outreach incharge was formed under the overall supervision of the DMER. GMC Nagpur has a long history of research and teaching and I’m confident they will do a good job of leading the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/off-label-plasma-transfusionwill-establish-its-role-in-cure/articleshow/77300844.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 31, 2020||Hubballi||Fatalities in North K’taka being underreoprted?||Belagavi: If observations made by a wide cross-section of residents in North Karnataka is to be believed, the number of Covid-19 fatalities being reported by the authorities could be only a fraction of the actual number of people succumbing to the novel coronavirus in the region. For instance, an ambulance driver in Belagavi claimed that two vehicles had, for the past fortnight, been transporting at least four bodies daily. His is not a solitary voice questioning the data disclosed by the officials. Khaleel, a garment trader in Bidar, said that the cloth used by Muslims at funerals to cover the body, had been flying off his shelves in the past fortnight. “Normally, not more than one or two of these cloths are sold on a daily basis. But I sold nearly 15 of them a few days ago,” he said. Dr Maqsood Chanda, who has been assisting the district administration’s efforts to combat the pandemic in Bidar, opined that the number of fatalities there was likely to be five times higher than what the actual figure reflected: 70. In Belagavi, 58 people have succumbed to the pandemic, but Dr Chanda suspects that the figure might be much higher in the border district as well. Sources hint at two possible motives for fatalities being underreported in the region: Hospitals fear a loss of reputation and people in general remain mum about the cause if it is Covid-19 owing to the stigma attached to it. A source at the Raichur Institute of Medical Sciences claimed that there was a discrepancy in the number of fatalities being reported in the official bulletin and the bodies he said were being taken out of the hospital. “Patients’ registers are also guarded very tightly, which makes one question if there is enough transparency in the process,” he said. In Belagavi, around six fatalities are being reported, on average, daily. “But we are ferrying nearly eight bodies from the Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences (BIMS) to the mortuary every day. I was pressed into duty a fortnight ago, and the number of people we are taking to the mortuary has been more or less the same,” said Ramesh, an ambulance driver pressed into pandemic duty. Dr Chanda opined that nearly 10 people were succumbing to the novel coronavirus in Bidar every day. However, BIMS director Vijay Dastikop said that the death of all patients by Covid-19 at the hospital was being duly reported. “The delay in reporting of fatalities is primarily because of the late arrival of reports. Some patients have died before the tests have confirmed the infection,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/fatalities-in-north-ktaka-being-underreoprted/articleshow/77269266.cms||Shreyas HS
July 31, 2020||Kanpur||Pneumonia vaccine launch in 56 districts on August 8||Kanpur: The health department is launching pneumococcal vaccine in 56 districts, including Kanpur, from August 8, 2020 to check deaths of children due to pneumonia. The vaccine would be included in regular vaccination of infants from August 8. The pneumococcal vaccine protects children from pneumonia, sepsis (blood infection) and bacterial meningitis. A two-day workshop held in the city from July 27 was addressed by the experts of World Health Organization and specialists from Unicef. The chief medical officer was also present in the workshop. The specialists would now train Asha workers at block-level about the vaccine. District immunization officer Dr A K Kannaujia said the vaccine would be administered in three doses to babies up to one year. First two primary vaccines would be administered at six and 14 weeks and a booster dose would be given at nine months. “The vaccine would reduce the mortality rate of pneumonia. It had been included in the regular vaccination programme in 19 districts. Now, it will be launched in 56 districts, including Kanpur,” said Kannaujia. Chief medical officer Dr Anil Kumar Mishra said, “Streptococcus pneumonia bacteria is usually found in nose and throat. It can spread to other parts of body and cause sepsis, bacterial meningitis, otitis media (ear infection), sinusitis and bronchitis.” Health teams would administer the vaccine at all booths of the district.The bacteria spreads due to coughing and sneezing and can be fatal for people with weak immunity, like children or senior citizens, the CMO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/pneumonia-vaccine-launch-in-56-districts-on-august-8/articleshow/77272188.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
July 31, 2020||Hyderabad||No constructions near Khajaguda lake: Telangana HC||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Thursday said no constructions within the full tank level (FTL) of Khajaguda lake would be allowed and asked the government to inform it by August 17 whether any lake protection committee (LPC) was constituted to protect lakes in Rangareddy district. Stating that there was no coordination among key departments like revenue, irrigation and GHMC, a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said: “If you (authorities) are not saving the lakes, you are jeopardising the lives of the people.” The judges said encroachers were exploiting lack of coordination among various wings. “There should be a permanent LPC and police should be made part of the committee,” they said. They were hearing a PIL filed by social activist Lubna Sarwath, who brought to the notice of the court construction activity undertaken by the authorities within Khajaguda lake area and sought directions to the government to stop forthwith any intervention with the lake. Amicus curiae MV Pratap Kumar told the bench that HMDA has two versions about the actual extent of Khajaguda lake. The bench had earlier directed HMDA to furnish to the court all the three maps that were showing different extents of the lake. The judges sought answers from HMDA for the discrepancies in the maps. They also sought to know from the government as to what concrete steps were taken to protect the lakes or to evict the encroachers in Rangareddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-no-constructions-near-khajaguda-lake/articleshow/77272141.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
July 31, 2020||Rajkot||Employee stabs cattle breeder in Jamnagar||RAJKOT: A cattle breeder was stabbed by a man working for him in Jamnagar on Wednesday. Police said that the victim Razaaq Khafi, a resident of Navagam Ghed, and the accused Vijay Ratadiya had heated arguments on Wednesday. Since Ratadiya had not been turning up for work for the past two days, Khafi pulled him up, which irked Ratadiya. After the verbal spat, Ratadiya stabbed him several times. Khafi was rushed to a nearby hospital where he is recuperating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/employee-stabs-cattle-breeder-in-jamnagar/articleshow/77269257.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Dehradun||Heavy rains trigger landslide, cause widespread damage in Mussoorie||MUSSOORIE: Two tin-shed shops near Tehri bus stand were washed away and a house was damaged near Hussain Gunj, as overnight heavy rains triggered landslide, causing widespread damage in Mussoorie. “We have suffered losses worth several lakh rupees,” lamented Baby Khatoon, whose family owned both the shops that were damaged. On Thursday, Mussoorie MLA Ganesh Joshi, along with sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Prem Lal, visited the sites. Eight families residing near the Tehri bus stand were shifted to a nearby school for safety reasons. Joshi directed the officials to provide support to the affected families. The SDM said all families living in landslide-prone areas would be identified and shifted elsewhere soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/heavy-rains-trigger-landslide-cause-widespread-damage-in-mussoorie/articleshow/77269289.cms||Anmol Jain
July 31, 2020||Kochi||Thrissur to host first virtual medical conclave in south India on August 1||Thrissur: For the first time in south India the medical conference will be held at Thrissur on August 1 through online ‘Virtual Bridge’, in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. As part of the first conclave, nearly 250 doctors from all over the world will be attending the conclave through the new virtual system. Thrissur-based event management group Daksh Events has arranged the virtual bridge system.“The virtual event will provide a better experience than a normal real-world event. The participants can join the event from anywhere in the world and be a part of conclave discussions. In addition to it will provide a better viewing experience with the help of 2D and 3D systems. It is also possible to shoot events at different locations and bring them to the audience’s attention at the virtual event. The participant can experience all these while staying at home,” said Dhishan Chandran Ammanath, managing director, Daksha Events.“In the next one year, most meetings and conclaves will be held online due to the pandemic. The virtual bridge facility will provide job opportunities to event management companies in the crisis situation. Through the system meetings and conclaves can be conducted at a low cost,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/thrissur-to-host-first-virtual-medical-conclave-in-south-india-on-august-1/articleshow/77269311.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Rajkot||AI at KASEZ to ensure contactless entry, exit||RAJKOT: Kandla SEZ (KASEZ) on Thursday said that it will install Artificial intelligence (AI) system to ensure contact less entry into the oldest special economic zone in the country. It was also planning smart street lighting. Officials of the KASEZ said that the AI facial recognition system will use internet of things (IOT) and machine learning techniques. A statement issued by KASEZ stated, “Commissioning this system will reduce manpower interference for entry and exit. This will be beneficiary during the Covid situation.” The system will also be helpful in traffic management at KASEZ for containers as well as passenger vehicles. The statement further stated that KASEZ was also going to install an path finding system as per global standards for visitors. The expression of interest for both the processes have been invited and deliberation to assign the tender is under process. KASEZ is spread in 1,000 acres and comprises of 255 industrial units. The SEZ will soon install 2,000 KLD (kilo litre per day) industrial effluent treatment plant and a RO plant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ai-at-kasez-to-ensure-contactless-entry-exit/articleshow/77269280.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Delhi||How ‘epicentre’ of Covid crisis in city managed a turnaround||New Delhi: In the serological survey carried out in Delhi, 28% of the population in Central district was found affected by the novel coronavirus, which was the highest across the city. An age-wise analysis of the positive cases revealed that those in the 31-40 year bracket (21.4%) were affected the most, followed by those in the 21-30 age group (20.7%). In all, 10,761 positive cases were reported in the district, which is spread over 21 sq km with a population of 5.8 lakh. While there were 6,721 (62%) male patients, infected women were 4,040. The district has many congested areas and at 27,730 people per sq km, it is the second most densely populated district in Delhi after North East. The highest Covid-related mortality rate in the district was among the 81-90 age group (23.7%), followed by the 71-80 (19%) and 91-100 (18.2%). From more than 350 new cases a day in June-end, the number now hovers between 50 and 100. The interval time for increase in Covid cases by 1,000 rose from a low of five days to 12 days. Central DM Nidhi Srivastava said the turnaround was possible after analysing the unique challenges of each area and then adopting a strategy to counter them. “At the start, we were one of the 20 worst-hit districts in India. While planning containment zones, we realised that the same strategy would not work in all the areas,” Srivastava said, adding that the district was not circular, but elongated in shape with high population density in most places. These included the Walled City, Kotwali area, Burari, etc, apart from congested markets. The DM said some of the first and large containment zones were in Old Delhi areas, like Sadar, Chandni Mahal, Nabi Karim, etc. “We first found out what kind of population lives in these areas. In Chandni Mahal, the awareness programme was very different. We decided to seek the help of Imams to spread information, apart from ASHA and health workers,” Srivastava added. Chandni Mahal was a huge containment zone and needed smaller clusters. “We adopted the strategy of micro containment zones from April itself. There were also isolated cases coming up and we would individually “tape” these houses,” said the DM. At the end of the spectrum range was Bapa Nagar near Karol Bagh where cases started increasing rapidly. The area was found having mostly migrant population and many of them were living in congested rooms. “We thought Bapa Nagar would go the Dharavi way. While home isolation was fine for Chandni Mahal, it was not possible at Bapa Nagar. We had to pull out people and send them to quarantine centres. After this, the graph actually dipped and the strategy worked in our favour,” she said. “At Nabi Karim, the graph saw a rapid increase. The demographic profile analysis revealed the population was a mix of local and migrants, largely comprising youth,” Srivastava said, adding that was the reason for the number of deaths in the area being very low. “Here we mixed the strategy. We pulled out people and made micro containment zones too, apart from taping houses,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-epicentre-of-covid-crisis-in-city-managed-a-turnaround/articleshow/77293465.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 31, 2020||Lucknow||‘Crowdfunding will help us meet additional cost’||The bhoomi pujan of Ram temple in Ayodhya will also herald a public connect campaign for crowdfunding. General secretary of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, Champat Rai, tells Shailvee Sharda that crowdfunding will be a major exercise to fund the temple construction. Excerpts...Q: The revised temple plan is here. The new structure is expected to be grander than before. What was the need for change?A: When the movement started, the premise of the Ram Janmabhoomi was much smaller. Accordingly, the architects visualized a temple that sprawled over one acre. But after the judgment in 2019, the trust got nearly 70 acre of land. Accepting the additional land as God’s will, the design was revised to give a grander temple. After all, it is related to the sentiments of millions across the world. Q: Is the design final? A: The trust will reveal the relevant details on the day of bhoomi pujan. Q: A bigger temple means additional cost. How is the trust going to meet the supplementary expenditure? A: Crowdfunding. The temple belongs to the people and the trust will approach the people to donate for the cause of their temple. We have decided to reach out to 10 crore families in the country. We will urge them to donate more than they can afford. In fact, a donation that doesn’t pinch is not a sacrifice which every believer must make. In 1989, we resorted to crowd funding for Ram Shila Pujan and collected donations from 6 crore people. Q: The puja is taking place in times of coronavirus pandemic. How are you going to ensure Covid-19 protocols?A: We are trying to keep the guest list as small as possible. Also, the administration has decided to make arrangements for social distancing. Masks are compulsory and each person will be seated in an area of 40 square feet so that the basic norms of social distancing are followed. Then the SPG is supervising the security to ensure that everything is in order. Q: You have been associated with the Ram temple movement for several decades now. Describe the feelings at the threshold of the historic event. A: I feel that the purpose of the entire movement has found its way. The only comparison I can draw is with the sentiment that most people in the country would have witnessed when India attained freedom. The end of a 500-year-old battle and beginning of a new chapter is no less than a ‘dream come true’. People from all over the country want to attend the event. But I am appealing them not to come. Had it not been for Covid-19, the bhoomi pujan would have been a function of a much bigger scale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/crowdfunding-will-help-us-meet-additional-cost/articleshow/77272715.cms||Shailvee Sharda
July 31, 2020||Vadodara||18-year-old woman kills self; husband, his mother booked in Vadodara||VADODARA: Husband of an 18-year-old woman and her mother-in-law were booked by Vadodara rural police for abetting her suicide. According to police, Alka Parmar ended her life at her home in Daulatpura village in Desar taluka on July 26 by hanging herself from ceiling fan. Her father Dadu Solanki told police that when he asked Parmar’s husband and in-laws about her death, nobody told him anything. Solanki said that two days before Parmar took the extreme step, she had called him and was crying on the phone. He alleged that Parmar had told her that her husband Shivang was not allowing her to wear any jewellery that she had received during her wedding. She also told him that her mother-in-law Saroj was also harassing her over petty issues. “The complainant alleged that due to in-law’s harassment the woman ended her life. When we questioned her husband and in-laws, they did not give any satisfactory reason for her death,” said a police official. Based on Solanki’s complaint, an offence of abetment of suicide and cruelty was registered at Desar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/18-year-old-woman-kills-self-husband-his-mother-booked/articleshow/77267911.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Nagpur||7 quarantined persons attend Covid victim’s funeral, booked||Yavatmal: Wani police have on Friday booked seven persons, including a woman, for violating Covid-19 quarantine rules. According to sources, a woman succumbed to coronavirus infection in Talao Phail area of Wani on Wednesday following which the administration had quarantined 64 persons from the locality. Ignoring the restrictions, seven people, including a woman, attended the funeral of the Covid victim. As the matter came to fore, the police have booked all the seven persons under relevant laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/7-quarantined-persons-attend-covid-victims-funeral-booked/articleshow/77270731.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC plans anti-mosquito operations along Musi||HYDERABAD: Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has identified 10 places along the Musi river which are major mosquito breeding points. The areas along Musi flowing from Attapur bridge to Dilsuknagar, Domalguda nala, Kalasiguda nala (Secunderabad) and Hussainsagar nala are some among the 10 breeding spots. According to a statement released by GHMC on Thursday, the civic body has take up anti-larvae operations along 21km of Musi river flowing in GHMC limits. “Three teams consisting of 50 staffers headed by two entomologists have been formed to reduce mosquito density along Musi and its vicinity,” read a statement issued by GHMC. “For spraying along Musi, drones have been pressed into service. Six vehicle mounted fogging machines and 15 portable fogging machines are also on field,” said an official from GHMC entomology wing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-plans-anti-mosquito-ops-along-musi/articleshow/77272155.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Dehradun||Om Prakash appointed new CS of Uttarakhand; says priority on completing projects of national relevance||Om Prakash, a 1987-batch IAS officer, was appointed as the 16th chief secretary (CS) of Uttarakhand on Thursday. He is expected to take charge on Friday evening. Prakash, regarded close to chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, is presently the additional chief secretary (CM). Earlier, he has looked after several key departments in the state, including health, PWD and civil aviation. Excerpts from a conversation with TOI: What will be your priority areas as you take up the top bureaucratic post in the state? There are some national level projects like construction and redevelopment of Kedarnath, the All-Weather Road for Char Dham and Rishikesh-Karnaprayag rail route - which are under progress in Uttarakhand. Besides, now plans are afoot to develop the area around the Badrinath dham. As these are projects which have a national relevance, my priority would be to ensure that they are completed on time. Also, preparations for Kumbh 2021 will be regularly monitored and it will be ensured that all ongoing projects are completed by February 2021. Tourism is the backbone of Uttarakhand’s economy. After Covid-19, how do you aim to bring it back on track? Tourism is a priority area as it is a major source of earning for a large number of people in the state. After the Covid-19 setback, we are opening temples and other locations in a phase-wise manner. Better road, air and rail connectivity will automatically boost the tourism sector and draw the attention of people from across the country. Intrastate chopper services have already been started. We will also focus on extensive road work and besides the Rishikesh-Karnaprayag rail line, we are going to lay thrust on key upcoming projects like the Doiwala-Uttarkashi rail route. The number of Covid-positive cases are on the rise in the state. How do you plan to check further spread of the disease? The sample testing capacity of the state has increased and we are making efforts to open more centres. We have enough number of hospital beds, ICUs and ventilators. Even though the number has increased, the state has also seen the recovery of nearly 4,000 people. The number of containment zones have been increased and we are focusing on smaller areas so that the management can remain effective. With lakhs of people back in Uttarakhand, employment has also become a major concern.. Our focus will be on both — providing government jobs as well as self employment. The CM Swarozgar Yojana has already been initiated which aims to provide financial assistance to those who want to start their own work. For the agriculture sector, the state has plans for cluster-based farming. Therefore, we are going to take up this matter on a large scale. Lately, there have been complaints by ministers regarding IAS officers not turning up for meetings and not taking their calls. How will you look into such issues? My thrust will be on team work. As they say, TEAM means ‘Together Everyone Achieves More’. We will work in a united way to take the path of growth. Better coordination and regular meetings will ensure that there are no complaints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/om-prakash-appointed-new-cs-of-uttarakhand-says-priority-on-completing-projects-of-national-relevance/articleshow/77269351.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 31, 2020||Lucknow||Unlock 3 to have more relaxations but same precautions and protocols||Most people are still not taking any precautions against coronavirus. Neither are they wearing masks nor following social distancing norms which are must to protect oneself from novel coronavirus, cautioned medical education minister Suresh Khanna. Reviewing the state’s preparedness for Unlock 3 announced by the central government, Khanna said that the state is ready to wage a decisive battle against Covid. As UP health minister is down with Covid-19, the medical education minister is holding the fort. He spoke to Subhash Mishra about Unlock 3 and how the state would ensure its effective enforcement. Q: What are the plans now after the Centre has unveiled guidelines for Unlock 3.0? A: This phase means more relaxations with the same precautions and protocols. But regretfully, in the past three months of the Covid crisis, despite launching several awareness campaigns, people are not following the protocol and this is the main reason for rising cases. People would have to follow precautions and enhance their immunity if they wish to lead a healthy life. In Unlock 3, precautions would be the same. Q: Five of your ministers and a dozen MLAs are down with Covid. It means the high and the mighty do not follow your appeal. A: “Corona na moonch se darta hai, na pud se, na pahalwani se. (Coronaviras can attack anyone. It hardly matters how much power one wields).” If one violates the basic protocol, there would be more chances of one getting affected. Q: If the cases are increasing can it be said that testing facilities and medical infrastructure are not up to the mark? A: No, it is not so. You can see the rate of recovery and the number of patients getting discharged from hospitals. Be it a 70-year-old man or a five-year-old child, the majority of them are being discharged after getting proper medical treatment. As far as the medical infrastructure is concerned, from one testing lab about three months back the state now has 50 and we are conducting over 1 lakh tests a day. Q: The number of cases indicates that the lockdown has failed to serve its purpose. A: Had the lockdown not been imposed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and strictly implemented by chief minister Yogi Adityanath in the state, the situation would have been worse than the US. The number of cases are showing a spike because testing has gone up and I am confident that soon it would be well under control. Q: Is the government planning to adopt a new strategy to handle recent spike in Covid cases? A: Apart from 50 testing labs, the state will also have labs in medical colleges and divisional headquarters soon. One level 3 bio safety lab (BSL) has been set up in Shahjahanpur and two in science institutes in Noida. The CM feels that the state should have one such lab in every district so that in case the state faces any such crisis in future, it would be ready in advance. Q: Any special appeal for people of the state as Unlock 3 unfolds? A: Everyone can keep themselves safe only by following Covid safety protocol and boosting immunity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/unlock-3-to-have-more-relaxations-but-same-precautions-and-protocols/articleshow/77272717.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Race for Vidyapith VC hots up||AHMEDABAD: With the term of the present vice chancellor of Gujarat Vidyapith — the world’s only university established by Mahatma Gandhi — ending in December, the race for the top job has heated up. The present vice chancellor Anamik Shah may not get a third extension as per UGC norms. Bapu was the first chancellor (kulpati) of the Vidyapith and he had held the office between 1920 and 1948. The board of trustees of the university met recently to suggest names of the high-level search panel for selecting a new VC. Names of two of the four members have already been suggested to the trustees, sources in the university have said. The trustees will meet once again to suggest two more names for the search panel. The due process for the search panel will begin in August when advertisements will be released calling for probable candidates. “We have arrived at two names for the search panel,” said the senior official at the university.Earlier in 2017, there were 14 candidates who had applied for the VC post, but the search panel that consisted of union monetary policy committee member Dr Ravindra Dholakia, former VC of Gujarat Vidyapith Sudarshan Iyengar and academician Rehana Jambuwala, had convinced Anamik Shah to continue into the second term. “Unlike other universities, most of Vidyapith’s VCs have to be selected from Gujarat, there are no candidates from outside the state. Apart from the criteria that the candidate should be following a strict Gandhian way of life, candidates should have a strong academic career as well that fits UGC’s norms,” says the senior Vidyapith official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/race-for-vidyapith-vc-hots-up/articleshow/77272180.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara dist registers 163 new cases||Kolhapur: Satara district on Friday registered 163 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of patients to 3, 824. Of these, 1,712 are currently active. Authorities of the district administration said that at least ten villages spread across the district are emerging as new Covid hotspots. These villages are recording new patients every day with most of them from the same family. Most of the recent patients were reported from these villages. Meanwhile, Karad tehsil reported over 50 new cases with half of them from Karad town and the rest from surrounding villages. Aagashivnagar and Wadgaon have seven and four new cases respectively. Patients were also identified in Shamgaon and Malkapur. While few villages in Jawli were highly affected in the past few months, Duduskarwadi has become a cause of concern for the administration. Duduskarwadi has recorded around 50 patients in the current week. Phaltan town has been recording new coronavirus patients every day. As many as 17 new cases were traced out in Phaltan town and surrounding villages since late Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-dist-registers-163-new-cases/articleshow/77290589.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Mangaluru||25% students give biology CET a miss in DK & Udupi||Kevin.Mendonsa Mangaluru: The Common Entrance Test (CET) was held across the state on Thursday with many centres taking added health-safety measures such as disinfectant tunnels. There was a marked dip in attendance on day 1 compared to last year. This year, over 1.9 lakh students registered for Karnataka CET. About 76 % of the candidates appeared for the biology paper on Thursday morning and 89% for the mathematics one in the afternoon, down from 80% and 91 %, respectively. The drop in students attending the tests were attributed to the fact that II PU/class XII results have already been announced. “Usually, CET is conducted before the results of class XII are announced. So, most students take the entrance test. However, this time results of all Boards were declared. Hence, only students who are eligible to write CET have taken it,” explained deputy CM and higher education minister C N Ashwath Narayan. Nearly 40% of II PU students did not turn up for the biology examination in Dakshina Kannada, while 35% of the students gave the test a miss in Udupi district. Four students who had Covid took the test in DK and Udupi districts. Mackline Veigas, a teacher at a tutorial centre in Dakshina Kannada, said that some of his students had been reluctant to appear for the key examination. “ The students are all afraid owing to the pandemic crisis, and have lost their enthusiasm to write the CET,” he said. A PU education department official said that the uncertainty over the schedule of the CET too might have contributed to the dip. “One must consider how prepared students may have been to appear for the examination,” he said. Many students from Kerala, primarily from neighbouring Kasaragod district, did not appear for the CET exam on the first day. Sources attributed the truancy on the part of the students from the neighbouring state to the one-week quarantine rule and the rapid antigen tests that both students and parents entering Karnataka have to undergo compulsorily. “Many may have not appeared for the examination owing to this fear,” a source said. Officials in the department of pre-university education said that as many as 425 candidates from Kerala were supposed to have arrived at the Talapady border, where they were scheduled to be picked up by buses arranged for that specific purpose. “But only 270 candidates turned up at the spot. Some of the students had applied for e-passes and proceeded to the examination centre by private vehicles, but a few of the students did not turn up for the test,” an official said. The PU education department had left nothing to chance as far as arrangements at the examination centres were concerned to ensure that there were no hazards posed to the health of students and the accompanying parents. Parents were not allowed to enter the premises of the examination centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/25-students-give-biology-cet-a-miss-in-dk-udupi/articleshow/77269358.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Madurai||Consultants see poor demand for overseas education||Madurai: Overseas educational consultants in Madurai have expressed concern at the few inquiries for admissions abroad as majority of students are preferring to wait and watch.“For the past two months, there has been almost no business for us. In this uncertain situation, no one wants to take a risk. It will take another 5-6 months for students to show renewed interest,” said Keerthi Vash, proprietor, Flyhigh Overseas, Madurai.Consultants also said that students and parents are not showing much interest even if some universities open with online classes.Many students who were supposed to join universities abroad by June and July now have been asked to wait, which has not gone well with the students .However, consultants are hopeful that things will improve and that there will be some who would come forward to adapt to the new normal of online learning.“Two students from Madurai have joined a top university in New Zealand through our services. The university offered blended learning where there will be online tutoring after which learning on campus will begin. There is also a scholarship, so 20% of tuition fees will be reduced for the online courses. They will also get 2000 NZ dollars as travel allowance later. We are confident that things will move on,” said Aladi Arun, AK Consultants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/consultants-see-poor-demand-for-overseas-education/articleshow/77272153.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
July 31, 2020||Nagpur||Smart City board to meet today||Nagpur: The board of directors of Smart City special purpose vehicle — Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Limited (NSSCDCL) — will meet at 2pm on Friday at Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) head office. Sources from NSSCDCL told TOI, “Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, who is also director in NSSCDCL, has requested chairman Pravin Pardeshi to hold the meeting. BoD is likely to discuss post facto approval to decisions taken by Mundhe as CEO,” sources said. This will be the second meeting in the month. After mayor Sandip Joshi lodged complaints alleging Mundhe was not a valid CEO, the BoD met on July 10 and reportedly gave post facto approval to decisions taken by Mundhe excluding termination of few employees. The BoD also decided to give additional charge of CEO to deputy CEO Mahesh Moroney. With Joshi up in arms against Mundhe, the BoD meeting is likely to be sensitive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/smart-city-board-to-meet-today/articleshow/77270771.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Defence seeks time to file reply on cancellation of bail of two former UT cops||Mohali: The defence counsel for former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and his co-accused, former UT inspectors Anokh Singh and Jagir Singh, has sought time to file a reply against the prosecution application seeking cancellation of the bail granted to the two UT policemen. Resumed case hearing came up in the court of additional district and sessions judge Rajnish Garg on Thursday. After hearing the pleas, the court adjourned the case till August 7. Prosecution counsel and special public prosecutor Sartej Singh Narula, supported by district attorney Sanjiv Batra and Pardeep Virk, counsel for the complainant, filed an application seeking cancellation of the bail granted to the two former inspectors, Anokh Singh and Jagir Singh in the case of alleged disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani. The case is being investigated by the special investigation team (SIT) headed by superintendent of police (SP) Harmandeep Singh Hans. Defence counsel, advocate H S Dhanoa sought time from the court to reply. He said, “We will oppose cancellation of bail as well as quashing of imposition of Sector 302 in the FIR. We will file our reply on August 7.” Meanwhile, the co-accused, Jagir Singh, Kuldeep and Harshai Sharma recently recorded their statements before the duty magistrate at Mohali under Section 164 of the CrPC. Anokh Singh was arrested by Mohali police after registration of a fresh FIR at Kharar Sadar police station on charges of fabricating evidence in the case of disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani. The other co-accused, former inspector Jagir Singh was also named in the FIR registered at Kharar. He is yet to be arrested. Anokh Singh and Jagir Singh are co-accused in the previous FIR registered at Mataur police station against former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in the alleged disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani. They received bail in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/defence-seeks-time-to-file-reply-on-cancellation-of-bail-of-two-former-ut-cops/articleshow/77272151.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
July 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana records 623 fresh cases, 4 succumb||CHANDIGARH: Haryana received 623 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the number of positive cases recorded so far in the state to 34,254. Four casualties from the disease were also reported in the last 24-hours, pushing the death toll to 417. With the latest figures, the count of active Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 6,497, with 131 patients on oxygen or ventilator support, while 27,340 have been discharged upon recovery so far. Haryana’s current doubling rate of positive cases is 24 days. In terms of overall number of positive cases in districts, Gurugram is leading with 8,989 cases, Faridabad is at number two position with 8,479 cases and Sonepat with 2,877 positive cases is at third place. Of the new cases, Faridabad received highest 184 cases, while Gurugram with 77 cases remained at number two. Among the other districts, Ambala saw 48 cases, Rohtak registered 43, Sonepat 36, Panchkula and Karnal 34 each, Rewari 32, Hisar 28, Panipat 16, Palwal 15, Mahendragarh 14, Jhajjar 12, Kaithal 10, Sirsa, Fatehabad and Nuh 7 each and Yamunanagar recorded 3 cases. Till Thursday, 6,00,893 persons in the state were tested for the virus. Around 52,442 persons are currently under surveillance. Of all the cases, 22,686 are males, 1,565 are females and three transgender. Gurugram district admn does 1 lakh-plus testsThe Haryana government on Thursday claimed that Gurugram district has done more than one lakh Covid-19 tests. Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary (health and family welfare), said in a tweet that the district has crossed 1 lakh Covid-19 tests mark, which is one of the highest in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-records-623-fresh-cases-4-succumb/articleshow/77272185.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Chennai||Dear govt, Covid curbs won’t flatten the curve||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu has chosen closure over caution. Yet another month-long extension of curbs on trade, business, industry, transport and services sectors has left everyone despondent. This extension, after 129 days of lockdown, is largely a bureaucratic exercise in which views of key stakeholders were not taken or ignored. “Keeping people indoors does stop the spread. But it cannot go on forever. Instead, we must tell people to follow the golden rules of pandemic – mask, social distancing and regular handwash. Workplaces must ensure they provide for this,” said former public health officer Dr K Kolandaiswamy. The state’s transport sector is on the verge of bankruptcy and bus owners said lack of fund inflow has been pushing businesses towards insolvency. “We have suffered a total collapse of the transport finance model,” said Mohammed Afzal, president of Tamil Nadu Omni Bus Owners Association, adding that most of the 18 lakh transport employees received only partial or no pay at all. “The economic cost of being under lockdown is only increasing, with those at the bottom having to bear the brunt of it,” said C K Ranganathan, CMD of CavinKare. The announcement that dine-in restaurants can now stay open till 7pm made little sense. As N Mahadevan, founder of Oriental Cuisines, put it: “People come out for dining only around 7pm. Asking dine-in restaurants to down shutters at 7pm is strange. We should be allowed to be open at least till 9pm or 9.30pm. The road to recovery will be long and hard for us even after the relaxations from August 1.” While states with high stakes in tourism have unveiled revival plans, Tamil Nadu has no roadmap, yet. “Tamil Nadu leads the country in terms of tourist arrivals (both domestic and foreign). Maybe the government sees something on ground which we don’t get to see, but every delay in reopening the hospitality sector will have a very serious impact on a lot of people in the state,” said Aashish Gupta, consulting CEO, FAITH. Traders were expecting longer business hours, but the government had other plans. A M Vikramaraja, president, Federation of Tamil Nadu Traders’ Association, cited the Delhi model and said markets should have been allowed to function round-the-clock. “We are disappointed with Thursday’s announcement. We had sought permission to keep shops open till 9pm in order to avoid crowding. As most offices close at 5pm, people get hardly an hour to rush and buy essentials. The extension is impractical and officials have failed to assess the ground situation.” However, Hari K Thiagarajan, chairman, CII Tamil Nadu State Council, welcomed the decision to allow 75% of workforce in industrial units, the removal of restrictions on the sale of e-commerce products, including non-essential items, besides extending the working hours of shops and restaurants. He said these would pave the way for quick revival of economy and also ensure livelihoods of people in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dear-govt-covid-curbs-wont-flatten-the-curve/articleshow/77270821.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Madurai||34 deaths recorded in southern dists, 14 in central TN||Madurai/Trichy: The southern districts recorded 1,785 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday and 34 deaths taking the total number of positive cases to 49,650 and deaths to 650 in the region. In the central region, 14 deaths were recorded and 460 fresh cases added taking the regional total to 12,871 cases and deaths to 146. Tirunelveli recorded the highest number of cases with 277 which took the district’s total to 5,002 while Tirunelveli had the highest number of deaths in a day with eight people succumbing to the disease. Theni recorded 261 new cases, Kanyakumari 248 and Virudhunagar 244, which took the district’s total to 7,502. Madurai recorded 220 new cases, taking the total to 10,838, and two deaths. As many as 202 people including 154 in the Madurai corporation limits and 48 from the villages were discharged in Madurai on Thursday. The district now has 2,384 active cases. Dindigul district reported 138 new cases and has 744 active cases now while Ramanathapuram had 46, Tenkasi 56 and Sivaganga 75 cases on Thursday. Among the 34 deaths in the southern districts, Tirunelveli accounted for eight, Tuticorin and Virudhunagar five, Theni four, Dindigul three and Ramanathapuram, Madurai and Sivaganga two each. Among the 14 deaths in the central districts included a three-year-old girl from Nagappattinam with cerebral palsy and a five-year-old girl from Ariyalur. Thanjavur witnessed six new deaths while Tiruvarur and Pudukottai districts saw three each. Seven others among the 14 were aged below 50 years and they died between July 2 and 30. Pudukottai district surpassed Trichy and Thanjavur in the number of daily cases in the region by recording 128. Pudukottai district’s total cases add up to 2,054 so far. District health officials say that about 700-800 samples are being taken for testing every day in 80-odd medical camps, which was also a reason for the spike in daily cases. Trichy had 118 fresh cases which took the total tally to 4,011 cases while Thanjavur district added 97 more cases taking its total to 2,651. A total 41 Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Karur district taking its total to 469. Nagapattinam recorded 28 new cases and Perambalur 27, taking their total count to 685 and 422 respectively. A total of 17 people tested positive in Ariyalur taking the total cases to 914. Tiruvarur district witnessed a dip with only four cases and the total cases stood at 1,665.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/34-deaths-recorded-in-southern-dists-14-in-central-tn/articleshow/77272156.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fitness business bleak, but health awareness a bright spot||AHMEDABAD: Following the guidelines of the government of Gujarat, gyms, yoga studios and fitness centres are set to resume business from August 5, under a new normal. Owners of gyms, yoga and fitness centres are ready to follow the new standard operating procedure, but the overall business prospects look bleak for various reasons including high overhead costs and the expected reduction in number of clients. Akshay Das, who runs two gyms in Ahmedabad, said, “Before the lockdown, we had some 1,500 clients and occupancy of 25%. However, we are unsure how many clients will rejoin. While some have shown willingness to rejoin with precautions; that will not be enough to sustain costs. New inquiries will take a hit and on the other hand, we will have costs piling up in terms of staff salaries and operation and maintenance of premises.” People are also quite apprehensive about joining gyms again. “Joining a gym once again will come with a risk because the same equipment is being used by different people and therefore, the chance of contracting infection, if any, will be greater. I would rather continue the home workout regime I have cultivated during the lockdown,” said Bhargav K, a professional. While gym owners are sceptical about footfall, those who run personalized fitness training centres or specialized fitness centres are hopeful of getting their clientele back in a month. Industry players claim that increased awareness about maintaining good health and better immunity is a positive sign. “In the past fortnight, inquiries from clients have been good and I am confident that 75% of the clients will return because there is greater awareness and a stronger will among people to stay fit and maintain better immunity. We have procured spray guns to disinfect the room and equipment and ensure natural air circulation while encouraging private one-on-one sessions at our Pilates studio,” said Harshika Patel, an Ahmedabad-based fitness entrepreneur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fitness-business-bleak-but-health-awareness-a-bright-spot/articleshow/77270927.cms||Niyati Parikh
July 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat Technological University’s exam registration data hacked||AHMEDABAD: The data of students who registered for the online exam to be conducted by Gujarat Technological University (GTU) has allegedly been hacked. The development comes at a time when the varsity has been chosen as the nodal agency by Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO) for the Smart India Hackathon event that will be held online this year in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The initiative is aimed to identify new and disruptive digital technology innovations for solving the challenges faced by our country. According to sources, documents and photographs of 1,200 students were leaked and displayed on a website. The cyber cell experts at GTU are investigating the matter, they added. Despite taking various precautions, including building a strong firewall, the varsity authorities were shocked to find that data of students who registered recently by participating in the mock online drill test was hacked. The data leaked include personal data as well as Aadhar number and other details of candidates. Vice-chancellor of GTU, Navin Sheth, said that exam paper and other data related to the online exams was safe. “We will soon lodge a police complaint with the cybercrime team,” said Sheth. The annual exams for colleges affiliated to GTU commenced on Thursday for which about 1,500 students had registered, said sources. The exams were held in MCQ (multiple choice questions) format for masters degree programmes including MBA, MCA and ME. The varsity will conduct final year exams for diploma and undergraduate studies from August 4. As many as 28,000 students are expected to take the final exam. The pen-and-paper exams will be held from August 17, while special exams will be conducted in September. Students who did not register for the online exams can take the written or special exams, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gtus-exam-registration-data-hacked/articleshow/77270823.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Chandigarh||31 cops among 511 new cases, 10 die in Punjab||Chandigarh: Punjab achieved another grim milestone of crossing 15,000-mark by recording 511 cases, including 10 deaths, on Thursday. Among those who tested positive were 31 police officials. The state has so far registered 15,456 cases and 370 deaths. One death added to the tally of July 29 has been removed as the test report of the deceased came out negative. Fresh cases were reported from 18 different districts, of which one contributed over 100 cases while three added more than 50 cases to the tally. Four deaths were reported in Ludhiana and three in Jalandhar while one person each infected with Covid-19 died in Amritsar, Mansa and Barnala. For the fourth consecutive day, Ludhiana contributed maximum number of cases. Of the 143 who tested positive in the district, 42 were contacts of positive cases and 37 were co-infected with influenza-like illness (ILI). Ferozepur reported 73 cases, Amritsar 69, Jalandhar 67, Faridkot 24, Mohali 18, Sangrur and Tarn Taran 15 each, Patiala and Bathinda 14 each, Fazilka 13, Barnala 12, Moga and Muktsar 10 each, Pathankot five, Hoshiarpur four, Fazilka three and Gurdaspur two. Condition of 18 patients is said to be critical and they are on ventilator support while 135 have been put on oxygen support. A total of 296 patients were discharged after they recovered, taking the overall tally of patients discharged to 10,509.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/31-cops-among-511-new-cases-10-die-in-punjab/articleshow/77272190.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Jaipur||Property survey in Jaipur after 15 years||Jaipur: Finally after 15 years, Jaipur city will restart its property survey to identify the buildings which need to pay urban development tax. Municipal Corporation Jaipur, Heritage and Greater have completed the tender process and the survey will begin within a week. Taxable property survey was last conducted in 2005 and since then the population of the city has almost doubled. At present, there are 1.32 lakh taxable properties that were identified in the 2005 survey. Lack of updated survey has been a major economic blow to the revenue of the municipal corporation. Municipal Corporation Jaipur, Greater, deputy commissioner (revenue) Naveen Bhardhwaj said, “We have hired a company to complete geo-tagging of the properties. The tender is for nine years within which it will complete the survey and assessment. Along with the survey, the company will assist in tax collection as well.” The survey will geo-tag the properties and a software which is under development will be able to update all the details of each property online. The company will not wait to complete the survey before sending notices for tax to property owners. As the survey of a particular area will get completed, simultaneously notices will be served. “The company will survey all the properties whether it is already registered or not. In 15 years, a residential complex may have been converted into a commercial building. So, that has to be updated. In Walled City area, all the havelis will be surveyed as many owners have converted them into commercial buildings like hotels or home-stays,” Bhardhwaj said. With the commercial growth in Jaipur, at present only Rs 100 crore is generated from the registered properties every year, however, this amount should have been Rs 800 crore, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/property-survey-in-jaipur-after-15-years/articleshow/77272187.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Dehradun||Covid patients in U’khand govt hosp go on ‘hunger strike’ over bad food, demand to be sent back home||Nainital: A group of 30-odd Covid-19 patients in Sushila Tiwari Hospital (STH), a government facility in Haldwani, have alleged they were being served substandard food, including fungus-ridden bread, and kept in unhygienic conditions. All patients are asymptomatic, admitted in a single ward and have refused to eat anything since Wednesday night, according to the hospital staff. On Thursday, the district administration sent a food security officer to the hospital kitchen who confirmed that sanitary conditions in the kitchen were not up to the mark. The officer, Virendra Bisht, has recommended a penalty on the hospital under Food Safety and Standards Act and sent his report to the additional district magistrate. Arun Joshi, chief medical superintendent of the hospital, told TOI the patients have been demanding to go home. “The patients have been in the hospital for seven to 10 days. They are refusing to eat food and also arguing that they have no symptoms and should be allowed to go home.” Joshi added that some of them even threatened doctors of dire consequences if they were not discharged. “We informed police that some patients are not eating and have also threatened our staff. A team from police and the administration spoke to the patients, but they did not budge.” One of the protesting patients, who also shared a video of the hospital that purportedly showed overflowing bins, said garbage was strewn across the ward they were housed in and food served was stale. “Some patients were served week-old bread with fungus on it,” he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-patients-in-ukhand-govt-hosp-go-on-hunger-strike-over-bad-food-demand-to-be-sent-back-home/articleshow/77269379.cms||Prashant Jha
July 31, 2020||Nagpur||Raut says power tariff cut will benefit 93% consumers||Nagpur: Energy minister Nitin Raut has promised to reduce power tariff soon. “This will benefit 93% consumers. A proposal in this regard will be submitted to the cabinet. After that, MSEDCL will submit a petition in Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC),” the minister told the media. A meeting between Raut and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar was held on Wednesday on this issue. Raut pointed out the problems being faced by consumers due to high summer bills amid Covid-19 lockdown. Pawar agreed to his proposal in principle. Meanwhile, BJP leaders Kirit Somaiya and Niranjan Daokhare have filed a petition in MERC seeking scrutiny of ‘inflated’ summer bills. They have also raised other demands before the Commission. A MSEDCL official told TOI Raut was yet to instruct the company to prepare a proposal. “It will take some time to draft it. The minister will have to tell us how much reduction he wants to grant to each category. Accordingly, we will calculate the loss that we will incur. The government will have to pay us an equivalent amount of subsidy. MERC will not approve the petition unless we are compensated,” he said. The monsoon session of state legislature will be held from September 7. The state government can seek money for subsidy through supplementary demands. This is not the first time that government is planning to subsidize power tariff. In January 2014, the then chief minister Prithviraj Chavhan had provided Rs 9,000 crore subsidy to MSEDCL to not increase power tariff till 2014 October assembly elections. The Devendra Fadnavis government gave Rs 1,000 crore to the discom every year for providing subsidized power to industries in Vidarbha and Marathwada. Somaiya and Daokhare in their petition have stated MSEDCL had sent inflated bills to consumers in the past two months. Despite promises by the energy minister, many consumers had been disconnected for non-payment of bills. Consumers should be given six months for payment of summer bills, they pleaded. The two have urged MERC to issue directions to MSEDCL to immediately stop disconnections. Consumers should be given free electricity up to 100 units and subsidized electricity up to 300 units, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/raut-says-power-tariff-cut-will-benefit-93-consumers/articleshow/77270819.cms||Ashish Roy
July 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Woman councillor beaten in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A woman councillor from the Chandkheda ward of the city on Wednesday filed a complaint of attack against four women who reside in the same housing society, Swaminarayan Trea Saptpadi, in Nirnay Nagar as they objected to the construction work being done by her husband. Bhavna Vaghela, 54, states in her FIR filed with Vadaj police that the four women were objecting to the construction of the third floor on a temple in the society which was done by Vaghela’s husband. Vaghela alleged that the four women first abused her and then slapped her multiple times in which her spectacles broke she was hurt. She called up police control room and then filed a complaint with Vadaj police. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-councillor-beaten/articleshow/77272189.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat’s groundnut exports grow by 57%||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat registered an impressive growth of 57% in its groundnut exports in fiscal 2020 on the back of strong demand coupled with increased production. Higher realizations due to appreciation in dollar against rupee pushed up exports in value terms to a record high. The state’s groundnut exports surged to 4.7 lakh metric tonnes (MT) in fiscal 2020 from 3 lakh MT in the previous year, shows data compiled by Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA). The exports in volume terms rose to a 3-year high.  The exports, however, in value terms reached a record high level with groundnut worth Rs 3,600 crore being shipped in fiscal 2020. As against this, the exports had been at Rs 2,098 crore in the financial year 2019. The maximum quantity of groundnut was exported to Vietnam, Indonesia, Philippines and China. In addition to abundant production, the prices of Indian groundnut were at par with the international prices, which resulted in a rise in groundnut exports, said industry players. Sharp increase in exports from Gujarat, the largest producer of the oilseed in India, pushed up overall groundnut exports from the country to 6.6 lakh MT (Rs 5,096 crore) in 2019-20 as compared to 4.9 lakh MT (Rs 3,298 crore) in the previous fiscal, the APEDA data further showed. Vegetable oil industry body, the Solvent Extractors’ Association of India (SEA) had estimated kharif groundnut production of 32 lakh MT on total acreage of nearly 16 lakh hectares last year. The yield also increased to 2,070kg per hectare on favourable weather conditions. Saurashtra Oil Mills Association (SOMA), on the other hand, had estimated 30 lakh MT. Better returns in groundnut as compared to other cash crops last year prompted many farmers to take up groundnut cultivation this kharif season with area under groundnut cultivation crossing 20 lakh hectares as on July 27. The acreage is heading towards an all-time high this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarats-groundnut-exports-grow-by-57/articleshow/77272215.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab to decide on Unlock 3.0 after ground assessment||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government has sought the views of the deputy commissioners (DCs) on opening of gyms. A final decision on this and other relaxations in Unlock 3.0 will be taken after receiving their inputs. At a videoconference review meeting on Thursday with the DCs and health officials on Covid-19 containment and management arrangements, chief minister Amarinder Singh said while the Centre had announced certain relaxations, including permission for opening of gyms, as per the Unlock 3.0 guidelines, he would decide on the same after an assessment of the ground situation. He asked the DCs to think through and submit their views to chief secretary Vini Mahajan, following which a final decision would be taken by the government after due deliberations. Capt Amarinder said while there was a lot of demand from youngsters for opening of both gyms, the modalities would have to be thought through and all options to be explored before the decision can be taken. Taking serious note of reports of violation of social distancing and other Covid protocols by some shopkeepers, he directed the DCs to order shut down of shops for three days in the case of the first offence and for a higher number of days on subsequent violations. He asked the DCs to strictly enforce all safety protocols and norms, including wearing of masks and social distancing, to check the spread of the pandemic. Punjab Police chief DGP Dinkar Gupta told the meeting that from March 23 to July 29, a total of 14,384 FIRs had been registered and 19,850 persons arrested for various violations. As many as 5,50,150 persons had been fined for violation of the Covid-19 guidelines. The DCs of some of the worst affected districts, namely Amritsar, Jalandhar, Patiala and Mohali, briefed the meeting on the situation in their respective regions and the measures being taken to monitor, track, test and treat people. Jalandhar SSP said given the social stigma attached to Covid-19, the district police had made it mandatory for all chemists to report those buying medicines for treatment of fever and flu. Capt Amarinder suggested appointment of a dedicated ‘Covid Prevention Monitor’ to ensure compliance at every private institution where a number of people were expected to come. He also asked the DCs to take steps for distribution of masks free of cost to the needy, and also make sanitisers and mask vending machines available at public places. He urged the newly appointed ‘Covid patient tracking officers’, to engage regularly with all tertiary care facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/pb-to-decide-on-unlock-3-0-after-ground-assessment-deliberations/articleshow/77276947.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to decide on Unlock 3.0 after ground assessment||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government has sought the views of the deputy commissioners (DCs) on opening of gyms. A final decision on this and other relaxations in Unlock 3.0 will be taken after receiving their inputs. At a videoconference review meeting on Thursday with the DCs and health officials on Covid-19 containment and management arrangements, chief minister Amarinder Singh said while the Centre had announced certain relaxations, including permission for opening of gyms, as per the Unlock 3.0 guidelines, he would decide on the same after an assessment of the ground situation. He asked the DCs to think through and submit their views to chief secretary Vini Mahajan, following which a final decision would be taken by the government after due deliberations. Capt Amarinder said while there was a lot of demand from youngsters for opening of both gyms, the modalities would have to be thought through and all options to be explored before the decision can be taken. Taking serious note of reports of violation of social distancing and other Covid protocols by some shopkeepers, he directed the DCs to order shut down of shops for three days in the case of the first offence and for a higher number of days on subsequent violations. He asked the DCs to strictly enforce all safety protocols and norms, including wearing of masks and social distancing, to check the spread of the pandemic. Punjab Police chief DGP Dinkar Gupta told the meeting that from March 23 to July 29, a total of 14,384 FIRs had been registered and 19,850 persons arrested for various violations. As many as 5,50,150 persons had been fined for violation of the Covid-19 guidelines. The DCs of some of the worst affected districts, namely Amritsar, Jalandhar, Patiala and Mohali, briefed the meeting on the situation in their respective regions and the measures being taken to monitor, track, test and treat people. Jalandhar SSP said given the social stigma attached to Covid-19, the district police had made it mandatory for all chemists to report those buying medicines for treatment of fever and flu. Capt Amarinder suggested appointment of a dedicated ‘Covid Prevention Monitor’ to ensure compliance at every private institution where a number of people were expected to come. He also asked the DCs to take steps for distribution of masks free of cost to the needy, and also make sanitisers and mask vending machines available at public places. He urged the newly appointed ‘Covid patient tracking officers’, to engage regularly with all tertiary care facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-to-decide-on-unlock-3-0-after-ground-assessment-deliberations/articleshow/77272181.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan ACB team to go to Delhi to serve notices to two MLAs||JAIPUR: An ACB team will leave for Manesar and Delhi on Friday to give notices to MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma and former tourism minister Vishwendra Singh. The MLAs had been sent notices previously on July 20 and July 24 but both have failed to respond. The two notices were sent by ACB following the FIR lodged by Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi claiming that the accused were in cahoots with others to topple the state government. Dinesh M N (ADG, ACB) said, “In the first summons, they were given a time of three days to record their statements but when they did not do so, we again sent the notices to them giving them seven days to respond.” The deadline for the second notice ends on Friday. The ACB team will be headed by a DSP rank officer. On being asked if the team will stay put, the official added, “At present, the duration of the team’s stay at these locations is undecided.” Joshi had provided two audio recordings to the agency in which the politicians were apparently heard talking about horse-trading of MLAs. In the complaint filed on Friday, Joshi had mentioned the names of three individuals who were heard in the audio clips — Bhanwarlal Sharma, Sanjay Jain and Gajendra Singh Shekhawat — though it does not specify if it was the voice of the Union minister. Out of the two clips, no names were taken in one of them though sources claimed that the conversation was between the former tourism minister and Shekhawat. After this, the ACB registered an FIR under the Prevention of Corruption Act. On June 10, the ACB had also received a complaint from Joshi in connection with perceived horse-trading of MLAs following which they started a confidential investigation into the matter. Meanwhile SOG’s team is also trying to locate the MLAs at the same locations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/acb-team-to-go-to-delhi-to-serve-notices-to-two-mlas/articleshow/77272212.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
July 31, 2020||Nagpur||Cops must report symptoms at earliest: CP||Nagpur: Police officers have been asked to report any Covid-related symptoms at the earliest to their seniors, city police chief BK Upadhyay said on Thursday. “The cops must ensure they report symptoms early and start quick treatment to avoid fatalities,” he said. As many as 34 city cops have tested positive for Covid-19 so far. State inspector-general Krishna Prakash said adequate measures are being taken, including the distribution of immunity booster dosages. “We have urged the unit commanders to give a loan of Rs1 lakh from the welfare funds to the personnel, for them and their family members to meet Covid-related expenses. This is in addition to the cashless facilities we are offering for undergoing treatment,” he said. Krishna Prakash added that yoga pranayams, breathing exercises and suryanamaskars are also being advised as immunity boosting measures for the cops. "We have roped in a leading yoga organization to teach our personnel. Their training session video clips would be circulated across the state," he said. The statewide Covid death toll of cops has touched the century mark in Maharashtra, while 1,912 were under treatment in different facilities across the state. Another 86 were injured in mob violence during lockdown enforcement. More than 9,000 cops have tested positive in the state so far. Despite the setback, state police have managed to collect Rs17.42 crores fine from the lockdown violators. Around 2.15 lakhs offences were registered against the violators in which more than 32,300 were arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-must-report-symptoms-at-earliest-cp/articleshow/77270849.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 31, 2020||Madurai||MNM demands replacement of monitoring officer in Virudhunagar||Madurai: Makkal Needhi Maiyam has alleged that the Covid-19 monitoring officer appointed for Virudhunagar district has been non-functional and demanded that she be replaced. With Virudhunagar having reported 7,502 cases so far and over 200 new cases being reported daily, the party has pinned the blame on the officer for letting the health situation to worsen.The party has put out posters in many parts of the district demanding that the Covid monitoring officer, Dr S Mathumathi, be replaced, saying that she did monitor the situation when the cases were on the rise in the district.District secretary for MNM, J Kalidoss, said that he has sent a petition to the chief minister’s cell demanding that the monitoring officer be changed. ``She conducted a review meeting on June 27, after which we have not heard of her. The purpose of having a monitoring officer to control the spread of the disease is defeated if the officer is not on the ground at this time, when there is an alarming rise in the number of cases,’’ he said. He said that more tests should be conducted throughout the district with more mobile screening camps being organized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mnm-demands-replacement-of-monitoring-officer-in-virudhunagar/articleshow/77272178.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Home minister reviews Bakrid bandobust||Hyderabad: Telangana home minister Mohammad Mahmood Ali conducted a review on Bakrid festival bandobust arrangements with three police commissioners of the city on Thursday. Commissioners Anjani Kumar, Mahesh Bhagwat and VC Sajjanar attended the meeting and the home minister told them that police should interfere if there is an attempt by anyone to slaughter cows. “Intercept the vehicles transporting livestock only if there are cows,” the home minister said. The minister also appealed to people to maintain physical distance while performing prayers. Meanwhile, DGP office issued a press release warning people to not clandestinely transport camels from Rajasthan to city and resort to slaughtering the animal as it is illegal. Police said they will keep a watch on illegal slaughterhouses and book cases against law violators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/home-minister-reviews-bakrid-bandobust/articleshow/77272196.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab to decide on Unlock 3.0 after ground assessment||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government has sought the views of the deputy commissioners (DCs) on opening of gyms. A final decision on this and other relaxations in Unlock 3.0 will be taken after receiving their inputs. At a videoconference review meeting on Thursday with the DCs and health officials on Covid-19 containment and management arrangements, chief minister Amarinder Singh said while the Centre had announced certain relaxations, including permission for opening of gyms, as per the Unlock 3.0 guidelines, he would decide on the same after an assessment of the ground situation. He asked the DCs to think through and submit their views to chief secretary Vini Mahajan, following which a final decision would be taken by the government after due deliberations. Capt Amarinder said while there was a lot of demand from youngsters for opening of both gyms, the modalities would have to be thought through and all options to be explored before the decision can be taken. Taking serious note of reports of violation of social distancing and other Covid protocols by some shopkeepers, he directed the DCs to order shut down of shops for three days in the case of the first offence and for a higher number of days on subsequent violations. He asked the DCs to strictly enforce all safety protocols and norms, including wearing of masks and social distancing, to check the spread of the pandemic. Punjab Police chief DGP Dinkar Gupta told the meeting that from March 23 to July 29, a total of 14,384 FIRs had been registered and 19,850 persons arrested for various violations. As many as 5,50,150 persons had been fined for violation of the Covid-19 guidelines. The DCs of some of the worst affected districts, namely Amritsar, Jalandhar, Patiala and Mohali, briefed the meeting on the situation in their respective regions and the measures being taken to monitor, track, test and treat people. Jalandhar SSP said given the social stigma attached to Covid-19, the district police had made it mandatory for all chemists to report those buying medicines for treatment of fever and flu. Capt Amarinder suggested appointment of a dedicated ‘Covid Prevention Monitor’ to ensure compliance at every private institution where a number of people were expected to come. He also asked the DCs to take steps for distribution of masks free of cost to the needy, and also make sanitisers and mask vending machines available at public places. He urged the newly appointed ‘Covid patient tracking officers’, to engage regularly with all tertiary care facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pb-to-decide-on-unlock-3-0-after-ground-assessment-deliberations/articleshow/77276945.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Hardik Shah appointed personal secretary to PM||GANDHINAGAR: Hardik Shah, a 2010-batch Gujarat cadre IAS officer, has been elevated to the post of private secretary to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Shah was appointed as deputy secretary in the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) in August 2019. Shah is probably the youngest IAS officer and the first promotee IAS officer to be appointed on this key post. Prior to Shah, another Gujarat cadre IAS officer, Rajeev Topno served as private secretary to the PM. Shah, who started his career as a junior engineer in the Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB), was also the youngest member secretary of the GPCB, and he is credited with making GPCB’s operations modern and transparent. “It is a big surprise for me. I am obliged to the PM for putting trust in my abilities. I will give my best,’’ said Shah when contacted for his comment. Shah was a university topper in BTech, MTech and law and was selected for IAS in 2010. He was hand-picked by PM Modi as private secretary to the Union minister of environment, forest and climate change and information and broadcasting in 2017. In August 2019, Shah was appointed as deputy secretary in the PMO. He contributed to the PM’s national plan to control the plastic menace and environment conservation. He has played a vital role in bringing key policy changes nationally in controlling pollution and promoting environment protection in states. Shah completed his PhD in environment engineering from the prestigious Harvard Kennedy School. He has worked with Nobel laureates Abhijt Banerjee, Esther Duflo and professor Michael Greenstone and expert of green best practices, professor John Briscoe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hardik-shah-appointed-personal-secretary-to-pm/articleshow/77270846.cms||Kapil Dave
July 31, 2020||Madurai||Pharmacy owner held for selling drug without prescription||Madurai: A 55-year-old medical shop owner in Madurai was arrested for selling a sedative drug without prescription. The accused has sold the drug, used for treating various health issues, including insomnia at a higher price to youths, who used it to get high.A police team, which came to know about the offence, arrested the accused on Wednesday. The accused was identified as A Rajamohammed, who was running his store in Tahsildar Nagar in Vandiyur Main Road. As many as 273 tablets were seized from the shop.According to police, the accused sold the drug out of greediness to earn more money, although he was well informed of the fact that it can attract criminal case. He was taken to the Anna Nagar police station, where a case was registered under sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. He was later released on bail.A police officer said the drug can cause dizziness, sedation, drowsiness, unsteadiness and impaired coordination. A check would be conducted in medical shops randomly to make sure drugs are not sold without prescriptions, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pharmacy-owner-held-for-selling-drug-without-prescription/articleshow/77272161.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Madurai||MMC lab conducts over 4k tests in a day||Madurai: The virology lab at the Madurai Medical College has conducted 4,800 Covid tests in a single day on July 28, which is a record, said dean of the Government Rajaji Hospital(GRH), Dr J Sangumani. Speaking to reporters on Thursday, he said they had done 1,39,311 tests till date. . From August 1, people would be able to download the certificate of their test results from the messages received on their phones, he said. Dr Sangumani, and Dr Natarajan, in charge of Covid-19 care in GRH, clarified that they were very upset over the video circulating on social media, which was said to be a phone call made by Dr R M R Santhilal from Rajapalayam, two days before he died at the GRH on July 27. In the voice message, he was heard saying that he feared that he would die in two days on July 25. Dr Natarajan said that Dr Santhilal had been brought to the GRH with severe breathing problems and that they had administered expensive drugs and also oxygen and that it was very unfortunate that they had lost him. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mmc-lab-conducts-over-4k-tests-in-a-day/articleshow/77272183.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Plasma therapy will be provided free of cost in Punjab: Amarinder Singh||CHANDIGARH: The state government will provide plasma free of cost by to all those in need, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh said on Thursday. He directed the health department to ensure that Covid patients are not charged for plasma therapy and that nobody is allowed to buy or sell plasma. Capt Amarinder, who was holding a Covid management review meeting via video conference, urged deputy commissioners and health department officials to motivate recoverd Covid patients to donate plasma. Currently, there are around 10,000 recovered Covid patients in the state, he said, adding that his government’s priority was to save each and every life in Punjab. Amarinder asked the health department to expedite setting up of two new Plasma Banks in Amritsar and Fardikot, to supplement the one already operational in Patiala. Minister O P Soni informed him that approvals for the new banks had already been received and tenders were being floated for procurement of equipment. He also sought a proposal for earmarking 10 beds in all the district hospitals for treatment and care of mild/minor cases of infection. Punjab chief secretary Vini Mahajan suggested that all field officers, including DCs and SSPs, should remain at their headquarter towns even at night for the next two months, as this was a critical period for Punjab, with projected spike during this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/plasma-therapy-will-be-provided-free-of-cost-capt/articleshow/77272209.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Amritsar||Plasma therapy will be provided free of cost in Punjab: Amarinder Singh||CHANDIGARH: The state government will provide plasma free of cost by to all those in need, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh said on Thursday. He directed the health department to ensure that Covid patients are not charged for plasma therapy and that nobody is allowed to buy or sell plasma. Capt Amarinder, who was holding a Covid management review meeting via video conference, urged deputy commissioners and health department officials to motivate recoverd Covid patients to donate plasma. Currently, there are around 10,000 recovered Covid patients in the state, he said, adding that his government’s priority was to save each and every life in Punjab. Amarinder asked the health department to expedite setting up of two new Plasma Banks in Amritsar and Fardikot, to supplement the one already operational in Patiala. Minister O P Soni informed him that approvals for the new banks had already been received and tenders were being floated for procurement of equipment. He also sought a proposal for earmarking 10 beds in all the district hospitals for treatment and care of mild/minor cases of infection. Punjab chief secretary Vini Mahajan suggested that all field officers, including DCs and SSPs, should remain at their headquarter towns even at night for the next two months, as this was a critical period for Punjab, with projected spike during this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/plasma-therapy-will-be-provided-free-of-cost-capt/articleshow/77274052.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Ludhiana||Plasma therapy will be provided free of cost in Punjab: Amarinder Singh||CHANDIGARH: The state government will provide plasma free of cost by to all those in need, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh said on Thursday. He directed the health department to ensure that Covid patients are not charged for plasma therapy and that nobody is allowed to buy or sell plasma. Capt Amarinder, who was holding a Covid management review meeting via video conference, urged deputy commissioners and health department officials to motivate recoverd Covid patients to donate plasma. Currently, there are around 10,000 recovered Covid patients in the state, he said, adding that his government’s priority was to save each and every life in Punjab. Amarinder asked the health department to expedite setting up of two new Plasma Banks in Amritsar and Fardikot, to supplement the one already operational in Patiala. Minister O P Soni informed him that approvals for the new banks had already been received and tenders were being floated for procurement of equipment. He also sought a proposal for earmarking 10 beds in all the district hospitals for treatment and care of mild/minor cases of infection. Punjab chief secretary Vini Mahajan suggested that all field officers, including DCs and SSPs, should remain at their headquarter towns even at night for the next two months, as this was a critical period for Punjab, with projected spike during this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/plasma-therapy-will-be-provided-free-of-cost-capt/articleshow/77274050.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Delhi||Covid results in 30 seconds or less: Israelis test 4 new techs at RML||NEW DELHI: Israeli ambassador Ron Malka on Friday visited Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, where trials are being conducted on four different technologies, including a breath analyser and a voice test, that have the potential to detect Covid-19 in about 30 seconds. According to a statement issued by the Israel embassy, Malka went there to witness the trials being conducted since the past three days for rapid Covid-19 testing. The rapid testing is being jointly developed by Directorate of Defense Research and Development of the Israeli Ministry of Defense, India’s Defence Research and Development Organisation, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research and the principal scientific adviser, India and is being coordinated by the foreign affairs ministries of Israel and India. Malka was accompanied by professor K VijayRaghavan, the principal scientific adviser to the Prime Minister. The tests include a voice test that uses artificial intelligence to identify changes in a patient’s voice and a breath analyser test that requires a person to blow into a tube to detect novel coronavirus using terra-hertz waves, the statement added. There is also isothermal testing that enables identification of the virus in a saliva sample and a test using poly-amino acids that isolates proteins related to Covid-19. “These trials are being conducted on a large sample of patients in India and if the results validate the effectiveness of the tests, they will be mass-manufactured in India and marketed to the world by Israel and India jointly,” the embassy stated. Speaking during his visit, Malka said, “If even one of these tests is successful in detecting the virus in as less as half a minute, it will be the biggest breakthrough in Covid-19 identification that the world has been waiting for.” He added, “By combining advanced Israeli and Indian technologies and India’s manufacturing prowess, we can find a way to resume our lives and exist alongside the virus till a vaccine is developed.” VijayRaghavan said the translation of cutting-edge basic science and technology to society was happening in this collaboration. “What was yesterday considered esoteric research is being tested for implementation. Such robust tests are the touchstone of science,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-results-in-30-seconds-or-less-israelis-test-4-new-techs-at-rml/articleshow/77293492.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: RTE lottery drawn, 1,91,158 candidates apply||JAIPUR: Online lottery under the Right to Free and Compulsory Child Education Act (RTE) was taken out on Thursday. School education minister Govind Singh Dotasra took out the online lottery for determining priority order for admissions in free seats for the academic session 2020-21 in 36,281, non-government schools eligible in these criteria. The minister informed that online applications were received for 31,480 schools for admissions on free seats and not a single application has been received for 4,801 schools. For admission on free seats, 1,91,158 candidates from across the state sent 8,60,512 applications online. Under the guidelines of the Right to Education Act, an applicant can apply for a maximum of 15 schools. Out of the 1,91,158 applicants for lottery, 1,02,847 were boys and 88, 300 were girls. There were 11 third gender students amongst the applicants. Dotasra informed that for the free seats, 34,007 applicants from general category sent 2,04,062 applications; 89,790 applicants from OBC sent 3,99,843 applications; 6,088 applicants from SBC sent 13,421applications; 36,636 SC candidates sent 1,46,743 applications; while 9,892 from ST sent 29,404 applications. Commissioner of Rajasthan Primary Education Council, B L Meena said that the parents can view the priority list issued by the lottery by clicking on ‘priority list’ on the home page of the private schools’ websites. He informed that parents can see their girl child’s preference number in all the applied schools simultaneously by applying their ID number and mobile number. After fixing of the order by online lottery, all the parents who desire for admission have to submit the attached and reporting form of the application in the concerned school by 07.08.2020. After this, the admission work will start. At the time of admission, instructions have been given by the schools to examine the documents related to the eligibility of children in-depth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rte-lottery-drawn-191158-candidates-apply/articleshow/77272205.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Chennai||Group lunches cause workplace clusters, experts tell Tamil Nadu govt||CHENNAI: Holding luncheons in groups at cafeterias, or gathering for small chats during tea time violating social distancing norms have been identified as key reasons for clusters of Covid-19 cases among industries and commercial establishments, epidemiologists from the National Institute of Epidemiology told the state government on Thursday during the medical expert committee meeting at the state secretariat. Members of the committee including epidemiologists, virologists, institution heads and public health experts met chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami for about 90 minutes to discuss the way forward in the pandemic. An analysis of a series of clusters in districts showed violation of norms while travelling together in company-organised vehicles and staying in dormitories have also led to a surge in infections, NIE deputy director Dr Prabhdeep Kaur told the government. The team had analysed a cluster of cases in a matchbox factory Srivilliputhur in Virudhunagar besides others at a jewellery store in Trichy and a retail hypermarket in Poonamallee where there were more than 50 people testing positive. “Tamil Nadu has efficiently ramped up testing across all districts. It has the highest number of tests and uses the standard RTPCR test. But turnaround time for test results has now gone up,” she said. The average turnaround time for test results is between 48 hours in the city to up to five days in the districts. When test results are delayed, the time taken for isolation and treatment is also delayed. This increases spread and leads to complications including deaths, doctors said. WHO chief scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan, who attended the meeting, told the government that the state should offer other services for infectious and non-infectious diseases, such as TB diagnosis, and vaccination for children and pregnant women. She appreciated the efforts taken by the health department to increase authorised testing labs across all districts. The state has 119 testing labs, including 58 government labs, that offer tests free of cost. All 37 districts, barring Ranipet, have at least one government lab. Health secretary J Radhakrishnan told experts that the doubling period – time it takes for the infections to double — has gone up to 22 days compared to 16 days on July 4. The doubling time for deaths has also gone up from around 17 days to 27 days, he said. Other senior doctors insisted on the need for districts to increase fever surveillance similar to the one organised by Greater Chennai Corporation so that they can track and isolate cases early. Senior government doctors said the state has been able to show a recovery rate close to 72%, while keeping mortality rate at around 1.6%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/group-lunches-cause-workplace-clusters-experts-tell-tn-govt/articleshow/77270848.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Review of containment zones on, total number set to come down||NEW DELHI: The number of containment zones are set to reduce as district authorities have started the process of reassessing and scaling them down following the Union health ministry’s order relaxing the norms. With different states, including Delhi, asking the Centre to relax containment zone norms to ease problems being faced by residents, the Union health ministry suggested that the red zones could be denotified in 14 days after the discharge of the last confirmed case instead of 28 days as specified earlier. “We have started the scaling down process of containment zones keeping in mind the new norms. This will definitely bring down the number of red zones in many areas where the last discharged case was more than 14 days ago,” a senior official said. The official added, “The process of notification, formation of a containment zone and scaling it down will now happen in a shorter time. When we scale down a containment zone, we remove the perimeter restrictions, but survey and screening in the area continues aggressively. The change is now that the decontainment will happen after 14 days instead of 28 days.” There were 692 containment zones on Friday. While this number is slated to come down, officials said the area of many containment zones might also be reduced. Transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Friday inspected the Raj Nagar containment zone near Palam, which is one of the largest sealed areas in the city. “As per directions of chief minister @ArvindKejriwal, a review of all containment zones in the city is being carried out. As part of the exercise, I inspected the Raj Nagar containment zone today. With the area being made a containment zone, 40,000 people have been affected. We are trying to rationalise this zone,” he tweeted. The Union health ministry’s order came within a week of Delhi health minister Satyender Jain urging the Centre to relax the norms and bring down the minimum cooling off period from 28 days to 15 days. At many locations like Jahangirpuri and GTB Enclave, containment zones have been made for three months at a stretch. The order given by the Centre has reduced the inconvenience being faced by residents by asking local authorities to scale down surveillance if no lab confirms any Covid-19 case from the containment zone for at least 14 days. It, however, added that even after denotification, continued surveillance for symptomatic patients and their rigorous testing in the denotified containment or buffer zone would go on. “Residents of areas that remain containment zones for prolonged periods become restless and some try to violate norms. This is why many containment zones were re-demarcated in many districts,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/review-of-containment-zones-on-total-number-set-to-come-down/articleshow/77293501.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Pb facilities keeping up in most districts for Covid patients||Chandigarh: Despite a surge in the Covid-19 cases, putting pressure on level II — beds with oxygen supply — and level III —facilities equipped with intensive care units, ventilators and beds with oxygen support — Punjab has still room to accommodate more in the facilities made operational in Phase I for now. However, there are few districts where the Covid-19 facilities have been pushed to their limits, calling for immediate upgradation. For Phase I, the government had made arrangements for 5,470 beds in level II, and 567 in level III. Even as the state is comfortably placed at the moment, health experts called for further ramping up the capacity to meet any exigency in case the situation further deteriorates in future. Punjab has recorded 8,710 new cases of the coronavirus in the last 28 days, accounting for 60.57% of the total 14,379 cases reported since the first case reported on March 1. Of 336 Covid-19 died, 186 were reported in the ongoing month. Fortunately for Punjab, of 4,372 active cases, 1,114 asymptomatic patients or with mild symptoms are in home isolation. The rise in number of patients have started putting a strain on level III facilities with bed occupancy going over 28% as on July 29, while the occupancy rate of Level II facilities stood at over 21%. As per the data of the health department, only five beds in level II facilities were vacant in Barnala as on July 29, while the occupancy rate in Gurdaspur was at about 40% and over 47% in Mohali. Other districts have substantial numbers of vacant beds as of now. As many as 713 beds in Jalandhar, 648 in Patiala, 451 in Ludhiana, 295 in Tarn Taran, 232 in Amritsar and 224 in Faridkot are available in level II facilities. In Ludhiana, the worst affected district, there were only six beds vacant in level III facilities. Baring Ludhiana, other districts still have room to accommodate more patients. In Amritsar and Patiala, 83 beds each are vacant, while Mohali has capacity of admitting 77 more patients in critical condition. In Jalandhar, 71 level III beds are available as of July 19. Chandigarh-based Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID)’s health economist Aswini Kumar Nanda said Punjab had done reasonably well in ramping up its bed capacity. However, as the number of cases are rising rapidly, the government has to further increase the capacity accordingly. Besides improving infrastructure, Nanda asserted that efforts should be made to improve the quality of services provided in government facilities. Punjab health department spokesperson for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said the government had identified another 2,500 beds of level II and 1,000 of level III for Phase II, which would be made operational, if needed. “At present, we have sufficient number of beds to cater to projected rise in number of cases,” said Dr Bhaskar. LEVEL | BED CAPACITY | OCCUPIED | AVAILABLE II | 5,956 | 1,279 | 4,677 III | 567 | 160 | 407 AS ON JULY 29||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-facilities-keeping-up-in-most-districts-for-covid-patients/articleshow/77272192.cms||Vinod Kumar
July 31, 2020||Madurai||Six arrested for trying to organise jallikattu||Madurai: Six people were arrested on charges of trying to conduct jallikattu in an agricultural land in Vaavidamaruthur village near Alanganallur on Wednesday. A police team rushed to the spot and seized the vehicle, which carried four jallikattu bulls. A case was registered against 10 people and six of them identified as Saravanakumar, Muthaiah, Muthu, Muthukumar, Vellaiyan, Ranjith and Muthumari from Vaavidaimaruthur village were arrested. A police officer said the event was planned as a low-key one, but it was prevented since people might gather in large numbers. Although there was no chance of people from other villages gathering there, it might create an alarm even if a crowd of 20 to 30 had gathered. One has to take permission from various agencies including police to conduct a jallikattu event. However, the accused claimed that it was more of a practice session. With the lockdown is in place no recreation activity is allowed and there should not be gathering of five or more people, the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/six-arrested-for-trying-to-organise-jallikattu/articleshow/77272193.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Pvt hosps to treat referred patients||Chandigarh: To cope up with pressure of rising cases of Covid-19, Punjab government directed all private health facilities to provide tertiary care — high dependency unit (HDU) and intensive care unit (ICU) — to patients referred by the health department. The directions have been issued under the Epidemic Disease Act 1897 (COVID-19 Regulation 2020). Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu in wake of rising cases of coronavirus across the state, the state government has taken this decision. He said that the health services would be extended on the billing system for referred Covidd-19 patients. The cost of treatment will be reimbursed as per CGHS Chandigarh rates. Sidhu divulged that the cost of drug and consumables will be reimbursed as per the actual cost. After the discharge of the patient, the hospital will send the authorised referral, final bill, discharge summary, consumables/medicines bills after verification by Civil Surgeon of the district to Punjab Health Systems Corporation. In case there are no prescribed rates for any test/ procedure in centre government health scheme, Chandigarh then PGIMER Chandigarh/ AIIMS New Delhi rates, whichever is less, will be applicable . Treatment would be provided to such patients on a cashless basis adding that he divulged for PPE kits Rs 2000 per patient per day for the first two patients and then Rs 1000 per patient per day for every additional patient to be paid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pvt-hosps-to-treat-referred-patients/articleshow/77272214.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Nagpur||‘Kashi, Mathura temples also on Hindutva agenda’||Nagpur: Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) central secretary Milind Parande on Thursday said those who don’t wish good for Lord Rama will not be well either. Addressing a press conference in Nagpur, Parande said those who talk against the Ram temple in Ayodhya will not have any political future in the country anymore. Restoration of Hindu shrines in other places like Kashi and Mathura too remains on the agenda of Hindutva organizations, and they will be taking it up vehemently, he said. Veteran BJP leader Murli Manohar Joshi, in November 2019, had responded to a TOI query, asking whether the Mathura and Kashi issue was being raised at all. On whether building the Ram temple may hurt sentiments of any other community, Parande said, “Babar, who broke the temple to build the mosque, was a foreign invader and had no roots in India. Muslims of the country may not identify themselves with Babar. If some do, we may have to think about them. Maybe they should get the same treatment that Babar deserved,” he told TOI. The senior functionary of the Hindutva organization also lashed out at chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who had suggested that in times of Covid-19, an online ground-breaking ceremony should be held at Ayodhya. “He should first set his own house in order,” Parande said in a direct attack to Thackeray. Commenting on NCP leader Sharad Pawar, the VHP central secretary said some had made opposing the Ram Temple a political mainstay. “There are certain elements like the communists who don’t want the temple. However, they may not last long politically,” he said. “The marauders who broke the Somnath temple of Gujarat were foreigners too, and there should be no sympathy for them. Mahatma Gandhi had also expressed views along these lines in his journal Harijan,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kashi-mathura-temples-also-on-hindutva-agenda/articleshow/77270873.cms||Shishir Arya
July 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ashish Bhatia inches closer to becoming next DGP of Gujarat||GANDHINAGAR: Ahmedabad city police commissioner Ashish Bhatia inched closer to becoming the next state police chief. Chief minister Vijay Rupani has reportedly directed chief secretary Anil Mukim to name Bhatia as the state government’s choice before the UPSC committee on Friday in New Delhi. The chief secretary will meet officials of the UPSC and ministry of home affairs in Delhi to finalize the next Director General of Police (DGP), as the term of incumbent Shivanand Jha ends on July 31. Key government sources said that chief minister Vijay Rupani had detailed consultations with minister of state for home Pradipsinh Jadeja, CS Anil Mukim, and K Kailashnathan, chief principal secretary to the CM. “After consultations with UPSC and MHA officials, Bhatia’s name will be sent for the PM’s nod. If the PM does not suggest another name, Bhatia’s name will be finalized by the state government,” sources said. Top sources added that Mukim and Jha will return back to Gandhinagar by afternoon on Friday and Jha will hand over charge to the next DGP after 4pm. The state government had proposed names of six officers as the successor of the DGP. Panel of six officials included Rakesh Asthana, director general Bureau of Civil Aviation, New Delhi, A K Singh, director general, National Security Guard (NSG), New Delhi, Ashish Bhatia, police commissioner, Ahmedabad, T S Bisht, director general civil defence & home guards, Keshav Kumar, special director, Anti-Corruption Bureau and Vinod Mall, DGP, police reforms. Bhatia has served at various crucial posts in the Gujarat police over the past 20 years. He was one of the three IPS officers who were part of the special investigative team (SIT) appointed by the Supreme Court to probe nine riot cases in Gujarat in 2002.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bhatia-inches-closer-to-becoming-next-dgp-of-gujarat/articleshow/77270862.cms||Kapil Dave
July 31, 2020||Madurai||MSMEs oppose extension of lockdown||Madurai: Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (MADITSSIA) has strongly opposed the extension of the lockdown in the state till August 31 without further relaxation by the state government. “Extension of lockdown without any relaxation is totally against the unlock 3.0 guidelines of the central government,” said its president B Muruganantham. The economy is totally shattered and the revenue of Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector is hit very hard. MSMEs are already in doldrums and the extension in the current model without relaxing public transport and the e-pass system will be detrimental to the sector. They noted that banning public transport will be a major setback to the common man and for the working class people. People who have access to private transport are easily commuting within the city whereas poor daily wage workers are finding it difficult to commute between work place and home. “We appeal to the chief minister to review the lockdown order, relax public transport and remove the e-pass system,” Muruganantham said and termed e-pass a burden to the official machinery and encourages favouritism and red-tapism. The association also pointed out that e-pass is a mockery since many village roads do not have any check-posts where travelling to neighbouring districts is still unchecked. “Industries are ready to obey all the other conditions stipulated in the extended lockdown. We hope that out appeal will be favourably considered by the CM,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/msmes-oppose-extension-of-lockdown/articleshow/77272186.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Patna||Flood-hit districts go up to 14 in North Bihar, 40 lakh affected||PATNA: The Central Water Commission issued a ‘red bulletin’ on Thursday warning of extreme flood situation in rivers Burhi Gandak in Muzaffarpur and Adhwara in Darbhanga even as the number of flood-hit districts went up to 14 in north Bihar. Around 40 lakh people have been affected so far. The red bulletin stated that Burhi Gandak at Sakra in Muzaffarpur was flowing above its danger mark (50.6m) by nearly 0.8m, which is 0.7m above its previous highest flood level of 50.9m recorded on August 25, 2017. The water resources department (WRD) flood bulletin issued on Thursday evening also stated that Burhi Gandak was flowing above the danger mark at all flood gauges in Muzaffarpur, Samastipur and Khagaria districts. At Sikandarpur flood gauge in Muzaffarpur, the swollen Burhi Gandak was flowing 1.38m above the corresponding danger level. The WRD bulletin also noted that villagers of Bairiya-Koral at Chakiya block in East Champaran district damaged a retired bund inside the right embankment of Burhi Gandak. The bulletin further stated that the Adhwara at Bishunpur in Darbhanga district continued to flow in extreme flood situation at 7am on Thursday. It was flowing at a level of 48.7m with steady trend, which was 1.3m above its danger level of 47.4m and 0.7m above its previous highest flood level of 48m on August 24, 2017. According to the bulletin, Khiroi river, one of the Adhwara group of rivers, was flowing above the danger mark at both flood gauges at Kamtaul and Ekmighat in Darbhanga district. WRD minister Sanjay Kumar Jha told TOI that the districts concerned have been asked to remain on alert. “Bagmati, Burhi Gandak and Adhwara rivers are turbulent at present and flowing above danger level at several places. Our engineers are keeping a strict vigil on water level in the rivers and the embankment,” he told TOI. Weathermen at the Patna Meteorological Centre claimed that heavy rainfall is expected in several districts in north Bihar over the next 24 hours. Surendra Kumar Patel, an officer at the centre said the monsoon trough line was passing through Varanasi-Patna-Nagaland arc on Thursday. Besides, another trough line formed between north- east Uttar Pradesh to south- east Madhya Pradesh. “Under the influence of such weather systems, light to moderate rainfall is expected at many places in Bihar. Besides, heavy rainfall along with thunderstorms is expected at one or two places in Saran, Siwan, Sitamarhi, Madhubani, Darbhanga, Samastipur, Supaul, Araria, Kishanganj and Khagaria districts,” he said. He added, “Light to moderate rainfall occurred at many places along with heavy rainfall at one or two places in eastern parts of the state in the last 24 hours.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/flood-hit-dists-go-up-to-14-in-north-bihar-40l-affected/articleshow/77269281.cms||Piyush Tripathi
July 31, 2020||Hubballi||Students find biology tough, maths easy||Dharwad,: The first day of the Common Entrance Test passed off smoothly on Thursday at 23 centers in the twin cities of Dharwad and Hubballi. According to officials at the department of PU Education a total of 7,848 students had registered their names to appear for CET in Dharwad district. Accordingly, the Department of PU Education had set up 23 centers (12 in Dharwad and 11 in Hubballi). Of the total 7,799 students registered, 6,114 candidates appeared for biology in the first session and 1,685 candidates remained absent. In the second session for mathematics 7,067 candidates appeared and 732 remained absent. The candidates said while the biology paper was tough while maths was easy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/students-find-biology-tough-maths-easy/articleshow/77269268.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Hubballi||Two months after wedding, man held for murder of wife||Chitradurga: Chitrahalli Gate police in Hosadurga taluk of Chitradurga district on Thursday arrested a 27-year-old man for allegedly murdering his wife within two months of their wedding. The accused Chandrappa, a resident of Menasina Bhovihalli, while the deceased is Uma, 19, from Mettalahole. They were married on May 28, but the relation took a deadly turn on July 28. For the last two months, they had not on been terms after Uma suspected her husband’s infidelity. According to her father Ramabovi, the complainant, Uma suffered physical and mental torture at the hands of Chandrappa for questioning his affair with another woman. “On Tuesday (July 28), Uma called me to say that Chandrappa beat her up black and blue for objecting to his video call with the other woman,” Ramabovi has said in the complaint. The next morning, Ramabovi’s neighbour told him that Uma was killed by Chandrappa. When Ramabovi rushed to her house along with relatives, she was found lying dead on the ground with a dupatta around her neck. PSI Manjunath said that the accused allegedly strangulated Uma using the dupatta and then hanged the body to the roof, to make it look like suicide. “Chandrappa had even cried when the neighbours gathered at his house. But he confessed to the crime before the police,” the PSI added. Chitradurga SP G Radhika and senior police officers visited the crime spot before taking the accused into their custody. A case has been booked under IPC 498 (A), 302 and 201. Police quizzed the accused before sending him in judicial custody, the SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/two-months-after-wedding-man-held-for-murder-of-wife/articleshow/77269095.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Hubballi||Lack of donors hampers efforts to treat patients using plasma therapy||Hubballi: Notwithstanding the encouraging results that use of convalescent plasma therapy to treat patients infected with Covid-19 has yielded at the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), Hubballi – as many as 13 patients have been treated successfully employing the method – not many people who have recovered from the pandemic are volunteering to donate plasma. This reluctance on the part of those who have recovered from the infection is slightly baffling, particularly in the face of the government incentivising it. Principal investigator in-charge of placid plasma trial at KIMS Dr Ram Koulgud said that, enthused by the initial success with the method, many recovered patients had volunteered to donate plasma, which had subsequently helped them treat more patients. “But the response has not been as overwhelming recently. We need at least four to five donors to step forward to donate plasma daily, but hardly two or three are turning up in a week now,” Dr Koulgud told TOI. Urging the government to initiate a concerted campaign to encourage more recovered patients to volunteer for donation of plasma, he added, “There is a misapprehension among the people that donation of plasma will have an adverse impact on their health. Furthermore, they fear they might contract the infection again. We are trying to allay such fears among the public, but the government needs to step up its efforts to raise awareness if voluntary participation needs to improve.” Dr Koulgud said that as many as 30 of the 40 patients currently receiving treatment at the intensive care unit (ICU) at KIMS were in desperate need of plasma for treatment. “We are not in a position to ensure all of them get plasma treatment. Only nine patients have consented to donate plasma as of now,” he said. The senior doctor said that a team had been constituted to contact those who had recovered from the infection and convince them to donate plasma. Dr Koulgud regretted the institution’s inability to provide plasma therapy to all patients in need of it owing to lack of donors. “The government must arrange for those who recover to be counselled when they are discharged, and prepare them mentally for donation of plasma,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/lack-of-donors-hampers-efforts-to-treat-patients-using-plasma-therapy/articleshow/77269946.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
July 31, 2020||Vadodara||SSGH superintendent shunted over negligence||Vadodara: Dr Rajiv Deveshvar, superintendent of SSG Hospital (SSGH) was shunted to Himmatnagar late on Wednesday night over allegations of gross negligence with regard to managing affairs of the biggest government hospital in central Gujarat. The state of affairs at the SSGH had come under the scanner after a visit by the administrator and advisor appointed for the hospital visited the Covid-19 treatment facilities there. It came to light that the preparedness of the hospital was lagging much behind the claims made by the hospital. In this situation, it would have been disastrous if a large number of patients were rushed to the hospital. Deveshvar was given marching orders after the visit by chief minister Vijay Rupani and deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, who also holds the health portfolio. Sources said that discussions were held on the sidelines of the official meetings regarding the affairs at SSGH and serious issues arising there. It is no surprise that on Wednesday night Deveshvar was transferred to Himmatnagar as the dean of the GMERS Medical College and Hospital there. Professor of otorhinolaryngology Dr Ranjan Iyer was given the charge of the SSGH superintendent. Apart from the notice earlier, the transfer is being seen as a punishment also because the superintendent’s post at the Himmatnagar hospital was vacant, but Deveshvar was not appointed on it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ssgh-superintendent-shunted-over-negligence/articleshow/77267931.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Chandigarh||6th state-level job fair to be held in Sept: Min||Chandigarh: The Punjab government under its flagship scheme ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar Yojna’ has decided to organise sixth edition of state-level mega job fairs from September 24 to 30 across the state. Job fairs would cover all districts. following all precautionary guidelines and taking all safety measures regarding COVID-19. Punjab employment generation minister Charanjit Singh Channi shared that virtual and physical platforms would be used for the event this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The minister said only such venues would be selected for job fairs by the district administration where there was possibility of following the Covid-19 protocols. The number of people allowed to be present at the venue at one particular time would be ascertained and documented. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/6th-state-level-job-fair-to-be-held-in-sept-min/articleshow/77272220.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan HC notices to speaker, six MLAs on BSP-Congress merger||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan high court on Thursday issued notices to the state assembly speaker, secretary and the six legislators who were elected on BSP tickets but later merged with the Congress. After hearing the matter on two consecutive days, a single bench of justice Mahendar Kumar Goyal issued the notices and sought replies from the speaker and the six MLAs by August 11. The BJP MLA and the BSP court had asked for disqualification of the MLAs but the court granted them no interim relief, which could have affected the Ashok Gehlot-government that might seek a trust vote during the assembly session commencing from August 14. With 19 MLAs under the now-sacked deputy CM Sachin Pilot revolting, the state’s Congress government appears in crisis. The BSP-Congress merger, which was allowed by speaker CP Joshi in September 2019, was challenged by BJP MLA Madan Dilawar and BSP separately. Dilawar first petitioned the speaker but his complaint was rejected, so he approached the court. Since the Rajasthan Assembly Rule-6 (disqualification on the ground of changing party Rules 1989) allows only a member of the house to move a petition before the speaker, the BSP filed the petition directly in high court. Senior counsels Harish Salve representing the BJP MLA and Satish Chandra Mishra representing the BSP argued before the single bench through video conferencing from London and Lucknow, respectively. “It was argued that the six MLAs be disqualified under provisions of Schedule X as they voluntarily gave BSP membership by their conduct of defecting to the Congress,” said advocate Ashish Sharma, who assisted Salve from Jaipur in the matter. In the state assembly elections held in December 2018, the Congress emerged as the single largest party with 100 MLAs in the 200-member house and formed a government with support from its pre-poll alliance partner RLD that had one MLA. The BSP petitioned the court that it supported Congress in government formation but after a few months dissent started appearing among the Independent and other legislators, including “certain Congress MLAs on account of the leadership”. “The court was told the Congress resorted to unethical, illegal and unconstitutional sources of defection by alluring the BSP MLAs with ‘benefits’ best known to them,” said advocate Dinesh Kumar Garg, who assisted senior counsel Mishra in the matter. Questioning the merger, the BSP said, “The speaker did not ascertain whether there was split in original BSP at national or state level, what procedure was followed, where the meeting was held, who attended it and whether any resolution was passed for the merger. No notice was issued to BSP and the speaker accepted the merger under para 4 of Schedule X and passed an ex-parte order on September 18, 2019.” The court was told that the anti-defection law never intended to treat a state unit of a political party as a separate entity for the purpose of benefit of para 3 of Schedule X and that the same yardstick should be applied for para 4 and, thus, the merger of a national party will have to take place at the national level. The six BSP MLAs include Sandeep Yadav (Tijara), Wajib Ali (Nagar), Joginder Singh Avana (Nadbai), Deepchand Kheria (Kishangarh Bas), Lakhan Singh Meena (Karauli) and Rajendra Gudha (Udaipurwati).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-hc-notices-to-speaker-six-mlas-on-bsp-cong-merger/articleshow/77272224.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
July 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: SI survives Covid-19, loses 24-year-old son||HYDERABAD: Tragedy struck families of two police officials from Sangareddy district on Thursday. While one SI succumbed to the virus, another SI conquered Covid-19. However, his happiness was short-lived when his young son died of Covid-19. In the first instance, a 58-year-old SI, who tested positive for Covid-19 on July 26, initially underwent treatment at home in Jogipet under the supervision of his pharmacist-son. However, on July 28, the SI was shifted to a private hospital in Gachibowli with breathlessness. As his condition deteriorated on Thursday morning, the hospital administration advised the family members to shift the SI to another hospital as the only working ventilator in their hospital was already occupied. After failing to secure ventilator bed in three other private hospitals, the SI’s family finally reached Gandhi Hospital on Thursday evening, but by that time he lost pulse. “He passed away,” said a senior colleague of the SI. In another incident, an SI of Sangareddy district who underwent treatment for Covid-19 at Gandhi Hospital for two weeks was discharged on Thursday after testing negative for the virus. However, his 24-year-old son succumbed to Covid-19 while undergoing treatment at a hospital in Bidar in Karnataka, a police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/si-survives-covid-loses-24-yr-old-son/articleshow/77272219.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Kolkata||No entrance test at JU Arts, St Xavier’s College; Presidency University yet to take a call||KOLKATA: The Arts faculties at Jadavpur University and St Xavier’s College (autonomous) Kolkata have called off entrance examinations for undergraduate courses in the 2020-21 academic session. It’s uncertain whether Presidency University will conduct entrance exams or not but West Bengal Joint Entrance Examination Board, which holds the tests, will convey its decision by next week. At JU, admission committees of the nine Arts departments on Thursday decided unanimously not to hold entrance exams this year and use a new formula to admit UG students. At St Xavier’s College (autonomous) Kolkata, the three UG admission tests in Bachelor of management studies (BMS), MSc in multimedia and animation and BSc in mass communication and videography will be replaced with a criterion-based admission. “With no end to the Covid situation and the state notifying state-aided universities to begin admissions from August 10, entrance exams to undergraduate programmes at Jadavpur University are not possible. The Arts admission committee on Thursday finalized their entrance parameters,” said a senior JU teacher. Individual departments came up with their own formulas. “Though admission tests are necessary, it is impossible to hold them this year. Several candidates who apply to JU come from distant towns and villages and do not have the means to appear for online exams. The public transport system is not in place and local trains are absent,” ,” said JU official. Another Arts admission committee meeting is slated for Friday. TOI had reported on July 24 about JU and Presidency’s likely changes in the admission policies this year. The JU committees decided that students in the English department will be selected based on a 50-50 formula, 50% weightage being allotted to language scores and 50% to the Plus-II aggregate of best four subjects. In comparative literature, the divide will be 60-40, 60% to be kept for language scores and the remaining on the aggregate. For international relations, Sanskrit and sociology, candidates will be chosen based on the aggregate of the best four subject marks. In philosophy, students will be admitted based on their best four subjects’ marks, including that of one language, while in history, it will be the scores of best four subjects, including that of the first language. Economics is the only department among nine which is yet to decide on a formula. “They will decide in a few days,” said an official. “The Bengali department will be the only one in JU Arts that will also consider Madhyamik marks. They will give 70% weightage to English and Bengali scores in Plus-II, 55% of which will be on Bengali and 15% on English. The rest 30% weightage will be given to Class-X marks, 10% to English and 20% to Bengali scores in Class X boards,” said a faculty member. The JU science faculty will hold admissions committee meeting by the end of this week. At Presidency, senior officials said it was the West Bengal Joint Entrance Examination Board that will take all decisions, like, whether to hold a test online or offline, or return to the mark-based system and the dates. “ It is unlikely we will begin the academic session soon,” said a Presidency official. The entrance test, which was slated for April, has been postponed. A decision will, however, be taken by both JU and Presi by August 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-entrance-test-at-ju-arts-xaviers-presi-yet-to-take-a-call/articleshow/77270896.cms||Somdatta Basu
July 31, 2020||Bhopal||Less lockdown, big caution to save economy||Bhopal: At least half-a-dozen or more districts in MP, including Bhopal, are under complete lockdown in a bid to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, had on Wednesday said that now the strategy to control the Coronavirus pandemic should be “lockdownless”, giving a clear indication that lockdown could not be a solution every time there is a spurt in coronavirus cases. It is imperative to give the economy a boost through uninterrupted economic activities, he said. If not lockdown, what is the way ahead to control the pandemic and at the same time, let life roll on normally? TOI talked to a cross-section of people on the subject: One thing where everybody seemed to agree was that people should strictly follow the Covid protocol like wearing mask and maintain social distancing and also that testing should be increased and medical facilities enhanced. They also insisted that community surveillance is more effective for the purpose. However, many of them felt that the state government has failed to involve the community in the task. Former chief secretary Nirmala Buch, said, “The government should also take the Covid-19 pandemic head on. Testing should increase and people should get the best possible treatment. Certain restrictions may be put in place following reviews, but I would insist that people also do what they are being asked to do in their own interest.” Health activist Amulya Nidhi, who was also a member of the Right to Health draft committee, said, “Government can’t control the coronavirus pandemic unless it prepares a plan ward-wise and panchayat-wise.” He further said that initially people were misled into believing that lockdown would break the chain of infection and the country would win over the pandemic. “Lockdown doesn’t end a pandemic. It delays its spread,” he said. Peeyush Sharma, an entrepreneur, said, “Different nations are doing different things to control the coronavirus pandemic. Different states in India are using different methods. But, the manner in which Delhi bounced back even after the lockdown had been lifted and Dharavi — the largest slum area in Mumbai — made a comeback, tells us how the Covid-19 pandemic can be controlled without lockdown. More testing, better treatment and community participation.” General secretary of Bhopal Kirana Mahasangh, Anupam Agrawal, said, “We were told that lockdown is necessary because coronavirus cases are spiralling. We agreed, but if the state government could devise a way to control the situation without imposing lockdown, nothing like it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/less-lockdown-big-caution-to-save-economy/articleshow/77270870.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Bhopal||834 new infections in state, Covid count nears 31,000||Bhopal: As many as 834 people were diagnosed with Covid-19 infection across Madhya Pradesh on Thursday. The infection tally in MP touched 30,968 cases, according to state health bulletin. Besides, there were 13 more deaths due to COVID-19. So far, a total 857 people have died due to the infection in the state. The latest deaths included five from Bhopal, two from Indore and one each in Burhanpur, Chhattarpur, Vidisha, Sehore, Datia and Satna districts. Among the new cases, the highest — 233 — was reported from Bhopal, followed by 84 in Indore, 73 in Barwani and 47 in Jabalpur. Sehore and Barwani continued to show new spurt in coronavirus infection. On Thursday, Sehore reported 27 cases while Barwani reported 73 positives. Jabalpur also reported 47 new infection cases. On the bright side, 723 persons were discharged from Covid-19 hospitals across MP. The number of cases in Indore, the worst-hit district in the state, went up by 84 to 7,216 and the death toll to 310 with two more fatalities, according to the health department bulletin. Of the 52 districts in MP, 49 have reported fresh cases of Covid-19 since Wednesday. There are 3,261 active containment zones in the state as of Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/834-new-infections-in-state-covid-count-nears-31000/articleshow/77270895.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Jaipur||Plan to boost oil royalty by scaling up exploration||Jaipur: With the royalty revenue from oil and gas falling over Rs 900 crore in the past four months compared to last year due to sharp decline in crude oil prices, the department is planning to help companies engaged in exploration ramp up production by expediting approval for new land in the Barmer-Sanchore basin. In a review meeting of chief secretary Rajeeva Swarup, the petroleum department said that it has approached the revenue department to expedite the process of non-agriculture land conversion and allotment of government land so that exploration work gains pace, resulting in higher production and improved royalty. Similarly, the department is also working on to offer deemed conversion facility, which is available to solar power projects in the state. For this, the Land Revenue Act is to be amended which is under process. Earlier, the major hydrocarbon explorer Cairn India was allowed to take land on lease from farmers directly without any government intervention. In its presentation, the department also pitched for the same which has been discontinued for some time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/plan-to-boost-oil-royalty-by-scaling-up-exploration/articleshow/77272231.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Madurai||Folk singer struggles to make ends meet, turns to farm work||Madurai: For V Lingammal, a 48-year-old folk artist, no singing at temple functions or funerals means no money. The kummi paattu artist from Parapatti in Madurai district was earning Rs 5,000 a month before lockdown. But now she is struggling to make her both ends meet as the lockdown has rendered her jobless for the past few months. Her husband Veeran died some six years ago. As her daughter K Muthumari, 29, who was deserted by her husband 5 months ago has come to live with her along with her 2 daughters, including a two-month-old toddler, she found it difficult to meet even their basic expenses. “My mother is now forced to go forfarm work, which is also hard to come by. With a toddler in hand, I could not help my mother much,” said Muthumari. A social activist B Karpagam, who found them in abject poverty, brought the issue to the notice of an advocate and social activist S Malaisamy, who in turn brought the matter to the notice of district collector T G Vinay. Based on his instructions, Lingammal’s 10-year-old son and Muthumari’s eldest daughter were admitted to a reception home. B Pandiarajan, member of child welfare committee, Madurai district said that he got instructions of district collector through his personal assistant (general) to admit them in a home. The children underwent medical screening and were admitted to reception home for time being. After the pandemic is over, they will be shifted to home and their education will be taken care of, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/folk-singer-struggles-to-make-ends-meet-turns-to-farm-work/articleshow/77272207.cms||V Devanathan
July 31, 2020||Delhi||NEP highly regulated, poorly funded: Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia||NEW DELHI: After a cursory observation on Wednesday, deputy chief minister and education minister Manish Sisodia gave a more elaborate comment on the new National Education Policy and said education was “highly regulated and poorly funded”. He demanded legislation mandating a minimum of 6% of the GDP for education. Sisodia also stressed that though the new policy was forward looking, it provided no road map for a transition. Sisodia was referring to the policy recommendations on a commission, a regulatory body, a directorate of education, SCERT and the state education board when he talked of a “highly regulated” setup. “These agencies are going to overlap and fight each another,” the deputy CM said at a press conference on Thursday. Sisodia also questioned the time taken by the Centre to decide on extending the Right to Education up to Class XII. “In six years of deliberations, if you couldn’t resolve the issue of funding and bringing the entire school education under RTE, how do you propose to implement the policy?” he asked. He had sharp words for the Centre’s push for the privatisation of school education. “The policy mentions that private philanthropic efforts for quality education will be encouraged,” he noted. “But every private school is run by a trust, so it is already philanthropic. Isn’t this giving a push to private education? The policy should have been explicit on committing to quality education by the government instead of encouraging private education.” Sisodia appreciated NEP for recognising early childhood education, but was concerned about the two models suggested by it. “While one set of children will receive early education through anganwadi workers, another will be through trained by nursery teachers,” he reasoned. “It is important to remember that students in government schools are mostly first-generation learners.” He was also critical of NEP promoting vocational courses but failing to highlight what would happen if such a student applied for college education. “With a vocational certificate, students will not be able to get admission in Delhi University or be eligible to sit for the civil services examinations,” the minister observed. Criticising the need for board exams for Class XII when a national entrance test would be conducted for admission to higher education institutions, Sisodia said, “NEP talks about making the board examination easier, but misses the point. It is not about hard or easy exams, it is about assessing the learning, understanding and application of students. Today new experiments are being carried in education across the world, but NEP has failed to take note of them.” He said he was yet to study the implications for higher education, but was disconcerted by the bid to make all universities and institutions multi-disciplinary. “There are specialised institutes and they should he left that. Will IIT now train actors and FTII produce engineers?” Sisodia smiled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nep-highly-regulated-poorly-funded-sisodia/articleshow/77271000.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Works on hold after GHMC standing committee meeting cancelled||HYDERABAD: A meeting of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) standing committee was cancelled on Thursday. This is the second consecutive meeting that has been cancelled and even the next meeting is likely to be cancelled, said a source in GHMC. The meeting was cancelled as Hyderabad mayor Bonthu Rammohan has tested positive for Covid-19 and is under home isolation. While many GHMC corporators admitted that developmental works were dented, some of them said that the impact was less. “Major works which need more funds will be affected adversely. For instance, if meeting was held today, we would put across all the measures that need to taken ahead of Bakrid in front of the GHMC commissioner and top officials. As there was no standing committee meeting, we held a meeting at zonal level and chalked out a plan,” said Mirza Mustafa Baig, AIMIM corporator form Riyasatnagar and standing committee member. While A Aruna, TRS corporator form Ramgopalpet, who is also a committee member, denied that works were halted, a TRS corporator said several works had been halted. “I prepared a proposal which needs the committee’s approval. With the meeting being cancelled, the work will now be halted for more than a month,” said a TRS corporator. As per norms, GHMC commissioner has the discretionary powers to sanction works upto Rs 2 crore (each work). If the worth of each work ranges between Rs 2 crore-Rs 3 crore, it needs the standing committee’s approval. If the work ranges from Rs 3 crore-Rs 6 crore, it needs approval of general body meeting. Works worth more than Rs 6 crore is sent to government for approval. “Instead of waiting for general body meeting, we used to send proposals to government after discussing it in standing committee meeting. Irony is due to Covid-19, even that provision is not available,” said a GHMC corporator from TRS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/works-on-hold-after-standing-committee-meeting-cancelled/articleshow/77272241.cms||Nabinder Bommala
July 31, 2020||Jaipur||MSME council hears 69 payment dispute cases to unlock cos’ stuck money||Jaipur: In a bid to release disputed payments to MSMEs and help them in tying up working capital during the Covid crisis, the industries department on Thursday held a meeting of the facilitation council and took up 69 cases. Currently, there are 2,280 disputed payment cases registered with the council worth nearly Rs 1,000 crore. Despite raising the number of MSME Facilitation Councils from one to four, hearings in the quasi-judicial bodies did not take place in the past four months due to the pandemic. Officials involved in conducting the meeting said in 41 cases, the sellers (MSMEs) and buyers (mostly government departments and undertakings) opted for compromise, while 18 cases were referred to the settlement committee or the arbitrator. The rest 10 cases were found not eligible for a hearing in the council. One of the officials said the resolutions in the cases will release close to Rs 10 crore cumulatively to the 59 MSMEs. “The MSMEs are hard pressed in tying up working capital in the current business environment. That’s why the department has decided to hold meetings of the facilitation council with regular frequency and settle dispute for unlocking their funds,” the official said. Two meetings have been lined up on August 5 and 6 and there would be regular meetings now to resolve as many cases as possible. “The department will hold four hearings in the councils every month and that will reduce the case pile,” said the official. There was a plan for the online meetings keeping in view the social distancing norms but it was found that since documents need to be exchanged, the virtual process would not be practical. Last year, the government increased the number of councils from one to four for resolving the cases expeditiously. Now, there is a proposal to increase the number to nine. But without meetings and hearings, the facilitation councils would bring no relief to MSMEs as was witnessed during most of the tenure in the previous BJP government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/msme-council-hears-69-payment-dispute-cases-to-unlock-cos-stuck-money/articleshow/77272245.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Armed poachers run wild in Telangana's Amrabad||HYDERABAD: Motion-sensitive cameras placed in forest areas for tiger census captured the big cats, but also exposed the stark reality of armed poachers having a free run in some tiger reserves in Telangana. The ‘Status of Tigers, Co-predators and Prey in India’ report, released by the Centre on Tuesday, has revealed the presence of armed poachers and snared wildlife in Amrabad tiger reserve. According to the report, the camera trap images showed presence of armed poachers in Jharkhand’s Palamau tiger reserve and Chhattisgarh’s Udanti Sitanadi tiger reserve, while snared wildlife were photographed in Madhya Pradesh’s Pench tiger reserve and South Panna division, Uttarakhand’s Rajaji tiger reserve, Mizoram’s Dampa tiger reserve and Maharashtra’s Melghat tiger reserve. National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) assesses the magnitude of human disturbances within tiger reserves and tiger-occupied areas using relative abundance index (RAI) obtained through camera trap images of livestock, free ranging domestic dogs, wild animals with snares, poachers with arms or poached carcasses. To tackle the problem of poaching, experts say the decline and lack of improvement in the status of Udanti-Sitanadi, Achanakmar, Amrabad, Palamu, NSTR and Dampa tiger reserves could be correlated with a high disturbance regime and poaching. “Incentivised voluntary relocation of tribal communities from the core of Nagarjunsagar-Srisailam Tiger Reserve (NSTR) and Amrabad tiger reserve should be a priority. The tiger status of Kawal and Amrabad would benefit substantially with enhanced protection and better law and order situation,” the report said. With respect to Kawal tiger reserve, the report mentions poaching as a serious problem in Chennur and Kagaznagar forest divisions, where tiger presence was noted. Wildlife conservationists claim the forest officials should have a database of poachers because in every forest area there would be two to three people who will be professionally involved in hunting. “With all the money that NTCA sends, a chunk of the funds are supposed to be spent on protection mechanisms. If there is a presence of poaching in the tiger reserve, it means there is some gap or inadequacy in the way funds are being utilised,” Diya Sur Banerjee, a wildlife conservationist, told TOI. When contacted, Amrabad tiger reserve, deputy conservator of forest, Kista Goud said, “These cases of armed poachers or wildlife snares are very sporadic. In some areas, farmers put snares to protect their crop from wild boars, but we are conducting regular awareness programmes to stop these activities. We are also identifying villagers who set up these snares or those involved in any illegal activities and booking cases as per the Wildlife Act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/armed-poachers-run-wild-in-amrabad/articleshow/77272757.cms||Moulika.KV
July 31, 2020||Dehradun||Pvt school in Doon fined Rs 1L by education department||Dehradun: The district education department has imposed a fine of Rs 1 lakh on a private school located in Rajpur Road, Dehradun on Wednesday, for allegedly violating the Right to Education (RTE) registration norms. The education department said that the school was sent notices to comply with the RTE registration norms in early 2020 but there had been no reply from the school. Meanwhile, the management of the school cried foul and said that the penalty imposed on them is unjustified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pvt-school-in-doon-fined-rs-1l-by-education-department/articleshow/77269447.cms||Mohammad Anab
July 31, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Deep sea fishermen hesitant to enter waters||KANYAKUMARI: The annual 61-day fishing ban on the west coast, which is usually in effect between June 1 and July 31, has been reduced to 47 days. The trawling ban that started on June 15 will end on July 31 this year as the fishermen have not been fishing from mid-March as a result of the Covid-19 outbreak. Though they have not been to the sea for more than 135 days, most of them are not likely to resume fishing on August 1. Of the four fishing harbours in Kanyakumari district, Thengapattanam, Colachel and Muttom are in the west coast and there are 1,020 mechanised boats in these harbours. It includes 230 trawlers (including a few unregistered) and 790 deep sea fishing boats. Though trawlers are ready for fishing, deep sea fishing boat owners that directly employ more than 8,000 people are hesitant and many would not go due to various factors. “Most important of all is marketing our catch after spending 20 to 40 days at the sea. In March, when Kochi fishing harbor was closed, hundreds of boats came to Thengapattanam. This had resulted in several tonnes of fish going waste and we faced loss to the tune of several crores of rupees,” said P Dickson, a boat owner. Kerala has strictly enforced restrictions to bring Covid-19 spread under control. Of the 790 deep sea boats, as many as 478 are anchored at Kochi and other harbours in Kerala, leaving only 312 at Thengapattanam. Fishermen here are unable to go to Kerala to take those boats for fishing. Boat owners here also expressed concern whether they would be allowed to sell their catch in Kerala under these circumstances. Fishermen expressed apprehension about the condition of engines that have kept idle for more than four months and they would be in trouble if the engines seize a few hundred nautical miles into the deep sea. They also expressed concern over the possibility of people developing Covid-19 symptoms, wherein they would not be able to rush to the nearest coast in other states due to the restrictions in place. On the other hand, trawlers going to the sea have raised concern over a possible outbreak as many merchants will come to the harbours to buy fish. This is unlike the deep sea fishing boats that directly sell the catch to wholesalers who in turn send it to exporters and to big companies. It may be recalled that some coastal villages such as Thoothoor region had become Covid-19 hotspots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tamil-nadu-deep-sea-fishermen-hesitant-to-enter-waters/articleshow/77272218.cms||M K Ananth
July 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Healthcare employees victims of KYC crooks||HYDERABAD: Though fraudsters from Jamtara, Jharkhand are notorious for indulging in cyber crimes, they also targeting healthcare professionals during the pandemic. Citing two examples of fraudsters targeting healthcare workers, Cyberabad police commissioner V C Sajjanar has advised people to use a separate phone and SIM card for bank account transactions to safeguard themselves from cyber crooks. “The cyber fraudsters from Jamtara district of Jharkhand are targeting doctors and their supporting staff, who are busy treating Covid-19 patients. As the healthcare workers are busy due to the health crisis, the fraudsters posing as Paytm executives have been exerting pressure on them to install remote desktop applications and share bank account details in the guise of KYC data updation and siphoning off money from their bank accounts,” the commissioner said. On July 9, fraudsters had called a staff nurse of a corporate hospital in Gachibowli, when she was busy on duty, posing as Paytm customer care staff and forced her to install Team Viewer QuickSupport app on her mobile phone. The accused made her share the ID number of the app and then made her perform transaction from an e-wallet for a small amount. Subsequently, the accused siphoned off Rs 1.69 lakh from her two bank accounts. On July 18, the fraudsters, again posing as Paytm executives, called a lady doctor working at a corporate hospital and siphoned off Rs 91,570 from her three bank accounts after obtaining bank account and debit/credit card details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/healthcare-employees-victims-of-kyc-crooks/articleshow/77272279.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gold rush: Covid-19 pandemic outstrips other crises||AHMEDABAD: Known to be a hedge against economic and geopolitical crises, gold prices have rallied whenever a crisis had taken place — be it the ongoing Covid-19 outbreak or financial meltdown in 2008 or the 9/11 terror attack on the World Trade Centre (WTC) in 2001. Among major crises that shook the world, gold prices have jumped the sharpest during the Covid-19 pandemic. Read the entire story on TOI+https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/why-covid-19-has-been-the-best-crisis-for-gold/articleshow/77279346.cms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gold-rush-covid-19-pandemic-outstrips-other-crises/articleshow/77272308.cms||Niyati Parikh
July 31, 2020||Madurai||51 of hamlet near Sivakasi test positive||Madurai: In all, 51 people from a hamlet of 350 people at Vembakottai block in Virudhunagar district near Sivakasi have tested positive for Covid-19. Health officials working in the Vembakottai block said that the people of D Kansapuram had asked them to come and get tested as many of them were down with fever. They conducted fever camps on July 19 and 20 where 110 people were tested and 51 of them were found to be positive with Covid-19. These people work in matchwork industries in and around Vembakottai and it is not yet known as to how they contracted the disease. But, there are chances that one person might have spread it among the people . Panchayat president of D Kansapuram, K Murugeswari, said that they did not know how these people became infected. “We distribute kabasura kudineer regularly to the people and insist that they wear masks,” she said. However, health officials said that social distancing is never followed here and the people still do not use proper masks. “We do not know if about 50 people who came from Chennai, to attend a funeral, about a month ago, brought the infection,” said G Karuppasamy, Murugeswari’s husband. The 51 villagers had been kept in a Covid care facility in a private college. “Twenty eight of them came home on Wednesday night and said that the doctors had told them they were free of the disease after staying three days in the facility and 21 more called me and said they would come on Friday,” said Murugeswari. Thirty more samples were collected from the village on Thursday. Health officials said that they usually sent the people home from hospital on the 10th day after samples were taken, so most of these villagers had completed the time and were sent home. Lack of hygiene and social distancing is how these villagers could have contracted the disease, added officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/51-of-hamlet-near-sivakasi-test-positive/articleshow/77272223.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Bhopal||85% beds in Bhopal Covid hosps occupied||Bhopal: About 85% of Covid-19 beds available for treatment of diagnosed patients in the state capital are occupied, according to estimates. The number of people in home quarantine is less than 5%, according to health department estimates. However, the administration has not disclosed the exact number of people in home quarantine. The district administration has reversed the Union government’s home quarantine policy this week. According to the bulletin released by the health department, there are about 2,200 active cases undergoing treatment for Covid-19 infection in Bhopal. About 1,600 of them are hospitalised. About 500 patients are under institutional quarantine and about to complete their mandatory 14-day cycle of isolation. Most of the cases are being treated in the private Chirayu medical college and hospital, on the outskirts of the state capital. AIIMS Bhopal and Hamidia hospital deal more critically ill patients. Detection of a Covid-19 patient is followed by rapid isolation of such cases in designated health facilities and line listing of all contacts in such cases. Home quarantine is applicable to all such contacts of a suspect or confirmed case of Covid-19. However, it is not an option in Bhopal district. Institutional quarantine is being promoted. It includes use of hotel quarantine which is to be paid for by the patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/85-beds-in-bhopal-covid-hosps-occupied/articleshow/77270922.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Jaipur||RTDC staff to hold black rakhi day protest for not getting salaries||Jaipur: The employees union of Rajasthan Tourism Development Corporation (RTDC) has decided to observe black rakhi day to protest against the government’s failure to give them salary for over four months. On July 11, the state government had sanctioned Rs 10 crore for paying salaries of the corporation’s employees but they are yet to be paid. “The employees have not been paid salaries for four to seven months. Risking our lives, we have been working without fear. But there is no basic recognition. We need salaries to survive and run our family expenses. That’s why, we have decided to tie black rakhis on August 3 and come to office wearing them next day,” said Tej Singh Rathore, president of RTDC employees association. He said that all the departments are getting salaries except RTDC. “Despite the risks, we have not let our guard down. But what hurts is the indifference of the authorities to our plight,” added Rathore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rtdc-staff-to-hold-black-rakhi-day-protest-for-not-getting-salaries/articleshow/77272285.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Kolkata||Police may extend cycling concessions on Kolkata roads||KOLKATA: Lalbazar is likely to extend the concessions that were given to cyclists to use certain city roads last month. No changes, however, will be made to the order and it might be sanctioned with its previous rules. The earlier order, which was passed on June 9, expired on Thursday. A few days ago, some traffic guards had pleaded that roads, where cycling was not allowed, be mentioned clearly in the new order. “Bicycles will be allowed in the lanes and by-lanes within Kolkata Police jurisdiction. Restrictions will continue on the main arterial roads, flyovers and any other area as notified from time to time. Cyclists should obey one-way restrictions and other traffic rules and regulations. It shall come into force with immediate effect and shall be in effect till July 30, 2020,” the previous order had stated. Sources said the brass did not want to tinker much with the earlier order, given the ground conditions — for which the notification was issued in the first place — had not changed much. “We have taken an informed decision, looking into all issues,” said DC (traffic) Rupesh Kumar. The notification is expected to be issued in the next 24 hours. Various cops at traffic guards said that over the past two-odd months, they managed to bring some sense among bicyclists. “Most cyclists are now aware of the roads they must follow. At the same time, we have also started imposing nominal fines only at selective spots to drill in the importance of following traffic rules while riding a cycle,” said an ACP. “However, once the ‘no-go’ roads get earmarked, it’s always easier for cyclists to follow them,” he added. Lalbazar though warned cyclists that big and important roads would continue to be out of bounds. “We cannot allow cycles on the main roads and flyovers in the city. They have to use the lanes and by lanes. There will be no restrictions on timings, except the curfew hours between 9pm and 5am,” said DC (Traffic) Rupesh Kumar. Earlier, 62 roads in Kolkata had a blanket ban on cycling between 7am and 11pm. Police said that they were taking a practical stance on this issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-may-extend-cycling-concessions-on-city-roads/articleshow/77271008.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 31, 2020||Madurai||82% of Madurai city’s Covid-19 cases detected at fever camps||Madurai: Fever camps and micro management plan are proving to be a success in Madurai city as 6,681 (82%) of the 8,171 Covid-19 cases reported in the corporation limits were detected through fever camps.So far 10,392 cases have been reported in Madurai district till July 28. Among them, the rural area (the area except the corporation limits) reported only 21% (2,218) cases.Madurai city started witnessing a spurt in the number of positive cases without any major cluster from June end. Officials say cases are reported from various areas spread across the city. For instance, at least 68 wards in the city out of 100 wards reported at least one Covid-19 positive case on Wednesday. Zone four has 16 wards without any fresh case as on Thursday. Officials blame people who entered the city without e-passes for the spread.A corporation official said that fever camps have helped the civic body tackle the pandemic effectively. At a time when the city was experiencing a sudden increase of cases, the number of fever camps was increased to 155 that include mobile camps. Around 4,200 fever camps have been conducted till Thursday, he said.The official added that Madurai reported many influenza like infection cases and severe acute respiratory infection cases a month ago, but most of the cases reported now are asymptomatic or with moderate symptoms. On a regular basis, top 20 wards, from where more number of Covid-19 cases was reported, were given special attention by diverting most of the resources. Similarly, one monitoring officer was appointed for every four wards.“The work of the monitoring officer is to mainly concentrate one or two wards, from where more positive cases are reported. The effort is paying off with the number of positive cases is gradually coming down,” he said.A health official said that a chunk of cases were reported from Paravai market. Apart from the market, there has not been a single cluster in the city so far.Madurai district has recorded 222 Covid-19 related deaths till July 28. As many as 179 cases or 81% deaths are from the city. While the death rate in Madurai city is 2%, it is 1.9% in the rest of the district. Most of the Covid-19 cases reach hospital within three days of the start of fever, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/82-of-madurai-citys-covid-19-cases-detected-at-fever-camps/articleshow/77272240.cms||V Devanathan
July 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man threatens friend with acid in sanitizer bottle||AHMEDABAD: A man kept 100ml acid in his hand sanitizer bottle, barged into his friend’s office in Bhudarpura area and threatened to kill him by throwing acid on him. He was seeking money which his friend had taken from him few months ago. One of their common friends called up ACP of A Division who sent a team of cops and the man was nabbed on Wednesday night. Ellisbridge police filed two complaints in which the accused Shailesh Thakkar, 45, a resident of Ellisbridge, was booked for criminal intimidation and prohibition charges. According to the first FIR filed by an Ellisbridge PSI H V Ghela, ACP A division called up Ellisbridge police and told them to reach an office near Lohana Bhawan in Bhudarpura where Thakkar was threatening to throw acid on his friend, Pradeep Kalia, 58, a resident of Navrangpura. Thakkar was alleging that Kalia took money from him and did not return it. Thakkar was showing a bottle with a yellow liquid in it. When police reached the spot, Thakkar was abusing and threatening Kalia. Police personnel overpowered him and snatched the bottle. On checking, police found that he was carrying 100ml acid in the bottle of hand sanitizer. When police overpowered Thakkar, they came to know that he was drunk. So, the cops registered a case of prohibition against him. Kalia has also filed a complaint against Thakkar for allegedly intimidating him with a threat to throw acid on him. Ellisbridge police also registered a complaint of criminal intimidation and uttering of abusive words against Thakkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-threatens-friend-with-acid-in-sanitizer-bottle/articleshow/77270968.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Medicos warned against skipping training||AHMEDABAD: In a notice issued on Thursday, AMC has threatened to take action against medical students if they failed to turn up for the Covid-19 training session. The civic body said that it is the social responsibility of MBBS students to attend to the patients. “Despite several reminders, the students have failed to turn up for training sessions,” said an AMC official. The AMC notice stated that the AMC in its fight against corona has taken several measures which include Dhanvantari Rath, Sanjivani home care and rapid antigen test. All these measures required the presence of doctors, it said. The health and family department had on July 17 made it mandatory to impart training to first-year, second-year and third-year students of government and private medical colleges and utilize their services for Covid duties. The AMC had issued a notification earlier, asking the students of first, second and third year to remain present for a training on July 22. However, when the students failed to turn up, a notice was issued asking them to remain present for training on July 23. A separate training was organized for the final-year students of MBBS between July 28 and July 30. But no student turned up for the training.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/medicos-warned-against-skipping-training/articleshow/77271050.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Hry to register all contract workers, safeguard rights||Gurgaon: The state government has decided to link all industries or organisations employing contract workers as well as labour contractors with the Haryana Udhyam Memorandum (HUM) portal that will, for the first time, create a database of contractual workers employed in the state. Over the next six months, the government will first register all contractors and factories with more than 50 workers in the state, and then link them with the portal so that the database is created. The decision was announced after a meeting between deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala and members of the contract labour advisory board in Gurgaon on Thursday. The minister, who also holds the labour portfolio, said the move was aimed at “protecting the rights of contractual workers in the state”. “Once all factories and contractual workers have been registered, they will be entitled to several government benefits such as ESI (employees’ state insurance) and EPF (employees’ provident fund),” said Chautala. Currently, there are many industries in the state that are not registered under the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970. Though there are specific stipulations on minimum wages, those working in such factories or organisations often do not get paid on a par. They also don’t have a platform to lodge complaints. Officials said once all organisations and factories are registered, it will allow the government to take action against anyone engaging in malpractice or exploiting workers on pay and ESI or EPF benefits. In a state where 70% of the workforce is contractual, a database that gives workers a redress forum is long overdue. After the lockdown, with many factories laying off permanent employees and hiring workers on contract, the need for a database became all the more important. “When permanent workers are struggling for their rights as defined by the labour laws of this country, the condition of contractual workers is much worse. Even though the Factories Act guarantees minimum wages and provident fund for contractual workers, they barely get these benefits. And when they approach the government for help, it becomes difficult to make their case in the absence of any employment proof,” said Shyamvir, a labour rights activist. In the whole of Haryana, there are only about 2,300 contractors and organisations registered under the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970. Government rules make it mandatory for any industry with more than 50 workers to get itself registered. The move comes at a crucial juncture — when work on multiple projects across the state is struggling to gain momentum for lack of available workforce. Though in desperate need of jobs, migrant labourers who have left the state in hordes during the lockdown are still to return in large numbers and join work. This move is being seen as an effort by the government to reach out to them and bring more of the labour force back. Chautala said all industries and contractors who are yet to register themselves would be asked to submit Aadhaar numbers and details of their workers with the labour department, which will have six months to complete the procedure. After the registration process, all these factories and contractors would be given an HUM number each. “The labour department will first have to ensure that every organisation, every contractor is under its purview. After February 21, 2021, any factory or contractor who has still not registered would be penalised,” Chautala said. At the meeting, discussions were also held on the employment of contractual workers in the rubber industry. Officials said the government had decided to seek suggestions from these industries before taking a decision on the labourers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-to-register-all-contract-workers-safeguard-rights/articleshow/77272291.cms||Shubhra Pant
July 31, 2020||Madurai||DC tests positive for Covid-19||Madurai: The deputy commissioner (headquarters) of police has tested positive for Covid-19 and has been placed under home quarantine. His office in the commissioner’s office building in Alagarkovil Main Road was disinfected and closed. Police officials said the officer was following all medical protocols and responding well to medication. His close contacts in work place and his family members were tested subsequently. His 52-year-old wife and 32-year-old son also tested positive and undergoing treatment. Although a large number of police personnel in Madurai have been infected with the virus, the DCP is the first higher official to get infected. Officials said that best possible treatment and nutritious food are being provided to police personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dc-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/77272230.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Bhopal||223 test +ve in Bhopal, Covid tally rises to 6,490||Bhopal: The Covid-19 tally in the state capital went up to 6,490 on Thursday after 223 people tested positive. There has been no let-up in the coronavirus spread in Bhopal. Seven doctors have tested positive for the infection. It includes a senior faculty member of Gandhi Medical College (GMC). Three others are private practitioners. One of the doctor’s family members also tested positive for the infection. He is a resident of C sector Vidhya Nagar. One of the medical practitioners is linked to the Advance Medical College (Kolar). Three doctors from GMC were also in the list of seven. Medical staffers are also being diagnosed with the infection. One medical staffer from Hamidia Hospital and one from the nursing hostel was diagnosed with the infection. Arera Colony and Char Imli area continued to be new infection hubs. Two more people were diagnosed with the infection in Rishi Nagar near Char Imli. Five policemen in 23 Battalion campus were also diagnosed with Covid-19. Three policemen deputed under Shahjehanabad area and two from police lines Jehangirabad were also diagnosed with the infection. One police personnel in deputed in Gunga police station tested positive for Covid-19. Three people tested positive in district jail while one prisoner tested positive for the infection in Central Jail. Five members of a family in Arvind Vihar (Bagh Mughalia) tested postive. Nearby Pebble Bay area also reported new infection cases. A two-month old baby tested positive in Kolar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/223-test-ve-in-bhopal-covid-tally-rises-to-6490/articleshow/77270964.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Nagpur||OF unions to issue strike notice on Aug 4||Nagpur/Bengaluru: Two days after a meeting with the secretary (defence production) was held, unions in the ordnance factories have decided to issue a strike notice to the government on August 4. This will be for an indefinite strike from October 12 against the government’s proposal to corporatize the ordnance factory board (OFB). The unions will be waiting till Friday (July 31) to receive a communication from the government over their concern raised against corporatisation of the board. If not, the unions will communicate the date of strike notice to the government. “August 4, the day when unions plan to issue the notice, also coincides with the date when the tenders for selection of consultants for the corporatisation process would be opened,” said a joint press release issued by the three unions operating in ordnance factories. Later, a corrigendum issued by the government said that the tender will now be opened on August 18. If the unions go on a strike it would be for the second time that an indefinite strike will be held in the 41 ordnance factories. A strike was held on the same grounds on August last year after which a high-level committee was formed to discuss the corporatisation issue. The production at the factories has already taken a hit due to the Covid lockdown. The ministry of defence which plans to turn the OFB into a PSU, says it will improve flexibility, bring down the cost and improve quality of products. The ministry hopes that once a corporation the factories will also ensure timely delivery and will lead to better utilization of the assets. There are plans to start joint ventures with Russian entities for making spares. On the other hand, unions are arguing that it would not be commercially viable, especially due to fluctuating orders by the armed forces, and ultimately lead to a security threat. Lack of enough orders will impact the financial viability of the factories, say the unions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/of-unions-to-issue-strike-notice-on-aug-4/articleshow/77270961.cms||Shishir Arya
July 31, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Saffron flag on C N Annadurai statue act of mentally unstable man, say cops||KANYAKUMARI: Tense moments prevailed at the Kuzhithurai junction on the Nagercoil - Thiruvananthapuram NH after a saffron flag was found tied to the railing atop the pedestal bearing the statue of former chief minister C N Annadurai. Though the incident was seen as a saffronisation attempt by the right wing, preliminary inquiry by the police revealed that it was an act of a mentally unstable man. CCTV footage from a shop shows the elderly dhoti-clad man climbing the steps leading to the statue with a piece of cloth in his hand at 12.03 pm on July 27. The lower portion of the flag is then seen hanging from the railing and the man climbing down. Someone clicked a picture of the same and shared it in social media. It is learnt that the man who carries a sack with trash used to collect bright colour or shining cloth from trash and use it to ‘decorate’ odd spots including street lights with it. The police cleared the piece of cloth and some trash that the man left. On Thursday morning, DMK west district secretary and Padmanabhapuram MLA T Mano Thangaraj came to the spot to protest. After the police explained the incident, the protest was suspended. He met the Kanyakumari SP and sought a probe to ascertain if it was a saffronisation attempt as on the statues of Periyar and MGR in Coimbatore and Pondicherry. Deputy CM O Panneerselvam, PMK founder S Ramadoss, MDMK general secretary Vaiko and AMMK general secretary TTV Dinakaran strongly condemned the act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/saffron-flag-on-anna-statue-act-of-mentally-unstable-man-cops/articleshow/77272247.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Inter-state burglar arrested, 5.5 tola gold and bike recovered||HYDERABAD: An inter-state burglar reportedly involved in three offences in a short span of time in the city, was arrested at Katedan on Thursday. Acting on specific information, a Task Force team arrested the accused, Shanker Rao Biradar, from Katedan on Thursday for being in possession of a stolen bike. Police seized the stolen bike from Shanker’s possession and he confessed to have committed a bike theft and two chain snatching offences in Hyderabad during the past two weeks. “Shanker was arrested in September 2018 by the Hadapsar police of Pune in 47 cases, including 33 chain snatching offences and 14 bike thefts. In the last week of June, he came out of the Yerawada central prison on bail and moved to Hyderabad in the first week of July,” Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar said. After coming to Hyderabad, 36-year-old Shanker from Latur rented a room at Katedan. On July 19, he stole a bike at Langar Houz, the Hyderabad police chief said. On July 26, Shanker committed two chain snatching offences at Kachiguda and SR Nagar. Task Force sleuths analysed CCTV camera footage and zeroed in on the offender. Apart from the bike, police also recovered 5.5 tola stolen gold from the offender. The accused was handed over to the Kachiguda police for further investigation. “As per research conducted by a UK-based organisation, Hyderabad is in the 16th place in the world in the list of big cities with maximum number of CCTV cameras and in India, Hyderabad is on top,” Anjani Kumar said. “As of now, we have 3.5 lakh CCTV cameras and in coming three to four years, the number of cameras in the city will reach 10 lakh,” Anjani Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/inter-state-burglar-arrested-5-5-tola-gold-and-bike-recovered/articleshow/77272293.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Infected woman kept off flight||AHMEDABAD: The quick actions of a medical officer prevented a woman passenger infected with the virus from taking a flight to the US, despite the woman not cooperating. The woman ignored the warning of the officer and left for the airport, saying she had a flight to catch. According to officials, a vehicle from Himmatnagar entered the city near from SP Ring Road. According to standard procedure, all the passengers were checked and woman tested positive. The Ramol medical officer spoke to her and asked her to get herself treated. The woman brushed off the warning and instructed her driver to head to the airport. Officials said the Ramol medical officer informed assistant municipal commissioner Tejas Bhandari, who took up the issue with Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International airport terminal manager and passed on the car number and description of the woman. Based on the description, the woman was stopped and isolated and an ambulance took her to Civil Hospital. Officials said the alertness of the Ramol medical officer helped prevent other passengers and fliers at the airport from being infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/infected-woman-kept-off-flight/articleshow/77271044.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Pre-2006 civilian disability pensioners entitled to service element: HC||CHANDIGARH: In a move that would benefit thousands of civilian disability pensioners, the government has clarified that even pre-2006 disabled personnel would be entitled to "service element" of disability pension, irrespective of the length of service. This will provide respite to disability pensioners of Central Armed Police Forces, Coast Guard, General Reserve Engineering Force (GREF) and Railways. The disability pension comprises the service element and the disability element. Prior to 2006, the disability pensioners were receiving pension under the Central Civil Services Extraordinary Pension Rules, requiring 10 years of qualifying service to earn a ‘service element’. In 2010, on the lines of the defence services, the minimum qualifying service for service element of disability pension was abrogated with retrospective effect from 2006. However, the pre-2006 disabled retirees were not paid service element due to a grey area in the policy. In 2019, Rajesh Dahiya, a disabled retiree from the Coast Guard had approached the Punjab and Haryana high court against denial of service element to him, seeking directions to the department of pension & pensioners’ welfare (DoPPW) for a decision on his representations to the department to clarify the issue on release of service element to pre-2006 cases. The single bench, headed by Justice Harsimran Singh Sethi of the HC, had then directed the DoPPW to take a final decision in the matter within three months. The department had later informed the petitioner that it needed some more time. The DoPPW has now issued orders to all ministries and directed the release of service element to pre-2006 disability pensioners with less than 10 years of service with financial effect and arrears from January 1, 2006.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pre-2006-civilian-disability-pensioners-entitled-to-service-element-hc/articleshow/77272295.cms||Ajay Sura
July 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana’s Kawal a corridor not territory to any tiger||HYDERABAD: Telangana’s Kawal tiger reserve, which is spread across an area of 2,015.35 sq km, does not house even a single tiger now despite more than 20 big cats entering the forest since its formation in 2012. The Status of Tigers, Co-predators and Prey in India report released on Tuesday reiterated the concerns raised by wildlife conservationists in the state. The report mentioned that the tiger reserve only acts as a corridor between Maharashtra’s Tadoba and Chhattisgarh’s Indravati tiger reserve. The reserve has connectivity with Tadoba-Andhari tiger reserve (100 km) in the north and Indravati tiger reserve (150 km) in the east. The report revealed that Kawal is in need of conservation. “Repopulating this reserve is only possible through restorative management efforts such as reduction of resource extraction, incentivized voluntary relocation of human habitation, and control of poaching,” the report read. With two instances of poaching in Kawal last year, wildlife conservationist Diya Sur Banerjee has filed a PIL urging the court to declare inaction of the state and Centre in the case as illegal and arbitrary. “The dispersing tiger population coming from Maharashtra is vanishing from here because the reserve is demarcated into three core areas and three buffer zones. There are three different levels of management although it is just one tiger reserve, and no one no effort has been taken on relocation of villages from core areas,” said Banerjee. .While informing that certain issues are being addressed, the forest department said that there is movement of tigers in the reserve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kawal-a-corridor-not-territory-to-any-tiger/articleshow/77271005.cms||Moulika.KV
July 31, 2020||Dehradun||Teen daily wager scores 95% in U'khand class 10 Boards, secures 16th spot in state||Dehradun: Rudrapur’s Aman Kumar was working for his day’s wages at the local repair workshop when he received a call from his school principal on Thursday, saying he had scored 95% in the class 10 Board exams conducted by the Uttarakhand Board of Secondary Education (UBSE). The student of Janta Inter College, Rudrapur, who recently turned a full-time daily wager to support his family after the pandemic, had emerged as one of the top scorers in his district, Udham Singh Nagar, and secured 16th spot in the state. “I achieved what I did in spite of family problems. My teachers helped me with everything they could,” said the 15-year-old. Kumar woke up at 5am every day and studied for three hours before cycling to school, which is around a kilometre away from his home. He did not take any tuitions for the Boards. “After completing school and my job, I would do an hour of revision every night before going to bed,” he said. Kumar’s job, which is to wrap tapes on wires to be used in motorcycles, fetches him around Rs 6,000 every month. “I was doing a part-time daily-wage job before the lockdown but started working full time once the pandemic hit. The lockdown pushed our family into a deep financial crisis. My father’s income wasn’t enough to support our family. My older brother also took up a full-time daily-wage job alongside his graduation,” Kumar said. Kumar said that he doesn’t own a smartphone and would have to share one with his parents once online classes start. He plans to opt for the Science stream and become an IAS officer. “I want to work for the benefit of the society,” he said. Kumar, who happens to be a fan of cricket, said all-rounder Hardik Pandya inspired him to dream big despite unfavourable circumstances. “Pandya’s ability to turn the table with an excellent bowling spell in death overs or some late hitting inspired me to turn my situation around,” Kumar said. In spite of an impressive score, Kumar's situation is still uncertain. He doesn’t know yet if he would have to continue working at the workshop once his school reopens. “Thankfully, online classes will help me juggle work and studies,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/teen-daily-wager-scores-95-in-ukhand-class-10-boards-secures-16th-spot-in-state/articleshow/77269476.cms||Mohammad Anab
July 31, 2020||Madurai||HC warns officials over non-compliance of order||Madurai: The Madras high court on Thursday took a serious view over the non-compliance of an order passed by the court in a suo motu petition in 2018, directing to remove encroachments and garbage from a water channel at Y Othakadai in Madurai district and warned that it maybe contrained to initiate contempt against the officials. The court was hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by K Kavitha, a resident of Y Othakadai, who sought to clean and maintain the PWD Periyar Vaikkal at Kodikulam village and the adjoining land belonging to Kothandaramaswamy temple at Narasingam village in the district. The petitioner stated that poultry, meat and fish stalls are being set up by abetting the Periyar Vaikkal. Waste from these stalls are being dumped at the temple land and the water channel. Due to this, foul smell started to emanate from the channel and land. Though the court had directed the block development officer of the Madurai East panchayat union to clean and maintain the channel periodically, no steps were taken to comply with the order due to which it still remains polluted. She further stated that the stalls are still allowed to function by the BDO and president of Y Othakadai village panchayat. Except for putting up a board stating that the land belongs to the temple, no steps were taken by the authorities to maintain it. Since no steps were taken on the representations sent in this regard, the petitioner moved the high court Madurai bench. A division bench of justice M Sathyanarayanan and justice P Rajamanickam ordered notice to the authorities and adjourned the case to August 13 to be heard along with the suo motu petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-warns-officials-over-non-compliance-of-order/articleshow/77272272.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Chandigarh||3 new ministers inducted into HP cabinet, CM hints at reshuffle||Shimla: Three new ministers were inducted into the Jai Ram Thakur-led BJP government in Himachal Pradesh at a simple ceremony on Thursday. Rakesh Pathania, 55, Sukhram Chaudhary, 56, and Rajinder Garg, 54 – all first-timers -- were sworn in by Governor Bandaru Dattatreya at Raj Bhawan. After the cabinet expansion, Thakur, while addressing media persons, hinted at a cabinet reshuffle. He, accompanied by the state BJP president Suresh Kashyap, also introduced the 3 new ministers. The expansion was necessitated following the resignation of food and civil supplies minister Kishan Kapoor, who was elected to the Lok Sabha from Kangra, power minister Anil Sharma and health minister Bipin Parmar, who was appointed as the assembly speaker. Replying to a question on how many ministers in the cabinet were his choice, he promptly said, "All the 11". Describing his cabinet as balanced, he said the development of the state was his priority and a BJP government will be formed once again in 2022. On the lack of representation Mandi and Hamirpur in the council of ministers, he pointed out that the CM is from Mandi district and there is representation from Hamirpur district at the Centre. He said that development in Hamirpur and all other districts is the priority of his government, but there can’t be ministers from all districts due to certain limitations. He said the monsoon session of assembly could be held in September when the Parliament session is likely to be scheduled. He hastened to add that the assembly session would be called in September only if the novel coronavirus cases come down. The CM said there were only two Covid-19 cases in the state when the budget session ended on March 23, but at present there are 1,050 active cases in the state and the entire country is grappling with the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-new-ministers-inducted-into-hp-cabinet-cm-hints-at-reshuffle/articleshow/77272294.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Bhopal||CM asks school education dept to implement NEP||Bhopal: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday asked the MP school education department to take the lead in implementing the new education policy in the state. “As per the NEP, students should be given professional training from Class 6 onwards. The school education department should take necessary steps in this direction and ensure inclusion of arts, music and dance in the school curriculum,” said the CM. He added that the schools should also take online classes for the students during the pandemic, charging only tuition fee form the parents till schools are forced to remain shut. He asked the education minister (independent charge) Inder Singh Parmar to resolve the dispute between private schools and parents. The CM further asked the education minister to make a team that plans implementation of the NEP in the state with special emphasis on practical training so that students may make more informed career choices in the future. The school education department also passed a new order related to online classes for students of pre-primary classes to higher secondary. While earlier, the school education department had banned online classes for students of pre-primary and primary classes, the new order, passed on Thursday allows schools told short online classes for pre-primary students thrice a week, for 30 minutes. For Classes 1 to 8, schools can take 30-45 minute classes in two sessions, five times a week while for Classes 9 to 12 schools have been given permission to organise upto four sessions of 30-45 minutes, six days a week. The order states that schools will have to abide by the orders of the MHRD for online classes, and provide a conscience summary of the weekly classes to the students and ask for their feedback. The schools should also submit the report of the students performance to their parents from time to time. The order further asks schools to support students who do not have smart-phones or laptops or other necessities like internet for online classes, with the help of local volunteers and schools can independently choose the study material for online teaching that is readily available to parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-asks-school-education-dept-to-implement-nep/articleshow/77271006.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Bareilly||Tiger rescue operation at rubber factory suspended due to rains||Bareilly: The forest department has suspended the rescue operation of a tigress living in a defunct rubber factory, 18 km from here, till the monsoon is over. Officials said they will resume operations after a month.The big cat has strayed from Dudhwa's Kishanpur Wildlife Sanctuary and made the forest-like defunct factory complex, spanning over 1,200 acres, home for over four months now. So far, efforts to trap it have failed. Chief conservator of forests, Rohilkhand zone, Lalit Verma, said, “The incessant rains have led to waterlogging in the factory premises. It has affected the tigress' movement. We will resume operations when the weather clears.”According to forest officials, the picture of the tigress was captured by a camera trap after a gap of many days on Tuesday but it has not been sighted since then. “There are days when no picture of tigress or its pugmarks are spotted and we have no idea where it is hiding," said a forest official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/tiger-rescue-operation-at-rubber-factory-suspended-due-to-rains/articleshow/77267139.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
July 31, 2020||Amaravati||KRMB pulls up Andhra Pradesh, stops its lift project||HYDERABAD: In what could come as a relief to Telangana government caught in a water war with neighbouring Telugu state, the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) has directed Andhra Pradesh to not go ahead with the tendering process of Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme (RLIS). KRMB has also found fault with AP government for granting administrative sanction to construct new projects on Krishna without taking prior approvals from the Central Water Commission (CWC) and the Apex Council. The AP government had recently called for tenders to draw 3 tmc water daily from Pothireddypadu head regulator on Krishna basin as part of RLIS, much to the chagrin of Telangana. KRMB member Harikesh Meena on Wednesday wrote a letter to AP’s special chief secretary (irrigation), contending that they cannot construct new projects illegally after Telangana raised objections. Censuring the AP government for giving administrative sanction to RLIS, the board said it was in violation of (section 84, para 7) the conditions as stipulated in the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014. The board also made it clear that a detailed project report (DPR) should be submitted to the CWC if AP wants to take up any new projects and also take permission from the Apex Council. “The actions taken by the AP government, which are in violation of the terms, will be viewed as violation of the Act itself,” KRMB said. The opposition parties in Telangana had already kicked up a furore over AP taking up RLIS and planning to divert 3 tmc daily. Later, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had also joined issue and said his government would not keep quiet if AP draws water illegally. In the meantime, the AP government issued a tender notice for taking up RLIS work on July 15. The Telangana government reacted after 10 days and wrote a letter to KRMB raising a strong objection on the tendering process. In the letter to KRMB on July 25, Telangana irrigation engineer-in-chief C Muralidhar argued that the tenders called by AP were in violation of the Reorganisation Act. He also pointed out how the lift irrigation project would adversely affect other projects of Telangana in Krishna basin. Telangana pointed out that AP issued a GO on May 5, giving the administrative sanction for the LI project. Following objections from Telangana, KRMB sent a letter to AP on July 1, urging it to furnish copies of the DPR of the new project. AP, however, did not comply with KRMB’s orders and instead went ahead with the tendering process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/krmb-pulls-up-ap-stops-its-lift-project/articleshow/77272769.cms||Koride Mahesh
July 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 30 ampules of spurious injections were sold for Rs 1.35 lakh||AHMEDABAD: Investigators probing the spurious tocilizumab injection racket, during their interrogation of one of the five persons arrested, Harsh Thakor of Chandkheda , discovered that he was into bodybuilding and had bought boxes of steroid injections, containing ten ampules each, from Nilesh Laliwala. Laliwala had got them from Sohel Tai of Surat, for Rs 7,000. Thakor then removed the original packing of the injections, Decagen 250 or nandrolone decanoate. He created and pasted the misleading labels and sent three boxes to Ashish and Akshay Shah, medical store owners, for Rs 80,000. They in turn sold three boxes to a single customer for Rs 1.35 lakh, without a bill. Crime branch sources said the Shah brothers had sold one another box to another customer for Rs 30,000, but the customer found it to be spurious and destroyed it. Special commissioner of police, crime branch, Ajay Tomar, said that the accused knew fully well that these spurious injections if administered to Covid-19 patients could cause death. A doctor to whom the customer took the injections immediately recognized them as spurious and reported the matter to FDCA, causing the whole racket to be exposed. Crime branch sources said that Harsh Thakor and Sohel Tai are in police custody while Ashish and Akshay Shah are in detention. Nilesh Laliwala has been sent to judicial custody as his remand period ended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/30-ampules-of-spurious-injections-were-sold-for-rs-1-35l/articleshow/77271046.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Video of Speaker, CM's son goes viral, BJP demands Joshi to quit||JAIPUR: A video of a conversation between Speaker C P Joshi and chief minister Ashok Gehlot's son Vaibhav has gone viral in which Joshi was heard talking about a close shave of the government. The speaker was heard saying that if 30 MLAs had gone, the situation would have been tough. Initially former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, who had engineered a rebellion in Congress Legislature Party with 19 MLAs, had claimed that he had 30 MLAs with him and the Gehlot government had become minority. The purported discussion between the two can be heard with Joshi saying, “Nothing could have been done had 30 MLAs left the camp. Then, you could have done nothing and they could have toppled the government.” Vaibhav is heard saying in the video that the situation now is similar to the one before the Rajya Sabha polls. The Congress MLAs were shifted to a hotel before Rajya Sabha polls after chief minister got a tip-off of a rebellion by Pilot that time. A video of a conversation between Speaker CP Joshi and chief minister Ashok Gehlot's son Vaibhav has gone viral in… https://t.co/auQzdwiLgh— TOI Jaipur (@TOIJaipurNews) 1596170556000The video was shot at Joshi’s residence when Vaibhav Gehlot went to wish him on his birthday on Wednesday. Vaibhav and Joshi enjoy a special relation as he succeeded Joshi to the post of RCA president while Joshi is his mentor. Meanwhile, the BJP has insisted that the Speaker should resign on moral grounds as he appeared to be biased in the video. Rajasthan political crisis live updatesPoonia seeks Speaker’s resignationState BJP president Satish Poonia said, “The Speaker is not talking to any ordinary person but to the son of Ashok Gehlot. In such a situation, it is clear that he is not impartial but supporting the Congress.” Poonia termed it as unconstitutional and demanded his resignation. He said it was better the speaker himself clarified on the veracity of the video. He said in order to maintain the speaker’s impartiality and integrity, it is not suitable for him to continue in the post. Read AlsoAshok Gehlot camp MLAs to be shifted to JaisalmerThe MLAs of the Ashok Gehlot camp, who have been staying at a hotel on the Jaipur- Delhi Highway amid the ongoing political crisis in Rajasthan, will be shifted to Jaisalmer on Friday, Congress sources said. The MLAs will be shifted after the Congress Legislature Party meeting in the hotel, the“Speaker C P Joshi seems more concerned about saving the government. His inclination towards the ruling party is evident in the video which is against the constitutional post he is holding. Speaker is supposed to be a neutral post,” Poonia said. Speaking on convening the session from August 14 in the midst of Corona spurt, he said the government will be solely responsible for any infection of the members. He said convening the session with threat and intimidation of the governor is against democratic tradition. Watch Rajasthan: Video of assembly Speaker, CM's son goes viral, BJP demands CP Joshi's resignation||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/video-of-speaker-cms-son-goes-viral-bjp-demands-joshi-to-quit/articleshow/77272292.cms||Joychen Joseph
July 31, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Bisalpur water pipeline may hamper proposed elevated road at Govind Marg||JAIPUR: The underground pipeline laid to supply Bisalpur water may cause a hindrance to construction of the ambitious elevated road project, proposed to ease traffic congestion. It was revealed during the pre-feasibility survey, carried out by a private firm. A senior official said, “As shifting a water pipeline from the area is a herculean task, the JDA would explore other possibilities. Digging and piling in the area will not be possible as it could damage the pipeline.” As the elevated corridor is proposed on a narrow stretch, the possibility to change the alignment also looks bleak. “The appointed firm is likely to submit its pre-feasibility report in September. After examining the report a decision will be taken whether to take a step forward and prepare the detailed project report (DPR) of the project or not. There are many houses and commercial establishments, diversion of alignment at present looks difficult,” added the official. An official claimed, construction of elevated road at Govind Marg was proposed as previous studies stated that increasing traffic load can cause major problems in the near future. Currently, on this stretch, traffic is multiple times than the carrying capacity of the road during peak hours. Due to this, the speed of the vehicles here is between 10 and 30 kmph on average. “Traffic is being operated on this road more than two and a half times the capacity. The JDA has counted around 10 thousand PCUs (passenger car units) in the busiest hours despite the fact that the capacity of one lane is estimated at 1,100 PCUs. According to this, two and a half times more traffic travels on this road regularly,” added the official This is the reason that average speed of vehicles is reduced considerably during peak hours. On the Gurudwara intersection, the PCU count on this particular stretch is close to 49,000, while the PCU count is approaching 98,200 on the entire road. An official said, “The length of the elevated corridor would be approximately 2.2km. The problem is that the pipeline is laid in majority of the stretch,” said a source||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bisalpur-water-pipeline-may-hamper-proposed-elevated-road-at-govind-marg/articleshow/77272296.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Delhi||SC seeks feedback from stakeholders on Unitech revival||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Friday allowed all stakeholders in Unitech Group, including homebuyers, to file suggestions on a revival plan proposed by the Centre-appointed independent board of directors as per which no buyer will be refunded money and all projects are to be completed in a phased manner within four years. As the lawyers for various parties told a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah that they had not been given the resolution plan filed by the Unitech board, the court requested advocate Pawanshree Agrawal, the amicus curiae, to put the plan on the web portal created to address the grievances of its homebuyers. The court granted 10 days’ time to all stakeholders to file their suggestions to Agrawal who will place them before the court. It also said the compiled suggestions be given to the Unitech board and posted the case after two weeks. The new board of directors, which was appointed on SC’s direction, has assured that it will complete all housing and commercial projects of the real estate company within four years in a phased manner and hand over possession to over 15,000 buyers who had invested their money almost a decade back. In an affidavit, the group’s chairman and managing director, Yudhvir Singh Malik, a retired IAS officer, said homebuyers should not be allowed to get refund due to the cash crunch faced by the company and that they should be asked to clear their dues to complete construction. The estimated construction cost is Rs 5,000 crore and but in case construction is not carried out, refunds will amount to nearly Rs 11,173 crore, which is not a viable option, he said. He had also urged the court to waive off penalty and interest component from the Rs 8,063 crore demanded by Noida and Greater Noida authorities. Terming the financial position of the group as “dismal”, the plan said the company had a huge liability of more than Rs 28,000 crore while its realisable current assets as per books of accounts was approximately Rs 3,700 crore. The liability includes outstanding dues of banks/ financial institutions to the tune of Rs 5,413 crore and Rs 10,456 crore to various government authorities. The new management said it was not advisable to wind up the company by selling its assets as the homebuyers, creditors and all stakeholders would only be getting only a miniscule percentage of their claims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sc-seeks-feedback-from-stakeholders-on-unitech-revival/articleshow/77293559.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Shimla||Scientists discover 70 new species of alpine plants in Rohtang, Manali||MANALI: For the first time, scientists have discovered nearly 70 species of alpine plants, including some rare and endangered species, at Rohtang area of Manali. Only 50 plant species have been recorded in the area till date. The area around Rohtang, including along the highway, is covered with wild medicinal flowers. It has been decades since the area witnessed such prolific growth of flora. Scientists feel this has a lot to do with reduced tourist pressure, limited vehicular movement and reduction of other anthropogenic activities. Blue poppy (meconopsis aculeata), known as “queen of Himalayan flowers,” has been found in abundance around Rohtang. Scientists say more species of great potential for the state and country have been found in the area and are under observation. K S Kanwal, a scientist with GB Pant National Institute of Himalayan Environment (GBPNIHE), who specialises in environment impact assessment, said he and his team recorded around 70 species in Rohtang. “Many of them are medicinal herbs like picrorhiza kurroa (kadu), aconitum heterophyllum, rheum emodi, bergenia stracheyi, achillea millefolium, rhododendron anthopogon and anemone obtusiloba. It is a great sign that the endangered blue poppy was recorded in good numbers. Examination of species is still continuing,” he said. Kanwal noted decreased tourist and vehicular movement in Rohtang area in recent years first due to the intervention of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and now due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “Less anthropogenic activities have created favourable conditions for growth of alpine plants in Rohtang. Himachal regional centre of GBPNIHE is implementing a project with the support of the mountain division of the institute for in-situ conservation of threatened plants of alpine and sub-alpine areas of Himachal Pradesh,” he said. Besides areas of wilderness, flowers have also bloomed in places where the pressure of tourists had snuffed out any nascent vegetation. Scientists conducted a similar study 10 years back but noticed less than 50 species. The study is on. JC Kuniyal, head of the centre for environmental assessment and climate change at Uttarakhand centre of the institute, who has conducted various environment related studies in Rohtang over the last 26 years, said he has never seen such luxurious growth of plants and flowers. “I received photos from scientist K S Kanwal. This is amazing. Intervention of NGT, supported by lockdown and low pollution has reflected richness in plant diversity on Rohtang Pass. G B Pant institute had also alerted the NGT about pressing environmental issues in Rohtang and the tribunal took some tough decisions to save the local ecology,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/rohtang-blooms-as-scientists-find-nearly-70-plant-species/articleshow/77272303.cms||Suresh Sharma
July 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Centre failed to resolve T and AP’s water dispute, says KCR||Hyderabad: Just days before the Union jal shakti ministry’s scheduled meeting of the Apex Council to resolve water disputes between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, the TRS government has attacked the Centre, saying it has completely failed in its responsibility of referring water issues to a tribunal. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Thursday also directed chief secretary Somesh Kumar to write to the ministry to defer the Apex Council meeting to a later date, after August 20. CM KCR on Thursday held a review meeting with the chief secretary, irrigation officials, experts and retired engineers in the wake of intimation on the Apex Council meeting. The CM expressed displeasure over the indifferent attitude of the Centre in resolving water disputes between Telangana and AP since 2014. “Whenever a new state is created, it is the responsibility of the jal shakti ministry to ensure smooth sharing of water between the two states. If there are any unresolved issues, the Centre has to refer the issues to a tribunal for resolving them as per Section 13 of the AP Reorganization Act, 2014. The Telangana government has been asking the Centre to refer water disputes between Telangana and AP to a tribunal. Unfortunately, the Centre did not pay heed to requests of Telangana and completely failed on this,” the officials and experts, who participated in the meeting, opined. They said the disputes over water should be resolved legally as “friction between the two states is not good for both Telugu states”. Meanwhile, Telangana has decided to continue its fight to get the state’s rightful share in Godavari and Krishna water and complete the Palamuru-Rangareddy and Dindi lift irrigation projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/centre-failed-to-resolve-t-and-aps-water-dispute-says-kcr/articleshow/77271051.cms||Koride Mahesh
July 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Second batch of video lessons soon||Coimbatore: Class XII students in government schools will be given the second batch of video lessons soon.Schools should get network and other facilities ready to download and copy the videos to students’ laptops, a communication from the Tamil Nadu State Council of Educational Research and Training (TNSCERT) said. As many as 297 videos on 30 subjects including Microbiology, Textile Technology, Communicative English, Home Science, Geography, Biochemistry and Zoology will be made available from July 30, it said.The council instructed HMs to download the files from TNSCERT website into pen drive, call a limited number of students to the school in turns and copy the files to their laptops.Textbooks and the first batch of videos were given to the students on July 15.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/second-batch-of-video-lessons-soon/articleshow/77271043.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Jodhpur||Collector grants Indian citizenship to 7 Pakistan migrants in Jaipur||JAIPUR: District Collector Antar Singh Nehra on Thursday granted Indian citizenship to seven Pakistani migrants. He handed over the citizenship certificates to all of them. Those who received certificates of Indian citizenship included Kalyan, Roshan Kumar, Sugna Devi, Anita Devi, Shabreen, Sikander Kumar and Mohni. Kumar, who belonged to Rahim Yar Khan district in the Bahawalpur division of Punjab province in Pakistan, got settled in Jaipur about 20 years ago with his relatives. “Even though I was working here, not being Indian citizen came in the way of availing of the benefits of government schemes,” said Kumar. His sister Anita, who is engaged in tailoring work, said she will now be able to purchase her own house here. On the occasion, Nehra congratulated them for having received the certificates of Indian citizenship and wished that they became responsible citizens and extended their support in the country’s development. Nehra said, “Online applications are accepted for granting citizenship and online certificates are issued. Pending applications are also being processed promptly and the remaining certificates will be issued soon.” District Collector Antar Singh Nehra on Thursday also directed that all revenue-related works pending at the tehsil, sub-division and other revenue offices should be disposed as per rules and in a time-bound manner. He said unnecessary postponement and delay will be taken seriously, responsibility of the officers will be fixed and strict action will be taken against them. He also instructed that all revenue-related matters should be disposed as per the revenue records. Meanwhile, an exhibition on Covid awareness wich started on July 1 has been extended till August 31. The Collector also asked the He asked the medical department officials to expedite the vaccination work in the district by setting up vaccination camps at various places. He also asked them to conduct door-to-door immunization as per requirement. He also directed ICDS officers to carry out the task of identification of malnourished children in the Anganwadis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/collector-grants-indian-citizenship-to-7-pak-migrants/articleshow/77277723.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Udaipur||Collector grants Indian citizenship to 7 Pakistan migrants in Jaipur||JAIPUR: District Collector Antar Singh Nehra on Thursday granted Indian citizenship to seven Pakistani migrants. He handed over the citizenship certificates to all of them. Those who received certificates of Indian citizenship included Kalyan, Roshan Kumar, Sugna Devi, Anita Devi, Shabreen, Sikander Kumar and Mohni. Kumar, who belonged to Rahim Yar Khan district in the Bahawalpur division of Punjab province in Pakistan, got settled in Jaipur about 20 years ago with his relatives. “Even though I was working here, not being Indian citizen came in the way of availing of the benefits of government schemes,” said Kumar. His sister Anita, who is engaged in tailoring work, said she will now be able to purchase her own house here. On the occasion, Nehra congratulated them for having received the certificates of Indian citizenship and wished that they became responsible citizens and extended their support in the country’s development. Nehra said, “Online applications are accepted for granting citizenship and online certificates are issued. Pending applications are also being processed promptly and the remaining certificates will be issued soon.” District Collector Antar Singh Nehra on Thursday also directed that all revenue-related works pending at the tehsil, sub-division and other revenue offices should be disposed as per rules and in a time-bound manner. He said unnecessary postponement and delay will be taken seriously, responsibility of the officers will be fixed and strict action will be taken against them. He also instructed that all revenue-related matters should be disposed as per the revenue records. Meanwhile, an exhibition on Covid awareness wich started on July 1 has been extended till August 31. The Collector also asked the He asked the medical department officials to expedite the vaccination work in the district by setting up vaccination camps at various places. He also asked them to conduct door-to-door immunization as per requirement. He also directed ICDS officers to carry out the task of identification of malnourished children in the Anganwadis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/collector-grants-indian-citizenship-to-7-pak-migrants/articleshow/77277722.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Mumbai||BMC seeks 20 acres for 5,000-bed hospital||MUMBAI: BMC on Thursday floated an expression of interest (EOI) for acquisition of 20 acres to construct a 5,000-bed hospital as Covid-19 exposed the need for robust medical infrastructure. BMC invited proposals from land owners/developers having a clear and marketable title for construction of the hospital. A Covid task-force meeting with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and BMC commissioner I S Chahal on July 20 discussed establishment of the hospital to cater to many patients. A committee constituted by Chahal will decide on compensation to the land owner/developer but the rate offered by the interested land owner shall initially remain valid for a minimum 45 days from the date of opening of EOI. Civic officials said the hospital has to be in the suburbs, to serve those in Mumbai and Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR). It also has to be close to either the eastern or western expressway, abutting a development plan road not less than 90 feet, for direct access. On why the civic body was not considering vacant land it owns, especially large plots of octroi nakas, a senior official said, “Many civic plots already have reservations that were put in the development plan. Those having hospital reservation are not such huge land parcels that we require now. While BMC did take steps in augmenting health infrastructure and set up jumbo facilities at various places at the beginning of Covid-19 crisis, large-scale requirement of beds permanently can be taken care of by constructing a large hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-seeks-20-acres-for-5k-bed-hospital/articleshow/77271232.cms||Richa Pinto
July 31, 2020||Ajmer||Collector grants Indian citizenship to 7 Pakistan migrants in Jaipur||JAIPUR: District Collector Antar Singh Nehra on Thursday granted Indian citizenship to seven Pakistani migrants. He handed over the citizenship certificates to all of them. Those who received certificates of Indian citizenship included Kalyan, Roshan Kumar, Sugna Devi, Anita Devi, Shabreen, Sikander Kumar and Mohni. Kumar, who belonged to Rahim Yar Khan district in the Bahawalpur division of Punjab province in Pakistan, got settled in Jaipur about 20 years ago with his relatives. “Even though I was working here, not being Indian citizen came in the way of availing of the benefits of government schemes,” said Kumar. His sister Anita, who is engaged in tailoring work, said she will now be able to purchase her own house here. On the occasion, Nehra congratulated them for having received the certificates of Indian citizenship and wished that they became responsible citizens and extended their support in the country’s development. Nehra said, “Online applications are accepted for granting citizenship and online certificates are issued. Pending applications are also being processed promptly and the remaining certificates will be issued soon.” District Collector Antar Singh Nehra on Thursday also directed that all revenue-related works pending at the tehsil, sub-division and other revenue offices should be disposed as per rules and in a time-bound manner. He said unnecessary postponement and delay will be taken seriously, responsibility of the officers will be fixed and strict action will be taken against them. He also instructed that all revenue-related matters should be disposed as per the revenue records. Meanwhile, an exhibition on Covid awareness wich started on July 1 has been extended till August 31. The Collector also asked the He asked the medical department officials to expedite the vaccination work in the district by setting up vaccination camps at various places. He also asked them to conduct door-to-door immunization as per requirement. He also directed ICDS officers to carry out the task of identification of malnourished children in the Anganwadis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/collector-grants-indian-citizenship-to-7-pak-migrants/articleshow/77277725.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Jaipur||Collector grants Indian citizenship to 7 Pakistan migrants in Jaipur||JAIPUR: District Collector Antar Singh Nehra on Thursday granted Indian citizenship to seven Pakistani migrants. He handed over the citizenship certificates to all of them. Those who received certificates of Indian citizenship included Kalyan, Roshan Kumar, Sugna Devi, Anita Devi, Shabreen, Sikander Kumar and Mohni. Kumar, who belonged to Rahim Yar Khan district in the Bahawalpur division of Punjab province in Pakistan, got settled in Jaipur about 20 years ago with his relatives. “Even though I was working here, not being Indian citizen came in the way of availing of the benefits of government schemes,” said Kumar. His sister Anita, who is engaged in tailoring work, said she will now be able to purchase her own house here. On the occasion, Nehra congratulated them for having received the certificates of Indian citizenship and wished that they became responsible citizens and extended their support in the country’s development. Nehra said, “Online applications are accepted for granting citizenship and online certificates are issued. Pending applications are also being processed promptly and the remaining certificates will be issued soon.” District Collector Antar Singh Nehra on Thursday also directed that all revenue-related works pending at the tehsil, sub-division and other revenue offices should be disposed as per rules and in a time-bound manner. He said unnecessary postponement and delay will be taken seriously, responsibility of the officers will be fixed and strict action will be taken against them. He also instructed that all revenue-related matters should be disposed as per the revenue records. Meanwhile, an exhibition on Covid awareness wich started on July 1 has been extended till August 31. The Collector also asked the He asked the medical department officials to expedite the vaccination work in the district by setting up vaccination camps at various places. He also asked them to conduct door-to-door immunization as per requirement. He also directed ICDS officers to carry out the task of identification of malnourished children in the Anganwadis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/collector-grants-indian-citizenship-to-7-pak-migrants/articleshow/77272305.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Madurai||Madras HC orders re-postmortem in alleged custody torture case||MADURAI: Observing that it is not proper to conduct postmortem during the night hours, the Madras high court on Thursday directed the Tirunelveli medical college to conduct re-postmortem of a farmer, who died due to alleged custodial torture by the forest officials in Tenkasi district. The court was hearing a petition filed by Palammal of Vaagaikulam, who sought a CB-CID probe into the death of her husband, Anaikkarai Muthu, 70. The petitioner in her miscellaneous petition sought to conduct re-postmortem. The grievance of the petitioner is that the postmortem was conducted in the night hours by violating the norms. Since the case is a sensitive custodial death, there was no urgency to conduct it during the night. Justice R Pongiappan said that a judgement delivered by a division bench of this court in 2019, held that if night postmortems are permitted, there may be a chance for miscarriage of justice and also it would lead to confusion over the cause of death. The judge further observed that Volume I of the Tamil Nadu Medical Code also says that completing the postmortem in the night hours is not advisable. Citing as to why the postmortem should be conducted within the presence of sunlight and not during night, the judge said the colour of the injury in artificial illumination appears purple rather than red, and there is no mention of purple injury and wound as per forensic science. The judge, however, said that in some emergencies and special occasions such as terrorism or urgent events like disasters, doctors perform postmortem during the night and evening time. In the present case, the reason stated by the authorities that the postmortem was performed during the night to avoid law and order problem, does not have any substance, said the judge. Hence, the judge directed the head of the forensic medicine and associate professor of the department at Tirunelveli medical college to perform the re-postmortem along with another expert - head of the forensic department at Tuticorin medical college, as requested by the petitioner. The judge said the team of doctors can perform the postmortem between the time gap of sunrise and sunset and the same should be videographed. Since the objection of the petitioner was only on the apprehension expressed in the petition, the judge directed her to accept the body as her grievances are redressed by passing this order and disposed of the miscellaneous petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-orders-re-postmortem-in-alleged-custody-torture-case/articleshow/77272290.cms||Kaushik Kannan
July 31, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Covid, silver prices take sheen off Cuttack’s Durga Puja tableaux||Bhubaneswar: This year, the people of Silver City Cuttack are unlikely to see the iconic silver tableaux that form a mesmerising backdrop to the idols during Durga Puja. Not only is there a cloud of uncertainty over public celebrations, the pandemic and the high silver prices have hit the trend of puja committees unveiling new silver tableaux with fanfare ahead of Puja. At least five puja committees of Cuttack were working on silver tableaux for Durga Puja this year but they have all set aside their plans due to the lockdown and the escalation in silver prices. Currently, the city has more than 25 puja committees that boast of possessing silver filigree tableaux. “We have finished 80% of the work on our tableau over the past two years, but we need more funds for the remaining bit. In this situation, we cannot ask people of our locality for donations. Also, artisans are afraid to step out of their homes because of the pandemic,” said Lingaraj Barik (40), secretary, Mohammadia Bazar puja committee, which was building a tableau with 140kg silver. The Ramgarh puja committee, which is working on a 200kg silver tableau, is slightly better off. “Although we will not be able to complete the work this year, we have already bought 90% of the silver required. Otherwise, our budget of Rs 1 crore would have escalated massively,” said Rabindra Narayan Bhanja (70), secretary of the puja committee, which started the work around two to three years ago. For those committees that already have a tableau, the uncertainty over public celebrations means that the Puja, if held, will be a very small affair. “We might do a symbolic puja. In that case, we will not display our silver tableau,” said Debasish Ray (42), president, Choudhury Bazar puja committee, which installed the city’s first silver tableau in 1956. The backdrops are designed by expert craftspersons, who have spent years in the trade. “Usually I keep tradition in mind while recommending or altering the designs,” said Kedar Behera (67), who designed the 500kg silver backdrop of Haripur-Dolamundei in the city, besides that of many others. Residents and businessmen voluntarily contribute money or silver for the tableaux that are synonymous with Durga Puja in Cuttack. With silver prices touching a record high of Rs 66,000 per kg from the Rs 40,000 per kg of four months ago, funds are difficult to come by. “There was a steady flow of money for our tableau but that has dried up. We had to stop the work,” said Tapas Praharaj (47), secretary of Kafla Bazar puja committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/covid-silver-prices-take-sheen-off-cuttacks-durga-puja-tableaux/articleshow/77269498.cms||Arunika Mohapatra
July 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fund crunch: AMC reviews big projects||Ahmedabad: The state government has directed the AMC to prioritize big projects in accordance with the income of the civic body. Standing committee chairman Amul Bhatt said that the AMC was evaluating the proposals cleared in the budget for 2020-21. “We have received instruction from the government that the big projects have to be taken up in accordance with the income. We are reviewing all projects. However, the projects of road resurfacing, cleanliness, drainage and drinking water will not be affected.” Bhatt said that big projects will have to be put on hold as of now. He said there is a drastic drop in the income of the AMC, and it has no option but to prioritize big projects. The standing committee on Thursday cleared Rs 40 crore for drainage, drinking water and road resurfacing works in Bodakdev, Vasna, Paldi and Gota. Several projects of pumping stations and drainage lines, and a new building for Gomtipur municipal school were also approved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fund-crunch-amc-reviews-big-projects/articleshow/77271048.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Business losses drive mill owner to suicide||Coimbatore: A textile mill owner from Karumathampatti killed himself allegedly due to monetary loss in his business, police said. The body of D Vijayakumar, 43, was found hanging at his mill premises by an employee. He was an avid car racer too.The deceased was staying with his family on Nanjundapuram Road. He had incurred a huge loss in running his spinning mill at Karumathampatti and this drove him to depression, police said.On Tuesday morning, he went to his mill as usual. Around 1.30 pm, his manager Ethiraj went to his chamber and found Vijayakumar hanging from the ceiling. Ethiraj alerted Vijayakumar’s brother-in-law V Santhoshkumar, 29, an advocate. He was rushed to a private hospital on Avinashi Road where doctors declared him dead.A case of ununatural death was registered at Sulur police station. Following a postmortem, the body was handed over to the family in the evening.A preliminary inquiry revealed that apart from his spinning mill, Vijayakumar was a car racing enthusiast and had owned a team that participated in a racing event at Kari Motor speedway at Chettipalayam in the city in 2012.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/business-losses-drive-mill-owner-to-suicide/articleshow/77271030.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Madurai||HC seeks govt report on setting up of old age homes||Madurai: The principal secretary of the social welfare department has been directed to submit a status report with regard to establishing old age homes by the government as per provisions of the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act. The Madras high court was hearing a batch of public interest litigations which sought effective implementation of the Act and Tamil Nadu Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Rules, 2009. The counsel for one of the petitioners submitted that as per Section 19 of the Act, the state government is under statutory obligation to establish old age homes in all the districts. However, no steps were taken in this regard. A division bench of justice M Sathyanarayanan and justice P Rajamanickam observed that as long as the statutes remain, the state is under obligation to strictly adhere and comply with it. Since the Act is a benevolent legislation, more attention is required to comply with its statutory provision. Hence, they gave the direction to the principal secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-govt-report-on-setting-up-of-old-age-homes/articleshow/77272287.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Liquor sales in Telangana see a dip, but revenues hit new high||HYDERABAD: Telangana registered an additional Rs 400 crore profit from liquor sales — over the corresponding period last year -- despite the pandemic. Though the volume of sales dropped, the government made sizeable gains thanks to prices of various brands going up, fall in arrack sales and guzzlers from neighbouring Andhra Pradesh buying liquor here. Till July 27, liquor sales across the state were to the tune of Rs 2,000 crore. During the same period last year, the sales were Rs 1,600 crore. While liquor shop owners are not cheering much as their profit margins have come down, the excise department is laughing all the way to the bank. A major portion of the sales is attributed to tipplers from neighbouring AP, which shares borders with Nalgonda and Khammam districts, crossing over and buying liquor here. Nalgonda recorded Rs 186 crore sales in July alone, while Khammam wasn’t far behind with Rs 169 crore. “These border districts have a major sales volume, thanks to the higher rates of liquor in AP. Liquor lovers from AP buy their drink from these two districts. In some instances, our officials have seized the liquor being transported illegally,” an excise official said. Despite the euphoria over the gains made since last year, a cursory look at the sales volume gives a different picture. Only 19 lakh cases of beer and 25 lakh Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) cases have been sold so far this year. Last year, around this time, 38 lakh beer cases and 27 lakh IMFL cases were sold. “Many people are not coming forward to buy liquor because of increased prices and their salaries getting slashed. In fact, we are feeling the pinch to run the shop owing to a very high licence fee,” a liquor shop owner, not wanting to be named, said. Also, with lakhs of migrant workers shifting back to their native states, the liquor sales have gone down further. Apart from the high licence fee, several shop owners said the biggest dent they suffered was due to dip in beer sales by almost 70%. With beer rates going up by a minimum of Rs 30 per bottle in all sizes, there weren’t many takers, the traders pointed out. Excise minister V Srinivas Goud, however, contested the shop owners’ claims. “If the prices are steep and they had suffered heavy losses, many of the shops by now should have closed in Telangana. But, not a single shop has been shut ever since we revised the liquor rates,” he said. Assuring the traders, the minister said: “If any one shop owner comes to us with a plea that they have lost business, we will review the price mechanism.” He further said the revenues had gone up after the department launched a crackdown on arrack shops in Warangal, Bhupalpally, Nagarkurnool and other districts. Meanwhile, liquor lovers continue to feel the pinch. “My monthly spend on beer and other brands was around Rs 1,000. With increased costs, it has gone up to Rs 1,500-Rs 2,000 a month now,” KV Ravi, an agent with a city-based real estate company, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/liquor-sales-in-t-see-a-dip-but-revenues-hit-new-high/articleshow/77272302.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 31, 2020||Vadodara||One more detained in DeMo notes case||Vadodara: Panchmahal police detained one of the prime accused involved in storing demonetised currency amounting to over Rs 4.76crore in face value in Godhra. Two persons were detained earlier on Tuesday. According to sources in Panchmahal police, the seizure was made based on a tip off received from the state Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS). A large stash of cash was seized from Surat too in a similar way on Wednesday. Sources said that while Farooq Ishak Chhota and Zuber Idris Hayat had been detained on Tuesday, Zuber’s father Idris Hayat escaped from Godhra. Farooq, Zuber and Idris were allowed to go after questioning as they had only been detained under the Criminal Procedures Code for possession of suspicious items. Police sources said that the accused could be arrested formally too at a later stage after completing legal formalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/one-more-detained-in-demo-notes-case/articleshow/77267962.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Bhubaneswar||‘Focus on regional languages will help undo years of neglect’||BHUBANESWAR: Linguists hailed the National Education Policy (NEP) move to promote, strengthen and preserve Indian classical and regional languages at the same time giving emphasis on Sanskrit. Steps like giving primary education in mother tongue or regional language, creating digital content and using local languages as medium of instruction in higher education will have large scale impact on developing and strengthening our languages, experts believed. However, there is a need to create lot of awareness among people to get them attracted to their mother tongue or regional languages, they pointed out. Jatin Nayak, a former professor of English at Utkal University said, “This has been a recommendation of the Kothari Commission. Regional languages should be the languages of knowledge. In countries like Japan, China and Germany, the primary medium of instruction is in their mother tongue. It is very natural that we must read in the language we speak and think. What we have been doing is terribly unnatural and at least an attempt has been made to correct this historic blunder.” Regarding the over-dependency on English language, Nayak said, “English has grown at the expense of the mother tongue but this step in the NEP should not be seen as a threat to English.” According to the NEP, higher education institutes can use mother tongue or local language as a medium of instruction and can offer programmes bilingually. “It is not that attempts have not been made earlier. There were initiatives to prepare text books in higher classes in regional languages, but it was discontinued as there were few takers. Making mother tongue the mode of instruction is very crucial and everyone, including the younger generation, must appreciate and follow it,” said author and academician, Dash Benhur. The NEP also envisages to set up an Indian Institution of Translation and Interpretation (IITI) to ensure preservation of Indian languages. Besides, e-content will be developed in eight regional languages including Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, Malayalam, Gujarati, Marathi, Odia and Bengali. “No doubt it is a great step to improve mother tongue from the primary level and give it emphasis in higher education as well. But it will take some time to overcome the years of neglect we have done to our languages,” said writer Gayatribala Panda. The NEP has also proposed that universities and institutes studying classical languages and literature will collect, preserve, translate and study the tens and thousands of manuscripts that have not yet received due attention. Besides, Sanskrit will be mainstreamed and several institutes imparting Sanskrit and Indian languages will be significantly strengthened. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/focus-on-regional-languages-will-help-undo-years-of-neglect/articleshow/77269517.cms||Minati Singha
July 31, 2020||Jaipur||Two die of suicide in Ajmer||Ajmer: In two separate incidents, two people, including a 19-year-old girl committed suicide in Ajmer on Thursday. According to police, Kamaljeet, 41, a resident of Paharganj, came drunk on Thursday morning and closed his room and hanged self from the ceiling. His relatives found him dead after some hours. Police said Kamaljeet was under depression as his father died two days ago. Police sent the body for post-mortem and are investigating. Similarly, Devanshi, 19, a resident of Pancheel committed suicide by hanging in her room. Police said during investigation they found that the deceased was under depression from the last few days. She was studying in first year and was upset due to a family problem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-die-of-suicide-in-ajmer/articleshow/77272301.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Cuttack||Man earns Odisha CM's pat for helping patients||CUTTACK: Book binder Abhimanyu Das of Netaji Nagar has been praised by chief minister Naveen Patnaik over Twitter on Thursday for helping cancer patients at the Acharya Harihar Regional Cancer Centre (AHRCC). His journey started in 2002 when he was bedridden for eight months after a serious road accident. “During that time, I read a lot and came to know from newspapers that many poor patients require monetary help for their treatment. I started helping them when I recovered,” said Abhimanyu. He opted for those suffering from cancer after his mother succumbed to cancer in 1999 after two years of battling it. “Four other family members of mine also died of cancer. I know the pain and suffering and stated serving cancer patients,” added Abhimanyu. For the job, Abhimanyu goes to AHRCC every day at 9.30 am and stays there for five hours. He pays more attention to the poor and the destitute. “I will serve the people till my last breath,” said Das, who has not been deterred by the pandemic. He takes all precaution before visiting the hospital that has reported 130 Covid-19 positive cases. “I wear a PPE kit, face mask and head gear before entering the hospital. I even cremated one body that was lying at he cancer centre for more than 24 hours with no one to claim it,” he added. Earlier also he has cremated bodies of patients and till date the number stands at 1200. “I get lot of satisfaction by helping the needy. It helps me live. I feel unhappy if I have missed out in helping a single cancer patient,” said Abhimanyu. Recently, former cricketer Mohammad Kaif shared Abhimanyu’s story over Twitter for his selfless service to humanity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/man-earns-cm-pat-for-helping-patients/articleshow/77280939.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Senior citizen gets power bill of over Rs 1 lakh for bungalow||MUMBAI: A senior citizen got an electricity bill of over Rs 1 lakh for his bungalow in Mahim for July. The 75-year-old was surprised that despite paying the monthly average for three summer months (around Rs 24,000 each), he got an inflated bill. He is among several consumers in the island city who are demanding rechecking of meters as they suspect faulty readings. Anand Lele told TOI: “Normally, I get a maximum of Rs 30,000 during summer months, but this time I got billed Rs46,000 for May and around Rs 43,000 each for June and July.” He was also billed Rs 31,000 for March and Rs 22,000 for April in the present bill. He said, “This is a burning issue. Pay now, refund later is not acceptable to anyone. BEST should redress my grievance at the earliest.” He was afraid to walk to G North BMC ward office to lodge a complaint for fear of Covid-19. “I am aged, they may push me from one desk to another. I have emailed the divisional engineer and hope to get reply soon,” he said. A senior BEST official said there was nothing wrong with billing in almost all cases. “We can explain to the consumer how consumption units have gone up during lockdown and how bills have been calculated after adjusting estimated billing for April-May-June in the July bill. As for meter-rechecking, as request by consumers, it will not be possible due to staff shortage. But we do recheck meters in serious cases,” the official said, adding, “Wait for a month and check the meter, if the reading is still high, the meter can be rechecked.” D J Panthaky from Grant Road, who got a bill of Rs 24,490, was advised by BEST staff last week to get the meter tested, and it has been replaced temporarily. He is awaiting the final test report. “The disparity in bill was glaring. Very high consumption of units was shown from April to June. It was more than thrice the consumption at my flat during summer in 2019. I suspect something is wrong with the meter,” Panthaky said. Political parties, including BJP, Congress, Shiv Sena and MNS, have submitted petitions on behalf of consumers to BEST and the first redressal camp was held at Sion recently. Consumers are still complaining on social media of threats of disconnection of electricity supply if bills are not paid. “This is not fair. MERC has directed power discoms not to disconnect supply till grievances are resolved. BEST should not send such SMSes to consumers,” said consumer activist Godfrey Pimenta of Watchdog Foundation. BEST officials said there are customer care centres in nine civic wards in the island city besides 10 dedicated email addresses where one can complain. BEST is also offering three EMIs for payment of hefty bills. You can email at customercare@bestundertaking.com for billing issues or tweet, tagging @myBESTElectric||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/senior-citizen-gets-power-bill-of-over-rs1l-for-bungalow/articleshow/77271226.cms||Somit Sen
July 31, 2020||Jaipur||Squatters removed in Kota||KOTA: The anti-encroachment squad led by sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Kanwas, in Kota district removed squatters from 190 bighas between Pesaheda and Aamli in Kanwas subdivision on Thursday. The squad has so far removed encroachments in over 600 bighas of government land that included 75 bighas in Kalmandi village on Wednesday and 230 bighas in Haripura Mangi village. Similarly, UIT Kota removed encroachments from 23.5 bighas worth Rs 8 crore at Rathkankara village in Kota Municipal Corporation area. The drive under Atikraman Mukt Gram Abhyan (encroachment-free village drive) is underway in the area and illegal constructions are being removed, SDM Rajesh Daga said. In another operation on Tuesday, encroachments spread over 230 bighas were removed in Harimangi village. The drive includes removal of encroachment from school sports ground, graveyards and cremation grounds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/squatters-removed-in-kota/articleshow/77272313.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fake drugs: Accused seeks bail||AHMEDABAD: One of the persons accused in the spurious tocilizumab injections racket, Nilesh Laliwala, has sought bail from a sessions court claiming innocence and promising to abide by all conditions to be imposed by the court. Vastrapur police opposed the bail plea with the police inspector submitting an affidavit stating that if Laliwala is granted bail, it could affect the course of investigation and proceedings against his co-accused. The racket was busted after the accused persons sold three packs of spurious drugs to the daughter of a Covid patient admitted to a private hospital in Ahmedabad for Rs 1.35 lakh. When the drug did not have any impact, the treating doctor doubted the efficacy of medicine and an investigation was launched.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fake-drugs-accused-seeks-bail/articleshow/77271093.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Chandigarh||25K smart LED street lights to be installed in Karnal under smart city project||Karnal: As many as 25,000 smart LED lights will be installed in Karnal under the smart city project to make the lighting system smarter and more efficient. The project will have sensors and integrated devices to control street lights. The project tender has been floated and it will be opened by August 15. Under the project, all existing street lights, along with poles, will be replaced with new smart LED lights and poles. The overhead electric cables will also be converted into underground lines. The deadline for completion of the work is seven months after work is allotted. According to an official, use of conventional technology is still the norm for maximum street lights in the city. Street lights simply switch on and off at a fixed time and light intensity remains the same all night. Therefore, they are an important source of power consumption in the city. The new system, he said, will be self-managing. It will adjust its settings on the basis of changes in the local environment, which will help save energy. Nishant Kumar Yadav, deputy commissioner-cum-CEO, Karnal Smart City project said, “To strengthen and make the lighting system smart, sensors and integrated devices will be installed at key points. The tender has already been floated. Work will be completed seven months after allotment. The LED street lights will be linked with the Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC) being set up at the local municipal office,” he added. The team will get an alert message in case of theft and non-working of LED lights. Action will be taken immediately after the team gets a message, the CEO said, adding that the operation and maintenance period will be seven years. Yadav said a detailed baseline survey shall be conducted on the street light infrastructure requirements of the city. With this, dark spots will be identified and new LED lights will be installed. Conventional lights shall be replaced with LED street lights of 40W & 70W LED and smart LED street lights of 90W, 150W and 200W. LED street lights less than 150W shall be connected with feeder based panels and 150W and above shall be connected with individual connectors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/25k-smart-led-street-lights-to-be-installed-in-karnal-under-smart-city-project/articleshow/77272309.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Eid-al-Adha to be low-key affair||Coimbatore: Eid-al-Adha, which will be celebrated on Saturday by Muslims across the district, is likely to be a low-key affair this year due to restrictions induced by the pandemic. The traditional mass prayer at Islamiya School ground, the annual speech by the imam and the much-anticipated biriyani fest may not happen on the same scale like previous years. With mass prayers being banned, prayers are being organized within families in their own homes and biriyani may be replaced with sweets for sharing and distribution, said members of the community.It is an age-old tradition for more than 10,000 Muslims in the city to gather at the Islamiya School ground for an early morning prayer on Eid-al-Adha every year. “Since mass gatherings are not advisable and social distancing has to be maintained, most of us have invited our immediate family members to offer morning prayer in our houses,” said Abdul Hakkim, general secretary of Jamath E Islami Hind. The age-old tradition of buying a goat and dividing it into three portions—one for the family, one for relatives and well-wishers and the third to be distributed among the poor may also not happen this time on a large scale. “We usually send biriyani to our non-Muslim neighbours and well-wishers, but this year, we are scared that it may not be safe to do so. So we plan to send traditional sweets as it is easier to pack and deliver without much contact,” said Hakkim. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/eid-al-adha-to-be-low-key-affair/articleshow/77271076.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Jaipur||‘Dead’ man returns home in Dungarpur after five months||JAIPUR: A 24-year-old man from Chaurasi village of Dungarpur district who went missing in Gujarat and was believed to be dead, shocked everyone while he was found to be alive after five months. The family not only believed he was dead after they were handed over a body having the same tattoo he had, his wife also implicated his two brothers for murder. The story of the young man Ishwar is nothing less than a thrilling Bollywood script. TOI on Thursday spoke to Dhambola police in Gujarat to know the whole story. “He was earning daily wages as labourer at a village near Junagarh in Gujarat. His family from Dungarpur came in the first week of February this year and lodged a missing complaint as they were unable to get in touch with him,” said a senior officer of Dhambola police while talking to TOI over phone. “On February 6 police found a mutilated body which was beyond identification but it had a tattoo on its right hand on which the name Ishar was written. We intimated the family members who were in Dungarpur. The wife after her arrival and his family members after seeing the tattoo and other resemblances identified him to be Ishar and we had given them the body,” said an officer. During the wife of the deceased Ishar suspected that his two brothers could be behind the murder, “The two brothers are in jail on the charges of murder. Now the family has claimed that the man who was believed to be dead is actually alive and they are approaching courts. We have told them to come with Ishwar so that we can do paper formalities,” the officer added. Ishar was living at Khapheda village of of Dhambola police station area in Gujarat. “He has stated that he could not contact the family as his phone was lost and he did not recall any numbers of his home. He had planned a visit at his home in March but due to lockdown he could not move,” police officer added. Ishar visited his sister-in-law’s home on Tuesday and that’s when villagers came to know that he is alive. Watch Rajasthan: 'Dead' man returns home in Dungarpur after five months||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dead-man-returns-home-in-dungarpur-after-five-months/articleshow/77272317.cms||Ashish Mehta
July 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Video lessons, WhatsApp groups keep students engaged||Coimbatore: Government schoolteachers in the district are engaging Class XII students through WhatsApp and online classes.They have formed class-wise WhatsApp groups and subject-wise teachers’ groups for the purpose. In addition to the video lessons produced by the education department, they are also making their own video lessons and PowerPoint presentations.“We are sharing the videos, PPT files and important questions and answers with students. We also conduct a test every week,” a biology teacher in a government school said. “We are conducting half-an-hour to 45-minute classes from 7am using Google Duo so that students who use their parents’ cellphone can log in before parents leave for work,” he told TOI.A chemistry teacher from another government school said the teachers are preparing notes and recording videos. “Those students, who can’t log into online classes, can watch the videos. Teachers have subject-wise groups in which we discuss about the portions,” he said.But not all students possess a cellphone or have access to the internet, teachers said. “Only 50% students have phones and can log into online classes. Some of them use their parents’ phones. Around 20% students don’t have smart phones,” said the biology teacher. When the students were given books and video materials, district school education officials had instructed teachers to view the video lessons, interact with students based on the videos and clear their doubts. They were also directed to cover two lessons a week, conduct weekly tests and give them assignments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/video-lessons-whatsapp-groups-keep-students-engaged/articleshow/77271052.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Project to replenish Noyyal river has promising start||Coimbatore: The public works department (PWD) has launched a project for extension, renovation and modernisation of the Noyyal river system in the district.Work is being carried out at Vellalore anaicut, Chithirai Chavadi Vaikal, Kuniyamuthur Vaikal, Achankulam and Samalapuram lake, a PWD official said. “We are paving cement blocks to prevent soil erosion and to strengthen bunds of canals. Bunds were damaged due to water pressure at places like Ukkadam. Paving with cement blocks is an economic way of preventing it,” he said.Concrete is being applied to the vulnerable portions of the canals to arrest seepage. The lining of channels that branch from anaicuts will also be revamped.PWD had proposed the Rs 230 crore project last year. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami inaugurated it in May. The department had identified 21 damaged anaicuts along the river from Chithirai Chavadi near the river’s origin, till Mannarai in Tirupur for renovation. The stone structures will be replaced with concrete structures. The project is expected to conclude in two years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/project-to-replenish-noyyal-river-has-promising-start/articleshow/77271065.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand Cong demands FIR against state BJP chief for ‘violating’ social distancing norms||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand Congress on Thursday wrote a letter to the Dehradun SSP and SP, demanding an FIR against BJP state chief Bansidhar Bhagat for “violating” the social distancing norms. Recently, Congress state chief Pritam Singh and former chief minister Harish Rawat were booked for allegedly violating the norms while protesting against the Central and state governments for the ongoing political turmoil in Rajasthan. Congress spokesperson Garima Dasauni alleged that Bhagat had gone for a film mahurat shot and “photographs clearly show him not wearing a mask in violation of the social distancing norms”. Police need to act impartially and should do with him what they had done with the Congress leaders, said Dasauni, adding: “The photographs also show the BJP leader standing close to actors and crew members.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-cong-demands-fir-against-state-bjp-chief-for-violating-social-distancing-norms/articleshow/77269520.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 31, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Man earns Odisha CM's pat for helping patients||CUTTACK: Book binder Abhimanyu Das of Netaji Nagar has been praised by chief minister Naveen Patnaik over Twitter on Thursday for helping cancer patients at the Acharya Harihar Regional Cancer Centre (AHRCC). His journey started in 2002 when he was bedridden for eight months after a serious road accident. “During that time, I read a lot and came to know from newspapers that many poor patients require monetary help for their treatment. I started helping them when I recovered,” said Abhimanyu. He opted for those suffering from cancer after his mother succumbed to cancer in 1999 after two years of battling it. “Four other family members of mine also died of cancer. I know the pain and suffering and stated serving cancer patients,” added Abhimanyu. For the job, Abhimanyu goes to AHRCC every day at 9.30 am and stays there for five hours. He pays more attention to the poor and the destitute. “I will serve the people till my last breath,” said Das, who has not been deterred by the pandemic. He takes all precaution before visiting the hospital that has reported 130 Covid-19 positive cases. “I wear a PPE kit, face mask and head gear before entering the hospital. I even cremated one body that was lying at he cancer centre for more than 24 hours with no one to claim it,” he added. Earlier also he has cremated bodies of patients and till date the number stands at 1200. “I get lot of satisfaction by helping the needy. It helps me live. I feel unhappy if I have missed out in helping a single cancer patient,” said Abhimanyu. Recently, former cricketer Mohammad Kaif shared Abhimanyu’s story over Twitter for his selfless service to humanity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/man-earns-cm-pat-for-helping-patients/articleshow/77269530.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Bhopal||MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s treatment at private hospital sends wrong msg: Congress||BHOPAL: State Congress alleged that chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan getting admitted in a private hospital here for Covid-19 treatment has severely damaged the faith of people in government hospitals. The party also alleged that VIPs and ministers in the government affected by the virus are getting free treatment at Chirayu Hospital while the common man has to even pay for his meals in quarantine centres. “The Madhya Pradesh government is spending crores on anti-corona campaigns but people have lost faith. The chief minister going for treatment at a private hospital has dented the trust that people had in government hospitals,” said state Congress spokesman Durgesh Sharma. Congress alleged that BJP leaders and workers are not observing social distancing protocols and many ministers are not wearing masks. “This is the reason why people are also not obeying rules and the number of Covid-19 patients are constantly rising,” Sharma said. PCC chief Kamal Nath’s media convener Narendra Saluja said, “If a common man in Bhopal is corona positive and goes to Chirayu Hospital, he is denied admission because it has become a VIP hospital. One needs recommendation of BJP leaders or top officials to get treatment there. While all VIPs are getting free treatment there, the poor man kept in other quarantine centres has to pay for his treatment. Even his meals are being billed.” Saluja reasoned that the situation should have been the opposite and the common man should have been given free treatment in Chirayu Hospital. “The ministers who are getting five-star treatment there should have opted for paid services since they have no dearth of money. Meanwhile, the common man is struggling even to get an ambulance to take a patient to the hospital,” he added. A day earlier, BJP veteran Ajay Vishnoi had asked questions of the party leadership, wondering why all the VIPs were taking shelter in private hospitals. What facilities are there in private hospitals that the government has not been able to create in state-run hospitals, he wondered. Vishnoi has been speaking out against the government after being passed over in the last cabinet expansion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cms-treatment-at-pvt-hosp-sends-wrong-msg-cong/articleshow/77271080.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Jaipur||Hubby, kin held for killing woman, son||Jaipur: Almost a month after a 38-year-old woman and her 14-year-old son were killed, police have solved the murder mystery. Police claimed that a love affair of the husband with his sister-in-law led to the conspiracy and execution of murder. Police have arrested the accused husband, his brother and his sister-in-law (sister of the deceased woman). According to police, Anita Sharma (38) and her son Mayank Sharma (14) were found dead under mysterious circumstances. Both were found having under the influence of poisonous substance. “Soon after their body was found that role of the husband Anil Sharma was on police radar. Thus, we started keeping an eye on his activity. During the investigation it was found that he was in constant touch with Pooja who is his sister-in-law. Based on some scientific and technical evidences, Anil was grilled and he confessed his crime,” said Pradeep Mohan Sharma, superintendent of police (West) on Thursday. It was found that Anil was in love with Pooja, the younger sister of the deceased woman. “Since the wife of the accused came to know about the affair she was regularly objecting to it. Thus, Anil along with his brother Sunil Sharma and the woman Pooja conspired and executed the two murders,” Sharma added. All the three have been arrested on the charges of murder and criminal conspiracy. At first instance police too believed it could be suicide – Initially police believed it could be a case of suicide, however the way husband Anil responded to it created doubts and suspicion in the mind of the police. “We got a few things which indicated possibility of murder, through the cause of death was only intoxication,” said a senior officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hubby-kin-held-for-killing-woman-son/articleshow/77272331.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Jaipur||Milk theft racket: 3 cops suspended in Alwar||ALWAR: Unravelling the connivance of policemen in running a racket involved in stealing of milk from the tankers, the Alwar police on Thursday suspended three constables and have sent one assistant sub-inspector(ASI) and four other constables to police lines. Alwar police was already in news for wrong reasons for helping notorious gangster Papla Gujjar to flee. Senior police officers, including Ram Moorti Joshi, the superintendent of police, Alwar found that some policemen connived with gangs involved in stealing of milk from the milk tankers from the national highways. After the matter came to the noticed of the SP, a strict action was taken against the tainted policemen. “It was also found that these policemen were not only involved in facilitating the theft of milk but they were also involved in lobbying to release the arrested accused in connection to the milk theft,” said a senior police officer. Those who were suspended included a driver constable Sanjay Yadav and another constable Sanjay Dhankar. “Five other policemen including an ASI have been sent to lines. The matter would now be investigated by deputy superintendent of police, Behror Atul Sahi,” said a senior police officer. When contacted, Joshi while talking to TOI, said, “On July 26, we have analysed the case in which police had arrested six persons red handed while stealing milk that was been supplied to Delhi via Alwar in milk tankers. We got a specific input on the involvement of some policemen. Thus, action was taken and an investigation is on,” Joshi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/milk-theft-racket-3-cops-suspended-in-alwar/articleshow/77272332.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Kolkata||Are you being fleeced, cops ask medicine buyers||Kolkata: Police have appealed to relatives of patients to report to them if any medicine store or hospital charges more than the maximum retail price for Tocilizumab and Remdesivir. The Enforcement Branch on Thursday visited a few hospitals and spoke to pharmaceutical industry wholesalers and sought answers on how they are dealing with the alleged shortage of supply of these two drugs that are being used for treatment of Covid patients. “Most of the medicines are reaching hospitals directly. So, we spoke to a few hospital authorities to analyse if any intervention was required from our side at this point of time,” explained an officer. They, however, said the visit had no connection with the Gurgaon case in which five Iraqi citizens were arrested for smuggling Remdesivir and that Haryana police is yet to contact them. “We had gone to Mehta Building to check on a few products of a particular company and a couple of medicines,” an officer said, adding that they were waiting for directions from the drug controller’s office where they have sent a report on the uneven supply of these medicines. Pharmacists and medical fraternity professionals also expressed surprise at the claims that the racket of smuggling out Tocilizumab and Remdesivir had links to Kolkata apart from Delhi. According to pharmacists, the usual route for medicine distribution is through stockists and distributors before it reaches the retail outlets. But Remdesivir and Tocilizumab are supplied directly to hospitals. Doctors place their requirements with the hospitals, which in turn places an order with pharmaceutical firms. The medicine is then supplied directly to the hospitals through institutional stockists. “Some companies have a detailed distribution report which specifies how many vials have reached which hospital. It comes with the dates on which those vials were supplied,” said Sajal Ganguly, general secretary of the Bengal Chemists’ and Druggists’ Association. Santanu Sen, Rajya Sabha MP and immediate past president of the Indian Medical association said each of the vial of Remdesivir is under the scanner of multiple agencies. “Even patients’ consent is recorded after he is given the medicine. I have not heard about any incident where stocks were misused,” Sen said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/are-you-being-fleeced-cops-ask-medicine-buyers/articleshow/77271100.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 31, 2020||Bareilly||Scientific sugarcane cropping behind farmers’ all round growth: Bhoosreddy||Pilibhit: The principal secretary of sugarcane and sugar industry in UP, Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, has claimed that the promotion of advanced scientific methods of sugarcane cultivation in the state has resulted in better soil health, increased productivity, minimal affliction of diseases and insects on crops, in addition to considerable decrease in agricultural investments. This positivity has ensured outstanding growth in the farming sector and enhancement in additional incomes of farmers, during a span of the past three years. Some farmers corroborated Bhoosreddy’s claims to TOI.“One of the most advantageous techniques is the trench method of sugarcane sowing, generally applied in autumn, which allows inter-cropping. During the past year, sugarcane growers had sown lentils, peas, potatoes, garlic, etc., along with cane in over two lakh hectares in the state. These crops earned the farmers additional income to the tune of Rs1,13,640 per hectare,” Bhoosreddy said.He said by adopting the department’s ‘ratoon management programme’, farmers could protect moisture in soil of sugarcane fields, resulting in savings on irrigation, as well as warding off attack of black bugs.“Through the horticulture department, the department is providing 80-90% subsidy on drip-water irrigation systems, which ensure judicious use of water and equal application of liquid fertilisers on crops. This system is already in use over an area of 17,000 hectare at present,” he said.By using soil health cards, sugarcane growers succeeded in reducing use of fertilisers by 25%. The department has also covered 10 million hectare under sugarcane crop with the trash mulching programme. By using dry leaves as manure in this method, the fertility of land was increased, weeds and pests were reduced and irrigation resources saved. This ensured additional savings to farmers to the tune of Rs 4,500 per hectare, Bhoosreddy said.Under the high yielded seed production programme, the department distributed 242 lakh quintals of cane seed to farmers, which resulted in an average yield of 811 quintals per hectare, in comparison to the earlier average of around 600 quintals. This brought about a rise in farmers’ incomes by Rs 1,920 per hectare, he said.Drumming up the scientific methods introduced by the cane department, a farmer at village Bhairo Kalan in Pilibhit, Palvinder Singh, said he had sown potatoes with trench sugarcane during last year’s autumn sowing season, followed it up with onion after harvesting the potato crop in early February, and earned over Rs 1.50 lakh per hectare surplus.Another farmer, Hari Om Gangwar of village Devipur, who had sown linseed with sugarcane, said he successfully earned a surplus of Rs 1.10 lakh per hectare through inter-cropping.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/scientific-sugarcane-cropping-behind-farmers-all-round-growth-bhoosreddy/articleshow/77266020.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Many from CAPF got meagre disability element||Now disabled personnel of CAPF who had retired prior to 2006 would be entitled to disability pension, irrespective of the length of service. According to the experts, many CAPF personnel were paid a meagre disability element which was not sufficient to cater to even basic needs. An officer well versed with the subject added that the minimum monthly disability pension at current rates admissible to affected retirees would now be Rs 18,000 per month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/many-from-capf-got-meagre-disability-element/articleshow/77272322.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Community vigil programme in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: A community vigil programme was conducted by the Nilgiris district administration at Tamizhagam in Ooty for the officials of TANTEA and Industrial Cooperative (INDCO) tea factories. Supriya Sahu, chief executive officer and monitoring officer of the Nilgiris said, “Four such community programmes were held in all the four panchayat unions in the district. Village heads and community heads were sensitized in the programmes to take the message of awareness to every individual in their villages. This is one such for the tea industry”.“Higher officials in the tea industry, if at all, happen to travel, they need to self-quarantine themselves after return,” she added. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/community-vigil-programme-in-nilgiris/articleshow/77271103.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Delhi||‘New education policy can build from where 4-year undergrad programme left’||Many will remember Dinesh Singh as the Delhi University vice-chancellor who implemented the four-year undergraduate programme (FYUP) in 2013 only to face massive opposition and, eventually, the scrapping of the programme. Singh seemed vindicated after the National Education Policy, announced on Wednesday, underlined just such a four-year undergrad course with a choice-based credit system similar to what he had initiated in DU. In an interview with Shraddha Chhetri, Singh said this new undergraduate system was a good idea and FYUP has shown it can work.Q. What went wrong with FYUP in Delhi University?A. I really don’t know. We had excellent results with it, and DU’s global rankings surged ahead even of the IITs, except for Kanpur and Bombay. Undergraduate students were producing research, we were getting patents and there were start-ups. Q. FYUP was criticised for being hastily implemented without following procedures.A. A few ideologically committed teachers were vociferous in their opposition. If you call a 10-year-old preparation for it ‘haste’, then let it be so. The point is, I told you about the results FYUP produced. Students used to tell me all the time how happy they were with the learning under the programme. They were learning to use data in a practical way. Students who did not know English said it made such a difference to learn the language in a creative way. Sanskrit students began to see how they could use computer programming to learn it better. All these happened, and this is what NEP also hopes to achieve. People who opposed it should look at the results. They can see how many undergraduate research papers have come out since. Q. FYUP was discontinued in 2014 when a new government came to power. Now there’s NEP talking about its importance.A. It is a good idea and I welcome it. I know it works because we have already tried it. Q. NEP also talks of different entry-exit points in the undergrad course, similar to what FYUP prescribed.A. It is almost a verbatim reproduction of what we did with FYUP, though we too are not the original propounders of that. These are good ideas that everyone understands. Q. Do foreign countries follow the four-year programme?A. Yes, they do, but no university abroad had the features the erstwhile FYUP had, such as the multiple entry-exit points, an honours programme in four years through research, playing cricket and getting credit for mathematics. Why do you think so many countries conferred honorary degrees on me? Why did they invited me to lecture to thousands of teachers and students? Q. And your views on NEP’s choice-based credit system?A. CBCS is a mutilated copy of FYUP. FYUP was a project-based learning system, and CBCS has killed many of its features. Q. Your overall reaction to NEP?A. At the school level, the new policy has the right insights, starting with use of the mother tongue, reducing rote learning, making education experiential. If we lay a good foundation at the school level, the university can automatically build on the advantages. At the university level, the multidisciplinary, experiential learning approach is already in place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-education-policy-can-build-from-where-4-yr-undergrad-programme-left/articleshow/77271109.cms||Shradha Chettri
July 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Dad, stepson dupe investors of Rs 65 crore, held||COIMBATORE: The economic offence wing (EOW) police on Wednesday arrested two directors of multi-level marketing firm Green Crest for cheating investors of Rs 65 crore. B Manikandan, 48, of Krishnasamy Nagar near Ramanathapuram and his stepson P Sanjaykumar, 27, had launched the firm at Krishnasamy Nagar in 2018, police said. “They promised 0.5% daily interest for investment and the capital after 11 months. Preliminary investigations revealed that more than 1,000 people from across the state had invested in the firm,” a police officer said. “After the firm stopped paying interest from May, some investors approached the duo, who threatened them. On Wednesday, more than 50 investors besieged the directors’ house demanding their money and also lodged a complaint with EOW,” the officer told TOI. Police arrested the duo and they were remanded in judicial custody. “We have formed a team to arrest Manikandan’s second wife Padmavathi, stepdaughter Saranya and agents Srinivasan and Karthikeyan. The family spent most of the money to lead alavish life. We plan to take them in custody for five days for inquiry,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tamil-nadu-dad-stepson-dupe-investors-of-rs-65-crore-held/articleshow/77271082.cms||A Subburaj
July 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Farmer’s suicide in Telangana's Gajwel sparks row||HYDERABAD: A dalit farmer ended his life in Veluru village in Wargal mandal on Thursday, blaming authorities for trying to take away his small parcel of land. The suicide sparked a row as the village falls under Gajwel constituency, represented by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, in Siddipet district. Opposition leaders and villagers accused officials of attempting to take over 13 guntas of land owned by the deceased farmer, Byagari Narasimhulu (35), to construct a rythu vedika. While opposition parties termed it as ‘murder’ by the ruling party, TRS called it politically instigated. Narasimhulu consumed pesticide even as he video-recorded his suicide bid in his farm on Wednesday. Neighbours rushed him to an area hospital and later to government hospital in Siddipet where he died on Thursday morning. In a voice message, the farmer alleged that the sarpanch and village revenue officer (VRO) of Veluru, and tehsildar of Wargal had been refusing to update records on his pattadar passbook though his family held the assigned land for generations. Narasimhulu held the sarpanch, VRO and tehsildar responsible for his extreme step. Though Narasimhulu did not clearly mention it in his audio message, villagers alleged that authorities were planning to take his land to build the rythu vedika, an initiative of the state government where farmers could meet at the place to discuss their issues. Rythu vedikas are being constructed across the state as sought by the CM. Tension prevailed in the village as family members staged a dharna in front of the residence of sarpanch T Papi Reddy. Congress leader SA Sampath Kumar and others were arrested by police when they were heading to Veleru. State BJP president Bandi Sanjay said the death was a “murder by the government,” while TPCC chief Uttam Kumar Reddy said cases under the SC/ST Act should be booked against the culprits. Finance minister and Siddipet legislator T Harish Rao, who was participating in various programmes in Wargal, said opposition parties were trying to politicise the issue. Describing the death as unfortunate at a press conference in Gajwel, he said: “The opposition parties are playing politics over a corpse,” he said. The minister said the 13 guntas of land belonging to Narasimhulu had been taken away by then Congress government to construct a sub-station. “We will order an inquiry and punish those responsible for his death,” he said. The minister announced an immediate assistance of Rs 2 lakh and an acre to the family of the deceased. He has also assured to get the child of the deceased farmer educated at government expense.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/farmers-suicide-in-gajwel-sparks-row/articleshow/77272784.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 31, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 tally crosses 7,000 mark||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand recorded four more deaths and 199 new Covid-19 positive cases on Thursday, taking the overall caseload count in the state to 7,056, and a total of 76 deaths. Test results of 7,524 people are still awaited from across the state. All the four deceased patients belonged to Haridwar and they breathed their last at AIIMS Rishikesh. They were brought to the facility with various comorbidities, according to Harish Mohan Thapliyal, PRO of AIIMS-Rishikesh. "A 21-year-old woman from Jwalapur, Haridwar, on July 24, a 55-year-old man from Roshnabad, Haridwar, on July 28, and a 75-year-old woman also from Jwalapur, Haridwar, on July 29 were admitted at AIIMS-Rishikesh with comorbid illness where they succumbed to their ailments," A Covid positive woman, who suffered renal issues, passed away. She belonged to Haldwani. The maximum number of positive cases surfaced from Dehradun (74), followed by Haridwar (47), Nainital (26), Pithoragarh (9), Uttarkashi (7), Pauri (4) and three each in Rudraprayag and Udham Singh Nagar. Of the 13 districts, only Tehri had zero cases on Thursday. The state's highest 1,604 cases were reported from Dehradun followed by Udham Singh Nagar (1,247). Among those found positive were Rajkumar, the Purola MLA, Uttarkashi. He was brought to the Doon Medical College hospital on Wednesday for preliminary testing. According to Dr NS Khatri, nodal officer of Covid-19, his test results have come positive. Now, the health department in Uttarkashi has swung into action to identify people who were in contact with the MLA, to get them tested. Meanwhile, 185 patients were cured on Thursday, taking the total state count to 3,996.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhands-covid-19-tally-crosses-7k-mark/articleshow/77269540.cms||Shivani Azad
July 31, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Now, pensioners to be geotagged to check Covid||AMARAVATI: In an attempt to check the spread of Covid-19, the state government has decided to move to geotagging beneficiaries’ pictures while disbursing welfare pensions in place of the biometric authentication system currently in place. Village and ward volunteers have been using a photo-identification method for distributing pensions over the last two months. A mobile phone application has now been developed to capture beneficiaries’ pictures and geotag them. Panchayat raj and rural development minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy said the government has granted pensions to nearly 2.2 lakh new beneficiaries in July, taking the number of beneficiaries to 61.28 lakh since August 2019. Speaking to the media here on Thursday, the minister said all arrangements have been made for the disbursement of pension on Saturday under the YSR Pension Kanuka scheme. The government has spared an additional Rs 51.67 crore for grant of pensions to newly-identified beneficiaries, the minister said, adding that 2.68 lakh village and ward volunteers would be in the field to distribute pension. A total of 6,734 pensioners would avail pension through portability while pensions of 1,458 beneficiaries is on hold as they are stranded in other places due to the outbreak, the minister said. Nearly 1.5 lakh pensioners who were unable to receive the pension in the last six months will now receive the cumulative amount this month. The minister said that as many as 1,568 pensions have been granted to critically ill persons. Along with welfare pensions for the elderly and the physically challenged, pensions offered under various corporations such as the Brahmin corporation and for Kapu, SC, ST, BC, EBC communities and minorities have also been brought under the YSR Pension Kanuka, Peddireddi said. The government is spending Rs 1,478 crore on pensions, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/now-pensioners-to-be-geotagged-to-check-covid/articleshow/77269553.cms||Samdani MN
July 31, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: Now, pensioners to be geotagged to check Covid||AMARAVATI: In an attempt to check the spread of Covid-19, the state government has decided to move to geotagging beneficiaries’ pictures while disbursing welfare pensions in place of the biometric authentication system currently in place. Village and ward volunteers have been using a photo-identification method for distributing pensions over the last two months. A mobile phone application has now been developed to capture beneficiaries’ pictures and geotag them. Panchayat raj and rural development minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy said the government has granted pensions to nearly 2.2 lakh new beneficiaries in July, taking the number of beneficiaries to 61.28 lakh since August 2019. Speaking to the media here on Thursday, the minister said all arrangements have been made for the disbursement of pension on Saturday under the YSR Pension Kanuka scheme. The government has spared an additional Rs 51.67 crore for grant of pensions to newly-identified beneficiaries, the minister said, adding that 2.68 lakh village and ward volunteers would be in the field to distribute pension. A total of 6,734 pensioners would avail pension through portability while pensions of 1,458 beneficiaries is on hold as they are stranded in other places due to the outbreak, the minister said. Nearly 1.5 lakh pensioners who were unable to receive the pension in the last six months will now receive the cumulative amount this month. The minister said that as many as 1,568 pensions have been granted to critically ill persons. Along with welfare pensions for the elderly and the physically challenged, pensions offered under various corporations such as the Brahmin corporation and for Kapu, SC, ST, BC, EBC communities and minorities have also been brought under the YSR Pension Kanuka, Peddireddi said. The government is spending Rs 1,478 crore on pensions, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/now-pensioners-to-be-geotagged-to-check-covid/articleshow/77277972.cms||Samdani MN
July 31, 2020||Dehradun||Services of 20 doctors, who did not join after selection, terminated by Uttarakhand govt||DEHRADUN: The services of 20 doctors, who had been selected for government service but had been missing since their probation period, were terminated by the Uttarakhand government with immediate effect on Thursday. In a recent cabinet meeting, the state had decided to end the services of all such doctors, who had not joined work after their selection. In May this year, the services of 426 doctors, who have been selected between 2010 and 2015 and did not either join posting or complete their probation period, were ended with immediate effect. Among those who did not join duty included doctors who had been given posting in the hills as well as the plain areas of the Himalayan state. Out of the list of 20 doctors, four were posted at Udham Singh Nagar, three at Haridwar, three at Chamoli, two at Tehri and one each at Almora, Bageshwar, Champawat, Dehradun, Nainital, Pauri, Rudraprayag and Uttarkashi. An order in this regard – addressed to all the senior health authorities – was issued by health secretary Amit Negi on Thursday. In May, similar action was taken against 426 doctors. Out of the total of 426 doctors, 385 did not join their duty, whereas the remaining 41 did not complete the probation period. After the termination of their services, the state government announced that it will soon initiate the process for fresh recruitments on these posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/services-of-20-doctors-who-did-not-join-after-selection-terminated-by-state-govt/articleshow/77269560.cms||Kautilya Singh
July 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Four-year system will help enhance skills, say experts||NEW DELHI: The newly announced National Education Policy’s intent to change the undergraduate programme in Indian universities from a three-year degree course to a four-year system has found several takers in the academic world. Faculty members in the city universities welcomed it as essential to education that is compatible with international standards. There is general support too for abolishing the MPhil degree, which is seen as a hindrance for students desiring to pursue a PhD course. Unlike the opposition the four-year undergraduate programme (FYUP) faced when initiated in Delhi University in 2013, there appears to be general acceptance for such a course under NEP. Ramesh Chandra, dead of the chemistry department in DU, a strong supporter of FYUP when it was implemented, believes that NEP’s four-year plan too is “essential for Indian students to compete at the international level”. Many private universities already have a 4-year degree programme, and Malabika Sarkar, vice-chancellor, Ashoka University, shared that this gave students the “opportunity to deepen their education and apply their learning in the first three years and become better prepared for the job market or for postgraduate study with an additional major, project or a thesis in the fourth year”. Mukesh Ranjan of Jamia Millia Islamia’s English department similarly believed the new setup would help students. “Under the four-year system, the skills of students will improve, and multidisciplinary teaching will allow them flexibility,” he said. Christel Devadawson, former dean of DU’s English department, said she always believed FYUP had intellectual and cultural potential. “The protests against it had more to do with the possible dilution of intellectual content. If that is dealt with and negotiated in a thoughtful manner, then a weakness of the past can become a strength for the future,” he said. She, however, was concerned with the view that “students from marginal societies might not be able to comply with it”. This worry was shared by, among others, Asha Sarangi of JNU’s Centre for Political Studies. “I don’t think the four-year course is a viable option in the Indian context because of hiked fees and admission issues faced by students from disadvantaged groups,” said Sarangi. “Not everyone is privileged enough to sustain four years of studying. With a three-year programme, there was a better chance for such students to move out.” As for the MPhil degree losing currency, Andrew Lynne of the School of Computational and Integrative Sciences at Jawaharlal Nehru University, claimed, “We have always been in favour of the MPhil course being discontinued. It was useful only for social sciences students who wanted to move into research and needed a platform. JNU was already in the process of removing MPhil in various courses.” Sadhana Naithani of JNU’s Centre for German Studies reasoned that since a key criterion for appointment as professor from 2021 is a PhD degree, there was no need for MPhil. “It is fine if it is discontinued,” she said, but was unclear about the push to multi-disciplinary teaching under NEP because of the lack of clarity on it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/four-year-system-will-help-enhance-skills-say-experts/articleshow/77271139.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
July 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat govt begins soft marketing of 2021 Vibrant summit||GANDHINAGAR: While there is no let-up in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state, the Gujarat government has begun soft marketing of its ninth biennial Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit (VGGS), scheduled to be held in January next year. The state government has begun to approach partner countries and international agencies and has even been getting responses, but there is still a lot of uncertainty over the format of the event and even whether it will take place. Manoj Das, principal secretary to the chief minister and industry and mines department has started approaching partner countries from earlier summits and international agencies. On Thursday, Das held a video conference with US-based international agencies and a few companies. Earlier, he also held similar video conferences with entities in Japan, UK and Germany. These three countries have shown an interest in partnering again if the Covid-19 pandemic is brought under control in Gujarat and India. Sources privy to the development said, “Although there is complete uncertainty due to the pandemic, the state government has begun preparations for the Vibrant Gujarat summit in 2021. Consultations are on with countries and international business organisations, and all preparations are being done anticipating that the Covid-19 pandemic will be under control in the next two months.” Sources added, “Whether an alternative format will be adopted or the summit will be postponed, will be decided at the highest level. For now, the government is working to organize the VGGS on that same scale and format as previous editions.” Under normal circumstances, the Gujarat government begins promotional activities for the Vibrant summit at least six months in advance. Senior officials visit the US, UK, Japan, Middle East, Africa and other regions from July to September and many pre-event seminars are also held from August on. These activities have not been initiated yet. The 2019 edition of the summit witnessed the participation of about 2,000 foreign delegates from over 100 countries. Over 20 states also participated in the event. There were more than ten partner countries for the summit. Since the government of India also participates in the biennial event, the Gujarat government is also waiting for directions in this regard from the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-begins-soft-marketing-of-2021-vibrant-summit/articleshow/77271156.cms||Kapil Dave
July 31, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Cruelty against camels on the rise||JAISALMER: Cruelty against camel, the state animal of Rajasthan, seems to be at its peak. Yet another incident of a camel being killed came to light on Thursday, when an unidentified vehicle hit the animal near Bhaniyana Devikot area here. Degrai Camel Conservation institute president Sumer Singh Bhati, who reached the spot where the accident occurred said, “Incidents of cruelty against camels is on the rise. Police and administration should take strict action against the culprits to prevent such instances in future.” The incident comes just five days after a four-year-old camel was axed to death in Churu district. The attack occurred after the abandoned camel allegedly rampaged through a standing crop, causing loss to the farmer. With many areas experiencing agrarian distress, farmers are under financial stress and thus it is difficult for them to look after their livestock. In such a scenario, many camels are abandoned as their utility has also decreased. Ramkaran Raika, who owns a camel says, “The per-day expense to feed a camel is approximately Rs 350-Rs 400. As camel trade is disrupted, camel breeders were forced to set male camels free. This has led to an increase in cruelty cases,” The 20th Livestock Census in 2019 revealed that camel population has drastically declined in the state. In 2012, the figure was 3.26 lakh, which has declined to just 2.13 lakh as of 2019. Bhati said, the state government declared it as the state animal but no special efforts have been made to protect them. The schemes that were announced for camel conservation were also withdrawn. “Cattle herders are not getting any amount under the National camel development scheme and new registration in this scheme is still closed due to which number of camels is continuously declining and camel smuggling is continuing unabated, due to which camels are on the verge of extinction,” added Bhati. Herders claim that status of state animal came with many restrictions as the state government went on to pass a law banning the slaughter, trade and unauthorised transportation of camels. Moreover, tourism has also been hit, where there was some utility of the animal. “This protocol of state animal has affected business and sales have declined. The animals are not allowed to be sold outside the state, except for agricultural purposes. It has no utility and keeping it makes no sense. This is why many herders abandon old and male camels,” said Shankar Singh, another herder. The animal, which is dubbed as the ‘ship of the desert’ and considered a lifeline for desert dwellers, is now often categorised as vermin (wild animals considered harmful) and attacked by the villagers on a daily basis, after they are abandoned to their fate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/cruelty-against-camels-on-the-rise/articleshow/77277554.cms||Ajay Singh
July 31, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Cruelty against camels on the rise||JAISALMER: Cruelty against camel, the state animal of Rajasthan, seems to be at its peak. Yet another incident of a camel being killed came to light on Thursday, when an unidentified vehicle hit the animal near Bhaniyana Devikot area here. Degrai Camel Conservation institute president Sumer Singh Bhati, who reached the spot where the accident occurred said, “Incidents of cruelty against camels is on the rise. Police and administration should take strict action against the culprits to prevent such instances in future.” The incident comes just five days after a four-year-old camel was axed to death in Churu district. The attack occurred after the abandoned camel allegedly rampaged through a standing crop, causing loss to the farmer. With many areas experiencing agrarian distress, farmers are under financial stress and thus it is difficult for them to look after their livestock. In such a scenario, many camels are abandoned as their utility has also decreased. Ramkaran Raika, who owns a camel says, “The per-day expense to feed a camel is approximately Rs 350-Rs 400. As camel trade is disrupted, camel breeders were forced to set male camels free. This has led to an increase in cruelty cases,” The 20th Livestock Census in 2019 revealed that camel population has drastically declined in the state. In 2012, the figure was 3.26 lakh, which has declined to just 2.13 lakh as of 2019. Bhati said, the state government declared it as the state animal but no special efforts have been made to protect them. The schemes that were announced for camel conservation were also withdrawn. “Cattle herders are not getting any amount under the National camel development scheme and new registration in this scheme is still closed due to which number of camels is continuously declining and camel smuggling is continuing unabated, due to which camels are on the verge of extinction,” added Bhati. Herders claim that status of state animal came with many restrictions as the state government went on to pass a law banning the slaughter, trade and unauthorised transportation of camels. Moreover, tourism has also been hit, where there was some utility of the animal. “This protocol of state animal has affected business and sales have declined. The animals are not allowed to be sold outside the state, except for agricultural purposes. It has no utility and keeping it makes no sense. This is why many herders abandon old and male camels,” said Shankar Singh, another herder. The animal, which is dubbed as the ‘ship of the desert’ and considered a lifeline for desert dwellers, is now often categorised as vermin (wild animals considered harmful) and attacked by the villagers on a daily basis, after they are abandoned to their fate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cruelty-against-camels-on-the-rise/articleshow/77272334.cms||Ajay Singh
July 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Corpns give more time to file property tax with 15% rebate||NEW DELHI: If you missed the Friday deadline to pay your property tax while availing the 15% early filing rebate, there’s some good news. As many Delhiites complained about the glitches in the new property tax portal that made it harder to file the taxes on time, North Delhi Municipal Corporation and South Delhi Municipal Corporation have decided to extend the deadline by another month. North corporation mayor Jai Prakash said that the extension will help genuine tax payers. The civic agency has been facing acute financial crunch and has been unable to pay the salaries of doctors, teachers and officials for several months now. Standing committee chairman for SDMC Rajdatt Gahlot also confirmed that the corporation has extended the last date of payment of property tax with 15% rebate to August 31. Amit Kumar Sharma, accessor and collector for SDMC said that till date 2.4 lakh residents have paid up, generating Rs 295 crore. “Last year, SDMC collected Rs 430 crore in the same time period after 2.6 lakh residents paid their property tax,” Sharma said. The civic body has organised 114 tax collection camps in South zone, 104 camps in Central zone, 57 camps in Najafgarh zone and 173 camps in West zone till now. However, SDMC witnessed a rush of taxpayers on the last filing day. “While the final figures are still being collected, more than 17,000 people have filed the taxes on Friday,” an official said. South corporation has an annual target for property tax collection of Rs 1,100 crores in 2020-21. In the last financial year, 4.3 lakh people in south Delhi had filed their taxes till the March deadline. Gahlot added that under an amnesty scheme, the previous taxes for unauthorised colonies have been waived. However, they have to pay the property tax for financial years 2019-20 and 2020-21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corpns-give-more-time-to-file-property-tax-with-15-rebate/articleshow/77293637.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha submits final draft of new police manual to CM||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha submitted the final draft of the Gujarat Police Manual 2020 to chief minister Vijay Rupani on Thursday at his office in presence of the chief minister’s chief principal secretary K Kailashnathan, ACS (home) Sangeeta Singh and senior police officers who were involved in drafting of the new police manual. The proposed revisions, drafted first time after 1975 , incorporate the latest acts, rules and regulations, and developments in technology. Those who prepared the revisions reviewed every clause and section of the manual for redundant and outdated provisions inconsistent with modern practices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dgp-jha-submits-final-draft-of-new-police-manual-to-cm/articleshow/77271132.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: 15-year-old boy held for raping 11-year-old girl||COIMBATORE: A 15-year-old boy was arrested by the Tirupur south all-women police on Wednesday for raping a 11-year-old girl in a room nearby his grocery shop in Tirupur city. The boy was lodged at the observation home for juveniles at the Lakshmi Mills junction in the city. Police said the boy’s family moved to Tirupur city from Tirunelveli district 23 years ago. A Class VIII dropout, the boy has been working in a grocery shop owned by his parents. The minor girl often visited the grocery shop to buy confectionaries. Whenever he was alone at the shop, the boy used to forcibly take the girl inside the shop and rape her. As the girl’s parents are working in a vest company, she took care of her younger brother and sister at home. The parents often gave money to buy sweets from the shop. A few days ago, the girl’s mother learned that her daughter was sexually assaulted repeatedly, and she lodged a complaint with the Tirupur south all-women police inspector Sheela who registered a case against the minor boy under sections 5 (l) (m) (n) and 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012 and arrested him on Wednesday. Preliminary investigation revealed that the boy used to watch porn videos in his mobile phone. He was lodged in the observation home in the city. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/15-yr-old-boy-held-for-raping-11-year-old-girl/articleshow/77271110.cms||---
July 31, 2020||India||Clash at Sonia Gandhi meet with Rajya Sabha MPs exposes Cong’s generational rift||NEW DELHI: The generational divide in Congress and differences over the party’s political slide bared itself when the demand by a senior member for introspection evoked sharp retort from a young member, seen as a Rahul loyalist, that the party was suffering for shortcomings during UPA-II and a review should date back to the post-2009 phase. The clash marred the meeting of Rajya Sabha MPs with Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday, which was also attended by former PM Manmohan Singh and a string of UPA luminaries like A K Antony, Ghulam Nabi Azad, P Chidambaram, Anand Sharma and Kapil Sibal among others. As the meeting got under way, veterans flagged the need for a reality check on the party’s political strategy and organisational weaknesses. In the course of the discussion, MPs PL Punia, Ripun Bora and Chhaya Verma raised the demand that Rahul Gandhi be made the party chief again. According to sources, a clutch of seniors said the Modi government had badly bungled on critical issues like Corona pandemic, Chinese aggression and economy. Yet, they said, Congress was not being heard by people and it was still BJP that was finding popular resonance. This was despite the hard work being put in by Rahul Gandhi and others, a participant added. While Chidambaram said the party lacked organisation at district and block level, senior lawyer Kapil Sibal impressed upon the need for “introspection from top to bottom” on why it was happening. This elicited a sharp riposte from new RS entrant and Rahul Gandhi aide Rajeev Satav, who said any introspection would have to go back to years when the party was in office. He said it was following the government being formed in 2009 that Congress fortunes nosedived in 2014 when it lost. As if pointing towards UPA-era ministers, he said review of their performance was also in order. He added if a timely introspection was done during UPA-II, Congress would not have been reduced to 44 seats in 2014. A Congress MP claimed that former PM Singh was cut up over the aggressive words used against UPA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/clash-at-sonia-gandhi-meet-with-rajya-sabha-mps-exposes-congs-generational-rift/articleshow/77273463.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
July 31, 2020||Vijayawada||MLC byelection scheduled for August 24||VIJAYAWADA: The Election Commission on Thursday released the schedule for legislative council by-election. The election will fill the vacancy that arose after Mopidevi Venkata Ramana resigned after getting elected to Rajya Sabha. Though another minister and Legislative Council member, Pilli Subhash Chandra Bose, also resigned from his post, the EC has decided to skip the by-election as Bose’s term was to end in less than a year. Mopidevi Venkata Ramana’s tenure ends on March 29, 2023. As per the schedule, the state chief electoral officer said the election notification would be issued on August 6. Nominations would be received by August 13 and polling would be held on August 24. Counting of votes would also be held on August 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mlc-by-election-scheduled-for-august-24/articleshow/77269586.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Agra||Bareilly reports 267 new Covid +ve cases, 5 deaths||Bareilly/Meerut/Agra: Bareilly continued to witness a surge in Covid-19 cases as 267 more people tested positive in the district on Thursday. This is the highest single-day spike, taking the district tally past the 2,000 mark. Additional chief medical officer Dr Ashok Kumar said five people died due to Covid-19. A 69-year-old woman from Ekta Nagar, a 67-year-old man from Prem Nagar, a 62-year-old man from Chak Mehmoodpur, a 59-year-old man from Meerganj and an elderly person from Rithora succumbed to the virus while undergoing treatment. The total cases in Bareilly rose to 2,262 with 58 deaths. At least 72 fresh cases were reported from Budaun while Shahjahanpur reported 58 cases with one death. In Meerut district, at least 34 people, including a teacher and an engineer, tested positive on Thursday, taking the total tally to 2,103, said Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's chief medical officer. Moreover, at least 35 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra district on Thursday, taking the district tally to 1,765. These included two patients of influenza-like illness, three patients of SARI and two of coronary artery infection. Also, 21 patients were discharged. Of the 1,765 cases, 80.62% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are also 243 active cases in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/bareilly-reports-267-new-covid-ve-cases-5-deaths/articleshow/77269590.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Hyderabad||HC bitter pill for Telangana govt on Niloufer diet food supply scam||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Thursday slammed the government for not taking action on a food supply contractor of state-run Niloufer children’s hospital and sought a detailed report by August 17 on the scam perpetrated in the name of supplying diet food to children and mothers in the hospital. Wondering if authorities were also hand in glove with contractor Koduri Suresh Babu despite inquiries clearly establishing his role in swindling government funds, a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy expressed doubts about possible complicity of the hospital superintendent in the scam. The judges were hearing a petition of P Bhagavanth Rao of Osmangunj, who alleged that the contractor continued to have a free run despite the inquiry report confirming embezzlement of Rs 3.5 crore. The judges said the contractor was swindling money from the exchequer. “Half the loot is going to someone else. Everybody is dancing to the tunes of Suresh Babu and turning a blind eye towards misuse of lakhs of rupees of public money,” the bench said. When the petitioner’s counsel brought to the notice of the judges that the government had given the diet supply contract at Gandhi and Chest hospitals to Suresh Babu, the judges said: “There are allegations against Suresh Babu that regardless of supply of high protein food to patients in Niloufer hospital, he was minting crores of rupees from the state. There are also allegations of bogus bills which meant that he was minting money in the name of non-existent patients.” The petitioner alleged that money meant for infants was being misused. “It has been almost one year since there was a public outcry over rampant corruption in the supply of food. The government ordered a probe 10 months ago and the inquiry report confirmed corruption of Rs 3.5 crore. Even then the contractor has not been touched,” he said. At this point, state counsel P Radhive Reddy furnished a report of the superintendent of Niloufer hospital to the judges who got furious after going through the report. In his report, the superintendent said: “Probably after the court took up the issue, the government replaced the contractor with a new contractor, Yadav Reddy. There were two inquiries conducted on Suresh Babu and findings of these reports were sent to the government. We are waiting for the government to act.” To this, the judges said: “He (superintendent) was trying to wash his hands of the issue. He did not tell us anything as to what were the findings in the inquiry reports. Even the government is not acting against that old contractor (Suresh).” “Inquiry has become a ceremony here. They (officials) perform it one after the other. Where is the need for ordering a second inquiry when the government was already in possession of a first inquiry report,” the judges said. Taking a serious view, they directed the government to inform the court by August 17 the action it took on the two inquiry reports and furnish copies of the reports. Contractor Suresh’s counsel, however, told the bench that a misinformation campaign was being launched against his client by a section of people. “This legal battle has been initiated at the behest of a contractor who competed with him for the Gandhi Hospital food diet supply contract and lost the tender.” The judges, however, asked him to file a counter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-bitter-pill-for-state-govt-on-niloufer-diet-food-supply-scam/articleshow/77272790.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
July 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Can’t put blanket ban on school fees: Gujarat HC||AHMEDABAD: On the state government’s decision prohibiting private schools from charging tuition fees as long as their premises remain shut to regular classes, the Gujarat high court on Thursday remarked that the government cannot place such a blanket ban and the court may interfere in this issue. The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala heard three PILs on the issue of fees by private schools and online education for kids in pre-primary section. The court decided to hear the issue further on Friday by tagging another petition with these PILs. The petition was filed by the Association of Private Institutions challenging the government resolution passed on July 16, in which the State has adopted the Centre’s guidelines about online education and restrained private schools form charging any fee from parents until schools start physically. The issue has arisen as schools are closed on account of Covid-19 pandemic, and the government took the extreme step of restraining schools from charging fees, after the HC asked the government to resolve the issue. Sources said that during the hearing, the judges made it clear to the state government that the court might interfere with the decision so far as fee waiver is concerned. The judges questioned the state government what prompted it to ban schools from collecting fees and whether parents had complained that the schools were not working or whether parents were unable to pay fees. To this, the advocate general replied that the grievances of parents were due to monetary constraints caused by the Covid-19 situation. The judges commented that there may be genuine difficulties in some cases, but the government cannot place a blanket ban on fee collection. The judges also said that after the process of Unlock, many activities have resumed and people may be able to pay fees. The government should consider this aspect also, sources said. The state government submitted that there is a proposal to carry forward a part of fees to next academic year, as people are unable to pay. But the court said that this did not appear feasible because it would shift the burden to next year. The issue started after the HC insisted that the government must resolve the fee impasse when Gujarat Parents’ Association filed a PIL through advocate Vishal Dave seeking rationalization of fee structure. The PIL had asked that the schools be stopped from demanding fees for those activities that are not taking place at present. The association also objected to certain private schools threatening students to discontinue their admission upon failure to pay fees before June 30. The HC ordered the government to ensure that no admission in private schools be cancelled over non-payment of fees by the deadline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cant-put-blanket-ban-on-school-fees-hc/articleshow/77271151.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Delhi||Concerns over how continuous evaluation will fare this time||NEW DELHI: NEP’s objective of ushering in ‘formative assessment’ recalls the continuous comprehensive evaluation (CCE) system introduced by the Right to Education Act, 2009. Many educators hope that this time, proper measures are put in place the system doesn’t have to be scrapped mid-way. RTE introduced the no-detention policy for students that necessitated continuous assessment. But it was later felt that improper application of CCE was affecting the quality of education, and it was discarded in 2017 and the Class X board exams made a comeback. NEP says, “The aim of assessment in the culture of our schooling system will shift from one that primarily tests rote memorisation skills to one that is more formative, is more competency-based, promotes learning and development for our students, and tests higher-order skills, such as analysis, critical thinking, and conceptual clarity.” Rajpal Singh, principal of Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya, Yamuna Vihar, was concerned about how this would be implemented. “A Japanese writer once said Indians were the best planners in the world, but the worst executors,” Singh commented. “We were the first country to adopt family planning and we know what happened during its execution. The problem in assessment is when achievement has to be quantified in terms of numbers and grades.” Usha Ram, former principal, Laxman Public School, too felt CCE had failed because it did not systematically measure core competency and outcomes. That is why Dinesh Singh, former vice-chancellor, Delhi University, stressed that training of teachers is crucial for the success of concepts such as CCE. “First get the curriculum right, don’t include too much. Second, train your teachers well. If you carry your teachers with you by orientating them, CCE shouldn’t be a problem,” suggested Singh. Ram also pointed out that NEP’s aim appeared to be to reduce student stress. “NEP wants a cumulative record, whether you keep recording a student’s qualities, academic or otherwise. The total is the child’s record throughout school,” said Ram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/concerns-over-how-continuous-evaluation-will-fare-this-time/articleshow/77271149.cms||Shradha Chettri
July 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Hospitality body wants hotels, restaurants open till 11pm||CHANDIGARH: While the UT administration has proposed to continue with night curfew in the Unlock 3.0, Chandigarh Hospitality Association (CHA) president Ankit Gupta demanded that hotels and restaurants be allowed to operate till at least 11pm. UT adviser Manoj Parida said that they would hold a meeting on Friday and take a final call on night curfew timings. The association has also submitted to the UT administration and the ministry of home affairs (MHA) that while issuing Unlock 3.0 orders, the MHA has generalised the word “bars”. The association submitted that alcohol services, due to guest demand, were an integral part of hospitality services. It said alcohol services were provided in a hospitality outlet in different areas like room service, a la carte restaurants, lounges, pubs and bars and at larger gatherings, such as banquets and nightclubs. The association concurred that in the current situation, it may not be a good idea to serve alcohol at nightclubs and banquets and the nomenclature in government order should be changed from bars to nightclubs. In its unlock 3.0 order, the MHA has continued to prohibit opening of bars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hospitality-body-wants-hotels-restaurants-open-till-11pm/articleshow/77271140.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
July 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man held with 5,330 empty misbranded antiseptic bottles||AHMEDABAD: While spurious medication is being sold to exploit the Covid-19 situation, Danilimda police on Wednesday detained on Jeetendra Bhavsar, 48, a resident of Gheekanta, with a large quantity empty bottles that were bearing spurious labels of an antiseptic. Police also found fake wheat flour bags mimicking a particular brand and a machine to seal bottles. The accused had been apprehended on Sewage Farm Road in Danilimda. Police detained him and sent him for a pre-arrest Covid test. ACP K division Milap Patel said they intercepted Bhavsar near Dhor Bazaar in Danilimda based on a tip-off. “In a plastic bag that was with him, we found 5,330 empty bottles of antiseptic bearing spurious labels of two companies, 1,800 empty bags of a wheat flour brand and one tapping machine,” said a Danilimda police official. “According to the complaint, the accused confessed that the packaging materials were spurious,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-held-with-5330-empty-misbranded-antiseptic-bottles/articleshow/77271160.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Delhi||HC tells Delhi University to make scribes available for blind students||NEW DELHI: Expressing concern, Delhi high court on Thursday made it clear that it is the responsibility of Delhi University to make scribes available for visually impaired final-year students for the online open book examination (OBE). A bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad also reviewed the mock tests conducted by DU to understand how prepared the varsity is, and found that less than 8% of the total registered students completed the entire process. “This is not encouraging, Nothing before us impresses us, especially for the visually impaired students, the figures are even more abysmal,” the bench remarked, after taking note of DU’s figures that said in the first phase of mock tests, 1.82 lakh registered, but a little over 74,000 logged into the system. The university had told the court earlier that there are 2.5 lakh registered students. On its part, DU informed the court that the data submitted before it on mock test, is only for the first two days and not the entire first phase. The court then sought to know when the second phase of the mock test will end and was told the scheduled date is August 4. After examining the figures, the court asked DU to prepare in a tabulated form, data for the two phases of the mock tests separately and submit before the bench. The court reminded DU that for the visually impaired if scribes are not provided, the entire process will be a “mockery” and ordered DU to clarify its position by the next date of hearing on August 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-tells-du-to-make-scribes-available-for-blind-students/articleshow/77271171.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Gurgaon||FIRs against officials involved in registry of plots in illegal colonies: Dushyant Chautala||GURUGRAM: Now, government officials found involved in irregularities of registry of plots in unauthorised colonies won’t be let off with only suspension or departmental action. Criminal cases will be registered against them, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said on Wednesday. The government will also initiate a vigilance inquiry against such officials. “The divisional commissioner of Gurugram has been asked to investigate the role of officials in irregularities. As soon as I receive the report, strict and swift action will be taken, which won’t be limited to suspension. FIRs will be registered against the officials if they are found guilty,” said Chautala. Officials from the municipal corporation and department of town and country planning also will be booked for their involvement, if there is any, in registry of plots in unauthorised colonies. He said there were some loopholes in the registry process, which the property mafia, in connivance with government officials, was exploiting to execute registry of plots in areas notified as “controlled areas” under Section 7A of Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975. “Registry was stopped to fix the loopholes, upgrade our system and complete the investigation,” the deputy CM said. The excise and revenue department, both of which are fall under Chautala’s purview, are in controversy over the irregularities. “As and when irregularities came to my notice, immediate action was taken. I am working hard to bring meaningful changes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/firs-against-officials-involved-in-registry-of-plots-in-illegal-colonies-chautala/articleshow/77272342.cms||Bagish Jha
July 31, 2020||Vadodara||Bizman held for Rs 10cr GST evasion||Vadodara: A Kanpur-based businessman was arrested for allegedly evading Rs 10 crore GST. CGST officials said the businessman, Neeraj Tiwari, had produced fake invoices and bogus e-way bills to evade GST on the goods he sold. Another businessman Dilshad Alam is also under scanner for helping Tiwari. Tiwari ran Mahalaxmi Transport firm from Halol taluka in Panchmahals district. He used to buy plastic packaging material from Halol without bills and sell the stock in Kanpur. “Tiwari used to fake invoices and bogus e-way bills to show that he had paid the GST. He supplied goods worth Rs 55 crore between April 2018 and July 2020, thus evading Rs 10 crore in tax,” a GST official said. Alam had made eight bogus firms and he used to supply fake invoices and e-way bills for Tiwari, who had had also made three bogus firms. They busted the racket after raiding premises of Mahalaxmi Transport where the officials found a truck full of plastic packaging material without proper documents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bizman-held-for-rs-10cr-gst-evasion/articleshow/77267991.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Chandigarh||12 Pinjore CRPF jawans among 34 positive in Pkl||tnn Panchkula: As many as 34 Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Panchkula on Thursday. With this, the district case count has risen to 532, including 277 active ones.Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Jasjeet Kaur said the 34 cases include 12 Pinjore CRPF jawans.Besides, three from outside the district have tested positive here. They include a 63-year-old man of Peer Muchalla, a 28-year-old man of Dhakoli and a 40-year-old man of Ambala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/12-pinjore-crpf-jawans-among-34-positive-in-pkl/articleshow/77271146.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Solar power: JERC nod sought for ‘people-friendly’ model||CHANDIGARH: With UT administrator V P Singh Badnore approving the Renewable Energy Service Company (Resco) model for installation of rooftop solar plants for residential houses in the city, the UT administration has now moved a petition before the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) seeking its nod for the ambitious project. As the residents were not opting for installation of solar plants because of the initial capital investment, the Chandigarh Renewable Energy and Science & Technology Promotion Society (Crest), the nodal agency for installation of solar plants in the city, decided to install the plants under the Resco model. Crest director Debendra Dalai said to start the project in Chandigarh, the power regulatory authority’s permission is mandatory. They have filed a petition before the JERC and after getting the commission’s nod, they would float tenders to engage firms for the purpose, he added. Under the Resco model, the UT will rope in private companies to install solar plants at private properties. In return, the building owner will be charged a much lesser tariff (Rs 3.44 per unit) for the electricity generated as compared to the normal electricity tariffs (Rs 2.75 to Rs 5.20 per unit). The plant will be installed for a period of around 15 years, after which the house owner will be given its ownership. Before the installation, the building owner and the private company engaged will sign an agreement for the purpose. The plants will be installed under the net metering mode, whereby a solar unit is connected to the electrical connection of the building and energy exported to the grid is adjusted in terms of units imported from the electricity department during a billing cycle. Dalai said the building owner would have to pay Rs 3.44 per unit fixed tariff for 15 years, whereas under the traditional system, the tariff sees some hike every year. Besides, a solar plant has a life of around 25 years, which means, after 15 years for the next 10 years, the building owner would not pay even a single penny for power consumption, he added. Residents having a connected load of 5kWp and more, irrespective of their plot size, can opt for Resco model.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/solar-power-jerc-nod-sought-for-people-friendly-model/articleshow/77271142.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
July 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Thousands in home-isolation left to their own devices||BENGALURU: Days after the BBMP pulled about 2,300 Covid-19 patients from home isolation and shifted them to institutional facilities, more tales of the civic body’s mismanagement are tumbling out. After initially hospitalising all patients, the government allowed asymptomatic patients to stay in home isolation so that more hospital beds could be freed up. However, poor medical support, the BBMP’s job in Bengaluru, is emerging a major problem for those in home isolation. Latish Mishra, a resident of VV Puram, said: “On July 26, I tested positive and since then I am in home isolation, but nobody from BBMP has called me or extended support in any way. In the absence of any medical advice, my son gets me paracetamol from a local store,” Mishra said. TOI looks at three reasons why BBMP is failing in implementing the norm effectively. Lack of medicine supplyCurrently, about 16,000 patients in Bengaluru are in home isolation, but BBMP hasn’t been unable to supply medicines to all of them. “When people were in institutional quarantine, we supplied medicines and kept a proper record. But now, we aren’t able to keep tabs,” admitted a senior health official. Since paracetamol is used for all kinds of fever, the demand for it has increased. Even non-Covid-19 patients are taking the same medicine, resulting in lack of supply, the official said. While BBMP says its 26-member call centre is dialling at least 2,000 patients every day to check on their health, several patients said that they are forced to opt for private hospital packages since they are not getting the required consultation. Lack of manpower There are currently 20,000 people volunteering to monitor those in home isolation, but that is not enough, officials say. With increasing cases, fatigue is also setting in. “The surge has spread fear among our officials and many booth-level officials have backed out. This has made inspection impossible,” said another health official. Many have failed to report for work because of fear of infection. Since they are being replaced with new faces, there is no continuity in execution on the ground, he added. Elusive Covid-19 kits A week ago, the BBMP commissioner Manjunatha Prasad had said a private organisation would distribute Covid-19 kits to those in home isolation, but not a single kit has been delivered so far. The kits were to contain a pulse-oximeter, a thermometer and medicines. At a recent council meeting, it was decided Rs 20 lakh would be given to ward committees to distribute kits. But only 50 of the 198 ward committees have met the target, said Prasad. “There is a new plan now. The data that earlier went to zonal heads will now go to ward-level officers. The local councillor will be involved in distributing the kits,” Prasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/thousands-in-home-isolation-left-to-their-own-devices/articleshow/77269657.cms||Nithya Mandyam
July 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat police to raise special anti-riot vanguard squad||AHMEDABAD: The state police will will raise a new force, the Gujarat Anti-Riot Vanguard (GARV) Squad, which will have 192 officers and other ranks, capable of dispersing large, hostile mobs efficiently with use of the best technology and training, while maintaining the highest standards of human rights and causing least casualties. The squad will also be equipped with sniper rifles, to dominate areas from heights. According to the office memorandum issued by DGP Shivanand Jha, the squad will also act as a catalyst of change in other police units by training them and demonstrating the proper handling of law and order situations. Three units of GARV are to be created. The GARV squad will have an armed deputy superintendent of police, four unarmed inspectors, 14 armed sub-inspectors, three wireless sub-inspectors and radio technicians and 170 other ranks. According to the memorandum, each unit will have one wireless sub-inspector and six MT drivers. The other ranks should be provided by the additional DGP, armed units. Six personnel of assistant sub-inspector and head constable rank will perform administrative duties. Four horses and four dogs will be deputed to GARV.The squad will be equipped with of world-standard riot-control gear such as micro-drones, plastic handcuffs, Tasers etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-police-to-raise-special-anti-riot-vanguard-squad/articleshow/77271167.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Bareilly||116 trainee SIs test positive for Covid-19 at Police Training College in Moradabad||Bareilly: At least 52 more trainee sub-inspectors (SI) have tested positive for Covid-19 at the Police Training College (PTC) in Moradabad on Thursday. The health department had conducted rapid antigen tests to ensure increased testing and early detection of Novel Coronavirus among the people. On Tuesday, at least 64 people had tested positive at the PTC campus. More rapid testing was conducted later and the reports have revealed 52 new cases. All 116 trainees were head constables and got promoted as SIs, which necessitated them to undergo training at the PTC. The district health department on Wednesday conducted rapid antigen tests on as many as 131 trainee SIs at the PTC located at Kanth road, for quick diagnosis of Covid-19 and of these, as many as 52 SIs, who underwent the tests, were found positive. Moradabad's chief medical officer (CMO) Dr MC Garg told TOI, “Considering the consistent rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the district, the health department is on its toes to ensure testing is done more often and positive cases get diagnosed at the earliest for timely treatment. For the purpose, rapid antigen testing was initiated recently. After a positive case of Covid came to light at the PTC recently, we decided to conduct tests on a few other trainees for the virus.” The CMO added, “With increased number of cases at PTC, we have developed a Covid facility at a hostel within the PTC premises for the treatment of new cases. Most of these cases at PTC are asymptomatic.” District nodal officer Dr Dinesh Kumar said, “The health department authorities have deputed nursing staff and doctors at the premises. To ensure that other Covid care centres and wards are not overcrowded, the decision was taken to make a L-1 facility within the PTC premises.” On Monday, as many as 64 trainee SIs at the PTC were tested positive after rapid antigen testing was conducted on 130 cops. Around 15 patients with comorbidities were admitted at the Teerthanker Mahaveer Medical College and Research Centre while others were admitted to other Covid centres in the district. The district health department has set up rapid antigen testing camps in parts of Moradabad. Special camps are also being set up across the district, which has so far reported 1,649 cases — with 605 active ones. Nearly 900 people have recovered and discharged while 52 have succumbed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/116-trainee-sis-test-positive-for-covid-19-at-police-training-college-in-moradabad/articleshow/77268364.cms||Maria Khan
July 31, 2020||Chandigarh||2 held in case of murder of Raipur Rani man, 23||Panchkula: Twelve days after a 23-year-old man was found dead in his car in Raipur Rani, police on Thursday claimed to have made two arrests in his murder case. Those arrested have been identified as Sandeep alias Ganja and Jagdeep, both residents of Hangola village of Raipur Rani. On July 18, Mahavir Singh, 58, a resident of Sarakpur village, Raipur Rani, had said in his police complaint, “My son Arun Kumar, a farmer, left home around 2.30pm in his Maruti Swift Dzire sedan (HR-03W-1731) after his friends came to visit him in a car (CH-01Y-8566).” Arun’s cousin Rahul had told Mahavir that four men had come to meet him – Jagdeep, Sandeep and two others. When Arun did not return till evening, Mahavir started looking for him and later found his partially clothed body in his car in Hangola village. The body bore no injury marks. His viscera samples were sent to Madhuban laboratory to find out if poisoning led to his death. On Mahavir’s complaint, police had registered a case under sections 302 (punishment for murder) and 34 (act done by several persons with same intention) of the IPC against four of Arun’s friends.Raipur Rani SHO inspector Ram Pal said, “Two of the accused have been arrested. The court has sent them to judicial custody.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-held-in-case-of-murder-of-raipur-rani-man-23/articleshow/77271153.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP real estate sector seeks infusion of sops for revival||Incentives from the state government, including rebate in stamp duty and building fee, coupled with better focus on strengthening warehousing and tourism projects, can go a long way in reviving Andhra Pradesh’s realty sector. This was mooted by the participants during the session on ‘Real Estate: Building Hopes, Rebuilding Lives and Businesses’ on Thursday as part of TOI’s virtual conclave — Reboot Andhra Pradesh: Making Andhra Pradesh Future Positive — which is supported by Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd, Vizag Special Economic Zone, Eastern Power Distribution Company of AP Ltd, Coastal Local Area Bank and TNR Talent High School. “In a time of crisis like this, if the government can provide a one-time relief on such fee it will not only boost the morale of the market, but will also help bring in more investments to the state,” said Chigurupati Sudhakar, president, CREDAI-AP. While he also recommended setting up of skill development centres to tackle the labour shortage currently plaguing the industry, AP’s commissioner and director of municipal administration, Vijay Kumar G SRKR, said the state has already addressed the issue. “The chief minister has announced 25 skill development centres and one skill development university for this purpose,” he said. Abhishek Dutta, founder & CEO of Alliance Spaces, called for setting up of warehousing facilities and logistics parks, while also strengthening the tourism sector. Saurabh Mehrotra, national director-advisory, Knight Frank, said “AP must cash in on its huge coastline and manpower to position itself as a major manufacturing hub. It will uplift the real estate market eventually,” he said. P Koteswara Rao, chairman of CREDAI’s Visakhapatnam chapter, pointed out how the spiralling cost of cement and sand has become a cause of concern. “Ultimately, we also need to create a positive environment. The onus falls on both the government and senior officials so that people coming to the state for work feel welcome,” added G Yoganand, chairman and managing director of Manjeera Group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-real-estate-sector-seeks-infusion-of-sops-for-revival/articleshow/77269623.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Where there’s no will, there are many heirs||NEW DELHI: Where there’s a will, there is a way. But the problem with Krishna Khanna’s case is that she left no legacy papers behind at the time of her death in 2014. For six years since, the Economic Offences Wing has been dealing with people laying claim to properties worth several crores of rupees that the elderly woman left behind in various parts of the city. The cops believed at one point they had closed the case until the documents were proved to be counterfeits. Khanna was 65 years old when she died in 2014 without a legal heir. Having lived alone most of her life, her last rites were conducted by Arvind Dhingra, the owner of a grocery store who ensured she never lacked for daily essentials. With no known heir, the properties went into the Delhi government’s custody. In 2017, Dhingra produced a will and claimed to be Khanna’s heir and the court too decided the probate in his favour. The case was seemingly closed until a former Delhi government administrator of properties confided his suspicions about foul play. The said will that Dhingra proffered was sent for forensic and handwriting analysis, and the signature of the dead woman was deemed to be forged. The police arrested Dhingra on charges of forgery, cheating and misleading a court and the search began anew to find Khanna’s legal heirs. O P Mishra, joint CP, Economic Offences Wing, revealed, “A team led by inspector Bijay Kumar has been formed to go through the claims to the woman’s estate. The documents at the deceased’s house are also being scrutinised.” Police have requested Delhi government not to allow the sale of Khanna’s properties and have also sealed her bank accounts. A probe is under way to determine whether money was withdrawn from these accounts by any of the claimants. Khanna had inherited the properties from her parents and three elder brothers who all died 30-40 years ago. These included houses in Kailash Colony, Pitampura, Gulabi Bagh, Uttam Nagar, Vikaspuri and Sarai Julena and fixed deposits of several lakh rupees. In court, Dhingra claimed he used to take care of the woman and had admitted her to a private hospital when she suffered a heart attack in January 2014. He insisted that Khanna dictated the will to him before her death in the hospital and produced a hand-written note to prove his claim in court. But the cops found from the hospital that during her entire stay there, Khanna had been unconscious. When Dhingra stuck to his claims, police filed a writ for the production of the original copy of the will. After some persuasion, Dhingra agreed to submit the document, which, on subsequent forensic examination, was found to be faked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/case-of-heiress-who-didnt-leave-a-will/articleshow/77271217.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
July 31, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Idukki pastor visits 60 houses, tests +ve||IDUKKI: A pastor of the Pentecostal church, who conducted prayer meetings in over 60 houses inside a containment zone in Idukki's Peerumade Panchayat has tested positive for Covid-19. He reportedly 'held hands on the head' for recovery of a woman who was under quarantine in Pambanar and later tested positive. Her brother who attended the prayer has also contracted the virus. According to health officials, the pastor had ignored repeated warnings and he had to be forcefully admitted to a quarantine centre at Peerumade. The pastor is a resident of the ward 13 of Pattumala in Peerumade Panchayat, which was turned into a containment zone after a resident tested positive. After the pastor tested positive the health department directed the families where he led prayers to go into quarantine. Peermade CI C S Sivakumar said he has been booked under the Epidemic Diseases Act. Idukki district medical officer Dr N Priya confirmed that the pastor contracted the virus through the local transmission. "The health department has started to track the pastor's contacts," said Dr Priya. Meanwhile, five from a family in Cheruthoni were among the six that tested positive in Idukki district on Thursday. All of them had contracted the virus through local transmission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/idukki-pastor-visits-60-houses-tests-ve/articleshow/77269676.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Chandigarh||38 +ve, Chandigarh case count crosses 1,000-mark||Chandigarh: As many as 38 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported in Chandigarh on Thursday. With this, the UT caseload has crossed the 1,000-mark to settle at 1,016. Of these, six cases are from Manimajra; four each from Dhanas and Sector 40; three from Sector 46; two each from Kishangarh, PGI and Sector 26 and one each from sectors 10, 11, 12, 15, 25, 33, 38, 39, 48, 52, Dhanas, Burail, Khuda Lahora, Khuda Jassu, and Mauli Jagran. Chandigarh has 355 active cases and 647 have been cured. The disease has claimed 14 lives so far.24 new cases take Mohali tally to 822 tnnMohali: Mohali witnessed 24 new Covid-19 positive cases on Thursday. The district’s case count has now climbed to 822.They include five residents of Mohali city; seven from Derabassi; six from Zirakpur; three from Kharar; one each from Kurali, Mullanpur and Siswan. Besides, 15 patients were cured and discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital, said civil surgeon Dr Manjit Singh. Of them, seven are from Kharar, four from Mohali city, three from Derabassi and one from Zirakpur. Mohali has 312 active cases. So far, 496 have been cured and 14 have died. Mohali lags in recovery rate (60.34%) as compared to Chandigarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/38-ve-chandigarh-case-count-crosses-1000-mark/articleshow/77271178.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
July 31, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Gyms, yoga centres split on decision to reopen||KOLKATA: A day after the Union home ministry said that yoga centres will be allowed to operate from August 5, institutes in Kolkata decided to play safe till the curve flattens a bit. While some of them will start conducting classes in a restricted way from August 5, others will remain closed for a while. Muktamala Mitra, vice-principal of one of the oldest yoga institutes in Kolkata — Ghosh’s Yoga College, said they planned to open the centre from August 5, unless there is any directive from the state government. “We have a large hall where three students per batch will be accommodated. There will be enough space to maintain social distancing norms. Each student will be checked with thermal gun, the mats and charts will be sanitized before they enter the hall. Apart from that, we shall conduct fumigation at regular intervals,” Mitra said. Sudhir Maheswari, founder of Mystic Yoga Studio, said they wanted to wait for a while before they opened the centre for people. So far, the institute has been conducting classes via video streaming platforms. “We would wait for the curve to flatten a bit. The challenge is identifying asymptomatic patients. Even if we reopen, it will be restricted and without air conditioner,” he said. The centre will wait for the Standard Operating Procedure from the ministry of health and family welfare. For many, the choice is between safety and getting back to normal. “It is still a choice between yoga and life. Union home ministry must have had a plan. But what if a student is asymptomatic and others get infected. On the other hand, reopening centres is vital for the livelihood of hundreds of trainers,” said Tushar Sil, president of West Bengal Council of Yoga and Naturopathy. Experts said it was not possible to perform yoga wearing a face mask. Maheswari felt that breathing was an important part of yoga and a student follows a rhythm attuned with breathing while he practices yoga postures. “It is better that a student practices at a safe environment at home,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/gyms-yoga-centres-split-on-decision-to-reopen/articleshow/77271199.cms||Rohit Khanna
July 31, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Pvt hosps call for aid to battle staff, funds crunch||Following growing outrage over private hospitals turning away Covid as well as non-Covid patients, healthcare industry experts said a crumbling infrastructure and massive staff crunch are taking a toll on the overall healthcare system in the state. Andhra Pradesh recorded over 10,000 Covid cases for two successive days (Wednesday and Thursday), the day’s highest for any state in the country. “The reality is that we do not have personnel. The nurses and paramedical staff, who have gone to their respective home towns, are not coming back. There is an atmosphere of fear. These are causing a major issue for hospitals,” said Dr S Ajai Kumar, CEO & founder chairman of HealthCare Global Enterprises Ltd, during Thursday’s session on ‘Healthcare: Nursing Healthcare Back to Life’ as part of TOI’s Reboot Andhra Pradesh conclave, which is supported by RINL in association with VSEZ, Eastern Power Distribution Company of AP, Coastal Local Area Bank and TNR Talent High School. Besides staff crunch, private hospitals are also battling financial woes, Kumar said, pointing out that it takes months for the government to clear Aarogyasri payments, whereas the hospitals have imminent financial needs as well as obligations such as paying bills and salaries that cause stress. “Some kind of stimulus should be given... only clapping and lighting the lamp is not enough. Without financial support many private hospitals will close,” he added. Dr PV Sudhakar, special officer for Covid in north coastal AP & principal of Andhra Medical College (AMC), said the government is aware about the issues and is working towards resolving them. “In north coastal AP, particularly Visakhapatnam district, I can assure all private hospitals that the manpower they have asked for has already been identified. In fact, today itself we have deployed 470 staff nurses to various hospitals and the other cadres too will be given to them,” he said. Highlighting that there is a trust deficit between the government and private hospitals, Dr Muralikrishna Voonna, MD & chief surgical oncologist, Mahatma Gandhi Cancer Hospital, said the government did not allow any private player to test or treat Covid patients during the lockdown period, as a result of which private players could not prepare themselves to be able to manage the Covid-19 burden in the coming days. This, according to him, was the reason many private players were overwhelmed by the disease burden in the ensuing months. Taking note of the challenges being faced by healthcare players, Dr PV Ramesh, additional chief secretary to AP CM, said healthcare players and the government will have to prepare for the long haul as the vaccine is only expected to be launched by March next year. “It is high time the public understand that they will have to strictly adhere to safety norms such as wearing masks and physical distancing to stay safe,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/pvt-hosps-call-for-aid-to-battle-staff-funds-crunch/articleshow/77269672.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Manimajra, Dhanas turn into major Covid-19 hotspots||CHANDIGARH: With Covid-19 positive cases coming daily, Manimajra and Dhanas have turned out to be biggest hotspots in the city after Bapu Dham colony in Sector 26. As per records, Manimajra has witnessed a total of 52 cases till Wednesday, while 49 cases have also been reported from different areas of Dhanas. Since, both these places are populated and a majority of the area is congested, the authorities concerned have to focus on these new emerging hotspots. Not only these, over a thousand contacts of the positive people have been quarantined so far, of which, many are still under observation by the health authorities. “With alarming situation emerging throughout the city due to increasing Covid-19 positive cases, Manimajra and Dhanas too have emerged as major hotspots as maximum cases are being reported from here now after Bapu Dham colony. Two to three cases are being reported from these areas regularly from the past over a couple of weeks,” said an official. The health department of the Chandigarh administration has kicked-off its second round of door-to-door health screening of residents. Till date, multiple teams of the health department have covered different parts of the city, which includes Manimajra. Door-to-door survey is being conducted in Mauli Jagran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/manimajra-dhanas-turn-into-major-hotspots/articleshow/77271201.cms||Deepak Yadav
July 31, 2020||Kolkata||Rly min steps in after nurse plaint on abusive husband||Kolkata: A nursing staff of Eastern Railway (ER) posted at Howrah Orthopaedic Hospital has knocked on the door of railway minister Piyush Goyal, seeking protection from her abusive husband. In response to her tweet, Goyal directed senior ER officials, including the chief medical director of the hospital, to take steps. The woman has also lodged a complaint at Howrah police station. The woman tweeted that she was a Covid warrior and faced severe harassment at home; her husband had also been turning up at her workplace and abusing her mentally and physically. Her seniors at the hospital were aware of her predicament, she claimed. Senior ER officials in Howrah said they were aware of her situation and had tried to help her as much as possible. She lodged a police complaint on May 24. Police confirmed a complaint under Section 498A was registered against the husband. The two got married in 2018 after which she realized he was an alcoholic with no regular source of income. “We have questioned her husband. She apparently wants a divorce but he doesn’t. We have warned the husband against abusing her. The court will take a final decision,” a police officer in Howrah said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rly-min-steps-in-after-nurse-plaint-on-abusive-husband/articleshow/77271204.cms||Jayanta Gupta
July 31, 2020||Thane||Thane Mental Hospital’s inmate for 43 years, 1 new patient die of Covid-19||MUMBAI: An 80-year-old woman who was at the Thane Mental Hospital for the past 43 years and a male inmate admitted in February became the first two victims from the institution to succumb to Covid-19 in a week. The deaths have highlighted the unique challenges of infection control in the state’s four mental health institutions, where most patients are incapable of understanding social distancing and hygiene norms. The four institutions in Thane, Pune, Nagpur and Ratnagiri together have more than 2,500 in-patients. Apart from the recent deaths in the Thane hospital, one inmate from the Regional Mental Hospital, Yerwada, has tested positive and was critically ill until a few days ago. The hospitals in Nagpur and Ratnagiri have not seen any infections thus far. Thane and Pune hospitals have seen infections in about 15 staffers each. The octogenarian could never be reunited with her family as her identity was unknown till the end, said hospital authorities. She was admitted to Global Hub Hospital in Thane after she developed breathlessness and died on July 26. The 48-year-old male patients was suspected of Covid after he collapsed in the ward. He was admitted to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital, Kalwa, on July 16, where he was detected with pneumonia. He died on July 21. “Both of them were intellectually disabled. The woman developed complications due to her age. She was here for over four decades and was like family. The male patient was here since February,” said Dr Sanjay Bodade, superintendent, Thane Mental Hospital. After the two patients tested positive, the hospital authorities are faced with one of their biggest challenges. “None of the Covid hospitals wanted to admit our patients as they are not self-sufficient. We had to send our staffers to stay with them,” said director Dr Sadhana Tayade of the Directorate of Health Services (DHS), Maharashtra. Well aware of how the infection could rapidly spread even if one inmate was infected, Dr Tayade said they have been trying to impose protocols. “It’s easier said than done though. Many can’t carry out their own hygiene tasks while some refuse to be dressed. How will you explain to them that they need to wear a mask? If we put soap on their hands, some try to chew on it,” said Dr Tayade. Yet, she said, staffers have been trying to ensure they wash hands every half hour. “We have been fortunate to restrict the infection to only three,” she said, adding there are also daily temperature and oxygen level checks. Thane hospital has also created two rooms for inmates who show any symptoms. For staffers and new patients, more stringent protocols have been put in place. In Thane, where 14 employees have tested positive and one female employee died last month, the authorities have made arrangements to accommodate them on campus. “They are not allowed in without temperature checks and sent back even if they have mildest of symptoms,” said Dr Tayade. All these hospitals have also created a holding ward for new admissions. “A new patient who comes with a Covid-negative report is quarantined for seven days while one who doesn’t have a report is kept there for two weeks,” said Dr Abhijeet Phadnis, medical superintendent of Yerwada hospital, adding while admissions have declined 30-40%, OPD services have been resumed with minimal staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/thane-mental-hosps-inmate-for-43-yrs-1-new-patient-die-of-covid/articleshow/77275472.cms||Shrutika Sukhi
July 31, 2020||Mumbai||Thane Mental Hospital’s inmate for 43 years, 1 new patient die of Covid-19||MUMBAI: An 80-year-old woman who was at the Thane Mental Hospital for the past 43 years and a male inmate admitted in February became the first two victims from the institution to succumb to Covid-19 in a week. The deaths have highlighted the unique challenges of infection control in the state’s four mental health institutions, where most patients are incapable of understanding social distancing and hygiene norms. The four institutions in Thane, Pune, Nagpur and Ratnagiri together have more than 2,500 in-patients. Apart from the recent deaths in the Thane hospital, one inmate from the Regional Mental Hospital, Yerwada, has tested positive and was critically ill until a few days ago. The hospitals in Nagpur and Ratnagiri have not seen any infections thus far. Thane and Pune hospitals have seen infections in about 15 staffers each. The octogenarian could never be reunited with her family as her identity was unknown till the end, said hospital authorities. She was admitted to Global Hub Hospital in Thane after she developed breathlessness and died on July 26. The 48-year-old male patients was suspected of Covid after he collapsed in the ward. He was admitted to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital, Kalwa, on July 16, where he was detected with pneumonia. He died on July 21. “Both of them were intellectually disabled. The woman developed complications due to her age. She was here for over four decades and was like family. The male patient was here since February,” said Dr Sanjay Bodade, superintendent, Thane Mental Hospital. After the two patients tested positive, the hospital authorities are faced with one of their biggest challenges. “None of the Covid hospitals wanted to admit our patients as they are not self-sufficient. We had to send our staffers to stay with them,” said director Dr Sadhana Tayade of the Directorate of Health Services (DHS), Maharashtra. Well aware of how the infection could rapidly spread even if one inmate was infected, Dr Tayade said they have been trying to impose protocols. “It’s easier said than done though. Many can’t carry out their own hygiene tasks while some refuse to be dressed. How will you explain to them that they need to wear a mask? If we put soap on their hands, some try to chew on it,” said Dr Tayade. Yet, she said, staffers have been trying to ensure they wash hands every half hour. “We have been fortunate to restrict the infection to only three,” she said, adding there are also daily temperature and oxygen level checks. Thane hospital has also created two rooms for inmates who show any symptoms. For staffers and new patients, more stringent protocols have been put in place. In Thane, where 14 employees have tested positive and one female employee died last month, the authorities have made arrangements to accommodate them on campus. “They are not allowed in without temperature checks and sent back even if they have mildest of symptoms,” said Dr Tayade. All these hospitals have also created a holding ward for new admissions. “A new patient who comes with a Covid-negative report is quarantined for seven days while one who doesn’t have a report is kept there for two weeks,” said Dr Abhijeet Phadnis, medical superintendent of Yerwada hospital, adding while admissions have declined 30-40%, OPD services have been resumed with minimal staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/thane-mental-hosps-inmate-for-43-yrs-1-new-patient-die-of-covid/articleshow/77271147.cms||Shrutika Sukhi
July 31, 2020||Kolkata||Schools flag concerns over NEP implementation||Kolkata: Heads of schools across the state termed the new National Education Policy as “progressive, multi-disciplinary and students’ friendly” but also raised concerns over the government’s plans to implement such an ambitious policy and how would the schools which are already stretched for resources overhaul their social and physical infrastructure. The cabinet on Wednesday cleared the new National Education Policy restructuring school and higher education system providing more flexibility to students, no rigid separation between different streams in higher education system and making exams a “test of core competencies”. “The new education policy is progressive and forward looking. The multidisciplinary approach along with involvement of technology will benefit the future generations. The entry and exit points and vocational courses for students are a welcome change. But we need a good groundwork before implementing the new education policy. Every child must get a fair opportunity and foundation to decide what he or she wants to opt for,” said Father Rodney Borneo, president of heads of Anglo Indian Schools in West Bengal and principal of Loyola High School. “We have only read the salient features and are yet to lay our hands on the full document, but the first impression is that this was the need of the hour. The NEP focuses on multidisciplinary courses, multilingual and digital learning, a revised curricular structure, reduced course load, and a pre-primary education curriculum. But this can only benefit the students if it is implemented in totality,” said Saswati Adhikary, principal of Bethune Collegiate School. Principal of a CBSE school who did not wish to be named said schools will not only need a complete overhaul of their infrastructure but will also have to figure out sources to generate more funds to pay salaries to teachers and resource persons. “For example, out of 40 students in a class three opt for wielding, eight students want to study French, 15 want to go in for basics of marine science and rest want to take up carpentry. The schools will have to hire teachers for these subjects but how will they pay their salaries? Where is the space to build laboratories?” asked the principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-flag-concerns-over-nep-implementation/articleshow/77271221.cms||Zeeshan Javed
July 31, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata civic body sets down SOP to ease cremation woes||KOLKATA: The civic body on Thursday stepped in to solve a problem plaguing families that have lost relatives at home. Due to the Covid scare, they are allegedly being denied death certificates by registered medical practitioners, which is leading to delays in cremation. From Friday, the KMC borough and ward coordinators will have to keep track of every death — both Covid and non-Covid — which may occur at homes within their jurisdictions. “If a registered medical practitioner refuses to write a death certificate, the ward coordinator will alert the civic authorities. The KMC brass will arrange for a proper post-mortem at a medical college and hospital to enable the family to cremate the deceased,” said Firhad Hakim, chairman, board of administrators governing the KMC. Hakim asked ward coordinators of south Kolkata to report directly to him while ward coordinators from north and central have been told to alert Atin Ghosh, a member of the KMC BOA. At a meeting at the KMC headquarters on Thursday, Hakim, state home secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay, city police commissioner Anuj Sharma and others took stock of this problem and sought to solve it by roping in the KMC ward coordinators and OCs of local police stations. They interacted with the KMC borough and ward coordinators through a virtual conference. The coordinators have been asked to take help from OCs of the local police stations in identifying the deceased and help mitigate unjustified protests by locals. A KMC health department official said the recent rows in several places over refusal of physicians to provide death certificates — including at Sahapur in Behala and Topsia — prompted the civic brass to rope in ward coordinators and cops to help families. Besides taking care of the deceased, the ward coordinators and cops will also need to keep an eye on availability of ambulances to take the serious Covid patients to hospital without delay. “We have interacted with the ward coordinators on this issue and sought their help in arranging ambulances for taking serious Covid-patients to hospital on time,” Bandopadhyay said. Bandopadhyay also laid stress on arranging for hearses. Hakim said the ward coordinators could contact the civic headquarters for ambulances or hearses if they are not available at the ward level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ward-coordinators-cops-to-track-deaths-at-home/articleshow/77271159.cms||Saikat Ray
July 31, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Private doctors to join government teams for visits to Covid hospitals, safe homes||KOLKATA: Teams comprising government and private doctors have been asked to visit Covid hospitals, satellite health facilities and safe homes on a regular basis to coordinate the management of patients with the health department. This is the first time that the state has roped in private doctors to assist and advise as part of the government’s Covid coordinating team. The state health department has drawn up names of nearly 100 doctors, about 40 of them attached with private hospitals, who will form teams with at least three specialists and visit Covid hospitals. The teams are also expected to interact with the doctors and hospital administrators at the spot to advice them on better treatment and patient management. The teams will submit their reports and recommendations to the health department after each visit. “Participation, contribution and inputs from experienced private doctors in this hour of crisis will be of great help,” said an official. The list of doctors from the private sector consists many who are directly involved in the treatment of Covid patients in their own set up, like pulmonologist Raja Dhar of Fortis Hospital, critical care specialists Sauren Panja, Arindam Kar and Susruta Banerjee of RTIICS, Belle Vue and AMRI Salt Lake, and internal medicine specialist Syamasis Bandyopadhyay of Apollo. “The fight against Covid has to be a joint effort between the public and private healthcare sectors,” said Kar. In addition to many doctors from IMA (West Bengal), representatives from West Bengal Doc-tor Forum will also be part of the teams. In a similar way, the health department has also enlisted a combination of government and private doctors for the other districts who will work in similar fashion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pvt-docs-to-join-govt-teams-for-visits-to-cov-hosps-safe-homes/articleshow/77271179.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 31, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata restaurants yearn for late closure to boost business||KOLKATA: Restaurateurs in the city are keen to revise their timings from August 1 with late closures. With the curfew hours currently between 10pm and 5am, many restaurants down shutters at 9.30pm. Several of them are now willing to now operate till 11pm or even later. However, there was some confusion over a state government notification on Thursday that did not spell out the withdrawal of the night curfewfrom August 1. Speaking to TOI, Rajiv Kothari — who owns multiple restaurants on Park Street, including Bar-B-Q — said the current 10pm closing time wasn’t conducive for dining out and that a late closure would be a welcome relief. Rishi Bajoria, the director franchisee for tex-mex international restaurant Chili’s, too felt the early closure discouraged diners. “Traditionally, restaurants in Kolkata do more business in the evening than in the afternoon. The restriction in evening hours has adversely affected business. We want to push back the closure till at least 11pm,” he said. Nitin Kothari, who owns Mocambo and Peter Cat on Park Street, is also enthused about the prospect of late closure, particularly with many of the lockdown days affecting weekend business. Even malls are keen to stay open till late to enable restaurants to operate. South City Mall vice-president Manmohan Bagree said the mall was planning to extend the closing hour from 10pm to 11.30pm. “We had initially thought the complete lockdown would scare people, leading to a crash in footfall and sales. But Sunday was the best single-day sales we recorded at the foodcourt. In fact, it was 15% more than the previous best,” said Bagree. However, with the state home department notification on Thursday not specifying the withdrawal of night curfew, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Eastern India secretary Suresh Poddar said he was sceptical of the late closure benefits its in the current scenario. “I have seen business drop by 70% in the past couple of weeks against the first few weekends in June. For business to pick up, the overall mood must improve. That will happen only when the cases curve hits a plateau,” said Poddar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/restaurants-yearn-for-late-closure-to-boost-biz/articleshow/77271203.cms||Subhro Niyogi
July 31, 2020||Agra||11th century Pratihara-era temple relics found by farmer digging field||Agra: A farmer in Nauni village of Jagner block, 70 km from Agra city, stumbled upon the relics of an 11th century Pratihara-era temple while he was digging a fish pond in his field. After he alerted the local authorities, district magistrate Prabhu N Singh ordered the area to be cordoned off and asked the Archaeological Survey of India officials to examine the finds.R K Singh, ASI’s assistant superintendent for Agra, said, “We will send our team to Jagner to examine the relics and explore the site on Friday.However, at first glance, the shared pictures of the discovered stones suggest that it’s part of Hindu temple probably belonging to 11th century.”Speaking about the relics, professor Sugam Anand, head of the department of history and culture, Agra University, said, “Prima facie, it is a set of two amalakas made of sandstone. There is one lamp post as well, which is generally found at the entrance of a temple.”An amalaka is a segmented or notched stone disk, usually with ridges on the rim, that sits on the top of a Hindu temple’s shikhara or main tower. According to one interpretation, the amalaka represents a lotus, and thus the symbolic seat for the deity below.Professor Manvendra Kumar Pundhir, director of archaeological section at Aligarh Muslim University’s Centre of Advanced Study in History, said, “This would be the first discovery of a Pratihara-era temple structure across the Chambal river near Aravalli hill. Jagner is an area rich in sandstones and a waterbody near the discovery of the relics hints at the possibility of a large temple complex beneath the soil.”He said, “A deeper study of the recovered relics will give us more details about the structure, such as whether the temple has mortise and tenon joints or not. In the Gupta period, the temples had a single room or garbha, but during the Pratihara era, it had extended to five rooms, including garbhagriha, mandap, bhog, like the Lord Ram temple in Ayodhya. We have abundant evidence of Pratihara temples in Madhya Pradesh’s Morena, Datia and Bhind, but this would be the first temple of the era here.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/11th-century-pratihara-era-temple-relics-found-by-farmer-digging-field/articleshow/77269687.cms||Arvind Chauhan
July 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man duped of cellphone in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A 23-year-old man from the Danilimda area of city on Thursday filed a complaint with Vasna police that an unknown person had duped him by taking away his cellphone while giving him a lift. Sanjay Solanki, a resident of Danilimda, stated that he was waiting for bus at Khodiyalnagar bus stand, when a man on a motorcycle offered to drop him near Guptanagar. Convinced by his words, Solanki sat on the pillion and took the lift.  On the way, the man told Solanki that he would need some paan masala and and sent Solanki to buy it from a roadside stall. At that time, he asked Solanki if he could give his cellphone as he needed to make a call. Solanki gave him his cellphone and went to buy pan masala. But as he stepped away from the motorcycle, the unknown man sped away taking the cellphone with him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-duped-of-cellphone/articleshow/77271218.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Vijayawada||‘NEP 2020 endorses AP govt’s stance on edu’||Vijayawada: Education minister Adimulapu Suresh on Thursday said the National Education Policy (NEP), 2020 includes many of the recommendations made by the state government. The minister said chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has visualised a level playing field for all students, in which education is accessible, affordable, promotes equity and accountability and is of a certain quality. These concerns are reflected in NEP 2020, Suresh said. The chief minister has been advocating that poverty should not be a barrier to higher education and the policy states that no one should be deprived of education, Suresh said. The Amma Vodi scheme has incentivised mothers to send their children to school and the NEP talks about promoting cash transfers to bring down the dropout rate. “Our government has brought in a legislation to monitor and regulate the education in corporate education institutions and the NEP clearly states that education is not a commercial activity,” Suresh said. The minister added, “Our chief minister was the first to say the degree course should be for four years and announced the pre-primary 1 and pre-primary 2 which were echoed in the new policy,.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/nep-2020-endorses-ap-govts-stance-on-edu/articleshow/77269697.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||Issue Covid notifications for Bakri Eid in all districts: Gujarat HC||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Thursday ordered the state government to ensure police superintendents in each district immediately issue notifications, as already done by the Ahmedabad police commissioner, to control gatherings on Bakri Eid this year. Keeping in mind the need to check the spread of Covid-19, the Ahmedabad police commissioner had issued a notification imposing Section 144 CrPC on the day of Eid-ul-Adha (Bakri Eid) to prevent unsafe gatherings. The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala issued the order while refusing to entertain and disposing of two PILs which had asked for a complete ban on animal slaughter on the day of Bakri Eid to prevent spread of Covid-19. The state government had opposed the petitions and submitted that the notification issued in Ahmedabad by the police commissioner in this regard was sufficient. The judges said that looking at the Ahmedabad police commissioner’s notification the HC was not required to adjudicate the issue of slaughter ban any further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/issue-covid-notifications-for-bakri-eid-in-all-districts-hc/articleshow/77271229.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Kolkata||In Kolkata, cremation delayed by 18 hours as locals stop kin from moving body||KOLKATA: The death of a 71-year-old woman in Beniapukur’s Christopher Road area led to an argument between her family and locals over removal of the body on Wednesday. With the local police and administration allegedly refusing to provide immediate help, the body ended up lying at the residence for close to 18 hours. It was only after local MLA Swarnakamal Saha intervened and arranged for the last rites following Covid protocol that the situation was brought under control. According to sources, the victim had developed Covid-like symptoms and on the locals’ insistence, a test was conducted and the report said she was Covid positive. After news of her death broke around 5.30pm on Wednesday, around 400 locals waited for over two hours near the residence, hoping for administrative intervention to remove the body. However, the impasse continued till Thursday afternoon. “The report stated she was Covid positive on July 26. On July 29, she died. The family is claiming they have a death certificate saying she was Covid negative and they had hired an ambulance to take her body. We do not believe the documents are genuine. We wanted her body to be removed by KMC and police according to Covid protocol,” a local said. The family said relatives managed to arrive only after 10pm since it was a lockdown day. When they tried to take the body for cremation, locals blocked their exit. “We told them she was Covid negative, but they refused to listen,” a relative said. Saha said he went to the house around 11am after hearing about the family’s plight. “She had been admitted to a nursing home but came back after she ran out of money. I understand the people’s concerns, but we cannot be inhuman. I did whatever was necessary to ensure her cremation in the quickest possible time,” he said. When TOI contacted DC ESD Debasmita Das, she did not answer the call. Beniapukur cops did not respond to calls either.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cremation-delayed-by-18-hours-as-locals-stop-kin-from-moving-body/articleshow/77271202.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 31, 2020||Kolkata||New policy is ambiguous, say educationists||Kolkata: The overhaul of higher education system proposed in the National Education Policy 2020 released on Wednesday is a blatant replication of the US-styled higher education system and inconsistent with the existing policies, said eminent educationists, vice-chancellors and other stakeholders. While the attempt to enrol a large section of students within the ambit of higher education has been appreciated by a wide section of faculty members, it does not take into account the achievements in higher education over the past 34 years, it was pointed out. “The NEP 2020 has set a target of achieving 50% enrolment rate in the higher education by 2035, which is commendable and optimistic. But there is no clarity on the means and funding,” said Partha Pratim Biswas, teacher of Construction Engineering at Jadavpur University. He added that there is ambiguity on whether private or public funding will be allowed. The preamble of policy statement does not mention what has been learnt or successfully implemented in the past years, said the VC of a state varsity. While the new policy mentions following the semester-based system from class IX to class XII, it says nothing on how to blend it with higher education system, said Biswas. Some educationists feared it could curb importance of HS examinations. “If the importance of HS is reduced, then the sole focus of a student will be to get into a reputable college or university. This will replace knowledge-driven education that’s the main aim of higher education system,” he said. The NEP 2020 also seeks to remove statutory bodies like the University Grants Commission and All India Council for Technical Education. “They will be replaced with a central regulatory body. But to excel in higher education, decentralization is necessary. The proposed Rashtriya Shiksha Aayog will be headed by PM and there is provision of six members to be nominated from Union ministers. But where are the educationists?” asked Biswas. A faculty member at Ballygunge Science College said it aims to destroy the constitutional ideals of ‘secular, scientific and democratic’ education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-policy-is-ambiguous-say-educationists/articleshow/77271224.cms||Somdatta Basu
July 31, 2020||Chennai||Find a way to give uncooked eggs to schoolkids: Madras high court||CHENNAI: Asserting that distribution of eggs to children enrolled under mid-day meal scheme is important considering the present Covid-19 situation, the Madras high court has directed the state to come up with a way for it. “Uncooked eggs can be distributed to the children. Teachers who are free due to lockdown can be utilised for the purpose,” a division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha said on Thursday. The bench also directed the state to ascertain ways to make menstrual napkin vending machines that were provided in government schools accessible to children during lockdown. The court issued the interim directions on a public interest writ petition filed by advocate and Tamil Nadu Mahila Congress president R Sudha, who wanted it to ensure that children enrolled under mid-day meal scheme are provided nutritious food during lockdown. When the plea came up for hearing, special government pleader G K Muthukumar informed the court that the state has taken steps to distribute dry ration to such children instead of cooked food, but eggs could not be provided as it is perishable and due to practical problems in distribution. Refusing to accept the same, the bench said, “When eggs are provided through the mid-day meal scheme, it must be ensured that the children get them during lockdown too. They cannot afford to buy them from shops. If boiled eggs are perishable, uncooked eggs can be distributed once in a week.” The government must also consider providing vitamin tablets to such children to boost their immunity, the court added. To this, Muthukumar submitted that vitamin tablets are not provided since such tablets cannot be given to all children. As to the prayer to include eggs in the menu of Amma canteens across the state, the court said it would leave the matter for the government to decide. According to Sudha, the 407 Amma canteens across the state are being accessed by several lakh people. Adding egg to the menu will provide each of them a balanced healthy diet, Sudha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/find-a-way-to-give-uncooked-eggs-to-schoolkids-court/articleshow/77271239.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Bareilly||Left bleeding on highway for over half an hour, biker, 19, dies as people click pictures, make videos||BAREILLY: A 19-year-old biker died on the Delhi-Lucknow national highway in a dire need of medical assistance after an accident while passers-by kept him surrounded, waiting for police to arrive at the scene instead of shifting him to a hospital. A few of them were even busy making videos of the youth who was helplessly lying in the middle of the road and bleeding profusely in the Roza area of Shahjahanpur district on Thursday afternoon. Videos of the incident, which went viral, show people looking at the youth writhing in pain in the middle of the highway, but nobody came forward to help him, even as the nearest hospital was just 2 km from the spot. The youth died shortly after police admitted him to a hospital due to “excessive bleeding”. Doctors, however, said the victim could have been saved, had someone shifted him to a hospital in time. A Class XII pass out, Divyanshu Dikshit, a resident of Rausar village on the outskirts of Shahjahanpur city, was on his way to Roza to buy some article when his bike was hit by an unidentified vehicle near Reliance petrol pump and he fell on the road, said police. “Since the youth was riding without a helmet, he sustained serious injuries on his head and blood started oozing out of his skull,” Roza police station SHO Ashok Pal told TOI. Divyanshu lay on the road for over half an hour until police reached the spot and admitted him to a hospital. “When police reached the spot, the victim was not responding, but his pulse could be felt. We rushed him to the hospital in our vehicle, but he died soon. We informed the victim’s family about the accident. An FIR will be registered against the unidentified accused under relevant sections,” said the SHO. “Police always encourage people to help accident victims, but no one turned up to help the youth. The person who informed us could have also shifted him to a hospital with the help of others,” added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/left-bleeding-on-highway-for-over-half-an-hourbiker-19-dies-as-people-click-pictures-make-videos/articleshow/77267272.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 31, 2020||Bengaluru||2 uploaded photos of students, teachers on porn sites||Bengaluru: Cracking a ‘blackmail racket’ targeting girl students and professors of a group of educational institutions, Bengaluru police have arrested a 37-year-old techie and a final year law student. They allegedly morphed pictures taken from social media accounts and uploaded them on porn websites. Last week, complaints were filed by five girl students, the mother of another student and a male lecturer in different police stations in this regard. “The two suspects are said to have been blackmailing the women. They have been smart enough to avoid online financial transactions with the women. They knew it would leave behind a trail. Instead, they received cash from them. For how long were they doing it and how they managed to get the women fall in line and heed to their extortion demands will come out during investigation,” an officer said. Over 40 pictures of current and former female students and professors had been uploaded. Sandeep Patil, joint commissioner of police (crime), identified the accused as Ajay Tanikachalam, 37, of CV Raman Nagar and from Andhra Pradesh and Vishwak Sen Raghottam, 27, of Rajajinagar II Stage. Ajay is a software engineer and works for an MNC at Manyata Tech Park, while Vishwak is a final year law student. Initially, Ajay claimed that he put the photos to avenge his former girlfriend, her friends and their professors. “Ajay claimed that his former girlfriend’s friends and professors were behind their breakup. But we feel that Ajay is trying to mislead us. There is something else serious in the case,” an officer said. Police are questioning the accused separately. “Vishwak had deleted his profile on Facebook a few hours before the arrest. However, we will get them back. The profile will have many clues, URL links and other cyber evidence to indicate what was happening,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/2-uploaded-photos-of-students-teachers-on-porn-sites/articleshow/77270565.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Vadodara||Bikers burning rubber on Akota bridge face music from police||VADODARA: It has been one of the ‘fanciest’ drives undertaken by the traffic police in the city. Over the last two weeks, the cops have intercepted and fined owners of some of the costliest bikes on Akota-Dandia Bazaar Road. The bikers were penalized for over-speeding on this six lane road that connects eastern part of the city to the western part. The police said that some of the offenders were riding very expensive bikes. “The drive was initiated to prevent rash driving on this stretch. There were complaints of bikers using the Akota-Dandia Bazaar Road as a racing track. So a team of policemen was deployed on both ends of this road to penalize rash drivers,” said a traffic police official. The team used to intercept any biker driving at breakneck speed and penalize Rs 1,500 for over-speeding. Between July 18 and July 28, at least 27 vehicles including cars were penalized for over-speeding. A couple of sports bikes were seized as the owner couldn’t produce vehicle registration papers as well as driving license. “Price of the bikes that we intercepted ranged from Rs four lakh to Rs 16 lakh and we saw some of these motorbikes for the first time. If not driven safely, such high speed machines can cause accidents,” the police official added. Armed with speed guns, the cops had launched a drive to penalize over-speeding vehicles on July 18. The police said that after lockdown ended, many bikers ventured out daily in evenings and burnt rubber on the two-kilometre stretch between Dandia Bazaar and Akota. A team cops also moves around in civil clothes on this road to not just penalize rash drivers but also prevent anti-social elements from hanging out there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bikers-burning-rubber-on-akota-bridge-face-music-from-police/articleshow/77268094.cms||Tushar Tere
July 31, 2020||Hubballi||Underworld don Yusuf Suleman Khadri gets two-year jail term||DHARWAD: The second additional district judge court here has sentenced underworld criminal Pachakhan alias Baccha Khan alias Yusuf Suleman Khadri to two years’ imprisonment. Khan, a native of Mumbai, is accused of assaulting police personnel on May 23, 2010, when their team raided the Dharwad Central Jail following reports that the inmates possessed contraband articles and weapons in jail barracks. Khan was serving a sentence after being convicted in other cases. Dharwad suburban police had filed a case, the hearing of which ended last week. Second additional district judge Panchakshari M pronounced the verdict on Thursday. Along with Khan, three other co-accused were also convicted and sentenced. While Khan was slapped with two year-jail term and fine Rs 1,000, Shankaragouda alias Bettanakeri Shankra was sentenced to one-year imprisonment and fined Rs 1,000. Muniraju and Shameed Ali Dhalayat were convicted with imprisonment for six months and fined Rs 1,000 each. The then inspector of the suburban police station, Murugesh Channanavar, and sub-inspector Vishwanath Hiregoudar had filed the chargesheet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/underworld-don-gets-two-year-jail-term/articleshow/77269523.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Kolkata||Order proved that Sumantika wasn’t a drug addict: Parents||Jalpaiguri: Parents of Sumantika Banerjee, a first-year Master’s student at Presidency University, who had died of a gas leak in central Kolkata more than five years ago, were devastated after the tragedy. But another thing was haunting the couple, Debasis and Shipra, like nothing other. Their 21-year-old daughter, a meritorious student, had been labelled as a drug addict after her mysterious death on January 4, 2015 in Kolkata. “For us, those were the days when people would avoid us because they presumed that Sumantika had been a drug addict and died of drug overdose. The post-mortem report had nothing and when the viscera samples showed that she died of asphyxiation brought on by inhaling carbon monoxide, we desperately tried to reach out to people, trying to tell them that our daughter was not addicted to drugs. But no one would believe,” said Debasis. “It was then we decided to move National Green Tribunal (NGT) against Greater Calcutta Gas Supply Corporation Ltd (GCGSCL). More than being compensated for my loss, I needed to prove that my daughter was innocent. We could never accept people calling us the parents of a drug addict, which we knew she wasn’t,” he added. Now, the family is happy that none will be able to call her daughter a drug addict. “Our prime target has been achieved. We had made the compensation claim to file the case. What will we do with the money? Will that bring my daughter back? This verdict is for those here and in Kolkata, who had labelled my daughter a drug addict,” said Shipra. Sumantika’s younger brother Debkankan is studying at a private engineering college in the city. Her roommate at that time could not be contacted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/order-proved-that-sumantika-wasnt-a-drug-addict-parents/articleshow/77271243.cms||Pinak Priya Bhattacharya
July 31, 2020||Mysuru||Trafficked infant rescued, 4 held||Shivamogga: A group of people who were allegedly involved in trafficking a 14-day-old baby were traced and arrested by the Tunga Nagar police in Shivamogga. Police raided a beauty parlour at Tippu Nagar in Shivamogga on Thursday and arrested four accused. Shila, Suma, Tulasi and Shanmukha are the arrested accused. A 14-day-old baby was rescued in the operation. The mother of the baby suffers from mental illness and is poor. The prime accused, beauty parlour owner Shila, convinced the mother and her family to give the baby up for adoption for the best price. Shanmukha and Suma took the baby and kept it in their house. Suma’s mother then informed the police of the same. An investigation is on and the accused have been interrogated, said Tunga Nagar police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/trafficked-infant-rescued-4-held/articleshow/77269720.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Kolkata||E-W tunnelling resumes after workers recover||Kolkata: East-West Metro tunnelling resumed on Thursday after most workers, who had contracted the novel coronavirus, recovered. Tunnelling between Bowbazar and Sealdah stations was stopped on July 10 as nearly 60 labourers and engineers from the team tested positive for Covid. Now that 41 of them have reported back to work, TBM Urvi, burrowing the east-bound tunnel, started rolling once again. The giant borer is around 550m from its destination—Sealdah station. For almost three weeks, the borer had been the lying below Bowbazar Girls’ School, a few yards from Bank of India crossing.This is the last leg of tunnelling (2.5km) for the 16km Metro corridor that will join Howrah Maidan with Sector V. Implementing agency Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation recently had to shut its Hastings office, too, after seven engineers from General Consultants, the consortium of international agencies engaged as consultants for the Metro project, also tested positive. While most engineers were in home quarantine, the labourers from ITD ITD-Cementation, were isolated at a camp inside the company’s New Town casting yard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/e-w-tunnelling-resumes-after-workers-recover/articleshow/77271222.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
July 31, 2020||Hubballi||Six students with Covid-19 appear for CET in Ballari||BALLARI: Six students who tested positive for Covid-19 appeared for the Common Entrance Test in Ballari on Thursday. Separate seating arrangements were made for these students at the Covid Care Centre set up at Government Dental College, Ballari, and the use of PPE kits, masks and sanitisers were made mandatory. Dr Prashanth R, nodal officer, Covid Care Centre, Government Dental College, Ballari told TOI that all six students’ results turned positive just a few days before the CET. They all had lost hopes that they would write their CET, but we made arrangements to write the exam in the Covid Care Centre. The students hailing from Ballari, Huvinhadagali and Shiraguppa, were brought to the CCC three hours prior to the exam by taluk health officers in ambulances. They were subjected to a health screening when they arrived at CCC. The students, who have been asymptomatic, were in home quarantine for the past 3-4 days. They will stay at CCC till Friday and will be ferried back to their homes after their CET, he added. Expressing gratitude for giving them the opportunity, the students said they had lost almost all hopes of appearing for CET this year after they tested positive for Covid-19. “We thank the district administration for going the extra mile to ensure we appear for the exam without any worries,” they added. Deputy commissioner S S Nakul said, “We have made all arrangements as per the protocol to ensure these students write their exam confidently without any worries.” In Dharwad, of the five students who tested positive for Covid-19, four appeared for CET.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/six-students-with-covid-19-appear-for-cet-in-ballari/articleshow/77268973.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
July 31, 2020||Vadodara||‘Clear Nyay Mandir of all personal belongings by February’||VADODARA: After more than two years it was vacated, the district court has asked the Baroda Bar Association (BBA) and its advocates to clear Nyay Mandir building of their personal belongings. In his letter, the principal district judge has asked the president of BBA to inform all advocates to take away furniture or any other belonging that may still be lying inside the heritage building before February or else these will be disposed off as per government rules. “We have asked lawyers to to take away certain things lying in the building as monsoon has started. Last year too, during monsoon, a tree uprooted inside the campus. With furniture lying inside, it is difficult to maintain cleanliness,” an administration official told TOI. “The furniture may be damaged, but we have to follow procedure of asking them to take it away so that no one raises any objection in the future,” the official said adding that the court is now being regularly cleaned. Built in 1896, the heritage building was vacated in March 2018 as the courts shifted to the new building in Diwalipura. Since then the building has remained in Gujarat high court’s possession. In the past TOI had reported about how the temple of justice for 120 years was in state of disrepair as garbage and old furniture was scattered everywhere.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/clear-nyay-mandir-of-all-personal-belongings-by-feb/articleshow/77268018.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Agra||14 tear out window grill, break out of juvenile home in UP's Mathura||AGRA: For the second time this year, inmates at the government-run juvenile observation home for boys in Mathura broke out of detention. Two hours past midnight on Thursday, 14 inmates tore out the rusted iron grills of a window and made a break for it. While police managed to trace nine of them, five are still on the run. The 14 minors — charged with murder, sexual assault and gang rape — were from Mathura, Aligarh and Hathras. “With spoons and rudimentary tools, they had loosened the bolts that fastened the window in place over some time. After they removed the grill, they got out and seem to have gone out the front gate,” Mathura SP Gaurav Grover said. “The wall is not too high either. In either scenario, the home guards should have seen them. That is being investigated,” he added. Six people — three staff members at the observation home and three home guards — were booked under sections 222 (intentional omission to apprehend on the part of public servant bound to apprehend person under sentence or lawfully committed) and 223 (escape from confinement or custody negligently suffered by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code on the basis of a complaint filed by district probation officer. “A team has been formed to track down the five others,” Grover said. In March this year, five juveniles had escaped after a scuffle with the guard. They were apprehended and brought back later. Police said a few days ago, inmates at the home had staged a protest against the decision to move out two boys — who had turned 18 — to the district jail. "Prima facie, it seems they may have hatched the escape plan," a police officer said. The number of inmates at the observation home, 106, is more than thrice its capacity of 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/14-tear-out-window-grill-break-out-of-juvenile-home-in-mathura/articleshow/77269721.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
July 31, 2020||Salem||Covid-19: Tamil Nadu sees a dip in fresh cases, but fatalities at new high of 97||CHENNAI: After reporting nearly 7,000 cases a day for the past one week, Tamil Nadu on Thursday recorded a dip in new Covid cases at 5,864 even as the toll reached a new high with 97 deaths. This took the state’s cumulative tally to 2,39,978 and toll to 3,838. There were 57,962 people still under treatment after 5,295 people were discharged, taking the total recoveries to 1,78,178. The last time TN saw cases below 6,000 was on July 22 when it recorded 5,849. Chennai continues to be the hotspot with 1,175 cases compared to 1,117 on Wednesday. Its three neighbours recorded a dip in cases with 854 compared to 1,305 on Wednesday. Chengalpet had 354, Kancheepuram 175 and Tiruvallur 325. With a total of 31,879 people under treatment including 2,876 fresh cases, the 11 northern districts including Chennai account for 55% of the state’s active cases. The northern region also reported 40 deaths, including 18 in Chennai. With that, the region has 2,808 deaths, 2,092 of them in Chennai. With six out of 10 districts in the southern region recording more than 200 cases each, the region accounts for 25% of the state’s total active cases at 14,616. Tirunelveli had 277 cases followed by 261 in Theni, 248 in Kanyakumari, 244 in Virudhunagar, and 220 each in Tuticorin and Madurai. The region reported 34 deaths with the highest of eight in Tirunelveli, taking the total toll to 650 including 233 in Madurai. The western region recorded 540 new cases including 303 in Coimbatore. This took the total to 12,797, including 4,529 active cases in the region. Nine deaths took the toll to 123 with 50 in Coimbatore and 30 in Salem. Coimbatore saw its corporation deputy commissioner, Maduranthaki, testing positive and getting hospitalised. Salem at 70 new cases recorded its lowest count in a week. Every day from July 24, it has been seeing more than 100 new cases a day. With 460 new cases, the central region had a total of 12,871 cases including 4,934 people under treatment. Pudukottai recorded the highest with 128 cases. The region has so far reported 146 deaths, including 14 on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/state-sees-a-dip-in-fresh-cases-but-fatalities-at-new-high-of-97/articleshow/77279829.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid-19: Tamil Nadu sees a dip in fresh cases, but fatalities at new high of 97||CHENNAI: After reporting nearly 7,000 cases a day for the past one week, Tamil Nadu on Thursday recorded a dip in new Covid cases at 5,864 even as the toll reached a new high with 97 deaths. This took the state’s cumulative tally to 2,39,978 and toll to 3,838. There were 57,962 people still under treatment after 5,295 people were discharged, taking the total recoveries to 1,78,178. The last time TN saw cases below 6,000 was on July 22 when it recorded 5,849. Chennai continues to be the hotspot with 1,175 cases compared to 1,117 on Wednesday. Its three neighbours recorded a dip in cases with 854 compared to 1,305 on Wednesday. Chengalpet had 354, Kancheepuram 175 and Tiruvallur 325. With a total of 31,879 people under treatment including 2,876 fresh cases, the 11 northern districts including Chennai account for 55% of the state’s active cases. The northern region also reported 40 deaths, including 18 in Chennai. With that, the region has 2,808 deaths, 2,092 of them in Chennai. With six out of 10 districts in the southern region recording more than 200 cases each, the region accounts for 25% of the state’s total active cases at 14,616. Tirunelveli had 277 cases followed by 261 in Theni, 248 in Kanyakumari, 244 in Virudhunagar, and 220 each in Tuticorin and Madurai. The region reported 34 deaths with the highest of eight in Tirunelveli, taking the total toll to 650 including 233 in Madurai. The western region recorded 540 new cases including 303 in Coimbatore. This took the total to 12,797, including 4,529 active cases in the region. Nine deaths took the toll to 123 with 50 in Coimbatore and 30 in Salem. Coimbatore saw its corporation deputy commissioner, Maduranthaki, testing positive and getting hospitalised. Salem at 70 new cases recorded its lowest count in a week. Every day from July 24, it has been seeing more than 100 new cases a day. With 460 new cases, the central region had a total of 12,871 cases including 4,934 people under treatment. Pudukottai recorded the highest with 128 cases. The region has so far reported 146 deaths, including 14 on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/state-sees-a-dip-in-fresh-cases-but-fatalities-at-new-high-of-97/articleshow/77279826.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Kolkata||NGT not happy over Mollar Bheri work pace||Kolkata: National Green Tribunal (NGT), which had imposed a fine of Rs 10 lakh as environment compensation on Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation for failing to comply with the tribunal’s earlier order in September last year, again expressed dissatisfaction over the progress of civic body’s biomining work at Mollar Bheri dump site. The NGT has threatened civil imprisonment, withholding of salary, environment compensation from the personnel responsible for the job. Environment crusader Subhas Datta, who had filed the case against the extraordinary pollution of the East Kolkata Wetlands, furnished before the court how irreversible damage is being done to the wetland by dumping untreated wastes. Earlier, Justice S P Wangdi (judicial member) and Dr Nagin Nanda (expert member) have noted that the action taken by the civic body at Bidhannagar was set out in the supplementary affidavit. However, they do not find the action to be adequate in terms of its speed and no tangible result was found. On the serious question of bio-mining it is stated that the work would be completed by June 2020. Going by what has been stated by the civic body at Bidhannagar in the action taken report, the entire work should have been completed by now. A centralized waste processing and treatment facility of 560 tpd (tonne per day) was slated to be completed by December 31, 2019. But the work has not been completed till now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ngt-not-happy-over-mollar-bheri-work-pace/articleshow/77271259.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
July 31, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘No clarity on immersion ponds’||Ahmedabad: The AMC’s standing committee chairman, Amul Bhatt, has made it clear that there was yet no certainty about the civic body creating a set-up for Ganesh idol immersion. Bhatt said tenders for building artificial ponds at the Sabarmati riverfront have been issued after the standing committee meeting, given that Ganesh Chaturthi falls on August 22. However, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) is waiting for guidelines from the state government before finalizing arrangements. Bhatt made an appeal to citizens to install small Ganesh idols so that most can conduct idol immersion at their homes. Bhatt said the decision to set up artificial ponds will be taken in consultation with the state government, and currently there was no clarity on the issue. Last year, the AMC had built 61 artificial ponds on the riverfront to curb river pollution. An AMC official said that the corporation will hold a meeting with police and there is a strong possibility that public pandals may not be permitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-clarity-on-immersion-ponds/articleshow/77271268.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Hard disks, documents seized in child trafficking case||VISAKHAPATNAM: Vizag city police, with a medical team from King George Hospital (KGH), carried out searches at Universal Srushti Fertility and Research Centre after a case of child trafficking was uncovered at the hospital on July 26. Police seized hard disks and documents for investigation. It may be recalled that MR Peta police arrested six persons, including two doctors P Namrata and Tirumala, for selling a baby to a couple in Kolkata. Police have evidence that the six may have been involved in five other cases of child trafficking as well. Speaking to TOI, DCP Aishwarya Rastogi said they will examine the seized documents and hard disks with the help of medical experts. “Our investigation has revealed that Hyderabad police registered a case against Dr P Namrata and her clinic for allegedly cheating a couple in surrogacy fraud. We have observed that Universal Srushti Hospital has ignored ICMR guidelines and been involved in in-vitro fertilisation (IVF) violations. Based on the medical experts’ suggestions, we will take action,” the DCP added. Police said Dr Namrata earlier ran a Srushti Hospital that was renamed Universal Srusthi Fertility and Research Centre after Kothapeta police in Guntur registered two cases against it on trafficking charges in 2018. In Vizag city, the centre has performed 56 deliveries till date. Inspector of MR Peta Police Station, G Soma Sekhar said it will take more time to complete the investigation and establish that newborns were trafficked. The arrested have been remanded in custody, police said. Speaking on the modus operandi, police said Dr Namrata had opened branches in Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Bhubaneswar and Kolkata and would hold free medical camps with her team in Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts and in Odisha, through which poor and destitute pregnant women or women with unwanted pregnancies would be identified. A network of agents was in place to buy the babies from these women. The women would be promised money and free delivery at the hospital in return for the baby. Police suspect that child trafficking may have also been carried out at the other branches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/hard-disks-docus-seized-in-child-trafficking-case/articleshow/77269731.cms||Nalla.Babu
July 31, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: Tamil Nadu sees a dip in fresh cases, but fatalities at new high of 97||CHENNAI: After reporting nearly 7,000 cases a day for the past one week, Tamil Nadu on Thursday recorded a dip in new Covid cases at 5,864 even as the toll reached a new high with 97 deaths. This took the state’s cumulative tally to 2,39,978 and toll to 3,838. There were 57,962 people still under treatment after 5,295 people were discharged, taking the total recoveries to 1,78,178. The last time TN saw cases below 6,000 was on July 22 when it recorded 5,849. Chennai continues to be the hotspot with 1,175 cases compared to 1,117 on Wednesday. Its three neighbours recorded a dip in cases with 854 compared to 1,305 on Wednesday. Chengalpet had 354, Kancheepuram 175 and Tiruvallur 325. With a total of 31,879 people under treatment including 2,876 fresh cases, the 11 northern districts including Chennai account for 55% of the state’s active cases. The northern region also reported 40 deaths, including 18 in Chennai. With that, the region has 2,808 deaths, 2,092 of them in Chennai. With six out of 10 districts in the southern region recording more than 200 cases each, the region accounts for 25% of the state’s total active cases at 14,616. Tirunelveli had 277 cases followed by 261 in Theni, 248 in Kanyakumari, 244 in Virudhunagar, and 220 each in Tuticorin and Madurai. The region reported 34 deaths with the highest of eight in Tirunelveli, taking the total toll to 650 including 233 in Madurai. The western region recorded 540 new cases including 303 in Coimbatore. This took the total to 12,797, including 4,529 active cases in the region. Nine deaths took the toll to 123 with 50 in Coimbatore and 30 in Salem. Coimbatore saw its corporation deputy commissioner, Maduranthaki, testing positive and getting hospitalised. Salem at 70 new cases recorded its lowest count in a week. Every day from July 24, it has been seeing more than 100 new cases a day. With 460 new cases, the central region had a total of 12,871 cases including 4,934 people under treatment. Pudukottai recorded the highest with 128 cases. The region has so far reported 146 deaths, including 14 on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/state-sees-a-dip-in-fresh-cases-but-fatalities-at-new-high-of-97/articleshow/77271256.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Agra||Agra’s SNMC, first in UP, to start human trials of Covaxin||Agra: The ethics committee of the Sarojini Naidu Medical College (SNMC) on Thursday gave its approval for conducting clinical human trials of the indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin. The hospital is likely to start screening individuals from next week. According to the hospital doctors, around 400 “healthy people” would be enrolled in the trial. The SNMC is the only hospital in Uttar Pradesh to conduct clinical trials. It is also among the 12 chosen hospitals across the country where trials would take place. The vaccine trial has already begun in Hyderabad, Rohtak, Patna, Kancheepuram, Delhi, Goa, Bhubaneswar and Karnataka. According to SNMC doctors, healthy volunteers, aged between 18 and 55 years, having no comorbid conditions and without a history of Covid-19 would be eligible to participate in the ‘randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial’. “Covaxin is an inactivated vaccine which uses the dead SARS-CoV-2 (Covid-19) particles to trigger the body to develop immunity against the virus by creating protective antibodies. We are working on a plan to start the human trail of the vaccine from next week. Required infrastructure, including a dedicated laboratory, is being set up. The exact number of people for the human trial is yet to be finalized. We are planning to include 400 healthy people,” SNMC principal Dr Sanjay Kala told TOI. Giving details of the trial, Kala said, “The participants for the human trail, including the doctors of SNMC, will be under observation for two to three hours after being administered the first dose. They will be given three doses of the vaccine to the candidates to complete the trial. To ensure the safety and efficacy of the vaccine, all the volunteers will remain under observation for two to three hours after each dosage.” Covaxin has been developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the National Institute of Virology (NIV).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agras-snmc-first-in-up-to-start-human-trials-of-covaxin/articleshow/77269736.cms||Deepak Lavania
July 31, 2020||Madurai||Covid-19: Tamil Nadu sees a dip in fresh cases, but fatalities at new high of 97||CHENNAI: After reporting nearly 7,000 cases a day for the past one week, Tamil Nadu on Thursday recorded a dip in new Covid cases at 5,864 even as the toll reached a new high with 97 deaths. This took the state’s cumulative tally to 2,39,978 and toll to 3,838. There were 57,962 people still under treatment after 5,295 people were discharged, taking the total recoveries to 1,78,178. The last time TN saw cases below 6,000 was on July 22 when it recorded 5,849. Chennai continues to be the hotspot with 1,175 cases compared to 1,117 on Wednesday. Its three neighbours recorded a dip in cases with 854 compared to 1,305 on Wednesday. Chengalpet had 354, Kancheepuram 175 and Tiruvallur 325. With a total of 31,879 people under treatment including 2,876 fresh cases, the 11 northern districts including Chennai account for 55% of the state’s active cases. The northern region also reported 40 deaths, including 18 in Chennai. With that, the region has 2,808 deaths, 2,092 of them in Chennai. With six out of 10 districts in the southern region recording more than 200 cases each, the region accounts for 25% of the state’s total active cases at 14,616. Tirunelveli had 277 cases followed by 261 in Theni, 248 in Kanyakumari, 244 in Virudhunagar, and 220 each in Tuticorin and Madurai. The region reported 34 deaths with the highest of eight in Tirunelveli, taking the total toll to 650 including 233 in Madurai. The western region recorded 540 new cases including 303 in Coimbatore. This took the total to 12,797, including 4,529 active cases in the region. Nine deaths took the toll to 123 with 50 in Coimbatore and 30 in Salem. Coimbatore saw its corporation deputy commissioner, Maduranthaki, testing positive and getting hospitalised. Salem at 70 new cases recorded its lowest count in a week. Every day from July 24, it has been seeing more than 100 new cases a day. With 460 new cases, the central region had a total of 12,871 cases including 4,934 people under treatment. Pudukottai recorded the highest with 128 cases. The region has so far reported 146 deaths, including 14 on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/state-sees-a-dip-in-fresh-cases-but-fatalities-at-new-high-of-97/articleshow/77279828.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Mysuru||31% tested under RAT infected in NR segment||Mysuru: Rapid antigen tests (RAT) helped district authorities to identify more Covid cases in north-east Mysuru in the last two weeks. Mysuru on Thursday recorded the highest ever cases of 430 with 9 fatalities taking the total death count to 137. Of the nine who died, three were women. One was brought dead while four died within a day of being admitted to hospital. There were a total 4,013 positive cases in Mysuru district, of which 2,661 are active cases. Deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said the rapid antigen test (RAT) drive was carried out twice in Narasimharaja constituency from July 18-23 and from Monday to Thursday, and it helped in detecting 470 cases. About 1,557 people were tested in various localities in this part of Mysuru. In Kailasapura in the Chamaraja assembly segment, three days of RAT helped in detecting 87 positive cases. About 269 were subjected to tests. Aday’s exclusive drive in both these localities apart from regular check-ups, helped detect an additional 96 cases out of 240 patients tested. In all, 2,066 people were tested from July 18-30 of whom 653 people were found to be infected. RAT results will be out within 30 minutes unlike RT-PCR, which takes a minimum of six hours of testing, and a day to declare results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/31-tested-under-rat-infected-in-nr-segment/articleshow/77269765.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Bareilly||Tigress rescue operation at Bareilly rubber factory suspended due to rains||Bareilly: The forest department has suspended the rescue operation of a tigress living in a defunct rubber factory, 18 km from here, till the monsoon is over. Officials said they will resume operations after a month.The big cat has strayed from Dudhwa's Kishanpur Wildlife Sanctuary and made the forest-like defunct factory complex, spanning over 1,200 acres, home for over four months now. So far, efforts to trap it have failed. Chief conservator of forests, Rohilkhand zone, Lalit Verma, said, “The incessant rains have led to waterlogging in the factory premises. It has affected the tigress' movement. We will resume operations when the weather clears.”According to forest officials, the picture of the tigress was captured by a camera trap after a gap of many days on Tuesday but it has not been sighted since then. “There are days when no picture of tigress or its pugmarks are spotted and we have no idea where it is hiding," said a forest official.Content state:WritingIn use by:Reporter(s):Rakesh Chandra1Last modified:30-07 21:18 - Rakesh Chandra1Requested size: Actual size: 37 lin - 334.25pCategory:Contextual use: NormalDescription:Correction:All usages://||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/tigress-rescue-operation-at-bareilly-rubber-factory-suspended-due-to-rains/articleshow/77267294.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
July 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Three cops at Sec 26 centre test positive||Chandigarh: Three more constables, including two women, of the UT Police tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. So far, eight UT cops have contracted the virus. The samples of four other constables have been sent for testing and their reports are awaited. All the three cops were deployed at Recruit Training Centre (RTC) in Sector 26. They have been admitted to GMH-16 and their condition is stable. They were living in the same training centre and developed infection when one of them tested positive for corona. Police department has sanitised the training centre. Their four immediate contacts have also developed symptoms. Earlier, inspector Dilbag Singh, posted at police headquarters in Sector 9, had tested positive on July 16 and was admitted to GMH-16. Constable Pardeep Kumar was admitted to the same hospital on July 14. The constable was posted at the police post on the Panjab University (PU) campus. The first corona case in the police department was reported on May 12, when woman constable Suman tested positive. Now, she has joined duty after recovery. She got infected while on duty at the grain market in Sector 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/three-cops-at-sec-26-centre-test-positive/articleshow/77271287.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Mutts move sacred thread ritual for Avani Avittam online||CHENNAI: As events, classes and meetings move online, religious ceremonies aren’t left behind. The sacred thread ritual conducted on Avani Avittam day at small temples, mutts and marriage halls across the city will go virtual this year as priests get ready to conduct the ceremony for followers sitting in the comfort of their homes. Several marriage halls and mutts have asked people to register themselves for the virtual ceremony, following which a link will be sent to their mobile phones. Finally, on August 3 – the day of the ceremony – rituals will begin at an appointed time, allowing the participants to view and follow them in their own homes. “We have different batches between 7am and 12pm. We will be sending the link to all those who have registered, and based on their convenience, slot them a time to participate,” said Vedic Ravi of Sri Bhuvaneswari Vedic Centre at Rajakilpakkam. At Mandaveli, the Kalyan Nagar Association has asked patrons to register for the Avani Avittam event this year to regulate the crowd at their ceremony hall. “We want to wait and see how many people register to come to the hall for the ceremony. We will also send a Zoom link to those who don’t want to visit the venue,” said a member of the association. Priests too are preparing themselves, training to use the technology. Aadi is a sacred month in the Tamil calendar when big as well as smaller temples hold their annual festivals. This year, however, all shrines in Chennai and surrounding areas will remain shut complying with a government order. At a recent meeting with the chief minister, senior ministers and other officials discussed the reopening of temples in urban and semi-urban areas. “While the CM expressed an interest in reopening the Palani temple, it was decided that no temple would be reopened until August 17, when the Aadi month ends,” said a senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mutts-move-sacred-thread-ritual-for-avani-avittam-online/articleshow/77271291.cms||B Sivakumar
July 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali: Shops not following protocols will face music||MOHALI: Taking serious note of reports of violation of social distancing and other Covid protocols by some shopkeepers, Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan has announced a series of punishments. He said such shops would face forced closure for three days in case of first offence and up to a week for subsequent violations. He said action comes following directions of the Punjab chief minister to strictly enforce all safety protocols and norms as scientific data showed wearing of masks was as effective as lockdown and it not only prevented spread of infection but also lowered mortality. The DC said the administration would lift the night curfew in the district, but defer opening of gymnasiums and coaching centres. He said, “CM Amarinder Singh has sought the views of the DCs on opening of gyms and coaching centres and said he would take the final decision on this and other relaxations in Unlock 3.0 after receiving inputs.” He added there was a lot of demand from youngsters for opening of gyms and coaching centres, but they would have to view the situation from all angles before taking a decision by August 5, while the night curfew would be lifted from August 1. Mohali has been observing night curfew from 10pm to 5am and all shops are directed to close by 9pm. Shopkeepers have been directed to put social distancing markings and ensure that customers stand in marked places and wear masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/shops-not-following-protocols-will-face-music/articleshow/77271262.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
July 31, 2020||Agra||Rakhis to reach PM, but Vrindavan widows will miss him||Agra: In a departure from previous years, a delegation of widows living in various ashrams of Vrindavan will not be able to tie the rakhi on Prime Minister Narendra Modi's wrist on August 3, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. However, these elderly women have made 501 special rakhis with images of Modi along with a similar number of special Vrindavan-themed face masks for the PM. These will be sent to him, said officials here. The colourful rakhis and masks have been handmade by the inmates of 'Maa Sharda' and 'Meera Sagabhagini' ashrams. Disappointed that she would not be able to meet Modi, Chabi Dasi, 75, said, “I have personally designed special masks carrying messages like ‘Stay safe’ and ‘Atamnirbhar’ and rakhis with Modi ji’s pictures. But unfortunately, I cannot give them to him personally,” she said, adding that she had virtually been confined inside her ashram for the last five months due to Covid-19 lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/rakhis-to-reach-pm-but-vrindavan-widows-will-miss-him/articleshow/77269767.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Ludhiana||Man commits suicide on rly track||Ludhiana: A 40-year-old unidentified man allegedly committed suicide by jumping in front of a superfast train near Pakhowal railway crossing in the early morning hours of Thursday here. Investigation officer Gurcharan Singh, ASI with Government Railway Police, Ludhiana, said that the deceased who was in his 40s, allegedly committed suicide by jumping in front of Ferozepur-bound Superfast train which passes through Baddowal railway station in the early morning hours.” He said the body was yet to be identified. “A lineman reported the case to the control room of GRP after which a police party visited the spot and took away the body,” he said. Meanwhile, the police got the Covid-19 test of the deceased conducted and the report was expected soon. The body was kept in the mortuary of the Ludhiana civil hospital. It has initiated the inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/man-commits-suicide-on-rly-track/articleshow/77269735.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Trichy||Abandoned baby awaits parents as Trichy admin releases picture||Trichy: The Trichy district administration on Thursday released the picture of a baby girl, which was found abandoned on June 28 at Military Colony in Melakalkandarkottai, to enable the parents to stake claim. A local resident, who rescued the baby near a flour mill, informed the coordinator of Sevai ChildLine, I Muralikumar, on June 29. Doctors at the primary health centre (PHC) checked the health condition of the baby and assumed that it was 10 days old. The baby was named Iniya and her date of birth was recorded as June 19, 2020. Since the baby became normal, the child welfare committee (CWC) issued temporary custody order to SOCSEAD- Martin Children home. The baby will be in the home until she is given a ‘free for adoption’ certificate for legal adoption to a childless couple. The district administration released the baby’s picture so that anyone who knows the details about the parents or relatives can inform CWC Trichy at 0431-2413819, 9629929412 or district child protection unit (DCPU), Trichy at 0431-2413055, 9047283819 within 21 days. DCPU can be communicated through email: dcpstrichy1@gmail.com or at DCPU, Kalaiarangam upstairs, Cantonment, Trichy. In case of no claim from anyone, the legally free for adoption certificate will be given for the baby, said collector S Sivarasu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/abandoned-baby-awaits-parents-as-trichy-admin-releases-picture/articleshow/77272377.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Allahabad||Nine arrested after clash between two communities||Prayagraj: Pratapgarh police on Thursday arrested a total of nine accused who had allegedly attacked the members of a community on Mondasy near Maharajpur village under Baghrai police station. Baghrai police claimed that members of two communities—Ramphal Saroj (Baghrai resident) and Asif Ali (Maheshganj resident)—had an altercation over something while they were having a dangal (wrestling competition) in Maharajpur village on the morning of July 25. On Monday evening, one Ulfat Ali, along with other members of his community, allegedly attacked and injured Ramphal, Brijlal, Budhram and six others. Two members from the Ulfat’s camp were also injured in the clash. Following the incident, a case under Sections 147, 148, 149, 323, 504, 307, 188, 269, 270 of IPC and 7 CLA and relevant sections of SC/ST Act was registered at Baghrai police station. Six of the accused including Jafar Ali, Mohd Istihaq, Mohd Karam Sher, Asgar Ali and Asfar Ali, all residents of Ghosiyana were arrested on Monday. On Thursday, three more accused identified as Ulfat Ali, Bhoora alias Sher Mohammad and Kalam Seikh alias Samsher were arrested .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/nine-arrested-after-clash-between-two-communities/articleshow/77271293.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata scientist part of Nasa team on Mars mission||KOLKATA: Not too long ago this biotechnologist was trained and schooled here. Today he was part of the team of Perseverance, the rover that Nasa launched successfully on Thursday, to explore Mars to check out any sign of life on the Red Planet. The biotechnologist, Chiranjit Mukherjee, is part of the team that will analyse the information to be collected by Perseverance and its companion, the Ingenuity helicopter drone, from Mars, after they land there in February 2021. Chiranjit graduated with biotechnology from the Heritage Institute of Technology in 2010 and had completed his postgraduation and Phd from the Ohio State University. At Nasa he works as a bioinformatics data scientist. “I am handling a rather sensitive project and cannot reveal much, but briefly, the Mars 2020 Mission is looking for signs of habitable conditions on Mars in the ancient past and is also searching for signs of past microbial life itself. My project is about using computational methods to look at microbial genetic material,” said Chiranjit in an e-mail. The mission was successfully launched a little after 5pm IST and the world linked up online to watch the launch. The rover and the drone are expected to land on the Jezero crater in February 2021. The mission will investigate the ancient environment on Mars, the geological processes that its surface has gone through, assessment of past habitability if any and thereby, confirm the possibility of life. The rover will collect soil and rocks as samples to be brought back to earth for further testing. They will look for traces of water or existence of microbes as these will finally prove the possibility of life on the planet.  “From his BTech days, Chiranjit has been an extremely diligent student, ready to explore beyond the obvious. We are extremely proud of him. He has been in touch with us over the social media and kept us updated about his progress after going to the US and even after moving on to Nasa,” said Riddhi Goswami, who had taught Chiranjit during his four undergrad years at Heritage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kol-scientist-part-of-nasa-team-on-mars-mission/articleshow/77271323.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
July 31, 2020||Chandigarh||Rs 10L relief to city cop, suffered 45% disability in accident||Chandigarh: The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT), Chandigarh, has awarded a compensation of over Rs 10 lakh to a Chandigarh police staffer, who suffered 45% disability in a road accident in 2018.ASI Satyabir Singh, 54, a resident of Sector 26, Chandigarh, filed a case against two brothers named Naresh Kumar and Rajesh Kumar from Kaithal district, Haryana. Naresh was driving a Maruti Baleno car, which was owned by his brother.According to the petition, Satyabir claimed that on April 27, 2018, he was coming from Aleva village in Jind district to Chandigarh in a Maruti Alto car. After crossing Kauodak village, a speeding Baleno car coming from the opposite direction, collided with his car. He suffered serious injuries and was referred to PGI, Chandigarh. He remained hospitalised till July 17, 2018. Alleging that the accident took place because the car was being driven at a fast speed and restlessly, he sought a claim of Rs 75 lakh.Denying allegations, the brothers pleaded that no accident took place and false criminal case has been registered against them with the local police officials of Kaithal only to mint money in the name of compensation.The insurance company claimed that the driver of the vehicle did not have a valid licence at the time of accident and the vehicle was being driven in contravention of terms and conditions of the Motor Vehicle Act.The court observed that, “The functional disability of the right leg is hereby assessed as 45% and the loss of future earning capacity as 15%. However, the fact remains that he being in service of the police department, claimant would be getting full salary, as such, the compensation with respect to disability requires to be assessed as per multiplier method.”Stating that the accident is proved to have taken place, the court awarded a compensation of Rs 10.09 lakh to the ASI. It directed the insurance company to deposit the amount within 15 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rs-10l-relief-to-city-cop-suffered-45-disability-in-accident/articleshow/77271296.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Nagpur||With 93.2%, Kajal Warthi proves her Warthi-ness||NAGPUR: Living in a hostel away from the family from day one of the schooling, Kajal Warthi, a tribal girl from Kolitmara village in Parseoni tehsil, not just scored 93.2% marks in SSC but also set a perfect example for others on how balance sports as well as studies. A student of St Ursula Girls High School, Kajal has also excelled as a national-level football and hockey player. “I have been staying in a hostel since Std I. My teachers and hostel wardens never let me feel alone and kept uplifting my morale. Despite severe financial problems, I decided to never give up,” said Kajal, who continued to study regularly and with discipline. Kajal’s father is a farmer at Kolitmara and mother a housewife. Inputs by Anchal Bhatia||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-93-2-kajal-proves-her-warthi-ness/articleshow/77271283.cms||Anchal Bhatia
July 31, 2020||Hyderabad||NEP: Telangana schools flag concern on teaching in mother tongue||HYDERABAD: Several school managements in Telangana are concerned over the Centre promoting teaching in the mother tongue and introduction of a regional language as the third language up to class 5 under the national education policy (NEP-2020). In the policy released on Wednesday, the Union education ministry said that the medium of instruction till class 5 and preferably till class 8 will be in the local language. However, it is unclear if this will be imposed on private English-medium schools as well. Principals have raised concerns over the policy as they claim that it will severely impact parents who have transferable jobs. “Parents travelling to different states would mean children changing their medium of instruction. How can different mother tongues be taught in different states and cities? It would increase complexity in languages and will be a burden on the children,” said Anjali Razdan, chief education advisor, GD Goenka School, Hyderabad. Currently, students in Telangana study only two languages up to class 5 – English and regional language. Principals opine that introduction of another language will burden the teachers as well as parents. “Mother tongue as the medium of instruction till class 5 will have a serious impact on private schools in Telangana as many teachers working in primary schools are either from other states or they do not know Telugu. Quality of the content of textbooks in native language is quite poor and nowhere comparable to private publishers, which does not leave any choice to the parents,” said Narsimha Reddy, principal, Hyderabad Public School, Ramanthapur and chairman, Hyderabad Sahodaya Schools Complex. School managements have, however, welcomed the NEP’s emphasis on vocational education from class 6 and 5+3+3+4 schooling system. Introduction of National Tutors Programme wherein best performers of the school are allowed for peer tutoring for at least five hours in a week was also lauded by many.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nep-schools-flag-concern-on-teaching-in-mother-tongue/articleshow/77271318.cms||Preeti Biswas
July 31, 2020||Ludhiana||Police checkings near industrial areas leads to panic among industrialists||Ludhiana: A lot of panic was witnessed among industrialists on Thursday after messages of police checking the factories in Industrial Area-B went viral. According to the messages, the police was conducting checking inside the factories for ascertaining whether or not the workers and staffers of the factories were putting on masks or not and whether social distancing norms were also being taken care of while working inside the premises. Huge resentment was witnessed among industrialists after these messages and a large number of businessmen opined that the police should conduct checking only outside the factories and not inside. Meanwhile, some of the businessmen also contacted senior police officials who confirmed to them that the police teams were conducting such checkings on roads, outside factories and at various nakas and no such checking was conducted inside anyone’s factory. Businessmen, meanwhile, are claiming that they were fully supporting police in its crusade but police officials should also ensure that they were not harassed unnecessarily on the pretext of checking. Police has increased its checking against not wearing of masks and other violations on roads near industrial areas and commercial hubs like Gill Road and a lot of challans are being issued to offenders. Meanwhile, speaking on the issue, Inderjit Singh Navyug , former president of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association, said, “Earlier, there was confusion that police are checking the factories for unknown reasons but later it emerged that police teams were conducting checkings on roads in industrial areas against the offences like not wearing of masks, disobeying social distancing norms, etc. We got clarity on the matter from the senior police officials, who also informed us that they are conducting such checkings outside the factories while owners of factories must ensure full compliance of norms inside their factories for their and their workers’ safety.” Navyug also added, “We are fully supporting the police in their campaign against compliance of the rules and regulations and we will also ensure that all our workers and staff obeys these for sure. But senior police officials should also ensure that no industrialist is unnecessary harassed until it is certain that he has broken any rules or not ensuring compliance of these.” According to Narinder Bhamra, president of Fasteners Manufacturers Association of India, “Ludhiana police deserves huge appreciation for the selfless duty being done by the force during the harrowing times of coronavirus. As far as industry is concerned, we are fully supporting the police’s crusade against offenders who are not complying with the norms fixed by the state and Centre to combat Covid-19 and we are extending full cooperation to the police, but at the same time we expect that police personnel also show full courtesy and there is no way that any businessmen or our worker and staff are harassed during the checkings, either on road or near our factories.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/police-checkings-near-industrial-areas-leads-to-panic-among-industrialists/articleshow/77269764.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Trichy||Rockfort beautification is yet to take off, four months after tender||Trichy: The work on beautifying Rockfort hillock under the Smart Cities mission is yet to start even after Trichy corporation completed the tender process four months ago. Funds to the tune of 11.36 crore were sanctioned to illuminate the hillock, a protected monument of Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). As part of the heritage tourism development project proposed in 2018, corporation identified Rockfort hillock, Main Guard Gate façade and Teppakulam tank for beautification. The plan was to install LED focus lights to illuminate the 83m tall hillock for a picturesque night view. The corporation identified a company in March to execute the proposal under design, build, operate and transfer (DBOT) basis. The agency will take care of the maintenance for five years, after which the illumination and allied infrastructure will be handed over to the civic body. Though four months have passed, the work has not commenced yet. “Utilising the absence of public movement, the corporation should expedite the project. Already, smart city projects are getting delayed,” Subash Chandran, member, Trichy Intra-City Development Endeavours (TIDES), said. The proposal to beautify Teppakulam tank with laser lights and LED illumination was also delayed by the civic body.“The project will commence within weeks. Tender has been floated for Teppakulam beautification project, and an executing agency will be identified soon,” a senior||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rockfort-beautification-is-yet-to-take-off-four-months-after-tender/articleshow/77272383.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 31, 2020||Trichy||Trichy corpn asks Covid teams to launch dengue drive too||Trichy: Trichy Corporation has instructed 18 health teams overseeing the Covid-19 situation to simultaneously commence anti-dengue drive after four dengue fever cases were reported in the city in the last one month.Mosquito menace began after sporadic rainfall lashed the city in the past week. With several vacant plots exploited as dump yards by residents and commercial establishments due to the lockdown, they have become potential breeding grounds for dengue-causing aedes mosquitoes. “Mosquito menace has increased after the recent rain. Corporation should launch awareness measures and source reduction drive by employing domestic breeding checkers (DBC) at the earliest,” R Kathan, a retired health inspector said. Corporation officials said that ward-wise fogging drive has been planned. A fogging machine is allotted to each of the 65 wards to fumigate the abate chemical solution to eliminate mosquitoes. “Around 200 workers have been diverted to take up anti-dengue drive in the city. They will survey the houses and vacant plots to eliminate the dengue mosquito source objects,” S Sivasubramanian, commissioner and special officer, Trichy Corporation told TOI. Heavy penalties are to be levied on households having dengue sources.The 65 wards had reported 1,953 dengue cases in the past five years though no casualty was reported ever since. In 2012, five people had succumbed due to dengue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-asks-covid-teams-to-launch-dengue-drive-too/articleshow/77272387.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 31, 2020||Jaipur||90-day relaxation for claiming accident relief from CM fund in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: In view of the current Covid crisis, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday gave 90 days’ relaxation to kin of accident victims to apply for financial assistance from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund . Following this order, if the last date for submitting an application was any day from March 22 to May 31, the applicant can still apply for financial assistance till August 31. The exemption is only for the period of lockdown and in all other cases, applications will have to be made within six months from the date of accident as before, said a government release. This step taken has been taken to provide relief to the dependents of the deceased and injured in the accident during this period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/90-day-relaxation-for-claiming-accident-relief-from-cm-fund/articleshow/77271324.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Nagpur||‘I ran off to save my starving cattle’||Yavatmal: A farmer’s fleeing institutional quarantine to feed his cattle has raised questions about the authorities’ Covid preparedness. Village Dhamni of Wani tehsil was sealed after the emergence of a few Covid-19 cases, and those deemed to be in the high risk group were packed off to a Covid Care Centre (CCC). The farmer and his family of seven members was included in that group. He had a large cattle, but as the entire family was under institutional quarantine, the animals went without feed as administration allegedly made no arrangement for it. The farmer became restless and couldn't sleep as the condition of his mute animals distressed him. He ran off from the CCC on Tuesday night and stealthily reached the cattle shed in his farm. The news of his fleeing from quarantine was trumpeted, followed by a manhunt by the police and health care workers. The cattle — comprising oxen, cows and goats — was starving as there was no one to feed it. He gave it fodder and some water to drink. The man, bearing a quarantine stamp on his hand, remained there for over 24 hours. On Thursday, a youngster passing by the farm found him in the cattle shed and informed the police patil, who in turn informed the police. Police and the health care workers reached the spot in an ambulance and escorted the “absconding” farmer back to the CCC. After being re-admitted in the centre, the farmer told the police that he ran off to take care of his cattle as there was no one in the house to feed them. "True. I ran off. But I did it to save my starving cattle," he said. It remains to be seen whether the police will register an FIR against a farmer who broke rules to feed his starving mute animals. Nevertheless, the incident provides food for thought for the district authorities and renders their quarantining provisions moot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/i-ran-off-to-save-my-starving-cattle/articleshow/77271382.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Ludhiana||MC joint commissioner recovers from Covid, joins duty||Ludhiana: The joint commissioner of MC, Kulpreet Singh, who had tested positive for coronavirus has resumed his duty as zonal commissioner of zone D. Singh claimed there was no need to panic and the only way to fight coronavirus was to keep ones morale high. He had remained in home isolation for 17 days and according to him the management at home by maintaining distance with other family members was the main thing. Singh claimed he was in isolation for 17 days but since March he was in the habit of remaining separate from his family members and that was why his family members had tested negative. While sharing his experience he said, “I cannot say from where I got infected with coronavirus. I was suffering from fever in the initial two days and as per government guidelines I got myself tested for Covid-19 and it came positive.” He said since then he was quarantined at his home only. To keep his morale high he kept on reading books at home and also went through online acts or other useful study material. Singh while giving a message to city residents claimed that there was no need to panic unless there were some serious symptoms or the person was suffering from some serious ailment. He said he avoided cold water and milk and instead took warm milk, water and kahwa, along with a nutritious diet. He said he was living with his wife and two sons but he was determined to stay away from them during the quarantine period as it was for their safety. He said if anybody was in home isolation, then he should follow the directions of the government and should not come in contact of anybody, only then purpose of quarantine was fulfilled. He said he was not having any major symptoms by the grace of God. The zonal commissioner on being asked whether any changes had come in his working after recovering from Covid-19, he said, “I have been taking all precautions since March as apart from handling the MC work I was taking care of ration distribution, sending the migrants home and I was also having the charge of three quarantine centres for necessary arrangements.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-joint-commissioner-recovers-from-covid-joins-duty/articleshow/77269778.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Trichy||Vigil up as 23 inmates of old age home test positive in Trichy||Trichy: Trichy corporation plans to screen old age homes in all its four zones after 23 senior citizens including 16 women residing in an old age home tested positive for Covid-19 till Thursday. The home’s management said the inmates and caretakers contracted the infection despite being confined indoors.St Antony’s home for aged at Kattur falls under Ariyamangalam zone. A few days ago, a woman inmate of the home was taken to Kattur urban primary health centre (UPHC) and tested for Covid-19. As the result came positive, samples from all the 108 senior citizens aged between 60 and 80 years were collected on July 27. As many as 22 of them including seven men tested positive. A majority of them being symptomatic were shifted to MGMGH. “This is shocking because even the caretakers and nurses stay within the campus. We have provided face masks and automatic hand sanitiser dispenser,” Sister Arul Antony, in-charge, St Antony’s home for aged, told TOI. The management said they have informed the relatives of the senior citizens who tested positive, while the remaining inmates will be moved to available individual rooms on the campus. The old age home said that the cook and milkman are the only ones who come from outside. While the campus was disinfected, the incident has pushed the city corporation to direct sanitary officials in all four zones to identify old age homes in their jurisdictions, particularly in Srirangam zone. “We will screen all old age homes to identify symptomatic senior citizens. Since they are vulnerable, the entire home will be tested if one of the inmates turn positive,“ corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/vigil-up-as-23-inmates-of-old-age-home-test-positive-in-trichy/articleshow/77272399.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Execution of policy will be a challenge: Mohan Reddy||Hyderabad: The execution of the National Education Policy 2020 (NEP-2020) will be a key challenge, feels BVR Mohan Reddy, executive chairman of Cyient and chairman of the board of governors of Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad (IIT-H). “Education is a concrete subject and the framework of the NEP is commendable on paper. However, its execution on ground will be a key challenge considering that the state governments will play a vital role in its implementation,” said Reddy, hoping that the implementation is not only meticulously chalked out but is also executed in a time-bound manner. He expressed concerns over the tight compartmentalization between knowledge and skill-based education. “Countries such as Germany don’t differentiate between knowledge and skill education. Then what is the need to treat vocational education separately? Flexibility to have a multi-disciplinary approach towards learning is appreciable. When technology does not compartmentalize any more then why are we,” said Reddy. He said that the policy presents several forward-looking initiatives for universal access of education and paves way for high student-inclusion. He also lauded the move to abolish multiple regulatory bodies and have a single regulatory body (Higher Education Commission of India) for all.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/execution-of-policy-will-be-a-challenge-mohan-reddy/articleshow/77271352.cms||Preeti Biswas
July 31, 2020||Ludhiana||MC notice to multi-storey shopping complex owner||Ludhiana: The municipal corporation officials have served a notice to the owner of a multi-storey shop complex near Chand Cinema and asked him to get the excess and illegal portion of the building extending on to the roadside razed in three days. The building is already sealed by the officials as it does not fulfil the building bylaws. The building was sealed after city-based RTI activist Rohit Sabharwal had made complaints to senior officials of the MC. The complaint regarding excess road coverage was also made by him. The civic body officials served the notice to the owner to dismantle the illegal portion or if he wants to give any justification in this regard he can come to the MC office in three days or else the civic body will consider he had nothing to say and demolition would be carried out by them. On Thursday, the officials also put red marks on the illegal portion of the building. The activist had complained that the owner had constructed stairs, which were encroaching upon a portion of th road and were illegal. This complex was being constructed while caring little about the norms and there were many shortcomings in the building. First of all, no parking space was designated in the complex despite the fact that more than 60 shops were being constructed on the 267 sq yds of land. The building plan was approved but two additional floors were being constructed in the building. Besides, it has also not fulfilled the fire norms and other safety standards. Earlier, also MC officials had written a letter for registering an FIR against the owner of the building and one letter was issued to powercom for not giving electricity connection to this building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-notice-to-multi-storey-shopping-complex-owner/articleshow/77269787.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Jodhpur||Jodhpur cops file case against school for holding classes despite Covid||JODHPUR: Police have filed a case against a school for running classes despite a ban because of Covid. The owner of the school has been also been warned against calling students to school for classes. SHO (Chopasni Housing Board) Govind Vyas said a police team raided Apex Senior Secondary School in Sobhavaton ki Dhani area on Thursday following a tip-off. “We found around 40 students in a classroom. All students belonged to class 12 and were flouting social distancing norms,” said Vyas, adding that students were asked to leave the school. “We registered case under IPC Sections 269 and 270 and Epidemic Disease Act for endangering human lives,” said Vyas, adding that the owner of the school was also restricted from holding classes in future. Besides this, police have also filed a case against unidentified persons for spreading rumours that the administration was going to introduce lockdown in the city soon. According to police, a video which went viral, said to be released by the district magistrate, said a decision had been taken to impose lockdown in the city from July 31 to August 4. “To prevent panic among the people, we registered a case in Udai Mandir police station against the persons behind it”, said an officer. The district magistrate also came out with a clarification about this video stating it was just a rumour and there was no plans to impose a lockdown in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/cops-file-case-against-school-for-holding-classes-despite-covid/articleshow/77278562.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Stormwater drain network study begins||Hyderabad: Efforts to study the decades-old stormwater drainage network of the city have begun. The Osmania University’s civil engineering department in collaboration with US-based Texas A&M University has taken up a comprehensive study jointly for a period of three years on the existing stormwater drainage system. As part of the study, the OU's civil engineering department on Thursday installed the ultrasonic flow measuring meter at Balkapur nala, on the premises of a 20MLD capacity od sewage treatment plant (STP) at Khairatabad to measure the depth of drainage flow. Head of department, civil engineering, OU, M Gopal Naik, a key person behind the study, told TOI, “the data of flows of stormwater drainage and rainfall up to three years will be recorded and certain measures will be recommended to get rid of flash floods.” Another meter will be installed in a couple of days at a stormwater drain near Katta Maisamma temple at Begumpet, he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stormwater-drain-network-study-begins/articleshow/77271365.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Vadodara||96 new cases, over 1,000 now under treatment||VADODARA: New Covid-19 cases registered in the city and district since Wednesday evening equalled the peak of 96 cases made on Monday. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) confirmed the deaths of three more persons due to the viral infection. The fresh cases were detected from 807 tests conducted across the city and district since Wednesday evening. This is the highest number of tests performed in the area so far. With the new cases, the total number of persons who have tested positive went up to 4,572. The highest number of new cases were reported from south zone that saw 34 persons testing positive. This was followed by 22 in the west zone, 11 in the east zone and six in the north zone. As many as 23 persons tested positive in the rural parts of the district. These include persons in Dabhoi, Karjan, Padra, Kalali, Sokhda, Nandesari and Fertilizernagar. The total number of victims of Covid-19 in the city and district reached 87 with the deaths of three more persons being confirmed. The deaths include only those who succumbed to Covid-19 being the primary cause of death. The number of persons under treatment for Covid-19 has now reached 1,029. These include 50 persons on ventilators or BIPAP machines. Thirty-one persons were discharged from various hospitals on Thursday taking the total number of discharged persons up to 3,456.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/96-new-cases-over-1000-now-under-treatment/articleshow/77268050.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Nagpur||Geet defeats disability with 88.8% in SSC||NAGPUR: No disabilities can ever step in the way if a child is determined enough. One such student from city’s Vidarbha Buniyadi High School, Geet Koche, has became an inspiration for many after securing 88.8% in the SSC examination despite suffering from general learning disability. Geet overcame the difficulties with his hard work and support from the parents and teachers who motivated him to study well. “My teachers never treated me like a student with special needs,” said Geet. “My mother would teach me after school hours which also helped me score well. I had a home tutor who was equally patient with me. My favourite subjects were English and History,” said Geet acknowledging the support he got in achieving the feat. Inputs by Anchal Bhatia||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/geet-defeats-disability-with-88-8-in-ssc/articleshow/77271321.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Trichy||More mass screening at hotspots in Trichy||Trichy: Trichy City Corporation has increased the number of mass screenings with a focus on hotspots. A fever screening was conducted at Gandhi market as it has been attracting a lot of crowd amid the lockdown. Samples were collected from 93 people including shopkeepers for RT-PCR test. Street vendors, grocery shopkeepers and people selling agriculture products, their employees in and around Gandhi Market were called for fever screening on Wednesday. Swabs form symptomatic and vulnerable people with comorbidities were collected on the spot. Around 154 took part in the fever survey. Corporation officials said that market area had people arriving from various parts of the district. Trucks from other districts frequent the East Boulevard (EB) Road, which is also not too far away from the market. The mass screening was planned to identify Covid-19 cases and prevent the local spread. This is the second such screening being conducted in the area. Earlier, in the first week of July, 47 vegetable vendors from EB Road Mathuram School ground market were tested. Three of them tested positive. “We are expecting the results to be shared in a day. Based on the positivity rate, more screenings will be planned in other hotspots,” a sanitary official said. The civic body sources added that Eda Street and Tharanallur localities have reported many positive cases recently. Further, the civic body hinted at conducting a mass screening at Tharanallur soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/more-mass-screening-at-hotspots-in-trichy/articleshow/77272411.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Jaipur||Jodhpur cops file case against school for holding classes despite Covid||JODHPUR: Police have filed a case against a school for running classes despite a ban because of Covid. The owner of the school has been also been warned against calling students to school for classes. SHO (Chopasni Housing Board) Govind Vyas said a police team raided Apex Senior Secondary School in Sobhavaton ki Dhani area on Thursday following a tip-off. “We found around 40 students in a classroom. All students belonged to class 12 and were flouting social distancing norms,” said Vyas, adding that students were asked to leave the school. “We registered case under IPC Sections 269 and 270 and Epidemic Disease Act for endangering human lives,” said Vyas, adding that the owner of the school was also restricted from holding classes in future. Besides this, police have also filed a case against unidentified persons for spreading rumours that the administration was going to introduce lockdown in the city soon. According to police, a video which went viral, said to be released by the district magistrate, said a decision had been taken to impose lockdown in the city from July 31 to August 4. “To prevent panic among the people, we registered a case in Udai Mandir police station against the persons behind it”, said an officer. The district magistrate also came out with a clarification about this video stating it was just a rumour and there was no plans to impose a lockdown in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-file-case-against-school-for-holding-classes-despite-covid/articleshow/77271362.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Ajmer||Localised lockdowns in few districts of Rajasthan as cases surge||JAIPUR: The Centre might have announced Unlock 3.0 allowing more economic activities, but certain parts of the state are witnessing a spike in Covid cases. The local administration is such areas are now resorting on the ‘tried and tested’ strategy of imposing lockdown in small pockets and in some other places duration of night curfew has been extended. Alwar district collector has announced lockdown in Kotwali police station area, which has seen a surge in cases. However in Kota, lockdowns will be imposed on Sundays. The state government has recently authorised district collectors to take decisions on imposing localised lockdown depending on the situation. Alwar lockdown to continue till August 12Alwar: District collector Anandi on Thursday imposed lockdown order in Alwar for two weeks citing the spike in Covid cases. Police have barricaded the main points in the district and will allow movement of people who have passes issued by the district administration and police. During the lockdown period, shops dealing with essential items will remain open from 7 am to 11am. Restrictions have been imposed in areas under Kotwali police station and people are not allowed to move out of their houses, except in emergency situations. Roadways buses, which were plying from Kotwali area, will now operate from Kala Kuan to Jaipur and other districts. In all, 35 areas will be under lockdown and around 400 policemen have been deployed in the areas. Duration of night curfew extended in JodhpurJodhpur: The district administration has rescheduled the night curfew timings from 10 pm to 5am to 8pm to 6am so that people remain indoors for a longer period. District magistrate Indrajit Singh said only essential services would be permitted during this period and movement of people for non-essential services would be completely prohibited. Jodhpur has reported the highest number of Covid cases in the state. The district administration is also considering to announce a janta curfew on Saturdays and Sundays, but no decision has yet been taken so far. Over 3 dozen containment zones have been announced in the city in the past few days.  Jalore also has declared Sanchore and Bhinmal subdivisions as containment zones for a week each following a surge in cases. Though cases have consistently been reported in Pali and Sirohi districts, no special measures have been introduced by the administrations in these districts so far. Barmer remained in lockdown for 7 days Barmer: When cases started swelling, the Barmer district administration had imposed lockdown from July 3 to July 10. In June, 250 persons were found infected with the virus in Barmer, which has now increased by more than four times. More than 1,100 cases have been reported in July. The first case in Barmer was reported on April 8 and the second was reported on April 23. In April, there were only two cases, but by May 30, the numbers reached 98 and in the last 30 days the cases have crossed 1,100. Bundi shutdown continuesKota: In Bundi, district authorities on Tuesday enforced a 7-day localised lockdown in municipal council periphery with some hours of relaxation. It will continue till August 3. Movement of vehicles, both two and three wheelers, within the main markets of Bundi city remained banned for a long time even after Unlock 1.0 that helped to stop crowding at shops. Baran district collector on Wednesday enforced night curbs on public movement and business activities in the markets from 6 pm to 8 am on Saturdays and Sundays. Jhalawar district collector also ordered zero mobility across the district on Saturdays and Sundays from 8 pm to 6 am. Lockdown in Kota on SundaysIn Kota, the district collector, following a discussion with representatives of trade and business organizations of the city, decided to enforce lockdown on Sundays and allowed markets to remain open from 8 am to 8 pm every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/localised-lockdowns-in-few-dists-as-cases-surge/articleshow/77281422.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Ludhiana||Jagraon bridge work halted, inquiry marked||Ludhiana: Taking note of the stoppage of work of the retaining wall of Jagraon bridge for the last four days, Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Thursday asked mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal to visit the site. The mayor and MC commissioner visited the site on Thursday evening and ordered an inquiry into the matter as to why the work was halted for four days despite the fact that all payments had been made to the contractor. Sandhu said that the MC officials had prepared a revised estimate of around Rs 40 lakh for the ongoing construction work. “We will get the estimate inquired from the experts from Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College and Punjab Agricultural University. We have also marked a high-level inquiry to find out as to why the work was halted despite the fact that all payments had been cleared,” said the mayor. He said that any MC official found guilty of misguiding senior MC officials would not be spared and strict action would be taken against them. He assured the residents that the work related to the Jagraon bridge was near completion and it would be opened to vehicular traffic in the next few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/jagraon-bridge-work-halted-inquiry-marked/articleshow/77269797.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Bengaluru||With pandemic on, families opt for virtual Qurbani this Eid al-Adha||BENGALURU: With Covid raging, families are opting for ‘virtual Qurbani’ this Eid al-Adha (Bakrid), right from choosing the sacrificial animal to distributing the meat. In pre-pandemic times, most families would personally visit farms, purchase an animal, bring it home and monitor all the steps. Now, everything has gone virtual. Take for instance Mohammed Shafi, who said his earliest memory of Eid Al-Adha was of his family bringing a sheep home a few days before the festival. “I used to look forward to playing with the sheep,” Shafi, a businessman, said. “I live in a joint family so all my cousins would feed the sheep and even walk it on the streets. My kids used to do it. This is the first time we have not brought a sheep home.” He said going out to purchase a sheep and taking care of it outdoors is not even an option in the time of the pandemic. This year, the festival falls on Saturday. “We have asked a seller on the city’s outskirts to perform the Qurbani on our behalf. We chose the sheep through a video call,” he said. The sacrifice per se will not be on video. During Eid al-Adha, the meat of the sacrificial animal is divided into three parts – one for the family, another for relatives and third for the poor. In the virtual version, people are opting for the meat to be couriered directly to the respective families or given to charity on the ground. “Normally, the kids would go from door-to-door distributing the meat, but this year, it will be distributed by the seller,” Shafi said. His family will get its share by courier. Hazrath Hafiz Sabir Hussain, Imam of Jamia Masjid, Magadi Road, said one can always ask someone else to perform the Qurbani for them. “Virtual Qurbani is basically asking someone else to perform it on your behalf. If your intention is pure and you share it with your relatives and the poor, it should be accepted,” Hussain said. Abdul Muhaimeen, owner of NR Farms in Bannerghatta, said this is the first time he is conducting virtual Qurbani. “Customers trust us, but it is also our responsibility to ensure transparency. We show them the animal and weigh it on video calls,” Muhaimeen said. This year, Muhaimeen will also pack the meat in boxes and courier or distribute it as per the customer’s instructions. “All of this is done in an extremely sanitized environment. Everyone is in Covid-proof attire,” he said. Muhaimeen said the pandemic has hit demand as well. He is selling only about 55-65 sheep compared to 120-110 last year. “Prices have also gone up. If last year a 30kg sheep cost Rs 12,000, this year it will be more than Rs 15,000,” he said adding that they charge Rs 1,000 for the extra services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/with-pandemic-on-families-opt-for-virtual-qurbani-this-eid-al-adha/articleshow/77269858.cms||Farheen Hussain
July 31, 2020||Jaipur||Localised lockdowns in few districts of Rajasthan as cases surge||JAIPUR: The Centre might have announced Unlock 3.0 allowing more economic activities, but certain parts of the state are witnessing a spike in Covid cases. The local administration is such areas are now resorting on the ‘tried and tested’ strategy of imposing lockdown in small pockets and in some other places duration of night curfew has been extended. Alwar district collector has announced lockdown in Kotwali police station area, which has seen a surge in cases. However in Kota, lockdowns will be imposed on Sundays. The state government has recently authorised district collectors to take decisions on imposing localised lockdown depending on the situation. Alwar lockdown to continue till August 12Alwar: District collector Anandi on Thursday imposed lockdown order in Alwar for two weeks citing the spike in Covid cases. Police have barricaded the main points in the district and will allow movement of people who have passes issued by the district administration and police. During the lockdown period, shops dealing with essential items will remain open from 7 am to 11am. Restrictions have been imposed in areas under Kotwali police station and people are not allowed to move out of their houses, except in emergency situations. Roadways buses, which were plying from Kotwali area, will now operate from Kala Kuan to Jaipur and other districts. In all, 35 areas will be under lockdown and around 400 policemen have been deployed in the areas. Duration of night curfew extended in JodhpurJodhpur: The district administration has rescheduled the night curfew timings from 10 pm to 5am to 8pm to 6am so that people remain indoors for a longer period. District magistrate Indrajit Singh said only essential services would be permitted during this period and movement of people for non-essential services would be completely prohibited. Jodhpur has reported the highest number of Covid cases in the state. The district administration is also considering to announce a janta curfew on Saturdays and Sundays, but no decision has yet been taken so far. Over 3 dozen containment zones have been announced in the city in the past few days.  Jalore also has declared Sanchore and Bhinmal subdivisions as containment zones for a week each following a surge in cases. Though cases have consistently been reported in Pali and Sirohi districts, no special measures have been introduced by the administrations in these districts so far. Barmer remained in lockdown for 7 days Barmer: When cases started swelling, the Barmer district administration had imposed lockdown from July 3 to July 10. In June, 250 persons were found infected with the virus in Barmer, which has now increased by more than four times. More than 1,100 cases have been reported in July. The first case in Barmer was reported on April 8 and the second was reported on April 23. In April, there were only two cases, but by May 30, the numbers reached 98 and in the last 30 days the cases have crossed 1,100. Bundi shutdown continuesKota: In Bundi, district authorities on Tuesday enforced a 7-day localised lockdown in municipal council periphery with some hours of relaxation. It will continue till August 3. Movement of vehicles, both two and three wheelers, within the main markets of Bundi city remained banned for a long time even after Unlock 1.0 that helped to stop crowding at shops. Baran district collector on Wednesday enforced night curbs on public movement and business activities in the markets from 6 pm to 8 am on Saturdays and Sundays. Jhalawar district collector also ordered zero mobility across the district on Saturdays and Sundays from 8 pm to 6 am. Lockdown in Kota on SundaysIn Kota, the district collector, following a discussion with representatives of trade and business organizations of the city, decided to enforce lockdown on Sundays and allowed markets to remain open from 8 am to 8 pm every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/localised-lockdowns-in-few-dists-as-cases-surge/articleshow/77271379.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Jodhpur||Localised lockdowns in few districts of Rajasthan as cases surge||JAIPUR: The Centre might have announced Unlock 3.0 allowing more economic activities, but certain parts of the state are witnessing a spike in Covid cases. The local administration is such areas are now resorting on the ‘tried and tested’ strategy of imposing lockdown in small pockets and in some other places duration of night curfew has been extended. Alwar district collector has announced lockdown in Kotwali police station area, which has seen a surge in cases. However in Kota, lockdowns will be imposed on Sundays. The state government has recently authorised district collectors to take decisions on imposing localised lockdown depending on the situation. Alwar lockdown to continue till August 12Alwar: District collector Anandi on Thursday imposed lockdown order in Alwar for two weeks citing the spike in Covid cases. Police have barricaded the main points in the district and will allow movement of people who have passes issued by the district administration and police. During the lockdown period, shops dealing with essential items will remain open from 7 am to 11am. Restrictions have been imposed in areas under Kotwali police station and people are not allowed to move out of their houses, except in emergency situations. Roadways buses, which were plying from Kotwali area, will now operate from Kala Kuan to Jaipur and other districts. In all, 35 areas will be under lockdown and around 400 policemen have been deployed in the areas. Duration of night curfew extended in JodhpurJodhpur: The district administration has rescheduled the night curfew timings from 10 pm to 5am to 8pm to 6am so that people remain indoors for a longer period. District magistrate Indrajit Singh said only essential services would be permitted during this period and movement of people for non-essential services would be completely prohibited. Jodhpur has reported the highest number of Covid cases in the state. The district administration is also considering to announce a janta curfew on Saturdays and Sundays, but no decision has yet been taken so far. Over 3 dozen containment zones have been announced in the city in the past few days.  Jalore also has declared Sanchore and Bhinmal subdivisions as containment zones for a week each following a surge in cases. Though cases have consistently been reported in Pali and Sirohi districts, no special measures have been introduced by the administrations in these districts so far. Barmer remained in lockdown for 7 days Barmer: When cases started swelling, the Barmer district administration had imposed lockdown from July 3 to July 10. In June, 250 persons were found infected with the virus in Barmer, which has now increased by more than four times. More than 1,100 cases have been reported in July. The first case in Barmer was reported on April 8 and the second was reported on April 23. In April, there were only two cases, but by May 30, the numbers reached 98 and in the last 30 days the cases have crossed 1,100. Bundi shutdown continuesKota: In Bundi, district authorities on Tuesday enforced a 7-day localised lockdown in municipal council periphery with some hours of relaxation. It will continue till August 3. Movement of vehicles, both two and three wheelers, within the main markets of Bundi city remained banned for a long time even after Unlock 1.0 that helped to stop crowding at shops. Baran district collector on Wednesday enforced night curbs on public movement and business activities in the markets from 6 pm to 8 am on Saturdays and Sundays. Jhalawar district collector also ordered zero mobility across the district on Saturdays and Sundays from 8 pm to 6 am. Lockdown in Kota on SundaysIn Kota, the district collector, following a discussion with representatives of trade and business organizations of the city, decided to enforce lockdown on Sundays and allowed markets to remain open from 8 am to 8 pm every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/localised-lockdowns-in-few-dists-as-cases-surge/articleshow/77281420.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Hyderabad||SCCL rolls out solar plant at Manuguru||Hyderabad: The Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) on Thursday commissioned a 30 MW solar power plant at Manuguru and synchronised it to the grid. This is part of the 129 MW solar plants planned by SCCL in the first phase. The coal mining agency is planning to roll out solar power plants to generate 300 MW in various parts of Telangana. SCCL chairman and managing director N Sridhar said a 10 MW solar plant at Jaipur in Mancherial district was commissioned and now with the start of the Manuguru plant, 40 MW of power is being supplied to the state grid. He said the balance plants would come up at Ramagundam-3 area with 50 MW capacity and another 30 MW in Yellandu would be rolled out in next two months. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sccl-rolls-out-solar-plant-at-manuguru/articleshow/77271371.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Udaipur||Localised lockdowns in few districts of Rajasthan as cases surge||JAIPUR: The Centre might have announced Unlock 3.0 allowing more economic activities, but certain parts of the state are witnessing a spike in Covid cases. The local administration is such areas are now resorting on the ‘tried and tested’ strategy of imposing lockdown in small pockets and in some other places duration of night curfew has been extended. Alwar district collector has announced lockdown in Kotwali police station area, which has seen a surge in cases. However in Kota, lockdowns will be imposed on Sundays. The state government has recently authorised district collectors to take decisions on imposing localised lockdown depending on the situation. Alwar lockdown to continue till August 12Alwar: District collector Anandi on Thursday imposed lockdown order in Alwar for two weeks citing the spike in Covid cases. Police have barricaded the main points in the district and will allow movement of people who have passes issued by the district administration and police. During the lockdown period, shops dealing with essential items will remain open from 7 am to 11am. Restrictions have been imposed in areas under Kotwali police station and people are not allowed to move out of their houses, except in emergency situations. Roadways buses, which were plying from Kotwali area, will now operate from Kala Kuan to Jaipur and other districts. In all, 35 areas will be under lockdown and around 400 policemen have been deployed in the areas. Duration of night curfew extended in JodhpurJodhpur: The district administration has rescheduled the night curfew timings from 10 pm to 5am to 8pm to 6am so that people remain indoors for a longer period. District magistrate Indrajit Singh said only essential services would be permitted during this period and movement of people for non-essential services would be completely prohibited. Jodhpur has reported the highest number of Covid cases in the state. The district administration is also considering to announce a janta curfew on Saturdays and Sundays, but no decision has yet been taken so far. Over 3 dozen containment zones have been announced in the city in the past few days.  Jalore also has declared Sanchore and Bhinmal subdivisions as containment zones for a week each following a surge in cases. Though cases have consistently been reported in Pali and Sirohi districts, no special measures have been introduced by the administrations in these districts so far. Barmer remained in lockdown for 7 days Barmer: When cases started swelling, the Barmer district administration had imposed lockdown from July 3 to July 10. In June, 250 persons were found infected with the virus in Barmer, which has now increased by more than four times. More than 1,100 cases have been reported in July. The first case in Barmer was reported on April 8 and the second was reported on April 23. In April, there were only two cases, but by May 30, the numbers reached 98 and in the last 30 days the cases have crossed 1,100. Bundi shutdown continuesKota: In Bundi, district authorities on Tuesday enforced a 7-day localised lockdown in municipal council periphery with some hours of relaxation. It will continue till August 3. Movement of vehicles, both two and three wheelers, within the main markets of Bundi city remained banned for a long time even after Unlock 1.0 that helped to stop crowding at shops. Baran district collector on Wednesday enforced night curbs on public movement and business activities in the markets from 6 pm to 8 am on Saturdays and Sundays. Jhalawar district collector also ordered zero mobility across the district on Saturdays and Sundays from 8 pm to 6 am. Lockdown in Kota on SundaysIn Kota, the district collector, following a discussion with representatives of trade and business organizations of the city, decided to enforce lockdown on Sundays and allowed markets to remain open from 8 am to 8 pm every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/localised-lockdowns-in-few-dists-as-cases-surge/articleshow/77281418.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Jaipur||Maids working in hotspots to be tested||Ajmer: Maids working in different households of infected areas in the city will be tested for Covid-19 to stop the spread of virus. The district administration on Thursday issued guidelines for testing in Ajmer and directed to increase testing among veterans and those with chronic diseases. The administration also gave more powers to panchayat samitis to impose penalties on those violating Covid guidelines. District collector Prakash Purohit directed that those who are above 60 years and also those who are suffering from diabetes, hypertension, asthma and chronic kidney diseases should be tested. Maids working in hot spots will also be tested. Sampling of grocery shop owners, fruit and vegetable sellers will also be done, he added. The district administration asked the medical workers to use their judgement in sampling so as to stop the spread of infection in Ajmer. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/maids-working-in-hotspots-to-be-tested/articleshow/77271369.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Horticulture college in Malyala soon||Hyderabad: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has sanctioned a horticulture polytechnic college at Malyala village in Mahabubabad district, which will be functional from the next academic year. He announced this after Mahabubabad MLA Banothu Shankar Naik made a request to him on Thursday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/horticulture-college-in-malyala-soon/articleshow/77271410.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Delhi||Join hands to revive economy: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: In just four days since Delhi government launched its job portal ‘Rozgar Bazaar’ to bridge the gap between job providers and job seekers, 8,783 employers have posted more than 2.5 lakh vacancies and nearly 3.7 lakh job seekers have registered on the portal. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday also met representatives of 28 industrial associations of Delhi and urged them to join hands with the government in reviving the capital’s economy. Kejriwal listened to the suggestions made by the industry representatives and assured them of full support to ensure their operations return to normal, the government said in a statement. While acknowledging that these are challenging times, Kejriwal stressed on how Delhi defeated corona by coming together and the need of collective efforts of all the stakeholders, including industries, individuals, factories, businesses and governments, to work together towards the economic revival, the statement added. The chief minister assured industry representatives that he will personally go through each of their suggestions to revive Delhi’s economy and if need be, get Centre’s support too, the statement said. He said that many firms, businesses and industries are facing the issue of finding the right labour and manpower. On the other hand, those who lost their jobs during the lockdown in Delhi have not been able to find the right platform for better opportunities, he added. “I was watching on a TV channel that an owner of a jeans manufacturing unit said that he had a staff of 35 people in the unit, out of which only three are still working. He said that he was not able to find manpower due to which his manufacturing unit was still shut. He posted 35 job vacancies on the Delhi govt’s job portal and received more than 190 calls. I believe that our economy will receive a major push,” Kejriwal said. Among the nearly four lakh job-seekers who have registered on the portal, the highest number is for back office and data entry jobs, followed by customer care and tele-caller jobs, sales, marketing and business development, education-related jobs, accountants, HR and office administration jobs, warehouse, delivery services and logistical support, receptionists and IT, hardware and network engineers. The largest number of openings are for sales, marketing and business development jobs, followed by customer care and tele-caller jobs, among others. The statement said that industry associations lauded Kejriwal’s efforts in controlling the Covid situation in Delhi. They also appreciated the launch of the job portal, the statement added. Representatives of Confederation of Indian Industry, Badli Industrial Estate Association, Narela Industrial Complex Welfare Association, Okhla Chamber of Industries, Apex Chamber of Commerce and Bawana Manufacturers Welfare Association were among those present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/join-hands-to-revive-economy-cm/articleshow/77271438.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 31, 2020||Jaipur||Vande Bharat flights resume, customs officials on alert||Jaipur: The Vande Bharat flights resumed operations as an aircraft carrying expatriates from Sharjah landed here on Thursday. The resumption of services has put customs officials on high alert as many cases of gold smuggling surfaced recently. At least 10 flights would be arriving from United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Kyrgyzstan in near future. As per the airport sources, these flights would continue till August 13 when passengers from Dubai, Doha, Abu Dhabi, Sharjah and Kyrgyzstan would arrive. “Since we had witnessed smuggling cases in the past it is necessary for us to be vigilant. We have already decided that we might go for random checking of the passengers and their baggage,” said a senior officer of the customs department at the Jaipur airport. It may be recalled that in July the customs officials have cracked smuggling rackets and arrested 36 passengers from different flights will illegal possession of nearly 36 kg of gold. “Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Sharjah are cities where the gold sellers provide you the gold in various forms and the recent investigations suggested that gold smugglers of Rajasthan via calls book their gold and use carriers to bring it to evade import and customs duty,” said an officer. Airport authorities said the next flight is slated to arrive on August 2 from Kyrgyzstan, August, August 4 from Doha and Abu Dhabi, August 6 from Dubai and August 8 from Sharjah. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/vande-bharat-flights-resume-customs-officials-on-alert/articleshow/77271440.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Ajmer||Covid-19: 15 lakh tests done, recovery rate gets little better in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: On a day when some districts took stringent measures imposing movement restrictions in badly-affected areas due to Covid, the state set a new record of biggest single-day spike of 1,156 cases on Thursday. State reported 13 deaths too, taking its toll to 667. For six days in a row, the state reported more than 1,000 cases. For the first time, five districts reported more than 100 cases including Alwar (193), Jodhpur (153), Jaipur (116), Kota (108) and Ajmer (107). The day also saw Covid testing crossing the 15 lakh mark with 15,00,693 persons having undergone the tests. So far, 40,936 have been found infected with the virus. The positivity rate is 8.17 in the state. The figures show that 530 persons out of every 1 million people in the state have tested positive. Besides, for every 1 million of population in the state, 19,423 people had undergone Covid tests. The recovery rate has improved slightly to 71.4%. The growth rate has also taken a dip from 3.3% to 3%. It was due to the fact that cases on Thursday increased marginally in comparison to cases reported on Wednesday (1142). Active cases touched new high of 11,038, up from 10,817 on Wednesday. Except three districts, all the 30 districts contributed to the biggest single-day spike. Districts which reported new cases are Alwar (193), Jodhpur (153), Jaipur (116), Kota (108) and Ajmer (107), Bikaner (72), Bharatpur (70), Nagaur (51), Pali (48), Bhilwara (31), Barmer (29), Rajsamand (23), Sriganganagar (22), Chittorgarh (19), Jhalawar (18), Jaisalmer (17), Karauli (9), Sirohi (9), Tonk (7), Baran (7), Bundi (7), Jhunjhunu (6), Dungarpur (5), Churu (5), Banswara (5), Sawai Madhopur (5), Dausa (4), Dholpur (4), Udaipur (4) and Hanumangarh (2). Sawai Madhopur reported its 12th fatality, Nagaur reported two deaths taking its casualties to 25, Jaipur reported its 184th death, Bikaner reported two fatalities taking its toll to 38, three people died in Ajmer taking its toll to 41, Jodhpur reported two deaths taking its toll to 83, Barmer reported its 11th fatality and the casualty figure touched 16 in Alwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/15-lakh-tests-done-recovery-rate-gets-little-better-in-raj/articleshow/77278031.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Udaipur||Covid-19: 15 lakh tests done, recovery rate gets little better in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: On a day when some districts took stringent measures imposing movement restrictions in badly-affected areas due to Covid, the state set a new record of biggest single-day spike of 1,156 cases on Thursday. State reported 13 deaths too, taking its toll to 667. For six days in a row, the state reported more than 1,000 cases. For the first time, five districts reported more than 100 cases including Alwar (193), Jodhpur (153), Jaipur (116), Kota (108) and Ajmer (107). The day also saw Covid testing crossing the 15 lakh mark with 15,00,693 persons having undergone the tests. So far, 40,936 have been found infected with the virus. The positivity rate is 8.17 in the state. The figures show that 530 persons out of every 1 million people in the state have tested positive. Besides, for every 1 million of population in the state, 19,423 people had undergone Covid tests. The recovery rate has improved slightly to 71.4%. The growth rate has also taken a dip from 3.3% to 3%. It was due to the fact that cases on Thursday increased marginally in comparison to cases reported on Wednesday (1142). Active cases touched new high of 11,038, up from 10,817 on Wednesday. Except three districts, all the 30 districts contributed to the biggest single-day spike. Districts which reported new cases are Alwar (193), Jodhpur (153), Jaipur (116), Kota (108) and Ajmer (107), Bikaner (72), Bharatpur (70), Nagaur (51), Pali (48), Bhilwara (31), Barmer (29), Rajsamand (23), Sriganganagar (22), Chittorgarh (19), Jhalawar (18), Jaisalmer (17), Karauli (9), Sirohi (9), Tonk (7), Baran (7), Bundi (7), Jhunjhunu (6), Dungarpur (5), Churu (5), Banswara (5), Sawai Madhopur (5), Dausa (4), Dholpur (4), Udaipur (4) and Hanumangarh (2). Sawai Madhopur reported its 12th fatality, Nagaur reported two deaths taking its casualties to 25, Jaipur reported its 184th death, Bikaner reported two fatalities taking its toll to 38, three people died in Ajmer taking its toll to 41, Jodhpur reported two deaths taking its toll to 83, Barmer reported its 11th fatality and the casualty figure touched 16 in Alwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/15-lakh-tests-done-recovery-rate-gets-little-better-in-raj/articleshow/77278030.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: 15 lakh tests done, recovery rate gets little better in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: On a day when some districts took stringent measures imposing movement restrictions in badly-affected areas due to Covid, the state set a new record of biggest single-day spike of 1,156 cases on Thursday. State reported 13 deaths too, taking its toll to 667. For six days in a row, the state reported more than 1,000 cases. For the first time, five districts reported more than 100 cases including Alwar (193), Jodhpur (153), Jaipur (116), Kota (108) and Ajmer (107). The day also saw Covid testing crossing the 15 lakh mark with 15,00,693 persons having undergone the tests. So far, 40,936 have been found infected with the virus. The positivity rate is 8.17 in the state. The figures show that 530 persons out of every 1 million people in the state have tested positive. Besides, for every 1 million of population in the state, 19,423 people had undergone Covid tests. The recovery rate has improved slightly to 71.4%. The growth rate has also taken a dip from 3.3% to 3%. It was due to the fact that cases on Thursday increased marginally in comparison to cases reported on Wednesday (1142). Active cases touched new high of 11,038, up from 10,817 on Wednesday. Except three districts, all the 30 districts contributed to the biggest single-day spike. Districts which reported new cases are Alwar (193), Jodhpur (153), Jaipur (116), Kota (108) and Ajmer (107), Bikaner (72), Bharatpur (70), Nagaur (51), Pali (48), Bhilwara (31), Barmer (29), Rajsamand (23), Sriganganagar (22), Chittorgarh (19), Jhalawar (18), Jaisalmer (17), Karauli (9), Sirohi (9), Tonk (7), Baran (7), Bundi (7), Jhunjhunu (6), Dungarpur (5), Churu (5), Banswara (5), Sawai Madhopur (5), Dausa (4), Dholpur (4), Udaipur (4) and Hanumangarh (2). Sawai Madhopur reported its 12th fatality, Nagaur reported two deaths taking its casualties to 25, Jaipur reported its 184th death, Bikaner reported two fatalities taking its toll to 38, three people died in Ajmer taking its toll to 41, Jodhpur reported two deaths taking its toll to 83, Barmer reported its 11th fatality and the casualty figure touched 16 in Alwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/15-lakh-tests-done-recovery-rate-gets-little-better-in-raj/articleshow/77271414.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Nagpur||Man in Australia booked for torture, cheating||NAGPUR: Apurva Joshi, a chemical engineer working in Pune, lodged a complaint against Australia resident Swayam Joshi, his mother Archana and sister Sejal for cheating and torturing her mentally and physically, leading to financial loss of Rs25 lakhs. It’s learnt that Apurva came to know about Swayam through a matrimonial site. After the families met, Apurva and Swayam entered into wedlock in January. This was despite Apurva having already lodged a complaint in December 2019 against Swayam, but no action being initiated on it. She joined Swayam in Australia in February, and in June, returned alone. In her complaint, she mentioned that Swayam’s profile said he was studying and also earning in Australia. In reality, she claimed, Swayam was not earning anything, and that he made her cough up a substantial amount and made demands of other valuables. An offence was registered against the Joshi family at Bajaj Nagar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-in-australia-booked-for-torture-cheating/articleshow/77271377.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Pedestrian dies in road accident, death sparks protest in Mahbubnagar village||Hyderabad: Mild tension prevailed at Thirumalapur village in Mahabubnagar on Thursday as villagers staged a protest following death of a pedestrian after he was reportedly hit by a lorry. According to Mahabubnagar police, K Narasimhulu (51) was allegedly walking in an inebriated condition at the time of the accident. “Narasimhulu was an alcoholic. He used to stop the local sand lorries and collect money to buy drinks. We suspect that he accidentally fell in front of the lorry,” police told TOI. Police said that as locals started to gather at the site, the driver fled from the spot. Meanwhile, there were reports that Narasimhulu’s death was due to the mining mafia as he was fighting against sand mining. However, police dismissed the reports. Villagers protested for four hours demanding compensation from the lorry owner. The victim’s kin lodged a complaint with the police and a case was registered. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pedestrian-dies-in-road-accident-death-sparks-protest-in-mahbubnagar-village/articleshow/77271416.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Want to pee, then wear a helmet: LMA||SECUNDERABAD: Residents of Kakaguda-108 Bazar (Karkhana), a British-era civilian area, are in a fix, thanks to the local military authority’s (LMA) diktat. For the past six months, the people here are forced to wear a helmet to attend to nature’s call. Barring one, LMA closed all the entry/exit points to this bazar and those who want to use the washroom have to pass through the main gate wearing a helmet. The Kakaguda-108 Bazar is divided into Pocket-I, II and III. The 130-odd families living in Pocket-III have a common washroom facility which is 500 metres away from the main entrance. As all the other entries are closed, the Pocket-III residents have no other option but to move through the main entrance. To pass through that entry they have to undergo a thorough check and should have the headgear on. Though residents of Pocket-I and II use the same washroom facility, they have other means to reach there. “As Pocket-III is located on the same premises of army residential quarters, the main gate is the only access point now. Many have been staying here for several decades. About six months ago, the Army erected iron sheets and closed three entry points permanently. It’s a pathetic situation that to go to the toilet complex we have to wear a helmet. Many of us have to take a detour at least 800 metres to reach the main gate now. They don’t even allow us to have audible volume on our TVs,” said P Moti Das, a resident of 108-Bazar. These families are not even having proper water supply and have to depend on SCB’s water tankers. “The tankers supply water only once a week. We are facing severe water shortage,” said Ravi, a resident of the area. On Thursday, when MP A Revanth Reddy visited the area along with SCB president Brigadier Abhijit Chandra, the residents apprised them of the situation and urged them to resolve their issues. SCB CEO arranged a temporary mobile toilet vehicle and the MP requested Brigadier Abhijit Chandra to reopen all the three entry/exit points.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lma-want-to-pee-then-wear-a-helmet/articleshow/77271442.cms||Sunil Mungara
July 31, 2020||Jodhpur||Covid-19: 15 lakh tests done, recovery rate gets little better in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: On a day when some districts took stringent measures imposing movement restrictions in badly-affected areas due to Covid, the state set a new record of biggest single-day spike of 1,156 cases on Thursday. State reported 13 deaths too, taking its toll to 667. For six days in a row, the state reported more than 1,000 cases. For the first time, five districts reported more than 100 cases including Alwar (193), Jodhpur (153), Jaipur (116), Kota (108) and Ajmer (107). The day also saw Covid testing crossing the 15 lakh mark with 15,00,693 persons having undergone the tests. So far, 40,936 have been found infected with the virus. The positivity rate is 8.17 in the state. The figures show that 530 persons out of every 1 million people in the state have tested positive. Besides, for every 1 million of population in the state, 19,423 people had undergone Covid tests. The recovery rate has improved slightly to 71.4%. The growth rate has also taken a dip from 3.3% to 3%. It was due to the fact that cases on Thursday increased marginally in comparison to cases reported on Wednesday (1142). Active cases touched new high of 11,038, up from 10,817 on Wednesday. Except three districts, all the 30 districts contributed to the biggest single-day spike. Districts which reported new cases are Alwar (193), Jodhpur (153), Jaipur (116), Kota (108) and Ajmer (107), Bikaner (72), Bharatpur (70), Nagaur (51), Pali (48), Bhilwara (31), Barmer (29), Rajsamand (23), Sriganganagar (22), Chittorgarh (19), Jhalawar (18), Jaisalmer (17), Karauli (9), Sirohi (9), Tonk (7), Baran (7), Bundi (7), Jhunjhunu (6), Dungarpur (5), Churu (5), Banswara (5), Sawai Madhopur (5), Dausa (4), Dholpur (4), Udaipur (4) and Hanumangarh (2). Sawai Madhopur reported its 12th fatality, Nagaur reported two deaths taking its casualties to 25, Jaipur reported its 184th death, Bikaner reported two fatalities taking its toll to 38, three people died in Ajmer taking its toll to 41, Jodhpur reported two deaths taking its toll to 83, Barmer reported its 11th fatality and the casualty figure touched 16 in Alwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/15-lakh-tests-done-recovery-rate-gets-little-better-in-raj/articleshow/77278028.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Jaipur||Rs 1cr from MLA-LAD fund to be used for health infra||Jaipur: In a revised notification issued by the rural development department, it stated that under the MLA-LAD fund, Rs 1 crore each will be used for developing health infrastructure in the state from the allocation made for 2020-21 and 2021-22. The decision has been taken in view of the current Covid situation in the state.  Earlier, the notification stated, the total fund of Rs 2.25 crore, allocated under MLA-LAD, will be used to combat Covid pandemic. The revised notification issued by special secretary P C Kishan stated that, apart from Rs 1 crore which will be used for developing health infrastructure, the rest of the money can be used for other purposes depending on the local requirements. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-1cr-from-mla-lad-fund-to-be-used-for-health-infra/articleshow/77271455.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Bareilly||Nine Kheri villages evacuated after flooding||Bareilly: Lakhimpur Kheri district administration evacuated nine flood-hit villages and shifted their residents to relief camps on Thursday. Floodwaters have also entered several other villages. Incessant rainfall in the mountains has led to release of nearly 2.29 lakh cusecs into river Ghaghra and 2.12 cusecs in river Sharda by neighbouring Uttarakhand. More water is expected to be released in the coming days. An alert has been sounded as all the villages in low-lying areas near rivers are at risk of getting inundated over the next 72 hours. In anticipation of the floods, Kheri district administration had already set up flood relief and medical camps at higher places. The most-affected village is Chakdaha in Dhaurahra tehsil, where nearly 60 families had to be shifted to camps. The village is now under water and the administration used boats to reach the village to evacuate people. Sunandu Sudhakaran, SDM Dhaurahra, said, “The rivers are swollen and we have restricted the use of normal boats as they can capsize. A motorboat has been provided for rescue operations. Medicines, especially anti-venom against snakebite and anti-malaria drugs, have been made available at all the camps." Officials are in touch with barrage operators to have prior warnings on water released, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/nine-kheri-villages-evacuated-after-flooding/articleshow/77268614.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 31, 2020||Nagpur||Two axed to death in separate incidents||AMRAVATI: A 50-year-old man and a 32-year-old woman were brutally murdered in two separate incidents in the district on Thursday. Dhamangaon police said a woman, identified as Geeta Revan Ambadare, from Vaibhav Laxminagar locality in Old Dhamangaon was attacked with an axe by an unidentified person in the wee hours of Thursday. The accused also seriously injured her son Ravindra, 11. In the second incident which took place in Mangaldhan Society under Frezerpura police station, one Ajay Yadav and his five accomplices allegedly killed Kanhaiyya Manik Lidiya, 50, and seriously injured his wife Prabha, 40, and their son Darshan. Police said that the deceased was a neighbour of Yadav who has a cattle shed there. The dirty water from the shed used to flow towards the house of Lidiya and was causing breeding of mosquitoes. This has led to frequent wordy duels between Lidiya and Yadav. Lidiya was allegedly attacked by Yadav and his five friends with axes and canes in the shed. When Lidiya’s wife and son rushed to his help, they too were attacked. Police have registered offence of murder against the six accused who are at large.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-axed-to-death-in-separate-incidents/articleshow/77271409.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Academicians hail move on regulatory body||Hyderabad: Academicians welcomed the ministry of education’s policy decision to grant more autonomy and to have a single regulatory body for all institutions except medical and law colleges. “Granting of graded autonomy leaves no option for colleges but to grow. Hand-holding by universities and regulatory bodies will conclude if institutions are encouraged to take up responsibility for their own curriculum, exams and assessment,” said G Gopal Reddy, former member of UGC and senior research fellow, Indian Council for Social Science Research, New Delhi. In Telangana, less than 50 private colleges have autonomous status. Managements claim that extending graded autonomous status will only lead to closure of more colleges. On the establishment of a single regulatory body, S Ramachandram, former vice-chancellor of OU said, “Colleges have too many regulatory bodies to adhere to. Institutions are incapable of taking their own decisions .”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/academicians-hail-move-on-regulatory-body/articleshow/77271463.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Staff crunch hits Rayagada after 108 warriors test +ve||KORAPUT: Of the 693 people afflicted with Covid in Rayagada district, 108 are Covid warriors. Most of them are health and police personnel, leaving the district with a shortage of manpower in its fight against the disease. “The Covid warriors have been diligently discharging their duty for the past few months by adhering to the precautions. In spite of this, many of them have tested positive for the coronavirus,” said collector (Rayagada) Pramod Kumar Behera. He added that although the district was facing a shortage of officials, especially health staff, it was taking steps to use the available manpower judiciously to contain Covid-19. “The spirit of our men is high and our fight against the disease has been intensified. Out of the 108 infected Covid warriors, at least 31 have recovered. Most of them have rejoined duty,” the collector said. “Instructions have been issued to our frontline Covid warriors to take extra precautions while dealing with patients,” he added. On Thursday, the district recorded 45 Covid cases, includes among 16 frontline staff. Rayagada, which had only 175 cases till July 20, added 518 cases from then to July 30. Most of the cases were reported from Rayagada and Gunupur municipalities. The administration said the rising number of cases was due to more testing and intensive contact tracing. “It is a matter of concern that the majority of our Covid-19 cases are from the two urban areas of the district. While Rayagada town has 123 active cases, Gunupur has 85 active cases as on Thursday,” the collector said. “We appeal to all to strictly follow precautions against the disease while stepping out from their homes,” he added. While the district headquarters hospital in Rayagada was closed for 48 hours in two phases after a health staffer and a doctor were tested positive recently, the Rayagada town police station was closed for 48 hours as 12 policemen tested positive for Covid 19 on July 27. Police said over 30 of their staff, including an inspector-rank officer, have been tested positive for the disease and many of their staff are in home quarantine. Rayagada SP Saravana Vivek M said a 50-bed Covid care centre has been set up in the district.  “Many young police personnel are down with the disease but still our men are discharging their duties with utmost sincerity. Adequate steps have been taken to ensure that Covid-19 duties are not hampered,” said SDPO (Rayagada) Tapan Rath.  According to the officer, strict enforcement of Covid guidelines is being done in the district.  Meanwhile, an expert expressed apprehension that if the present trend of Covid positive cases continues for the next few days in the district then more Covid warriors could get infected and the administration may face serious challenge in its fight against the disease.  Rayagada, which had only 175 positive cases till July 20, added 518 cases in next 10 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/staff-crunch-hits-rayagada-after-108-warriors-test-ve/articleshow/77269880.cms||Satyanarayan Pattnaik
July 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi CM gives Rs 1 crore aid to kin of Covid warrior||NEW DELHI: Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday met the family of Corona Warrior Dr Javed Ali and offered them financial assistance of Rs 1 crore. “Dr Javed Ali, 42, had contracted the infection in June while performing his duties in a coronavirus facility. Without caring for his own life, he kept helping others. The people of Delhi salute his service,” Kejriwal said. Delhi government has been providing one-time assistance of Rs 1 crore to the families of doctors, nurses, police personnel, para-medical staff, sanitation staff, security staff, including those from private sector, who got infected and succumb to Covid-19 while deployed on Covid duty. Kejriwal said the government would do whatever it could to support the family. “Today I met his family and handed over financial assistance of Rs 1 crore. This money cannot compensate for the value of life, but will at least bring some relief. It is a message that we care for our Corona Warrior s, and every citizen of Delhi stands with them,” he added. The process of financial assistance begins with the department or agency of the deceased submitting the case with recommendation, report of death audit committee and hospital in charge to Delhi government’s revenue department. In many cases, the reports were sent without necessary documents. All the departments have now been instructed to send these reports with account and Aadhaar details of the parents and the spouse of the deceased. Kejriwal said the control of spread of Covid-19 had been possible only due to the relentless work of the Corona Warrior s. “The compensation amount is giving confidence them that the government is with them, and will look after their family. The medical staff, doctors, nurses and sanitation staff are working hard, and we are confident that in the future the situation will improve further,” he said. The CM also tweeted, “In the corona period, our doctors are treating patients day and night without caring for their lives. One such Corona Warrior Dr Javed Ali ji had recently succumbed to death due to COVID (sic).” Dr Javed Ali, a National Health Mission doctor, had been on the front line since March. He had tested Covid-positive on June 24 and was on ventilator for the past 10 days and died on July 22. He is survived by his wife and two children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/kejriwal-gives-rs-1cr-aid-to-kin-of-covid-warrior/articleshow/77271517.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 31, 2020||Meerut||Controversial encounter cop of UP’s Meerut attached to police training school||Meerut: A DSP-rank police officer, who had earned the sobriquet of “encounter cop” and was facing at least three departmental probes, has been transferred to a police training school in Jalaun from his current posting as circle officer (CO) of Meerut’s Sardhana town. DSP Jitendra Sargam’s transfer fax came from Lucknow, a senior police officer confirmed. When contacted, additional director general of police (Meerut zone) Rajeev Sabharwal said, “I have ordered probes into 2-3 matters in which he (DSP Sargam) is involved. The inquiry is being conducted by the superintendent of police (rural) Ghaziabad.”Sargam has been at the helm of several controversial encounters. Among them was the encounter death of a youth, Sachin Gurjar, in 2017 in Noida during an alleged gun battle with a police team led by Sargam. He is facing a probe for it.Sargam’s name had also surfaced in another alleged controversial encounter in which a local youth, Seeman Khan, 22, who was going to distribute invitation cards for his sister’s wedding, was shot at three times by a police team. It left Khan paralyzed from the waist down. Meerut IG Alok Singh had ordered a probe by SP (rural area) Ghaziabad and findings of it are still awaited. According to sources, the recent trigger for DSP Sargam’s transfer could be several local media reports alleging that he was building a kabaddi academy in neighbouring Baghpat-- his native district-- worth over Rs 1crore. And also that his wife was planning to contest upcoming district panchayat polls and several posters announcing this had cropped up in the area.On his part, DSP Sargam said that the academy was being crowd-funded. “I have been a national kabaddi player from Baghpat and several players like me in the region have come together to build the kabaddi academy. We have crowd-funded the expenses in the construction and reports of Rs 1crore being spent on it is exaggerated,” the officer said.On his wife contesting the elections, Sargam said, “It is my wife’s democratic right. There is nothing wrong about it. Some posters had come up and a controversy is being made out of it at the behest of some rivals.”When contacted, inspector general of Meerut range, Praveen Tripathi, said, “The administration has several ways to take feedback. He was not facing any probe in Meerut.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/controversial-encounter-cop-of-ups-meerut-attached-to-police-training-school/articleshow/77268635.cms||Piyush Rai
July 31, 2020||Agra||Two youths drown in pond in Kasganj district||Two youths, identified as Nizam Khan (20) and Zameer Khan (21), drowned while swimming in a pond in Bhargain village under Patilyali police limit in Kasganj district. As it was raining heavily, said police, the youths went for swimming in the pond for a fun and drowned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/two-youths-drown-in-pond-in-kasganj-district/articleshow/77271495.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana positive cases top 60k, death toll crosses 500||Hyderabad: After several days of dip in coronavirus numbers, Telangana on Thursday recorded 1,811 new cases and 13 deaths. The total cases reported in the state are 60,717 now while the toll has gone up to 505. Authorities said the number of active cases in the state shot up to 15,640 on Thursday. Some 10,155 patients are in home or institutional quarantine, while the remaining are under treatment at various government and private hospitals. Even as cases continue to rise and the majority of patients are in home quarantine, Suryapet district reported zero available beds in the government hospital on Thursday while Nagarkurnool had just eight beds available . Sample testing in the state continued to rise with 18,263 people tested for Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the total number of people tested for the virus to 4.16 lakh so far. “By Monday, we will be touching 23,000 mark. We have already stocked up all government facilities including rural primary health centres (PHC) with testing kits, and over 4 lakh additional kits have been ordered to ramp up testing,” said an official from the state health department. While the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area recorded 521 new cases, Rangareddy recorded 289 cases on Thursday, which is the single-day highest so far for the district. Medchal-Malkajgiri with 151 and Warangal (urban) with 102 cases recorded the third and fourth highest cases respectively. For the second day in a row, every district recorded new cases with the least being recorded in Asifabad which saw six cases on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-positive-cases-top-60k-death-toll-crosses-500/articleshow/77271472.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Nagpur||RPF seize 42 kg marijuana||NAGPUR: Railway Protection Force (RPF) seized over 42kg of marijuana, worth more than Rs4 lakhs on Thursday. The consignment was found in 20 sacks on platform number 2 towards Itarsi end. RPF team under senior inspector RR James, under supervision of senior divisional security commissioner Ashutosh Pandey, had spotted the sacks lying unattended on platform number 2. It’s learnt that the consignment had come in a special train running between Vishakhapatnam and New Delhi. The consignment was later handed over to the Government railway police (GRP).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rpf-seize-42-kg-marijuana/articleshow/77271461.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Trichy||Textile cluster pushes Covid cases up in Karur||Trichy: Covid-19 cases in Karur have been gradually going up over the last 10 days. The district had one of the lowest Covid-19 cases in the state, but for the last two days, the district has been reporting more than 40 cases per day. This is the highest single-day spike in the district so far as. District medical staff said that a cluster has emerged at a textile unit in Karur town. Besides this, cases are emerging from some pockets in the town in the last few days. Seven employees of a private textile unit tested positive for Covid-19 and we are expecting some more positive cases, said a senior district public health staff. Saying that it is a working place cluster, the staff said such clusters are more challenging as people come from various places to work. Every staff and his family members in various parts of the district will have to be traced and tested. While contact tracing is on, places such as Gandhigram, Vengamedu, Andalkoil, Aravakurichi are few places in the district where positive cases are frequently emerging over the last few days. There are many people coming in for work from neighbouring districts, which is a major concern, said a medical staff adding that textile units are operational, and cases will increase in the next few days. Officials said that 50 medical camps are organised on daily basis and testing has been increased from 300 to 400 in the last few days. This is also a reason for increasing cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/textile-cluster-pushes-covid-cases-up-in-karur/articleshow/77272444.cms||Sampath Kumar
July 31, 2020||Nashik||300 asymptomatic patients undergoing treatment at homes||Nashik: As many as 300 asymptomatic patients, of the total 1,527 active Covid-19 patients in Nashik city, are undergoing treatment in their houses as per the guidelines.According to the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), asymptomatic patients may take treatment at their homes if they have adequate facilities.The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has allowed treatment at home to asymptomatic patients to reduce the pressure on hospitals.“We are constantly in touch with asymptomatic patients taking treatment at home. We call them twice a day and take their health details. We also immediately send ambulances if required,” said NMC officials. Around 85% of the total Covid-19 patients are asymptomatic, but the 15% who are symptomatic, have to be admitted in the hospital.The officials said, “The asymptomatic patients from slum areas are undergoing treatment in NMC hospitals.”The first patient was recorded on April 6, and currently, the city has 8,041 Covid cases with 256 deaths. Of which 6, 258 have recovered. The recovery rate has improved from 43% on June 30 to 77.83% so far.“The main focus now is on tracing the high-risk contacts of the Covid patients and conducting their tests for early detection” said the officials. “Moreover, the surveys of residents in the containment areas are also being conducted regularly with the help of over 400 teams of health officials. These are the measures, we are taking to break the chain of Covid spread in the city,” added the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/300-asymptomatic-patients-undergoing-treatment-at-homes/articleshow/77247317.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 31, 2020||Trichy||Farmers ‘defy’ mono-cropping, grow groundnut in Thiruverumbur||Trichy: Farmers from a village in Thiruverumbur block in Trichy district have cultivated groundnuts in around 10 acres of their land, which was considered only fit for mono-cropping with paddy. As groundnut farming has the potential to generate income irrespective of weather conditions, we have cultivated the crop to overcome water shortage for the first time on a trial basis, farmers said. Additional director of agriculture, P Sankaralingam, along with district-level officials visited the field recently and encouraged the farmers. While farmers from Cauvery delta in Trichy district usually cultivate rice fallow- blackgram after harvesting samba paddy every year, for a change around 10 farmers from Vazhavanthankottai in Thiruverumbur block sowed 110-day groundnut crop in around 10 acres during the third week of April on being encouraged by agriculture officials, K Swaminathan, who raised the crop in his one-and-a-half-acre land said. “Usually, we spend around Rs 12,000 for black gram per acre and the profit would be around Rs 10,000. In the case of groundnut, the expenses could come up to Rs 20,000. We can get a maximum of Rs 40,000 as revenue,” Swaminathan added. This apart, there were numerous other benefits the farmers can enjoy, he added. “The dry plant collected after harvesting groundnut can be used as fodder for our cattle. Moreover, the soil becomes loose, which would be helpful for the next crop to grow well,” he added. As the demand for water for irrigation is high, the agriculture department is helping farmers adopt micro irrigation methods to use irrigation water judiciously, assistant director of agriculture, S Esther Premakumari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-defy-mono-cropping-grow-groundnut-in-thiruverumbur/articleshow/77272440.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
July 31, 2020||Agra||Three from Bareilly among four arrested by Farrukhabad cops with opium worth Rs 1 crore||Farrukhabad police on Thursday arrested four men who were allegedly peddling 10 kg opium — worth Rs 1 crore — in the district. Police identified the accused as Bhanu Pratap Singh, Tej Pal, Ratnesh and Mahipal. According to police, the gang was transporting opium in a mini truck from Ramgarh district in Jharkhand. “We are probing whom the drug was being supplied,” said Anil Kumar Mishra, SP, Farrukhabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/three-from-bareilly-among-four-arrested-by-farrukhabad-cops-with-opium-worth-rs-1-crore/articleshow/77271513.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Agra||Youth murdered at his house’s rooftopin Etah, body found 100 metres away||A 20-year-old youth was allegedly murdered at the rooftop of his house, but his body with his throat slit was found around 100 meters away from his house under Nayagoan police limits in Etah district. The victim was identified as Vasudev of Nagla Vishnu village, said police. Etah SP Sunil Kumar Singh said, “Prima facie the murder looks an act of revenge. Our team is probing the matter. An FIR has been registered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/youth-murdered-at-his-houses-rooftopin-etah-body-found-100-metres-away/articleshow/77271542.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Trichy||Pudukottai med college rises to occasion in handling deliveries||Trichy: When the lockdown started by March-end, private clinics in Pudukottai started reducing their services and the entire burden of treating emergency patients along with Covid cases fell on the shoulders of government hospitals. Subsequently, obstetricians of Pudukkottai government medical college hospital became the busiest after medical staff looking after Covid positive cases over the last few months.With the months after March witnessing a spike in non-Covid emergency cases, priority was given for pregnant women apart from Covid-19 positive cases. The hospital has so far treated 36 expectant mothers who were Covid-19 positive. Out of them, 14 were discharged successfully after delivery while 22 are under treatment. In the last 40 days, the hospital has performed 12 caesarean sections for Covid-positive women from Illuppur, Viralimalai, Pudukkottai, Vaithur and Sivaganga. They delivered eight baby boys and four baby girls. A senior doctor said that two women who underwent caesarean section in a private hospital were admitted here after they became Covid positive. They too were discharged with their children after testing negative. “We could ensure that all the attendants of pregnant women and babies were discharged with Covid-19 negative status after 10 days of delivery, which was a big challenge,” said dean A L Meenakshi Sundaram. While this includes some pregnancy cases with multiple health complications, she said the very few hospitals that opened up in the last few weeks didn’t take pregnant women for delivery and most cases were referred to government medical college hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pudukottai-med-college-rises-to-occasion-in-handling-deliveries/articleshow/77272457.cms||Sampath Kumar
July 31, 2020||Meerut||Cycle rider hits protruding iron rods, taken out after cutting them||Meerut: In a freak incident, two iron rods protruding from an under-construction house pierced through a bicycle rider’s stomach when he hit it accidently in Baghpat’s Ramala area. The accident took place on Wednesday late night and the rider, 15-year-old Kala, probably couldn’t notice the rods. The victim was admitted to a hospital in Baghpat in critical condition and was referred to a Meerut hospital later. The iron rods were cut with the help of a machine after which Kala was taken out. Ramesh Singh Siddhu, station house officer (SHO) of Ramala police station, said, “Machine was used to cut the iron rods and rescue the boy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/cycle-rider-hits-protruding-iron-rods-taken-out-after-cutting-them/articleshow/77268674.cms||Ishita Bhatia
July 31, 2020||Chennai||Rs 3,000/vial Remdesivir sold for Rs 12,000 in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Anti-viral drug Remdesivir, much in demand to treat Covid-19 infections, is being sold at more than three times its price in Tamil Nadu as unscrupulous agents resort to profiteering during the pandemic. A vial that costs between Rs 3,000 and Rs 5,000 plus GST is sold for Rs 12,500 to Rs 13,000 in the black market. Though government hospitals have adequate stocks of the drug, it’s in short supply in private hospitals. This is where ‘agents’ come in. Often doctors themselves give desperate patients the contact numbers of ‘agents’ who may own their own pharmaceutical distribution agency or could be working for hospitals or pharmaceutical firms. The initial contact is over messaging apps. A Covid-19 patient in Trichy paid an agent Rs 75,000 for six vials after a private hospital couldn’t source the drug. C N Raja, president of the Indian Medical Association (Tamil Nadu), who spoke to the agent, has now complained to health department officials and also informed the TN drugs control department. K Sivabalan, director of TN drugs control department, said there is no way this drug can be sold directly to patients. “The drug has not reached the retail market. It is only available with government or private hospitals. This is totally false as the stock itself is limited. We have a strong force and we haven’t received a single complaint. In TN it is not available in the black market. However, we will take action based on specific instances,” he told TOI. When TOI called up the ‘agent’ in Madurai, he said he could courier Remdesivir or Tocilizumab immediately to any part of the country and one can order any quantity. He messaged his name, address of his agency, and photos of the drugs available. An ‘agent’ in Coimbatore, who says he’s an employee of a private hospital, is selling it at Rs 13,000 a vial. Asked how they got Remdesivir when there was a huge shortage everywhere, the agents said they procured it from the manufacturer directly and because there was a huge demand they were selling it at high rates. Private hospitals are the biggest customers, they said. C N Raja said “Even doctors are unable to procure it but these agents are getting it. A doctor in Madurai informed me that the drugs Remdesivir and Tocilizumab are easily available in the black market so I decided to check and called an agent. He told me if I sent him the Covid positive test report and Aadhaar copy of the patient, he would courier the drugs immediately. The government should put an end to black market sales immediately and take measures to make the drug available at MRP,” he said. An agent told TOI that he ran a pharmacy for over ten years and he procured the drug from the manufacturer. “Even hospitals are purchasing from me only. So you can trust the drug,” he said. The agent in Coimbatore said he got it from a private hospital there. P Kamalesh, a resident of Trichy, who was looking for the drug for his relative said the hospitals do not provide any separate bills for drugs. “Initially the hospital asked us to buy the drug on our own. When we couldn’t, the hospital got it. We were asked to pay a total of 1.40 lakh for three days as expenses.” Health secretary, J Radhakrishnan said based on complaints, he would take action. “There is a shortage of the drug but the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation purchased very early and we have a good stock. If the private hospitals want, we could make some arrangement so that they can procure from us on case-to-case basis,” he said. The government charges Rs3,000 plus GST for a vial of Remdesivir. Dr P Umanath, managing director of TNMSC, said there are just a few companies that produce the drugs Remdesivir and Tocilizumab -- Hetero, Cipla, Mylan, Cadila, Jubilant drugs and Dr Reddy’s Labs. “Hetero has started first. We have procured 40,000 vials from them. Others have just begun the supply. We help out private hospitals on request for critically ill patients with them but we cannot supply to all private hospitals, considering our stocks being needed for government hospitals. So far, 160 vials of both these drugs were provided to private hospitals at a cost of Rs 20,832 for a pack of six vials. We will come up with some options to make these drugs available for private hospitals,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rs-3000/vial-remdesivir-sold-for-rs-12000-in-tn/articleshow/77271533.cms||Komal Gautham
July 31, 2020||Lucknow||Nagara style of architecture for Ayodhya’s Ram temple||LUCKNOW: The grand Ram Mandir, coming up at the Ram Janmabhoomi in Ayodhya, will now have five domed ‘mandaps’ and one ‘shikhar’, making the temple a whopping 161 feet high. The temple, which will take around three to three-and-a-half-year to be ready as per project’s architects, would have three storeys and it would be based on Vastushastra. Until now, the temple, the design of which was worked upon since 1990, had two storeys, three ‘mandaps’ and a ‘shikhar’, giving it a height of 141 feet. Talking to TOI from Ahmedabad, architect Ashish Sompura, son of chief architect of the project Chandrakantbhai Sompura, said, “The original design had three ‘mandaps’ – the ‘garbhgriha’ or the sanctum sanctorum, ‘kudu mandap’ and ‘nritya mandap’. But the new design has the addition of ‘rang mandap’ which will be towards the front of the temple and a ‘kirtan mandap’ and a ‘prathana mandap’ on both the sides.” Ram temple in Ayodhya: Complete coverageSince the height of the temple and its floors have been increased, the temple has to be extended on sides to balance the design aesthetically, Ashish said. Thus, the columns, which in the original design were 212, have now been increased to 360. “In the older times, ‘nritya’ and ‘rang mandaps’ were used for dance by ‘devdasis’. But now the same space would be used by people to have ‘darshan’ of Bhagwan Ram from three sides,” he added. Read Also‘Crowdfunding will help us meet additional cost’The bhoomi pujan of Ram temple in Ayodhya will also herald a public connect campaign for crowdfunding. General secretary of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, Champat Rai, tells Shailvee Sharda that crowdfunding will be a major exercise to fund the temple construction. Excerpts...Chief architect of the temple Chandrakantbhai Sompura, whose grandfather Prabhakarji Sompura, had designed Somnath temples, said that the temple design is based on ‘Vastu shastra’. “My grandfather had written several books on Vastu kalanidhi and for generations we have been using the art in our designs,” said the 77-year-old architect. “The Nagara style Ram Mandir is designed keeping specifications of Shilpa Shastra in mind. All calculations are very particular. For example, no dimension can be bigger than the ‘garbhagriha,’ what side should the ‘garbhagriha’ face, etc,” explained Ashish. Read AlsoRam temple: CPM slams Modi govt for August 5 dateCPM has slammed the Modi government for “deliberately” choosing August 5 as the date for bhoomi pujan for the Ram temple since it coincides with the one year anniversary of the “demolition” of Jammu and Kashmir.He added, “It will take at least three-and-a-half-year for the construction to be completed. Fifty per cent of work based on the original design – 106 columns, walls of the sanctum sanctorum and marble ‘chaukath’ – had been done. But the design is bigger than this now.” Watch Ayodhya’s Ram temple to be built in Nagara style of architecture||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nagara-style-of-architecture-for-ayodhyas-ram-temple/articleshow/77272513.cms||Yusra Husain
July 31, 2020||Meerut||TOI Impact: Allahabad HC quotes TOI story on abuse of NE kids by ‘godman’, seeks report||Muzaffarnagar: How did an ashram run for years without registration, exploiting children and flying under the radar all this while? Citing a report in TOI on July 12, the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court has asked the UP government for a report on the investigation and action taken on the alleged abuse of children at an ashram at Shukratal, 30 km from Muzaffarnagar, by a godman and his assistant over 12 years.“Kindly take the reference of the news article published in Times of India on 12.07.2020 … regarding drugging and sexual assault of minor boys by Maharaj of ashram at Shukratal, Muzaffarnagar … As directed by Hon’ble Chairman, HCJJC (High Court Juvenile Justice Committee), it is requested (that you) submit a report … at the earliest,” the registrar of the HCJJC wrote to the principal secretary, women and child development on Tuesday. An official in the administration, who did not want to be named, said the report is being prepared.The sordid details of how children sent to the shelter by unsuspecting parents, who thought their kids were getting good education, were being exploited came out when an older inmate turned whistleblower. Ten children at the ashram were being sexually harassed by the manager, he tipped off Childline in a phone call. The ashram was raided, the manager Bhakti Bhushan Govind and his associate Mohan Das arrested. They are now in jail. The children, all from Tripura and Mizoram, are still in Muzaffarnagar, living in a shelter under the supervision of the Child Welfare Committee. “They are well. They will be sent home after the court trial,” Kamlesh Verma, district president of the panel, said. The National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights had on July 16 asked authorities in Uttar Pradesh, Mizoram and Tripura to rehabilitate the 10 children — all between the ages of seven and 18.Govind would make the children drink alcohol, saying it was “coronavirus medicine”, lie naked beside them and sexually assault them, the children had told the Child Welfare Committee in their statements, which TOI had accessed. If they refused, some of them said, they would be beaten up. Medical examination of the children confirmed four of them had been sodomised. The ashram in the pilgrimage town is a grand two-storeyed building. Locals had told TOI that the children would often be engaged as labour in its construction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/toi-impact-allahabad-hc-quotes-toi-story-on-abuse-of-ne-kids-by-godman-seeks-report/articleshow/77268692.cms||Mohd Dilshad
July 31, 2020||Coimbatore||33 new cases take Nilgiris count to 768||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris recorded 33 new Covid-19 cases, 15 of them women, on Thursday, taking the district’s tally to 768. At least 18 of the 33 new cases are tertiary contacts of patients from the T.Oranally wedding function and another eight are contacts of earlier positive cases with travel history. Two cases are linked to a funeral at Thambatty village. There were also imported cases. Four of them had come to the Nilgiris either on official duty or on personal purposes. While they were tested positive from the district, they would be cross-notified to their home districts, said health officials. A 51-year-old driver with the Defence Service Staff College at Wellington is also among the new cases. He tested positive for the virus after returning from Chennai. According to collector J Innocent Divya, at least 34,000 people have been screened for Covid-19 in the district so far. On Thursday, Divya inspected the containment zones in Nanjanadu and Kuruthukuli villages. Meanwhile, 24 patients were discharged from the facilities they were undergoing treatment. So far, 605 patients have recovered in the Nilgiris, which currently has 161 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/33-new-cases-take-nilgiris-count-to-768/articleshow/77271549.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Woman swept away for 30km by river, saved||KOTTAYAM: A 68-year-old woman who was carried away in a strong water current in Manimala river was rescued by people residing on the banks of the river in Thiruvalla on Thursday. Omana Surendran is a resident of Manimala and her house is close to the river. Police from both Manimala and Thiruvalla stations are clueless as to how she landed in the river and from where. If she fell into the river at Manimala, then she was carried away for over 30km, which is miraculous. The river was swollen and there was strong current due to heavy rains. According to Thiruvalla CI, the woman is under treatment in the medical college hospital here. She was initially moved to taluk hospital in Thiruvalla. After regaining consciousness she gave her son’s phone number to the doctor. After he arrived, Surendran was shifted to MCH. According to her son Rajesh, the family, including his wife, children and mother, had dinner at 9pm on Wednesday. When he woke up at 6:45am on Thursday, the mother was missing. A complaint was filed at Manimala police station. Police are hoping that she will soon respond and explain the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/woman-swept-away-for-30km-by-river-saved/articleshow/77270028.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
July 31, 2020||Meerut||5 FSDA teams to keep a check on purity of sweets ahead of Rakhi, Eid in Meerut||MEERUT: Food Safety and Drugs Authority (FSDA) here will deploy five teams to keep a tab on sale of adulterated sweets in the district ahead of Rakshabandhan and Eid. At least 10 samples of suspected food items, mostly made of milk and milk products, have been taken from various eateries and sweet shops in Meerut for testing. “In the backdrop of the upcoming festivals of Rakshabandhan and Eid, the FSDA department has formed three teams for conducting inspections in tehsils and two in Nagar Nigam zones. All the teams have been asked to conduct raids on sweet shops and identify suspected food items. While samples of suspected items will be taken for testing, some items will be destroyed on the spot if found being prepared in unhygienic conditions,” said Archana Dheeran, designated officer, FSDA. Till Thursday, seven samples from different shops in the city had been taken and sent for testing. “The seven samples were collected from various eateries in Bhopal Vihar, Jagriti Vihar, Rohta and others. All the samples have been sent to the laboratory in Lucknow to ensure that no tampering occurs,” said Dheeran. Authorities said city residents can inform the department about sale of any suspected adulterated food item at the shops, and action will be taken thereafter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/5-fsda-teams-to-keep-a-check-on-purity-of-sweets-ahead-of-rakhi-eid-in-meerut/articleshow/77268712.cms||Ishita Bhatia
July 31, 2020||Nagpur||State CID nabs Samata bank’s fraud case accused||NAGPUR: State criminal investigation department (CID) on July 27 arrested Kishore Thakre for his alleged involvement in the Rs145 crore fraud in Samata Co-operative Bank in which 60 persons, including chairman DS Chimurkar and his director son Milind, have been named as accused. Thakre was absconding since 2007 when the offence was registered at Sitabuldi police station. It’s learnt that Thakre had colluded with one Pramod Manmode, also an accused in the case, to create two fake companies to dupe the bank to the tune of Rs1.60 crore. Thakre had placed two fake projects on two plots at Pendhri on Amravati road to procure loans in connivance with Chief Executive Officer P B Choudhary, Chief accounts officer Rohin Kulkarni and branch manager Sanjay Deshpande who were all made accused in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-cid-nabs-samata-banks-fraud-case-accused/articleshow/77271540.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris to contest bid to issue ryotwari patta for 1,705 acres to pvt tea estate||Udhagamandalam: The district administration is all set to contest the move to issue ryotwari patta for 1,705.9 acres falling under five survey numbers in Gudalur village in the Nilgiris to Silver Cloud Estate. The Janmam Estates Abolition Tribunal/district judge, P Vadamalai, had on June 5 directed the Gudalur tahsildar and the authorities concerned to issue ryotwari patta to the estate under Section 8 of the Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into ryotwari) Act, 1969. They were asked to issue ryotwari patta to Silver Cloud Estate for lands falling under old survey numbers 13, 179, 187, 188 and 192 in Gudalur village within two months from the date of the order. The tribunal’s direction is, however, against the order passed by the settlement officer/district revenue officer on October 12, 2017, dismissing an appeal by the estate for ryotwari patta. Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya said, “An appeal in this connection will be made before the Special Appellate Tribunal soon.” Earlier, Silver Cloud Estate had sought ryotwari patta for 1,766.9 acres, of which 60.9 acres was declared as ‘forest’ under Section 53 of the Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into ryotwari) Act, 1969, by the district revenue/settlement officer, Janmam lands, Gudalur, in 2011. In 1995, the Supreme Court had in an order said “no patta with regard to any forest land in the Janmam land of Gudalur and Pandalur village shall be granted nor any encroachment be regularized.” According to the order of the tribunal, ‘the estate has proved its claim for ryotwari patta for 1,705.9 acres. It also said the settlement officer had in the past rejected the claim without appreciating the contentions put forth by the estate and erroneously come to the conclusion on the ground that the claim was barred by limitation. The original janmies had leased out 41,768 acres of land for raising plantations. Till the time of Janmam abolition in 1969, the lessees are said to have converted around 15,000 acres of rich rain forests into plantations. The case involves a large number of individuals and companies, including Birla Group that enjoys more than 20,000 acres of land, demanding ryotwari patta, claiming the land was being cultivated by their predecessors and they were in continuous possession of the same for long. A case in this regard is still pending with the Supreme Court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-to-contest-bid-to-issue-ryotwari-patta-for-1705-acres-to-pvt-tea-estate/articleshow/77271601.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Lucknow||Water, soil for Ram temple from across Bharat showcases unity: VHP||LUCKNOW: Vishwa Hindu Parishad general secretary Milind Parande on Thursday said that the water and soil samples being carried to Ayodhya for the bhoomi pujan of Ram temple from thousands of holy rivers and pilgrimage centres across the country showcase the togetherness of whole of ‘Bharat’. “Holy water and soil samples are being transported from Nagpur—the birthplace of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, Kashi—the birthplace of Sant Ravidas, Maharshi Valmiki Ashram at Sitamarhi in Bihar, Kachargad in Vidarbha (Maharashtra), Ramrekhadham of Jharkhand, Tantya Bheel’s holy land in Madhya Pradesh, Shri Harmandir Sahib (Golden Temple) of Amritsar, Mhow—the birthplace of Bhim Rao Ambedkar, Jain Lal Mandir in Delhi and Valmiki Temple in Delhi, where Mahatma Gandhi lived for 72 days. These are only a few examples,” Parande said. The occasion motivates people to always uphold and celebrate cultural nationalism, integral humanism, national unity and territorial integrity of the country, he said. Parande said that the foundation stone of Shri Ramjanmabhoomi was laid in 1989 itself in the presence of many revered saints and Scheduled Caste leaders like Kameshwar Chaupal, who is now a valued trustee of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerthakshetra Trust. He said that the emancipation of Ahalya by lord Ram, high esteem shown to Shabari Mata and camaraderie with Nishadraj are outstanding illustrations of social harmony in the earlier times. The VHP leader called upon all ‘Ram bhakts’ to sit together, as far as possible, from 10.30am on August 5 in their respective homes, establishments, monasteries, ashrams or temples in worship and offer “bhajan, keertan, smaran, flowers and aarti” to their respective adored deities/divinities and distribute prasad among people. He also appealed to followers of Ram to make all possible arrangements to show live the Ayodhya programme to society. He also asked people to decorate houses, neighbourhoods, villages, markets, monasteries, gurdwaras, ashrams, and light lamps in the evening. Parande said Ram bhakts should donate for the temple as much as possible, while ensuring that all means of publicity and promotion are used to allow this grand programme to reach more and more people of society. “In all these schemes and programmes, all care should be taken to wear face masks, sanitize hands and maintain social distancing to protect one and all from the pandemic,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vhp-water-soil-for-temple-from-across-bharat-showcases-unity/articleshow/77272518.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Boy, 3, dead, girl, 12, missing as mom throws them into canal||THANJAVUR: A 38-year-old woman threw her two children, including a three-year-old boy, into the Grand Anaicut canal and jumped into it too, following a domestic scuffle with her husband in Thanjavur on Thursday morning. However, locals rescued the woman and after searching for several hours, a team from fire and rescue services retrieved the body of the boy, while the search is on to rescue the girl. According to police, Suresh, 40, a resident of Seppanavari near Thanjavur, who was a labourer and his wife S Senthamizhselvi, 38, had an altercation over domestic issues frequently. On Wednesday night, they had another altercation. However, following this Suresh and their two children S Swetha, 12 and S Gokul Chezhiyan, 3, had gone to bed, Meanwhile, Senthamizhselvi left the house at around 5 am on Thursday along with her two children. She then reached a bridge across the Grand Anaicut canal and threw her children into the water and then she jumped off the bridge too. On seeing this, passersby rushed to the spot rescued Senthamizhselvi. They informed the fire and rescue services department in Thanjavur. The rescue team retrieved the body of the Gokul Chezhiyan floating on the water near Kandithampattu area. The body was sent to the government hospital for postmortem. The search is on to trace the girl, police said. Thanjavur West police registered a case and conducting the inquiry with the couple, police sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/boy-3-dead-girl-12-missing-as-mom-throws-them-into-canal/articleshow/77272487.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu extends lockdown till August 31, 75% staff allowed in private offices||CHENNAI: As cases surge across the districts in Tamil Nadu, the state government on Thursday announced extension of the lockdown till August 31. Though the ban on public and private bus transport services, malls, gymnasiums and cinema halls will continue, all private offices and establishments have been allowed to function with 75% workforce. Intense lockdown will continue to be enforced on all Sundays in August across the state. The state sought to take a measured approach in relaxing the curbs after collectors were keen on continuing the intense lockdown. According to sources, city corporation officials, too, batted for extending the lockdown to help bring the case count below 1,000. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said, “The decision to continue the current lockdown is based on the views expressed by district collectors and public health expert besides consultations with senior ministers.” The state had considered resumption of bus services but district collectors raised concerns about the “possible surge” during the meeting with the chief minister on Wednesday. Virudhunagar collector R Kannan had cited the resumption of bus services as reason for the spurt in cases in his district. On Thursday, health experts appreciated the government’s virus containment strategy and advised a more cautious approach, sources said. The districts, excluding Chennai, recorded 45,177 active cases until Thursday. “There is no backlog of samples for testing beyond 48 hours. It is felt there will be a steady decline in the number of cases in other parts of the state from now on. If the trend stabilises and the cases go down further, we will consider resuming bus services and opening hotels. Currently, the administration has proven that it can manage 7,000 cases a day, but beyond that number, it will be a strain on the health infrastructure,” said a senior government officer. There will be no relaxation in containment zones. Industrial and commercial establishments are asked to encourage employees to work from home and adhere to standard operating procedures. Status quo will be maintained for rail and air transport and e-passes from district collectors/Greater Chennai Corporation commissioner for inter-district and inter-state movement. Independence Day will be celebrated in the state, adhering to social distancing norms and wearing of masks. The chief minister also announced activities that will continue to remain prohibited until further orders. “Based on the intensity of the virus spread, relaxations will be permitted in a phased manner,” the CM said. Shopping malls, schools, colleges, training and coaching institutions are not permitted. The other prohibited activities include, international air travel of passengers, except permitted by the Union government, metro rail and suburban trains, cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars and auditoriums, assembly halls, beaches, zoological parks, museums and similar places. TASMAC shops It is doubtful that nearly 650 Tasmac liquor shops in Chennai and its suburbs will reopen in August, sources in the state-owned marketing corporation said on Thursday.   Top sources with Tasmac said  they had not received any orders yet on opening the closed liquor outlets. Another source said that liquor shops might remain closed in and around Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-extends-lockdown-till-aug-31-75-staff-allowed-in-pvt-offices/articleshow/77271607.cms||Julie Mariappan
July 31, 2020||Hubballi||Cybercriminals on overdrive during pandemic||Hubballi: Cybercriminals are on an overdrive to cash in on opportunities during the pandemic, which has rendered several jobless and pushed many into financial crisis. Capitalising on the situation, they are offering loans online and cheating unsuspecting netizens. Hubballi-Dharwad cyberpolice said that over the last couple of weeks, they have observed an increase in cases involving phishing, wherein fraudsters have targeted loan-seekers. But only one case is registered with them, while the others have gone unreported. According to a cybercrime police, it is people who are desperate for money are those falling prey to such tricks, and majority of them have lost money on websites offering instant loans. However, most of them don’t file a case as the lost money is minimal. Rajesh Singh (name changed), a city-based private company employee, recently lost Rs 5,000 to cybercriminals. Rajesh said he wanted some money for expenses towards family as he got a paycut recently. While browsing websites, he found an advertisement by an MNC offering loans. He applied for Rs 2 lakh loan by sending details of Aadhar and PAN card as sought in the ad. Later, he got a message that said his loan has been approved, “but he needed to pay Rs 6,000 as a processing fee”. Soon after paying the “processing fee”, he got another message asking for Rs 6,000 more, “towards documentation and other charges”. Suspecting something amiss, Rajesh dialled the number provided by the company, but to no avail — all his calls went unanswered. However, he did not register a case. In another case, a resident of Gadag lost his money in the same manner. Going by an advertisement offering quick loans, he applied for the same, but ended up losing Rs 5,000. DCP R B Basaragi said that people, being careful, should not fall prey to lucrative advertisements. “They should see such ads suspiciously. We have been creating awareness on all kinds of cyber frauds. But unfortunately, people are still falling prey to these traps,” he rued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cybercriminals-on-overdrive-during-pandemic/articleshow/77269419.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
July 31, 2020||Meerut||UP: Ghaziabad GRP constable robbed of cash, bike and uniform in Bulandshahr||MEERUT: Three men allegedly held a railway police constable at gunpoint and robbed him of cash, valuables and his motorcycle as well as his uniform. The incident occurred barely 100 metres away from a police picket near Sikandrabad area of Bulandshahr. Sanjeev Kumar, 30, posted as constable in Government Railway Police, Ghaziabad, was on his way to work early on Wednesday when he was waylaid, robbed and left stranded in his undergarments. According to Bulandshahr SSP Santosh Kumar Singh, "The constable lost Rs 700 cash, motorcycle and his uniform. I have constituted several teams to trace the culprits.” Kumar said, “My duty shift was recently changed to early hours. It was still dark when three of them threw a lathi at my bike that forced me to stop. They come right in front of me carrying country-made weapons. I was stripped of Rs 700, motorcycle and my uniform. Since, the picket was just 100 metres away, I reported the matter there.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/gzb-grp-constable-robbed-of-cash-bike-and-uniform-in-bshahr/articleshow/77268760.cms||Sandeep Rai
July 31, 2020||Delhi||Sealed zones to be ‘freed’ after 14 days in Delhi||NEW DELHI: In a major relief to people living in the 694 sealed zones in the capital, the Union health ministry reduced the containment period to 14 days after the discharge of the last confirmed positive case instead of the current 28. Taking cognisance of problems faced by residents due to prolonged period of delineation of containment zones, the ministry suggested that states may de-notify containment zones two weeks after the discharge of the last confirmed case. It, however, added that this could be done only with continued surveillance for symptomatic patients and rigorous testing in buffer zones. This decision comes just days after state health minister Satyendar Jain urged the Centre to relax norms regarding containment zones and bring down the minimum cooling off period to a fortnight. Many locations in the city, like Jahangirpuri and GTB Enclave, have remained sealed for three months at a stretch. The serological survey in the capital, Jain said, had revealed that nearly every fourth Delhiite had developed antibodies to the novel coronavirus, with the number expected to go up to 40% in the next sero survey in August. The state health minister had said it was about time for the Centre to relax its policy for containment zones, keeping in mind the different conditions in different areas. “A review of the present policy is needed so that people don’t face unnecessary hassles and there should be different rules according to local needs and requirements, instead of a uniform policy,” Jain said. The Union health ministry’s order, issued on Wednesday, also noted that such continuing outbreaks reflect “less than satisfactory active surveillance, contact tracing, testing and inadequate adherence to home isolation guidelines, asking states to strengthen surveillance and increase testing manifolds in such containment zones.” To reduce inconveniences to residents, the ministry suggested that local authorities may scale down surveillance if no lab confirmed Covid-9 case is reported from sealed zone for at least 14 days after the last confirmed case has been isolated and all its contacts have been followed up. District officials, who are responsible for managing containment zones, said that people get restless after being restricted in a sealed zone for a long time. “Though largely people comply with the norms and understand the need for restrictions, there are some who turn hostile. Many say their offices have reopened and they will lose their jobs if they are not allowed to get out of the zone,” a district official said. “This is why many containment zones have been re-demarcated in many districts recently. Big areas are divided into smaller blocks. This results in movement of fewer people getting restricted and there are also fewer issues of people breaking rules in smaller containment zones,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sealed-zones-to-be-freed-after-14-days/articleshow/77271617.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 31, 2020||Lucknow||PPE, ‘haldi-doodh’ new normal for cinegoers||LUCKNOW: Apart from your favourite popcorn and soft drinks, PPE kits and immunity boosters like ‘ajwain-saunf chai’, ‘haldi-doodh’, soups, lattes, and juices will be on sale in multiplexes when the Centre allows movie screenings across the country. Economical tickets, alternate seating, sanitization drills, paperless tickets, zero frisking, one-hour gap between shows, face shields and thermal scans will be the new normal. With producers being forced to release some big budget movies on streaming apps, the shutdown has cost Bollywood and multiplexes crores of rupees. According to an industry source, producers of 15 to 20 movies featuring leading actors are awaiting government’s go-ahead to announce release dates. Some big ticket movies awaiting release are ‘Sooryavanshi’, ‘83’, ‘Coolie No.1’, ‘Radhe’, ‘Jayeshbhai Jordaar’, ‘Prithviraj’, ‘Laal Singh Chaddha’ and ‘Brahmastra’. To pass the litmus test, multiplexes have prepared stringent SOPs. Industry leaders INOX, PVR Pictures and Cinepolis India said the Multiplex Association of India has submitted to the government a set of protocols they would follow. “We visualized the cinema experience of viewers, identified critical touchpoints and prepared SOPs to ensure a safe environment for movie-goers. People will have to wear masks and undergo thermal checks. We will also have PPE kits on sale which will have a mask, gloves and sanitizers,” chief business development officer, INOX Leisure Ltd, Shirish Handa said. “Our team has developed an all-in-one SMS for online booking. This SMS comes with four links which will allow check in with QR code, show auditorium’s seat chart and its location, provide access to F&B menu to place orders and allow downloading of e-ticket.” “We have our back-end algorithm ready and there will be a seat’s gap between two bookings. Shows will be programmed in a way that there are no simultaneous entries, intermissions or exits,” he added. INOX will also put up immunity boosters like soups, lattes, teas and juices on sale, besides popular showtime snacks. PVR Cinemas has also planned staggered seating arrangement, queues following social distancing norms and e-transactions. Staff will undergo health screening daily and will wear PPE gear. Premises will undergo an EPA-approved ULV sanitization process, which helps in coating the surface with anti-microbial layers for up to 30 days. Gautam Dutta, CEO, PVR Cinemas, said, “We have partnered with Dettol to guarantee safer viewing.” Asked if people would be allowed to bring their own food items in theatres as they may be skeptical about eating out, Wave Cinemas director Yogesh Raizada, said: “Packaged food will be allowed given the present crisis. To win the audience back, ticket-pricing will be economical. There will be a minimum 30-minute gap between two shows.” Cinépolis is also taking extensive steps to ensure safety of patrons and staff. “Audis will be disinfected by EPA-approved chemical using ULV technology. Starting with box office, each touchpoint will be sanitized. Our staff will be equipped with protective gear. There will also be a POS shield to create a barrier between our patrons and staff. Our payments will be contactless. At the entrance, patrons will no longer be frisked. They will be thermally screened and their tickets will be refunded if temperature is found above normal,” CEO, Cinepolis India, Devang Sampat said. “After each show, row-wise exit will be facilitated. Our washrooms will be disinfected every two hours and cleaned throughout the day. Employees will share their Aarogya Setu status prior to entry,” Sampat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ppe-haldi-doodh-new-normal-for-cinegoers/articleshow/77272529.cms||Ankur Tewari
July 31, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Vulnerable groups in coastal regions being shifted to institutional quarantine||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With the Covid-19 caseload increasing, especially in clusters, the health department has decided to focus on vulnerable groups who are among the worst affected by the pandemic. “We have observed that in clusters in coastal regions, we need to provide extra care to senior citizens. They are the vulnerable groups and hence, they are being shifted to institutional quarantine,” said Dr Mohammed Asheel, executive director, Kerala Social Security Mission. Though the health department has been advocating reverse quarantine for senior citizens, it has been found that in coastal regions it is not advisable for them to stay at their homes. “In Poonthura and Pulluvila, we have shifted such people to institutional quarantine. We have patients availing palliative care also here who are also under institutional quarantine. The medical team available at the institutions are of a great help for them,” said Dr Asheel. In Thiruvananthapuram, the district administration has sought the support of religious leaders for reverse quarantining the vulnerable groups as the people are generally reluctant to stay away from their families and it was difficult for the health department to shift them to institutional quarantine. In Poonthura and Pulluvila , the district administration had to shift patients getting palliative care to institutional quarantine since the care providers were finding it difficult to reach these areas after the coastal regions were declared as containment zones. The local bodies have now been asked to identify the vulnerable groups in each household in the coastal villages and report to the health department. In addition, a toll-free helpline (1800 425 2147) exclusively for senior citizens have been set up by the social justice department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/vulnerable-groups-in-coastal-regions-being-shifted-to-iq/articleshow/77270070.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Corporation deputy commissioner tests +ve; district logs 303 cases||COIMBATORE: The deputy commissioner of city corporation has tested positive for the novel coronavirus, even as the district recorded 303 new cases and four more deaths on Thursday. The 31-year-old officer, S Maduranthagi, has been admitted to a private hospital in Neelambur. A native of Dindigul, she has been overseeing the city corporation’s Covid-19 relief works. The officer reportedly developed symptoms three days ago. Her first sample was tested negative. Doubting the accuracy of the test result, she submitted another sample for testing and this time results showed her positive. The officer reportedly had fever, throat pain and coughing. Hospital authorities said her condition was stable. City corporation officials are expected to trace her movements for the past three days and test her contacts, including her husband, who is a doctor at a private hospital, and her staff. The 303 new cases have, meanwhile, taken the district’s Covid-19 tally to 4,646, of which 1,729 are active cases. The four deaths have taken the toll to 50. The cases were again spread across the district. While Selvapuram and neighbouring areas such as Chokkampudur and Telungupalayam accounted for 17 cases, RS Puram recorded seven cases from West Ramalingam Road, Sullivan Street and Srinivasa Raghavan Road. In the city limits, Ganapathy and Muthusamy Servai Street off Palakkad Road, Sai Baba Colony, Vadavalli, NGGO Colony, Kavundampalayam and Peelamedu also saw fresh cases. A sub-inspector of police with Annur station and his wife were also among the new cases. In rural areas, the cases were spread across Mettupalayam, Sirumugai, Sulur, Kinathukidavu, Vellamadai and Valparai. Among the four deceased, three were in their 50s. They comprise a 55-year-old diabetic woman, who was admitted to the ESI Hospital on July 25 after she tested positive for the virus the previous day and died on Wednesday of severe pneumonia; another 51-year-old woman with diabetes and blood pressure, who was brought to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) on July 27 and died the same day; and a 58-year-old man, who was brought dead to CMCH. He was tested positive for the virus after death. He had no comorbidities. The remaining deceased is a 65-year-old woman, who was admitted to CMCH on July 26 with breathing difficulty. She died of bilateral bronchial pneumonia and diabetes on July 28. Udumalpet police station in Tirupur district was closed for fumigation after two cops tested positive for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpn-deputy-commissioner-tests-ve-dist-logs-303-cases/articleshow/77271613.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Thane||Covid-19: Three out of five districts with most active cases are in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: Pune district topped in active cases in the country on Thursday, followed by Bengaluru (Urban). Third and fourth positions were occupied by Thane and Mumbai—which meant three Maharashtra districts were among the top five. Chennai, inching toward the 1-lakh tally, had the fifth highest active cases. Of the 5,43,113 active cases in India, Pune district alone accounts for almost 9% (48,815), which means nearly one of every 10 infected Indians is currently in Pune. Covid-19 positive patients under treatment are categorised as active cases and become an important marker to gauge the burden on healthcare infrastructure. Bengaluru (Urban) had 36,523 active cases on Thursday, while Thane and Mumbai had 31,923 and 20,158 cases respectively. Mumbai’s active case load started showing a decline in mid-July. However, it has nearly double the active cases than Delhi, which ranks seventh with a tally of 10,743. The analysis also shows Andhra Pradesh is the most affected state after Maharashtra: it has four districts in the top 10. Delhi’s tally is the total of cases across 11 districts of the capital territory. Two of every 10 active cases in the state are now in PunePune district, which had seen a declining trend in early June, started to add a sizeable number of fresh infections over the past few weeks. Currently, 33% of Maharashtra’s active cases (1,48,150) are from Pune. The rapid spread in Thane district and its nine corporations – which has led to the pandemic’s epicentre shifting out of Mumbai – has meant that it currently accounts for 22.2% of the active caseload in the state – two of every 10 in the state – and 6.2% of the total active in India. Dr Pradeep Awate, Maharashtra’s surveillance officer, said the mobility and connectivity between the big cities and their satellite areas is responsible for the bulk of infections being reported from Thane and Pune. In fact, the movement of people across porous state borders is cited as the reason for cases spiking in Andhra Pradesh too. The flow of traffic between Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Andhra remains largely unrestricted. Bengaluru Urban, which crossed the 1,000-mark for Covid deaths on Thursday, has rapidly added cases and mortalities in the past 30 days. Fatalities in the district increased more than 900% at a rate of around 31 per day, with over 50 deaths on several days in July. In terms of cases, when the month began, the number was under 5,000 but rose and touched 10,000 in six days. In the next eight days, the tally doubled to 20,969. On Thursday, the city had touched 53,324 cases. Rapid multiplication of cases has stretched the city’s health infrastructure; there are several stories of bed shortage. Pune, between July 14 and July 27, also added the highest number of new cases in the country. Of the total 5,74,858 cases added in these two weeks, 37,950 were from Pune district alone. The third highest addition in those two weeks was reported from Thane district which added 24,012 cases. Senior officials said the surge in cases in Pune and Thane district has been a concern for the state as well as the Centre. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray travelled to Pune on Thursday for a review of the situation there. His visit came a day after public health minister Rajesh Tope also undertook a review of the situation in the district. “Cases in Pune district is likely to see a surge for the next 8-10 days before starting to stabilize. There is a general observation that when 20-25% population are infected, then the cases begin to drop,” Tope said. He attributed the big jump in cases to increased usage of rapid antigen testing. Incidentally, Pune district has used the highest antigen kits, over 70,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/3-out-of-5-districts-with-most-active-cases-are-in-mrashtra/articleshow/77275888.cms||Bhavika Jain
July 31, 2020||Coimbatore||ESI Hosp to equip 400 beds for Covid patients with high-flow oxygen lines||Coimbatore: At least 70 more beds have been equipped with high-flow oxygen lines in the ESI Hospital, the main Covid-19 treatment centre in the district. The hospital has 310 such beds now.The move comes at a time when the district is seeing an upward curve in Covid-19 cases, many of which are symptomatic and require oxygen support because of breathing difficulties. Recently, health minister C Vijaya Bahskar had announced Rs75 crore to increase beds with high-flow oxygen lines in government hospitals across the state.Dr A Nirmala, dean, ESI Hospital, says, “Work is on to equip all the 400 beds, which have been set aside for Covid-19 patients, with oxygen lines.” Presently, 80 of the 330 patients in the hospital are on oxygen support. “We want to be prepared to provide oxygen for every patient who requires it,” she said while admitting that an increasing number of patients are coming with pneumonia and low blood oxygen saturation levels, requiring oxygen support.Patients, who come with acute pneumonia and resultant low blood oxygen saturation levels, require oxygen support for anywhere between three and nine days. The ESI Hospital, which has discharged more than 2,000 patients in the current Covid-19 wave, is the main treatment centre for symptomatic or high-risk group patients from the Nilgiris and Tirupur as well.Of the 270 to 280 new Covid-19 cases in the district a day, 30 to 40 symptomatic patients are admitted to the ESI Hospital.The Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) has, meanwhile, increased the bed strength for Covid-19 patients to 555 from 200. At least 425 of them are with high-flow oxygen lines that could provide patients up to 60 litres oxygen a day.Dr P Kalidas, CMCH dean, says, “We are admitting a few patients, who come to us directly with flu or breathing difficulties and end up testing positive for the virus. In some cases, patients with multiple complications like renal failure, requiring dialysis, also test positive. We have 30 Covid-19 patients on oxygen support and another 25 patients with flu-like symptoms. Some of them are awaiting Covid-19 results, while others are negative but require hospital care.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/esi-hosp-to-equip-400-beds-for-covid-patients-with-high-flow-oxygen-lines/articleshow/77271639.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Three out of five districts with most active cases are in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: Pune district topped in active cases in the country on Thursday, followed by Bengaluru (Urban). Third and fourth positions were occupied by Thane and Mumbai—which meant three Maharashtra districts were among the top five. Chennai, inching toward the 1-lakh tally, had the fifth highest active cases. Of the 5,43,113 active cases in India, Pune district alone accounts for almost 9% (48,815), which means nearly one of every 10 infected Indians is currently in Pune. Covid-19 positive patients under treatment are categorised as active cases and become an important marker to gauge the burden on healthcare infrastructure. Bengaluru (Urban) had 36,523 active cases on Thursday, while Thane and Mumbai had 31,923 and 20,158 cases respectively. Mumbai’s active case load started showing a decline in mid-July. However, it has nearly double the active cases than Delhi, which ranks seventh with a tally of 10,743. The analysis also shows Andhra Pradesh is the most affected state after Maharashtra: it has four districts in the top 10. Delhi’s tally is the total of cases across 11 districts of the capital territory. Two of every 10 active cases in the state are now in PunePune district, which had seen a declining trend in early June, started to add a sizeable number of fresh infections over the past few weeks. Currently, 33% of Maharashtra’s active cases (1,48,150) are from Pune. The rapid spread in Thane district and its nine corporations – which has led to the pandemic’s epicentre shifting out of Mumbai – has meant that it currently accounts for 22.2% of the active caseload in the state – two of every 10 in the state – and 6.2% of the total active in India. Dr Pradeep Awate, Maharashtra’s surveillance officer, said the mobility and connectivity between the big cities and their satellite areas is responsible for the bulk of infections being reported from Thane and Pune. In fact, the movement of people across porous state borders is cited as the reason for cases spiking in Andhra Pradesh too. The flow of traffic between Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Andhra remains largely unrestricted. Bengaluru Urban, which crossed the 1,000-mark for Covid deaths on Thursday, has rapidly added cases and mortalities in the past 30 days. Fatalities in the district increased more than 900% at a rate of around 31 per day, with over 50 deaths on several days in July. In terms of cases, when the month began, the number was under 5,000 but rose and touched 10,000 in six days. In the next eight days, the tally doubled to 20,969. On Thursday, the city had touched 53,324 cases. Rapid multiplication of cases has stretched the city’s health infrastructure; there are several stories of bed shortage. Pune, between July 14 and July 27, also added the highest number of new cases in the country. Of the total 5,74,858 cases added in these two weeks, 37,950 were from Pune district alone. The third highest addition in those two weeks was reported from Thane district which added 24,012 cases. Senior officials said the surge in cases in Pune and Thane district has been a concern for the state as well as the Centre. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray travelled to Pune on Thursday for a review of the situation there. His visit came a day after public health minister Rajesh Tope also undertook a review of the situation in the district. “Cases in Pune district is likely to see a surge for the next 8-10 days before starting to stabilize. There is a general observation that when 20-25% population are infected, then the cases begin to drop,” Tope said. He attributed the big jump in cases to increased usage of rapid antigen testing. Incidentally, Pune district has used the highest antigen kits, over 70,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/3-out-of-5-districts-with-most-active-cases-are-in-mrashtra/articleshow/77275884.cms||Bhavika Jain
July 31, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Three out of five districts with most active cases are in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: Pune district topped in active cases in the country on Thursday, followed by Bengaluru (Urban). Third and fourth positions were occupied by Thane and Mumbai—which meant three Maharashtra districts were among the top five. Chennai, inching toward the 1-lakh tally, had the fifth highest active cases. Of the 5,43,113 active cases in India, Pune district alone accounts for almost 9% (48,815), which means nearly one of every 10 infected Indians is currently in Pune. Covid-19 positive patients under treatment are categorised as active cases and become an important marker to gauge the burden on healthcare infrastructure. Bengaluru (Urban) had 36,523 active cases on Thursday, while Thane and Mumbai had 31,923 and 20,158 cases respectively. Mumbai’s active case load started showing a decline in mid-July. However, it has nearly double the active cases than Delhi, which ranks seventh with a tally of 10,743. The analysis also shows Andhra Pradesh is the most affected state after Maharashtra: it has four districts in the top 10. Delhi’s tally is the total of cases across 11 districts of the capital territory. Two of every 10 active cases in the state are now in PunePune district, which had seen a declining trend in early June, started to add a sizeable number of fresh infections over the past few weeks. Currently, 33% of Maharashtra’s active cases (1,48,150) are from Pune. The rapid spread in Thane district and its nine corporations – which has led to the pandemic’s epicentre shifting out of Mumbai – has meant that it currently accounts for 22.2% of the active caseload in the state – two of every 10 in the state – and 6.2% of the total active in India. Dr Pradeep Awate, Maharashtra’s surveillance officer, said the mobility and connectivity between the big cities and their satellite areas is responsible for the bulk of infections being reported from Thane and Pune. In fact, the movement of people across porous state borders is cited as the reason for cases spiking in Andhra Pradesh too. The flow of traffic between Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Andhra remains largely unrestricted. Bengaluru Urban, which crossed the 1,000-mark for Covid deaths on Thursday, has rapidly added cases and mortalities in the past 30 days. Fatalities in the district increased more than 900% at a rate of around 31 per day, with over 50 deaths on several days in July. In terms of cases, when the month began, the number was under 5,000 but rose and touched 10,000 in six days. In the next eight days, the tally doubled to 20,969. On Thursday, the city had touched 53,324 cases. Rapid multiplication of cases has stretched the city’s health infrastructure; there are several stories of bed shortage. Pune, between July 14 and July 27, also added the highest number of new cases in the country. Of the total 5,74,858 cases added in these two weeks, 37,950 were from Pune district alone. The third highest addition in those two weeks was reported from Thane district which added 24,012 cases. Senior officials said the surge in cases in Pune and Thane district has been a concern for the state as well as the Centre. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray travelled to Pune on Thursday for a review of the situation there. His visit came a day after public health minister Rajesh Tope also undertook a review of the situation in the district. “Cases in Pune district is likely to see a surge for the next 8-10 days before starting to stabilize. There is a general observation that when 20-25% population are infected, then the cases begin to drop,” Tope said. He attributed the big jump in cases to increased usage of rapid antigen testing. Incidentally, Pune district has used the highest antigen kits, over 70,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/3-out-of-5-districts-with-most-active-cases-are-in-mrashtra/articleshow/77272521.cms||Bhavika Jain
July 31, 2020||Nashik||Nashik woman dies after geyser bursts||NASHIK : A 58-year-old woman who allegedly received burn injuries after an electric water geyser burst in her house in the Satpur area on July 16, died on Wednesday. The deceased, identified as Surekha Ratnaparkhi, was a resident of Lal Bahadur Shastri Chowk at Ashoknagar. The Satpur police station has registered a case of an accidental death. According to the police officers, the incident took place on the morning of July 16. The deceased went to the bathroom to take a shower and switched on the geyser for hot water. A few minutes later, there was a loud noise and the geyser burst. The bathroom ceiling’s plaster also fell on the floor and the woman was thrown out by the impact. The family members rushed to her help and found that the woman had received injuries due to steam. She was quickly rushed to a local hospital and was undergoing treatment there till Wednesday afternoon . The woman is survived by her husband and two sons, the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-woman-dies-after-geyser-bursts/articleshow/77268783.cms||---
July 31, 2020||India||PIL urges Supreme Court to disband panel probing killings of Vikas Dubey, aides||NEW DELHI: After succeeding in getting a retired SC Judge to head commission of inquiry into Vikas Dubey encounter killing, the Mumbai-based advocate-cum-PIL petitioner on Thursday moved the Supreme Court seeking disbanding of the panel alleging that there would be no fair inquiry as head of the panel Justice B S Chauhan's close relatives were legislators in BJP. A bench headed by CJI S A Bobde had on Tuesday trashed Petitioner-advocate Ghanshyam Upadhyay's plea for replacement of ex-DGP K L Gupta in the inquiry Commission on alleged grounds of his bias for police encounters. Undeterred, he has now filed another application alleging bias against both Justice Chauhan and Gupta, who he said was a relative of Kanpur zone IG under whose jurisdiction the encounter killing of Dubey took place. Quoting a web portal article, Upadhyay alleged that "Justice Chauhan’s younger brother Virender Singh is currently a BJP member of the legislative council in UP. The article further reveals that not only Sigh but also his son switched loyalties to BJP last year from Samajwadi Party. Justice Chauhan’s brother now sits on the treasury benches in the upper house of the state legislature and is known to be among the front-runners for a berth in Yogi Adityanath’s council of ministers whenever the next expansion takes place. From the said article, it is also found that Justice Chauhan’s daughter is married to the son of BJP MP from Rajasthan, Shri Sukhbir Jaunpuria." Upadhya made an audacious inference by saying, "it is discernible that the aforesaid two members (Justice Chauhan and ex-DGP Gupta) are in active collusion and connivance with the State administration in hushing up the issue of killing six accused in fake encounters and that being the case, only conclusion which can be drawn is that if the aforesaid members are allowed to be part of the Commission, then justice would completely elude." Appearance of solicitor general Tushar Mehta too was conjectured as an assistance by the Centre to the UP government. "Since BJP is ruling party in UP and state administration itself including its Chief Minister is alleged to be involved in fake encounters of six accused and as central government is also run by BJP, it appears to have provided all support to UP Government in contesting the present matter before the SC, which can be clearly seen from appearance of SGI for and on behalf of the State of Uttar Pradesh."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pil-urges-supreme-court-to-disband-panel-probing-killings-of-vikas-dubey-aides/articleshow/77273559.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
July 31, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: 2-year-old boy falls off second-floor balcony, dies||NASHIK: A two-year-old boy died after falling from the balcony of his second-floor flat at Rudra Avenue in the Shivaji Nagar area, here, around 7pm on Wednesday evening. Gaurav Sharad Shewale was playing with a ball that fell from the house. His mother went down to bring it when the boy leaned over the balcony and lost balance, said police. Police said that Gaurav was the couple’s only child and that his father had gone out of home for some work. Assistant inspector Pradeep Bhumkar of Gangapur police station said Gaurav’s mother locked him in the flat and went down to bring the ball. “The boy went to the balcony and tried to see his mother. To get a clear view, he climbed on to the side wall of the balcony and started leaning over the railings. When his mother entered the building, he leaned further and fell on the ground.” The officer said upon hearing a loud noise, the woman and some of her neighbours rushed to see what had happened and found the boy lying injured. The boy was rushed to the Nashik civil hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead. The parents took the body to their native place for the last rites, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-year-old-boy-falls-off-second-floor-balcony-dies/articleshow/77268799.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Delhi||Active Covid cases down in Delhi, action against violators up||NEW DELHI: The number of active Covid-19 cases in Delhi is at a two-month low and Covid beds are lying empty. While the cases seem to have plateaued, Delhi government is still in no mood to take any chances. Apart from door-to-door screening that is being carried out in containment zones, buffer zones and areas with isolated cases, district authorities have now also stepped up action against Covid-19-related violations. Such violations include spitting in public, not wearing face masks and not maintaining social distancing norms. Times ViewThose not wearing masks are not only a health-risk to others, but to themselves as well. Imposing fines is one way of discouraging the delinquent. But the large number of people fined for not wearing masks shows that one needs a combination of more creative public awareness campaigns and perhaps stronger deterrents to drive the point home.District officials said that any complacency at this juncture may lead to the number of coronavirus cases going up. “The number of Covid-19 cases is definitely going down and while this is very assuring, it is not the time for complacency. Most district authorities are ensuring strict action against those violating rules so that we don’t see a second wave of Covid-19 cases in Delhi,” said a senior district official. The Delhi Epidemic Cases (Management of Covid-19) Regulations, 2020 mandates that those violating Covid norms will have to cough up Rs 500 as fine for the first time and Rs 1,000 for repeat offences. Fines are being levied for non-observance of quarantine rules; non-maintenance of social distancing; not wearing face masks or cover in all public places and workplaces; spitting in public places; and consuming paan, gutka, tobacco, etc in public places. Southwest district has penalised 10,373 people for the mask norm violation. The district officials have fined 2,555 people for not maintaining social distancing, 185 for spitting in public places and 54 for consuming pan, gutka or tobacco in public places. The total amount realised in fines by the district is Rs 65.9 lakh. North district, on the other hand, has issued 7,202 challans for not wearing a face mask, 1,955 for not maintaining social distancing, 503 for spitting in public, 25 for consuming pan, gutka or tobacco in public places and 20 for violating quarantine rules. The total amount realised in fines by the district is Rs 46.1 lakh. Between June 16 and July 30, New Delhi district has penalised 5,119 for not wearing face masks, 735 for not maintaining social distancing, 345 for spitting, 228 for consumption of paan, gutka or tobacco and 13 for large congregations. The amount of challan is Rs 32.2 lakh. Apart from district revenue officials, many other senior government officials, including those of Delhi Police and municipal corporations also have the authority to penalise violators. “We are getting help from all other agencies,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/active-covid-cases-down-action-against-violators-up/articleshow/77271653.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Human challenge trials not ethically justified at this time, says top US expert||NEW DELHI: American physician and immunologist Anthony Fauci has opposed the idea of conducting human challenge trials to expedite the development of the Covid-19 vaccine. Human challenge trials involve intentionally infecting volunteers with the novel coronavirus to assess its efficacy. “We recently convened an expert consultation on this issue and the conclusion was that such studies are not necessary at this time,” Fauci said on Thursday, while addressing an international symposium organised by Indian Council of Medical Research on novel ideas in science and ethics of vaccines against the Covid-19 pandemic. The physician added that the continuing high incidence of the disease was concerning from a public health standpoint but it made randomised controlled trial, which is ongoing, quite feasible. India is conducting Phase Itrials of the Covid-19 vaccine developed indigenously by Bharat Biotech, in collaboration with the ICMR in 12 centers across the country. “The full health impact of SARS-Cov2 infection is not yet fully understood and we have no highly effective therapies that are available to cure individuals who are infected in a challenge study. These factors have led us to conclude that human challenge studies are not essential or ethically justified at the moment,” Fauci, an infectious disease expert who is on US President Donald Trump’s task force for managing the pandemic in the country, claimed. Three weeks ago, Fauci said, the Global Vaccine Action Plan, which advocates equitable access to vaccines for people in all communities, convened an expert advisory committee meeting to review the Covid-19 vaccine research and development in India. “Eleven vaccines were reviewed and the panel of experts provided recommendations for how these candidates might be further developed and assessed,” he added. India’s manufacturing capacity is going to be very important, the American infectious disease expert said, once an effective Covid-19 vaccine emerges from ongoing research. “In the US, we have a system called ‘Operation Warp Speed’ that’s focused on half a dozen leading candidates for Covid-19 vaccine and a few days ago, working with the company Moderna, we initiated Phase III trials to assess efficacy of an mRNA vaccine platform candidate. Even as I speak, over 80 sites are getting involved into a rolling out a study and as we move forward, additional sites outside the US, depending on the course of the pandemic will be utilised,” Fauci added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/human-challenge-trials-not-ethically-justified-at-this-time-top-us-expert/articleshow/77271672.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
July 31, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: 2 booked for causing accident||NASHIK: The city police on Wednesday booked two people for negligent driving and causing accident at ABB circle. According to police, the suspects — a car and motorcyle drivers — have been booked under section 279 of the Indian Penal Code along with other section of the Motor Vehicles Act. “The suspect in the car was driving from Maharashtra Police Academy to Mahatma Nagar for which he had to take a right from the ABB Signal. He failed to stop his car at the signal even though the light had already turned orange. At the same time a woman motorcyclist on her way from Mahatma Nagar started her bike and jumped the red signal to move towards City Centre Mall. Due to this both the vehciles collided,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-booked-for-causing-accident/articleshow/77268811.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Lucknow||Key to footfall, multiplexes seek revenue-sharing model||Lucknow: The onset of Covid-19 and the subsequent lockdown brought multiplexes into a zero revenue scenario. Malls and multiplexes have been working on options like rental holidays and revenue-sharing models to tide over the crisis. A white paper on the mall scenario in India titled ‘Rebirth Of Retail Malls: New, Improved and Revitalized’ released by India’s leading real estate services company Anarock identifies ‘coexistence of malls and multiplexes’ as one of the 6 pillars of a success of a mall. According to Shirish Handa, chief business development officer, INOX Leisure Ltd, “Multiplexes occupy anywhere between 1/10th to 1/4th of the total leasable space in the mall and fetches a large chunk of the mall’s footfall as well as revenue. Thanks to its weekday pricing strategies and great ambience, the multiplex forms the key footfall multiplier for any mall. Even after the government’s green signal to open the multiplexes is received, multiplexes are set to bear the brunt of lack of saleable and attractive fresh content. Unlike a brand which deals in tangible merchandise, multiplexes have to depend on film studios and distributors for content, and looks very uncertain in the immediate short term, resulting in deep revenue losses.” “With a substantial reduction in revenues, but no real change in our fixed costs, the bottom-lines do not look safe at all when we reopen. Hence, till the business stabilizes, a revenue-share based approach is the most suitable option for both the multiplex as well the mall owners to tide over this tough phase,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/key-to-footfall-multiplexes-seek-revenue-sharing-model/articleshow/77272536.cms||Ankur Tewari
July 31, 2020||Coimbatore||Forest officials trying to revive ailing tusker||Coimbatore: Forest officials found an ailing tusker at Mettupalayam forest range on Thursday. The elephant had a wound on the left palate of its mouth, officials said. Doctors who attended to the elephant suspect that the injuries were inflicted after a duel with another tusker. The elephant was administered 32 bottles of glucose. The elephant had been spotted at Sundapatti section of Nellithurai reserve forest in Mettupalayam a few days ago, but frontline staff could not approach it as there was a herd of elephants nearby. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/forest-officials-trying-to-revive-ailing-tusker/articleshow/77271667.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Kochi||Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case: Customs officer moved to Nagpur||KOCHI: Aneish P Rajan, a joint commissioner of customs, against whom state BJP leaders had made allegations of having Left political links has been transferred to Nagpur. Rajan, who was a member of the team probing the smuggling of gold using diplomatic routes, earned the ire of BJP leaders in the state after a statement given to the media that the customs office did not receive calls regarding the release of baggage. Leaders, including BJP state president K Surendran, had alleged that Rajan had Left political leanings and this was the reason he tried to exonerate the chief minister’s office with a premature clean chit. As per the order dated July 29, the officer has to be relieved immediately and has to join the Nagpur customs and central excise zone by August 10. “No representation whatsoever shall be entertained before the posting,” said the order. Rajan is currently posted in Thiruvananthapuram CGST & CX zone. Surendran, in the first week of July, had posted on Facebook criticizing the officer for making the comment and said that the chief minister had used the statement to show his innocence. He also attached a FB post in which Rajan had praised a humanitarian statement made by the chief minister regarding the need to provide food and water to animals and birds during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/customs-officer-moved-to-nagpur/articleshow/77270103.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Delhi||Four panels to inspect 11 hospitals to curb coronavirus deaths in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi government on Thursday constituted four committees of experts to inspect 11 private and government Covid-designated healthcare facilities and give recommendations on steps required to be taken at each hospital to further reduce deaths, besides betterment of patients care services. The members of the committees would check whether the hospitals were following the standard operating procedures and protocols and figure out the problems and reasons for the deaths. The committees would have to submit their reports to the principal secretary (health) by August 3. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted: “The deaths due to Covid in Delhi have come down. But it has to be reduced further. Today, we formed four committees of doctors which will inspect these hospitals and give suggestions: 1) Where there are still more deaths, 2) Where there are more deaths in wards, which means the patient was not taken to ICU on time.” An order issued by the health department stated: “It was observed that the percentage of Covid deaths vis-a-vis admissions and percentage of deaths in wards of 11 hospitals, government and private, was on the higher side from July 1 to July 23.” In total, 3,907 people have died in different hospitals. In June, there were nearly 100 deaths on some days, but that number had been brought down significantly. The daily Covid deaths have been under 30 for the past few days. Each of the four committees comprise specialists, two from internal medicine and two anaesthetists. While three of the committees have been assigned three hospitals each, the fourth would be inspecting two hospitals. “The committees will be examining whether SOPs for treating Covid-19 patients are being followed in the hospitals. They will also analyse the reason for the higher percentage of deaths,” said an official. The healthcare facilities that would be inspected by the committees include Fortis Escorts Heart Institute, GTB, Max Saket, St Stephens’ Hospital, RML , Sir Ganga Ram, Safdarjung and Lok Nayak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/4-panels-to-inspect-11-hospitals-to-curb-coronavirus-deaths/articleshow/77271699.cms||AlokKNMishra
July 31, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Prisoners to man IOC-prison department fuel depots||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: As many as 45 inmates in three prisons in the state, including the central prisons in Thiruvananthapuram and Viyyur and open prison in Cheemeni, will be employed as fuel station operators in three fuel stations launched jointly by Indian Oil Corporation and prisons department in the land adjacent to these prisons. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated the fuel stations that have been launched in 25 cents leased out to the corporation for 30 years in each of these prisons. About Rs 5.9 lakh will be paid to the government by the corporation as lease rent for the land. Work is progressing on a fuel station in 39 cents in the central prison, Kannur. The fuelling stations will also have CNG filling facility and electrical charging facility in the future. Inaugurating the fuel stations, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that in addition to providing clean fuel to consumers, there will also be public comfort stations. “Kerala is the only state where an inmate would be allowed to dispense diesel and petrol to the public. These inmates have undergone half the term of their sentences. They were chosen as they showed good behaviour in jail,” said Rishi Raj Singh, DGP (prisons and correctional services). The department trained 15 inmates in each prison to work in the fuel stations. Each inmate would earn nearly Rs 200 for eight-hour duty. The jail welfare fund will also earn a share from sale of petrol and diesel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/prisoners-to-man-ioc-prison-dept-fuel-depots/articleshow/77270135.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Covid hits new crest with 485 cases after 3-day fall||LUCKNOW: After seeming to be sliding into a trough, Covid-19 cases hit a new crest of 485 so far in the city on Thursday, crossing the 400-mark for the third time in last seven days. The Lucknow Development Authority office in Gomtinagar was shut for 24 hours for sanitisaiton after a clerk tested positive for Covid-19. Similarly, Lucknow Municipal Corporation’s zone six office on Hardoi road was closed for sanitisaiton after two employees tested positive.The highest number of 24 cases were reported from Alambagh, followed by 22 from Gomtinagar, and closely followed by Mahanagar with 19, Aashiana 18, Chinhat 16, Bazarkhala and Naka 15 each and Indira Nagar 13 cases. Jankipuram and Madiaon reported 12 cases each, while 11 cases were found in Aliganj as well as Chowk. Active cases in Lucknow spiralled to 4,381, while total increased to 7,615, nearly one-third (2,481) of which have been added in seven days. The surge at the start of July averaged 200 cases daily, but has now crossed 300. “There has been an increase in transmission rate, but equally significant is that more cases, particularly asymptomatic, are being detected and isolated because of aggressive testing. This will eventually flatten the curve,” said officers. Chief medical officer Dr Rajendra Prasad Singh said labs are doing about 2,000 RT-PCR and 5,500 antigen tests per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-hits-new-crest-with-485-cases-after-3-day-fall/articleshow/77272539.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Nashik||6 cured Covid-19 patients in Nashik district donate plasma||NASHIK: Six residents of the Nashik district, who have made full recovery after contracting Covid-19, have donated their plasma for the treatment of other patients suffering from the viral infection. The plasma was retrieved at the Arpan blood bank. Three active patients in Nashik city were given four bottles of plasma while the remaining two bottles were sent to Mumbai. Nitin Gite, a doctor from the Saikheda village of Niphad taluka in Nashik district, was one of the donors. “I contracted Covid-19 while treating people in my village and underwent treatment for the same. Soon after my treatment, Arpan blood bank approached me for blood donation. I agreed immediately,” said Gite. While Gite and another recovered patient donated the plasma voluntarily, four other donors were conselled and encouraged by their relatives to make the life-saving donation. Shashikant Patil of Arpan blood bank said, “People can donate plasma every 15 days and not wait for blood donation camps that are held once in three months. It does not affect a person’s health adversely.” Requesting other recovered Covid-19 patients to come forward for donations, vice-chairman of Arpan blood bank Atul Jain said, “Since there are a large number of patients in Nashik district, it can now take the lead in providing relief by seeking the help of those who have recovered and qualify the conditions for plasma donation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/6-cured-covid-19-patients-in-nashik-dist-donate-plasma/articleshow/77268838.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 31, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu: Four caught smuggling jumbo tusks||ERODE: Forest officials arrested four people on Wednesday for smuggling elephant tusks, apart from seizing two motorcycles from them. Ganesh Pandian, forest range officer of TN Palayam range, said the accused were found driving on two motorcycles in a restricted portion of the forest by a patrol team. Forest personnel subjected them to regular screening and found a pair of tusks which they had hidden in a jute bag. The accused admitted that they were smuggling the tusks from a hideout in the forest. They have been identified as T Palanisamy, 50, of Thoddakombai village, A Angappan, 54, V Andavan, 47 and M Govindarajan, 41, all from of Poonatchi village. The gang members confessed that the tusks were extracted by them from a 40-year-old elephant that had died. “The tusker had died 20 days ago of age-related ailments in the forest,” the forest range officer said, adding that the gang members had chopped the tusks from the dead elephant and buried it in a hideout. The accused have been sent to judicial custody at the district prison in Gobichettipalayam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tamil-nadu-four-caught-smuggling-jumbo-tusks/articleshow/77271696.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Officials crack down on excessive billing by hospital in Whitefield||Bengaluru: A team formed by the state government to monitor treatment of Covid-19 patients in private hospitals has cracked down on an establishment for raising bills for huge sums. Despite the government fixing prices for treatment, several private hospitals have been found charging way in excess of upper limits set. A team comprising IPS officer Sunil Agarwal and IAS officer Uma Mahadevan besides others visited five hospitals in Whitefield and surrounding areas and found that in one hospital, 14 patients had been made to pay huge sums of for treatment. The team warned the hospital management and directed them to repay the patients the money collected in excess of government tariff. A source said it was discovered that a private hospital on Sarjapura Road had collected over Rs 5 lakh excess money from these 14 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/officials-crack-down-on-excessive-billing-by-hospital-in-whitefield/articleshow/77270132.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Farmers’ organisations to observe August 15 as black day||MYSURU: Karnataka State Sugar Cane Growers Association president Kurubur Shanthakumar on Thursday said that several farmers’ organisations have decided launch a state-wide agitation against the government from August second week condemning it’s anti-farmer policies. The farmers’ organisations have decided to hold a semi-nude protest in front of DCs office across the state on August 8. They will also observe the Independence Day as black day and hold a silent sit in protest wearing black badges in front of the Gandhi statue at Freedom Park in Bengaluru on August 15. Kurubur Shanthakumar also demanded the Prime Minister and the Speaker of the Parliament to convene a special parliamentary session to discuss farmer-centric issues. “Government must provide special packages to poultry, floriculturists, agriculturists and pisciculturists as they have suffered severe losses during the pandemic,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/farmers-organisations-to-observe-aug-15-as-black-day/articleshow/77268860.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Nashik||Police appeal for a low-key Eid this year||NASHIK: The city and district police have appealed to the Muslim community to offer the Eid-ul-Zuha prayers at home and avoid crowding while buying male goats or sacrificing them given the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. Police have also stepped up vigil on people transporting animals without obtaining permission. “We have urged people to keep the forthcoming Eid a low-key affair. As per the state government ‘Unlock’ guidelines, there is no relaxation in gatherings for religious purposes,” city police commissioner Vishwas Nangare-Patil said. “Members of the Muslim community are requested to offer Eid prayer at home and perform ‘qurbani’ at an individual level or at home instead of gathering at a common place,” he said. Police said animals can be bought online as the goat markets are closed. The rural police, too, have stepped up vigil along the Gujarat and Nashik-Dhule borders to ensure that there is no transportation of large animals. “Every vehicle going towards Mumbai is also being thoroughly checked at Igatpuri,” superintendent of police Arti Singh said. The police officers said that people from Malegaon, Manmad, Yeola and other areas of the district, along with those from Nashik city, have extended their cooperation for the peaceful celebration of the festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-appeal-for-a-low-key-eid-this-year/articleshow/77268851.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Frontline healthcare workers may get vaccine first; no final decision taken yet||NEW DELHI: Who should get the Covid-19 vaccine first, once it is available? This topic is already being discussed among the policymakers in the government, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Thursday. He said there is no final decision yet though. Outside the government, Bhushan said, emerging consensus is that the healthcare workers have the best claim. “It will then demonstrate that the society and the nation is in a position to record its appreciation of the work that these front line healthcare workers have done and it will also eventually avoid shortage of healthcare workers,” Bhushan said. The union health secretary added the issue of whether there would be a priority list isn’t decided either. But if such a thing were to happen, who would come second in the priority list? Bhushan said it could be the elderly, people with comorbidities or people who are neither elderly nor with any serious comorbidity but are placed in such a socio-economic milieu that they are malnourished or working in conditions of extreme poverty. “These are questions that are still engaging the policymakers,” he added. Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, the regional director of World Health Organization (WHO), said the Covid-19 vaccine, once developed, must be considered a global good – a good that can be accessed by all of humanity. “To facilitate rapid and equitable access to vaccines, WHO has launched an Access to Covid-19 Tool (ACT) accelerator,” she added. Dr Singh said it is anticipated by WHO that the initial tranche of vaccine will be made available to all countries to ensure healthcare workers can be immunised. “It’s not yet approved, but the second on priority list could be high-risk adults,” the regional director of WHO’s South-East Asia said. Subsequent allocations, Dr Singh added, are supposed to be based on population vulnerability of a particular country. Dr VK Paul, who heads the national task force on Covid-19 in India, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken personal interest in expediting Covid-19 vaccine development in the country. ICMR director general Balram Bhargava said there are four major aspects to the delivery of the Covid-19 vaccine. “One, prioritisation and fair distribution; two, logistics of vaccine roll-out; three, stockpiling and four, training of healthcare workers. In this context, India will play a significant role on the global stage and we will play this part with great care and responsibility,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/frontline-healthcare-workers-may-get-vaccine-first-no-final-decision-taken-yet/articleshow/77271714.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
July 31, 2020||Bhopal||Officials lock homes to stop Covid spread in Chhatarpur||Bhopal: Amid the raging Covid-19 pandemic in Chhatarpur district, the administration locked the houses of a containment area in Harpalpur town to check people’s movement. After a complaint that people were using their backdoor to move out, they were put under lock. Recently a man, who was living in the containment zone left for Jhansi after his swab samples were taken and a report was awaited. It caused concern and the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) ordered to lock the backdoor of the houses so that people do not escape from the containment zone. Over a dozen houses with backdoor have been locked. Administration sources said that people started leaving their houses after a locality was declared a containment zone as 3 corona positive cases were detected on Monday. But in the absence of police and administrative officials at night, people stated leaving their houses from the backdoor. Many of them are Covid suspects, including the 55-year-old man who left for Jhansi and whose swab sample report was awaited. “This man had gone to Jhansi to visit his native village of Garotha and was meeting many people in the small village. He was tracked down by police personnel and was brought back to Harpalpur”, police said. Villagers said the man has put the entire village at risk. Nowgong SDM Vinay Dwivedi said, “Presently, we have only locked their backdoor, if they insist and violate rules, cases will also be registered against them.” During the lockdown period in April, the district administration in Khajuraho had started locking the houses of people who were quarantined. But after a controversy, the locks were opened. The Nowgong SDM said, “We expect people to stay at home and help contain the pandemic. By moving out, they are not only risking their lives but that of others also.” There are 338 positive cases in Chhatarpur district||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/officials-lock-homes-to-stop-covid-spread-in-chhatarpur/articleshow/77271719.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: SC slams govts over delay in smog towers||NEW DELHI: With the central government seeking 10 more months to set up the first smog tower in Delhil, the Supreme Court on Thursday questioned the Centre, the state government and the Central Pollution Control Board for not complying with its January order to complete the task in three months. A bench of Justices Arun mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari said the authorities did nothing in the last seven months after it passed the order and made it clear that those responsible for the delay would not be spared. “There was an order to complete the project within three months. Who is responsible for the delay. We will call everybody and if needed we will call the file also,” the bench said after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta informed that the drawing will be ready in four months and the project will be completed in 10 months. As the apex court, during the last hearing, slammed the Centre and IIT-Bombay for not agreeing on the MoU for the project, Mehta said it has been prepared and will be signed by all parties. “You violated our order and still there is no intention to comply with our order. You take instruction and file an affidavit. If needed, we will supervise the project on a daily basis,” the bench said, and posted the case for hearing on August 4. Centre, in its earlier affidavit, had said that work could not be initiated as there were differences with IIT-Bombay on the terms and the MoU could not be signed, delaying the project. “It is submitted that since the proposal for installation of smog tower was conceptualised and developed by IIT-Bombay and it has co-ordinated with various agencies including University of Minnesota, Tata Projects Ltd and IIT-Delhi, it was technically best suited for IIT-Bombay to take the lead and responsibility for execution and coordination of the project,” the affidavit had said. The top court had on Wednesday slammed IIT-Bombay and said it would take action against the institute and others for violating its order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sc-slams-govts-over-delay-in-smog-towers/articleshow/77271721.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: These Muslim men step in for the dead when kin don’t||LUCKNOW: They are not healthcare workers nor do they work in graveyards, but a group of Muslim men in Lucknow have donned personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and have literally taken the graveyard shift. These men are burying Covid-19 victims who had no one to perform their last rites or their relatives were too scared to perform the task themselves. Around 10 in number and two clerics, all residents of Old City, these men have voluntarily taken up the ‘dangerous’ task and have helped bury seven Covid victims in Lucknow and one in Kanpur.  They say the only relationship they have with the dead is that of humanity. “The first person we buried was a woman from Dubagga who had died at a private hospital a month ago. She only had a son who could not have buried his mother alone. We received information through social media and offered help,” said Imdad Imam, who is leading the group which now calls itself Covid-19 Tadfeen Committee. Tadfeen stands for burial in Urdu.  Imdad (32) who runs a departmental store and does graphic designing, called up a doctor at KGMU seeking opinion on viability of performing the task. “We then took up training on how to don and dock the PPE kit which is highly important in keeping the infection away,” he said. The men are residents of Golaganj, Wazirganj, Kashmiri Mohalla and other Old City areas. The two clerics involved in the cause are Maulana Ali Ameer and Maulana Hasnain Baqai who fulfil the religious obligations during burial. “We have buried four bodies on our own and for others, we have helped the relatives and guided them through the process,” added Imdad. Asked if the volunteers are worried about their own medical safety, he said, “We follow the medical guidelines and take vitamin C and immunity boosting foods. On reaching home from the graveyard, we maintain distance from our families. We shroud the body over the body bag and place it in the centre of a 24-foot-long cloth which is used as a pulley to lower the body in a 6-foot-deep grave.” At Karbala Malka Jahan in Aishbagh, the mutawwali has spared 2,000 square feet for just Covid patients and has also installed a sanitization machine for disinfection. Imdad told TOI that the first time one of the volunteers had donned the PPE, he had felt dehydrated because of the heat. “But then he got back on his feet. Our families were hesitant too initially, but now everyone prays for our well-being,” he said. As the next step, the team wants to prepare people in different parts of the city to be able to perform the task with maximum safety.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/these-muslim-men-step-in-for-the-dead-when-kin-dont/articleshow/77272547.cms||Yusra Husain
July 31, 2020||Nashik||Sach app to track health of those with comorbidities in Sinnar||NASHIK: The Nashik zilla parishad has launched a new application titled Sach — an abbreviation for survey and analysis of Covid-19 comorbid health — in the Sinnar taluka on a pilot basis to track the health of people with comorbidities in an effort to curb the spread of Covid-19 infection. The app was inaugurated by ZP president Balasaheb Kshirsagar. Addressing the gathering at the launch, ZP CEO Leena Bansod said: “In our effort to arrest the spread of Covid-19, we have decided to conduct periodic health surveys of people with comorbid conditions with the help of the Sach app. It will help us detect the infection and initiate timely treatment and, in turn, avoid fatalities.” The application has details of 40,148 people in Sinnar taluka who either have comorbidities or are aged above 60 years. The application has their health records pertaining to conditions like diabetes, hypertension, asthma, cancers, kidney ailments, chronic illnesses etc. Guided by the data available via the app, health teams equipped with smartphones, will visit the vulnerable people twice every week and update the health parameters on the application. Depending on their health condition and need for medical intervention, people will be classified in three categories, which will reflect on the dashboard at the district health office in the Nashik ZP. “Thereafter, a referral programme will be designed and the community health officer will be given the responsibility of leading patients to the Covid care centres or covid hospitals,” another senior officer from the DHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/sach-app-to-track-health-of-those-with-comorbidities-in-sinnar/articleshow/77268873.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 31, 2020||Faridabad||Delhi’s daily biomedical waste 5 times of what it can process||NEW DELHI: The quantum of biomedical waste generated in the city increased by 15 times in June compared with the preceding month when just 25 tonnes was being produced daily. Moreover, while 372 tonnes of biomedical waste was generated in June every day, in July it was 349 tonnes, stated a report submitted by Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) to the Supreme Court. Delhi’s two common biomedical waste treatment facilities can collectively handle only 74 tonnes of such refuse each day. This means that the waste being generated currently is over five times the treatment capacity of the plants. The report, which collected data from both the state and central pollution control boards, mentioned that in Haryana, UP, Rajasthan and Delhi, the quantum of biomedical waste collectively increased from 94 tonnes per day in May to 761 tonnes in July (till July 24). However, the huge increase in June was attributed to waste from households and quarantine centres not being segregated and mixed with general garbage. “This puts pressure on the biomedical waste disposal facilities. Now, there is an emphasis on the need to segregate biomedical waste from general waste, even in households where there are Covid-19 patients. According to the guidelines, only infected waste (PPE suits, gloves, masks, swabs) should be put in the yellow bag meant for incineration, while food and other garbage should be collected as general waste,” Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) said in the report, adding that treatment facilities were adequate in the region if waste was segregated properly. In addition to CPCB and the state pollution control boards, EPCA also collected information from the municipal corporations in Delhi, Gurugram, Faridabad and Ghaziabad. The civic bodies explained that a system had been set up to collect waste from households and quarantine centres to send to the treatment facilities. However, south and north Delhi municipal corporations said they were sending the refuse to waste-to-energy (WTE) plants for incineration. EPCA suggested that this be rectified immediately, stating WTE plants were not equipped to deal with biomedical waste. “The south and north municipal corporations may be directed not to send biomedical waste to WTE plants. This is because WTEs are not designed to incinerate biomedical waste, which needs a double-incineration chamber and protocols for storage and emission control,” said the report. The committee also asked for biomedical waste to be tracked and suggested that all state pollution control boards and corporations use the COVID19BWM app for this purpose. “This may be made mandatory so that CPCB can track all biomedical waste and ensure that it is being sent for treatment,” said EPCA. It added that barcoding was also important for such waste. “It should not be left to the operators of the treatment facilities, as this will not allow for good management,” the report added. Watch Delhi’s daily biomedical waste 5 times of what it can process||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/citys-daily-bio-med-waste-5-times-of-what-it-can-process/articleshow/77279488.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
July 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Want to take a walk in this park? You can’t if not a resident||NEW DELHI: Do you live in south Delhi’s Neeti Bagh and have a valid identity card as your proof of residence? Both are essential to enter the local central park, states a board that has been put up outside by Supreme Court Bar Cooperative House Building Society Ltd. Residents from nearby localities like Gautam Nagar and Gulmohar Park are miffed with the decision, with one of them even writing to local MLA Somnath Bharti and registering a complaint with the deputy commissioner of South Delhi Municipal Corporation asking how such a restriction can be imposed in a public park. Arjun Bhagat, the resident of Gulmohar Park who has filed the complaint, said even during Covid-19, such a restriction was against the law and would set a dangerous precedence. “It is a blatant discrimination. How can people be stopped from entering a public park and told to deposit their Aadhaar card?” asked Bhagat. “Can you legally post private guards outside a public park and prevent others from entering?” The guards have been asked to check the ID card before scanning a person’s temperature. According to the terms of usage on the board, non-Neeti Bagh residents or guests are not permitted. “Entry to be allowed only on display of ID cards proving residence in Neeti Bagh and upon entering particulars in a register to be maintained at the gate,” it stated. Bhagat said he wanted to know if Delhi government had issued any such order. “Precautions can certainly be taken everywhere, but people cannot be barred from entering a place unless it is imposed by the government,” he said. Neeti Bagh residents also feel this is unjust, he claimed. The complainant has urged the corporation to decide the matter at the earliest. According to the complaint, “The society must be instructed to stop this discrimination as this is a publicly owned park of the corporation. Even if the society maintains the park under an agreement with the local authorities, it does not have the right to restrict entry.” Virender Singhal, vice-president of the Neeti Bagh residents welfare association, clarified that the restriction had not been imposed by them but by the Neeti Bagh society that oversaw the RWA and managed the park. “They have put in funds to beautify and manage the park, which has been leased out to them and the restrictions have come into place only during the Covid-19 lockdown to ensure that people from other areas don’t travel unnecessarily and put people here at risk,” he said. Ajit Puduserry, secretary of the cooperative society, refused to comment as the MLA and the corporation had already been approached. “The complaint is from Gulmohar Park and a similar park has restrictions there,” said Puduserry. A corporation official said many parks were maintained on a public-private partnership basis, but that didn’t mean that the facility had been leased out to a society or an RWA. “We will look into the complaint,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/want-to-take-a-walk-in-this-park-you-cant-if-not-a-resident/articleshow/77293141.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
July 31, 2020||Kochi||Heavy rains to continue on Friday in Kerala||KOCHI: The southwest monsoon continues to be active over Kerala with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) issuing an orange alert warning for Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam and Idukki on Friday. Yellow alert for Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Thrissur, Malappuram and Kozhikode. However, there were no major incidents caused by the heavy rainfall. According to the Kerala state disaster management authority (KSDMA), water level at Neyyar dam touched 82m at around 8pm and hence all four shutters were raised by 15cm each by 2pm. They are looking at the option of raising the shutters to 20cm around 10am on Friday after watching the water level of the river. Peppara dam level remains steady at 107.1m after opening of shutters. In case of rain in the night and increase in inflow, two shutters will be raised by 15cm at 4am on Friday. However, in Idukki, the water levels in main hydel dams remained below the rule curve level fixed by the central water commission in the wake of 2018 August floods. As per the revised rule curve, if the water levels in Idukki reservoir touched 2380.6ft, they are supposed to release water. But the water levels of Idukki reservoir on Thursday was well below 2333.5ft (only 34% of total storage) and 46.2ft below the central water commission fixed rule curve. The power generation in Moolamattam power plant remained at a low of 2.2million units on Wednesday. Idukki has witnessed a shortfall of nearly 44% rains this season. The average reservoir level of state dams was below 30%, said KSEB officials. KSEB chief engineer (dam safety and DRIP) Supriya S said, “As of now, water levels of main hydel dams have remained low till July-end. Presently, there is no need to open shutter gates of the main hydel dams in the state.” The storage level in main hydel dams are: Idukki (41.34%), Pamba (24%), Sholayar (35%), Idamalayar (26%), Kundala (17%), Mattupetty (12%), Kuttiady (33%), Thariyode (38%), Anayirankal (13%), Ponmudi (39%), Neriamangalam (38%), Peringalkuthu (54%), Lower Periyar (60%) and Kakkad (0%). The rough seas warning continues for coastal regions as squally weather with wind speed reaching 40-50kmph is likely to prevail along and off Kerala coast. High waves in the range of 1.8-3.3 meters are forecast along the coast of Kerala from Pozhiyoor to Kasaragod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/heavy-rains-to-continue-today/articleshow/77270213.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Delhi||Delhi’s daily biomedical waste 5 times of what it can process||NEW DELHI: The quantum of biomedical waste generated in the city increased by 15 times in June compared with the preceding month when just 25 tonnes was being produced daily. Moreover, while 372 tonnes of biomedical waste was generated in June every day, in July it was 349 tonnes, stated a report submitted by Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) to the Supreme Court. Delhi’s two common biomedical waste treatment facilities can collectively handle only 74 tonnes of such refuse each day. This means that the waste being generated currently is over five times the treatment capacity of the plants. The report, which collected data from both the state and central pollution control boards, mentioned that in Haryana, UP, Rajasthan and Delhi, the quantum of biomedical waste collectively increased from 94 tonnes per day in May to 761 tonnes in July (till July 24). However, the huge increase in June was attributed to waste from households and quarantine centres not being segregated and mixed with general garbage. “This puts pressure on the biomedical waste disposal facilities. Now, there is an emphasis on the need to segregate biomedical waste from general waste, even in households where there are Covid-19 patients. According to the guidelines, only infected waste (PPE suits, gloves, masks, swabs) should be put in the yellow bag meant for incineration, while food and other garbage should be collected as general waste,” Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) said in the report, adding that treatment facilities were adequate in the region if waste was segregated properly. In addition to CPCB and the state pollution control boards, EPCA also collected information from the municipal corporations in Delhi, Gurugram, Faridabad and Ghaziabad. The civic bodies explained that a system had been set up to collect waste from households and quarantine centres to send to the treatment facilities. However, south and north Delhi municipal corporations said they were sending the refuse to waste-to-energy (WTE) plants for incineration. EPCA suggested that this be rectified immediately, stating WTE plants were not equipped to deal with biomedical waste. “The south and north municipal corporations may be directed not to send biomedical waste to WTE plants. This is because WTEs are not designed to incinerate biomedical waste, which needs a double-incineration chamber and protocols for storage and emission control,” said the report. The committee also asked for biomedical waste to be tracked and suggested that all state pollution control boards and corporations use the COVID19BWM app for this purpose. “This may be made mandatory so that CPCB can track all biomedical waste and ensure that it is being sent for treatment,” said EPCA. It added that barcoding was also important for such waste. “It should not be left to the operators of the treatment facilities, as this will not allow for good management,” the report added. Watch Delhi’s daily biomedical waste 5 times of what it can process||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/citys-daily-bio-med-waste-5-times-of-what-it-can-process/articleshow/77271729.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
July 31, 2020||Surat||Ahmed Patel urges PM to send central team to Bharuch||Surat: Senior Congress leader and AICC treasurer, Ahmed Patel has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to send a team of officials of the union health ministry to Bharuch in particular and other vulnerable districts in Gujarat to asses the ground situation of the coronavirus pandemic. Raising serious concerns on the deteriorating Covid-19 situation in Bharuch and other districts of Gujarat, Patel in his letter to PM stated that the pandemic will simply crush the state’s healthcare infrastructure and will have a cascading impact on the lives of the people if steps are not taken. According to Patel, people in Bharuch district were still finding it difficult to undergo test near their place of residence and that less than 9,000 tests have been conduct in Bharuch district so far. People in the district have been complaining about ventilators, oxygen cylinders and lack of appropriate infrastructure in the Covid-19 hospitals. “Gujarat has to conduct far more tests, establish testing centres across all district headquarters and towns. As infection spreads in rural areas, it is essential that people need not have to travel long distance for getting themselves tested,” said Patel. He further stated that the rampant black marketing of the anti-viral drugs should be stopped in Gujarat, where mortality rate was still higher and needs to be brought under control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ahmed-patel-urges-pm-to-send-central-team-to-bharuch/articleshow/77268896.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Bengaluru||Patient dies after being made to wait in ambulance, driver assaulted||Bengaluru: A 33-year-old ambulance driver was beaten up by relatives of a Covid-19 patient who died while waiting in front of a private hospital on Thursday. While relatives alleged that the driver did not provide oxygen while carrying the patient to hospital, the latter maintained that persons died because of delay in completion of admission-related formalities. Yogesh, a 108 ambulance driver, had been assigned to pick up a 75-year-old patient from Bharathinagar. He picked him uo and reached MS Ramaiah Hospital at 4pm. While medical staff was told to wait for some time for admission procedures to be completed, the patient died in the ambulance. His family alleged that the driver did not provide oxygen to the patient which led to the death. However, Yogesh’s friend Devaraj, who also works in 108 ambulance service, said Yogesh provided oxygen supply, but the patient’s condition was critical by the time he was picked up from his residence. In a 14-second video that went viral, Yogesh can be seen being assaulted by the patients’s family members. Soon after the incident, Sadashivanagar police rushed to the spot but the kin had fled. Yogesh filed a police complaint and a case was registered. Medical education minister Sudhakar condemned the assault and said that it wasn’t right to attack the driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/patient-dies-after-being-made-to-wait-in-ambulance-driver-assaulted/articleshow/77270194.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Pune||Pune: Citizens wait & watch as Unlock 3.0 begins||PUNE: People willing to travel out of the district to other parts of Maharashtra said the Centre and the state government’s Unlock 3.0 orders were “conflicting” in nature and causing much confusion. Many travellers from Pune to other districts wondered if they still needed an e-pass, especially after the latest unlock guidelines by the Union government stressed on no restrictions on people’s inter-state and intra-state movement. The Maharashtra government order, however, continued to regulate the inter-district movement. A Twitter comment on Thursday said, “Little confused with UNLOCK 3.0, Do I require travel pass from inter district travel (Solapur<=>Pune) from 1st Aug onwards?” Another Twitter user tweeted to Pune Police, “Dear Police Department, Do we need an e-pass to travel from Pune to Solapur in August Month to attend the Ganpati Festival at home?? Is Inter-district travelling allowed as per new guidelines declared for August month??.” Prashan Yeole, who had come to Pune from Mumbai because of his mother’s illness, said the getting the travel pass was itself difficult then. “Now when I have to return to Mumbai for resuming office, it seems I will again have to apply for an e-pass. It’s quite a tedious process,” he said. Bachchan Singh, Pune deputy commissioner of police (crime) clarified on Thursday, “As far as travel passes are concerned, as per the Maharashtra government’s ‘Mission Begin Again’ guidelines dated July 29, inter-district movement continues to be regulated. Non-essential movement should be avoided. For emergency inter-district travel, people can apply for passes on www.punepolice.in.” Hrishikesh Kolhapure, director operations, K K Travels, told TOI, “Travel firms were confused on Thursday whether they needed to apply for an e-pass due to different orders from the Centre and the state government. But we could apply for e-passes for passengers on the Pune police website for August first week, which meant that the passes are still required.” All travellers are now trying to get an epass for important engagements, including meeting their families in other districts. “But at times, getting an e-pass is quite difficult,” a travel firm representative said. Girish Makhijani, owner, Hare Krishna Comfort Tours, told TOI, “In July, people travelling for emergency causes faced issues in getting approval for the e-pass. We had nearly 60-70% cancellation of plans, as the e-passes were not approved.” On Thursday, e-passes for travel from Pune to some districts, such as Sangli and Kolhapur, were put on hold as the (Pune) police was waiting for the necessary approvals from the district authorities in those locations. This further hampered travel plans. State home minister Anil Deshmukh had recently said he was in favour of continuing with the inter-district travel pass distribution process in August also. The minister said overcrowding would be unmanageable if the state allowed travel without any restriction.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/travellers-find-orders-on-e-passes-conflicting/articleshow/77271756.cms||Neha Madaan
July 31, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Admission to UG courses to be only online this year||BHOPAL: Higher education department on Thursday announced that admission process will only be held online for academic session 2020-21. Even the document verification will be conducted online due to Covid-19. Admission dates will be announced. The issued guidelines say that only those students whose document verification cannot be completed online will be required to visit the college. “It is to inform the students that this year admission will be completely online. Students should start preparation and arrange the necessary documents which are required to take admission in the college. This will help them from avoiding last minute rush,” said an official. Data verification of the students’ documents will be done through MP Online. The department has made it clear that the students won’t be required to visit the college for the document verification. For those students who could not get their documents verified within the given dates will have to get it done from any government college. The verified documents will be stamped online, of which a print out will have to be taken out. The documents which need to be verified are exam mark sheet, caste certificate, local resident proof, sports documents and others. The department has also made it clear that even after getting the seat in a college, student need not visit the campus for fee payment. Students can pay their fee digitally through e-pravesh portal. Even for the fee payment, the department has instructed the colleges to take 50% fee online and rest in two different instalments. Students who seek admission in PG courses can take temporary admission if their last exam results are yet to be announced. They will have to submit the previous final year mark sheet once their results are declared. Department has also issued the guidelines for the Mukhyamantri Medhavi Yojna. Any student who has secured minimum 70% in MP board and 85% in CBSE/ICSE boards is eligible for the scheme. Family or father’s income should not be more than Rs6 lakh per annum. Eligible students under the scheme will avail the facility of their complete fee to be given by the state government for pursuing UG level courses in both government and private colleges. 70 new help centres: The higher education department has formed 70 new help centres for the students seeking admissions in courses run by NCTE. These courses include B.Ed, M.Ed, B.Ped, M.Ped, BA.B.Ed and such others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/admission-to-ug-courses-to-be-only-online-this-year/articleshow/77271779.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Nashik||2 outlets start sale of CNG in Nashik||NASHIK: The Maharashtra Natural Gas Ltd (MNGL) has started commercial sale of green fuel for vehicles in Nashik. The two fuel stations that are providing Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) are at Igatpuri and Sinnar. “The sale of CNG from these two locations started a few days ago. We have received a good response from customers. The two outlets are selling about 1,500kg of CNG on an average,” said head of MNGL, Nashik region, Sandeep Srivastava. He added that MNGL was in the final stage of starting sale of CNG from five other locations by the end of next month. Unlike conventional fuel, CNG is non-polluting and used by scores of four wheelers and autorickshaws. “The use of CNG will help in tackling the probelem of air pollution in Nashik,” said Srivastava. MNGL, a joint venture between GAIL and BPCL, has been received the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board’s approval to supply green fuel in Nashik. Apart from CNG, the company is working to create infrastructure for supply of piped natural gas (PNG) to households. PNG will be a replacement for LPG that is used for cooking. Srivastava said that the Nashik Municipal Corporation was helping the company to create the necessary infrastructure for the supply of green fuel in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-outlets-start-sale-of-cng-in-nashik/articleshow/77268930.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Nashik||NMC takes over control of beds in private hospitals||NASHIK: As per the directive of state health minister Rajesh Tope, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has converted its helpline centre to a war room-cum-call centre that will remain operational 24x7 for allotment of beds in private hospitals engaged in treating Covid-19 patients. The NMC has deployed 10 officials each for three shifts of eight hours. They will allot the beds and monitor the system. The civic body has acquired a total of 1,141 beds in 39 private hospitals across the city. “We have developed a Centralized Bed Reservation System (CBRS) with the help of a private IT company. This system will help us know the exact occupancy and vacant beds in private hospitals. This will help us allot beds to patients as per their symptoms,”an NMC official said. “The officials deployed at the war room check the symptoms of the patients and decide where they should get admitted. What patients have to do is just call on the helpline number,” he added. Moreover, apart from beds, any complaints or information related to Covid-19 will also be solved through this war room. “There had been several complaints by the city residents about not getting beds in private hospitals and overcharging. Hence, the NMC has taken several measures to put check on private hospitals,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-takes-over-control-of-beds-in-pvt-hospitals/articleshow/77268922.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 31, 2020||Surat||Migrants escape nCov, now stranded in floods||Surat:Surat: For the last one week, Rajendra Upadhyay's mobile phone hasn’t stopped ringing. The labour contractor in the textile industry is attending to over 150 calls in a day from the workers in the flood-affected districts in flood-ravaged northern Bihar, who want to return to Surat to earn livelihood. Upadhyay has never faced such a situation in the four decades he has been in this business of supplying the labour workforce. He is unable to help the Bihari workers who are facing twin tragedies — Covid-19 in their workplace Surat and floods in their native Bihar. Upadhyay has a stereotyped answer to the workers “coronavirus is out of control in Surat, only 10% of textile units have restarted and less number of trains are coming from Bihar to Surat”. “I have helped hundreds of Bihari workers return home during the lockdown, but can’t offer them livelihood now when they are ravaged by floods in Bihar,” said Upadhyay, who is supplying workers to the powerloom and textile processing mills in and around the city. “For people in Northern Bihar, there are no options to earn a livelihood. For the last two months, they are without money and now floods have made them desperate to come to Surat.” Over 80% of the Bihari workforce in Surat hail from the northern districts in Bihar including Gopalganj, Madhubani, Darbhanga, Samastipur, Araria, Saharsa and Purnia, where the floods have wreaked havoc. Majority of the workers migrate to Surat and Mumbai for earning their livelihood. A primary estimate by the Bihar Vikas Parishad (BVP) suggests that about 3.5 lakh migrants, majority of them employed in the city’s textile sector, had moved out of the city to Bihar during lockdown in the Shramik special trains. Only 20,000 workers have managed to return to Surat by mid-July and that about 50,000 workers along with their families had stayed back in Surat. If the BVP office-bearers are to be believed then the workers are expected to start migrating in huge numbers by mid-August as they are left with no source of livelihood in Northern Bihar, especially after the floods. Dharmesh Singh, general secretary of BVP told TOI, “We expect the majority of the Bihari workers to return to Surat in August. The situation in Northern Bihar has become worse. Workers want to return and earn money to rebuild their families there.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/migrants-escape-ncov-now-stranded-in-floods/articleshow/77268935.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Pune||Pune: A quiet Ganeshotsav as curbs span favourite fest||PUNE: The extension of the partial lockdown till the end of August clashes with this year’s Ganeshotsav which starts on August 22. But office bearers of the largest Ganesh mandals in the city said their plans for a scaled down celebration are on track, with significant social responsibility measures alongside. The lockdown extension has also thrown a spanner in the woks for residents who travel back to their home towns and villages particularly in the Konkan region to celebrate Ganeshotsav, as inter-district travel still remains restricted. “I am working in a small restaurant as cook in Raviwar Peth for the last 35 years. For Ganesh festival every year without fail I go to my hometown, Pawas, in the Konkan. But due to Covid restrictions, this year will be very difficult,” said Shankar Hinge. Some villages have also imposed local quarantine measures, which has made travel plans back to the Konkan near-impossible. “The service of the state transport still not open so I planned to travel in my own car but my villagers near Guhagar in Konkan decided on a 14-day quarantine before entering the village. I am working in private company so it is not possible for me to attend the festival this year,” Girish Sane, another Pune resident, added. Long-time observers of Ganeshotsav in the city say the pageantry and the crowds of the festival aside, the economic effects of the extended lockdown can be devastating for those depending on the festival for employment in various forms. “ASSOCHAM’s assessment about the economic impact of Ganeshotsav every year, which came out to around Rs 40,000 crore, throughout India. Due to the lockdown this year, I don’t think it shall be even 20% of that. There are artists, decorators, performers, and many others who will be largely unemployed this year. There are no sponsors or advertisements for the mandals, and there will be no processions either. This year, the mandals and the dhol tasha pathaks will focus on improving the lives of those on the frontlines and ones who are facing economic hardship,” said Anand Saraf, a Ganeshotsav expert, said. The Pune Festival, which organises cultural events during the Ganeshotsav, has cancelled all its events due to the lockdown, and said its own Ganeshotsav will be conducted in a “ritualistic manner”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/a-quiet-ganeshotsav-as-curbs-span-favourite-fest/articleshow/77271762.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
July 31, 2020||Pune||Industrialists stress need to stay the course||PUNE: Captains of industry and experts have welcomed the latest order allowing more businesses to reopen and stressed on the need to not deviate from this course. They said demand has been hit, causing consumers to lose confidence, whenever a fresh lockdown is imposed. “Many units are waiting for marco-level demand to to pick up before ramping up production and streamlining supply chains,” Prashant Girbane, director-general, MCCIA, said. As more segments open up, more people are looking to give their businesses an innovative jump-start. “The decision to reopen malls will give a much-needed boost to the retail industry in Maharashtra,” Rashmi Sen, chief operating officer for mall, Phoenix Mills, said. “This is a positive step towards ensuring that India’s consumption story is rekindled,” Sen added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/industrialists-stress-need-to-stay-the-course/articleshow/77271797.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Some private bus owners not to go on strike||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A group of private bus operators declared that they would continue services, while a strike has been announced by a section of private bus operators from August 1. Members of Kerala Bus Transport Association decided at a meeting on Thursday to continue bus services. The bus operators said that they cannot stop services due to financial crisis brought on by Covid-19. “Only a few buses under the organization are operating services due to Covid-19 restrictions. To protect the private bus operators going through financial crisis, the government should give us exemption from road tax and contribution to welfare fund,” said Johnson Padamadan, president of Kerala Bus Transport Association. “Some organizations declared to stop services from August 1 but it is not a right decision. In this period, private buses should be operating as many services as possible for the public, when they are choosing other modes of transport,” said M Gokuldas, secretary of the association. Kerala State Private Bus Operators Federation and All Kerala Bus Operators Organisation will not be operating bus services from August 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/some-pvt-bus-owners-not-to-go-on-strike/articleshow/77270245.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Mangaluru||Family members flout protocol while conducting last rites of Covid patient||MANGALURU: A Mangaluru family is in the eye of a storm after members conducted last rites of a Covid-19 fatality as per tradition, flouting protocol by allegedly bathing the body and allowing about 150 people to pay their last respects at Boloor crematorium. The fatality, an 80-year-old woman, was admitted to a private hospital with a complaint of fever on Sunday. As per protocol, hospital staff collected a throat swab sample for Covid-19 tests, but the woman died that evening. The hospital released the body to family members, contravening rules in existence at that time and the last rites were performed on Monday. Results on the woman’s samples now confirm she was infected by the virus. District health and family welfare officer Dr Ramachandra Bairy said the death was said to be because of cardiac disease, but the body was released without consulting the department. “They made a mistake, whether it was done knowingly or unknowingly is a separate issue. As per guidelines, bodies cannot be handed over until the Covid-19 test report is given,” Dr Bairy said. But the government issued fresh guidelines on Wednesday, which said bodies could be released even before Covid-19 test results are out. However, last rites should be conducted as per Covid-19 protocol. “So, in such a case, the body should have been handled like a Covid-19 victim,” Dr Bairy said. “No one is allowed to touch the body and it should be in a sealed body bag.” The new circular was issued to avoid mental agony of family members, who were previously made to wait interminably to take the body. On the Boloor incident, Dr Bairy said no complaint has been received so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/family-members-flout-protocol-while-conducting-last-rites-of-covid-patient/articleshow/77270243.cms||Vinobha K T
July 31, 2020||Pune||Pune: 6 attack health workers in Range Hills||PUNE: A medical officer and his team from the Ordnance Factory Hospital were attacked by six persons on Wednesday at the Ordnance Factory quarters in Khadki, when they went to collect swab samples from the relatives of a Covid-19 patient. The Khadki police later arrested all six people, including three women, under assault and other charges under Indian Penal Code. In his complaint, the medical officer alleged that the assailants hurled abuses at him and his team when they arrived in the area. When they tried to leave,the suspects attacked them, the complaint stated. The incident occurred at 10.30am on Wednesday. The patient had tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday and was sent to an isolation facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/6-attack-health-workers-in-range-hills/articleshow/77271850.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Surat||Textile units told to submit details on migrant workers daily||Surat: The state labour department has ordered all the textile units in Surat to submit detailed list of the migrant workers reporting on duty on daily basis.About 20 industrial estates housing powerloom weaving units, embroidery units and textile dyeing and processing units have been asked to prepare daily reports mentioning the name, mobile number, address of the migrant workers with the details on their antibody and antigen tests. According to the labour department’s order, it is mandatory to update the details of migrant workers on the official email id of the department on daily basis. The unit owners have been told to maintain register of the workers employed in their units. A senior officer in the labour department told TOI, “Violation of the order would invite action under Gujarat State Epidemic Disease Act, 1897 and Disaster Management Act against the unit owner.”Mayur Golwala, leader of powerloom industry told TOI, “Antibody and antigen tests of the migrant workers is going to be a costly affair for the powerloom weavers. The migrant workers, who had gone to their native places, are yet to return. But, once they start coming, there will be a deluge.”Ashish Gujarati, president of Pandesara Weavers Association said, “Less than 10% units have been able to restart post-lockdown. Even if the workers arrive in the city, it is going to be a difficult task for the unit owners to maintain their details as the units are yet to start.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/textile-units-told-to-submit-details-on-migrant-workers-daily/articleshow/77268968.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Kochi||5+3+3+4: Skills minus character?||KOCHI: The reforms in school education proposed by National Education Policy (NEP), 2020 receive mixed response from education experts, child psychiatrists, principals and teachers. While most of them welcomed it saying that the proposed 5+3+3+4 structure of school education is a progressive and scientific approach to education, many felt that the unusual focus on skill development and fun-based learning along with integration of academic, co-curricular and extra-curricular activities will prove ‘disastrous’ as it could degrade the quality of students. Those who supported NEP said new reforms to bring in vocation and internships in lower classes and focus on skill-based learning in curriculum will help children choose a career at an early age. Everyone was concerned about implementation challenges, especially the long timeline till 2035. Former diplomat TP Sreenivasan, who sought reforms in education, said new structure will bring students from anganwadis, pre-KG and KG into mainstream by formalizing their education. “Policies mentioned in NEP are trying to bring pre-school education into the mainstream. Till date, what these students study or not are not recorded or monitored, which has always been a challenge when they come for primary education. So, formalizing it is a positive move. There will be challenges in terms of creating a uniform syllabus and proper training for teachers. Moreover, 10 years will be too long for implementation as reforms are long overdue,” he said. Psychiatrist Philip John, also an adviser to CBSE, said present school education focuses on the promotion of human left brain activities like reading, writing and arithmetic and NEP will change this by inculcating the stimulation of right brain features like creative/technical skill, crafting, sports and arts from a young age. “Children do well when both parts of the brain come together for a particular task and it does not happen in current education. NEP aims to overcome this and allow students to express their talents in lower classes itself based on which they can decide the career they want. It will be skill-based or talent-based education. Implementation must be effective and trained teachers are inevitable to achieve the goal. Mainstreaming of KG is a welcome move as learning in these ages will be right-brain oriented,” he said. Opposing the decision, educationist Shajar Khan said NEP proposes an unscientific integration of academics and co-curriculum. “Instead of formalizing pre-KG/KG, NEP eliminates formal education from Classes I & II and the move will be a hindrance to their cognitive development. It is similar to what was envisaged through district primary education programme that failed miserably. Even in the stage of 5+3, formal learning is not starting which will deprive them of learning basic core concepts in language and numeracy. Vocational training in skills like carpentry, metal work, pottery-making for a student in Class VI is unscientific,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/5334-skills-minus-character/articleshow/77268936.cms||---
July 31, 2020||Kozhikode||Teacher education set for major overhaul||KOZHIKODE: National Education Policy has put forward many measures to overhaul the way the country’s teachers are trained, by proposing to gradually move teacher education programmes from teaching colleges to multidisciplinary colleges and universities by 2030. More importantly, minimum qualification for all teachers will be a four-year integrated BEd degree offered at the university level as a dual-degree (with specialized subject). Experts in teacher education feel that the proposals, if implemented in true spirit, will strengthen teacher education and improve quality. “Having four-year integrated BEd degree programme combining content, pedagogy and practical training with focus on specialized subject and education will ensure that only those genuinely interested in teaching pursue the degree. Now, many students who have nothing else to do are enrolling for BEd programmes,” said Prof C Naseema from Calicut University’s department of education. The policy says that two-year BEd can be offered for those who have already obtained bachelor’s degrees in specialized subjects.  It says BEd programmes may also be replaced or suitably adapted to one-year BEd programmes for those who have completed the equivalent of four-year multi-disciplinary degrees or who have obtained a master’s degree and wish to become a teacher in that specialty. The draft report said that there are approximately 17,000 teacher education institutions in India, of which over 92% are privately owned. It said that various in-depth studies – including the Justice J S Verma Commission constituted by the SC–have shown that a large proportion of these teaching colleges are not even attempting to provide a good education. They are functioning as commercial shops where degrees are essentially available for a price. The policy has also called for rigorous clean-up of teacher education saying that India should have educationally sound teacher preparation programmes in operation and all others must be shut down. Dean of education at Central University of Kerala Mohammedunni Alias Musthafa said that due to the standalone status of teacher education, many job seekers are considering teaching profession as a last career resort. “Having integrated B.Ed. will enable those with genuine talent and aptitude for teaching to undertake teacher education along with subject specialization,” he added. He added that the challenge will be to ensure that the integrated BEd programmes (currently run in multidisciplinary colleges) will get the same gravity and rigor as in stand-alone institutions or whether it will be considered as one of the other bachelor programmes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/teacher-education-set-for-major-overhaul/articleshow/77268952.cms||K R Rajeev
July 31, 2020||Goa||Goa: Cancer patients struggle with lack of facilities at Covid hospital||“My 65-year-old father is a diabetic with high blood pressure, and his sugar level would sometimes shoot over the roof, mostly during the odd hours of the night. On one such occasion, we had to wait until daybreak for the doctor to arrive and treat his condition.” “My 68-year old mother is a cancer patient, and also suffers from other life-threatening conditions. Though she is being treated for her Covid infection, I am worried that management of her underlying conditions may get neglected.” Notwithstanding the laudable work put in by frontline healthcare workers at the ESI-Covid hospital in Margao, the above two cases — one of a patient who has since recovered and been discharged, the other of one undergoing treatment — project a picture of the inadequacies affecting the patient care system for those with comorbid conditions. The state has seen 43 Covid-19 deaths so far, of which 34 occurred at the Covid hospital. Of these 34, over 88% — or 30 — were found to have had comorbidities or underlying medical conditions such as diabetes, high blood pressure, heart problem or a kidney ailment. While the government has been quick to defend the spurt in deaths to the patients’ comorbid conditions, governor Satya Pal Malik found the defence unconvincing, and had recently even given chief minister Pramod Sawant a piece of his mind. Malik also underscored the need for comprehensive treatment for patients with comorbidities. “If a cancer patient gets Covid and it sent to the Covid hospital, he is treated with paracetamol tablets,” Malik had told TOI. “This cannot continue. I have given clear instructions to the government to treat patients with comorbidities properly and not put them under a similar treatment like the other patients.” The issue has again come to the fore after Shirley (name changed to protect identity), daughter of a cancer patient, wrote to health authorities pointing out how her mother’s medical history and advanced cancer necessitated a treatment regimen that is specific to her underling conditions. “Her medical condition requires that she is seen by a team of oncologists and general medicine practitioners besides Covid doctors, before a specific line of treatment for her is decided,” she told TOI. “However, this cannot be done at the ESI hospital owing to the severely-inadequate doctor-patient ratio. Consequently, patients remain unattended, especially at a time when their condition suddenly worsens, as in the case of cancer patients in advanced stages.” Sources at ESI, however, said that there should be no problem if a consultant wishes to visit the patient on request, provided all Covid protocols are followed. State health secretary Nila Mohanan stressed that patients with comorbid conditions were always given “top priority” at the Covid hospital. “Many chronic kidney patients have been given dialysis regularly, and are continuing to get it,” she told TOI. “Heart patients have been checked by senior consultants from GMC as and when the need has arisen. Chemotherapy is not something that can be done at a non-cancer specialty hospital, and so that is not being done. Generally, all aggressive chemotherapy is kept on hold during the acute active phase of Covid.” Shirley, nevertheless, has suggested that in order to ensure some degree of comfort to patients with comorbid conditions, they be categorized based on the degree of their severity, and housed in a separate ward with a team of dedicated doctors working round-the-clock in shifts. “They need to put in place a setup for Covid patients with comorbidities that would ensure the best of comfort and care for them,” she said. In her letter, which she also copied to health minister Vishwajit Rane, she also pointed out that owing to insufficient patient attendants at the Covid hospital, immobile patients — who need assistance even for personal hygiene — suffer the most. Chief minister Pramod Sawant, after visiting the ESI hospital on Tuesday, had said that a crunch in paramedical and housekeeping staff, coupled with reluctance of the patients’ kin to stay in the hospital to care for them, meant stretching the workload on existing staff to the limit, thereby affecting service quality. He also said that the patients at the hospital would be able to get personalised care if their kin stayed with them at the hospital or arranged a private attendant. “It has been observed that Covid patients who do not have other underlying illnesses are recovering quickly, but the condition of those with comorbidities deteriorates faster,” said a senior health department official. “It’s imperative that our focus should now shift towards comorbid patients to reduce the death rate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cancer-patients-struggle-with-lack-of-facilities-at-covid-hosp/articleshow/77271869.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
