05-11-2020||Editorials||Delhi’s ban on fire crackers is welcome||The Delhi government on Thursday imposed a complete ban on the sale and bursting of all fire crackers, including green crackers, from November 7 to 30, after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal reviewed the worsening air pollution and the Covid-19 situation in the city. After a meeting with senior officials, Mr Kejriwal said that Covid-19 cases have increased due to the festival season and air pollution. On Thursday, Delhi woke up to severe air pollution, with the air quality index (AQI) touching 452. AQI between 401 and 500 is considered to be severe, which can impact healthy people and seriously affect those with existing health conditions. On November 4, the National Green Tribunal had exhorted the Union and Delhi governments to take a similar step. The Delhi government’s move is welcome because the air pollution situation in the coming days is expected to worsen. The smog-like conditions have developed because of air pollution, low wind speed and cold air subsidence, and the situation is unlikely to change. The wind speed will remain low in the coming days; the crop residue burning is due to peak, according to an analysis (2017-2020) by Climate Trends, and Diwali is on November 14. While wind speed and the city’s location cannot be controlled, and cracking down on farm fires depends on how well the monitoring system performs, Diwali-related pollution can be tackled if there is both government action, and more importantly, public will. And by taking this bold step, the government has shown that it means business. Now the public must support the decision unreservedly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/delhi-s-ban-on-fire-crackers-is-welcome/story-UulG03Ar3HeDoiQFagVTMP.html
05-11-2020||Editorials||What the Bihar campaign shows||As the political campaigning for Bihar’s assembly polls concluded on Thursday, the state offered a reminder of how campaigns have the potential to alter the course of elections. They reveal the key messages being pushed out by the parties in the fray; they highlight the strengths — and the weaknesses — of leaders; they can introduce to voters a new agenda for governance; they become a key mechanism through which citizens are able to articulate their grievances and aspirations, and provide feedback to candidates and leaders about priorities; and they offer a glimpse into changing social relations between wider caste and religious groups. Bihar’s election campaign did all of the above. And it is even more remarkable that this happened in the middle of the pandemic when campaigning was not easy. So what is it that, irrespective of the outcome, the nature of the Bihar campaign suggests? One, it has brought to the centre the salience of the employment question — throwing open the possibility of a closer link between political and economic performance. The next elected government in Bihar will realise that unless it can deliver on job creation for the millions of citizens who otherwise have to flee the state in desperate circumstances, its own political survival will be at stake. Two, the campaign has also shown the efforts of political parties not just to retain their base but to expand this base beyond conventional support groups. This is reflected both in ticket distribution and the vocabulary employed in the rallies. This is a good sign for it shows that instead of speaking only for narrow segments, and putting castes against each other in what often ends up becoming a zero sum game, both society and politics is evolving to a point where wider, inclusive platforms are necessary. Third, the campaign has also opened up the question of generational transition in heartland politics. In Uttar Pradesh, this process had commenced with the elevation of Akhilesh Yadav as chief minister (CM) in 2012 and the emergence of Yogi Adityanath in 2017, but in Bihar, it is the leaders who got socialised in the 1960s and 1970s who remain dominant. Once again, irrespective of who becomes CM, it is clear that a new generation is now ready to take over. And finally, the campaign has revealed that voters are keeping a close eye and past record is no substitute for consistent performance, for all governments seeking a renewed term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/what-the-bihar-campaign-shows/story-OxiJVSTFAtyMga5ZYjaN8M.html
05-11-2020||Editorials||A legitimacy crisis in the US | HT Editorial||The next United States (US) president will be decided through a counting process that is likely to continue through this week and, in turn, likely to end up in the courts. The electoral college system used to select the country’s chief executive, in which a majority win in each state results in all the electoral votes of the states being awarded to one candidate, means the final verdict will boil down to three or four states which will count their numbers cautiously. Knowing that late ballots are postal and mostly blue, President Donald Trump has restarted his warnings of election fraud. One element of the Republican Party strategy envisaged a legal attempt to disqualify ballots counted after Election Day. Mr Trump has decided to go ahead with this unethical, unconstitutional, and legally dubious path.Democrats, looking at the consistent, if slim, polling leads in most battleground states for Joe Biden, had hoped for a decisive victory that would have pre-empted any legal challenge. But the hopes for a deep blue wave dissolved into a series of shallow, purplish puddles. The US electorate has revealed itself to be marked by even more fault lines than before. Initial results show a more pronounced shift by suburban middle-class Americans to the Democratic Party, while the few White workers who voted blue in 2016 have all but disappeared. The Democrats found their minority voting bloc is splintering with Mr Biden pulling in a record low number of Latino voters for his party. Mr Trump, on other hand, seems to have lost favour with women voters of all varieties.This election may result in the worst of all worlds — a weak and disunited States of America. No matter who wins, Mr Trump or Mr Biden will serve for only four years in the White House, meaning they will be lame ducks quite early into their terms. The Democrats will control the lower house but the Senate will be evenly divided. The judiciary is firmly on the Right. All this means the next US president will be hemmed in by other arms of government, especially when bipartisanship is all but dead. Mr Trump has signalled his second term will be about settling scores more than realising a national vision. The US will be a house divided with a leader seen as illegitimate by half his people, no matter who wins.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-legitimacy-crisis-in-the-us-ht-editorial/story-CPNfcBYBG7Yo5oV8SeFzVL.html
05-11-2020||Editorials||Arnab Goswami’s arrest is troubling | HT Editorial||There can be no ifs, buts, or qualifications: The arrest of journalist Arnab Goswami by Mumbai Police is wrong. It sends the signal that it’s fine to harass journalists. It also sets a dangerous trend and could encourage other police departments and state governments to do the same. The context — and there is one — is irrelevant. The history of the deteriorating relationship between Mr Goswami and the Mumbai police and the Maharashtra government does not matter. The quality of his journalism — always a subjective call — matters even less. Whether or not we like Mr Goswami and his style of journalism matters the least. Nor is this time for anyone to relish the irony (as some have done on social media) of Mumbai Police arresting, without reasonable or sufficient cause, a journalist who has often asked for the arrest of people without reasonable or sufficient cause. This is one of those issues where there can only be one side. It is wrong.No one, including journalists, is above the law — but the operative term there is the law. Everything needs to be done according to the law. In this case, for instance, Mr Goswami could have been summoned (he is sure to have complied with the summons). Reports that his family being manhandled — if true — only exacerbate the wrong. Support for Mr Goswami has poured in from all quarters, and reactions have been immediate. The Editors Guild issued a strong statement. And several political leaders, including the home minister and the information and broadcasting minister, have condemned the attack on “press freedom” and a “free press”. That is a good position to take — consistently and irrespective of the specifics of the journalist/media organisation and government involved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/arnab-goswami-s-arrest-is-troubling-ht-editorial/story-AKlSrzjPtAVlnBUvkbD30J.html
