12-11-2020||Editorials||Students need help. DU must step up | HT Editorial||On November 2, an undergraduate student of Delhi University (DU)’s Lady Shri Ram (LSR) College for Women died by suicide. Her family said the girl took the drastic step because she had to return home to Telangana after classes were suspended due to Covid-19 and her parents, who work in the informal sector, could not afford a laptop for online classes. She had also received a message from the college, asking her to vacate hostel accommodation. She knew her family could not pay for expensive private hostel facilities.With Covid-19, students have been under tremendous stress, across different educational tiers, because of the abrupt transition to digital learning. In India, thousands of poor students see education as a passport to better lives and social mobility, and this sudden disruption has put an extra financial burden on their families. Indian campuses also lack adequate counselling services, and the pandemic has exposed how this lack of a support system can impact students, especially those who come from marginalised backgrounds and have little to no support systems and mentoring facilities at home.This year, as a report in this newspaper revealed, many DU colleges have received more than the usual number of applications for fee waivers from students, indicating the depth of the crisis. DU colleges have said that they are scaling up their outreach programmes. While this is an excellent step, eight months into the crisis, they should have put in place a system to ensure digital devices, internet connections and counselling services for vulnerable students. DU has access to funds, a strong alumni base and human resources; colleges should leverage these effectively and ensure that students tide over this crisis with minimum pain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/students-need-help-du-must-step-up-ht-editorial/story-ULwmZFLZXfC5ALoVKzYSJM.html
12-11-2020||Editorials||On China, stick to the redlines | HT Editorial||India and China continue to inch forward in their attempts to bring an end to their continuing border confrontation — or at least reduce tensions before winter sets in fully, and postpone a solution until next spring. If the latest news reports are to be believed, negotiations are moving slowly along an upward incline. Beijing had first argued Indian troops should withdraw from their forward positions along the Chushul ridge in return for Chinese troops doing nothing at all. It has since moved to the view that an Indian withdrawal would be matched by a Chinese pull back to their original positions at Finger 8 of Pangong Tso — but minus India’s right to patrol up to Finger 8.This is a positive development — the Chinese at least accept they have to walk back from their present positions if they expect the same of the Indians. But there remains a yawning gap between what Beijing is offering and what New Delhi should be prepared to accept. One, there is no question of India returning to its status quo ante position without China, at a minimum, doing the same. Two, given that China is the aggressor, it should be trying to restore trust and India need not fully reciprocate every Chinese action. For example, a residual monitoring post along Chushul ridge or increased patrolling rights between Finger 4 and 8 would be reasonable given Beijing’s trampling of earlier border agreements.India should also stick to its economic approach of reducing dependence on China. There is no reason for India to enable large-scale Chinese digital presence in its economy, especially when there is zero confidence that China would not misuse India data or shutdown systems if it penetrated the core of India’s 21st century economy. Steps to reduce the Chinese presence in government procurement and infrastructure should continue. The merits of slowly reducing the Chinese economic footprint and positioning India as an alternative manufacturing site are overwhelming, even though this transition will take time, as indicated by the surging sales of Chinese-made cellphones during the Diwali season. India and China must and should continue to seek to decouple from each other along the border, but Delhi must stick to its redlines. At the same time, it should continue with the economic decoupling, which will inflict the greatest pain on China and be crucial to India’s future economic path.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/on-china-stick-to-the-redlines-ht-editorial/story-8Dyq1YfsUhCm4kpCOeiR8K.html
12-11-2020||Editorials||The rise of Asaduddin Owaisi||In one of the more surprising dimensions of the Bihar outcome, Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen — originally a small party with roots in the Old City in Hyderabad — has won five seats in the assembly. Mr Owaisi has been making a concerted effort to expand his party’s base in Bihar’s Seemanchal region, particularly Kishanganj — which has an overwhelming Muslim majority — for over five years now. It won a by-poll in the region last year, but has emerged as a major force this time around. Mr Owaisi is a controversial figure. While he speaks the language of constitutionalism and seeks rights for Muslims and other marginalised groups, his party has often engaged in extremist rhetoric and even hate speech. But what explains his growing popularity, with his party winning seats in places as varied as Maharashtra and Bihar? Muslims in India, after the trauma of Partition, have been sceptical of solely identity-based political formations and have invested their lot with secular formations and stuck to the democratic mainstream. But the rise of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has led to greater alienation — the inability of the older “secular” parties to fight the BJP, and increasing disillusionment with these forces, has also led to a search for alternatives. Those criticising Mr Owaisi for “cutting” the votes of other Opposition parties are doing a disservice to Indian democracy, for he is as entitled to participate and contest elections as any other formation. On his part, Mr Owaisi must consistently ensure that his party remains wedded to the plural, peaceful, democratic, constitutional path and doesn’t engage in minority communalism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-rise-of-asaduddin-owaisi/story-QsjmAZG6pBjFpUwTGxjCmM.html
12-11-2020||Editorials||The BJP marks its dominance||In the past year, there has been increasing commentary over the declining political fortunes of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). This view gained ground due to electoral setbacks or the party’s failure to form the government in a set of states (Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Delhi); protest movements against the government’s measures (for instance, the citizenship-related protests); the economic contraction and the humanitarian distress caused by the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19; and the desertion of allies (for instance, the Akali Dal over the farm bills). But the results in Bihar — where the BJP has emerged as the senior partner in the National Democratic Alliance and will hold the real levers of power — and in by-polls across the country — the BJP won 41 of the 59 seats where elections were held — shows, once again, how observers got it wrong. The BJP has decisively reinforced its dominance in Indian politics.Both in Bihar and in the different states, which saw by-polls, local factors played an important role in shaping results. In by-polls, incumbent governments have an edge. And there has, indeed, been an increasing trend towards voters separating their choices in state and national polls. All of this should introduce a cautionary note in reading the results. Yet, there is no doubt that the BJP’s success indicates that the party still enjoys the support of vast segments of the electorate. This can be attributed to three key factors. The first is obvious — Prime Minister Narendra Modi evokes trust. This trust appears to be based on voters judging the PM’s intent — for instance, few blame him for imposing the lockdown, and recognise that it appeared the best option at that time — and appreciating the government’s welfare delivery. While the provision of homes, toilets, gas cylinders, and income transfers to farmers were recognised as factors in the 2019 win, not enough attention has been paid to the welfare measures introduced in the wake of the pandemic, from free ration to distribution of gas cylinders at no cost to benefits for the vulnerable. The second factor is the lack of faith voters still have in the Opposition’s ability to deliver better governance or resolve everyday issues. And finally, it is a testament to the BJP’s formidable organisational network, feedback systems, and the ability to ensure its narrative reaches every home that explains its success. The party has shown once again that its inroads are far deeper than often assumed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-bjp-marks-its-dominance/story-AqI9ftDQTN62k2ubXsQs6J.html
