16-11-2020||Editorials||Managing the crisis in Delhi | HT Editorial||Delhi is in the middle of a serious public health crisis. Covid-19 has passed through various stages in the National Capital over the last nine months — but the third wave has happened amidst a predictable set of factors. Winter is more hospitable for the virus; festivities have enhanced mass interactions; there has been — bluntly put — reckless behaviour on the part of citizens, either due to fatigue or complacency; testing tilted towards the quick antigen tests rather than the more reliable RT-PCR mechanism, which undermined the ability to track and isolate cases; and the poor air quality hasn’t helped. All of this has led to a consistent spike in cases, with the Delhi government deeply worried about the management of the disease.It is against this backdrop that the Centre’s intervention — led by home minister Amit Shah — has infused a greater sense of urgency. To the credit of both governments, even though there was some jostling over who deserves greater appreciation, the Centre and Delhi government worked well together in dealing with the enhanced number of cases in the past. Mr Shah has now taken a spate of decisions, from improving medical infrastructure and enhancing hospital beds for patients with severe symptoms to doubling testing (it is important that the greater ratio of tests are RT-PCR and not antigen tests) and closer monitoring of those in home isolation. There are also murmurs of a partial reimposition of restrictions — though not a lockdown — in Delhi if the case count continues on the same trajectory.All of this is essential. But at the core, while the government has do its bit and ensure greater testing to track cases and adequate infrastructure to save lives, there is a great responsibility on citizens. As repetitive as this may sound, there is no alternative to limiting movement to essential activities, wearing masks, maintaining physical distance, and washing hands. This must happen voluntarily for both self-preservation and collective good. It is quite staggering to see people act against their self-interest. And if this persists, restrictions will inevitably come into force with great costs for the economy and livelihoods yet again. The Centre has done well to step in; the Delhi government must take all the help it can get and focus on implementing decisions under its remit; and citizens must reform their behaviour or be ready for more disruption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/managing-the-crisis-in-delhi-ht-editorial/story-PbLGWYh1yobS98tz1qudYK.html
16-11-2020||Editorials||India’s trade policy: Keep China out | HT Editorial||The prime directive in India’s trade policy today is simple — sign nothing that opens the door to Chinese products. That is why New Delhi turned its back on the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) trade agreement, which was signed this weekend. India will pay a price in terms of global credibility. It is rare for a country to walk out of a free trade agreement (FTA) which it engaged with from the moment of inception. Yet, it is a powerful signal that India henceforth will adhere to a strategic trade policy that breaks with its past ad hoc mix of generous market access and arbitrary protectionism. And all of this comes with minimal economic costs as India has FTAs with all but three RCEP members.Any new trade policy, admittedly, remains a road under construction. Over the next few years, the Narendra Modi government must show it has an alternative trade strategy and the capacity to implement it. Some elements of a new policy are evident. One, the spadework for new bilateral trade deals with the United States, the United Kingdom and others that emphasise forward-looking areas such as digital sectors and immigration has begun. Two, India has joined nascent bodies such as the Supply Chain Resilience Initiative and begun holding talks for technology-investment coalitions in 5G telecom and pharmaceuticals. All these have the same principle in common — they exclude China. India’s new external economic policy is far from perfect. Its new bilateral investment draft treaty has no serious takers. On the other hand, many of its new domestic economic reforms mesh squarely with a 21st-century trade strategy. But the shadow of RCEP will only go away when India’s new trade posture results in something tangible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/india-s-trade-policy-keep-china-out/story-pgdrfiOt0Roo9dzLkLn3bL.html
16-11-2020||Editorials||Diwali pollution: Delhi-NCR exhibits irresponsibility, again | HT Editorial||On Diwali (Saturday), citizens of the Delhi-National Capital Region (NCR) area made a mockery of the National Green Tribunal (NGT)’s ban on the sale and use of all kinds of firecrackers in the region and health warnings by doctors (including the fact that there is a high risk of pollution exacerbating Covid-19) by bursting polluting crackers without any concern for fellow citizens or the environment. This activity and stubble burning had an immediate impact on the air quality index: It dipped to “severe” across the region on Saturday night. On Sunday, the weather improved with both wind speed and direction dispersing pollutants rapidly.On November 9, NGT banned the sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in NCR from November 9 to 30, saying “celebration by crackers is for happiness and not to celebrate deaths and diseases”. This show of open defiance by citizens underlines two challenges: One, the governments of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana either don’t have the desire or the wherewithal (or both) to implement such a ban, and tackle overall pollution. And, second, the repeated warnings on the ill effects of pollution on health, have still not had the desired impact on citizen consciousness. This irresponsible streak was also visible in the crowds in the run-up to the festival, which is contributing to Delhi’s third wave of the pandemic. If both governments and citizens are so lackadaisical about air pollution and its ill effects, even in the midst of a raging climate crisis and a pandemic, the Delhi-NCR region will struggle to get the clean, blue skies, good air, and the quality of life that it should aspire to.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/diwali-pollution-delhi-ncr-exhibits-irresponsibility-again/story-mV0WMZkfUShocGF7NMRaRK.html
