19-11-2020||Editorials||Balance self-reliance with engagement||In a significant policy speech earlier this week — in the backdrop of India staying out of the just-signed Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership — external affairs minister S Jaish-ankar laid out the government’s outlook towards globalisation. He acknowledged that India had benefited from opening up in the last three decades. But Mr Jaishankar had reservations about the terms of this engagement, and argued that in the absence of a strong industrial base, and lack of adequate attention to domestic reforms and manufacturing, India had also lost out. It is somewhat paradoxical that a minister in what can be termed a government that leans towards the Right has articulated a position that resembles that of the Left. Ever since India opened up, it was the economists on the Left who warned against its implications on domestic capital and labour. But Mr Jaishankar is not arguing for a return to autarkic ways. He is, instead, borrowing from market economists to suggest a next generation of reforms. He is guided by the strategic environment — where the West is turning inwards and China’s predatory trading practices have devastated local markets — and the need to strengthen India’s economic defences, both in manufacturing and new digital technologies. This is a balanced approach – but it is tough to execute. India cannot expect to be an export powerhouse if it closes itself to imports. It cannot expect the world to rely on it if it chooses to rely only on itself. And to build domestic strengths, it has to deepen external economic engagement too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/balance-self-reliance-with-engagement/story-SeDEFxZptcIXJHcuHMgE9H.html
19-11-2020||Editorials||Modi-Biden lay out a road map | HT Editorial||Great powers have too many interests to ever agree with each other on all policy fronts. This is doubly true when one of the powers is the United States (US). The goal is to ensure a Venn diagram where the area of convergence is large and growing and the other parts are marginal and shrinking. The one reason India and the US have seen a steady improvement in relations over four administrations is that the list of common interests has kept increasing. Given the chalk and cheese differences between presidents Donald Trump and Joe Biden, this formula will be tested in the coming months.It is reassuring that Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s tweet about his phone conversation with Mr Biden immediately laid out three areas with the greatest potential for bilateral cooperation. The first is the Covid-19 pandemic. Much of this already exists at the commercial and scientific level but can be infused with governmental support. The second, and one with considerable long-term potential, is climate. PM Modi is committed to move India to a green energy trajectory but needs international support in terms of finance and technology. Mr Biden has to not only reverse Mr Trump’s damage to global climate efforts but also move the US to the vanguard of the battle against carbon. On the multilateral track, there is a smorgasbord of climate policies that the two can work on, including looking beyond the Paris Accord and strengthening Indian initiatives such as the International Solar Alliance. Finally, India and the US need to share notes on their visions of the Indo-Pacific — shorthand for how to handle an openly aggressive China. It is in this policy area where Mr Biden’s views are haziest. He and his advisers accept China is a strategic competitor. The devil, however, is in the tactical details and Mr Biden’s seeming preference for non-military responses to China is questionable.The flip side is that areas of differences are almost certain to arise. Mr Biden’s trade policy will differ from Mr Trump’s only in terms of tone rather than substance. Delhi is braced for lectures on inclusivity and Kashmir from the other side. The best way to keep these problem areas on the margins of the relationship is for both governments to work hard to ensure the areas of cooperation generate tangible results. Strategic partnerships work best if they generate a return on investment in the policy space.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/modi-biden-lay-out-a-road-map-ht-editorial/story-fVwylsc1MQwG0VyfaEJOKN.html
19-11-2020||Editorials||In the Congress, the lack of ideological clarity | HT Editorial||With the defeat in the Bihar assembly elections, dissenters in the Congress have once again spoken of the need to introspect, expedite internal organisational reforms, and settle the question of leadership — where Rahul Gandhi is in charge in practice but not in theory (because he does not want to assume formal charge of the presidency), and other aspirants are not quite sure whether the Nehru-Gandhi family is in or out. But while settling the question of leadership through organisational elections is imperative, there is another area that should worry the party— its ideological confusion.Two recent incidents have highlighted this gulf within the party. On the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership, a section of the Congress leadership appears to believe that India has made a mistake by staying out, while others claim this is a vindication of the Congress’s stand. On Kashmir, while the party opposed the effective nullification of Article 370 in Parliament, it is reluctant to demand its restoration (as the Gupkar alliance has done) for the fear of losing votes in the rest of the country — but the fear of being seen as B-team of the Bharatiya Janata Party and Mr Gandhi’s ideological opposition to the Centre’s measure also means that the party cannot quite support the move either.Having a diversity of views within a political formation has its strengths. But it is clear that on key questions of national security, economic policy, and occasionally even domestic political issues, the Congress is hesitant to either articulate or own a position consistently. This is often because it is torn between its own ideological moorings and tactical considerations — in the process, it may neither remain true to itself nor be able to win over voters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/in-the-congress-the-lack-of-ideological-clarity-ht-editorial/story-NixJrcbSoObnm0oucs8mOO.html
