20-11-2020||Editorials||Why Bengal 2021 matters | HT Editorial||With its return to power in Bihar in alliance with the Janata Dal (United), the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has turned its attention to the next set of state elections. In early 2021, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Kerala, and most significantly, West Bengal will hold elections. The BJP hopes to retain power in Assam where it will find the discourse around the Citizenship (Amendment) Act — local political sentiment sees it as the legitimising of “outsiders” — a challenge. The party will seek to expand its footprint in Kerala and Tamil Nadu (where it has a behind-the-scenes understanding with the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam), but it is aware that winning is not on the cards — in both these states, the BJP has been historically weak, and identity politics is complicated. But its main focus will be Bengal.Bengal matters to the BJP because it is the one eastern Indian state where it has never — except in the last Lok Sabha elections — been able to make substantial inroads. The State was first a bastion of the Left — the key ideological adversary of the BJP — and now the Trinamool Congress, arguably the most important regional adversary of the BJP. Winning here will not just symbolically reinforce the BJP’s position as a national party across geographies, but also allow it to forcefully implement its ideological and political agenda, gain Rajya Sabha seats over time, make eastern India truly saffron, accumulate political capital for the rest of the term till 2024 and demoralise the Opposition. But it faces a formidable adversary in Trinamool and Mamata Banerjee. The outcome of the election will hinge on five factors. One, as the BJP projects itself as a party of change, the extent of anti-incumbency against Ms Banerjee will be a key variable. Two, religious polarisation will affect voting patterns, with the BJP accusing Ms Banerjee of “minority appeasement” and pushing the CAA plank to win over Hindu voters. Three, whether the other forces — the Left, the Congress, and possibly Asaduddin Owaisi’s formation — split the anti-Trinamool vote (thus benefiting the incumbent) or anti-BJP vote (thus benefiting the challenger) will matter. Four, which way the voters tilt on leadership if the battle is framed as a Narendra Modi versus Mamata Banerjee contest will have a role. And finally, and unfortunately, the ground level political violence — often aided by the state government in power — will affect sentiment and voting. India’s political focus will turn east in 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/why-bengal-2021-matters-ht-editorial/story-zGUdDhfmU4vtZ2X7PHgiPM.html
20-11-2020||Editorials||Build a vaccine architecture||Rarely have the worlds of science, public health, economy and global balance of power intersected as they have in times of Covid-19. And rarely has so much hinged on a single variable — the development of a vaccine, or a set of vaccines, to provide immunity to every individual across the world from Sars-CoV-2. The good news is that the worst may be behind us: The world is close to a vaccine breakthrough. Pfizer and Moderna have achieved a high degree of efficacy — at over 90%, it is much safer than initially assumed — using radical technologies which have the potential to tackle other critical diseases. There are other vaccines too, many at the third stage of trial, with a high possibility of success. All of this means that by early next year, the world will have a basket of vaccine options on the menu to choose from. Health minister Harsh Vardhan said, on Thursday, that a vaccine will be available in three to four months and that India has made arrangements to vaccinate 250-300 million people in the first phase. But the science is only one element of the vaccine development. The politics of the vaccine — especially as major powers seek to derive geopolitical advantage from it or nationalism prevails over collective good — will matter. The procurement of vaccines, especially for India, will hinge on agreements it is able to strike both bilaterally and multilaterally — while leveraging its own domestic production capacity. The storage and distribution of vaccines will hinge on embarking on a comprehensive partnership using public infrastructure and collaborating with private sector players — the fact that India has experience, both in its elections and vaccination programmes, to scale up is useful. The prioritisation of the vaccine — all citizens cannot be vaccinated simultaneously, given the limitations of immediate production, the scale of dosage required and logistical challenges involved — will require hard choices to be made; the health minister stated that frontline workers and the elderly will be prioritised, as they should. And most critically, the affordability of vaccines will matter — it would be wisest for the government to pay up and provide it either free of cost or at deeply subsidised rates for the population, given that this will not just save lives, but act as the single-most important stimulus to bring the economy back on track.Tracking and building each element of the vaccine architecture should be the single-most important governance priority over the next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/build-a-vaccine-architecture/story-ANDGPoB0NIRfyhLvT1AV1I.html
