23-11-2020||Editorials||The BJP focuses on the local | HT Editorial||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s stated aim is to win elections from Parliament to the Panchayat. While a lot of attention is paid to the party’s strategy and success in national elections, its organisational machinery that helps convert support to votes, and the careful branding of Narendra Modi as the leader who is committed to India’s national interests, there is often inadequate attention to how the party builds its strength from the local to the national. Two recent episodes show the extraordinary importance the BJP gives to the local — confirming the adage that all politics is, eventually, local. In Jammu and Kashmir, where district elections are scheduled, the BJP has invested tremendous energy and resources in ensuring that it registers a respectable presence. This is important for the party — and the government — to show that its constitutional changes in the Union Territory have popular sanction as well as build its own independent strength in the region. At the other end of the country, in Telangana, for local civic polls in Hyderabad, the BJP has deputed its powerful general secretary Bhupender Yadav— who is in charge of crucial states such as Gujarat and Bihar — to oversee the party’s effort, besides sending ministers to campaign. With four parliamentarians from the state and two state legislators in the assembly, the party sees an opportunity to position itself as the principal opposition to chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao; Telangana is also a key target for the 2024 polls since it is among the regions the BJP believes it can expand its numerical strength. All of this is happening in the backdrop of party president JP Nadda about to embark on a 100-day tour of all states to strengthen the party. There are three clear lessons from this visible energy that the BJP is investing in even local polls. One, every region — irrespective of the party’s historical weakness or its demography — is on the party’s radar; and it is willing to work hard and invest energy in expanding its base. Two, the party recognises — and this may also spring from the focus the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh has on grassroots work — that the route of capturing power at the state level is often through winning battles on the ground, on issues that are closest to citizens. And finally, it is a lesson for other parties — both national and regional — that politics is a 24/7 job, and every election matters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-bjp-focuses-on-the-local/story-vD5m87aDcHuvrjTmPARgFP.html
23-11-2020||Editorials||Planning for a post-Covid world | HT Editorial||The Group of Twenty (G20) ended its annual summit without deliverables, but with a sense that global leaders have begun shifting their gaze to a post-Covid-19 world. The G20 has been largely missing in action through much of the pandemic. The inability to have physical interactions inhibited genuine diplomatic outreach. More dama-ging was the every-government-for-itself scramble that followed the outbreak, something that left little space for the spirit of multilateralism. The hostility between the two most powerful nations, the United States and China, did not make summitry easier. In any summit, participants reach out to their domestic public as well as lay out an agenda for their fellow world leaders. Outgoing US President Donald Trump’s decision to play golf during a special session on Covid-19 was a crude message for his pandemic-denying base at home. But there was positivity in the manner the summit members spoke of the future. There was the expected noise on vaccine distri-bution, debt relief and the need to coordinate economic responses to the ailing world economy. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s important intervention was to underline the need to put climate change front and centre of the global agenda. Over the next few G20 summits many of these abstractions need to be converted into concrete steps. The G20’s strength is its ability to bring to bear the attention and resources of the most-powerful governments on the most-difficult global issues. Ensuring the revival of cooperation over global financial architecture, supply chain stability and climate will be the task of future hosts, including India, which has moved its chairmanship to 2023.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/planning-for-a-post-covid-world/story-XxsHbpEabWHpRqfnRNWmsN.html
