24-11-2020||Editorials||Getting ready for the vaccine | HT Editorial||In his comments at a meeting with chief ministers to discuss Covid-19, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi underlined, rightly so, the need to take precautions which will help prevent the spread of the disease. In recent weeks, a range of factors — the most important of which is the fact that citizens have been reckless in their movement, interaction, and visits to crowded places — have contributed to a spike in Covid-19 cases across states. The fact that India’s health infrastructure is today better equipped to cope with the pandemic, there is an established medical protocol to deal with the disease, and the country has had — for reasons that are still not clear — a low fatality rate is positive. But the PM’s cautionary note is important to save lives and states must strive towards his target — a positivity rate less than five per cent — till the vaccine is ready to be distributed. And that, indeed, was the other focus of the PM’s speech. He suggested that the government was on top of understanding the stages of vaccine development both domestically and internationally, and was in touch with foreign governments, companies as well as multilateral organisations. He emphasised the commitment to ensure that each citizens receives the vaccine and urged states to come up with comprehensive plans, including cold storage facilities, to ensure its distribution. But the PM also, once again, expressed caution. Vaccines must be scientifically vetted before any final decision is taken; there isn’t clarity on the number of doses that will be required; and there is also an absence of clarity on the costs of the vaccines. This tentativeness is actually a positive signal. While claiming that it is preparing a vaccine strategy, the government is also clear that it does not have all the answers — yet. Indeed, this has been the most severe challenge to policymaking in times of the pandemic. How do you take appropriate decisions in the absence of full information and a fog of uncertainty? The good news is that with Pfizer (which health minister Harsh Vardhan has suggested may not be appropriate for Indian conditions), Moderna, Oxford-Astrazenaca-Serum Institute, and now Sputnik V showing high rates of efficacy, India will have options. The challenge is to procure, store, prioritise, distribute, and ensure that every Indian is equipped to battle the most disruptive health challenge in recent times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/getting-ready-for-the-vaccine/story-3iQTdsGYk1bPc9v4czXgIL.html
24-11-2020||Editorials||Biden’s team of liberal internationalists | HT Editorial||The incoming Joe Biden administration has chosen a foreign policy team of liberal internationalists in an era of hard-edged realism. The question for New Delhi is not whether they have knowledge or affection for India. There is an equilibrium in the India-United States (US) ties from which no administration will stray far. The question New Delhi needs to ask is whether the incoming Biden administration understands that the tenets of an earlier post-war global order increasingly no longer hold true. And that the primary reason for this is a powerful and pugnacious China.Mr Biden’s senior-most appointments, Anthony Blinken as secretary of state and Jake Sullivan as national security adviser, are drawn from the Obama administration. The first Obama administration was a mix of isolationism and naivete. The second was a belated attempt to pushback against Beijing. Going by the statements of the Biden team, it is the experience of the second Obama term that animates them. But while they talk of the need to confront Chinese hegemony, this goes hand-in-hand with a desire to cut back US defence expenditure.The priority of the Biden administration is to restore the credibility of the US’s network of allies. This would allow them to use diplomacy to compensate for any military roll-back. So far, India has been included in this cluster. Much will depend on how much cooperation develops between the two in technology, climate and defence. It is not that failure on these fronts will make India and the US enemies. However, it will determine whether either country is in each other’s inner circle or whether both will move in some more distant orbital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/biden-s-team-of-liberal-internationalists/story-R5BTUNMGgCzjlBfcbkylbJ.html
