26-11-2020||Editorials||How Mumbai changed India | HT Editorial||It has been exactly 12 years since Pakistan-based terrorists — with the explicit sanction of at least a part of the Pakistani establishment — launched the most audacious terror attack on Mumbai. The 26/11 attacks brought home to both the Indian State and citizens that it could not be business-as-usual anymore. Besides conventional wars, Pakistan had engaged in asymmetric warfare — encouraging violence in Punjab in 1980s; in Jammu and Kashmir since 1989; in Mumbai in the early 1990s; across the Indian heartland through carefully-choreographed attacks in public places meant to spread panic and stir inter-community tensions; even against the Indian Parliament in 2001. This had devastated families and communities, and created deep anger. But the scale of the attack in Mumbai, its televised and prolonged nature, the manner in which citizens could relate to the iconic spaces of the city, and the human stories of tragedy redefined India’s approach. Diplomatically, engagement with Pakistan may have gone through its ebbs and flows since the attack — indeed, the Manmohan Singh government launched a peace effort at Sharm-el-Sheikh only the following year which failed and Narendra Modi himself went to Lahore. But the attack also changed something within India. Citizens were no longer willing to give the benefit of doubt to Islamabad; concessions to win peace were frowned upon, since Pakistan’s intent was in doubt; and increasingly, having a tough approach against Pakistan became a prerequisite to passing the test of Indian nationalism. Domestic political actors may have contributed to this climate but make no mistake; at its root was Pakistan’s continuous violation of inter-state norms. Mumbai shifted Indian discourse in favour of retaliatory action after a terror attack — a strategy the Modi government has adopted. Internally, India recognised that its internal security grid was fragmented and ill-equipped. Enhanced inter-agency coordination — particularly getting intelligence agencies to generate more actionable inputs, and other agencies to act on it well in time — became a priority, as did instituting more efficient protocols to reduce response time to a crisis. But these successes are often invisible and, as the old adage in security affairs goes, the other side just has to get it right once. India must continue to pay close attention to its internal security capabilities while keeping an eye on what Pakistan is up to.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/how-mumbai-changed-india-ht-editorial/story-7Jc6ZJ4aYu2PKK3ndo1PpM.html
26-11-2020||Editorials||The life and legacy of Diego Maradona | HT Editorial||Sport loves heroes. Followers of sport relish being mesmerised by a wiggle of the feet, a flick of the wrist, and a glint in the eyes. We enjoy according greatness and bestowing legendary status. With hyperbole as the fuel that powers sport, we sometimes use these words too lightly. And then, in the middle of this process of being mesmerised by flashes of genius and anointing lofty honorifics, comes a person like Diego Armando Maradona.There are only a few sporting icons who become not the product of a generation but the very definition of it. If Mohammad Ali was a force of nature who coalesced with the Civil Rights movement and the opposition to the Vietnam War to offer a protagonist to 1960s America, Diego Maradona was a phenomenon who became the leading man of the 1980s on the global stage. From his continent to ours, the world could apply him to any context while he stamped individualism over a team sport in a manner than no one else has done, or perhaps will ever do.The key difference between him and other great sporting icons was his ability to elevate, along with his personal legend, the platform itself. If the bedrock of Roger Federer’s greatness comes from his eight Wimbledon titles, the football World Cup became greater when Maradona won it for Argentina in 1986. And through it, Maradona almost single-handedly introduced the joy of sport to a larger world audience at the dawn of the era of live television. Maradona had many flaws, and made several comebacks from the pit of his own personal drugs-and-loneliness-infused hell. He admitted he was always black or white, never grey. Maradona died on Wednesday at 60. But he will forever remain heroic, human, infectious, and eternal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-life-and-legacy-of-diego-maradona-ht-editorial/story-teG8bZFmeX80h4v9a5KlQO.html
