01-08-2020||India||Muted Eid celebrations grim reminder of 2019 in Srinagar||Gulzar Ahmad Rather spent Eid-al-Adha like any other Saturday, mostly indoors. There were no mass prayers, no congregation in the local mosque, no visiting homes of relatives or ritual sacrifice of a goat. The morning prayers were offered in a small batch, the noon meal was simple and shorn of delicacies, and afternoon tea was without any cake or cookies. In the evening, his three children decided to not go out to meet friends and stay indoors. It was an early night for the family.For Rather, a 48-year-old vegetable vendor in Srinagar, the muted celebration was a reminder of Eid-Ul-Adha on August 12 last year, when an unprecedented lockdown and a communications blackout was clamped on the Valley in the wake of the government’s decision to strip the region of its special status and bifurcate it. But unlike last time, when passions ran high and tension was palpable in old Srinagar, the coronavirus pandemic and a depressed economy forced people to scale down celebrations this year. “That time, we, as a community, were emotionally hurt. There was anger and frustration. This time it is universal and there is an understanding that it is from God. Everyone is involved this time,” he said.With infection surging in the Valley – there are 2,700 cases in the 1.2 million-strong Srinagar alone – roads, markets and local shops were deserted on Saturday as no Eid prayers were offered in major mosques and shrines. To keep the virus at bay, people preferred to offer prayers at home -- either individually or in small groups of family members only. The barricades were lower than last year, the barbed wire fencing cordoned off fewer roads and there were no troops marching through city streets, but fear of the virus kept most people indoors. Asim Jan, a 21-year-old engineering student, said he was confined to his room for the first time on Eid. “I am reading a book on Eid because there is nothing to do. We can’t even move out,” he said.Eid, not a grand event anymoreIn a city with no cinemas and few avenues for entertainment, Eid-al-Adha is easily the most grand event. Known locally as big or Badi Eid, the celebration involves the traditional Qurbani, or sacrifice of goat, people buy jewellery, clothes and an assortment of baked goods. Even the peak of the militancy in the 90s didn’t ebb the enthusiasm and long queues at overcrowded bakeries were a common sight. But the turmoil of the past year has denied local residents any cheer. Last year, Eid-ul-Adha fell just a week after the effective nullification of Article 370, which accorded special status to Kashmir. Then Eid-ul-Fitr this year was in May when the pandemic was fast spreading across the country. With Eid-ul-Adha celebrated a week before the one-year anniversary of the Article 370 move on Saturday, local residents said the anger over politics from last year was replaced by fear and hopelessness about the state of the economy and health care system. “We took limited orders for Eid. The pandemic has changed everything. And for us, this is the third Eid when we are making below-average sales,” said Arshid Ahmad, manager of a prominent bakery at city’s Residency Road.On the road, coils of barbed wire and iron barricades have been replaced by colorful road blocks. “I am in the city centre Lal chowk after a month only to get medicines. Who will celebrate Eid?” asked Saqib Mansoor, a local resident.Even home kitchens are without the usual delicacies like Yakhni, Rogan Josh, Methimaaz.”This time we didn’t purchase anything because of the situation. We are taking precautions and have not ordered anything,” said Suhail Ahmad, a Srinagar resident.Travel restrictions imposed to break the chain of infection stopped sheep traders from neighbouring states and the lack of tourism meant that people had no money to buy animals for the traditional qurbani. “This time, animals are not visible in the markets due to pandemic,” said Zahoor Ahmad, a resident of Lal Bazar. Local authorities threw open all markets three days before Eid but quickly rescinded the decision as cases piled up – only shops selling essential supplies were allowed. Many residents said they felt trapped throughout the past year – first by political tensions, then the lockdown and communications blackout, and when finally some normalcy was returning to the streets, the pandemic. “It feels like for one year, I have been doing nothing. We have virtually been in the lockdown for the past one year,” said Danish Ahmad, a local school teacher.Local economy hit hardThe virtual year-long lockdown has ravaged the local economy, hurt small traders and ensured that ordinary people have little money to spend. “Jobs have been lost in every sector. On Eid, sales used to go 200 to 300 percent up but from last three Eids, the situation is going from bad to worse,” said Sheikh Ashiq, president of Kashmir Chamber of Commerce. A major generator of jobs – tourism – has been shuttered. Manzoor Ahmad Bhat, 35, a cab driver, hasn’t made a single trip to any tourist spot since August 5, 2019. “Before the restrictions last year, there were many tourists here and I used to make multiple trips in a month but since then I have not made a single penny for the whole year. How will I celebrate Eid when I don’t have anything to feed my wife?” Bhat asked.Javaid Ahmad Mir, who owns a laundry business, said that mood among locals had shifted from anger about the political situation to despair about personal finance. “Article 370 was on the minds of people last year and every heart was bleeding, this time people are more worried about the economy,” he said.“It will take another 10 years for us to recover”.Every Eid, Kashmir would welcome a large number of expatriates from West Asian countries who travelled home to celebrate the festival with their families. Bilal Ahmad, who works in a logistics firm in Dubai, travelled to old Srinagar with his wife and two young children last year, only to get trapped in the lockdown for months. This year, he decided to not come – but regretted spending the festival in a foreign country without family. “Last year, Eid was very tense but was still better than this one in the UAE. But there were no flights and uncertainty is still prevalent in Kashmir, so I decided to not come,” he said over phone. The uncertainty around the region’s political future, economy and the pandemic has left the local population drained. Mohammad Ramzan, 58, said that as a result of these three factors, people just fulfilled their religious obligations on Eid-Ul-Adha on Saturday, instead of a grand celebration. “Khushi kaha hai (Where is happiness?)” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muted-eid-celebrations-grim-reminder-of-2019-in-srinagar/story-meh03BTBwvcfnlHYvvOZbK.html
01-08-2020||India||Team of 88 Jaipur cops sent to Jaisalmer hotel to guard Congress MLAs loyal to Gehlot||A team of 88 policemen from Jaipur city police including three IPS, nine RPS (state services) officers and 17 inspectors who were sent to Jaisalmer yesterday are looking after the security of the hotel, where the Congress MLAs are staying. The Congress on Friday shifted legislators loyal to Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot to a luxury hotel near Jaisalmer, alleging that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was attempting to poach its MLAs. “The team of police officials from the city includes Additional Commissioner of Police Rahul Prakash, deputy commissioner of police, North, Rajeev Pachar, additional deputy commissioners of police Sunita Sharma, Satveer Singh and Rajendra Prasad; assistant commissioners of police Shankar Lal Chaba, Ranveer Singh and Vikram Singh, 17 inspectors and other subordinates have been sent to Jaisalmer,” a top police official said. The official added that the city police team had been sent to ensure that they along with Jaisalmer and Jodhpur range police ensure that there were no loopholes in the security of the legislators staying in the hotel. “A 360 degree multi-level security system has been established in the outer and inner periphery of the hotel. Barricading has been done in multiple areas of Jaisalmer especially connecting Bikaner, Barmer, Jodhpur and Jaisalmer,” the official said. The legislators had been camping in a hotel on the outskirts of Jaipur since July 13 in the aftermath of a rebellion by now-dismissed deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, who has the support of 18 Congress MLAs in the 200-member House. “The government needs to be saved as you can see the way the Centre and its departments are after us. The pressure will be less there [Jaisalmer]. Most of the ministers and I will stay here and the rest will keep coming. There will be no compromise on governance,” chief minister Gehlot said before boarding his flight to Jaisalmer. BJP state president Satish Poonia wondered if the Congress MLAs would cross over to Pakistan next. “The CM talks of democracy and the Constitution, but if there is unity, why are the MLAs being shifted? The CM should run the government from the secretariat, and not from hotels,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/team-of-88-jaipur-cops-sent-to-jaisalmer-hotel-to-guard-congress-mlas-loyal-to-gehlot/story-bQ0cUX8hxSpjL5xwYIgl9H.html
01-08-2020||India||Himachal Pradesh’s Covid-19 tally climbs to 2,635 with 70 fresh cases||Himachal Pradesh’s Covid-19 case count rose to 2,635 on Saturday as 70 more people tested positive for the disease, officials said.Among the fresh cases, 15 were reported from Sirmaur, 11 from Bilaspur, 10 from Una, nine from Solan, eight from Kangra, seven from Mandi, four from Chamba, three from Shimla, two from Kullu and one from Hamirpur, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) R D Dhiman said.A total of 43 patients -- 32 in Solan, five in Shimla, three in Mandi, and one each in Bilaspur, Kullu and Kangra -- recovered from the infection, he said.There are a total of 1,103 active Covid-19 cases in the state, Dhiman said.Solan has the highest number of active cases in the state at 386, followed by 189 in Sirmaur, 129 in Kangra, 123 in Mandi, 85 in Shimla, 67 in Una, 34 in Chamba, 35 in Bilaspur, 25 in Hamirpur, 19 in Kullu and 11 in Kinnaur, he said.Three Army personnel and one Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) jawan are among the fresh cases detected in Kangra, Superintendent of Police Vimukt Ranjan said.In Mandi, six fresh cases were reported from Sarkaghat and one from Gohar area, a district official said.Covid-19 has so far claimed 13 lives in Himachal Pradesh, while 1,502 people have recovered and 15 migrated out of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-pradesh-s-covid-19-tally-climbs-to-2-635-with-70-fresh-cases/story-yaEiO2tcwgWU1cADGD7KvL.html
01-08-2020||India||Assam may re-open schools, colleges on Sep 1, decision depends on Centre: Govt||The Assam government has made preliminary plans to reopen educational institutions on September 1 but the final decision will depend on the directives of the Centre, state education minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Saturday.All teachers and employees of the schools will have to get themselves tested, and the Education and Health departments will coordinate the efforts for the tests that will be conducted from August 23-30, the minister said while addressing a press conference here.“We have drawn up a preliminary plan for reopening schools but it is still open for further discussions with parents and other stakeholders, and will be implemented only in accordance with the directives of the Union government,” Sarma said.Schools will remain closed for students up to Class 4 till September-end, he said.Classes will be held in open spaces such as the playground or courtyard of the school for students of standard 5-8, he said.The classes will be divided into sections of 15 students and only these many students can attend classes at a time, he said.Students of standard 9 and 11 will attend classes in their classrooms for two days a week with 15 students being present at a time. Those in standard 10 and 12 will attend classes four days a week.Only 15 students will be present at a time in a classroom and classes will be held for only three hours in a day, the minister said.“Efforts will be made to ensure maximum social distancing with schools initiating shift systems with a particular class coming at an allotted time of the day,” he said.At the degree level, classes will be held only for the final semesters while for the post-graduate students, the universities will take a decision.All these proposals will be put up on the website of the Education Department and people are welcome to give their suggestions till August 20, Sarma said.“We will work on these suggestions but also wait for the Centre’s directive before taking a final decision,” Sarma said.The minister further said that the Secondary Education Board of Assam (SEBA) and Assam Higher Secondary Education Council (AHSEC) have also been asked to consider either reducing the syllabus or providing maximum options in the question paper so that students do not face any difficulty if a portion of the syllabus has not been covered. Educational institutions in Assam are closed since March 20, following the outbreak of the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-may-re-open-schools-colleges-on-sep-1-final-decision-depends-on-centre-govt/story-6g7BK5wNBXwBNLbYPJJXjP.html
01-08-2020||India||Several parts of Ayodhya illuminated ahead of August 5 Ram temple bhoomi pujan||Ahead of the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the Ram Temple, several areas of Ayodhya were illuminated with diyas (earthen lamps) and colourful lights on Saturday.According to potters in the state, around 1.25 lakh diyas were ordered for the highly anticipated ceremony on August 5. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will visit Ayodhya on August 2 to take stock of preparations for the Ram temple foundation stone-laying ceremony.The construction of the Ram temple will begin after the foundation stone-laying ceremony.The Supreme Court, on November 9 last year, had directed the Central government to hand over the site at Ayodhya for the construction of the Ram temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/several-parts-of-ayodhya-illuminated-ahead-of-august-5-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan/story-47jmQuLE4LhTLlmKAP9iTP.html
01-08-2020||India||Andhra lifts restrictions on interstate travel, hints at reopening schools on Sept 5||With the Centre making further relaxations in the lockdown as part of Unlock 3.0, the Andhra Pradesh government on Saturday announced removal of restrictions on inter-state transport, besides throwing open the tourism sector to step up the state’s revenue collection. The state government also hinted at reopening of all educational institutions from September 5, coinciding with Teacher’s Day. Principal Secretary (transport) M T Krishna Babu said starting Sunday, there would be no hurdles for the inter-state passenger movement. However, people entering Andhra Pradesh will have to register their names in the Spandana website. “Once passengers register their names with Spandana, an auto-generated e-pass will be sent to their mobile and email. They can carry the auto generated e-pass along with a valid id proof to get entry at the border check post. This system is to ensure a record of the people coming to AP such that local health staff can keep a watch on the health of the concerned,” Krishna Babu said. Minister for Tourism Muthamsetty Srinivas said the government will throw open various tourist spots for the people which would contribute to the state’s revenue. He also announced that a new tourism policy would be released shortly by chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy. The minister said tourism projects including Kailasagiri in Visakhapatnam and Bhavani Islands on Krishna River near Vijayawada would be reopened for the public from August 15. Boating facilities on Krishna and Godavari rivers would also be operated from August 15. Srinivas said the state government had sought financial assistance of Rs 1,000 crore from the Centre to revive the tourism sector, which had been hit badly due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Proposals for temple tourism, including packages for Tirupati, Simhachalam, Dwaraka Tirumala, Kanipakam and Sri Kalahasti were sent to the Centre. These tourism packages would be resumed in the first week of August. He said star hotels would also be started next week under public-private partnership after getting a nod from the chief minister. An official release from the chief minister’s office said the state government was gearing up to reopen the schools from September 5 across the state, coinciding with Teacher’s Day, hoping that the situation would become normal by then. The chief minister asked the officials to prepare for the launch YSR Vidhya Kanuka on the same day and students would be provided with a kit including a schoolbag, texts and note books, cloth for three pairs of uniforms, a pair of shoes, two pairs of socks and a belt. He said that masks should also be included in the kit and awareness should be created among the students as to how to use the masks, the CMO release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-lifts-restrictions-on-interstate-travel-hints-at-reopening-schools-on-sept-5/story-ZnMKyKmwzK0UjgoW9K411I.html
01-08-2020||India||MP Cong leaders to hold special prayers before Ram temple’s Bhumi Pujan ceremony||Madhya Pradesh Congress leaders will perform special prayers at their residences on August 4 and 5 before the Bhumi Pujan ceremony of Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5, said a party leader. Madhya Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) president and former chief minister Kamal Nath held a meeting on Saturday in Bhopal and asked all the party leaders and MLAs to celebrate the occasion by performing prayers for two days. “It was former Prime Minister late Rajeev Gandhi who opened the lock of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. He was the first person who coined the term Ramrajya and saw the dream of construction of the temple. Now, the Supreme Court has paved the way for the construction of the Ram temple, we will celebrate it,” Nath told Congress leaders, according to a party leader who attended the meeting.Also Read: Tight security arrangements, Covid-19 protocols in Ayodhya ahead of Ram temple evenMPCC spokesperson JP Dhanopia said, “MPCC chief Kamal Nath asked us to organize poojas including the recital of Sunderkand, Ramayan and yajna at our residences and post videos of it on social media to inspire others to do so. Nath will organize a special pooja at his official residence in Bhopal on August 4.” Madhya Pradesh Congress Committee also posted a message on social media on Saturday, presenting Kamal Nath as a devotee of lord Hanuman, while listing religion-linked decisions taken during his 15 month tenure as the MP chief minister. Former chief minister and Rajya Sabha member Digvijaya Singh also tweeted and said, “Lord Ram is a matter of faith for us. It’s our aspiration that a huge temple of lord Ram should be constructed soon in Ayodhya for Ramlala. It was a will of late Rajeev Gandhi too.” Also Read: Proud of denying permission to fire on kar sewaks in Ayodhya, says former Uttar Pradesh CM Kalyan SinghHowever, he repeated his questioning of the timing of the Bhumi Pujan ceremony in Ayodhya. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said the Congress initiative was a political gimmick. “Senior Congress leaders like Kapil Sibbal questioned the existence of lord Ram and now the same party is trying to change their image as Ram bhakts (devotes). These are political gimmick as they realized that lord Ram is a matter of faith for Indians and they can’t oppose it,” said BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal. The BJP further alleged that this was mere posturing aimed at winning the by polls due in the state.“If Congress leaders really have faith in lord Ram, what is the need for publicizing it on social media to declare themselves as bhakts? They are doing all these things to win the by-election but people are wise enough to understand the difference between real and reel,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-congress-leaders-to-hold-special-prayers-before-ram-temple-s-bhumi-pujan-ceremony/story-RRfIGU4RDRflJZUmJKI1iK.html
01-08-2020||India||Tripura IPFT legislator tests Covid-19 positive||An Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura (IPFT) MLA tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. He is the second legislator from the state to have been infected with the virus. Dhananjoy Tripura was elected legislator from the Raima Assembly constituency in Dhalai district in 2018. IPFT is an alliance partner of the state’s ruling BJP. BJP legislator Ramapada Jamatia and his wife and two of his personal guards had tested Covid-19 positive on July 22. Both Jamatia and his wife tested negative on Saturday and were discharged from the hospital. Tripura has so far recorded a total of 4,996 Covid-19 positive patients of whom 3,327 have recovered. A total of 21 Covid-19 patients have died and two other patients died by suicide, according to the Health Department’s report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-ipft-legislator-tests-covid-19-positive/story-Psl8iim8iFdeg66wGzEGfL.html
01-08-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally races past 17 lakh; July alone saw 65 per cent of total cases||India’s Covid-19 tally of cases went past 17 lakh on Saturday evening, of which 11.1 lakh were reported in July alone thus accounting for about 65.48 per cent of the total instances of the viral infection reported in the country so far.While around 7.32 lakh new cases were registered between July 15 and 31, the past month also so 19,111 lives lost due to the disease, which is around 52.34 per cent of the total 36,511 deaths recorded so far.According to Union health ministry data updated at 8 am on Saturday, the country recorded 57,118 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours taking the tally to 16,95,988, while the death toll increased to 36,511 with 764 people succumbing to the disease during the same period.At the same time, the number of recoveries too surged to 10,94,374.This was the third consecutive day that Covid-19 cases have increased by more than 50,000.However, by the evening, a PTI tally of figures showed that India’s Covid-19 count has crossed the 17-lakh mark and the number of recoveries has gone past 11 lakh. The tally has been compiled with information provided by respective states and union territories.The health ministry had in the morning reported that there are 5,65,103 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country. The recovery rate among Covid-19 patients was recorded at 64.53 per cent, while the fatality rate had further dropped to 2.15 per cent, the data showed.The total number of confirmed cases also includes foreigners.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), cumulatively 1,93,58,659 samples have been tested up to July 31 with 5,25,689 of them on Friday.Of the new 764 deaths reported on Saturday, 265 are from Maharashtra, 97 from Tamil Nadu, 84 from Karnataka, 68 from Andhra Pradesh, 45 from West Bengal, 43 from Uttar Pradesh, 27 from Delhi, 23 from Gujarat, 16 from Punjab, 14 each from Bihar and Telangana, 12 from Jammu and Kashmir and 11 from Rajasthan.Ten fatalities have been reported from Madhya Pradesh, eight from Odisha, four each from Assam, Haryana and Uttarakhand, three each from Goa, Jharkhand, Kerala, two from Chhattisgarh while the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, Manipur and Puducherry registered one fatality each.Of the total 36,511 deaths, Maharashtra has reported the maximum at 14,994, followed by 3,963 in Delhi, 3,935 in Tamil Nadu, 2,441 in Gujarat, 2,314 in Karnataka, 1,630 in Uttar Pradesh, 1,581 in West Bengal, 1,349 in Andhra Pradesh and 867 in Madhya Pradesh, the data showed.So far, 674 people have died of Covid-19 in Rajasthan, 519 in Telangana, 421 in Haryana, 386 in Punjab, 377 in Jammu and Kashmir, 296 in Bihar, 177 in Odisha, 106 in Jharkhand, 98 in Assam, 80 in Uttarakhand, 73 in Kerala, according to the health ministry data.Chhattisgarh has registered 53 deaths, Puducherry 49, Goa 45, Tripura 21, Chandigarh 15, Himachal Pradesh 14, Ladakh seven, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur and Andaman and Nicobar Islands five each, Arunachal Pradesh three, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu two and Sikkim one, the health ministry data showed.The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities.“Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research,” the ministry said, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-races-past-17-lakh-july-alone-saw-65-per-cent-of-total-cases/story-AWGfeJtizvL4W9RIX9d9YJ.html
01-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 PM: Delhi records 1,118 fresh coronavirus cases and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi records 1,118 fresh coronavirus cases, death toll nears 4,000Delhi on Saturday recorded another round of 1,118 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the cumulative tally recorded to 1,36,716. The national capital has 10,596 active cases as of Saturday out of which 5,660 people are being treated in home isolation, according to the health bulletin released by the government. Read moreAndhra govt begins process to shift capital to Vizag, farmers plan to move courtWith Andhra Pradesh governor Biswabhusan Harichandan approving the two bills related to the formation of three capital cities for the state, the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government has begun the exercise to shift the administrative capital from Amaravati to Visakhapatnam. Read more‘Stop the tamasha’: Gehlot appeals to PM Modi, cites increased horse trading ‘rate’Gehlot had earlier made similar appeals to the PM and also written to him complaining about Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and other developments in the state. Read moreWould’ve gotten all 10 wickets against Pakistan a lot earlier had there been DRS: Anil Kumble tells R AshwinFormer India captain and coach Anil Kumble said he probably would have gotten his 10-wicket haul against Pakistan a lot earlier had there been a provision to use DRS (Decision Review System) in that Test match at the Feroz Shah Kotla in New Delhi in 1999. Read moreVir Das calls out insensitive debate on mental health: ‘You can be depressed and be successful, fit, functional’Vir Das has called for a more compassionate and sensitive discussion on mental health issues in light of TV news’ coverage on Sushant Singh Rajput’s suicide. Read moreMove over Vogue, pooches are strutting their stuff for ‘Dogue’ fashion magazine coversWhat started off as a Tiktok trend of people editing their best pictures and turning them into the covers of ‘Vogue’ magazine, has transformed into people using their pets for ‘Dogue’ covers instead. Read moreWatch: In tribute to Lokmanya Tilak, Amit Shah hails his contribution to freedom movementUnion Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday paid tribute to Bal Gangadhar Tilak on his 100th death anniversary. Shah said that Tilak dedicated his entire life to India’s freedom struggle. He also urged the youth to read about the life of the freedom fighter. Watch the video here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-delhi-records-1-118-fresh-coronavirus-cases-and-all-the-latest-news/story-eIgAbR1X5DZdIgqyv75f2K.html
01-08-2020||India||Heavy rains likely in 10 districts as IMD issues yellow alert||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued yellow alert for ten districts in Kerala for next four days indicating heavy rains in the region. The weatherman has predicted rains ranging from 6 cm to 20 cm at various districts till August 5. The districts of Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod districts have been issued yellow alert. The IMD website also indicates the formation of a low pressure area over north Bay of Bengal towards the later part of the first week of August and says its likely to intensify over northwest bay of Bengal off Odisha coast at the end of the first week. Earlier, on July 29, a red alert was sounded in the high range Idukki district by the IMD with widespread extremely heavy rains predicted as parts of the state received heavy showers inundating low lying areas and partially disrupting rail traffic. Kerala had been devastated by the worst floods in the last 100 years during August 2018 that claimed over 400 lives and razed several houses. Last year, the state’s northern parts were flooded again in August as heavy rains and widespread landslides wreaked havoc, claiming over 120 lives. A large number of people including women and children had lost their lives at Kavalapara in Malappuram and Puthumala in Wayanad alone when landslides rocked the places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rains-likely-in-10-districts-as-imd-issues-yellow-alert/story-ENfjfxgj8UKpQUZMNEqlsN.html
01-08-2020||India||Apple vendors, others line up with Rs 11-lakh cr mobile phone manufacturing proposals: RS Prasad||As many as 22 domestic and international firms, including iPhone maker Apple’s contract manufacturers as well as Samsung, Lava, Dixon and so forth, have lined up with proposals for mobile phones production worth Rs 11 lakh crore over the next five years, Union Telecom and IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said on Saturday. The minister said these proposals under the government’s Rs 41,000-crore production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for mobile phone manufacturing are expected to create around 12 lakh jobs, 3 lakh direct and 9 lakh indirect employment opportunities, in the country.  “There will be huge (mobile phone) production of around Rs 11 lakh crore, huge export of around Rs 7 lakh crore and great employment opportunity for 3 lakh direct and 9 lakh indirect people. I personally thank all the companies that have applied,” Prasad told reporters.He said that a total of 22 companies have filed applications under the PLI scheme from various countries including Taiwan, South Korea, Germany, Austria, etc.  “The benchmark for international companies was that they make mobile phones priced at or above Rs 15,000. International companies that have applied are Samsung, Foxconn Hon Hai, Rising Star, Wistron and Pegatron,” Prasad said.  Foxconn Hon Hai, Wistron and Pegatron are contract manufacturers for Apple iPhones. There is no price limit for Indian companies under the scheme. In terms of revenue, Apple accounts for 37 per cent and Samsung 22 per cent for global sales of mobile phones and the PLI scheme is expected to increase their manufacturing base manifold in the country, an official statement issued by the Ministry of Electronics and IT (Meity) said. The minister further said these companies will make thousands of crores investments based on the approval of their proposal. Prasad said Indian companies, including Lava, Dixon Technologies, Bhagwati (Micromax), Padget Electronics, Sojo Manufacturing Services and Optiemus Electronics, have applied under the scheme and 10 companies have filed applications under the Specified Electronic Components Segment. The companies that have applied for components production of around Rs 45,000 crore include AT&S, Ascent Circuits, Visicon, Walsin, Sahasra, Vitesco and Neolync. There were no applications from Chinese companies under the scheme. The minister said India is not averse to investment from any country but companies will have to follow rules related to security clearance, etc. The government notified production linked incentive scheme for large scale electronics manufacturing, the scheme for promotion of manufacturing of electronic components and semiconductors, and the modified electronics manufacturing clusters (EMC 2.0) scheme.The government expects to attract Rs 1 lakh crore investment in the sector and sees a target manufacturing revenue potential of Rs 10 lakh crore by 2025. The fresh proposals have exceeded the government’s manufacturing revenue target but the final outcome will depend on the decision of the screening committee that will select projects eligible for incentives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apple-vendors-others-line-up-with-rs-11-lakh-cr-mobile-phone-manufacturing-proposals-rs-prasad/story-SYdp9843ThFm6SYDmf4mPP.html
01-08-2020||India||27 security personnel among 53 fresh Covid-19 cases in Meghalaya||Fifty-three more people, including 27 security personnel, tested positive for Covid-19 in Meghalaya, raising the state’s tally to 856, a Health Department official said on Saturday.Of the fresh cases, 45 were reported from East Khasi Hills district, three from Ri-Bhoi and one each from West Garo, West Jaintia, East Jaintia, West Khasi and South Garo hills, Health Services director Aman War said.“Twenty new cases were detected on Friday and 33 were reported on Saturday. Twenty-seven security personnel and three healthcare professionals are among new patients,” he said.Of the three health staffers, one is a doctor of the Bethany Hospital here and two are employees of the TB Hospital and the North Eastern Indira Gandhi Regional Institute of Health and Medical Sciences, he said.Meghalaya now has 631 active Covid-19 patients, and 304 of them are armed forces personnel, War said.Of the active cases in the state, 527 are in the East Khasi Hills district, of which Shillong city is a part.A total of 220 people have recovered from the disease and five died of it.The state health department has conducted 36,500 tests for Covid-19 so far, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/27-security-personnel-among-53-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-meghalaya/story-MP4uqtF7fRcbXfUHO0eJzJ.html
01-08-2020||India||Kerala reports 1,129 fresh cases; tally at 24,741||There is a big spurt in locally-transmitted coronavirus cases in Kerala as the state reported 1,129 fresh cases and eight deaths on Saturday, said state health minister K K Shailaja. Among the dead is a police officer, first in the state. A close look at the state’s tally in last one week shows its aggressive strategy of isolating, contract tracing and treating patients is under deep stress due to increase in caseloads. With 1,129 Covid-19 cases, the total tally went up to 24,741 with 10,862 active cases and 13,779 have recovered . With eight casualties, highest since the outbreak began, death toll went up to 83. But there are allegations that at least 20 deaths failed to find a place in the list but the government maintained that it was going by the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The first coronavirus case in the country was reported in the state on January 30, a China-returned medical student from Thrissur. Coronavirus cases started increasing in March first week but by April the state was on the verge of flattening the curve. But after lockdown norms were eased in May, there was a big surge of expatriates and people stranded in other states which vitiated the coronavirus scene again. Till June, imported Covid-19 cases formed a lion’s share but in July locally-transmitted cases went up, which is now more than 70%. It took five months to reach 10,000 but in 20 days it crossed 24,000. But there is some relief too as the recovery rate is also going up steadily. The government is now trying to enhance health system capacity and keep the transmission rate down. “Our effective management and planning helped contain the spread of the virus. If we continue the strategy well we can check a massive surge in cases,” said the health minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-reports-1-129-fresh-cases-tally-at-24-741/story-SygWQ7hOOqIyVZOA1AVgjI.html
01-08-2020||India||Amar Singh and the Bharatiya Janata Party - so near and yet so far||Shortly after demonetization in November 2016, a video purportedly showing him smiling at a derogatory comment against Prime Minister Narendra Modi by an unidentified person fetched Amar Singh an FIR at the City Kotwali police station in Uttar Pradesh’s Azamgarh. The Samajwadi party leader wasted no time to file a counter complaint against the person uttering the comments and went on to dub demonetization as a courageous move. Contrary to his party’s stand, Singh who had been re-elected to the Rajya Sabha in May that year, went ahead to praise the policy decision, although with a footnote about the weakness in its implementation. While his party colleagues trained their guns on the PM, Singh went around declaiming how “proud” he was to have Narendra Modi as Prime Minister.These statements marked the beginning of Amar Singh’s outreach towards the PM and the Bharatiya Janata Party with which he had a turbulent past. In 2008, Singh was accused of conspiring and masterminding the cash-for-vote scam to bribe some MPs to cross vote ahead of a confidence vote in the Lok Sabha. The politically expedient Singh was unperturbed when he breached the Samajwadi Party line to support the BJP on a host of issues from the construction of a Ram Temple in Ayodhya to the abrogation of Article 370 that gave Jammu and Kashmir its special status. By 2017, when signs of estrangement between him and his mentor Mulayam Singh Yadav were evident, he seemed to make the most of the speculation about his joining the BJP. Singh’s warming up to the BJP was visible after the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections in 2017, when he lashed out at Akhilesh Yadav for aligning with the Congress, accusing him of corruption and failing to offer development in the state. His public outburst against the Yadav scion led to a second expulsion from the party, which was announced at the national convention. He was earlier expelled for anti-party activities in 2010. In 2018, a period of exile from the public eye, partly on account of his failing health, ended when his presence at PM Modi’s event became the talking point. While lashing out at his political opponents for secretly kowtowing with industrialists, PM Modi referred to Singh and how he could disclose the details of those meetings. Basking in the attention, Singh later told mediapersons that he will give out the names when the time is ripe. “Lab khulenge to utar jayegen chehre saare…” (Masks will slip when I open my mouth), he said to a television channel. The PM’s comment reignited speculation of Singh’s entry into the party fold. But Singh kept up the guessing game, neither denying nor giving cues about his next move. In 2019, a BJP ally, the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) even offered him a ticket to contest from Azamgarh, a borough of the Yadavs and a seat then represented in the Lok Sabha by Mulayam Singh. Singh, declined. He would reply to posers about his joining date by claiming he was only a “supporter of PM Modi”. “There was a lot of speculation about him joining the BJP and it was usually triggered by his presence at BJP events. When he was seen at the three-day lecture series by RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, the rumour gained strength,” said a BJP functionary not wishing to be quoted. When asked if his role in the 2008 cash for votes scandal was a reason for the party to keep a distance, the functionary said, “There are many reasons …” but did not elucidate. Singh also found a way to worm his way into the good books of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh; not only did he support the demand for a Ram Temple at Ayodhya, but also donated his ancestral house in Azamgarh to the RSS. Aware of the many sobriquets he earned during his political innings, Singh while speaking during the debate on the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Bill in Rajya Sabha on August 5 last year said, he could not be called a “dal badloo” or a party hopper. “I did not leave the party, though I was expelled twice,” he said on the floor of the House and proceeded to support to the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amar-singh-and-the-bharatiya-janata-party-so-near-and-yet-so-far/story-Tgq2Me2191xD5AK13gXWcI.html
01-08-2020||India||45 juveniles in Odisha correctional home test Covid-19 positive||At least 45 juveniles lodged in a government-run correctional facility in Berhampur town have tested positive for Covid-19 on the day Odisha recorded its highest single-day surge of 1,602 cases.Berhampur Municipal Corporation commissioner Chakraborty Singh Rathore said of the 100 minors in the home, 72 had developed Covid-19-like symptoms following which swab samples were collected Friday. The reports of 45 inmates tested positive for Covid-19. Juveniles from 12 districts accused in several cases are staying in the Berhampur correctional facility.Superintendent of the correctional home, PK Hara said the infected inmates have been kept in isolation and their treatment has started. So far 96 undertrial prisoners across Odisha jails have tested positive for Covid-19 following which state prison department officials released 16,789 inmates from jails.Meanwhile, Odisha reported 1,602 cases and 10 deaths today, the highest single-day surge so far taking the total positive cases to 33,479 and deaths to 187. The month of July has turned out to be the most crucial for Odisha with 78% of the total cases reported in last 31 days. In July, Odisha had a daily average growth rate of 5.02%. While the Covid-19 hotspot of Ganjam has reported more than 10,000 cases, 5 other districts have more than 1,000 cases.As the sample positivity rate hovers around 10, the state government from Saturday would test at least 20,000 samples everyday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/45-juveniles-in-odisha-correctional-home-test-covid-19-positive/story-kj4SvAQacT4AJjg7XhmoDP.html
01-08-2020||India||Ram Temple marks the beginning of a new India, says RSS’ Bhaiyyaji Joshi||The construction of a Ram Temple in Ayodhya is not the last mile, but the beginning of a new India, said Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s general secretary, Suresh Bhaiyyaji Joshi on Saturday. The RSS leader said the construction of the Ram Temple marks the completion of one part of the struggle. Joshi’s remarks come days ahead of the foundation stone-laying ceremony at Ayodhya on August 5, following which the construction of the Ram temple will begin. “It is the new beginning of a new era. The Hindu samaj (society) wants to give a message of human welfare to the world. We should not remain meek, but powerful and the construction of temple will mark the beginning of that,” Joshi said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, Joshi and a host of other RSS leaders are expected to attend the ground breaking ceremony.Also read: Ayodhya priest, 15 policemen test Covid-19 positive ahead of Ram temple eventThe RSS and its frontal organisation, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad were at the forefront of Ram Janmabhoomi movement that pushed for construction of a temple at the site where the Babri Masjid stood before its demolition in 1992. The RSS functionary said the struggle was not for the construction of just another place of worship as there are hundreds of temples across India but also imparting inspiration through the principles of Lord Ram. “Our ambition was not to add one more temple in the list. It is not completely true to see it only as a centre for religious faith…When we think of this temple, there are other things that have to be taken into account. Lord Ram lived life as a man of principles and he was considered Maryada Purushottam. Therefore, his ideals and principles and his administration as a ruler will serve as an inspiration,” he said. Also read: Ram Mandir bhoomipujan should have been held later, says Raj ThackerayJoshi also associated the issue of national pride with the temple. “All those who attacked India left something behind and it pains us to see monuments and other buildings left behind by them,” he said. Countering statements by political leaders about the existence of the Babri Masjid for over 400 years, the RSS leader said, “For any self-respecting nation, it is not good to be reminded of relics of their attackers, therefore the building that was left at the site for 400 years kept reminding the Hindu Samaj of their defeat. That is why it’s removal and creation of a temple in its place was raised by late Ashok Singhal,” Joshi said. The central joint general secretary of VHP, Dr. Surendra Jain, said the history of Ram Janmabhoomi movement is a” journey of pride of the country which went from self-guilt to clear conscience”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-temple-marks-the-beginning-of-a-new-india-says-rss-bhaiyyaji-joshi/story-QElhUDAMId2aN9YOChcwOI.html
01-08-2020||India||Thackeray under pressure from Bollywood ‘mafia’ to derail Sushant probe: Sushil Modi||Bihar deputy chief minister Sushil Modi has accused Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray of attempting to save people allegedly responsible for actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death under pressure from ally Congress, a party he claims has been patronizing the Bollywood ‘mafia’.Sushil Modi also repeated his allegation that the Mumbai police was not cooperating with the Bihar police team in the city to investigate Rajput’s live-in partner Rhea Chakraborty’s alleged role in his death. “ Uddhav Thackeray is under pressure from the Bollywood mafia patronised by the Congress, therefore he is bent on saving all those responsible in Sushant’s (death) case. How will Congress show its face to people in Bihar,” Modi said in his tweet.Modi’s comments assume significance since Bihar is slated for assembly elections later this year and the Congress party is part of the opposition alliance in Bihar. Modi’s reference to ‘Bollywood mafia’ also reflects the popular sentiment associated with a campaign started after Rajput’s death against alleged culture of nepotism in the Mumbai film industry, which purportedly blocks outsiders like Rajput from progressing in their careers.On Friday, Uddhav had defended Mumbai police’s investigations and asked anyone with evidence in Sushant case to come forward. He also urged against using this case as an “excuse” to create friction between Maharashtra and Bihar. “Mumbai Police is not inefficient. If anyone has any evidence they can bring it to us and we will interrogate and punish the guilty. Please do not use this case (Sushant Singh Rajput death case) as an excuse to create friction between Maharashtra and Bihar,” Thackeray was quoted as saying by ANI.However, Sushil Modi has said that Rajput’s case is not the first instance of alleged discrimination against Bihar. He tweeted to say that there were attempts to block the return of migrant workers from the state from Maharashtra during the lockdown.“Complaints of ill-treatment of people from Bihar also used to be received earlier but the current Uddhav government, surviving on the crutches of Congress and NCP support, has crossed all limits. During lockdown, attempts were made to stall the return of labourers from Bihar,” Modi alleged in another tweet.Quite tellingly, Modi also described Sushant SIngh Rajput as a “son of Bihar” while accusing Mumbai police of not cooperating with Bihar police. Modi said that almost all parties are in favour of a CBI probe in the case, which has been opposed by Maharashtra government. A budding actor, Sushant Singh Rajput was found dead in his Bandra flat on June 14. It was suggested to be a case of death by suicide but soon allegations started to surface indicating he could have been driven to take his life due to circumstances including stalling of his movies by big production houses in Bollywood. While Mumbai police has been questioning film personalities in its probe, Sushant’s family in Patna filed a case of abetment of suicide against Sushant’s live-in-partner and actor Rhea Chakraborty, accusing her of mentally harassing Sushant and of diverting Sushant’s money among other allegations. The family has also accused Mumbai police of attempting to derail the probe by focusing on Bollywood biggies instead of Rhea. The family is also opposing Rhea Chakraborty’s plea to transfer case filed against her in Bihar to Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushil-modi-alleges-uddhav-under-pressure-from-bollywood-mafia-to-derail-sushant-probe/story-tl2IdKotiqEzvpHuVxBhJO.html
01-08-2020||India||GST collection fell 14% to Rs 87,422 crore in July: Govt||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection in the month of July fell 3.8% at Rs 87,422 crore compared to Rs 90,917 crore collected in the previous month, while the revenue mop up in July this year saw a 14.3% year-on-year decline due to the coronavirus pandemic that has had a devastating impact on the economy.“The revenues for the last month [June 2020] were higher than the current month. However, it is important to note that during the previous month, a large number of taxpayers also paid taxes pertaining to February, March and April 2020 on account of the relief provided due to Covid-19,” a finance ministry statement said on Saturday. The taxpayers with turnover less than Rs 5 core still enjoy relaxation in filing of returns till September 2020, it added.Experts said the GST collection, which is a weathervane of economic health, is increasingly improving and the trend is positive. Pratik Jain, partner and leader, indirect tax at consultancy firm PwC India said, “June and July data reveal that broadly the collections are stabilising between 85-90% of corresponding period last year. This is also corroborated with number of E-way bills being generated on a daily basis, which indicates that supply chain is getting back to normal.”GST collection was badly hit in the current financial year due to the 68-day nationwide lockdown since March 25 to check the spread of Covid-19. The collection in April 2020 plunged 72% at Rs 32,172 crore compared to the same month last year. It fell 38% in May 2020 at Rs 62,151 crore due to over same month previous year. The year-on-year fall in June this year had come down to 9%.The gross GST revenue collected in the month of July, 2020 is Rs 87,422 crore of which the central GST (CGST) is Rs 16,147crore, the state GST (SGST) is Rs 21,418 crore and integrated GST (IGST) is Rs 42,592 crore. The cess collection in the month is Rs 7,265 crore, the finance ministry statement said.“The government has settled Rs 23,320 crore to CGST and Rs 18,838 crore to SGST from IGST as regular settlement. The total revenue earned by Central Government and the State Governments after regular settlement in the month of July,2020 is Rs 39,467 crore for CGST and Rs 40,256 crore for the SGST,” it added.Jain said, “This augurs well for the government and collections are likely to improve further as lockdown is eased progressively. Industry can perhaps hope for some more GST relief, particularly in form of liquidity support as they navigate through the slowdown.”“While the overall GST collections for the month is heartening , the collections in many of the major states coming close to last year’s collections indicates that the recovery process has slowly started with the unlockdown process underway in these states,” MS Mani, partner at consultancy firm Deloitte India said.“The progressive unlockdown steps taken by various states in June are reflected in the improvement in GST collections for July although the figures also include some transactions in respect of earlier months,” Mani added.Rajat Bose, partner at law firm Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas and Co said, “While the collections in July are less than the collections in June, however, one must keep in mind that collections in June also included collections for the month of March, April and May. Hopefully, this trend should continue in the coming months, especially since festive season has started in the country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-collection-fell-14-to-rs-87-422-crore-in-july-govt/story-UDytToCGQgGkbVJps1zu8J.html
01-08-2020||India||Andhra govt begins process to shift capital to Vizag, farmers plan to move court||With Andhra Pradesh governor Biswabhusan Harichandan approving the two bills related to the formation of three capital cities for the state, the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government has begun the exercise to shift the administrative capital from Amaravati to Visakhapatnam. On Saturday, the state government appointed a high-level committee to look into the development of security infrastructure in Visakhapatnam. The committee is headed by Visakhapatnam Commissioner of Police R K Meena and would comprise of eight senior officials. An officer on special duty (security planning) would be its convenor. The committee will study the infrastructure required for strengthening the security and policing in Visakhapatnam in the wake of it being developed into the executive capital. It would also look into the requirement of additional police forces in the capital city. Director General of Police Gautam Sawang directed that the committee submit its report within two weeks. Soon after the issuance of gazette notifications on the two bills -- the Andhra Pradesh Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Bill, 2020, and the AP Capital Region Development Authority (Repeal) Bill, 2020 – declaring them as Acts on Friday evening, minister for urban development and municipal administration Botsa Satyanarayana announced that chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy would soon lay the foundation for the executive capital at Visakhapatnam. An official in the chief minister’s office familiar with the development said the chief minister is likely to lay the foundation stone for the executive capital at Visakhapatnam on August 15, soon after the Independence Day celebrations, which would also be held in the port city. Jagan reportedly deputed his CMO staff to make arrangements for the foundation stone laying ceremony. “The shifting of the government offices would commence shortly in a phased manner and if everything goes as per plan, the state secretariat and other administrative offices would be shifted to Visakhapatnam by October 25, coinciding with Dusshera festival,” the official said. The farmers of Amaravati who had given away nearly 34,000 acres of land to the state government for development of the state capital during the Chandrababu Naidu regime, have vowed to fight against the shifting of the administrative capital to Visakhapatnam. Hundreds of farmers from Tulluru, Mandadam, Venkatayapalem and Velagapaudi staged protests in their respective villages, maintaining social distance as per Covid-19 norms, to express their dissent against the Governor’s approval for the three capitals. “We are completely shattered. The state government is least bothered about the sacrifices made by thousands of farmers hoping that there would be a capital at Amaravati. We are pinning our hopes on the judiciary now,” Amaravati Parirakshana Samithi Joint Action Committee (JAC) leader A Siva Reddy said. The farmers are now planning to move a petition in the high court on Tuesday seeking a stay on the implementation of the three capitals Act. A petition filed by former Telugu Desam Party MLA from Tadikonda Sravan Kumar earlier this week is pending in the high court, which posted it to August 6 for hearing. “We are questioning on what basis the state government had taken the decision to form three capitals. The so-called expert committee by G N Rao was formed only to suggest measures for the all-round development of the state and not for trifurcation of the capital city. We are ready to face a long-drawn legal battle in this regard,” Anil Karumanchi, a farmer from Venkatayapalem said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-govt-begins-process-to-shift-capital-to-vizag-farmers-plan-to-move-court/story-Rh5VYk0Ro7RsvjLOdih0IN.html
01-08-2020||India||Goa governor, CM spar again, this time over new Raj Bhavan||Yet another episode in the ongoing skirmish between Goa governor Satyapal Malik and chief minister Pramod Sawant has unfolded with the governor terming the Goa government’s decision to build a new Raj Bhavan for the state as “illogical and imprudent”, especially since it has come during a pandemic and has sought that it be deferred. In a statement issued by the Raj Bhavan, the governor has said that “at a time when the state is battling Covid-19 and reeling under financial crises, the idea to construct a new Raj Bhavan is irrational and imprudent.” “Any new capital work would entail unnecessary additional financial burden on the state exchequer thereby exacerbating the economic distress of the state,” the governor said. Malik who had addressed a letter to the chief minister has clarified that his requirement for functioning as the governor is very limited and that he does not require a new Raj Bhavan building per se. For Coronavirus Live UpdatesOn July 24, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant announced the decision to construct new premises for the Raj Bhavan and suggested related work like identifying land for the building and finalizing its design could be tendered before April 2021.The Goa governors’ residence is housed in an erstwhile Portuguese fort that was used to accommodate Portuguese governors prior to being converted into a governor’s residence after liberation. Speaking after a review meeting of the ongoing maintenance work of Raj Bhavan and its restoration at his residence Altinho Panaji, CM proposed the idea for the new building saying the existing centuries-old building has been declared a heritage building by the archaeological survey of India and could be put to heritage or tourism use. The chief minister stressed on to sustain the originality and uniqueness of the building of the existing building.Also Read: Bengal governor raises questions over funding of state’s Global Business SummitHowever, the announcement didn’t go down well with the governor, who shot off a letter to the chief minister pointing out that “a lot of negativities and controversies are being generated” and asked him to defer the proposal till the state finances improve. Opposition parties had questioned the government’s decision to announce a new Raj Bhavan amid a severe financial crisis which has seen the state resort to unprecedented borrowing to keep the engine running. The Goa government has also announced austerity measures including a ban on recruitment, a ban on new capital works in a bid to cut costs and shore up the balance sheet. The governor and the CM have had several run-ins most recently over the state government’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, which saw the governor accusing Sawant of putting words in his mouth that he was happy with the handling but disappointed with the coverage in the media.The chief Minister later met the governor and clarified his comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-governor-cm-spar-again-this-time-over-new-raj-bhavan/story-Hm6h9ViOhApob8iLpEAfFM.html
01-08-2020||India||‘One of the most colourful members’: Leaders condole Rajya Sabha MP Amar Singh’s demise||Condolences from across the political sphere poured in for Rajya Sabha MP and former Samajwadi Party leader Amar Singh who died in Singapore on Saturday where he was undergoing treatment. Singh is known for wielding immense influence in power circles as a close aide of Samajwadi Party leader Mulayam Singh Yadav.Singh, 64, had undergone kidney transplant in 2011 and was not keeping well for a long time.Calling Singh an energetic public figure who witnessed it all, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, “Amar Singh Ji was an energetic public figure. In the last few decades, he witnessed some of the major political developments from close quarters. He was known for his friendships across many spheres of life. Saddened by his demise,” PM Modi tweeted Saturday evening.Vice-President of India Venkaiah Naidu paid condolences and said, “The Rajya Sabha MP mourns the untimely demise of Shri Amar Singh. In this hour of grief, I express my heartfelt condolences to his family and associates and pray to God for the peace of the departed soul. Om Shanti!”Defence minister Rajnath Singh described Singh, his fellow politician from Uttar Pradesh, as a leader with friends in every political party. “Saddened to know about the passing away of senior leader and MP Amar Singh. In his public life, he made friends in every political party,” Rajnath Singh’s tweet said.Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also expressed grief on Twitter and said, “May God give shelter to the soul of Shri Amar Singh ji in his deeds. My sincere condolences to the family of Shri Amar Singh ji. I express my deepest condolences to his bereaved wife and daughters in this sad moment.”Jairam Ramesh, former union environment minister described Singh as one of the most colourful members of the upper house. “The Rajya Sabha has just lost one of its most colourful members. Amar Singh played a key role in the United Front government in ‘96 and ‘97 in pushing telecom and petroleum sector reforms. I was his neighbour for quite a few years. Have many fond memories,” the senior Congress leader said. Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav paid an emotional tribute to Singh with a photograph. श्री अमर सिंह जी के स्नेह-सान्निध्य से वंचित होने पर भावपूर्ण संवेदना एवं श्रद्धांजलि. pic.twitter.com/YwNmeLk1BkOdisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik said deeply saddened to learn about the passing away of veteran leader and Rajya Sabha MP Amar Singh. My thoughts & prayers are with the bereaved family. May his soul rest in peace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-of-the-most-colourful-members-leaders-condole-rajya-sabha-mp-amar-singh-s-demise/story-04SjkaU7ntldr5FtOr3AWI.html
01-08-2020||India||‘Bihar Police capable of probing Sushant Singh Rajput death case’: DGP on CBI probe demand||The Mumbai Police is assisting the sleuths from Patna visiting the metropolis to probe the death of Bollywood star Sushant Singh Rajput, Bihar’s Director General of Police (DGP) Gupteshwar Pandey said on Saturday, dubbing the allegations of misbehaviour as “rumours”.Speaking to reporters, he said the Bihar Police is capable enough to investigate the matter and has recorded statements of a number of persons.“Our team is camping in Mumbai. It has already examined and recorded the statement of Rajput’s close friend Mahesh Shetty. It also recorded the statement of his ex- girlfriend Ankita Lokhande, his sister Mitu Singh, cook Ashok, Niraj, and Dr Chavda (Dr Kersi Chavda), who treated Sushant for depression,” Pandey said.Some more persons will be examined in connection with the alleged suicide, he added.Pandey said the Bihar Police wants all medico-legal evidence related to the case handed over to it, asserting that it will bring out the truth at the earliest.A four-member team of the state police is in Mumbai to probe the suicide after it registered an FIR at the Rajiv Nagar police station here on July 25 based on a complaint lodged by Rajput’s father KK Singh.“Our team had a meeting with Mumbai’s Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime) on Friday evening. The DCP assured of cooperation... Initially, there was some confusion and non-cooperation,” Pandey told reporters here.Stating that the allegations of Mumbai Police’s misbehaviour with the Bihar Police personnel were “rumours”, Pandey said the local police there helped the sleuths from the eastern state reach its destinations.He said that the Mumbai Police did so as probably it did not want the Bihar Police to encounter the media.Pandey said the Bihar Police wants the forensic science laboratory reports, inquest report, post-mortem report and relevant CCTV footage in order to facilitate the probe.The Bihar Police also wants details of those who were examined by the Mumbai Police and what they have said in their statements, the top police chief said.Replying to a question, he said, “Why would we ask for a CBI probe? Bihar Police is capable enough of probing the case. If needed, an IPS-rank officer may be sent to Mumbai to lead the investigation.”The chorus for a CBI inquiry into the death, which happened on June 14, is growing with parties cutting across the political lines in Bihar, demanding that the central investigating agency take up the case for a fair probe.The Bihar Police team reached Mumbai on July 27 and began its probe.The FIR was lodged under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including those pertaining to abetment of suicide and fraud.In his FIR, the father accused actor Rhea Chakraborty, who is said to have been in a relationship with Rajput, of having used his sons standing in Bollywood to promote her own career, trying to drive a wedge between him and his family, getting him fed with medicines for mental illness with the help of conniving doctors and blackmailing him with threats of making his medical history public to tarnish his public reputation.The bereaved father has also alleged that at least Rs 15 crore was withdrawn from his sons bank account to which Chakraborty and her family members had gained access and that barely a week before Rajput hung himself to death at his Bandra residence, the actress had visited his house and stolen his laptop, ATM card and other important documents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-police-cooperating-with-our-team-in-sushant-probe-bihar-dgp/story-e8gxOZUFWquMGZwX7UR31M.html
01-08-2020||India||New Education Policy aimed at building job creators instead of employment seekers: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said the Centre’s New Education Policy stressed on building job creators instead of job seekers and emphasized that the time had come for increased focus on learning, research and innovation in the field of education.“The 21st century is the era of knowledge. This is the time for increased focus on learning, research, innovation. This is exactly what India’s National Education Policy, 2020 does. We are focussing on the quality of education in the country. Our attempts have been to make our education system the most advanced and modern for students,” PM Modi told students at a virtual interaction.The Prime Minister was addressing students at the Smart India Hackathon 2020 grand finale, through video conferencing. This year, around 10,000 students are participating in the hackathon. The grand finale of Smart India Hackathon 2020 (Software) will be held from August 1 to 3.ALSO READ | Young India’s innovative solutions will help nation move forward in challenging times: PM ModiElaborating on the Centre’s attempts to transform the content and method of imparting education in the country, PM Modi said, “The New Education Policy-2020 announced earlier this week emphasizes on inter-disciplinary study, which will ensure that the focus is on what the student wants to learn instead of being compelled to learn.”He explained that the new education policy is about the spirit which reflects that the country’s students are gradually shifting from the burden of the school bag, which does not last beyond school, to the boon of learning which will help them for life, from simply memorizing study matter to encouraging critical thinking.He said the role of the youth was important for the nation to achieve its target of improving the ‘ease of living’ to provide a better life for the poor and needy.“Languages of India will develop more due to the changes brought about in the education policy. This will not only increase India’s knowledge but will also increase the unity among its people,” the Prime Minister told the students participating in the Smart India Hackathon 2020.The hackathon is a nationwide initiative to provide students with a platform to solve some of the critical problems people face in daily lives. It is also aimed at building a culture of product innovation and a mindset of problem-solving among students pursuing higher education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-education-policy-aimed-at-building-job-creators-instead-of-employment-seekers-pm-modi/story-V7XWe3j0DqWaNUVGOHI4bO.html
01-08-2020||India||‘Known for his friendships’: PM Modi remembers Amar Singh, condoles his death||Prime Minister Narendra Modi described Amar Singh as an “energetic public figure” who was “known for his friendships” across many spheres of life while expressing his condolences on the passing away of the former Samajwadi Party leader and Rajya Sabha MP.Amar Singh died on Saturday in a Singapore hospital, as per reports.“Amar Singh Ji was an energetic public figure. He was known for his friendships across many spheres of life. Saddened by his demise. Condolences to his friends and family,” PM Modi tweeted Saturday evening.WATCH | Amar Singh passes away in Singapore; tributes pour in from political worldMoments ago, defence minister Rajnath Singh, too, had described Singh, his fellow politician from Uttar Pradesh, as a leader with friends in every political party.Also Read: Rajya Sabha MP Amar Singh dies at 64“Saddened to know about the passing away of senior leader and MP Amar Singh. In his public life, he made friends in every political party,” Rajnath Singh’s tweet said.Rajnath also said that Amar Singh was full of energy and humorous in nature.Only a few days ago on July 10, Amar Singh had tweeted a warm birthday wish for Rajnath Singh.“Warm birthday greetings to our senior leader & honorable defence minister Shri@rajnathsingh ji. Pray for your long and healthy life in service of the nation.,” his tweet said.64-year old Singh has been ill for a very long time and was undergoing treatment in Singapore for the past few months. He had been regularly going to Singapore for treatment of a kidney ailment he suffered about 10 years ago.On March 2, he had posted a video message on Twitter to end speculations of his death.“Tiger Zinda Hai,” he had written in his short message accompanying the video.After leaving Samajwadi Party in 2010, Singh founded Rashtriya Lok Manch in 2011 and unsuccessfully fielded candidates in UP assembly polls in 2012. In 2014, he joined Jat leader Ajit Singh’s party, the Rashtriya Lok Dal. However, in his later days, he was quite supportive of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership. Recently, he had also expressed his support for Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath.He supported several key decisions made by the Modi government. Most recently he had hit out at the Congress party for questioning former chief justice of India, Rajan Gogoi’s nomination to Rajya Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/known-for-his-friendships-pm-modi-recalls-amar-singh-condoles-his-family/story-xfqYr8ONQsURqZSOuHMPNJ.html
01-08-2020||India||Covid-19 cases breach 1.50 lakh mark in Andhra Pradesh with 9,276 fresh infections||Coronavirus cases crossed the 1.50 lakh mark in Andhra Pradesh on Saturday as another 9,276 were added but a record high of 12,750 patients had recovered and been discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours. According to the latest government bulletin, the states Covid-19 cumulative tally showed 1,50,209 confirmed cases, 72,188 active, 76,614 recoveries and 1,407 deaths till 9 am on Saturday. The state completed 20,12,573 tests at the rate of 37,689 per million population, with a positivity rate of 7.46 per cent. Thanks to a record number of discharges in a day, the recovery rate again climbed to 51 per cent while the mortality rate dipped further to 0.94 per cent. Of the 58 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, East Godavari and Visakhapatnam accounted for eight each, Guntur seven, Anantapuramu, Chittoor and Kurnool six each. With 201, Kurnool became the first district in the state to register over 200 Covid-19 deaths while East Godavari is behind with 172. East Godavari, which tops the state with 21,271 total cases, showed a remarkable improvement on Saturday after 5,880 patients recovered in the last 24 hours and brought down the number of active cases to 7,782. But Visakhapatnam showed a worrying trend as it added another 1,155 new cases, pushing its overall tally to 11,920, with 8,698 of them active. Anantapuramu district also added 1,128 fresh cases, making its cumulative count 15,827, with 8,822 active. Kurnool recorded 1,234 and Guntur 1,001 more cases in the last one day, taking the aggregate to 18,081 and 15,669 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-cases-breach-1-50-lakh-mark-in-andhra-pradesh-with-9-276-fresh-infections/story-cVlBiwqNRj6xJXonKqnePP.html
01-08-2020||India||Will welcome rebels back if Cong high command forgives them: Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to get the alleged attempt to topple his government stopped and said he is open to welcoming back the Congress rebels led by Sachin Pilot. Answering queries from reporters, Gehlot said if the Congress high command forgives the dissidents, he will embrace them. Since the power tussle between him and Sachin Pilot resurfaced this month, the Congress veteran has used harsh words against his former deputy, once even referring to him as “nikamma” or useless. Gehlot said he will do whatever the Congress leadership wants and gave the party the credit for becoming the Rajasthan chief minister thrice. The chief minister was on his way back to Jaipur after an overnight stay at Jaisalmer’s Suryagarh resort, where loyalist MLAs have been shifted ahead of the assembly session from August 14. The Congress has accused the BJP of playing a major role in the rebellion by the now sacked deputy chief minister and 18 other Congress MLAs who are threatening his government. “We have no quarrel with anyone. In a democracy, fights happen over ideology, policies and programmes and not for toppling a government. “Modi should get stopped whatever is going on in Rajasthan,” the chief minister said outside the hotel where the MLAs were shifted Friday. Gehlot and the ministers are likely to spend most of their time in the state capital as the Congress tries to keep its numbers intact in Jaisalmer. He claimed that democracy is under threat in the country is and the Union Home Ministry is after his government in the state. He repeated the charge that the “rate” for trying to lure MLAs away has gone up after the announcement of the assembly session. Reacting to BJP state president Satish Poonia’s statement over the shifting of Congress MLAs to Jaisalmer, Gehlot called him a new leader who wants to take on former chief minister Vasundhara Raje. He commented that Raje has “disappeared” from the scene. Poonia had mocked the Congress, asking if the Gehlot loyalists will next move further westward across the border into Pakistan. MLAs from the Congress and its allies had remained confined to Fairmont hotel in Jaipur since July 13 before being flown to Jaisalmer on chartered flights. They are likely to visit Tanot Mata temple near the Pakistan border and some other places during their Jaisalmer stay, expected to continue till the assembly session begins on August 14. Gehlot recalled that he had informed Narendra Modi about the political situation in the state through a letter and a telephone conversation. He said he will write another letter to Modi asking him to call a video conference of all chief ministers again to review the Covid-19 situation. He said adequate testing for coronavirus is not taking place in some states while Rajasthan has increased its testing capacity to 40,000 per day. “We have done excellent Covid management in the state. The recovery rate is good, the death rate is less than 1 per cent,” he said. Including the rebels, the Congress has 107 MLAs in the 200-member assembly. The BJP has 72 MLAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-welcome-rebels-back-if-cong-high-command-forgives-them-ashok-gehlot/story-EP2Q4nfdNSTDjlneW4mVRJ.html
01-08-2020||India||CISF issues new social media policy, asks personnel to refrain from criticising govt||In a contentious decision, the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) on Friday issued social media guidelines for its personnel asking them to share their user IDs on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram etc and refrain from criticizing government policies on social media platforms, failing which strict legal and disciplinary action will be taken against the defaulters. The decision has not gone down well among the subordinates in the 1.40 lakh strong paramilitary force, which guards airports, metro, nuclear and space facilities apart from several sensitive government installations, who feel that the policy is unjust as social media keeps them entertained after long duty hours.The latest social media policy, issued by CISF headquarters in Delhi, say that, “Inspite of clear guidelines, there have been instances where social media platforms were used by the force personnel to share sensitive information about the nation/organization and to criticize the policies of the government.” HT has reviewed the copy of guidelines. Asserting that social media platforms pose a threat to the national security and the general discipline of the force, CISF has asked its men to “disclose their user ID of all social media platforms (Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, YouTube, etc) being used by them to the department, through respective units/formations”. The personnel have also been asked to inform the department in case of any change of the User ID or creation of new User ID. The CISF men have been strictly asked “not to create and use anonymous or pseudonymous User ID”. Further, the directive says that the “personnel should not use any social media platform to criticize the policies of the government on any matter”. The jawans have been informed that social media platforms shouldn’t be used as a tool to by-pass the chain of command and proper channel to air the grievances, according to the directive.“In case of any violation, strict legal and disciplinary action should be initiated against the defaulters as per existing laws and rules,” it added. The CISF top brass didn’t respond to HT’s calls or text. The PRO was also not available for comments. HT spoke to several serving officers in the CISF who said that the policy is “arbitrary”. “Better they should give us a basic phone and a 2G connection otherwise smartphone has no use for us if such policies are implemented,” said a company commander in CISF, who didn’t wish to be identified. Another commandant rank officer said that “we are mostly away from our families for months and social media is the only source to keep us entertained or express our opinions, which should not be taken away”. The government has lately expressed concerns over central paramilitary forces jawans’ and Group-A officers extensively using the social media platforms and also criticising government policies or seniors. For example, the direct recruit officers of the paramilitary forces, also called CAPFs (central armed police forces), have been campaigning on Twitter and Facebook for over two years now for parity in promotion and pay benefits at par with IPS officers. Last month, Indian army banned asked its personnel to delete 89 apps from their smartphones including Facebook, TikTok, Tinder, PUBG and Instagram to plug leakage of information. The decision was taken after the Centre banned around 59 apps, mostly Chinese, including Tik Tok. Earlier, in January 2017, when a Border Security Force (BSF) Constable Tej Bahadur Yadav posted a video on social media showing sub-standard food provided to the jawans at the border, the government had issued guidelines asking all personnel to not upload any content which may jeoparadise national security or follow the chain of command to address their concerns. Yadav was dismissed from the force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cisf-issues-new-social-media-policy-asks-personnel-to-refrain-from-criticizing-govt/story-DSRfegLXBW1H5F2JdzPQeP.html
01-08-2020||India||Five killed in boiler blast at factory in Nagpur district||Five workers were killed in a boiler explosion at Manas Agro Industries and Infrastructure Ltd in Maharashtra’s Nagpur district on Saturday afternoon, the police said.The incident took place near a biogas plant of the company at Bela village in Umred tehsil around 2.15 pm.The deceased were identified as Mangesh Prabhakar Naukarkar (21), Liladhar Wamanrao Shende (42), Vasudeo Ladi (30), Sachin Prakash Waghmare (24) and Prafull Pandurang Moon (25), all residents of Wadgaon village.Sachin Waghmare worked as a welder while others were helpers, the police said. Thick smoke billowed out of the plant following the explosion.All five workers sustained grievous burn injuries and died on the spot, the police said.Superintendent of Police Rakesh Ola visited the spot following the incident, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-killed-in-boiler-blast-at-factory-in-nagpur-district/story-8dj2ev17QBXrysiKVyjskN.html
01-08-2020||India||‘Stop the tamasha’: Gehlot appeals to PM Modi, cites increased horse trading ‘rate’||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has again made a public appeal for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention in the ongoing political tussle for power in Rajasthan. Gehlot had earlier made similar appeals to the PM and also written to him complaining about Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and other developments in the state.In his latest public appeal, Gehlot alleged that the ‘rate’ for allegedly buying out MLAs had increased in the state. He and his party colleagues have directly accused the BJP of involvement in alleged horse-trading attempts to uproot his government. “Prime Minister should stop the ‘tamasha’ going on in Rajasthan. The rate for horse-trading has increased here. What ‘tamasha’ is this,” ANI quoted Ashok Gehlot as saying in Jaisalmer.Gehlot had made a similar claim on Thursday saying the going rates for MLAs had increased from Rs 25 crore to “unlimited” amount ever since the governor agreed to call the assembly session on August 14. Gehlot has indicated that he will call for a trust vote to prove his government’s majority on the floor of the house during the session.Also Read: Rajasthan Congress goes to SC on disqualification, shifts MLAsThe embattled chief minister has shifted his flock to Jaisalmer alleging increased attempts by the BJP to buyout and threaten MLAs in his camp. He and around 100 other MLAs are now camping in a hotel in Jaisalmer. One of the ministers in his camp had yesterday claimed that the chief minister believed MLAs will be safer there till the beginning of the assembly session on August 14. Gehlot also reiterated his demand for resignation of Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat today saying Shekhawat had no moral authority to continue since he has been named in an alleged scam related to a cooperative society.“Gajendra Singh Shekhawat’s name has come up in Sanjivini Cooperative Society. Court has also directed in the matter. He should resign on moral grounds,” Gehlot was quoted by ANI as saying in Jaisalmer.Also Read: Rajasthan police told Sachin Pilot and other MLAs never stayed at Manesar hotelsCongress leaders in Gehlot’s camp claim that Shekhawat’s role in alleged horse trading attempts had been exposed by investigations conducted by the special operations group of the state. They also claim that he can be heard plotting Gehlot government’s downfall in one of the three audio clips that are being cited as proof of his guilt by the Congress. Gehlot’s government appears to have a wafer-thin majority with the support of around 101 MLAs excluding the speaker but with the inclusion of allies in the 200-member assembly. His former deputy and Congress rebel Sachin Pilot appears to have the support of 22 MLAs including 18 legislators from the Congress, who are said to be camping with him. The BJP has 74 MLAs in the assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stop-the-tamasha-gehlot-appeals-to-pm-modi-cites-increased-horse-trading-rate/story-xNxiMuBZrYDch0W31GZYwI.html
01-08-2020||India||Boiler blast at Dahej: NGT junks plea seeking review of payment of compensation for displacement||The National Green Tribunal has junked a plea filed by a company seeking review of its order directing payment of compensation for displacing people, after a huge fire caused by a boiler blast at Dahej in Bharuch district of Gujarat on June 3 resulted in the death of eight workers.The NGT had on June 8 slapped a penalty of Rs 25 crore on Yashashvi Rasayan Pvt Ltd and asked it to pay Rs 25,000 per person for displacement.It said there is no merit in the prayer of the company seeking review and that its order was passed after hearing the parties, and not based on media reports alone. “The facts mentioned in the order remained undisputed after opportunity to the applicant before passing interim order, pending giving further opportunity in due course. The order is not based on media report alone, as wrongly submitted. The order was passed after preliminary verification of facts and after notice to the present applicant. “Even now, neither the incident is disputed nor lack of adequate safeguards as per statutory mandate are disputed. Statutory onsite and offsite plans and their compliance are not shown. Liability of the applicant is absolute and compensation payable has to be deterrent,” the bench said.The tribunal said it is wrong to assume that there is no liability for displacement for 10-12 hours. “It is also wrongly assumed that nothing is to be spent for restoration of the environment. The applicant has filed a certificate from Panchayat that the displaced persons were brought back to their residence late night. “While authenticity of the certificate is yet to be examined, the affected persons certainly faced trauma, stress and inconvenience in being displaced from their respective houses on account of hazardous activities of the unit in question for which liability cannot be disowned,” the bench said.The green panel said the incident took place at 12 noon and displacement at least till late night for at least 10-12 hours, even as per the company. “During this period, the affected persons faced trauma, displacement from their houses and all consequential problems. It is too much to contend that they are not to be paid any compensation and such displacement does not cause any physical or mental harm to a person.“In our view, such displacement is certainly actionable wrong and any commercial establishment engaged in hazardous activity for commercial purpose is certainly liable to compensate such displaced persons. Displacement was at large-scale creating anxiety, fear, trauma, and misery,” the tribunal said.It said some families may have minor children or senior citizens, females who certainly are bound to greatly suffer by such large scale and sudden displacement from their houses. “Exact damage is to be fully ascertained but even as per conservative estimate, the amount of compensation of Rs 25,000 to each displaced person cannot, be held to be excessive, even on further consideration,” the tribunal said.“There is no golden scale to measure such loss and a reasonable estimate has to be the basis. Moreover, the applicant does not deserve any indulgence as it has not moved this Tribunal with clean hands,” the NGT said. It said the plea filed by the company is patently absurd as the order clearly and specifically required deposit even if the amount was not to be disbursed. The green panel said it has gone by conservative estimate and liability of the applicant is expected to be more than the said amount. It is against the interest of justice to further delay deposit and disbursement of the amount to the victims of the tragedy as almost two months have passed from the date of the incident, the NGT said.The NGT also constituted a six-member committee headed by former High Court judge Justice B C Patel and sought a report in a month. The committee also comprises representatives of environment ministry, Central Pollution Control Board, National Environmental Engineering Research Institute, National Institute of Disaster Management and Head of the Chemical Engineering Department of IIT Gandhinagar.The tribunal’s order came on a plea filed by NGO Aryavart Foundation through its president alleging that the company failed to follow requisite precautions and safety protocols.The NGO said the company is strictly and absolutely liable for the damage caused to the human lives, human health, property and the environment in violation of environmental norms. At least 50 workers of the chemical factory were injured while eight died on June 3 in the fire caused by a blast in the boiler at Dahej in Bharuch district of Gujarat.About 4,800 inhabitants of the nearby villages had to be moved to safer places on account of the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boiler-blast-at-dahej-ngt-junks-plea-seeking-review-of-payment-of-compensation-for-displacement/story-UHo1c3jbHrdQdMiDSRTpbI.html
01-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 PM: Probe ordered in Visakhapatnam crane crash that killed 11 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Visakhapatnam crane crashed while being commissioned; two probes orderedTwin probes have been ordered into the Visakhapatnam crane crash incident that has killed 11 people so far. Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy has also directed district officials to take immediate action in the case, as per information released by the chief minister’s office. Read moreFlying amid Covid-19? Check AAI’s statewise guidelines for air passengersKeeping the Covid-19 pandemic in view, the Airports Authority of India has shared a detailed set of statewise guidelines for quarantine norms and regulations to be undertaken by air passengers flyers. Apart from listing out the minimum mandatory quarantine period for passengers in various states, the guidelines also state various obligations on part of the airlines. Read moreEid ul Adha 2020: Safety precautions and measures issued by WHO to be observed during the celebration of BakridEid ul-Adha is a time of celebration, and the devotion and love of Ibrahim towards Allah is celebrated. It is also the time for offering prayer, feasting on that which has been sacrificed and partaking of the feast with the needy and providing them with alms. Muslims around the world gather at mosques to offer their prayers and interact with their relatives in celebration but this can be problematic considering the pandemic that the world is undergoing currently. Read moreYour browser experience is now more secure, Google’s added biometric checks to Chrome’s autofill securityGoogle has added a few security tools to protect your passwords and financial information saved on Chrome’s autofill better. One of these features will use biometric information, like fingerprint etc, to verify your identity when you want to use your credit card online. Read moreRare ‘space butterfly’ captured by ESO telescope leaves netizens awestruckEvery now and then, pictures and clips from outer space leave us awestruck. Recently, one such picture has piqued the attention of netizens with its beauty and chances are the photo will leave you awe-struck. Read moreEid-al-Adha 2020: Shah Rukh Khan posts pic of AbRam in prayer, Salman Khan shares photo and wishes from his farmSeveral Bollywood stars and celebrities extended Eid al-Adha wishes to their fans on Saturday. Actor Shah Rukh Khan. Priyanka Chopra, Salman Khan and others all shared messages of peace and prosperity on social media. Read moreWhen Shahid Afridi and Shoaib Akhtar came to Ashish Nehra’s aid ahead of 2011 World Cup semifinalAshish Nehra has revealed how former Pakistan cricketers Shahid Afridi and Shoaib Akhtar helped him secure tickets for the high-voltage semifinal of the 2011 World Cup between India and Pakistan. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-probe-ordered-in-visakhapatnam-crane-crash-that-killed-11-and-all-the-latest-news/story-8jee87jVgojZCSrALXyBZO.html
01-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Rhea Chakraborty ‘under watch’ of Bihar police||The Bihar police, who are in Mumbai to investigate an “abetment to suicide” case related to the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, said they were keeping a watch on his friend and actress Rhea Chakraborty.The four-member Bihar police team arrived in Mumbai on Wednesday to probe the ‘abetment to suicide’ case registered against Chakraborty and others in Patna.On Saturday the team visited the Bandra police station in connection with the investigation.When asked whether Chakraborty would be interrogated, an official of the Bihar police said, “It is not required as of now. But she is under our watch.” Another member of the visiting team said they have sent notice to Chakraborty under CrPC sections, asking her to cooperate with the police in the probe.He also said that the Mumbai police was cooperating with them in the investigation of the case.Krishna Kumar Singh (74), Rajput’s father, had lodged a complaint against Chakraborty and six others, including her family members, for alleged abetment to suicide, in Patna on Tuesday.The case was registered under various IPC sections including 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement), 380 (theft in dwelling house), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and 306 (abetment of suicide).Singh has accused Chakraborty, a budding TV and film actor, of having befriended his son in May 2019 with the intention of furthering her own career.Rajput was found hanging in his suburban Bandra apartment on June 14.Meanwhile, a Mumbai police official said that the visiting team has recorded the statements of six persons as part of the probe.“Till now, the police team from Bihar has met the late actor’s friends, colleagues and relatives. They have recorded the statements of six persons- Rajput’s sister, who stays in Versova, former girlfriend Ankita Lokhande, a cook, his friends and colleagues,” the official said.The police team is also likely to question the members of Rajput’s staff, he said.“They gathered information about Rajput’s various bank accounts and also visited the banks to look into the financial transactions,” he said.The visiting team had on Friday visited the Crime Branch office to submit an application seeking assistance from the Mumbai police in probing the case.As a large number of media persons gathered at the spot, the Andheri police personnel took the officers of the Bihar police in their vehicle for safety.A video of the Bihar police team being taken into the vehicle surfaced on social media with the netizens criticising the city police for their alleged mismanagement.When asked about it, the official said, “The issue was about the safety of the Bihar police personnel. The city police put the team members inside a van and dropped them at a safe place.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-rhea-chakraborty-under-watch-of-bihar-police/story-cadFEeNYjoBgdmvhZadiIN.html
01-08-2020||India||Young India’s innovative solutions will help nation move forward in challenging times: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that Young India is a storehouse of talent and brimming with innovative and creative solutions to the country’s problems, and with a little guidance students would go a long way in taking India forward amid the Covid-19 pandemic and the new global scenario that would emerge once the health crisis is over. “It was a huge challenge to conduct the Hackathon in the times of coronavirus. It is amazing to see it happening despite the severe challenges. I congratulate the participants and the organizers for rising to the occasion and making the event possible,” PM Modi said.The Prime Minister praised the concept of a rainfall prediction model that was put forward by one of the finalists and said that he appreciated the step and encouraged the student saying that the innovation if successful, would be of immense help to farmers in an agricultural country like India.The Prime Minister was addressing students at the Smart India Hackathon 2020 grand finale, through video conferencing. This year, around 10,000 students are participating in the hackathon. The grand finale of Smart India Hackathon 2020 (Software) will be held from August 1 to 3.“The Smart India Hackathon has emerged as a vibrant forum to ideate and innovate. Naturally, this time our youth would be focussing on the post-Covid-19 world in their innovations, along with ways to create an Aatmanirbhar Bharat,” PM Modi had tweeted earlier.The hackathon is being organised by the HRD ministry’s All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), Persistent Systems and i4c. At the beginning of the finale, Union HRD Minister Dr Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank announced that the winner would get Rs 1 lakh as a cash prize.The Prime Minister interacted with students from Shri Krishna College of Engineering and Technology, Tamil Nadu (Coimbatore), MLR Institute of Technology, Hyderabad, JECRC University, Jaipur, Graphic Era University, Dehradun and Chandigarh Engineering College and encouraged the youngsters to come forward with more innovative ideas.The hackathon is a nationwide initiative to provide students with a platform to solve some of the critical problems people face in daily lives. It is also aimed at building a culture of product innovation and a mindset of problem-solving among students pursuing higher education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-young-india-s-innovative-solutions-will-help-india-move-forward-in-challenging-times-pm-modi/story-X8NdyOoPoruLP1i1nUq6rN.html
01-08-2020||India||Schools, colleges in Assam may open on September 1||The Assam government has made preliminary plans to reopen educational institutions on September 1 but the final decision will depend on the directives of the Centre, state Education Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Saturday.All teachers and employees of the schools will have to get themselves tested, and the Education and Health departments will coordinate the efforts for the tests that will be conducted from August 23-30, the minister said while addressing a press conference here.“We have drawn up a preliminary plan for reopening schools but it is still open for further discussions with parents and other stakeholders, and will be implemented only in accordance with the directives of the Union government,” Sarma said.Schools will remain closed for students up to Class 4 till September-end, he said.Classes will be held in open spaces such as the playground or courtyard of the school for students of standard 5-8, he said.The classes will be divided into sections of 15 students and only these many students can attend classes at a time, he said.Students of standard 9 and 11 will attend classes in their classrooms for two days a week with 15 students being present at a time. Those in standard 10 and 12 will attend classes four days a week.Only 15 students will be present at a time in a classroom and classes will be held for only three hours in a day, the minister said.“Efforts will be made to ensure maximum social distancing with schools initiating shift systems with a particular class coming at an allotted time of the day,” he said.At the degree level, classes will be held only for the final semesters while for the post-graduate students, the universities will take a decision.All these proposals will be put up on the website of the Education Department and people are welcome to give their suggestions till August 20, Sarma said.“We will work on these suggestions but also wait for the Centre’s directive before taking a final decision,” Sarma said.The minister further said that the Secondary Education Board of Assam (SEBA) and Assam Higher Secondary Education Council (AHSEC) have also been asked to consider either reducing the syllabus or providing maximum options in the question paper so that students do not face any difficulty if a portion of the syllabus has not been covered. Educational institutions in Assam are closed since March 20, following the outbreak of the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-colleges-in-assam-may-open-on-september-1/story-onpAsLNSW8Yle9882Imo0L.html
01-08-2020||India||At 2.15% India’s Covid-19 fatality rate lowest since first lockdown: Health ministry||The country’s total number of recoveries from Covid-19 has surged close to 11 lakh, while the case fatality rate has declined from 3.33 per cent in mid-June to 2.15 per cent, the lowest since lockdown was clamped in March, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday.In the global platform, India continues to register and maintain the lowest Covid-19 mortality rate, it said and asserted that this is a testimony to the focused, coordinated, pre-emptive, graded and evolving “test, track, treat” strategy and efforts of the Centre, states and Union Territories.With 36,569 patients discharged in 24 hours, the total number of recoveries has jumped to 10,94,374 on Saturday and exceed active Covid-19 cases by 5,29,271. There are 5,65,103 active cases in the country at present, according to health ministry data updated at 8 am on Saturday.“The recovery rate stands at 64.53 per cent,” the ministry said.“Emphasis on early detection through aggressive testing and effective clinical management of the hospitalised cases have resulted in the continuously falling case fatality rate (CFR), indicating that India has been able to successfully contain the fatality rate of Covid-19,” it said.While the CFR has been kept low, successful implementation of effective containment strategy, aggressive testing and standardised clinical management protocols based on a comprehensive standard of care approach have resulted in a consistent addition of more than 30,000 recoveries daily, the health ministry said.It also said that three-tier hospital infrastructure with seamless patient management has ensured prompt triaging and treatment.As on Saturday, there are 1,488 dedicated Covid hospitals with 2,49,358 isolation beds, 31,639 ICU beds, 1,09,119 with oxygen support and 16,678 ventilators. Also, 3,231 dedicated Covid Health Centres with 2,07,239 isolation beds, 18,613 ICU beds and 74,130 oxygen-supported beds and 6,668 ventilators have been made operational. Moreover, 10,755 Covid Care Centres with 10,02,681 beds are now available to combat Covid-19, the ministry said.The Centre has also provided 273.85 lakh N95 masks and 121.5 lakh personal protective equipments (PPEs) and 1083.77 lakh hydroxychloroquine tablets to the states, Union Territories and central institutions so far.India saw a record single-day increase of 57,118 infections, pushing India’s Covid-19 tally 16,95,988 on Saturday, while the death toll climbed to 36,511 with 764 people succumbing to the disease in the same period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-2-15-india-s-covid-19-fatality-rate-lowest-since-first-lockdown-health-ministry/story-SgHYPoV9QaOdW5c6yiveVL.html
01-08-2020||India||In a first, river-landscape based approach used to rejuvenate 50-km-long Heval river in Uttarakhand||Uttarakhand is conducting the country’s first river-landscape based approach to rejuvenate the 50-kilometre (km)-long Heval river in Narendra Nagar forest division in Tehri Garhwal district, which has over one lakh people across 167 villages dependent on it. The project is the brainchild of Indian Forest Service (IFS) officer Dharm Singh Meena, divisional forest officer (DFO), Narendra Nagar forest division. Meena said the maiden river rejuvenation project not just focuses on the water body but the entire landscape. Heval river, one of the many tributaries of the Ganges, originates as Khuret Gaad from the forests, near Surkanda Devi and Nagdevta temple in Tehri Garhwal district. It is a perennial river in the Chamba block that is used for both drinking water and irrigation. “This is for the first time in the country that any river is being studied from its origin until its mouth for rejuvenation. So far, we have identified 38 springs that flow into the river. We found that water from maximum springs is being tapped and used as drinking water. This is the primary reason behind groundwater depletion. We are trying to work on the treatment of the entire river landscape in a bid to encourage locals to enjoy the benefits of sustainable living,” said Meena. Officials have identified 38 and 15 springs and streams, respectively, of the river in a 30-km stretch from its origin during their geological and hydro-geological studies. The work is in progress for the remaining 20-km stretch.Raw water pond, trenches, check dams, and afforestation have been proposed along with erosion control as part of the stream-shed treatment activities. “Recharge pits, staggered contour trenches, pine-needle check dams, brushwood check-dams, random rubber walls check dam, crate wire check dams, among other initiatives, have been undertaken. The aim is to gradually reduce water’s velocity and then store the water naturally along with checking soil erosion. Over the years, these engineering structures will be replaced by vegetative measures, as part of the comprehensive eco-friendly initiative,” the official added. Young brushwood was used for making check dams, as it has fibrous roots that will grow into trees and gradually help prevent soil erosion and also naturally recharge the groundwater level. Plans are afoot to rope in 18 van panchayats for afforestation activities in river landscape and workers will be deployed under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), 2005, scheme. The official said that the main indicator of the project showing results is the increase in water level in six springs during summer. “Earlier, the water used to be very less in these springs during summer, but now villagers are requesting us to install a pumping system to ensure that water reaches their villages. This shows that we are succeeding in the rejuvenation work, whose results will become apparent in a year or two,” said Meena. Officials have noticed the increase in the water table at certain springs, as the water discharge has risen from one litre per minute to 1.85 litre per minute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-first-river-landscape-based-approach-used-to-rejuvenate-50-km-long-heval-river-in-uttarakhand/story-YbX2JYyvc00kJEOdEoxJYL.html
01-08-2020||India||One held for allegedly thrashing man transporting meat in Gurugram, FIR registered||One person was arrested on Saturday accused of allegedly publicly thrashing a 27-year-old man Lukmaan transporting meat in his vehicle in Haryana’s Gurugram. Police officials said an FIR has been registered in the case, news agency ANI reported. “A person carrying meat in a truck was stopped, beaten up and taken away by a group of men. He sustained severe injuries. When police intercepted, this group created a ruckus. One person named Pradeep has been arrested,” ACP Gurugram Pritpal Singh said, reported ANI.The video of the incident was shared widely on social media on Friday. In the video, a man is seen seated on the ground and being thrashed by foot, as onlookers around him stand and record the incident on mobile phones. The video also showed the group of men kicking and dragging the pick-up driver, while one of them used a small hammer to hit the victim multiple times. One of the videos showed a policeman standing next to the victim, dressed in a T-shirt and track-pants, while several people were seen witnessing the violence unfold, reported news agency PTI. According to the police officials, Lukmaan was also chased by some men on motorcycles. “Victim Lukmaan told the police that he was transporting buffalo meat in his pick-up truck from Nuh to Sadar Bazar area of Gurgaon. When he reached Gurugram, he was chased by some men on motorcycles. He sped away but got waylaid and thrashed by them,” Gurugram police PRO Subhash Boken told PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-held-for-allegedly-thrashing-man-transporting-meat-in-gurugram-fir-registered/story-ylZ3C2FsFxMhWWXSVKarCI.html
01-08-2020||India||Rajya Sabha MP Amar Singh dies at 64||Rajya Sabha member Amar Singh died at a Singapore hospital on Saturday. Singh had been undergoing treatment at the hospital for several months and had lately been admitted to its intensive care unit. He was 64.Leaders across the political spectrum condoled Amar Singh’s death and said he was one of those politicians who had friends in all partiesThe flamboyant businessman-politician, who once counted India’s most influential icons from industry, politics and Bollywood among his closest friends, had been a key player in the cut and thrust of Indian politics till about a decade ago. Back in 2008, he also helped the then Manmohan Singh government survive a crucial trust vote that eventually led to his arrest three years later. He was accused of offering bribes to three BJP MPs to get them to support the UPA.WATCH | Amar Singh passes away in Singapore; tributes pour in from political worldIt was a chance encounter with Samajwadi Party founder Mulayam Singh Yadav on a flight back in 1996 that led him to enter politics. He joined as its general secretary and soon became Mulayam Singh Yadav’s crisis manager and the face of SP in Delhi’s power circles.Back in Lucknow, there were other power centres in the SP that he didn’t get along with. Amar Singh was expelled from the party in 2010 after being blamed by Akhilesh Yadav for the defeat of his wife Dimple from Firozabad.Amar Singh spoke about his retirement from politics later but ended up launching his political party but it did not work out. He and his party lost every election it fought, often also the security deposit. He joined Ajit Singh’s Rashtriya Lok Dal but didn’t get far either.In 2016, Mulayam Singh Yadav eventually helped him win the Rajya Sabha election. But when son Akhilesh Yadav took the baton from his father, he had Amar Singh expelled from the party the next year. Singh continues to be an unattached member of the Rajya Sabha, occasionally Amar Singh, who had a kidney transplant in the Singapore hospital more than a decade back, continued to face health issues and was again admitted to the hospital earlier this year.From his hospital bed on March 2, Singh denied rumours that suggested he had died. He posted a 2-minute long video to clarify his health status and stressed that he was fighting back. “Tiger Zinda Hai,” he wrote in his short message.He also posted a short video message on March 22 from the hospital bed, appealing to all his supporters to back Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the fight against coronavirus.His Twitter handle remained active till hours before the news of death emerged.His last two tweets were a tribute to freedom fighter and educationist Bal Gangadhar Tilak on his death anniversary. In another tweet, he wished his friends on the occasion of Eid Al Adha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-mp-amar-singh-dies-at-64/story-QJ6pIYq4SVe6drwNBBKb4K.html
01-08-2020||India||WHO suggests Ahmedabad Covid-19 measures as case study:Gujarat govt||The World Health Organisation (WHO) has appreciated the management of Covid-19 in Gujarat’s Ahmedabad and suggested to take up various measures being implemented in the city as a case study for rest of India and other countries, the state government said on Saturday.WHO chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan has appreciated the Covid-19 management in Ahmedabad, it said.The WHO has suggested to take up initiatives in Ahmedabad like ‘Dhanvantari Rath’, 104 fever helpline, Sanjivani Van; and active participation of private hospitals in control and treatment as a case study for other cities in India and abroad, it said.Meanwhile, Gujarat has also steadily ramped up testing for Covid-19 diagnosis from 64,007 in April to 3,91,114 in July, which the government said is thrice the rate suggested by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).The patient recovery rate in Gujarat has improved to 73.09 per cent, “which is much higher than other states”, while the Covid-19 mortality rate has declined to 3.97 per cent, an official release said.The government under Chief Minister Vijay Rupani has been working on the formula of “testing, tracking and treatment” ever since the first Covid-19 case was detected in Gujarat on March 19, 2020, it said.The number of tests for coronavirus has increased steadily. At the rate of 410.83 tests per day per million tests as on July 31, the government has achieved a rate that is nearly thrice the rate of 140 suggested by the ICMR, it said.Till July 31, Gujarat had tested a total 7,64,777 samples including 3,91,114 in July, which is the highest in a month since the outbreak of the virus on March 19, the release said.A total of 64,007 samples were tested in April, 1,47,923 in May, and 1,61,733 in June, it said.“The patient recovery rate in Gujarat is much higher than other states at 73.09 per cent while the death rate has dropped to 3.97 per cent,” the release said.The CM has suggested house-to-house health check-up be made available in cities through municipal authorities to detect infected patients, it said.As of July 31, Ahmedabad district contributed 26,517 Covid-19 cases in the total count of over 61,000 in Gujarat, as per health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-suggests-ahmedabd-covid-19-measures-as-case-study-gujarat-govt/story-iwDwFuelA6hVtkIqM287dP.html
01-08-2020||India||Tripura Covid-19 patient jumps to death from hospital’s third floor||A day after a 31-year-old man tested positive for Covid-19, he jumped off a window at the Govind Ballabh Pant (GBP) hospital in Agartala on Saturday. The patient from Muhuripur village in South District was admitted at the state-run hospital on Friday with poisoning symptoms. During his admission, he underwent a mandatory rapid antigen test in the hospital and he was detected Covid-19 positive, the police said. “After taking statements from the hospital staff and knowing the patient’s recent history of suicide attempts, it appears that he was suffering from depression due to some reasons. So far, we have not got any evidence of harassment at the hospital. Our investigation is on,” said officer in-charge of GB Police Outpost Rakesh Patoari. A nurse in the hospital, on condition of anonymity, said that the patient was shifted to the Covid-19 ward at around 11.00 pm. Late at night, the man jumped off the building’s third floor. The doctors and paramedical staff who were on duty, started treatment as he was alive when he was found. During treatment, he died in the early hours of Saturday.Earlier in June, an elderly woman, a Covid-19 patient died by suicide in the GBP hospital. The state registered a total of 4,996 Covid-19 positive patients of whom 3,327 have recovered and been discharged. A total of 23 Covid-19 patients have died so far including the two who died by suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-covid-19-patient-jumps-to-death-from-hospital-s-third-floor/story-JlDYkEVTzEiXWgjGlEjThM.html
01-08-2020||India||New Education Policy drops Chinese, after listing it in draft version||Chinese has been given a miss in the list of foreign languages offered to students at the secondary school level in the National Education Policy (NEP), which was launched earlier this week.The list has French, German, Japanese, Korean, Spanish, Portuguese, Russian and Thai as electives that students can take up to “learn about cultures of the world and enrich global knowledge... according to their own interests and aspirations”.However, a draft version of the NEP, released last year, did list Chinese, along with French, German, Japanese and Spanish as examples of languages to be “offered and available to interested students” as electives.The approved NEP released by Union ministers Prakash Javadekar and Ramesh Pokhriyal on Wednesday omitted Chinese. The step has come amid a stand-off with China after the brutal brawl in eastern Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on June 15 during which 20 Indian Army soldiers were killed by Chinese troops. Tensions between the two countries escalated following the Galwan Valley face-off.India had banned 59 Chinese-origin mobile phone apps, including social media platforms such as TikTok and WeChat, in June in view of the information available that they are engaged in activities which are “prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity and defence” of the country. After that, 47 other Chinese apps, which were variants and cloned copies of the 59 apps banned earlier.After the fresh ban on 47 clones of prohibited Chinese apps, Beijing said it will take “necessary measures” to safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese companies.Chinese embassy spokesperson Ji Rong said in a statement that India’s June 29 ban on 59 mobile apps with Chinese background “severely damaged the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese companies”, “The Indian government has the responsibility to protect the legitimate rights and interests of international investors in India, including Chinese businesses, in accordance with market principles,” she added.The ban orders for the Chinese apps and their clones are among a string of economic measures unveiled by India in the wake of the months-old border standoff with China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-education-policy-drops-chinese-after-listing-it-in-draft-version/story-qy6C8aRi8zpqEeaE2RidGK.html
01-08-2020||India||Flying amid Covid-19? Check AAI’s statewise guidelines for air passengers||Keeping the Covid-19 pandemic in view, the Airports Authority of India has shared a detailed set of statewise guidelines for quarantine norms and regulations to be undertaken by air passengers flyers. Apart from listing out the minimum mandatory quarantine period for passengers in various states, the guidelines also state various obligations on part of the airlines. Here’s taking a look at statewise guidelines for air pasengers under ‘Unlock 3’:DelhiCovid-19 test is not required for incoming passengers in Delhi. Thermal screening will be done for all passengers upon arrival. International passengers are required to go through 7 days of institutional quarantine at a government facility at no charge or paid quarantine at designated hotels, followed by 7 days of home quarantine. For domestic passengers, 7 days of home quarantine is mandatory. Constitutional and government functionaries and their staff members are exempted from 7 days of home quarantine. All passengers must download Aarogya Setu App.Also read: Mask, social distancing will be crucial even after Covid-19 vaccine Attention!To address concerns regarding quarantine norms in different states, here are the latest State-wise Quarantine Regulations for Domestic Passengers (as of 30th July 2020). Please visit- https://t.co/S4MK5nsBJK. These regulations are placed under 'Important Notices'.HaryanaCovid-19 test is not required for incoming passengers. Thermal screening will be done for all passengers upon arrival and 14 days of home quarantine is mandatory. All passengers must download Aarogya Setu App.Himachal PradeshCovid-19 test is not required for incoming passengers. Thermal screening will be done for all passengers upon arrival. 14 days of institutional quarantine for passengers arriving from any Red Zone district outside of Himachal Pradesh or passengers having ILI (Influenza Like Illness) symptoms irrespective of the zone from where they are arriving. 14 days of home quarantine for passengers arriving from any Red Zone district outside of Himachal Pradesh and are carrying Covid-19 negative test report from ICMR authorized lab which should not be older than 48 hours from the date of departure. Jammu & KashmirCovid-19 test is mandatory here for incoming passengers, except for the defense personnel. Institutional quarantine for all passengers until test results are available. If test results are positive, they will be sent to Covid-19 facility/hospital for treatment and recovery. On negative test result, mandatory home quarantine 14 days from the date of testing. There are certain exceptions to quarantines protocols in Jammu and Kashmir. The detailed guidelines can be accessed from ‘AAI Important Notices’ section on AAI’s website. Madhya Pradesh Madhya Pradesh has separate guidelines for incoming passengers to Bhopal and Indore. For arrival in Bhopal, thermal screening and health profiling shall be done upon arrival. If a passenger is found symptomatic, Covid-19 test to be performed. Institutional quarantine till test result is available. If the test result is positive, a passenger shall be sent to Covid Care Centre after which the passenger may be required to re-test followed by home quarantine. On a negative result, further quarantine is not required. No quarantine for business and corporate travellers. Passengers are required to undergo Covid-19 test at the airport if advised by the health authorities.PunjabCovid-19 test shall be performed on a random basis Thermal screening will be conducted for all passengers. For international passengers 7 days institutional quarantine is mandatory followed by 7 days of home quarantine. Domestic passengers are required to go through 14 days of mandatory home quarantine. All passenger must register on COVA Punjab App before commencing their journey. COVA Punjab App registration will be checked for each passenger. Uttar PradeshThermal screening and health profiling shall be done upon arrival. For international passengers 7 days institutional quarantine is mandatory followed by 7 days of home quarantine. Domestic passengers are required to go through 14 days of mandatory home quarantine. Passengers exiting Uttar Pradesh within 7 days of arrival shall be exempted from mandatory quarantine subject to validation of return/onward travel. Passenger will need to register on state website before they exit the arrival hall at the airport. AssamThermal screening, health profiling and Covid swab testing will be done upon arrival. Antigen tests are available at Guwahati, tests results are available within 60 minutes. Assam has two days of mandatory institutional quarantine for incoming passengers followed by 8 days of home quarantine. Passengers are also required to fill a health declaration form. Some exceptions to institutional quarantine norms have also been issued which include pregnant ladies, elderly people above 75 years of age. BiharThermal screening will be conducted upon arrivals. No quarantine for passengers. All passengers must download Aarogya Setu App.West BengalThermal screening shall be done for all passengers. Symptomatic passengers shall be taken to the nearest facility for Covid-19 test. 14 days of self-monitoring for all asymptomatic passengers is advised. For symptomatic passengers, the health authorities will decide the quarantine requirement as required. Aarogya Setu App and health declaration is mandatory. GujaratThermal screening shall be done for all passengers. Domestic travellers who are asymptomatic will not be quarantined, however, they will be required to monitor their health for 14 days. International passengers need to go under 7 days of institutional quarantine, followed by 7 days of home quarantine. Passengers will have to fill and submit a self-reporting form at the airport.It is mandatory for all passengers arriving at Surat to fill online “Novel corona self-reporting form” and download “SMC COVID-19 Tracker” app. RajasthanThermal screening shall be done for all passengers. Covid-19 test shall be done for all symptomatic passengers. 14 days of voluntary home quarantine for all passengers. Symptomatic passengers shall be isolated and taken to the nearest health facility. Aarogya Setu App and health declaration is mandatory for all passengers. MaharashtraThe state has a wide-ranging guidelines for passengers arriving across various destinations such as Aurangabad, Pune, Shirdi, Nagpur, Mumbai and Kolhapur. For passengers arriving in Mumbai, thermal screening is mandatory. International passengers are required to go through 7 days of institutional quarantine, followed by 7 days of home quarantine. For domestic passengers, 14 days of home quarantine is mandatory. All domestic passengers intending to exit Mumbai within 7 days of the arrival shall be exempted from quarantine, provided they are able to produce a confirmed ticket for onward/return journey. Airlines to share a detailed list of arriving passengers with arrival flight, time, mobile number and residential address with the nodal officer. Andhra PradeshThermal screening shall be done for all passengers. Ten percent of randomly selected people and preference to people of more than 60 years age and children of less than 10 years coming by domestic air mode by taking test swab at airports itself.14 days of home quarantine mandatory for domestic passengers. 7 days of institutional quarantine for international passengers. Test may be conducted between 5th and 7th day and based on the result a follow-up action to be initiated. All passengers to download Aarogya setu App and register themselves on Spandana website. TelanganaThermal screening shall be done for all passengers. All international passengers shall be sent to 7 days of institutional quarantine at a government facility or at paid designated hotels. Health authorities to decide on the quarantine requirements for all other symptomatic passengers. KarnatakaThermal screening, health profiling of all passengers. Covid-19 swab test for symptomatic passengers as well as those passengers seeking quarantine exemption. All asymptomatic passengers arriving from other states in Karnataka shall be required to undergo 14 days home quarantine.All symptomatic passengers shall be moved to COVID Care Center for further tests. If the result is positive, passengers shall be moved to dedicated COVID Hospital. On a negative result, passengers shall be sent for home quarantine to complete the remaining quarantine period of 14 days. Exemptions to quarantine also available under various circumstances such as in case of pregnancy, death in family, among others. Tamil NaduCovid-19 test will be conducted for passengers coming to Chennai from Maharashtra, Gujarat and Delhi. Covid-19 test to be conducted for passengers arriving into any other airport of Tamil Nadu from any state, at the discretion if of health officials. Health officials can also order a test for passengers travelling within Tamil Nadu at their discretion. Thermal screening shall be done for all passengers.Passengers to undergo 14 days of home quarantine. For symptomatic passengers, institutional quarantine till Covid-19 test results are available at the discretion of health officials after which, they will be required to complete the remaining period of 14 days of home quarantine. All passengers must download Aarogya Setu App, register on state website and obtain TN e-pass. Note: Detailed statewise guidelines for air passengers can be accessed from the AAI website under the section ‘AAI Important Notices’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flying-amid-covid-19-check-aai-s-statewise-guidelines-for-air-passengers/story-IdehC0JJ4OWNmedgR5PmWM.html
01-08-2020||India||Ram temple coming up with consent of every Indian, says Congress leader Kamal Nath||A Ram temple is being constructed in Ayodhya with the consent of every Indian, Madhya Pradesh Congress chief Kamal Nath said on Saturday, four days ahead of the foundation laying ceremony.Nath’s colleague Digvijaya Singh said former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi also wanted the temple to come up.“I welcome the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. People of the country were expecting and wishing for this since long. The construction of the temple is being carried out with the consent of every Indian. It’s possible only in India,” Nath said in a video message.Singh said Lord Ram is at the centre of everybody’s faith.“The centre of our faith is Lord Ram!And today, the country is being run with trust in the Lord Ram. That’s why we all wish that a grand temple should be built at the birthplace of Ram in Ayodhya. (late PM) Rajiv Gandhiji also wanted the same,” he tweeted.Singh, however, questionned “muhurt” (auspicious time) for the ground breaking ceremony for the construction of temple, slated to be held on August, 5 in the likely presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“If we talk about ‘muhurt’, then more than 90 per cent of Hindus in this country will be those who believe in religious science like ‘muhurt’, ‘grihdasha’, ‘astrology’, ‘choghadiya’ etc. (sic),” he said.“I am neutral to the fact that there is no ‘muhurt’ for the foundation laying on August 5. This is playing with the religious sentiments and beliefs (sic),” the Congress leader said.When asked about Singh’s tweets, MP Home Minister and senior BJP leader Narottam Mishra said, “Some people have a habit of criticising, and whenever they speak, they seek to find evil in the good. (Unknowingly) even in their criticism, they have at least taken the name of Lord Ram”.Mishra said it was the Congress which had tried to delay the construction of the temple.“Kapil Sibal and other big leaders of Congress stood against the (construction) of Ram temple in court and kept saying in the supreme court that Lord Ram was an imaginary character.“They said there was no ‘Ram Setu’. They should think now. Lord Ram is everywhere in this country,” Mishra told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-temple-coming-up-with-consent-of-every-indian-says-congress-leader-kamal-nath/story-02lhI5LFbYCAbjEb942z1K.html
01-08-2020||India||Death toll in Visakhapatnam shipyard crane accident rises to 11||Eleven people were killed when a huge jetty crane crashed on them at Hindustan Shipyard Limited (HSL), a Government of India undertaking, at Visakhapatnam on Saturday afternoon, the officials said. Visakhapatnam District Collector V Vinay Chand told reporters that the accident happened when the workers were testing the load capability of the crane weighing 70 tonnes. The base portion and the overhead cabin got separated, resulting in the collapse of the crane on the ground with loud thud, he said.  #WATCH A crane collapses at Hindustan Shipyard Limited in Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh. 10 dead and 1 injured in the incident, says DCP Suresh Babu. pic.twitter.com/BOuz1PdJu3Also read: Vizag is a wake-up call to ensure industrial safety | HT EditorialAll the 11 workers were crushed to death on the spot as they came under the massive iron structure. There were 10 persons in the cabin of the crane including three employees of Greenfield company, two of Lead Engineers and one from Squad7, apart from four permanent employees of Hindustan Shipyard Limited. “All of them died when the cabin crashed. The bodies of the victims have been retrieved and sent for post-mortem,” he said, adding that no one was injured in the mishap. While one victim could not be identified immediately, the other 10 deceased were identified as R Venkat Rao, Chaitanya, Ramu, P V Ratnam, P Naga Demudu, Satyaraj, Shiva Kumar, P Bhaskar, K Jagan and K Prasad. The collector, who inspected the mishap site, said that jetty crane was originally erected by Anupam Cranes of Mumbai two years ago, but had not been commissioned for regular operations as the company backed out. Later, the HSL outsourced the operations of the crane to Greenfield Company, which co-opted Lead Engineers and Squad7 Company for maintenance operations. “These contractors have commenced the full load trials now and the testing was being done when the tragedy occurred,” Vinay Chand added. Also read | Vizag gas leak: All you need to know about Andhra Pradesh chemical plantChand said the HSL had initiated an inquiry by an internal committee, headed by its Director (Operations), while chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy has ordered an independent probe by committee of engineers, comprising heads of departments of civil, mechanical and electrical engineering of Andhra Engineering College, to investigate the cause of the crane accident. “The committees will probe if there is any human negligence that caused the mishap,” the collector said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-workers-crushed-to-death-after-crane-collapses-in-visakhapatnam-shipyard/story-O5Wmjs1NfAITQ2fvKpluSI.html
01-08-2020||India||Mask, social distancing will be crucial even after Covid-19 vaccine: Scientist||People will have to keep wearing masks and follow social distancing protocols even after a vaccine against the coronavirus comes along, a top US vaccine developer has said.Maria Elena Bottazzi, the associate dean of the National School of Tropical Medicine at Baylor College of Medicine, has said in an interview that the vaccine will probably reduce but not completely eliminate the chance of an inoculated person contracting the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), caused by Sars-Cov-2. “They automatically are going to say, ‘Oh great, I’m just going to get my little vaccine, and I can go back and do exactly the things I was doing last year’. That is absolutely not true,” Bottazzi said in the interview to Business Insider. More than 150 vaccine candidates in different stages of clinical trials across the world and 26 of them have reached the human trial phase. And out of these 26, five potential vaccines candidates have reached the Phase III or last stage of clinical trials.Under the last phase, thousands of volunteers from different age groups are being injected with the vaccine candidate to test its safety and efficacy.Moderna, Pfizer, and AstraZeneca are among the companies developing coronavirus vaccines that could be ready for emergency use soon. In India, two vaccine candidates are being tested on humans.Volunteers across the country are being administered the indigenous vaccine candidates against the coronavirus disease developed by Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL) and Zydus Cadila.Bharat Biotech and Zydus were granted permission for Phase I and II clinical trials of Covaxin and ZyCoV-D respectively and the pharmaceutical companies have said the first doses of their vaccine candidates were administered to volunteers in July.A third vaccine candidate developed by Oxford University and backed by AstraZeneca Plc will soon be tested in India. Serum Institute of India is in a manufacturing partnership with the UK’s AstraZeneca. The Pune-based Serum Institute has said it will be starting trials of the Oxford University’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate by the end of August on up to 5,000 Indian volunteers after getting the necessary nods and launch it by June next year if all goes well.According to Moderna, it began a pivotal trial called a phase 3 study on Monday which will show how well its vaccine works. The other companies have said they plan to begin similar research within weeks. Bottazzi, the Texas-based scientist, said in the Business Insider interview that these first vaccines won’t be a magic solution for the coronavirus pandemic that even if they are successful.“The moment you get a vaccine doesn’t mean you’re going to put your mask in the trash, she said. That is not going to happen. I hope people don’t think that is going to be the magic solution for all,” she said.It all boils down to how effective these vaccines are going to be and Bottazzi said the first Covid-19 vaccines may reduce the disease but may not prevent infection. She said in the interview that she expects these vaccines are unlikely to be perfect. More than 17.5 million people have been infected by Sars-Cov-2 and 678,775 have died across the world, according to the coronavirus tracker of Johns Hopkins University. India, the third worst-hit country, has seen nearly 1.7 million infections and 36,511 fatalities till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mask-social-distancing-will-be-crucial-even-after-covid-19-vaccine-scientist/story-RzEKADAQU4wNR4H10iWgUL.html
01-08-2020||India||Bihar citizens can now register for Covid-19 test, check info on disease management on ‘Sanjivan’ app||The Bihar health department has developed ‘Sanjivan’, a mobile phone application (app) that facilitates coronavirus disease (Covid-19) test and also provides updated information put out by the state government about the raging viral outbreak. The user-friendly app helps an individual to register for Covid-19 test, apply for self-quarantine at home and also gives elaborate details about nearest testing and Covid Care Centres, hospitals and availability of beds in those healthcare facilities. Follow latest updates on coronavirus here It also contains district-wise emergency helpline numbers, a chatbot option on FAQs (frequently asked questions), IEC (information education and counselling) material on SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease. The app, which became operational on Saturday morning, has an option to requisition an ambulance. It can be downloaded via the health department’s portal at http://health.bih.nic.in/31-07-2020/sanjivan.apk. The department also has district helpline numbers for those who don’t have access to the mobile app. The helpline numbers have a back-up of 10 available lines in case the primary number comes engaged because of congestion due to high volume of calls. The department is also working towards providing the testing facility at an individual’s doorstep in collaboration with private laboratories. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “We will fix rates for collecting swab samples from home in a bid to avoid crowding at test centres,” said Pratyaya Amrit, principal secretary, health, Bihar and the brain behind launching the app. Amrit took charge of the health department on Tuesday (July 28) amid the state’s battle to fight the pandemic The state government has capped Rs 2,500 as the maximum cost to conduct the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test at a private laboratory. While an additional Rs 300 is likely to be added for the collection of swab samples from home. A user, who will register for the rapid antigen detection (RAD) test, will get a registration number and an OTP (one-time-password). The user can then visit the nearest testing centre and share the OTP, which will substantially lessen the time that takes for the elaborate registration process. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage The test report will be available through an SMS (short message service) on the registered mobile number. “We are building a module, where test result will be available on the app within the next couple of days,” said Amrit. The app has done away with the concept of making a visit to the district magistrate’s (DM) office and stand in a queue to physically apply for self-quarantine at home. The SMS on test result will also have another OTP, which will enable a user to apply for self-quarantine at home. The app also allows a user to see the availability of beds in dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. “Now, Covid-19 patients don’t need to run from pillar to post in search of hospital beds. We will closely monitor the availability of beds that will cause a lot of convenience for those suffering from the viral infection,” Amrit added. Bihar, which has been drawing flak for the poor count of daily tests, conducted 22,742 tests on Friday, an 8,000 plus jump, following the change of guard in the health department earlier this week. On Saturday, the daily test figure was 28,624, almost double since Amrit took charge, and it would be further ramped up to 30,000 in the coming week, officials said. Bihar reported the biggest spike in Covid-19 cases with 3,521 new infections on Saturday, taking its overall case tally to 54,508. The 14 Covid-19 deaths on Friday took the state’s death toll to 312.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-citizens-can-now-register-for-covid-19-test-check-info-on-disease-management-on-sanjivan-app/story-v4Rbygqy4Oje52qJneyyFI.html
01-08-2020||India||DGCI detects evasion of GST by 2 liquor manufacturers in Maharashtra||The Directorate General of Goods and Services Tax Intelligence (DGGI) has found alleged evasion of GST collectively worth over Rs 108 crore by two liquor manufacturers in Aurangabad and Nanded districts of Maharashtra.The DGGI Nagpur zonal unit, in a statement issued on Friday, said that tax evasion came to light following searches conducted on July 28 and 29 at the two liquor manufacturing units.“The searches revealed that while the taxpayers were paying GST on a part of the clearances of alcohols not fit for human consumption, the clearances of an extremely large quantity of alcohols not fit for human consumption were suppressed and such clearances were neither being reflected in the GSTR 3B returns filed by them nor was any GST being paid on such clearances,” it said.The total amount payable by them under Rule 6 of the CENVAT Credit Rules, 2004 is estimated to be Rs five crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dgci-detects-evasion-of-gst-by-2-liquor-manufacturers-in-maharashtra/story-uSRABGtzE79zW53EAo3cgL.html
01-08-2020||India||‘Speeding horror’: Over 1,000 fined for over speeding on Agra-Lucknow expressway in July||Incidents of over speeding on Agra-Lucknow expressway seems to show no sign of abating. In July alone, 1,038 cases of speed limit violation on the expressway were reported and fines were levied almost every day of the month. According to a report by HT’s Hindi language publication Live Hindustan, drivers are breaking speed standards on the expressway with some driving at a speed as high as 194 kilometre per hour (kmph). While the permissible speed limit on the expressway ranges between 80 to 100 kmph, the average speed recorded by the vehicles was reported between 120 to 160 kmph.Some commuters were reported to be driving at twice the speed that is permitted. Not just car drivers but buses have also been reported for speeding at the expressway.In July, fines were levied almost every day on commuters for over speeding. Most incidents were reported during the night time. Of 1,038 cases of over speeding last month, more than 100 vehicles were being driven at a speed of over 150 kmph. There were 400 vehicles that were run between 130 to 140 kmph. Around 300 commuters drove at the speed of 160 to 180 kmph, while about 200 vehicles ranged between 120 and 140 kmph. Over speeding and rash driving have also led to accidents on the expressway. In a recent incident, six people were killed and at least 20 others injured when a private bus fell off the expressway after colliding with another vehicle last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/speeding-horror-over-1-000-fined-for-over-speeding-on-agra-lucknow-expressway-in-july/story-YRWwlClBjkhDuRiC6TDq5O.html
01-08-2020||India||Karnataka student stabs mother to death for rebuking him for staying out till late: Police||Irked by his mother rebuking him for staying out with his friends late in the night, a college student stabbed her to death in Mandya town, following which he has been arrested, police said.The student was arrested on July 30, a police official told PTI on Friday.He said the woman was upset over her son frequently spending time with his friends till late in the night.On Wednesday, she scolded him for not listening to her advice, following which he stabbed her to death, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-student-stabs-mother-to-death-for-rebuking-him-for-staying-out-till-late-police/story-hV9IIpIRSVtQanOirDpegO.html
01-08-2020||India||Tight security arrangements, Covid-19 protocols in Ayodhya ahead of Ram temple event||Security arrangements and preparations for the foundation stone-laying ceremony of Ram Temple in Ayodhya, Uttar Pradesh are in full swing. Speaking to news agencies on Saturday, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Ayodhya, said Covid-19 protocols and preventive measures are in place. The ceremony will take place on August 5. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will visit the city on Sunday to take stock of the preparedness ahead of the event. “Requesting everyone to not let more than 5 people gather at a place. We’ve also planned route diversions at 12 places to ease traffic movement,” the SSP noted. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation stone of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya on August 5 after which the construction of the temple will commence in Ayodhya. Also read: Young and Covid-19 negative policemen to be deployed for PM Modi’s Ayodhya visit Security arrangements for foundation stone laying ceremony of Ram Temple on August 5 in place. COVID protocols will be followed. Requesting everyone to not let more than 5 people gather at a place. Also planned route diversions at 12 places to ease traffic movement: Ayodhya SSP pic.twitter.com/FXt0pSvUpqFor PM Modi’s visit to Ayodhya, Covid 19 negative police personnel below 45 years of age will be deployed. Other VVIPs likely to participate in the ceremony include chief ministers of many states, union cabinet ministers and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat.“The inner security ring will be handled by Special Protection Group (SPG) officers. But the police personnel, who have tested negative for the infection as well as those kept in reserve in complete isolation, would preferably be deployed closer to the inner security ring of the PM,” UP director general of police (DGP) Hitesh Chandra Awasthy said on Friday.The Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust, set up in accordance with the Supreme Court verdict, held its second meeting earlier this month. In March this year, the Ram Lalla idol was shifted to a temporary structure. The apex court, on November 9 last year, had directed the central government to hand over the site at Ayodhya for the construction of Ram temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tight-security-arrangements-covid-19-protocols-in-ayodhya-ahead-of-ram-temple-event/story-AJEgg1NQxv39aceoWKo6WL.html
01-08-2020||India||Prashant Bhushan, Arun Shourie and N Ram challenge Contempt of Courts Act in SC||Senior journalist N Ram, former Union minister Arun Shourie and advocate Prashant Bhushan moved the Supreme Court (SC) on Friday challenging the validity of section 2(c)(i) of Contempt of Courts Act, which criminalises publication of any matter that could scandalise or lower the authority of courts. The petitioners contended that the provision is violative of freedom of speech under Article 19 of the Constitution and effectively gags discourse on matters of public importance. “It violates right to free speech and expression guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a). It is unconstitutional as it is incompatible with the preambular values and basic features of the constitution,” the plea said. The SC had recently invoked the provision to issue notice to Bhushan for his tweets against Chief Justice of India (CJI), SA Bobde and the apex court. It was submitted that the provision raises a prior restraint on speech on matters of public and political importance by criminalising criticism of court in sweeping and absolute terms. “The offences of scandalising the court is rooted in colonial assumptions and objects and have no place in legal orders committed to democratic constitutionalism,” the petition said. The Contempt of Court at provides for civil and criminal contempt. Civil contempt is defined under Section 2(b) as wilful disobedience to any judgment, order or direction of a court or wilful breach of an undertaking given to a court. Section 2(c) deals with criminal contempt and attempts to punish publication of any material or commission of any act against courts. This provision has three sub-clauses, which explain when such a publication or act could amount to criminal contempt. First, if such publication or act scandalises or lowers the authority of any court (sub –clause i), second, if it prejudices or interferes with any judicial proceeding (sub-clause ii) and third, if it interferes with or obstructs administration of justice (sub-clause iii). The petitioners have challenged only sub-clause (i), which criminalises any publication or act on the ground that it scandalises or lowers the authority of the court. The provision, it was contended, has an extremely wide import and is incapable of objective interpretation. “For example, an interrogation by a traffic constable about whether the red beacon on the hood of a judge’s car was held to be contempt on the ground of scandalising the court,” the petition stated. It was argued that the provision uses vague terminology, whose scope and limits are impossible to demarcate. “In particular, the terminology ‘scandalises or tends to scandalise’ invites subjective and greatly differing readings and applications. It violates Article 14, which demands equal treatment and non –arbitrariness,” the plea added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prashant-bhushan-arun-shourie-and-n-ram-challenge-contempt-of-courts-act-in-sc/story-SonUaEOL5K7wMVGMSqqanN.html
01-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Monthly sero survey to map Covid-19 trend in Delhi begins today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi to conduct sero surveillance from today to map Covid-19 trend Serological survey for Covid-19 in Delhi will begin from Saturday, health minister Satyendar Jain said. describing the process a technical one but significant in the fight against the disease. Read more ‘US tested 60 mn, India at 11 mn’, says Trump to improve standing on Covid-19President Donald Trump is fighting back against criticism of his administration’s handling of the Covid-19 epidemic. And he has zeroed in on India for comparison to make him look good. Read more Chidambaram terms extension of Mehbooba Mufti’s detention abuse of law, calls for immediate releaseIn a series of tweets, the former Union finance minister questioned how former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, who he said is a “protected person under security guard round the clock”, can be a threat to public safety. Read more ‘Incomparable contribution to freedom movement’: Amit Shah’s tribute to Lokmanya Tilak on 100th death anniversaryRemembering freedom fighter Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak on his hundredth death anniversary, Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday said that Tilak dedicated his entire life to India’s freedom struggle. Read more Netflix now lets you watch content faster or slower as you wantNetflix has started rolling out playback controls for Android users. The streaming started testing this feature last year. Netflix will start testing playback controls for its iOS and web app soon. Read more ‘He learned by himself’: Kapil Dev names the most hardworking player he has seenKapil lauded Pakistan’s 1992 World Cup-winning captain Imran Khan and called him the hardest working player he has seen. Read more Kartik Aaryan shares his favourite moment from Sushant Singh Rajput’s Dil Bechara Kartik Aaryan on Friday watched Sushant Singh Rajput’s Dil Bechara all over again. He shared what was for him the most touching moment from the film. Read more Shashi Tharoor shares note Rabindranath Tagore wrote to Jawaharlal Nehru after reading his autobiographyShashi Tharoor, MP for Thiruvananthapuram, took to Twitter on July 30 to post an image which encapsulates the essence of nostalgia. The picture dates back to 1936, according to the tweet. Read more Maruti returns to monthly sales of over a lakh in July; 88.2% rise over JuneMaruti Suzuki on Saturday informed it had sold a total of 108,064 units in the month of July, including one lakh units in the domestic market itself. Read more Here’s how to be a good friend, spend time together and more this Friendship DayFriends are the families we choose and they’re always around when you need them -- whether it is to share a joke, a piece of gossip, or even to lighten our mood in stressful moments. One can always count on them, and at the same time be grateful for all the love. Read more ‘TikTok may be banned in US,’ says President Donald TrumpThe United States may ban Chinese-video sharing app TikTok, said President Donald Trump, amidst rising tensions between Beijing and Washington on a range of issues. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-sero-survey-to-map-covid-19-trend-in-delhi-begins-today-and-all-the-latest-news/story-dxAqeSqsHHMtXDO5phNKgM.html
01-08-2020||India||Bengal’s Buxa reserve to get 6 Royal Bengal tigers from Kaziranga||The West Bengal forest department is bringing six tigers to Buxa Tiger Reserve in Alipurduar district, as part of its effort to augment the population of big cats in the national park, an official said on Saturday.The six big cats are being brought from Kaziranga National Park in Assam, Chief Wildlife Warden Ravikant Sinha told PTI.“Arrangements have been made to ensure safe and smooth transit of the animals,” he said.Sinha said the government wanted to increase the population of Royal Bengal tigers in BTR, the largest forest in North Bengal with an area of 745 sq-km.“Recently, two Royal Bengal tigers have been spotted in Buxa through our camera traps. These two big cats were seen from various locations of the core area of the forest. So, at least two tigers are there already and we need to raise the number,” Sinha said.The six tigers are being relocated from Kaziranga to Buxa as these two reserve forests have similar habitats, the official said.The BTR, which is spread over the plains and foothills, has about 390 sq-km of core area and is home of 73 mammal species including leopard, chital deer and wild boar.The forest department had recently launched a short film about the BTR, the official said.The film was handed over to the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) to create a buzz about the reserve forest nationally, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-s-buxa-reserve-to-get-6-royal-bengal-tigers-from-kaziranga/story-KDObJ8RKOV75reiRD0WwaL.html
01-08-2020||India||Badrinath shrine’s prasad can now be ordered online on Amazon||The Chamoli district administration has tied up with e-commerce major amazon.com for online delivery of prasad for the devotees of Badrinath, the shrine of Lord Vishnu, as the pilgrims visit to the sacred temple have gone down appreciably because of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak, officials said.A devotee will get five items as part of the “Panch Badri Prasadam”, whose order can be placed on amazon.com.Chamoli district is home to Panch Badri temples dedicated to Lord Vishnu such as Badrinath, Adi Badri, Bhavishya Badri, Vridha Badri, and Yogdhyan Badri. Swati S Bhadauria, district magistrate (DM), Chamoli, explained the reason behind the digital initiative. “The aim of making the prasad available online is to reach Lord Badrinath’s devotees across the length and breadth of the country. It will also provide a livelihood to women, who are associated with self-help groups (SHGs) amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic,” the DM said. She said about 90 women from 18 SHGs are involved in making the prasad that is being delivered online for devotees, whose visits to the shrine have appreciably gone down because of Covid-19 that has hit the livelihood of a section of Chamoli residents hard.“We are making the prasad available in two forms -- in an attractive jute bag and a beautiful box. Each packet will contain five items, including a coin of Lord Badrinath, holy water of river Saraswati, herbal dhoop (incense stick), Himalayan Damask rose water, and fragrant Badri Tulsi, which is offered to Lord Badrinath. The cost of prasad for the jute bag is Rs 372 and the one in the box is for Rs 322,” said the DM.She said the prasad is available from an outlet near the shrine since last year. “However, the district administration thought of making it available online this year because of the pandemic. The initiative will also help the SHGs to earn a livelihood amid these hard times,” she added. Earlier, the administration of Rudraprayag district, which hosts the Kedarnath shrine, also started the online delivery of Lord Kedarnath’s prasad from July 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/badrinath-shrine-s-prasad-can-now-be-ordered-online-on-amazon/story-fwFfPaluFXn2KQP6wpVmoJ.html
01-08-2020||India||Sero surveillance begins in Delhi, findings to help map Covid-19 trends||Another phase of serological survey for Covid-19 began in Delhi on Saturday. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain described the process a technical one but significant in the fight against the disease. The minister also said that the coronavirus situation in the national capital is improving. “On the directions of Hon’ble CM Shri @ArvindKejriwal, the Delhi govt has begun monthly sero-survey in the city from today. The survey conducted in June showed 24% Delhi residents have developed antibodies. This will aid the govt to tailor it’s strategy to changing circumstances,” read a tweet posted by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office. On the directions of Hon'ble CM Shri @ArvindKejriwal, the Delhi govt has begun monthly sero-survey in the city from today. The survey conducted in June showed 24% Delhi residents have developed antibodies. This will aid the govt to tailor it's strategy to changing circumstances. pic.twitter.com/BLMc2NU4QXLast month, Jain had announced that the administration will conduct sero survey across the national capital every month. The health minister said that the exercise will be carried out from the 1st till the 5th of every month. The findings from the last sero surveillance in Delhi suggested that the national capital has crossed its Covid-19 peak.Also read: Another one-day spike of over 57,000 Covid-19 cases pushes India’s tally to nearly 1.7 million Serological Survey for #COVID19 will start from today in Delhi. In the last survey, 24% people came positive. This is a very technical process but will be conducted across the capital: Satyendra Jain, #Delhi Health Minister https://t.co/1OqMex1BnRThe survey reported that, on an average, 23.48 percent of the residents across the national capital have developed Covid-19 antibodies. The study, which was conducted by the National Center for Disease Control (NCDC) also indicated that a large number of patients remain asymptomatic. The survey was conducted between June 27 and July 10.Findings from the sero survey serve as important data to guide containment strategies - an exercise, that experts believe, is essential to be carried out periodically to know the exact burden of the disease and device appropriate strategies. The national capital has reported over 80 percent Covid-19 rate with over 1.2 lakh people beating the disease or being discharged from the hospital. The Covid-19 death toll in Delhi stands at 3,963 while the number of active cases is nearly 11,000. In a sharpest single-day rise, India reported 57,118 new Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours. With this, the country’s coronavirus caseload nears 1.7 million. The country’s Covid-19 death toll stands at 36,511 - fifth highest in the world while nearly 11 lakh people have recovered from the infection across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-to-conduct-sero-surveillance-from-today-to-map-covid-19-trend/story-QFY1SyiltvsI9LldnW9PnL.html
01-08-2020||India||CBI books son of Gaursons chairperson in bank fraud worth Rs 80 crore||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has booked Rahul Gaur, the son of real estate group Gaursons’ chairperson BL Gaur, and his wife Navneet for allegedly cheating the Bank of Baroda (BoB) and Syndicate Bank of Rs 80 crore.The company owned by Rahul Gaur, Brys International Private Limited, had taken a loan of Rs 250 crore—Rs 150 crore from BoB and Rs 100 crore from Syndicate Bank—for developing a high-end residential complex comprising 291 luxury apartments in Noida’s Sector 150.The total loss in the case is Rs 80 crore, according to the agency’s first information report (FIR).According to the complaint filed by Bank of Baroda, the initial deposits by buyers should have been credited to the escrow account but it was not done.“The project was abandoned by the borrowers at the initial stage itself and the account turned NPA on 31.12.2015. It is also alleged that the above mentioned accused company persons have diverted the funds as per their convenience instead of utilizing them for the purpose for which the credit facilities were obtained,” it said.The document said that the forensic audit of the company’s account showed round-tripping and diversion of funds, opaque functioning and misrepresentation of facts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-books-son-of-gaursons-chairperson-in-bank-fraud-worth-rs-80-crore/story-kVnBFglLDBpWvljXTANI4O.html
01-08-2020||India||Chidambaram terms extension of Mehbooba Mufti’s detention abuse of law, calls for immediate release||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Saturday condemned the extension of PDP’s Mehbooba Mufti’s detention, saying the decision of the Jammu and Kashmir administration was an “assault” on people’s constitutional rights. Mufti, the Peoples Democratic Party’s chief, has been held in detention under the Public Safety Act (PSA) since August 5, 2019. The Union territory’s administration has extended her detention by another three months.In a series of tweets, the former Union finance minister questioned how the 61-year-old former chief minister, who he said is a “protected person under security guard round the clock”, can be a threat to public safety.“The extension of the detention of Ms Mehbooba Mufti under PSA is an abuse of law and an assault on the Constitutional rights guaranteed to every citizen,” the former Union minister tweeted.“She rightly rejected the offer to release her on conditions which any self-respecting political leader would refuse. One of the reasons given for her detention — the colour of her party’s flag — was laughable,” he said.He also asked why Mufti cannot speak against the abrogation of Article 370 and whether it was not a “part of the right to free speech”.“I am one of the Counsel appearing in a case in the SC challenging the abrogation of Art 370. If I speak against Art 370 — as I must — is that a threat to public safety? We must collectively raise our voices and demand “FREE MEHBOOBA MUFTI IMMEDIATELY,” he added.The detention order of the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister was scheduled to lapse on August 5. Mufti is among 20-odd political leaders in the Valley who continue to remain under detention.She will continue to remain under detention at her official residence, which had earlier been declared a subsidiary jail, according to the order issued by the home department. A person can be kept under detention for up to two years under PSA.However, People’s Conference chief Sajjad Gani Lone was released in Srinagar.A number of other prominent politicians, including two former chief ministers, Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah, have also been released from detention. They were arrested in August last year, hours after the Centre proposed the revocation of Article 370, which granted special status to the state of Jammu and Kashmir, and proposed the bifurcation of the state into two Union territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chidambaram-terms-extension-of-mehbooba-mufti-s-detention-abuse-of-law-calls-for-immediate-release/story-Fzj8w6sWG8OeUPL7UmZ3rM.html
01-08-2020||India||Eid-Al-Adha: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar extends wishes, urges people to remain alert amid Covid-19||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday extended greetings to the people on the occasion of Eid-Al-Adha.“My greetings to people on the occasion of Eid-Al-Adha. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, it is imperative for everyone to remain alert,” he tweeted.Eid al-Adha or Bakrid, also known as “Sacrifice Feast” is marked by sacrificing an animal, usually a sheep or a goat to prove devotion and love for Allah. Post the sacrifice, devotees distribute the offering to family, friends, neighbours and especially to the poor and the needy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eid-al-adha-bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-extends-wishes-urges-people-to-remain-alert-amid-covid-19/story-FP9eoxjuZ3iQPA4Y7WnUtK.html
01-08-2020||India||‘No coal mining in Hasdeo Arand’: Coal ministry accepts Chhattisgarh govt proposal||Pralhad Joshi, Union minister for coal and mines, on Friday said the ministry has accepted the proposal of the Chhattisgarh government to exclude five coal blocks in Hasdeo Arand, one of country’s most pristine forest areas, and other bio-diversity-rich areas from commercial mining, but has also acceded to include three new ones in a bid to reduce the country’s coal import bill. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced on June 17 the auction of 41 coal mines for commercial mining by private players following which the Jharkhand government had moved the Supreme Court objecting to the bidding process because the state governments were not consulted. Chhattisgarh government had also objected and asked the coal ministry not to allow the auction of coal blocks which fall under Hasdeo Arand, Lemru elephant reserve and the Mand river catchment area that is a part of the biodiversity-rich forests. On Thursday, Joshi had met Jharkhand government officials and discussed the sticking point about the bidding process. Later, he told media persons that he had requested Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren to reconsider his government’s stand on commercial mining. “We are importing 250 million tonnes of coal every year because of the shortage. The Centre wants to compensate the shortage by opening up coal blocks for commercial mining,” Joshi had said. Soren, however, stuck to his stand and insisted that the Centre should have discussed the issue with state governments. On Friday, Joshi met Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel and said that the latter has agreed to replace the five contentious coal blocks with three new ones, which would be added to the list for auction as per the state government’s suggestion. “At present, the total number of coal blocks put on auction in Chhattisgarh for commercial mining shall be seven (instead of nine earlier). Three new coal blocks will also be added to the list,” the minister said. Of the nine coal blocks, five fall under Hasdeo Arand, including Morga -2, Morga (South), Madanpur north, Shyang, and Fathehpur (east). The other four coal blocks are Gare Palema (4/1), Gare Palema (4/7), Shankarpur Bhatgaon (second extension) and Sondhia. On June 20, in a letter to Joshi, Chhattisgarh forest minister Mohammad Akbar had said, “Coal block between Hasdeo Arand and Mand river area also proposed for auction by the Union government … However, recently, there has been an increase in the numbers of wild elephants in the state, which has led to a spike in human-elephant conflict. For providing habitat for wild elephants, 1,995 square kilometres of forest area around Hasdeo river has been declared as Lemru elephant reserve. The process of issuing notification has started,” the state forest minister had said in the letter. Akbar said commercial mining in the area had to be stopped in a bid to ensure human lives are not lost due to man-elephant conflict. Joshi said the meeting with CM Baghel was positive and the commencement of commercial coal mining would usher in a new era of growth and development in Chhattisgarh. “Under commercial coal mining, the state will fetch a minimum of Rs 4,400 crore revenue in one year. It will also create around 60,000 additional employment. Additionally, commercial coal mining will contribute around Rs 25 crore to the various district Mineral Foundation (DMF) funds of the state that can be used for inclusive development of regions surrounding coalfield areas,” Joshi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-coal-mining-in-hasdeo-arand-coal-ministry-accepts-chhattisgarh-govt-proposal/story-VlyluqQtbv0OPd6hK01h3H.html
01-08-2020||India||‘US tested 60 mn, India at 11 mn’, says Trump to improve standing on Covid-19||President Donald Trump is fighting back against criticism of his administration’s handling of the Covid-19 epidemic. And he has zeroed in on India for comparison to make him look good.“Testing wise, we’ve tested almost 60 million people throughout the country, which is about six times more than any other country -- close to six times more than any other country,” Trump said in Florida on Friday, and added for comparison, “If you look at India, they’re at 11 million.”It was not a chance reference, but a part of a concerted narrative from the administration.Follow latest updates om coronavirus here White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany set it up at a briefing earlier in the day: “Indeed, we’ve done more than five- -- 59 million tests; with India at number two, with just about 14 million tests. So quite a difference there.”India has conducted 18,190,382 Covid-19 tests, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research.But the White House pressed ahead with the India comparison. It released a statement just hours before Trump’s remarks, claiming Trump had created “the best Covid-19 testing system in the world”.“We are now averaging 810,000 tests per day, and during July, more than 930,000 COVID-19 tests were conducted in a single day,” the White House statement said.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage “India has a population more than four times as large as the United States, but has only conducted around one-third of the number of tests.”South Korea is the country cited most often as the gold standard for others to follow the world over, including in the United States, for its aggressive testing and contact tracing that helped it prevent a raging epidemic despite a scary early flare-up. It’s a touch act to follow. As Italy, Spain and France.But President Trump prefers comparisons with India.“As countries go, it is -- as an example, India is up to 11 million tests,” he told reporters at the daily White House briefing on the Covid-19 outbreak that he resumed recently under mounting criticism of his response to the epidemic. “We’re going to be very shortly at 55 million tests. India has 1.4 billion people.”Also read: Another one-day spike of over 57,000 Covid-19 cases pushes India’s tally to nearly 1.7 millionLast week on July 23, Trump told reporters at the briefing, “Second in the world is India, which has 1.4 billion people, and they had 12 million tests.” The US, he had said moments before, “broke the 50 million-test mark”.It was India again the day before, on July 22: “Today, we surpassed -- first time -- we surpassed 50 million tests. That’s far more than any country in the world. India is second, we believe. We think -- 1.4 billion people; that’s about 12 million tests. We have 50 million tests.”And then the day before again: “We’re leading the world. And I think the second country at 12 million. We’re -- we’re going to be over 50 million tests. Second country is India with 12 million.”President Trump’s on-and-off engagement with the country’s worst health crisis in 100 years has become a key liability for him as he seeks a second term. Approval for his handling of the epidemic plunged to a new low in an AP-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research released Sunday. Only 32% of those polled approved of his performance, marking a 12-point drop from a similar poll in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-tested-almost-60-mn-india-at-11-mn-says-trump-to-improve-standing-on-covid-19/story-TM8Wv3CGbm08rh16RqIvGN.html
01-08-2020||India||Soldier from Himachal killed as Pakistan violates ceasefire in J-K’s Poonch||An Indian Army soldier was killed on Friday night after Pakistan violated the ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district, officials said on Saturday.According to officials, 24-year-old Sepoy Rohin Kumar was critically injured and later succumbed to his injuries as Pakistani troops violated the ceasefire in Balakot sector of Mendhar sub-division.“Pakistan Army resorted to an unprovoked ceasefire violation on the Line of Control (LoC) in Rajouri Sector (J&K). Own troops responded strongly to the enemy fire,” Lieutenant Colonel Devender Anand said in a release. “Sep Rohin Kumar was a brave, highly motivated and sincere soldier. The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty,” Anand added.Kumar was a resident of Hamirpur district in Himachal Pradesh, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-soldier-killed-as-pakistan-violates-ceasefire-in-j-k-s-poonch/story-kZLMCuYZKbaJm7Ks3NAv4H.html
01-08-2020||India||Another one-day spike of over 57,000 Covid-19 cases pushes India’s tally to nearly 1.7 million||India reported its biggest one-day rise in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as 57,118 people tested positive and 764 died in the last 24 hours, which pushed its tally to nearly 1.7 million, data from Union health ministry showed on Saturday.There are 1,695,988 cases of the viral disease, including 36,511 deaths, as of Saturday morning, according to the health ministry’s dashboard.More than a million cases were added to the country’s infection tally in July—from 585,493 on July 1 to 1,638,870 on July 31—and the death toll went up to 35,747 from 17,400 in the same period.The recovery rate stands at 64.52% after 1,094,374 patients—36,569 between Friday and Saturday morning—have been cured so far. The gap between active cases, at 565,103, and recovered cases now stands at 529,271.The surge in numbers came as the country entered the third phase of Unlock from Saturday. Unlock 2.0, in which the government had eased some restrictions after the 68-day hard lockdown, ended on Friday. It was the second of a three-phase plan aimed at lifting restrictions imposed to stop the spread of the infection.The Centre had issued guidelines for the third phase of lifting curbs imposed to stop the spread of the coronavirus disease on Wednesday, announcing that gyms and yoga centres can reopen from August 5, while also removing a night curfew that restricted movement of people outside containment zones.The new guidelines, which came into effect from Saturday, said that a strict lockdown will continue in containment zones – areas that report clusters of the disease – till August 31 and asked authorities to maintain strict perimeter control in such zones.The latest guidelines said that schools, colleges, theatres, swimming pools, metro rail, cinema halls and bars will continue to remain closed. Social, political, religious, sports and entertainment functions and other large congregations will also not be allowed.Data has shown that new hotspots are emerging in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh, away from the previous hotbeds of Maharashtra, Delhi and Tamil Nadu.As on one of the strategies to contain the spread of the pandemic, authorities will start the second serological survey for Covid-19 in Delhi and around 15,000 blood samples—half of which will be from people between the ages of 18 and 49 —will be collected till August 5.The exercise is an epidemiological survey covering a representative population – the number of people, where they reside, their age and gender is meant to reflect the city’s demographics and who the outbreak affects.Globally, there are more than 17.5 million people who have been infected and 678,775 have died so far, according to the coronavirus tracker of Johns Hopkins University. India is the third worst-hit country after the United States and Brazil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-one-day-spike-of-over-57-000-covid-19-cases-pushes-india-s-tally-to-nearly-1-7-million/story-Y9SHbSQP3t9yqXIIC61xjK.html
01-08-2020||India||Congress leader PC Sharma tests positive for Covid-19||Congress leader and Madhya Pradesh MLA PC Sharma has tested positive for Covid-19. Sharma took to Twitter on Saturday and confirmed the same, urging those who recently came in contact with him to get tested for the disease. “Appeal-: My corona report has come positive, I am getting hospitalized. People who came in contact with me, get your investigation done. Thank you..” Sharma tweeted. Also read: MP govt talks about ban on political programmes, Congress says it wants to target opposition अपील-:मेरी कोरोना रिपोर्ट पॉजिटिव आई है , मैं अस्पताल में भर्ती हो रहा हूं। कृपया कर मेरे संपर्क में आये हुए लोग , अपनी-अपनी जांच करवा लेवें। धन्यवाद।।#PcsharmaincSharma is a member of Madhya Pradesh’s 14th Vidhan Sabha from Bhopal Dakshin-Paschim constituency. This comes just a week after chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan tested positive for Covid-19 last week. Chouhan took to Twitter on Saturday and wished a speedy recovery to Sharma.“Got the news of MLA Shri @pcsharmainc Jee being unwell. I pray to God to get him well soon,” the chief minister tweeted. विधायक श्री @pcsharmainc जी के अस्वस्थ होने का समाचार मिला। मैं ईश्वर से उन्हें शीघ्र पूर्ण स्वस्थ करने की प्रार्थना करता हूं।In a series of tweets last week, CM Chouhan urged people not to be afraid of Covid-19. “We should fight it with full confidence,” he said, emphasising the importance of social distancing and other preventive measures like washing hands and wearing masks. He asked people to come forward for testing and report their symptoms at the earliest for timely treatment. “If you have contracted the infected, there is no need to fear, if you show symptoms, do not hide them, report immediately so that the treatment can be started on time. Timely treatment will make you healthy,” he tweeted.Chouhan tested positive for the coronavirus disease last Saturday and has been working remotely, conducting meetings via video conferencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-pc-sharma-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-C2c5YPScwPUqai2RHckAeN.html
01-08-2020||India||Eid Mubarak: President Kovind, PM Modi greet people on Eid al-Adha||President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were among several leaders who extended their greetings on Eid al-Adha, which is being observed by Muslims across the country on Saturday amid the coronavirus pandemic.They also urged people to follow protocols and guidelines to contain the pandemic while celebrating the festival also known as Bakrid.“Eid Mubarak! Idu’l Zuha symbolises the spirit of sacrifice and amity which inspires us to work for the well-being of one and all. On this occasion, let us share our happiness with the needy and follow social distancing norms and guidelines to contain COVID-19 spread,” President Kovind tweeted.“Eid Mubarak! Greetings on Eid al-Adha. May this day inspire us to create a just, harmonious and inclusive society. May the spirit of brotherhood and compassion be furthered,” PM Modi posted on Twitter.Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu also extended his “warm greetings and good wishes” to the people of the country on Eid-ul-Adha.“May this Id-ul-Zuha bring peace, harmony and prosperity in our lives, country and the world,” Naidu tweeted. Delhi: People exchange greetings after offering prayers at Jama Masjid on #EidAlAdha, today. pic.twitter.com/gRxw98BgR6“Under these circumstances, we have to be content with a modest celebration and strictly adhere to the safety protocols of wearing masks, practicing physical distancing and personal hygiene during all our celebrations,” he wrote.“I extend my warm greetings and good wishes to the people of our country on the auspicious occasion of Id-ul-Zuha. Id-ul-Zuha is a celebration of unswerving devotion to God and the boundless compassion and love the Almighty has for His creation,” he added.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also tweeted his wishes. आप सभी को ईद अल-अज़हा मुबारक।Greetings for Eid al-Adha. pic.twitter.com/CWytdhK7H2Eid-ul-Zuha is the festival of sacrifice observed by Muslims on the tenth day of the Dhu al-Hijjah, the twelfth month of the Islamic calendar. Muslims mark the festival by sacrificing an animal, usually a sheep or a goat, to prove their devotion and love for Allah. After the sacrifice, the offering is distributed to family, friends, neighbours and especially to the poor.Devotees offered namaz in mosques across the country, including at Delhi’s Jama Masjid, on the occasion of Eid al-Adha as followed the norms of social distancing. News agency ANI tweeted pictures of devotees being checked with thermometer gun as a precautionary measure to contain the spread of the virus. “We have ensured strong arrangements here. In fact, we have ensured a safe environment in several big and small mosques on this occasion. namaz will be offered at 6:05am,” Sanjay Bhatia, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), was quoted as saying by the agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eid-mubarak-president-kovind-pm-modi-greet-people-on-eid-al-adha/story-FzZ13Yj7XRVT0L7hZULrPO.html
01-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Muslims offer prayers on Eid-ul-Adha amid Covid-19, Trump to ban TikTok in US and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Eid-ul-Adha amid Covid-19: India wakes up to glimpses of Muslims offering prayers on BakridWith lockdown restrictions eased in parts of the country, devotees were seen visiting mosques while maintaining social distancing and wearing masks as preventive measures to keep Covid-19 at bay. Read more here. Trump says he’ll act to ban TikTok in US as soon as Saturday“As far as TikTok is concerned, we’re banning them from the United States,” Trump said. Read more here. Sushant Singh Rajput’s favourite line was ‘goosebumps aa rahe hai’, would say it 5 times a day: Amit SadhRemembering his friend Sushant Singh Rajput, Amit Sadh says his favourite line was ‘goosebumps aa rahe hai’. “I think of him everytime I have goosebumps,” Amit says. Read more here. Karnataka woman pawns mangalsutra to buys TV for children’s on-air classesA woman in Gadag district of Karnataka mortgaged her mangalsutra to buy a television set for her children. Watch.Facebook rolls out Messenger Rooms shortcut on WhatsApp Web After beta testing on WhatsApp’s mobile app, Messenger Rooms shortcut is now available on WhatsApp Web. Find out more about Messenger Rooms here. Sea otters form a raft and float in water, video is amazingGlacier Bay National Park saw otters forming a raft and float in the water. Find out more here. MS Dhoni has lost a bit of fitness, is past his best: Former BCCI selectorFormer India all-rounder Roger Binny feels it is time for MS Dhoni to make way for the younger generation, believing the former India captain’s fitness is on the wane and that he no longer is the same impact player he once was. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-muslims-nationwide-offer-prayers-on-eid-ul-adha-amid-covid-19-and-all-the-latest-news/story-CEFeYIbVFwuKwUkh5wv0VN.html
01-08-2020||India||Eid-ul-Adha amid Covid-19: India wakes up to glimpses of Muslims offering prayers on Bakrid||Amid Covid-19 pandemic, India woke up on Saturday to glimpses of Muslim devotees arriving at mosques and offering prayers to mark the second most important Islamic festival - Eid-ul-Adha. With lockdown restrictions eased in parts of the country, devotees were seen visiting mosques while maintaining social distancing and wearing masks as preventive measures to keep Covid-19 at bay. The mosque authorities at various places ensured checking body temperature of the devotees and provided them with hand sanitiser. Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended his wishes on the occasion and hoped the “spirit of brotherhood and compassion be furthered”.“Eid Mubarak! Greetings on Eid al-Adha. May this day inspire us to create a just, harmonious and inclusive society. May the spirit of brotherhood and compassion be furthered,” the prime minister tweeted.  Eid Mubarak!Greetings on Eid al-Adha. May this day inspire us to create a just, harmonious and inclusive society. May the spirit of brotherhood and compassion be furthered.Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi was seen offering prayers at his residence on Saturday morning. The minister wished everyone on the occasion and said that the pandemic has not dampened the spirits of the devotees.“The world is facing the corona crisis but it has not dampened the spirits of people. People are praying today keeping their safety in mind. There is no lack of passion in offering prayers,” Naqvi said. Also read: Eid al-Adha - Not even a 100 animals sold at Manimajra goat market this year due to Covid-19  Punjab: Devotees in Amritsar offer prayers at Khairuddin Mosque amid light rainfall on the occasion of #EidAlAdha pic.twitter.com/S5e1OZMqsXWith lockdown restrictions considerably eased in the national capital, several mosques, including Jama Masjid and Fatehpuri Masjid in Delhi, held the prayers today on the auspicious occasion. Devotees on Saturday morning offered namaz at Delhi’s Jama Masjid on the occasion of Eid Al-Adha.  ईद-उल-अज़हा की सभी देशवासियों को बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं। जिस तरह का कोरोना संकट आज पूरी दुनिया के सामने है उसकी वजह से इबादत तो हो रही है लेकिन हिफाजत के साथ और इस इबादत में जुनून और जज़्बे में कमी नहीं है: केंद्रीय अल्पसंख्यक मामलों के मंत्री मुख्तार अब्बास नक़वी #EidAlAdha https://t.co/zrIjMFb3Oo pic.twitter.com/YTqPciPjRO“We have ensured strong arrangements here. In fact, we have ensured a safe environment in several big and small mosques on this occasion. namaz will be offered at 6:05 am,” said Sanjay Bhatia, Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) was quoted by news agency ANI. “I feel really good to be here on this occasion. Everyone followed lockdown norms and even Muslims had earlier offered namaz at their home, they followed all the rules and regulations. We are still adhering to the rules,” said a devotee. Delhi: People exchange greetings after offering prayers at Jama Masjid on #EidAlAdha, today. pic.twitter.com/gRxw98BgR6The Covid-19 lockdown had led to the closure of religious places, including mosques, due to which Muslim devotees were unable to pray in mosques on Eid-ul-Fitr in May. The Centre had allowed religious places to reopen from June 8 under Unlock 1. Under Unlock 3 guidelines, religious functions and other large congregations continue to be prohibited. #WATCH Delhi: Devotees offer namaz at Jama Masjid, on #EidAlAdha, today pic.twitter.com/8C2NfvLIJQEid-ul-Zuha, more commonly known as Bakr-Eid, is the festival of sacrifice observed on the tenth day of the Dhu al-Hijjah which is the twelfth month of the Islamic calendar. Also known as Bakrid, the sacrifice feast, the festival is marked by sacrificing an animal, usually a sheep or a goat to prove their devotion and love for Allah. Post the sacrifice, devotees distribute the offering to family, friends, neighbours and especially to the poor and the needy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eid-ul-adha-2020-amid-covid-19-india-wakes-up-to-glimpses-of-muslims-offering-prayers-on-bakrid/story-qSApOK6HIvPrPwGIMFnAvJ.html
01-08-2020||India||Manipur CM Biren Singh pays tribute to slain Assam Rifles personnel||Manipur chief minister Nongthombam Biren Singh on Friday paid his respect to the three soldiers of Assam Rifles who were killed in an ambush near Khongtal area in the state’s Chandel district on Wednesday.Chief Minister Biren Singh along with MLA L Sushindro (Khurai) led military officers in laying wreaths to the mortal remains of the soldiers of 4 Assam Rifles at the Bir Tikendrajit International Airport on Friday morning.Biren Singh said there is no place for violence in a democratic country like India. Stating that the government would not remain a silent spectator and the perpetrators would be definitely tracked down, he also appealed to the armed groups to shun violence and reach out for a political solution.He was speaking to reporters on the sideline of the ceremony.The chief minister said the government would try to provide suitable assistance to the families of the martyred central forces personnel belonging to Manipur and added that the matter would be put up in a cabinet meeting for discussion.He also met the family members of Ratan Salam, one of the three Assam Rifles soldiers who was killed on Thursday, after the ceremony and expressed his condolences.“The nation salutes their supreme sacrifice made in the highest traditions of the Force in service of the nation. In this hour of grief, the Assam Rifles stands firm in its solemn commitment to ensure the welfare of the families of the fallen soldiers,” Assam Rifles said in a press release on Friday.The three Assam Rifles personnel were killed while five others sustained an injury in an ambush near Khongtal area in Chandel district on Wednesday evening. Later, Manipur Naga People’s Front (MNPF), Revolutionary People’s Front (RPF) and United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent (ULFA-I) claimed responsibility for Wednesday’s ambush.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-cm-biren-singh-pays-tribute-to-slain-assam-rifles-personnel/story-MHKF0PVP3rHqXfgDjBJqvN.html
01-08-2020||India||Woman dies, 4 family members critical in Odisha fire incident||A 55-year-old woman was charred to death and her 12-day-old grandson, husband, son and daughter-in-law were struggling for their lives after their house was allegedly set on fire in Odisha’s coastal district of Kendrapara early on Friday.Police said Manas Barik, his wife Gitanjali, son Lipu, daughter-in-law Rinki and grandson were sleeping in their home in Giringa village of Dumuka gram panchayat under Marshaghai police station area when someone reportedly set the house on fire after bolting it from outside.Police and fire engine later reached the spot, broke open the door and rescued the family members before rushing them to hospital. Gitanjali died while being taken to SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack city. “The family was in deep sleep and did not realise for about half an hour till the noxious fumes from the fire filled the room. They tried to go out of the house but could not go out as the door was locked from outside. It seems to be a case of attempted murder,” Kalindi Behera, Marshaghai police station inspector, said.A case has been lodged connection with the local police station. The condition of the infant and three other family members is still critical.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-dies-4-family-members-critical-in-odisha-fire-incident/story-998dQCQ4JZDFDBubsdVyYN.html
01-08-2020||India||MP govt talks about ban on political programmes, Congress says it wants to target opposition||Congress leaders in Madhya Pradesh said on Friday the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led state government’s ban on political activities in the state till August 14 was to prevent them from campaigning for the by-polls to the 27 legislative assembly seats.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan directed, according to the state government’s official spokesperson, ministers not to undertake any public tour till August 14. He also asked them to hold meetings only through video conferencing and virtual rallies and at the same time they should not meet more than five people at a time at their homes too. “Saving people’s life is more important than the election. Hence, any public programme should not be organised by public representatives. In case of violation of the guidelines, action will be taken to impose fine and register cases against the violators,” Chouhan said during a review meeting on Thursday night over the coronavirus pandemic through a video conferencing from the hospital, where he is being treated.Narendra Saluja , Congress’ state unit president’s media coordinator, questioned the chief minister’s decision.“Why should the CM talk of a ban on political programmes and action in this regard when there is already a ban on social, religious and political gatherings in the state? Did the CM and other BJP leaders not violate it on many occasions during the Covid situation? Why is he serious about a ban on political functions only after he, three of his ministers and two top BJP leaders were affected by Covid?” Saluja asked.Saluja said the fact was that Chouhan knows that there are by-elections to the 27 assembly constituencies and being a Covid-19 patient he, his three ministerial colleagues and some other BJP leaders including the state BJP president VD Sharma can’t move around as they had been doing before.“Hence, his message to the authorities in the state is to target the Congress if it wants to organise any kind of programme while following all kinds of safety norms against Corona,” he said. Vivek Tankha, senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member, said the chief minister’s announcement “was funny”. “In fact, it’s the CM and other BJP leaders who made a mockery of safety norms in all these months. If the government really wants action on violations action must be taken against all those BJP leaders who violated norms in all these months,” Tankha said. “I have been saying from day one that there should be no gathering of any kind in the interest of people of the state. But there have been repeated violations of safety norms through political programmes by the BJP leaders. It not only invited problem for them but it is also responsible for the present alarming Covid situation in the state,” Tankha added. Dr Hitesh Bajpai, a BJP leader, said the Congress was “playing a petty politics over Covid situation”. “It shows their apathy that they see the government’s concern over the situation and its instructions as a means to target the Opposition. Those in the government and the organisation were affected because they have been in the forefront in fighting Covid and protecting people of the state unlike the state Congress president Kamal Nath who has been conspicuous by his absence in his party and in public both,” Bajpai said.The Election Commission is yet to announce the date for the by-polls in the state. Twenty-five of the 27 seats fell vacant following the resignation of Congress legislators, who later joined the BJP.By-polls for 24 assembly constituencies are to be held by September 22 as the law provides for filling the vacancies in the assembly within six months of the seats falling vacant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-govt-talks-about-ban-on-political-programmes-congress-says-it-wants-to-target-opposition/story-MXalC3tXkwNNd9VxgzEiqO.html
01-08-2020||India||Army won’t take eyes off Ladakh, preps to shop for Siachen-like gear for troops||With Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) dragging its feet on restoring the status quo ante along the 1,597km Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Ladakh sector, the Indian Army has started preparing for a long winter as it does not want a repeat of April 2020 next year.Top government officials confirmed that the Indian Army has asked its defence attaches posted in embassies in the US, Russia and Europe to identify warm clothes and snow tent manufacturers in case there is a need for emergency purchases.Also read: After Chinese apps and contractors, India puts restrictions on colour TV importsAfter Operation Meghdoot in Siachen in 1984, the Indian Army gets all its requirements fulfilled by local manufacturers with regard to igloos, semi-hemispherical domes, Down parkas, snow goggles, boots and gloves for troops guarding the heights in the western sector.While the Indian Army has matched the Chinese PLA in terms of troop strength and support elements in the Ladakh sector, its commanders totally dismiss reports of induction of over 35,000 troops recently. However, the military commanders are clear that they will have to man positions along the LAC in specific areas to prevent any PLA aggression next year. “After the PLA aggression, we don’t trust the Chinese and fear that they will come back again north of Pangong Tso as summer arrives in 2021,” said a military commander.Although the PLA has disengaged from patrolling points 14 (Galwan), 15-16 (Hot Springs), a smattering of adversary troops are still on forward location at patrolling point 17 A (Gogra) and withdrawal from all contested finger features is a distance away at the Pangong Tso.Also read: ‘Disengagement process along LAC not yet complete’: India rebuts ChinaWith the cold and arid claimate of Ladakh, not much snow is expected in the general area of patrolling points 15, 16 or 17, but the over 17,000 feet Chang La (pass) gets filled with snow and lies en route to defences at Pangong Tso. “In order to cater for winter clothing requirements, we have not only placed orders with domestic manufacturers but also asked troops other than those stationed on Saltoro ridge and Siachen glacier to give up extreme snow clothing. For instance, even troops at Partapur and Thoise are allowed Siachen clothing but the height of the two bases is same as Leh. So in the worst case scenario we will ask Partapur and Thoise troops to give up their down jackets, trousers, gloves, boots and goggles to their fellow jawans being posted up on the occupied Aksai Chin front,” said a second Army commander.The PLA aggression in the Ladakh sector has created so much of mistrust between the two armies that both will keep troops on select locations all along the 3488 km LAC. “The Chinese aggression came despite all talks of peace and tranquility. It is very important on part of both sides to settle the border issue soon as the number of friction points are increasing on the LAC and even a small spark can cause a flare-up, as unlike in the past, the Indian Army is regularly mounting patrols to earmark Indian territory and defend it to the last inch,” said a former Army chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-won-t-take-eyes-off-ladakh-preps-to-shop-for-siachen-like-gear-for-troops/story-Nzb7XPJWsJ2dRqax1A7CQN.html
01-08-2020||India||Will welcome back rebels if party brass forgives them, says Gehlot||Jaipur: Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said on Saturday that he would welcome back former deputy chief minister Sachin pilot and other dissident Congress legislators if the party’s high command forgave them. “If the high command forgives them (dissident MLAs), I will hug them. I have no prestige point,” Gehlot said while talking to media outside a Jaisalmer hotel, where the MLAs loyal to him were shifted ahead of the assembly session from August 14. The fissures in the state Congress leadership came to the fore when Pilot and 18 other MLAs rebelled against the Gehlot government in July. The chief minister has accused Pilot of trying to topple the government and alleged that he did nothing substantial as the Rajasthan Congress president in a seven-year tenure. Gehlot, however, has now said that he would do as the party’s brass decides. “The party has given me so much. I have been on many posts -- three times chief minister, state party chief… What all I am doing is to serve people. Whatever the high command decides, I have no objections to it,” the 69-year-old leader said. Stating that the democracy in the country was “under threat”, Gehlot said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was playing a “big game of horse trading”. He urged Prime Minister Nraendra Modi to stop all attempts to topple his elected government. “We have no quarrel with anyone. In a democracy, fights happen over ideology, policies and programmes and not for toppling a government. Modi should get stopped whatever is going on in Rajasthan,” he said. Gehlot said Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat should resign on moral grounds, stating that his involvement in a “conspiracy” to topple the Rajasthan government was now known. Shekhawat’s name was linked to the audio tapes, purportedly of conversations detailing the plot to topple the Gehlot government. The Union minister has denied it was his voice on the audio clips and said he was ready to face any investigation. State BJP chief Satish Poonia rejected Gehlot’s charges and asked him to focuss on his party instead of attacking the BJP. “If they had the numbers [number of MLAs needed to prove majority], this situation would not have arisen and the MLAs would not have been confined to a hotel. They have lost the mandate mentally,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-welcome-back-rebels-if-party-brass-forgives-them-says-gehlot/story-v4Zp1FRYIaz4OoH2IkQ7kN.html
01-08-2020||India||Mapping education inequalities||Earlier this week, the government released the New Education Policy after a gap of 34 years. Among other things the NEP seeks to encourage school education in mother tongue, do away with a Chinese wall between professional and non-professional education and promote an inter-disciplinary approach. An HT analysis of unit level data from a recently released National Statistical Office (NSO) survey on education, which was conducted in 2017-18 shows that these are exactly the fields where India’s education landscape has massive inequalities has been undergoing a lot of churning. This two-part data journalism series seeks to highlight some of these aspects. The first part will highlight that there is a deep aspiration for imparting English medium education to children, access to which continues to remain unequal. It will also highlight how socio-economic hierarchies determine access to professional education. The second part will discuss how share of students getting into professional courses, especially engineering, has fallen in this decade. This according to experts could be a result of their falling utility in the job market. Students from the richest 20% of the society are seventeen times more likely to be studying law than those from the poorest 20%. And a student who does not belong to an other backward class (OBC), scheduled class (SC) or scheduled tribe (ST) is six times more likely to be studying management than a Scheduled Tribe (ST) student in India. Girls are less likely to be getting English medium education than boys, and more women take up humanities than men in India. India’s education landscape is extremely unequal. These inequalities manifest themselves in the form of differences based on caste, class and, in some cases, gender. Those at the bottom of the socio-economic ladder are more likely to be studying humanities than a professional course. They are also much less likely to have access to English medium education. Differences in geographical location can increase or decrease these inequalities. Stereotyping, however, is of little help in understanding India’s education landscape. For example, the commonly held belief that most Muslims send their children to Madrasas (religious seminaries) and not proper schools is a myth which is not supported by data. These findings are based on an HT analysis of unit level data of a nationally representative survey conducted by the National Statistical Office (NSO) in 2017-18 and released in July. The data points cited above are in keeping with the larger trend of students from privileged sections of the society, who are more likely to be studying professional courses. !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();The socio-economic have-nots also have a much lower likelihood of receiving English medium education. A student who does not belong to an other backward class (OBC), scheduled class (SC) or scheduled tribe (ST) is almost three times more likely to getting English medium education than a Scheduled Caste (SC) student. A student from the top 20% of society is ten times more likely to be studying in an English medium school than someone who belongs to the bottom 20%.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();To be sure, both humanities and non-English medium education are the most common among Indian students. Interestingly, even India’s poorest and socially most deprived parents are doing all they can, including spending beyond their means, to send their children to English-medium schools. The inequality in English-medium education is the lowest at the pre-primary level. For example, the share of students who do not belong to an other backward class (OBC), scheduled class (SC) or scheduled tribe (ST) receiving English-medium education at the pre-primary level is 1.4 times more than the share of SC students. This gap increases to 2.7, 2.9, 2.8 and 2.4 at the primary, upper primary, secondary and higher secondary level. Similarly, a student from the top 20% of the society is 5.4 times more likely to study in an English-medium school than a student from the bottom 20% at the pre-primary level. At the primary and upper-primary levels, this number increases to 11.6; and to 12.1. At the secondary and higher-secondary levels this ratio is 6.1. Experts describe this as a precarious aspiration. There is a very high aspiration for English-medium education, even among the poorest. This often leads to parents sending their children to low-cost private schools which claim to impart English-medium education. While some government schools such as Kendriya Vidyalayas offer quality education at very low cost, they are difficult to get into. Local government schools are often understaffed and the teachers poorly paid, said Vidya Subramanian, assistant professor at the Centre for Education, Innovation and Research at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences. This aspiration is precarious because interruption of incomes often forces poor parents to withdraw their children and put them in government schools, Subramanian added. Overall access to English-medium varies drastically across states. Just 6% students were receiving English medium education in Bihar. This number is 63% in Telangana and 95% in Jammu and Kashmir. Because the survey was done in 2017-18, the report looks at the undivided state of Jammu and Kashmir, which also includes Ladakh. Hindi belt states fare badly on both overall share of English-medium education as well as inter-caste inequality.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*=’"+e+"’]");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();Dalit ideologue Chandrabhan Prasad blames the Congress’s politics of “plates over slates” and socialist baggage of anti-English politics for the poor state of English education among Dalits in Hindi belt states. Dalit children are attracted by mid-day meals to go to government schools and miss out on English-medium education, he said. North India’s Dalit and OBC (other backward class) politicians did not pursue right-based politics and only indulged in empty rhetoric off capturing state power. This has not helped the cause of education among Dalits, Prasad added. The NSO data also busts an entrenched stereotype. In 10 out of 20 large states, the number of Muslims attending English-medium schools, expressed as a proportion of all Muslims attending schools is higher than the corresponding proportion for Hindus.The erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, India’s only Muslim majority state, has the highest prevalence of English medium education in the country. This goes against the popular notion that Muslims primarily send their children to Madrasas rather than modern schools. If a Muslim child is shown as receiving English medium education, he cannot be going to a Madrasa, as they offer education in either Arabic or regional language, said Ather Farouqui, General Secretary of Anjuman Taraqqi Urdu. (This is the first of a two-part data journalism series on inequalities, aspirations and ongoing changes in India’s education landscape. The second part will look at fall in share of students getting into professional courses.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mapping-education-inequalities/story-xhTIlYty7kF7MNqxnOyGtO.html
01-08-2020||India||Spurious liquor kills 41 in Punjab||At least 41 people have died in three districts in Punjab after reportedly drinking spurious liquor over two days, prompting chief minister Amarinder Singh to order a magisterial probe, officials said on Friday.The deaths took place in Punjab’s Amritsar, Batala and Tarn Taran districts since Wednesday night, according to a statement by the government. The youngest of the victims was believed to be in his early twenties and the oldest 80 years old. Among the dead was the husband of a woman who has been arrested for selling the suspect liquor.Punjab director general of police Dinkar Gupta said the first five fatalities were reported from Mucchal and Tangra villages in Amritsar’s Tarsikka on July 29 night.On Thursday evening, two more people died under suspicious circumstances at Amritsar’s Muchhal village. One person died at Sri Guru Ram Das Hospital in Amritsar after being shifted from Tangra. Later, two more deaths were reported from Mucchal village while another two people died in Batala, also due to the consumption of spurious liquor.On Friday, five people died in Batala, taking the death toll in the city to seven, the DGP said, adding that four fatalities were reported from Tarn Taran.Chief minister Amarinder Singh ordered a magisterial inquiry by the divisional commissioner, Jalandhar, into the deaths.Police have arrested Balwinder Kaur, a resident of Muchhal village, under Section 304 of the IPC (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and under provisions of the Excise Act, the DGP said.The CM has promised strict action against anyone found complicit in the case and directed police to launch a search operation to crack down on any spurious liquor manufacturing unit operating in the state.Gurpreet Singh, 25, of Sach Khand road area in Tarn Taran said, “My father Pyara Singh had gone to drink liquor on Thursday night, but he didn’t return. On Friday morning, we found him lying dead in the ground situated at the Sarhali road. He had drunk illicit liquor due to which he died.”Talking to HT, Rahul, a resident of Kazimori locality said that on Thursday night around 9pm, his uncle Buta Ram came to the house under the influence of liquor. “When we questioned him, my uncle told us that he had taken liquor from a woman and after drinking that liquor his condition is unstable. Within half an hour, my uncle started vomiting and faded. We rushed him to civil hospital, where he died late night,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/spurious-liquor-kills-41-in-punjab/story-DyHEddwTsKI6hEsPTgbAJO.html
01-08-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The numbers are coming in and they are not looking pretty – not that anyone expected them to.The US economy shrank 9.5% in the three months ended June, from the previous three months. On a year-on-year basis, the fall was even sharper – 33%.Germany, the most important country in Europe, saw its economy shrink 10.1% sequentially and 35% year-on-year. For France, the numbers were 13.8% and 19%; and for Spain 18.5% and 22.1%. Italy, which was ravaged by the coronavirus disease (the cause of the fall in all these economies – in case that wasn’t clear), saw its GDP fall by 12.4% in the quarter on a sequential basis, and 17.3% on a year-on-year basis. Overall, the eurozone economy contracted 12.1% sequentially and 15% year-on-year.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe fall has been brutal for some countries – Spain, for instance, finds its economy exactly where it was (in terms of size) in 2002.The US numbers, which show the sharpest fall in 70 years, are the most worrying. They have come against the backdrop of hundreds of billions of dollars of direct fiscal stimulus in the form of payments to individuals and businesses. Without those, the fall would have been sharper. The US is the world’s largest economy and the ripple effect of its poor performance will be felt everywhere. It is unlikely the US economy will recover in the third quarter (the April-June period was the second quarter for the country, as it was for many others that follow the calendar year), given the spike in Covid-19 cases in the country where things seemed to be getting better in May, even June. Since then, though, there has been a spike, with cases rising in states that weren’t badly affected in March and April, and also in those which were among the first to open up after lockdowns. Germany is better off, simply because it seems to have managed the pandemic better (it, too, announced generous fiscal support) and analysts expect the country to stage a so-called V-shaped recovery.All of this was expected – the economic numbers may have not met estimations (which themselves have become very difficult at this time) – and that the coronavirus disease, and the disruption it has wrought on life and work (and not only from lockdowns), would take a toll on the economy was a given. The question is, how soon can an economy get back to its pre-pandemic levels? And the question is, how can a country protect itself from further coronavirus disruptions, which are inevitable?The second is easier to answer: by aggressive testing, tracing, and isolation; by ensuring that everyone wears a mask and practises social distancing; and by prohibiting large gatherings.With adequate fiscal and regulatory support, a country that does this can hope to grow its economy back to pre-pandemic levels soon.Quoting analysts at JP Morgan, The Wall Street Journal reported that Germany’s economy will get there (its pre-pandemic size) by the end of 2021. The US economy, the report added, would still be “around 2.5% smaller at the end of 2021”.India’s GDP numbers for the April-June quarter, its first (the country follows the April-March financial year), are expected at the end of August (although there’s no certainty that the numbers will be released). For two of these months, India was in a hard lockdown, albeit with some exemptions which came progressively through this period. According to the Nomura India Business Resumption Index (100 signifies pre-lockdown level business activity), India ended June with business activity around 30 percentage points below the March-level. And for April and much of May, this gap was actually at least 50 percentage points. That doesn’t bode well for the first quarter GDP.The consensus of economists is that the Indian economy could shrink by at least 5% this year. At constant prices, that will take the economy to pre-2018-19 levels – and the country can ill afford to lose two years (assuming that the economy rebounds sharply in 2021-22, which will be a challenge). The government has announced a plan; it now needs to follow up with direct fiscal support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-qz8qF2n2PDlTvGhg22mE5O.html
01-08-2020||India||SC freezes registration on BS-IV vehicles after noting abnormally high sales during lockdown||The Supreme Court on Friday ordered a freeze on registration of all BS-IV vehicles sold before March 31, after it saw abnormally high sale of vehicles in the days leading up to March 31 when business across the country came to a standstill on account of a nationwide lockdown announced in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Federation of Automobile Dealers (FADA) informed the Court that the bulk of purchases were through online sale. Suspecting manipulation of figures, the bench of Justices Arun Mishra, BR Gavai, and Krishna Murari said, “Sales during lockdown is abnormally high. It appears under the guise of our March 27 order (permitting sale of BS-IV vehicles beyond March 31 to compensate for the lockdown) some fraudulent action has been adopted.” The bench ordered FADA to supply full details of vehicles sold online as well as through showrooms. The matter will now be taken up on August 13. An affidavit filed by the Ministry of Road, Transport and Highways (MoRTH) added to the Court’s suspicion. The Court had asked the Centre to verify on its E-Vaahan portal, the number of BS-IV vehicles that were sold and registered in the period from March 12-31, 2020. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Aishwarya Bhati informed the Court that as per the figures provided by FADA, a total of 2,25,257 vehicles were sold. On verification it was found 1,45,152 were granted permanent registration while 29,834 vehicles are still awaiting registration. Following the Court’s order, vehicles falling in this category will have to await registration till the next date of Court hearing. Interestingly, data concerning 50,261 vehicles could not be located on the e-Vaahan portal. The Centre contacted the states which are yet to connect on e-Vaahan. These states/UTs include Andhra Pradesh, and few regional transport offices (RTO) in Madhya Pradesh, Telangana, Andaman Nicobar Islands, and Lakshadweep. Out of the missing data of 50,261, the Centre located the data of 10,324 vehicles in these states/UTs, but there is still no clue about 39,937 vehicles which have been shown as sold by FADA. FADA counsel senior advocate KV Vishwanathan said, “We have received the government affidavit late on Thursday evening. We are still in the process of reconciling figures for which we need time. The members and non-members of FADA had complained that they were unable to log in the data on e-Vaahan on the relevant dates.” The Court was surprised to find a huge volume of BS-IV vehicles sale and registration as recorded in the Centre’s affidavit. According to the MoRTH, between March 12 and March 31, the Vaahan portal recorded sale of 9,56,015 vehicles which included two-wheelers, three-wheelers, commercial and passenger vehicles. The maximum sale occurred on March 29 (78,525), March 30 (94,054) and March 31 (55,334). The bench observed, “We are worried how sales could be so high during lockdown. How could this be….It appears they have manipulated the data. How could showrooms be open during lockdown?” FADA will have to answer these queries posed by the Court before August 13. Already, the apex court has recalled that part of its March 27 order which allowed sale of BS-IV vehicles beyond March 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-freezes-registration-on-bs-iv-vehicles-after-noting-abnormally-high-sales-during-lockdown/story-IwLImWLx5keRbJlWQcDobK.html
01-08-2020||India||At 650k, India closes in on 1 million daily tests target||There were close to 650,000 tests for Covid-19 across India on Thursday and the average number of daily tests in the last week of July is more than twice of what it was in beginning of the month, according to government data and an analysis by HT, suggesting the country was on track to reach the million-tests-a-day threshold. As on Friday, India has had 1.69 million cases of the coronavirus disease that has led to 36,549 deaths, making it the third hardest-hit nation after the United States and Brazil, where 155,000 and 91,000 fatalities have respectively taken place. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIndia has till now carried out close to 19 million tests but will need to ramp up this process further in order to better detect and head off new outbreaks. India’s per million tests as on July 30 comes to about 14,129, a number that has improved from 6,794 on July 1 but is still among the lowest in the world since it has the world’s second-largest population. The roughly 19 million tests is equivalent to 1.5% of the population. Ramping up testing was among the issues discussed by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday during the meeting of the Group of Ministers (GoM) on Covid-19. “The measures to be taken include revamping the strategy for effective management of containment zones through stricter perimeter control; widespread rapid antigen tests; intensive and rapid door-to-door search…,” said the health minister. Also read: Four Israeli technologies to detect Covid-19 in 30 seconds to be tested in DelhiThe antigen tests the minister referred to has emerged as key to India’s disease surveillance efforts – the test takes at most 30 minutes and costs nearly a fifth of the lab tests, which can take at least a day for results to show but is largely seen to be more reliable. The strategy will be crucial to detect new hot spots that are now believed to be emerging in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh – away from the previous infection hotbeds of Maharashtra, Delhi and Tamil Nadu. Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, Sikkim, Telangana, Gujarat, UP and Kerala are among states that have recorded the biggest improvement in weekly testing numbers. Arunachal’s numbers were up 622% while UP’s rose by 257%. On the other hand, Bihar, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka recorded some of the slowest growth in daily testing. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) data suggests the increase has largely been due to antigen tests, which were rolled out on June 14 and now account for 10% of all tests conducted. In the past one month, antigen tests have increased to account for about 25% of the tests performed per day across India.These tests are the only other option besides the real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (rRT-PCR) test, which is considered the gold standard to diagnose Covid-19.An antigen is a protein (in this case present on the virus) that induces an immune response in the body in the form of production of antibodies against a disease, and detecting its presence through an antigen-based test determines a present infection.This sort of test has been seen as key to the turnaround in Delhi, where the positivity rate of tests -- the proportion of people who are found positive for the disease from among those tested – dropped from 37% a month ago to about 6%. Changes in positivity rate can indicate whether a city or a state is able to identify all of its cases. But in case of antigen tests, ICMR guidelines say, all symptomatic negative cases have to be confirmed through an rRT-PCR test to rule out a false negative. Virologists and microbiologists say mass testing is the key to identify and isolate those infected so that the disease doesn’t spread. “The way ahead is to test as many people as possible, to be able to track and isolate those people who are infected so that the disease spread is contained. If you isolate them in time, the spread in the community will be curtailed,” said Jacob John, former head, virology department, Christian Medical College, Vellore.Dr Amita Jain, head, microbiology department, King George’s Medical University, Lucknow, said: “Since positive results are confirmed positives, it will work in picking up cases, even if it is not able to pick up all cases. In areas where the viral load is very high it should work well, and that’s what we want -- that cases are tracked early. RT-PCR is a better test but can’t be deployed on mass scale as it’s not only cumbersome and expensive but also takes much longer. It’s ok to conduct confirmatory negative tests through RT-PCR.”Delhi was the first state to start antigen based Covid-19 testing last month, and other states that have deployed antigen testing in a significant way include Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and some north-eastern states. Antigen testing, however, has not picked up in the private sector. Officials in several hospitals said they do not use it as a first choice because of the need for an rRT-PCR to confirm a negative result.“Might as well do an rRT-PCR test to diagnose a case rather than do a rapid antigen test and confirm it with using an rRT-PCR. It will also mean double the cost for a patient when we can know their Covid status with a single test,” said an administrative official in a prominent private hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-650k-india-closes-in-on-1mn-daily-tests-target/story-ca3yiDCb8Vlept1ffzUNSK.html
01-08-2020||India||Rhea Chakraborty booked by ED as politics heats up in Sushant Singh Rajput death case||Politicians across party lines, the police and governments of two states, and a former girlfriend -- all waded into the mystery and controversy surrounding the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput on June 14 which has moved on from theories and investigations into how nepotism in Bollywood may have claimed the life of the talented actor to allegations of a criminal conspiracy involving his girlfriend at the time of his death. The Enforcement Directorate (ED), which investigates money laundering and foreign exchange violations, on Friday registered a case against Rhea Chakraborty and some members of her family in connection with the death of Rajput, 34, people familiar with the development said.  The ED case, registered under the prevention of money laundering act (PMLA), is based on a Bihar police FIR filed Tuesday on the basis of a complaint by Rajput’s father KK Rajput. The officials said that Chakraborty, Rajput’s girlfriend and an actress herself, is likely to be summoned for questioning next week by the ED. Reacting to allegations against her, Chakraborty, 28, issued a video statement on Friday saying: “I have immense faith in God and the judiciary. I believe that I will get justice. Even though a lot of horrible things are being said about me…I refrain from commenting on the advice of my lawyers as the matter is sub-judice. Satyamev Jayate. The truth shall prevail.” The involvement of the ED brings a federal agency into an investigation where the Mumbai and Bihar police are involved. On July 16, Chakraborty demanded that the Central Bureau of Investiation look into the matter, but the Maharashtra government has said there is no need for a CBI probe. In his complaint on Tuesday, Rajput’s father alleged that Chakraborty and her family developed an acquaintance with his son as part of a deliberate conspiracy so that Rhea could establish herself in the film industry, and with an eye on his son’s money. He claimed there were unexplained transfers from his son’s account including a Rs 15 crore transaction. He also alleged that on June 6, less than a week before Rajput was found dead in his house, Chakraborty left with many of his belongings, including his laptop, ATM card and some documents. In his complaint, Rajput’s father also sought to invoke the provisions of the Mental Health Care Act, alleging that the machinations of Chakraborty and her family members caused his son to break down, despite a successful career in films, and ultimately drove him to suicide. Legal experts said that the ED probe is different from that of the police because under PMLA, a person is presumed guilty until he proves his innocence. Dr Sujay Kantawala, senior lawyer who specialises in PMLA cases, said: “When the Bihar police lodged the FIR, the provisions were of Indian Penal Code. Here you are presumed innocent and burden of proof is on prosecution to prove the charge. However, when ED comes in the picture, there is reverse burden of proof.” Kantawala further explained that the accused person is entitled to get a copy of FIR registered by police or CBI, but ED’s ECIR (equivalent to FIR) is not given to the accused. The Mumbai Police is already investigating Rajput’s death. After the Patna police filed its FIR, Chakraborty’s legal team said it would challenge their jurisdiction and filed a plea in the Supreme Court on Wednesday to the effect. The Bihar government said on Friday that it will oppose the petition filed by Chakraborty. Advocate General Lalit Kishore said the state would be represented before the apex court by former Attorney General of India Mukul Rohatgi.He asserted that the matter fell very much within the jurisdiction of the state as the FIR was lodged on the basis of a complaint filed by Rajput’s father who resides in Patna.Kishore also dismissed Chakraborty’s contention that all cases in the matter be shifted to Mumbai and pointed out that the police in the western metropolis has not even lodged an FIR. .“It is the Patna Police which lodged the first FIR in the matter. I wonder how the Mumbai Police intends to investigate a matter without registering a proper case,” he said.On reports of non-cooperation from the Mumbai police with a four-member police team from Patna which is in the metropolis to probe the matter, the advocate general said, “If it is so, it is very unfortunate. It is normal practice for law enforcers to cooperate with visiting police teams from other states.” Among other politicians who jumped into the issue were Union minister and Lok Janshakti Party founder Ram Vilas Paswan and former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. The Lok Janshakti Party founder told PTI that Rajput’s alleged suicide is shrouded in mystery and expressed his anguish at the “lack of progress” in the case and sought a CBI probe. Fadnavis sought an ED probe before the agency said it would investigate the matter. “There is a huge sentiment among the people in the Sushant Singh Rajput case. They feel something is being hidden, new revelations are being made. Hence, people are demanding a CBI probe into it,” he said.The Mumbai police are investigating the Sushant Singh Rajput suicide case and it is expected they will arrive at a conclusion soon, Maharashtra minister Jayant Patil said . The Water Resources Minister also advised everyone against speaking about the private life of the actor. He specifically asked political “leaders from Maharashtra” to stop “tweeting and expressing their opinions about it”.“The (Mumbai) police will investigate the matter on the basis of evidence. We are expecting they will complete the investigation and arrive at a conclusion soon,” Patil said.Asked about the Bihar police conducting a probe in Mumbai in connection with a separate FIR registered in Patna, Patil, a former Maharashtra home minister, said: “The thing is since an FIR was registered there, it will be probed. The Mumbai police will give the information Bihar police want. They (Bihar police) will proceed further if they get any evidence.”Mumbai police have recorded statements of Bollywood personalities including Sanjay Leela Bhansali, film critic Rajeev Masand, actress Sanjana Sanghi, Rhea Chakraborty, casting director Shanoo Sharma, filmmaker Mukesh Chhabra, and Aditya Chopra of Yash Raj Films.The police have so far recorded statements of around 40 people, including those of Rajput’s family and his cook.Rajput’s former girlfriend, TV actor Ankita Lokhande, said the actor had an admirable zest for life and that she cannot believe that he died by suicide.“I can’t comment on Sushant and Rhea’s relationship. I was not there. As for Sushant’s family, I want to take a stand for them. They must have something to prove and show people,” she said in an interview with India Today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rhea-booked-by-ed-as-politics-heats-up-in-sushant-death-case/story-mk6zfMFSZJuxlh4HOjPdhI.html
01-08-2020||India||Odisha hikes fines for violation of Covid-19 guidelines as tally crosses 31,000-mark||With the Covid-19 cases in the state rising rapidly, the Odisha government on Friday doubled the penalty to Rs 1,000 for not wearing masks in public places as the state’s tally crossed the 31,000-mark.Chief secretary Asit Tripathy said those found not wearing face masks or spitting in public places will be fined Rs 1,000 for the first violation while for the second and further violations, the penalty will be Rs 5,000. The penalty amount was Rs 500 for the first-time offence and Rs 1,000 for the subsequent ones.Tripathy, however, did not clarify how the government would keep track of the second and subsequent violations.The government also announced lifting of lockdown in four Covid hotspot districts of Ganjam, Khurda, Cuttack, Japur and Rourkela Municipal Corporation. However, the chief secretary said that congregation at public places will be strictly prohibited. In case of closed spaces, if offices, establishments, market complexes and shops are found violating physical distancing norms, a fine of Rs 10,000 will be imposed and the establishment will be sealed for a week. For further offences, a fine of Rs 10,000 and sealing for one month will be imposed, he said.In marriage functions where social distancing is violated and more than 50 persons are found attending the function, a fine of Rs 10,000 will be imposed.The state’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 31,000-mark on Friday with 1,499 new cases reported in 24 hours. Eight more deaths from the disease took the toll to 177, news agency PTI reported quoting a health department official.The total number of novel coronavirus patients in the state now stands at 31,877.The government said sample collection, isolation and testing would be the norm as the cases continued to increase. The state would add 6 more testing labs at Angul, Puri, Kalahandi, Jharsuguda, Keonjhar and Sundergarh districts from August 1 and at least 20,000 Covid tests will be conducted everyday, Institute of Life Sciences director Ajay Parida said.Of the 20,000 tests, 8,000 will be RT-PCR tests and the remaining 12,000 will be antigen tests, he added. Currently, all the districts have more than 3,000 antigen kits each.However, Odisha Congress chief Niranjan Patnaik on Friday demanded that the state should test at least 25, 000 samples every day to bring the situation under control. “If the government fails to take quick steps to tackle the situation, there is a likelihood of the state witnessing community transmission of novel coronavirus. The Covid-19 situation is really grim in the state,” the PCC chief said. “Discussions should be held with political parties, social organisations and experts to strengthen the battle against the pandemic,” he said.Meanwhile, chief minister Naveen Patnaik inaugurated the third plasma bank at Rourkela on Friday and said the state has collected 70 units of plasma in a fortnight for the treatment of critically ill Covid-19 patients.Patnaik, who inaugurated the plasma bank at Ispat General Hospital in Rourkela through video conferencing, said eight patients have so far been discharged from hospitals in the state after being cured of coronavirus through plasma therapy, PTI reported.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-hikes-fines-for-violation-of-covid-19-guidelines-as-tally-crosses-31-000-mark/story-KfigU5tEjqKHUoxU7Ir3ZL.html
01-08-2020||India||Ensure dues of health staff cleared within a week: SC to govt||The Supreme Court on Friday directed the Centre to take steps to ensure that pending salaries of doctors and healthcare workers engaged in Covid-19 duties are cleared within a week. The court’s direction came while hearing an application filed by the United Residents and Doctors Association (URDA) that pointed out instances of healthcare staff being denied wages for coronavirus disease-related relief work in Maharashtra, Punjab, Tripura, Karnataka and Delhi. The bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and MR Shah said, “Appropriate steps in this regard shall be taken by the Central Government to ensure that salaries of doctors and health workers are released.” The court gave Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who was appearing for the Centre, a week’s time to make sure the necessary steps were taken. On June 17, the top court had directed the Centre to issue orders to all states and Union Territories for payment of salaries to doctors and healthcare workers as also for providing suitable quarantine facilities for those who are directly engaged in treatment of Covid-19 patients. Advocate Mithu Jain who filed the application on behalf of the URDA also pointed out that several hospitals were forcing doctors to apply for casual leave against the days they were in mandatory quarantine.“How can that be done. It is compulsory quarantine. It should not be considered as leave,” the apex court bench said. Solicitor General Mehta assured that necessary instruction would be conveyed in this regard and they would be reported to the court by August 10, the next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-dues-of-health-staff-cleared-within-a-week-sc-to-govt/story-EIseYKm8a3Rxqm8bL05X2L.html
01-08-2020||India||Differences between Congress young guns, UPA-era ministers widen||The rift between young Congress leaders and UPA-era ministers intensified a day after the former urged the latter to introspect and claimed at a virtual meeting that the UPA government ruined the grand old party’s fortunes, with former minister Manish Tewari alleging sabotage from within and demanding an analysis of the 2019 election, by which time the party had been out of power for five years, but did as badly as it had done in 2014. Tewari, Union information and broadcasting minister in the last two years of the UPA government, said on Twitter: “Was UPA responsible for decline in Fortunes of the Congress in 2014” is a valid question and must be gone into.” Also read: Rajasthan HC sends notices to Speaker, 6 BSP MLAs who joined Congress“Equally valid is was UPA sabotaged from within?” he asked and demanded that “2019 defeat must also be analysed”. The former minister pointed out, that “no charge against the UPA has stood the test of law—6 years on,” referring to the closure and acquittal of all accused in the 2G spectrum allocation case. In another tweet, he emphasised that sabotage started with the CAG’s “fraudulent” report on the so-called 2G scam which pegged a notional loss of Rs 1.76 lakh crore and said, “What would be interesting to find out someday is not that the report was fake but who set him (then CAG Vinod Rai) to it?” When contacted, Tewari told HT, “There should be a frank assessment of the UPA years but was finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman lying when she said during her last budget speech that 271 million people had been lifted out of poverty between 2006 and 2016 – eight of which were UPA years?.” Underlining UPA-era schemes such as the RTI, MGNREGA , Right To Education, the Food Security Act and other social security programmes, Tewari said the schemes are used in the present day and are providing food support to 800 million people. “If the young MP doesn’t know all this, then he needs a primer. There is now empirical if not unimpeachable evidence that the UPA was sabotaged from within -- the Vinod Rai 2G report being a classical example,” Tewari added. The “young versus old” debate that has blighted the Congress for long has now acquired larger proportions. A year after the Congress’s second Lok Sabha defeat in a row and marginalisation of two prominent young leaders — Jyotiraditya Scindia and Sachin Pilot — the issue erupted at Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s marathon virtual meeting with the party’s Rajya Sabha MPs on Thursday. Rajiv Satav, a former youth Congress chief, led the charge against the senior leaders such as Kapil Sibal and P Chidambaram after they spoke about the need for introspection. According to two leaders present in the meeting, Sibal called for introspection on “why we are not succeeding to send our message” across to the people. Sibal also counted the reasons: inadequate articulation, everybody is on their own, lack of team work, no concentration on particular issues, no ideological depth,and organizational mismatch. He concluded saying, “We are not doing right things.” Satav, next to speak, lashed out at Sibal. “People who are asking for introspect should have introspected much earlier. UPA 2 brought Congress down to 44 MPs,” he said, referring to the party’s tally in the 2014 election. The next attack was launched by the party’s general secretary KC Venugopal, who took on both Sibal and Chidambaram. According to leaders present in the meeting, Venugopal said when Rahul Gandhi says something, some senior leaders dilute it. “If Rahul Gandhi is not the leader, who else is the leader?” he asked, arguing that Rahul always stood up against Narendra Modi on all issues. “But when Rahul Gandhi faces attack, no one backs him.” Chidambaram was the fourth speaker after Sonia Gandhi, former PM Manmohan Singh and AK Antony. While he criticised the government on all three key issues — Covid management, economic distress and the India-China border standoff — he added that despite the Modi government’s failures, public mood was not turning against it Chidambaram also drew a north versus south India divide and said in southern states such as Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, people understood and opposed Modi but “our political messaging is not right in the north”. A senior leader claimed that both Sibal and Chidambaram’s intent was not to attack the young leaders but demand more space in the party’s decision-making process. This was reflected in Ahmed Patel’s remarks, when he spoke about giving more chances to leaders who are not members of the Congress Working Committee, to speak on party affairs and national issues. Neither leader is a member of CWC although Chidambaram is a permanent invitee. Sonia started the meeting with a brief reference to Covid, India-China clashes and the economic situation. Manmohan and Antony, too, spoke briefly on general issues before other MPs were asked to speak. Shaktisinh Gohil started the clamour to bring back Rahul Gandhi as the party chief, a sentiment echoed by others. Digvijaya Singh said, “The entire country wants Rahul Gandhi as Congress president.” Abhishek Manu Singhvi endorsed Gohil’s demand and spoke about how the BJP murdered democratic institutions and suggested that pro-Modi media be “named and shamed”. While Sibal, Chidambaram and Satav refused to comment, a senior party leader who heard them at the meeting said the resentment was a reflection of UPA-era ministers feeling left out of decision-making. “They want to be involved and Mrs Gandhi acknowledged that.” However, another MP felt that the rift between the two factions was now too wide to bridge. Chidambaram insisted that due to weaknesses in the organisational structure, the party was unable to highlight the failures of the Modi government in handling the pandemic, economy and China. On the record, the Congress accused the BJP of “unleashing propaganda” to divert attention from its alleged failures in tackling Covid-19 and China. “We only reply to facts and not fiction. The stories about internal rumblings in the Congress and of a fight between old and new guard are a figment of imagination, fiction and a product of BJP’s propaganda factory, merely unleashed in the market to cover their failures in health infrastructure and national security,” party spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill told a virtual news conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/differences-between-cong-young-guns-upa-era-ministers-widen/story-csMCz1SvdAdYHLf9Y7PXGP.html
01-08-2020||India||Mehbooba Mufti to stay in detention for 3 months; Lone freed||The Jammu and Kashmir administration extended the detention of former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti by three months even as it released People’s Conference chief Sajjad Gani Lone in Srinagar on Friday, a week ahead of the one-year anniversary of the revocation of the troubled region’s special status and its bifurcation.Mufti, who has been held under the stringent Public Safety Act (PSA) since the early hours of August 5, 2019, is among 20-odd political leaders in the Valley who continue to remain under detention. Two other former chief ministers – Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar – were released on March 13 and March 24.Mufti’s party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), ran a coalition government in the undivided state with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) until the alliance collapsed in June 2018 that prompted the imposition of Governor’s Rule.Principal secretary to J&K home department, Shaleen Kabra, issued an order announcing the extension of Mufti’s detention.‘’In exercise of powers conferred by section 8 (1) a read with clause a of sub section (1) of section 18 of JKPSA 1978, the government hereby directs that the period of detention of Mehbooba Mufti, D/O Mufti Mohammad Sayeed R/O Bijbhera A/P Nowgam Srinagar be extended for further period of three months and she may be lodged in subsidiary jail Fairview Gupkar Road Srinagar,’’ read the order issued on Friday. This is the second time that PSA has been extended in Mufti’s case.Under the PSA, a person can be kept under detention for up to two years.The former CM was arrested on August 5 from her official residence and lodged at Chesmashahi huts. She was moved to a government building close to the MLA hostel, where other detainees were held, in November. In April this year, Mufti was shifted to her official residence at Fairview on Gupkar Road.The PDP condemned the extension of Mufti’s detention. ‘It’s high time the BJP realizes that we as Kashmiris refuse to be trivialized,” the party said.Lone, who was a minister in the PDP-BJP government, was also arrested hours before the Centre stripped J&K of its special status on August 5, 2019 and held at the government house in Church Lane, Sonwar. ‘’Finally 5 days short of a year I have been officially informed that I am a free man. So much has changed. So have I,” Lone tweeted shortly after his release. “Jail was not a new experience. Earlier ones were harsh with usual doses of physical torture. But this was psychologically draining. Much to share hopefully soon,’’ he added.The developments came a week after Apni Party chief Altaf Bukhari said he was told by lieutenant governor GC Murmu that the political detainees would be released soon.Nearly all of Kashmir’s mainstream political leaders were detained hours before the central government nullified Article 370 of the Constitution, which accorded special status to the region, and bifurcated the state into two union territories – Jammu and Kashmir with a legislature and Ladakh without one.Lone was initially kept at a makeshift jail at Centaur hotel on the banks of the Dal Lake along with several other mainstream leaders before they all were moved to MLA hostel in Srinagar. In February, Lone and PDP leader Waheed Parra were moved to their residences and put under house arrest.Omar Abdullah welcomed Lone’s release. ‘’Good to hear that Sajjad Lone has been released from illegal house arrest. I hope others under similar illegal detention will also be released without any delay,’’ Omar Abdullah tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mufti-to-stay-in-detention-for-3-months-lone-freed/story-BLOHykYZoqGrOcVPvFGjcN.html
01-08-2020||India||Punjab spurious liquor death toll rises to 38, eight bootleggers arrested||The death toll in Punjab’s suspected hooch tragedy has risen to 38 by late Friday evening and the Punjab Police has arrested seven more bootleggers from Amritsar Rural, Batala and Tarn Taran districts in over 40 raids conducted by five teams led by senior officers on Friday.With these arrests, the total number of persons apprehended so far in the spurious liquor deaths case has gone up to eight, including Balwinder Kaur, who was arrested last night from Muchhal village.DGP Dinkar Gupta said a huge quantity of spurious liquor, drums, storage cans etc have been recovered from the accused and the same have been sent for chemical analysis to check for constituents of spurious liquor. More arrests are likely, he said, adding that raids were continuing and the police teams would continue to crack down on all those involved in the case to unravel the extend of the spurious liquor mafia operating in the region.While Balwinder Kaur and Mithu were arrested from Amritsar Rural district, two persons identified as Darshan Rani and Rajan were nabbed from Batala district. Four others, namely Kashmir Singh, Angrez Singh, Amarjit and Baljit, have been arrested from Tarn Taran.Also Read: Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh orders probe into 21 suspected spurious liquor deathsAn FIR has been registered under sections 304/307/120 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Police Station Sadar Tarn Taran against the four accused arrested from the district, said the DGP, adding that the bootleggers had admitted to supplying spurious liquor in village Norangabad. Mithu, who was arrested from village Jasso Nangal today, has also admitted to his role in the supply of spurious liquor, said the DGP.As of Friday evening, 10 persons had died of spurious liquor consumption in Amritsar Rural, nine in Batala and 19 in Tarn Taran. The death toll could rise further as the spurious liquor network was evidently spread across many areas, said the DGP, adding that questioning of the arrested accused was expected to lead to further arrests in the case.Also Read: RMOs on covid duty, pharmacy officers’ strike hit healthcare services in rural PunjabPunjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has already ordered a magisterial inquiry by divisional commissioner Jalandhar into the hooch tragedy. The inquiry will look into the facts and circumstances leading to incidents, as well as into any other issues connected or relevant to the incidents.The chief minister has given commissioner Jalandhar division the liberty to co-opt any civil/police officer or any expert to facilitate the expeditious conduct of the enquiry. He has promised strict action against anyone found complicit in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-spurious-liquor-death-toll-rises-to-38-eight-bootleggers-arrested/story-N9G2tCgSdfdbOb2qULb0IK.html
01-08-2020||India||India showed will, capability to stand up to China: US official||India showed “will and capability to stand up to China” in the recent border conflict, Lisa Curtis, senior director for South and Central Asia, US National Security Council, has said. The rest of the Indo-Pacific countries are “watching this carefully” and have been “encouraged by India’s resolve”. Curtis said this during a Brookings Institution webinar on Wednesday assessing China’s growing regional influence. India, she noted, “played the economic card” by banning Chinese apps and putting a hold on Chinese investments.“Thankfully,” she said, we are “beginning to see disengagement of forces. But the “pressure that China put on India on the Line of Actual Control” will have a long-term impact on how India views China and will “change the dynamics between the two.” An experienced South Asia hand who has served the US government in both India and Pakistan, Curtis said, “Few countries are more familiar with China’s malign influence than India.”China’s “recent aggressive stance [in Ladakh] fits with the larger pattern of Chinese aggressiveness in other parts of the world”, she said. Twenty-five years ago China did not take India seriously, she said. India was seen as “inward-looking and lagging in its economic indicators.” Fifteen years ago, as India’s growth and military capabilities began taking off, there was a line of thinking that India and China would work together and “usher in a new Asian century.” From about 2010 or so, differences over the long standing border dispute re-emerged and each side became “uncomfortable” with the rise of the other. China’s influence in India’s neighbourhood, such as in Sri Lanka and Nepal, moved from economic to “more and more interference in domestic politics.” Curtis said China’s influence in South Asia had grown significantly over the past 20 years. And Beijing’s actions were causing blowback. The Maldivian people had “pushed back” attempts by former president, Mohammed Yameen, to make his country dependent on Chinese debt by voting him out of office. Yameen had “awarded construction contracts to Chinese companies at inflated prices and without transparent bidding, leaving the Maldivian people with enormous debt.” After discussing US attempts to roll back Chinese influence in Central Asia, Curtis mentioned Pakistan at the end of her written comments. “Nowhere in South and Central Asia has Chinese influence been more invasive than in Pakistan.” The $60 billion China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) was neither aid nor an equity investment of the kind that had propelled China’s own growth. CPEC is being financed through sovereign debt — which means the “risks are borne by the Pakistani people and the benefits accrue to China.” However, she cited Beijing and Washington’s common support for an end to violence in Afghanistan as evidence the two countries could work together and stressed the US had “deep and abiding respect for the Chinese people.”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-showed-will-capability-to-stand-up-to-china-us-official/story-sIOu9esntDyLEThewPybkM.html
01-08-2020||India||Rafale jets touch down amid fanfare in Ambala||Ending the Indian Air Force’s wait for new fighter jets to sharpen its combat potential, five Rafales of the 36 ordered by the IAF landed at the Ambala airbase on Wednesday, with their pilots arriving home to a heroes’ welcome after completing a two-leg flight covering 8,500km from France with a stopover at the Al Dhafra airbase near Abu Dhabi.The jets have come at a time when India and China are locked in border tensions in eastern Ladakh. Shortly after they landed, defence minister Rajnath Singh said the new fighters would enhance the IAF’s capabilities and deter any threat to the country. He also said those who want to threaten India’s territorial integrity should be worried about the new capability.Also read: Moments after Rafale fighter jets land, Rajnath Singh’s veiled warning to China“This aircraft has very good flying performance and its weapons, radar and other sensors and electronic warfare capabilities are amongst the best in the world. Its arrival in India will make the IAF much stronger to deter any threat that may be posed to our country,” Singh said in series of tweets on the Rafale jets.The Rafales will significantly enhance the offensive capabilities of the air force and prove to be a game changer with their advanced weaponry, high-tech sensors, superior radar for detection and tracking of targets and ability to carry an impressive payload, experts previously told Hindustan Times.The arrival of the Rafales is just the beginning of their operational journey, said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies. “The IAF will now accelerate bringing the Rafale into its offensive architecture in the shortest possible time,” he said.Two IAF Sukhoi-30s joined the arrow formation of the five Rafales after they entered Indian airspace in the western sector and escorted the fighter jets to their home base where the planes were given a water salute in time-honoured aviation tradition.In another tweet that possibly targeted China and internal critics of the Rafale deal, Singh said if anyone should be worried or be critical about the IAF’s new capability, it should be those who want to threaten India’s territorial integrity. Singh said the jets would revolutionise the capabilities of the IAF.The deal for the warplanes became controversial over allegations of corruption levelled by the Congress in the run up to the 2019 general elections, though the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government rejected the charge. The NDA government’s decision to buy 36 Rafales was announced in April 2015, with the deal signed a little more than a year later. This replaced the previous United Progressive Alliance’s decision to buy 126 Rafale aircraft, 108 of which were to be made in India by state-owned Hindustan Aeronautics Limited using parts imported from France. A Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) audit tabled in February last year concluded that the new deal was 2.86% cheaper than the price negotiated by the UPA government. It did not disclose pricing details.The Rafales will be a part of the IAF’s No. 17 Squadron, which is also known as the “Golden Arrows”. The aircrew that brought the Rafales to India was headed by Group Captain Harkirat Singh, a decorated fighter pilot, who is the commanding officer of the No. 17 Squadron. Indian destroyer INS Kolkata, deployed in the Western Arabian Sea, made radio contact with Singh (Arrow leader), with the captain of the warship welcoming the Rafales to Indian Ocean. Singh responded by saying, “Many thanks. Most reassuring to have an Indian warship guarding the seas.”In the brief conversation, the commanding officer of INS Kolkata said: “May you touch the sky with glory. Happy landings.” Singh replied: “Wish you fair winds. Happy hunting. Over and out.”The aircraft covered a distance of nearly 8,500km from France to India. “The first stage of the flight covered a distance of 5,800km in seven and a half hours (from Merignac to Al Dhafra). The second stage of the flight covering over 2,700km was carried out with air-to-air refuelling by IAF tanker,” the IAF said in a statement.While the French air force refuelled the fighters — three single-seater and two twin-seater aircraft — using its Airbus A330 multi-role tanker transport (MRTT) aircraft on their way to Al Dhafra, aerial refuelling support was provided by the IAF’s Russian Ilyushin-78 refuellers for the second leg of the journey from Al Dhafra to Ambala.IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria and senior air force officials welcomed the Rafales and the pilots at Ambala. The first Rafale’s RB-001 tail number denotes the initials of the IAF chief: Rakesh Bhadauria. He led the complex negotiations for the Rafale deal.The new fighters — the first imported jets to be inducted into the IAF in 23 years after the Russian Sukhoi-30 jets entered service in June 1997 — will significantly enhance the offensive capabilities of IAF, which has for long planned to update its fighter jet force. The jets -- the first of the 36 Rafale jets purchased from French firm Dassault in a government-to-government deal worth Rs 59,000 crore in September 2016 -- have been specially tailored for IAF.The Rafale will be armed with Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missiles, Mica multi-mission air-to-air missiles and Scalp deep-strike cruise missiles --- weapons that will allow fighter pilots to attack air and ground targets from standoff ranges and fill a significant capability gap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rafale-jets-touch-down-amid-fanfare-in-ambala/story-9tNUyTJbjlghbGKx06lAVK.html
