02-08-2020||India||HC tells accused to get rakhi tied by survivor||Bhopal: The Indore bench of the Madhya Pradesh high court has granted bail to a man accused of sexual harassment on condition that he would visit the complainant with a box of sweets, request her to tie a Rakhi on his wrist, promise to protect her and gift her Rs 11,000 as part of the customs observed on Raksha Bandhan day.The court, through its order passed on Thursday, granted bail to the man on a personal bond of Rs 50,000 with one solvent surety of an equal amount .I“The applicant along with his wife shall visit the house of the complainant with a Rakhi thread / band at 11 am on August 3 with a box of sweets and request the complainant to tie the Rakhi band to him with the promise to protect her to the best of his ability for all times to come,” a single bench of justice Rohit Arya said in the order.“He shall also tender Rs 11,000 to the complainant as a customary ritual usually offered by the brothers to sisters on such occasion and shall also seek her blessings. The applicant shall also tender Rs 5,000 to the son of the complainant for purchase of clothes and sweets,” the order added. The bail applicant was ordered to produce photographs of the occasion and receipts of payments to the complainant and her son before the court registry. “The woman, a resident of Ujjain district, lodged a complaint against her neighbour on April 20 that he had barged into her house and sexually harassed her,” government advocate Sudhanshu Vyas said. An FIR {first information report} was registered with Bhatpachalana police station under section 354 (sexual harassment), 452 (house trespass), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC {Indian Penal Code}.” Vishal Patidar, the lawyer for the accused, said the bail petition had been filed on grounds that the man was the only earning member of his family, which had come to the brink of starvation after his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-tells-accused-to-get-rakhi-tied-by-survivor/story-tjZ0IzXDNusYDEIyRsGJYN.html
02-08-2020||India||Home minister Amit Shah tests Covid+, hospitalised||New Delhi: Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday tested positive for coronavirus disease and was admitted to Medanta hospital in Gurugram. Amit Shah, who is the first union cabinet minister to have tested positive for Covid-19, announced this on Twitter : “After showing initial symptoms, I underwent a test for coronavirus and the report came out positive. My health is fine but I am being admitted to the hospital on the advice of doctors”. The home minister also requested those who came in his contact in last few days to isolate themselves and get tested. Among those who have met Amit Shah in last few days and have gone into isolation are BJP leader Vinay Sahasrabuddhe and Babul Supriyo. Babul Supriyo tweeted “I had met Honble HM Amit Shah Ji day before in the evening. I am advised by doctors to confine myself, away from my family members, for the next few days with a test to be done soon”. Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, who was attending regular meetings with the home minister, few joint secretaries and Shah’s personal staff as well as security personnel deployed in his close proximity are also likely to be in isolation and undergo tests, government officials familiar with the matter said. The officials added that Amit Shah has had a full schedule for the past few days: he was present at the cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last Wednesday, in which the government approved the new National Education Policy (NEP). However, social distancing was strictly followed along with wearing of masks at the cabinet meeting at the PM’s residence, the officials said. “There is a strict protocol at PM’s residence in the last few months which includes temperature checks, analyzing a person’s status through Aarogya Setu app and proper hand sanitization,” said an official who didn’t wish to be named. During the plast few days, Shah is learnt to have attended crucial meetings on security, party meetings and met several persons at his office. On Saturday, Shah addressed the Indian Council of Cultural Relations’ (ICCR) online conference on Bal Gangadhar Tilak, marking 100 years of the freedom fighter’s death August 1, 1920. While the conference was online, there was a physical component to it as well -- and Sahasrabuddhe , who is also the head of ICCR, met Shah during this. The home minister was also supposed to attend the ground breaking ceremony of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya on August 5, but the officials said that this seems difficult now. There was no information available on how many leaders have been in touch with Shah in the last few days; the newly appointed state unit presidents of Haryana, OP Dhankar and Gujarat, CR Patil called on him on July 24. The party headquarters is also out of bounds for visitors, only a handful of functionaries are allowed into the building. Soon after the news of Shah’s Covid-19 positive result broke, several political leaders from various parties including Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Delhi chief minister Arving Kejriwal, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel among others wished him speedy recovery on their Twitter accounts. Defence minister Rajnath Singh and BJP President J P Nadda too posted messages wishing him good health. “Amitji, your perseverance and willpower has been an example for every challenge. I believe you will definitely win over this big challenge of coronavirus. I pray to God for your speedy recovery,” Rajnath Singh tweeted. Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, is currently recovering in a hospital after he tested positive for coronavirus. According to people familiar with the matter in Medanta, Shah is in no discomfort. He was admitted around 4.30pm in the internal medicine department and is under the care of Dr Suhsila Kataria, who is an internal medicine physician at the hospital, and specializes in treating infectious diseases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-minister-amit-shah-tests-covid-hospitalised/story-19wGUQIMLHxdmx77ckgjLJ.html
02-08-2020||India||DU prof Babu had links with insurgent groups, says NIA||New Delhi: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday claimed that the Delhi University professor Hany Babu MT had links with Manipur-based insurgent group Kangkeipak Communist Party-Military Council (KCP-MC). The agency also said that it has retrieved several communications of the DU professor with other Manipur-based outfits. Based on Hany Babu’s questioning, an NIA team also searched his residence in Noida on Sunday morning. His wife Jenny Rowena, who teaches at Miranda House, was present during the raid, which she termed as “harassment”. Babu is currently being interrogated by the NIA after he was arrested last week in Bhima-Koregaon case. The KCP is a banned northeast-based insurgent group which indulges in extortion from government offices on the pretext of protection money and is involved in several violent incidents over the years, a counter-insurgency official, who didn’t wish to be named, said. “The banned outfit is active and has a solid base in Manipur, Myanmar and Nepal. They also have strong links with the Naxals as they exchange arms and ammunition with them. It has several factions but the parent organization is KCP itself,” this official said. Talking of Hany Babu’s links with the KCP-MC, a NIA statement said on Sunday, “Hany Babu MT was found to be a co-conspirator along with other accused persons propagating Naxal activities and Maoist ideology. The investigation also revealed that Hany Babu was in contact with Paikhomba Meitei, Secretary Information and Publicity, Military Affairs of Kangkeipak Communist Party (MC), an organisation banned under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.” “An interview of Ganapathy, General Secretary of CPI (Maoist) was shared by Paikhomba Meitei with the accused Hany Babu. Communications of Hany Babu with other Maoists of Manipur have also been retrieved,” the agency added. It further alleged that “after the release of CPI (Maoist) leader Pallath Govindankutty, Hany Babu, along with co-accused Rona Wilson, took the initiative to help him financially by raising funds.” “Hany Babu, along with other accused persons namely Rona Wilson, Anand Teltumbde, P Varavara Rao and Surendra Gadling formed a Committee for the release of GN Saibaba who was sentenced to life imprisonment for his links with CPI (Maoist),” NIA statement said. During the raid on Sunday, the agency team recovered an account ledger, a receipt book of the committee for the defence and release of Dr GN Saibaba and several documents, it added. The agency has alleged that the Elgar-Parishad event at Pune on December 31, 2017, promoted enmity between various caste groups and led to violence resulting in loss of life and property and a state-wide agitation in Maharashtra. “The investigation revealed that the Elgar Parishad along with Maoist leaders used the incident to spread the ideology of Maoism/Naxalism and encourage unlawful activities on the instructions of the leaders of CPI (Maoist), a banned organization,” it said. Jenny Rowena said, “I was alone with my daughter, so I did not let them enter my house till I call a friend. They cannot barge into my house without any prior notice. It’s so unsafe.” Rowena said that they were looking for some specific things. “They did not search the whole house. They asked for some specific things like receipts of donations received for the Saibaba defence committee. Babu has a drawer in which he keeps all the receipts. I gave them the receipts and they left,” she said. “Babu’s bail application is going to be heard day after tomorrow and immediately before that they are running for things to show (in the court),” she added. Delhi University Teachers Association (DUTA) president Rajib Ray said, “I strongly protest and urge the government to desist from these illegal, strong-arm tactics and immediately stop this witch hunt against academics and scholars.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/du-prof-babu-had-links-with-insurgent-groups-says-nia/story-3CQFCrdybh28xMp7XkTeXK.html
02-08-2020||India||Yogi’s visit to Ayodhya called off as minister dies of Covid-19||LUCKNOW:Uttar Pradesh minister Kamal Rani Varun died of the coronavirus disease at a hospital here on Sunday. The technical education minister was 62. Following her demise, chief minister Yogi Adityanath cancelled his pre-scheduled visit to Ayodhya, additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi said. The CM was supposed to visit Ayodhya to review the preparations for Ram Temple foundation laying ceremony on August 5.The state government also declared a one-day state mourning on Sunday.“She was suffering from fever, cough and breathlessness and was admitted to PGI’s Rajdhani Covid Hospital after she tested positive on July 18. She also had co-morbidities in the form of diabetes mellitus, hypertension and hypothyroidism. She had bilateral pneumonia at the time of admission and was shifted to the ICU on the day of admission itself because of high oxygen requirement,” said Dr Radha Krishna Dheeman, director of Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS). “We even sought expert advice from professor Randeep Guleria, director AIIMS and professor Ritesh Agarwal, PGIMER, Chandigarh to save the minister. However, she did not respond to medical therapy. She was put on mechanical ventilator on Saturday but her condition continued to deteriorate with hypotension and multi-organ dysfunction and she succumbed to her illness on Sunday at 9:30 am,” he said. Her funeral rites were conducted at the Bhairo Ghat crematorium in Kanpur in accordance with Covid-19 protocols. “A guard of honour was given as soon as her body reached Bhairo Ghat crematorium,” Kanpur district magistrate Brahmdeo Ram Tiwari said. President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, UP governor Anandiben Patel, UP Cm, cabinet ministers and political leaders across party lines condoled her demise.Meanwhile, UP Bharatiya Janata Party chief Swatantra Dev Singh has also tested positive for Covid-19. “I had been experiencing initial symptoms of Covid-19 and underwent a test for it. I was found positive for Covid-19,” Singh tweeted in Hindi. The leader requested his acquaintances, who came in his contact recently, to get themselves tested for the infection. “On the advice of doctors, I have quarantined myself at my home. I request all the residents of UP to exercise caution and strictly adhere to the guidelines of the government,” he said in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-s-visit-to-ayodhya-called-off-as-minister-dies-of-covid-19/story-t7Zk9uMa7vbDWro9OiLA8L.html
02-08-2020||India||MHA seeks three more months to frame CAA rules||New Delhi: The ministry of home affairs (MHA) has sought three more months to frame the rules of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) from a Department Related Standing Committee of Parliament, officials familiar with the development said. The Act was passed by Parliament in December last year.According to the Manual on Parliamentary Work, rules for legislation should be framed within six months of the date of the President’s assent or the standing committee on subordinate legislation should be approached for extension of time. The Act aims to grant Indian citizenship to religious minorities - Hindus, Sikhs, Jains, Buddhist, Christians and Parsis -- from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh, who have fled their countries fearing religious persecution. The law, which excludes Muslims, will be applicable to those who entered India before December 2014. A senior officer cited above said that “the additional time has been sought to frame the rules as the ministry was busy in other work for the past several months. The rules will be framed soon”. The manual on Parliamentary Work states that in case the ministries/departments are not able to frame the rules within the prescribed period of six months, “they should seek extension of time from the Committee on Subordinate Legislation stating reasons for such extension” which cannot be more than for a period of three months at a time. The government has claimed that while the rules are being framed, the non-Muslim refugees from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan will have to provide proof of their religious beliefs while applying for citizenship. The applicants belonging to Hindu, Sikh, Christian, Buddhist, Jain or Parsi faiths will also have to furnish documents to prove that they entered India on or before December 31, 2014, according to officials. After the CAA was passed by Parliament, widespread protests erupted in the country. Those opposing the CAA contend that it discriminates on the basis of religion and violates the Constitution. They also alleged that the CAA, along with the National Register of Citizens, is intended to target the Muslim community in India. However, Union home minister Amit Shah had dismissed the allegations and described the protests against the CAA as “mostly political”. He had asserted that no Indian will lose citizenship due to the Act. Lok Sabha had passed the CAA legislation on December 9, 2019 and Rajya Sabha on December 11, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-seeks-three-more-months-to-frame-caa-rules/story-57kZw6hBz1FL84dml2xoLL.html
02-08-2020||India||Graffiti, Ram dhun, diyas in Ayodhya ahead of Aug 5||Preparations are in full-swing in Ayodhya ahead of the bhoomi pujan (foundation-laying ceremony) for the Ram temple on August 5 -- all temples, ghats, streets are being spruced up ahead of the event.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation stone of the Ram temple in a grand ceremony, which will be attended by several dignitaries, on Wednesday.Every nook and corner of the town are being spruced up. Walls have been painted with graffiti and images depicting scenes from the Ramayan. Buildings on main streets across the temple town are being painted yellow.“Yellow is an auspicious colour. In Hindu tradition, yellow is used in all ceremonies. It symbolises purity and light,” said Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, successor-designate to Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, chairman of the the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra, the organiser of the event.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to offer prayers at Hanuman Garhi (on August 5). The entire temple is being spruced up,” said Raju Das, a priest at Hanuman Garhi.“Around 3000 sound systems are playing ‘Ram Dhun’ across Ayodhya,” said Rishikesh Upadhyay, mayor of Ayodhya. These sound systems will also play Vedic hymns during the bhoomi pujan. These sound systems will also be used by the Ayodhya administration to issue directives to public in case of any emergency situation. Nearly 500 sanitation workers are working round the clock to keep the city clean.More than a lakh diyas (earthen lamps) will sparkle in Ayodhya for two days from August 4, a day before bhoomi pujan.Around 20,000 temples across the pilgrim town have been given a new look for the ceremony. “We have requested everyone to decorate their houses with rangoli, diyas (earthen lamps) and lights to mark bhoomi pujan for construction of the Ram temple,” said Ved Prakash Gupta, Bharatiya Janata Party MLA from Ayodhya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/graffiti-ram-dhun-diyas-in-ayodhya-ahead-of-aug-5/story-dJeFhHUAGnSVPXTatgMHeO.html
02-08-2020||India||MP police restricts leaves, DGP says Covid spreading among cops due to ‘carelessness’||An order by Madhya Pradesh’s director general of police (DGP) Vivek Johri has barred policemen in the state from leaving their headquarters except in emergency situations. He has also said that the rising number of infections in the police force were a result of carelessness shown by officials and personnel in following the anti-Covid 19 standard operating procedure (SOP).The order and the observation form part of a circular issued by the DGP, marked to heads of all police units and all superintendents of police in districts and in railways. The Congress party termed the order irrational and said that the policemen were risking their own lives to protect others. The party demanded that the state home minister withdraws the order immediately.Also Read: MP High Court asks sexual harassment accused to request victim to tie him a rakhi The DGP’s circular dated August 1, 2020 states, “In the past few days, a good number of police officials/personnel have been infected with novel Coronavirus (Covid-19). Through this office’s letter dated June 12, 2020, SOP regarding Covid-19 was conveyed to all the police units. Despite this, police officials/personnel adopted carelessness that resulted in 255 active cases of Corona among police officials/personnel and approximately four times of the same among them are in quarantine.” The circular further reasons that the increasing number of infections in the police force was due to personnel not following adequate precautions while on leave and flouting quarantine norms when rejoining duty.“In view of the increasing infections of Corona among the policemen, the leave of police officials/personnel to leave their headquarters is immediately stopped. Those who have got the leave can proceed on leave only after permission from inspector general of police concerned. It should be ensured that sanction of leave/leaving the headquarters should be allowed only in emergency situation in regard with their family and health,” said the circular. Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Vivek Tankha wrote to home minister Narottam Mishra calling the order irrational.“The DGP’s order is not rational. Of course, protecting the jawans from Corona should be the first priority but we all know that more than 1.5 lakh police officials and personnel have risked their life while discharging their duties to protect life of people across the state in the past six months,” Tankha stated in his letter.Also Read: MP school girl ends life since parents didn’t buy her smartphone for online classesHe added that the policemen are bound to come in contact with others during patrol duty, checking of vehicles, maintaining law and order etc. and thus they are always susceptible to contracting the virus. “In the past also the police headquarters had issued an irrational order which was later withdrawn in view of its impracticality. The police personnel don’t have adequate housing facility as well. In view of the difficulties the policemen are facing at the lower level, the order should be immediately withdrawn,” Tankha’s letter said. Home minister Narottam Mishra couldn’t be reached for his comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-police-restricts-leaves-dgp-says-covid-spreading-among-cops-due-to-carelessness/story-AT9gpKUAzD1yoAKW0IHNaI.html
02-08-2020||India||Phase-1 of Ayodhya station modelled on Ram Mandir to be completed by June 2021||The first phase of the new Ayodhya railway station which is being remodelled on Ram Mandir is scheduled to be completed by June 2021, officials aware of the development said.The construction of the new station began in 2019 by the government’s construction arm RITES and has been sanctioned a total amount of Rs 104 crore.The move comes just ahead of the foundation stone laying ceremony of the Ram Temple on August 5.The construction of the new building will be in two phases, the first phase will include the development work in the main three platforms, the development of the current circulating area and the development of the holding area. In the second phase, the construction of the new station building, and the construction of other facilities will take place.“The holy land of faith, devotion and spirituality and dignity Purushottam Lord Ram’s holy birthplace Ayodhya has been the focal point of devotion and faith in the middle of the whole world since ages… Due to this importance, the railway station of Ayodhya city also holds a special place for Indian Railways,” a northern railways spokesperson said.“Keeping in view the importance, the railways is in the direction of providing high class infrastructural facilities, passenger amenities, cleanliness, beauty and various desired facilities with high quality standards at the Ayodhya railway station,” he added. The new facilities will include renovation of the internal and external premises of the station to increase the facilities available at the station such as expansion of the number of ticket counters, waiting room expansion, three restrooms with air-conditioned facility, 17-bed male dormitory with toilet, 10-bed female dormitory with toilet, continuous work is underway towards providing other desired facilities including an additional foot over bridge, food plaza, shops and additional toilets.“Constant construction and development work is in progress, ensuring availability of many other desired facilities, including VIP lounge, auditorium and special guest house…Constant efforts are being made to provide a new form so that the division can provide modern facilities equipped with high standards for the visiting devotees and tourists visiting this station while attracting the whole world in the coming time,” said Rajiv Chaudhry, General Manager Northern and North Central Railways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-phase-of-ayodhya-railway-station-modelled-on-ram-mandir-to-be-completed-by-june-2021/story-KW6BaKvnhZKbfo9NzYAI1L.html
02-08-2020||India||Heavy rainfall to lash west coast, peninsular India this week; more areas flooded in UP, Bihar||Intense rainfall is predicted in Mumbai and other areas on the west coast and in peninsular India during the next three days as the monsoon is likely to strengthen over the Arabian Sea, weather forecasting agencies said on Sunday.A low-pressure area is likely to develop over north Bay of Bengal and move into Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh, and then to central Maharashtra and Gujarat, bringing heavy rainfall, the India Meteorological Department said. Jharkhand and Gangetic West Bengal may also receive moderate rainfall on Tuesday and Wednesday, it said.A monsoon trough is likely to shift southwards and strengthen during the next three to four days and lash Goa, coastal Karnataka and Kerala with widespread rainfall.The weather office has sounded an orange alert for heavy rainfall in Kerala’s nine districts, including Kottayam, Idukki, Thrissur, Kozhikode and Wayanad, from Tuesday.Heavy rainfall in Mumbai and its suburbs from Monday may lead to widespread waterlogging and traffic jams. This will be the first heavy spell after July 15 in the metropolis and its suburbs, private forecaster Skymet Weather said.Meanwhile the flood situation in Bihar worsened as fresh areas were inundated. A total of 53.67 lakh people have been affected in the state and the number has gone up by 4.62 lakh since Saturday, the disaster management authority said in Patna.Fourteen districts have been affected by flood, including the worst-hit Muzaffarpur.Early Sunday, the Tirhut canal breached its embankment in Muzaffarpur district, inundating at least a dozen villages. Two NDRF teams have been deployed at the site.Baghmati, Burhi Gandak, Kamlabalan, Adhwara, Khiroi, Mahananda and Ghaghra rivers are flowing above the danger level at various places and the weather department has forecast light rain in the catchment areas on Monday.Also on Sunday, over 60 villages in Uttar Pradesh’s Bahraich district were inundated after Nepal released water into rivers from its three barrages. This affected over 1.50 lakh people and damaged 171 houses, a district administration official said, adding that the National Disaster Response Force personnel were rescuing people.“As many as 455 villages in 14 districts of the state have been affected by flood. Of these, 98 villages are marooned,” said a UP government spokesperson in Lucknow.The 14 districts affected by flood include Barabanki, Ayodhya, Kushinagar, Gorakhpur, Lakhimpur Khiri, Bahraich and Azamgarh.Heavy rainfall is very likely at isolated places in the state until Wednesday.A sultry weather prevailed in Delhi, Haryana and Punjab in absence of rain. The weather department said the condition will prevail for a week.The meteorology department in Delhi recorded a maximum temperature of 37 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal, and humidity levels shot up to 95 per cent.Chandigarh, the common capital of Haryana and Punjab, recorded a maximum of 34.5 degrees Celsius, one notch above the normal.In Haryana, Hisar recorded a high of 37.9 degrees Celsius, up two notches against normal. Amritsar and Ludhiana in Punjab recorded above normal temperatures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rainfall-to-lash-west-coast-peninsular-india-this-week-more-areas-flooded-in-up-bihar/story-MV17Sz0knpY9Dx9jgcjppK.html
02-08-2020||India||MP school girl ends life since parents didn’t buy her smartphone for online classes||A minor girl allegedly committed suicide in Madhya Pradesh’s Chhindwara district, 273 km south east of Bhopal, after her father-- a farmer with a smallholding-- couldn’t immediately afford a smartphone for her online classes, said police. The incident took place at Poama village, about 3 kilometres from the district headquarters, under Dehat police station on Thursday. However, it came to light on Saturday, said police. The girl’s mother Shashi Yuvnati said, “My daughter was enrolled for class 12 in her school this year. She wanted a smartphone for her online classes as her school is closed due to Coronavirus. We asked her to wait for some time. On Thursday, she had a fight with us over the smartphone. When we went away she consumed some poison. My younger daughter informed us about the incident. We took her to a hospital but she passed away.” Also Read: Woman, minor daughter gang raped, hospitalised in Madhya PradeshCity superintendent of police (CSP) Ashok Tiwari said, “We came to know that the girl died by suicide on July 30 as she was denied a mobile phone by her family for her online classes. Based on the information, an FIR was lodged. We are investigating the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-school-girl-ends-life-since-parents-didn-t-buy-her-smartphone-for-online-classes/story-CMx83bAkqbv5EnD8tUzh7N.html
02-08-2020||India||Local BJP leader killed in Chhattisgarh village, accused held||A local BJP leader and former sarpanch was allegedly killed by his neighbour following an argument in Janjgir-Champa district of Chhattisgarh, police said on Sunday.The accused, identified as Shivcharan Lahre (30), was arrested after he surrendered before the police after committing the crime on Saturday night, a local official said.Jangir-Champa, a neighbouring district of Korba, is located around250 kms away from capital Raipur.“As per the preliminary information, victim Gopichand Karsh (52) went to the Lahre’s house in Virra village on Saturday night after he came to know that he was creating nuisance in an inebriated state and using foul language,” he said.Karsh tried to pacify the accused, but soon an argument broke out between them. In a fit of rage, Karsh slapped Lahre in front of his family members, the police official said.“Some time later, as Karsh started returning to his house, the accused attacked him with a sharp-edged weapon, leaving him dead on the spot,” he said.After committing the crime, the accused reached Virra police station and surrendered, he said.Karsh was a local BJP leader and had been sarpanch of his village in the past, he said.He was booked under IPC section 302, the official said, adding that further investigation into the case was underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/local-bjp-leader-killed-in-chhattisgarh-village-accused-held/story-DWvxYCWvO6VXFd48ez174J.html
02-08-2020||India||Bengal fixes Covid-19 tests, kits rates after hospitals found fleecing patients||Flooded by complaints of exorbitant rates being charged from Covid-19 patients for medicines, PPE kits, swab tests etc by private hospitals and laboratories, the West Bengal government has issued seven new advisories, fixing the rates. The government has also imposed curbs on use of critical care medicines carrying different price tags. Most hospitals are charging patients for the most expensive antibiotics, antifungals, analgesics and other drugs although these are available in different price ranges, the government has said in one of the advisories. “Patients’ relatives shall be offered to choose which branch they would like to purchase,” the advisory adds. On July 27, chief minister Mamata Banerjee told Prime Minister Narendra Modi that he could tell the world that the Bengal government is offering “totally free treatment”. She made the remark during a virtual meeting with the PM. While Banerjee referred to government hospitals, the scenario in private hospitals is completely different if one goes by the advisories. There are 28 government hospitals dedicated to Covid-19 patients against 55 private hospitals of the same category. On Sunday, 2,739 new Covid-19 cases and 49 deaths were reported in the state. On Saturday, the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission issued seven separate advisories, saying numerous anomalies had come to its notice. All hospitals and laboratories in the state are registered under the Clinical Establishment (Registration, Regulation and Transparency) Act. The state health department had earlier issued three notices to private hospitals but the complaints did not stop. In most cases, the patients alleged that they were charged in excess of Rs 5 lakh although antibiotics and oxygen were all they needed. The commission has said that high-end antibiotics such as “Meropenem” used in critical care management, are available under different brands having different price tags and henceforth hospitals must keep adequate stock of at least 3/ 4 brands. Unless a doctor specifically prescribes a particular brand the pharmacy must supply “Meropenem” having the lowest price tag, the commission has said. Citing the dearth of beds in hospitals, the commission said that if there are more patients waiting at the emergency compared to the number of vacant beds available, only the doctor-on-duty would assess the condition of the waiting patients and allot beds to the deserving ones, ignoring any other extraneous consideration or recommendations. “The same procedure would be followed in case of transfer of a patient from normal bed to ICU/ITU,” said an advisory. Incidentally there are numerous complaints that patients have been kept in ICU for long periods only to inflate bills. “The government has already fixed a sum of Rs 1,000 per day on account of PPE to be charged in the in-patient bill. However, some of the clinical establishments are charging additional amounts on account of sanitizer, additional gloves, head gear, etc,” said an advisory, adding that it cannot be done. “It has come to the notice of the commission that the pathological laboratories authorized to conduct Covid-19 tests by way of home collection are charging additional amounts over and excess of Rs 2,250 fixed by the government,” said one of the advisories. It said that if samples are collected from a person’s residence the laboratories cannot charge conveyance fee of more than Rs 10 per kilometre calculated on the basis of the distance between the laboratory and the customer’s home. The commission has said that many hospitals are charging various amounts in their out patients departments “in the guise of sanitary charges in addition to the doctor consultation fee”. No more than Rs 50 can be charged from a patient and another Rs 50 if the consultant doctor wears a full PPE kit, said an advisory. Reacting to the advisories, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said the government has so far failed to monitor hospitals. “On the one hand we are seeing people turning paupers after footing exorbitant hospital bills while on the other the government is issuing advisories. The government should have monitored what is going on and listened to experts,” said Rahul Sinha, BJP national secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-govt-fixes-rates-of-covid-19-tests-kits-after-private-hospitals-found-fleecing-patients/story-uUgfjfa59gDL5Sijp3UbMM.html
02-08-2020||India||‘Mind your business’: Punjab CM to Kejriwal on demand for CBI probe into hooch deaths||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday hit back at his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal for demanding a CBI probe into the state’s hooch tragedy, saying the AAP leader should “mind his own business”. Amarinder Singh further asked the Delhi chief minister “not to exploit the tragic affair for reviving his defunct Aam Aadmi Party’s stake in the state”. Kejriwal in his tweet on Sunday demanded a CBI probe into the Punjab hooch tragedy, which has claimed 98 lives so far. Slamming Kejriwal, the CM in a statement said, “So many people have died and all you are interested in is making political meat from the incident. Don’t you have any shame.” Asking the AAP leader to “mind his own business”, the Punjab CM said his Delhi counterpart should concentrate on maintaining law and order in his own state, which was “notorious for the brazen manner in which criminals and gangs were roaming the streets without fear”. Trashing Kejriwal’s claim that “none of the illicit liquor cases from the last few months have been solved by the local police”, the Punjab CM asked the AAP leader to verify his facts “before shooting through his mouth”. Citing that an illicit liquor factory was busted in Khanna on April 22, the CM said eight accused were arrested and a manhunt was launched for seven others. In another case, two kingpins behind an illicit liquor distillery operating in Patiala district were arrested on May 22 and June 13 this year, and on July 10, a challan was filed in the court, the Punjab chief minister said. Expressing full faith in the Punjab police, the CM said Kejriwal’s demand for a CBI probe was nothing but a “political gimmick”, aimed at “regaining lost foothold” for his party, which had “completely lost ground” in Punjab despite being the principal opposition party. The CM said despite the cases of targeted killings in Punjab being handed over the CBI, it was eventually the Punjab Police that had solved the same. Even in the sacrilege cases, the CBI failed to deliver and it is the Punjab Police which is unravelling the case, he claimed. Rather than delaying the investigation and allow the trail to go cold even in the present spurious liquor case by handing over the probe to CBI, he was more interested in ensuring swift action against all those whose greed had cost the state around 100 lives, the CM said in the statement. The CM asked Kejriwal to check out his facts before making “unsubstantiated and wild allegations” against his government, whose track record in curbing crime of all kinds was “exemplary”. “Why don’t you ask your Punjab unit for data and figures first and then comment on our working,” he told the Delhi CM. Singh also advised his Delhi counterpart to concentrate on his state’s “horrendous” Covid situation. “Rather than worrying about Punjab’s affairs, why don’t you take care of the health and lives of Delhiites,” the CM said. Saying that strict action is being taken against all those found guilty in cases of illicit brewing and smuggling, Amarinder Singh said in the hooch tragedy, too, 30 people have already been arrested in three districts. Moreover, 13 officials from the police and excise and taxation departments had been suspended for negligence while investigations are on to ascertain their complicity in the case, he said. A magisterial inquiry had ordered with the mandate to submit its report within a month, he further said, asking what was the need for CBI to take over the case when the local police was handling it so effectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mind-your-business-punjab-cm-to-kejriwal-on-demand-for-cbi-probe-into-hooch-deaths/story-G6rWtU4lWYEmCnghCBz7cI.html
02-08-2020||India||NIA says DU professor Hany Babu has links with Manipur based insurgent group - KCP and others; raids his house||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday claimed that the Delhi University Professor Hany Babu M T had links with Manipur based insurgent group - Kangkeipak Communist Party-Military Council (KCP-MC). The agency also said that it has retrieved several communications of the DU professor with other Manipur-based outfits. Based on Hany Babu’s questioning, the NIA team also searched his residence in Noida on Sunday morning. His wife Jenny Rowena, who teaches at Miranda House, was present during the raid, which she has termed as ‘harassment’. Babu is currently being interrogated by NIA after he was arrested last week in Bhima-Koregaon case. KCP is a banned north east based insurgent group which indulges in extortion from government offices on the pretext of taking protection money and is involved in several violent incidents over the years, a counter-insurgency official, who didn’t wish to be named, said.“The banned outfit is active and has a solid base in Manipur, Myanmar and Nepal. They also have strong links with the Naxals as they exchange arms and ammunition with them. It has several factions but the parent organization is KCP itself,” this official said. Also Read: NIA arrests DU professor Hany Babu in Bhima Koregaon caseSharing Hany Babu’s links with KCP-MC, a NIA statement said on Sunday –“Hany Babu M T was found to be a co-conspirator along with other accused persons propagating Naxal activities and Maoist ideology. The investigation also revealed that Hany Babu was in contact with Paikhomba Meitei, Secretary Information and Publicity, Military Affairs of Kangkeipak Communist Party (MC), an organisation banned under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.” “An interview of Ganapathy, General Secretary of CPI (Maoist) was shared by Paikhomba Meitei with the accused Hany Babu. Communications of Hany Babu with other Maoists of Manipur have also been retrieved,” the agency added. It further alleged that “after the release of CPI (Maoist) leader Pallath Govindankutty, Hany Babu, along with co-accused Rona Wilson, took the initiative to help him financially by raising funds.” “Hany Babu, along with other accused persons namely Rona Wilson, Anand Teltumbde, P Varavara Rao and Surendra Gadling formed a Committee for the release of G N Saibaba who was sentenced to life imprisonment for his links with CPI (Maoist),” NIA statement said. During the raid on Sunday, the agency team recovered one account ledger, one receipt book of the Committee for the Defence and Release of Dr G N Saibaba and several documents, it added. The agency has alleged that the Elgar-Parishad even at Pune on December 31, 2017, promoted enmity between various caste groups and led to violence resulting in loss of life and property and state-wide agitation in Maharashtra. “The investigation revealed that the Elgar Parishad along with Maoist leaders used the incident to spread the ideology of Maoism/Naxalism and encourage unlawful activities on the instructions of the leaders of CPI (Maoist), a banned organization,” it said. Jenny Rowena said – “I was alone with my daughter so I did not let them enter my house till I called a friend. They cannot barge into my house without any prior notice. It’s so unsafe.” Rowena said that they were looking for some specific things. “They did not search the whole house. They asked for some specific things like receipts of donations received for the Saibaba defence committee. Babu has a drawer in which he keeps all the receipts. I gave them the recipients and they left,” she said. “Babu’s bail application is going to be heard the day after tomorrow and immediately before that they are running for things to show (in the court),” she added. Delhi University Teachers Association (DUTA) president Rajib Ray said, “I strongly protest and urge the government to desist from these illegal, strong-arm tactics and immediately stop this witch hunt against academics and scholars.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-says-du-professor-hany-babu-has-links-with-manipur-based-insurgent-group-kcp-and-others-raids-his-house/story-KqkVGV698meodesAG0cVMM.html
02-08-2020||India||Two more die in Andaman, 88 new Covid-19 cases reported||Two more persons died due to Covid-19 in Andaman and Nicobar Islands, taking the toll in the Union Territory to seven, a senior official said on Sunday.One is a 48-year-old man, and the other an 85-year-old woman, both residents of Port Blair, he said.At least 88 fresh cases were reported in the archipelago since Saturday, pushing the tally to 636.Ten of them have recently returned to the state from Chennai, while the rest are those that have come in contact with other coronavirus-positive patients, the official said.Twelve people have recovered from the infection in the last 24 hours, he added.The Union Territory currently has 403 active cases.The total number of recoveries has climbed to 226.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-more-die-in-andaman-88-new-covid-19-cases-reported/story-DUEKZz08dQbMUD2CtFl6JI.html
02-08-2020||India||Centre asks states, UTs to allow hospitalised Covid-19 patients use smartphones to interact with kin||The Centre has written to all states and Union Territories stating that smartphones and tablet devices should be allowed for hospitalised Covid-19 patients so that they can interact with family and friends through video conferencing, which would provide them psychological support.Though mobile phones are allowed in hospital wards, the missive was issued following some representation from the kin of patients alleging otherwise.Director General of Health Services (DGHS) in the Health Ministry Dr Rajiv Garg in the letter to the principal secretaries of health and medical education of states and Union territories said appropriate protocols for disinfecting devices and allotting timeslots can be developed by the hospital concerned to facilitate contact between patients and their family.He underlined that administrative and medical teams should be responsive to the psychological needs of patients admitted in Covid-19 wards and ICUs of various hospitals.“Social connection can calm down patients and also reinforce the psychological support given by the treating team. Please instruct all concerned that they should allow smartphones and tablet devices in patient area so that the patient can video conference with their family and friends,” stated the letter issued on July 29.“Though mobile phones are allowed in the wards to enable a patient stay in touch with his or her family, we received representations from the patient families from some states stating mobile phones are not being allowed by hospital administrations because of which they were not being able to stay in contact with the patient,” said Dr Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-states-uts-to-allow-hospitalised-covid-19-patients-use-smartphones-to-interact-with-kin/story-1jBxSYk7JtFqmyJlks0uaL.html
02-08-2020||India||New sero-survey: One-fourth of samples to be taken from people in 50 and above age group||The new sero-prevalence survey in the national capital will exclude those who were part of the previous exercise and 25 per cent of the fresh samples in all districts will be taken from persons aged 50 and above, according to a standard operating procedure prescribed for it. As per the SOP for the survey that began on Saturday, each sample collection team is to collect 25-40 samples per day.  “All districts are to ensure that out of total number of samples, 25 per cent are of those younger than 18 years of age, another 50 per cent are in the age group of 18-49 years and remaining 25 per cent of those in the age group of 50 years or more,” reads the SOP prescribed by the Delhi’s Directorate General of Health Services. The fresh exercise is being undertaken for a comprehensive assessment of the Covid-19 situation in Delhi, but due to Eid holiday not many samples could be collected on Saturday, officials said. Hence it has been decided to extend the survey till August 7, a senior official said on Saturday. Originally, a five-day exercise from August 1-5, it will span all 11 districts of Delhi and cover various demographic segments.  Systematic Random Sampling methodology will be used for collection of samples with mandatory exclusion of individuals or households selected during the last sero-survey conducted in June-July, the SOP says. The survey began with samples collection from various districts, including North Delhi and Northwest Delhi, to start with on Saturday. Sources said six districts are to be covered on Sunday. According to the survey’s standard operating procedure, “selection bias must be avoided” and any individual or household that was included in the previous round of sero-survey “must be excluded”. Teams in the field will collect the samples and will transport the samples the same day to the designated laboratories for processing. Sample collection must be completed latest by 2 pm so that samples reach the designated labs latest by 4 pm, reads the SOP. As per a bulletin released on Sunday, Delhi recorded 961 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally in the city to over 1.37 lakh, while the death toll from the disease mounted to 4,004. The active cases tally on Saturday was 10,356, down from 10,596 the previous day.  A senior government official on Saturday said 15,000 samples would be collected as part of this exercise, spanning different areas and age groups. Representative samples will be taken from all the 11 districts. A sero-prevalence survey involves testing the blood serum of individuals to check for the prevalence of antibodies against infection.  The last sero-prevalence survey was conducted by the Delhi government in association with the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) from June 27 to July 10. It had found that around 23 per cent of the people surveyed had been exposed to the novel coronavirus, the central government had said.The previous study had tested 21,387 samples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-sero-survey-one-fourth-of-samples-to-be-taken-from-people-in-50-and-above-age-group/story-FFA8NJ7aVCfrAfsoJsaU2O.html
02-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Kerala gold smuggling case probe widens with six more arrests by NIA and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kerala gold smuggling case probe widens with six more arrests by NIAThe NIA probe into Kerala gold smuggling case has unearthed involvement of more people leading to six more arrests in the past three days in the sensational matter. NIA also claims to have collected evidence in six raids carried out at places associated with the accused. Read moreAmit Shah admitted to Medanta Hospital in Gurugram after testing Covid-19 positiveUnion Home Minister Amit Shah has been admitted to Medanta Hospital in Haryana’s Gurugram and is believed to be stable, after being diagnosed Covid-19 positive earlier on Sunday afternoon. The Home Minister had tweeted that he is “fine” but was getting hospitalised in keeping with the advice of his doctors. Read moreBabul Supriyo to self-isolate. He met Covid-19 positive Amit Shah a day earlierUnion Minister Babul Supriyo on Sunday said that he had met Home Minister Amit Shah a day earlier and is going into self-isolation as advised by his doctors. The Home Minister tested positive for Covid-19 earlier on Sunday evening. Read moreIPL 2020 to be held from September 19 to November 10The BCCI on Sunday confirmed that IPL 2020will be played from September 19 to November 10 in the UAE, reported news agency PTI. The decision was taken in the IPL Governing Council (GC) meeting. Read moreDisha Salian’s mother on Sushant Singh Rajput’s death: ‘How can there be a connection after meeting him just once?’Sushant Singh Rajput’s ex-manager Disha Salian’s mother feels her death on June 8 does not have any connection with his death on June 14. She also said that she is open to an investigation into her daughter’s death but doesn’t want to experience the same pain all over again. Read moreFrom Pixel 4a to Galaxy Note 20, here are the top phones launching this weekApart from the upcoming Galaxy smartphones, Google will finally be launching its budget Pixel 4a smartphone. Read moreThe future of celebrations: How will weddings, events and gigs look in the new normalNo hugging or shaking hands. No buffets. You’ll likely sit, eat and dance only with those you came with. Weddings, events and gigs, even as they gradually resume, are set to look very different. Read moreWatch: Over 40 Assam cops donate blood plasma after beating Covid-19As per reports, a total of 67 personnel of Assam Police volunteered to donate plasma for treatment of Covid-19 patients out of which 43 personnel were found eligible to donate plasma. Watch the video here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-kerala-gold-smuggling-case-probe-widens-with-six-more-arrests-by-nia-and-all-the-latest-news/story-xtDN71616cC4Hpos14jl9K.html
02-08-2020||India||‘Rafales will provide India major advantage in Tibet in case of aerial combat’: Ex-IAFchief Dhanoa||The Rafale aircraft will give India a strategic advantage in case of any aerial combat with China in the mountainous Tibet region as the fleet will be able to use the terrain to its advantage, destroy enemy air defence and incapacitate the surface-to-air missiles, former Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal (retd) B S Dhanoa said on Sunday. Dhanoa, known as the architect of the Balakot strikes, said the Rafale jets along with S-400 missile systems will give the Indian Air Force a major combat edge in the entire region and that India’s adversaries will think twice before starting a war with it. In case of Pakistan, he said the purpose of the S-400 and Rafale is to hit Pakistani aircraft inside Pakistani air space and not when they come inside Indian territory, adding the neighbouring country would not have responded on February 27 last year to the Balakot air strikes if India had the French-manufactured jets then. In an interview to PTI, Dhanoa said the Rafale, with its fantastic electronic warfare suite and maneuverability, will be able use mountainous terrain in Tibet to its advantage and blind the enemy before India’s strike aircraft penetrate hostile airspace to carry out their missions. The former Chief of Air Staff also said that the Rafales being supplied to the IAF are much more advanced than the ones being used by the French Air Force as India had asked for something “more” due to requirement to operate in unique conditions like operations from Leh. Five Rafale jets out of 36 arrived India last week at a time India is in the midst of a bitter border row with China in the high altitude eastern Ladakh region. “Rafale has got a fantastic Electronic Warfare (EW) suite (SPECTRA), fantastic weapons and therefore are capable of protecting themselves electronically besides being able to use the terrain to their advantage,” Dhanoa said. “So they (Rafales) can play an important role in doing DEAD (Destruction of Enemy Air Defence) on the Surface-to-Air Missiles that the Chinese have put on Tibet. “Once you take out those surface to air missiles, then other aircraft like Su30, Jaguars, even Mig 21s can go out and drop the bombs on the Chinese forces. The strike aircraft carrying bombs can put tonnes and tonnes of bombs on the enemy troops, freely carrying out their mission. But if you do not do DEAD then you will suffer a lot of casualties,” he said. The leading air forces globally carry out Suppression of Enemy Air Defence (SEAD) or DEAD using their top of the line aircraft or weapons before launching any major operation in hostile territories. As the Chief of Air Staff, Dhanoa had strongly defended the Rafale deal when the opposition parties ramped up attack on the government alleging massive irregularities in the procurement. The top IAF brass led by Dhanoa played a key role in implementation of the mega deal. “Against China there are big Himalayan mountains in between us which create serious line of sight issues. You can put a missile with a range of 300-400 kms on the ground in Tibet or in India. But it will only work within the line of sight,” he said. He said the Rafales, with terrain following capability, will give India a major capability enhancement. “In air combat, the first thing that is important is information dominance, you get information and deny the enemy the information. The key role the Rafales will play in Tibet is information dominance and in case of Pakistan, it is a major deterrent. Of course there will be other roles too,” he said. Asked about the comparison between the Rafales and J-20 fighter jets of China, he said the Chinese aircraft is not stealthy and presently, with its current engines, cannot supercruise unlike the newly-acquired Indian fleet. In a beyond visual range (BVR) combat, he said Indian missiles are far superior than theirs. The French avionics on board the Rafale are “far superior” than the Chinese systems in J-20s, he said. “Hence in a BVR environment the Rafales are superior to the J-20s,” he added. “With the induction of the Rafales we will have a tremendous jump in capability. That’s why I called both (Rafale and S 400) of them game changers. Both these platforms will give the IAF a tremendous capability jump. The Rafale in the air and S-400 on the ground. In October 2018, India signed a USD 5 billion deal to buy the S-400 air defence missile systems from Russia to bolster the IAF’s air defence mechanism. The ‘Triumf’ interceptor-based missile system can destroy incoming hostile aircraft, missiles and even drones at ranges of up to 400 km. The delivery of the missile systems is scheduled to begin next year. “Both S-400 and Rafales are critical game changers. Rafale is a deterrent. The purpose of deterrence is not to fight a war. Purpose of deterrence is to make the other person think twice before he starts a war or a skirmish with you,” he said. He said the Pakistanis would not have responded on February 27 last year to India’s Balakot strikes if India had the Rafale jets. In this context, he also mentioned an operation by the IAF to drop bombs on a Pakistani post along the LoC in Kel sector in 2002, and how Pakistani Air Force never dared to respond to it. “On August 2, 2002, we did bombing of a Pakistani post as the Pakistanis had intruded about 600-700 metres inside the LoC in our area and set up a post. We bombed with four Mirage 2000s and after that the Pakistanis never came back,” Dhanoa said. “The Pakistanis never ever dreamt of bombing an Indian post in retaliation because we had Beyond Visual Range (BVR) missiles on Mirage 2000, MiG 29 and the Su-30 Ks and they did not have any BVR missiles on any of their fighters,” he recalled. “They just kept quiet about it and just didn’t acknowledge that something had happened and later on played it low key when the news did break in the international media! That is what is called deterrence,” he added. Asked whether India should consider procuring two more squadrons of Rafales as it makes operational sense, Dhanoa called it a good idea and said that it will be the “cheapest option” of getting a 4.5 generation fighter into the air force. “We already have infrastructure for two squadrons. We do not need additional infrastructure for the next two squadrons. They will come, in my assessment, at 60 to 70 per cent of the cost of the current ones,” he said. “The cost of research and development for all India-specific enhancements have already been covered. The next two squadrons of Rafales will be the cheapest option of getting a 4.5 generation fighter into the air force,” he added. Dhanoa, who retired as the IAF Chief on September 30 last year, said having two more squadrons of Rafales will give the force a lot of strength. “If you have 72-80 aircraft, it will match whatever F-16s the Pakistanis have got. It will be good for deterrence,” he said adding it will make economic sense. Dhanoa also thanked all the people who stood by the Rafale deal, including the defence minister, the civil servants, the then defence secretary, the director general (acquisition) and many others in the government. “You have to give them full marks, because they stood by it despite many apprehensions. Normally everybody gets scared that this deal may be termed later as a scam and they may be hauled up by the investigation agencies after their retirement, or some other roving inquiry that may happen which may implicate them in the future. These people stood by it; we signed and executed the deal,” he said. Dhanoa said the political leadership also stood their ground and did not dump the deal. “They were going into an election. You could have always opted for a soft option of setting up a committee. Everybody stood their ground. The national leadership, the bureaucracy. That is why you have the aircraft,” he added. Dhanoa also expressed happiness that the first squadron of Rafales will be part of the Number 17 Squadron, also known as ‘Golden Arrows’, based in Ambala. “I am very happy...I was the last Commodore Commandant of 17 squadron. It got number plated in March 2012. It stopped flying in December 2011. Having celebrated our Diamond Jubilee in October 2011. Last year the Squadron has been resurrected and this year aircraft have finally come to the Squadron,” he said. “Golden Arrows have a very rich tradition. The Squadron has fought in all the wars. It participated in the Liberation of Goa, 1965 war, 1971 war, and it fought in Kargil,” he added. Dhanoa commanded the squadron during the Kargil war. “In case, there is fighting in Eastern Ladakh, we will not miss it,” the Air Chief Marshal (Retd.) said in a lighter vein.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rafales-will-provide-india-major-advantage-in-tibet-in-case-of-aerial-combat-ex-iafchief-dhanoa/story-akJzsQ9TfZxQ7aR3OQ3nwL.html
02-08-2020||India||Ram Janmabhoomi land transferred to Ram Lalla, the infant lord ahead of bhumi pujan||Ahead of the Ram temple ‘bhumi pujan’ on August 5, the Ram Janmabhoomi land was transferred to ‘Ram Lalla virajman’ in official records (nuzool) of Ayodhya on Saturday. Ayodhya district magistrate Anuj Jha handed over a certified copy of the land transfer to Champat Rai, general secretary of the Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust. Additional district magistrate, Ayodhya, Gorelal Shukla confirmed the land transfer. The Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court on September 30, 2010 had apportioned one-third of the 2.77 acre then disputed land to Hindus, one-third to Muslims and one-third to Ram Lalla, the deity. It is this 2.77 acre land that the sanctum sanctorum of the Ram temple (on which Babri Masjid once stood) will be constructed.Also Read: 20,000 temples get fresh paint. Ram dhun reverberates as Ayodhya decks up for the big dayThis order of the high court was challenged in Supreme Court. On November 9 last year, the Supreme Court put an end to decades-old Ayodhya title suit by granting the entire 2.77 acre of disputed land in Ayodhya to deity Ram Lalla, who was one of the petitioners in the case. The infant form of Lord Ram- Ram Lalla--was deemed a perpetual minor and a ‘juristic person’ with legal rights for the purpose of the case.Also Read: A video invite for LK Advani, MM Joshi for Ram temple ceremony in AyodhyaThe deity was represented by his “next human friend”, a VHP leader, in the court proceedings in the land title dispute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-janmabhoomi-land-transferred-to-ram-lalla-the-infant-lord-ahead-of-bhumi-pujan/story-0zun3vvl187VDjvt43t3UM.html
02-08-2020||India||Amit Shah admitted to Medanta Hospital in Gurugram after testing Covid-19 positive||Union home minister Amit Shah has been admitted to Medanta Hospital in Haryana’s Gurugram and is believed to be stable, after being diagnosed Covid-19 positive earlier on Sunday afternoon. The Home Minister had tweeted that he is “fine” but was getting hospitalised in keeping with the advice of his doctors.“On displaying initial symptoms of coronavirus, I got the test done and the report came back positive. My health is fine, but I am being admitted to the hospital on the advice of doctors. I request that all of you who have come in contact with me in the last few days, please isolate yourself and get your inquiry done,” Shah tweeted in Hindi.The home minister also requested those who had come in contact with him to isolate themselves and get tested for the viral infection.ALSO READ | Rahul Gandhi, others wish Amit Shah speedy recovery after he tests positive for Covid-19Earlier this week, Shah was present in the last cabinet meeting held on Wednesday. Social distancing was strictly followed along with wearing of masks, officials said. The official indicated that there is a strict protocol in place at the Prime Minister’s residence for the last few months.The home minister has been leading the battle against the coronavirus from the front and stepped in to look into the health crisis in June, when Covid-19 cases started rising exponentially in national capital Delhi. Political leaders, including BJP president J P Nadda, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, DMK chief M K Stalin, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, wished Shah a speedy recovery. In Uttar Pradesh, Kamal Rani Varun, the only woman cabinet minister in the state, died of Covid-19 at a hospital in Lucknow on Sunday. She was 62.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-admitted-to-medanta-hospital-in-gurgaon-after-testing-covid-19-positive/story-WcsaUNmUZRfi8h467ugIPM.html
02-08-2020||India||20,000 temples get fresh paint. Ram dhun reverberates as Ayodhya decks up for the big day||Ayodhya, around 135 km from Uttar Pradesh’s capital of Lucknow, is getting ready for the bhumi pujan or foundation laying ceremony for the Ram temple on August 5. A cleanliness and sanitisation drive is under way in Ayodhya ahead of the event.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation stone of the Ram temple in a grand ceremony, which will be attended by several dignitaries, on Wednesday.The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra, the organiser of the event, is leaving nothing to chance. The temple town situated on the banks of Saryu river is being decked up for the ceremony.All roads leading to Ram Janmabhoomi, the main venue for the bhumi pujan, are sparkling clean.Every nook and corner of the town, including its lanes and by-lanes, are being spruced up with nearly 500 sanitation workers deployed round the clock. Graffiti and images depicting scenes from the Ramayan have come up on main streets of the town. Buildings on main streets across the temple town are being painted yellow.Also Read: Drones, restrictions on outsiders among security protocol ahead of Ram temple event at Ayodhya“Yellow is an auspicious colour. In Hindu tradition, yellow is used in all ceremonies. It symbolises purity and light,” said Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, successor-designate to Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, chairman of the trust.The majestic Naya Ghat on the banks of the Saryu is shimmering in colourful lights.The Hanuman Garhi temple, where Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to offer prayers, is being spruced up as well. The majestic 76 steps of Hanuman Garhi have been cleaned.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to offer prayers at Hanuman Garhi (on August 5). The entire temple is being spruced up,” said Raju Das, a priest at Hanuman Garhi.Also Read: ‘Can’t confirm presence at event’: Uma Bharti Around 3,000 sound systems are playing ‘Ram Dhun’ across Ayodhya. These sound systems will also play Vedic hymns during the bhumi pujan.“Ram Dhun is being played all across Ayodhya to create a divine atmosphere,” added Rishikesh Upadhyay, mayor of Ayodhya.This sound system will also be used by the Ayodhya administration to issue directives to the public in case of any emergency situation.More than a lakh diyas (earthen lamps) will sparkle in Ayodhya for two days from August 4, a day before bhumi pujan. Around 20,000 temples across the pilgrim town have been given a new look for the ceremony. Vedic rituals will be performed in all temples on the bhumi pujan day. Earthen lamps will illuminate all temples.“We have requested everyone to decorate their houses with rangoli, diyas (earthen lamps) and lights to mark bhumi pujan for construction of the Ram temple,” said Ved Prakash Gupta, BJP MLA from Ayodhya.The Mani Ram Das Chhavni Peeth, where trust chairman Mahant Nritya Gopal Das resides, and Karsevakpuram, the nerve centre of the Ram temple movement in the 1990s, are buzzing with activity in Ayodhya ahead of the big day. Both these centres have been spruced up for the bhumi pujan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-000-temples-get-fresh-paint-ram-dhun-reverberates-as-ayodhya-decks-up-for-the-big-day/story-4bLAzM9AgBtf9bRjS9kGmJ.html
02-08-2020||India||Babul Supriyo self-isolates. He met Covid-19 positive Amit Shah a day earlier||Union Minister Babul Supriyo on Sunday said that he had met Home Minister Amit Shah a day earlier and is going into self-isolation as advised by his doctors. The Home Minister tested positive for Covid-19 earlier on Sunday evening.Explaining that he intended to stay away from his family till he got himself tested for the viral infection, the musician turned politician tweeted, “I had met Honble HM Shri @AmitShah ji day before in the evening. I am advised by doctors to confine myself, away from my family members, for the next few days with a test to be done soon. Shall abide with all precautionary measures as per Rules and Protocol.” Babul Supriyo is the Minister of State for Environment, Forest and Climate Change, in the Union Council of Ministers.The Home Minister has also requested those who had come in contact with him over the past few days to isolate themselves and get tested at the earliest.Officials said that Shah was present in the last cabinet meeting. Social distancing, however, was strictly followed along with wearing of masks, they added.ALSO READ | Amit Shah tests coronavirus positive, tweets moving to hospitalThe Home Minister has been leading the battle against the coronavirus from the front and stepped in to look into the health crisis in June, when Covid-19 cases started rising exponentially in national capital Delhi. He tweeted on Sunday that he had contracted the infection. Shah went in for a Covid-19 test after displaying initial symptoms.“On displaying initial symptoms of coronavirus, I got the test done and the report came back positive. My health is fine, but I am being admitted to the hospital on the advice of doctors. I request that all of you who have come in contact with me in the last few days, please isolate yourself and get your inquiry done,” Shah tweeted in Hindi.The Home Minister has been admitted to Medanta hospital in Haryana’s Gurgaon, in the national capital region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babul-supriyo-to-self-isolate-he-met-covid-19-positive-amit-shah-a-day-earlier/story-eqf33L1J31xYrzE1UqL9JJ.html
02-08-2020||India||Rahul Gandhi, others wish Amit Shah speedy recovery after he tests positive for Covid-19||Wishes and prayers for Union home minister Amit Shah poured in after he tweeted on Sunday that he has tested positive for coronavirus and is getting admitted in a hospital. The minister said that his health was fine but was getting hospitalised on his doctors’ advice.Shah requested those who have come in contact with him in the past few days to go in to isolation and get tested for Covid-19. “On getting the initial symptoms of corona, I got the test done and the report came back positive. My health is fine, but I am being admitted to the hospital on the advice of doctors,” tweeted Shah in Hindi.The defence minister of India Rajnath Singh wished speedy recovery to Amit Shah.“Amit ji, your perseverance and willpower has been an example for every challenge. I believe that you will surely overcome coronavirus. I pray for your speedy recovery,” Rajnat Singh tweeted Hindi.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi wished Amit Shah a speedy recovery on Twitter. Wishing Mr Amit Shah a speedy recovery.“My good wishes for your speedy recovery Adarniya Amit Shah ji. With your resolute determination and strong will power you will soon come out of this,” Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted.My good wishes for your speedy recovery Adarniya @AmitShah ji. With your resolute determination and strong will power you will soon come out of this.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kerjiwal took to Twitter to wish Amit Shah after the minister tested positive for Covid-19.I pray for the speedy recovery of Hon'ble Home Minister Shri @AmitShah ji https://t.co/i26dkb6Q1qमाननीय गृहमंत्री श्री @AmitShah जी के कोरोना संक्रमित होने का समाचार प्राप्त हुआ। मैं ईश्वर से उनके शीघ्र स्वास्थ्य लाभ की प्रार्थना करता हूँ।Union minister Babul Supriyo went into isolation soon after Amiti Shah tweeted about testing positive for coronavirus, saying that he had met the home minister.“I had met Honble HM Shri AmitShah ji day before in the evening. I am advised by doctors to confine myself, away from my family members, for the next few days with a test to be done soon. Shall abide with all precautionary measures as per Rules & Protocol Covid-19,” he tweeted. I had met Honble HM Shri @AmitShah ji day before in the evening • I am advised by Doctors to confine myself, away from my family members, for the next few days with a test to be done soon •Shall abide with all precautionary measures as per Rules & Protocol #COVID19 #AmitShah||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-wishes-amit-shah-speedy-recovery-after-he-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-KJn6HiHDVH02wCcpXIFoLJ.html
02-08-2020||India||Vada at Rs 15, coffee at Rs 20 at Cochin airport after PMO intervenes||Tongue-tickling crispy vada and hot pazhampori (banana fritters) will now be available for Rs 15 each at the Cochin International Airport (CIAL) in Kerala, thanks to intervention by the Prime Minister’s office.Earlier, the beverages and snacks were priced at Rs 100. The change came about after a not-so happy customer, Shaji Kodankandathil, shot off a letter to the Prime Minister and others to help end the practice of overcharging at airports.“I was travelling to Delhi in April last year. When I ordered a black tea at the airport, I was asked to part with Rs 100 for a tea bag and boiled water in a paper cup. When asked about this, the shop owner told me they were bidding these shops at exorbitant prices so they are forced to fleece,” said Kodankandathil, alawyer, adding he found the explanation quite outrageous.He said he also found packed snacks with maximum retail price (MRP) tags were also being sold at much higher rates. “Usually at airports people do come at least two-three hours before their flights. So they are forced to pay up exorbitant prices for foods and snacks. Elderly and Haj pilgrims are the worst affected. Even for the MRP items, they are forced to shell out three to four times higher than the actual price,” he said. On his return, he took up the issue with the Airports Authority of India and Cochin airport but he failed to get a satisfactory reply. Then he shot off a letter to the PM and it was acknowledged immediately.“I checked the PM’s portal two days back and saw a letter signed by the senior manager of the airport Joseph Peter, regulating the prices of snacks and beverages based on my complaint. The letter said now tea will be priced at Rs 15, coffee Rs 20 and local snacks like vada, parippu vada and pazhampori for Rs 15 each. It also directed that all packed snacks should be sold at MRP,” he said. When asked about this, the CIAL communications manager PS Jayan said it had reduced prices of beverages and snacks to Rs 30 last year itself and now it will be brought down again. The officer added for good measure that it will be difficult for them to prevail over multinational eating outlets because their rates are universal. “I want all airports to take a leaf out of CIAL and reduce prices of snacks and foods. In many airports user fee is there (CIAL it is not there). Still they fleece poor passengers and all turn a blind eye towards this. I am happy a beginning has been made,” said Kodankandathil, adding he will continue his fight for fair prices for food items at airports across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vada-at-rs-15-coffee-at-rs-20-at-cochin-airport-after-pmo-intervenes/story-8ldDl6laiIQKu5fG8hIQeI.html
02-08-2020||India||Heavy rainfall expected tomorrow in several districts of Kerala: IMD||India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday issued an orange alert for several districts in Kerala, saying that very heavy rainfall is expected tomorrow in Idukki, Kozhikode, Kannur, and Kasargod districts.“Orange alert issued for tomorrow in Idukki, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasargod districts with the prediction of isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall,” said IMD, Kerala.On Saturday, IMD had predicted an increase in rainfall intensity over the Konkan region including parts of Maharashtra during the next four-five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rainfall-expected-tomorrow-in-several-districts-of-kerala-imd/story-u8cBoe4GP861qRia1oBPOI.html
02-08-2020||India||Gehlot writes to PM Modi, urges him to chair meet with CMs for Covid-19 management||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and urged him to hold a video conference with chief ministers regarding Covid-19 management in several states. “The fight against the Covid-19 pandemic has reached a decisive phase. All states with their full strength and resources have tried to stop the spread of Covid-19. At the same time, financial support has also been provided to needy people, who have lost their means of livelihood during this epidemic,” Gehlot wrote in the letter. “In such a difficult and challenging time you had meaningful dialogue with the Chief Ministers of the states through video conferencing in the last few months, which is commendable. Along with the ideals of collaborative federalism, such dialogues help in exchange of knowledge, knowledge of better strategies being adopted in various states and establishing mutual coordination,” he said. Informing about the Rajasthan government’s efforts he said, “I have been closely supervising the management of the Covid-19 epidemic in the state. Till June 17, the total samples collected for tests were 6.37 lakh, which has increased to 15.26 lakh as on August 1.” He said due to the state’s efforts, the rate of infected people which was 2.12% as on June 17 has been limited to 2.79% as on August 1. The recovery rate of these infected people is 77.29% as on August 1 in the state. “We are constantly striving to reduce the mortality rate of those infected with Covid-19. The death rate of people infected with Covid-19 has decreased from 2.31% in June to 1.62% on August 1. The daily testing capacity has been increased from 22,000 to 45,000 on August 1. The number of sample collections has also increased from 13,000 to 28,000 per day,” he said. “The last communication you had with the chief ministers of states was on June 17, the indicators of Covid-19 and the economic scenario of the states have changed a lot due to the long-term lockdown. I request you that in the current circumstances, a video conference should be organized for quick dialogue with the chief ministers regarding the management of the Covid-19 epidemic. I am confident that with mutual support and coordination, we will overcome this challenge,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gehlot-writes-to-pm-modi-urges-him-to-chair-meet-with-cms-for-covid-19-management/story-OQqTUJh5s8G8nUz5eqT2qO.html
02-08-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling case probe widens with six more arrests by NIA||The NIA probe into Kerala gold smuggling case has unearthed involvement of more people leading to six more arrests in the past three days in the sensational matter. NIA also claims to have collected evidence in six raids carried out at places associated with the accused.First two of these new arrests were made on July 30, 2020, when the NIA arrested Jalal AM, a resident of Ernakulam distirct and Said Alavi E from Malappuram district. They were arrested on charges of allegedly conspiring with already arrested accused person Ramees KT and for smuggling gold through diplomatic baggage addressed to the UAE consulate at Thiruvananthapuram.On 31st July, 2020, two more accused, namely Mohammed Shafi and Abdu PT, both residents of Malappuram district, were arrested for playing similar roles in the crime. A day later, on August 1, 2020, NIA arrested Muhammad Ali Ebrahim and Muhammad Ali, both residents of Muvattupuzha, Ernakulam district of Kerala.“Investigation revealed that they were also a part of the conspiracy besides aiding and assisting arrested accused Jalal A M in collecting the smuggled gold from Ramees K T at Thiruvananthapuram and distributing the contraband amongst other conspirators,” an NIA statement said.Also Read: Kerala gold smuggling: Junior foreign minister fasts to raise pitch for CM’s resignationThe investigating agency also claimed that Muhammad Ali, son of Abdul Kader, is a member of the controversial organization Popular Front of India (PFI), suspected of involvement in anti-national activities, and was earlier charge-sheeted by Kerala Police in professor’s palm chopping case but got acquitted after trial in 2015.This case is the first instance of NIA- created to probe anti-terror cases and those concerning national security-- probing a gold smuggling case.Fears have been expressed that this case could be linked to a wider network of terror financing and hawala operations and could also be part of sinister designs to destabilize the Indian economy.Kerala chief minister’s close aide and a top bureaucrat is also being questioned in the case and the opposition has alleged that the chief minister was aware of his former principal secretary’s activities. The NIA also carried out searches at six places associated with the arrested accused on Sunday and confiscated two hard disks, one tablet PC, eight mobile phones, six SIM cards, one digital video recorder and five DVDs besides various documents including bank passbooks, credit and debit cards, travel documents and identity documents of the accused.NIA has arrested ten accused in the case so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-probe-widens-with-six-more-arrests-by-nia/story-cltVkWJWJwXkW7SLvCSK5M.html
02-08-2020||India||Tamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit tests Covid-19 positive, advised home isolation||Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit has tested positive for Covid-19, but advised home isolation since his infection was mild, a city-based private hospital said on Sunday. The 80-year-old Purohit was in self-isolation since July 29 after three people in the Raj Bhavan tested positive for the coronavirus. A bulletin issued by the Kauvery Hospital where the Governor underwent further tests on Sunday said he has been advised home isolation and a medical team would monitor him. Purohit “tested positive for Covid-19,” hospital Executive Director Dr Aravindan Selvaraj said in the bulletin. “He is asymptomatic and clinically stable,” it said, adding the Governor underwent further tests and assessment at the hospital located at Alwarpet area here. “As the infection is mild, he has been advised home isolation and will be monitored by the medical team of Kauvery Hospital,” it added.Purohit had earlier gone on seven-day self-isolation on July 29 based on doctor’s advice after three people in the Raj Bhavan tested positive for coronavirus.Earlier, as many as 84 security and fire services personnel deployed in the Raj Bhavan tested positive for the virus on July 23, but the Governor’s office had then said none of them came into contact with Purohit or senior officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-governor-banwarilal-purohit-tests-covid-19-positive-advised-home-isolation/story-QNAJNBPrEH4WdBePsQl91H.html
02-08-2020||India||TMC leader killed in Bengal’s Bankura, many workers hurt in two other districts||Babar Ali, a Trinamool Congress (TMC) panchayat-level leader, was murdered allegedly by his rivals in the party, in the Beliatore area of Bengal’s Bankura district on Saturday night. Local TMC leaders accused Rahim Mondal, husband of the head of the local panchayat who switched over from the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and said Left supporters had masterminded the violence. Ali, the former head of the panchayat, was hacked to death after he suffered bomb injuries. While police detained five people till Sunday afternoon, Amiya Patra, CPI(M) state secretariat member representing the district, said his party was not involved in any way and the violence was the fallout of internal feud in the TMC. Shyamal Santra, TMC district president said, “Police are probing the violence and the real culprits will surely be rounded up.” In similar violence in South 24 Parganas district, Muhammad Sheikh and Shahrukh Sheikh sustained bullet injuries in a clash between two groups of TMC workers in the Basanti area. Additional superintendent of police Indrajit Basu said raids were being conducted and the injured had been admitted in hospital. There were two incidents of violence in West Midnapore district. Five people were injured when some men hurled bombs at the house of a Bharatiya Janata Party worker in the Mohanpur area while a local TMC leader was attacked in Ghatal. The injuries were not critical and raids were on, said local police at both these places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-leader-killed-in-bengal-s-bankura-many-workers-hurt-in-three-other-districts/story-EZt1gKSdzpKKI6vSukAtFK.html
02-08-2020||India||Home ministry seeks additional 3 months to frame CAA rules||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) has informed a department related standing committee of Parliament that it needs three more months to frame the rules of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), passed by Parliament in December last, officials familiar with the development said. According to the Manual on Parliamentary Work, rules for legislation should be framed within six months of the date of the President’s assent or the standing committee on subordinate legislation should be approached for extension of time. The amended Act aims to grant Indian citizenship to six minorities - Hindus, Sikhs, Jains, Buddhist, Christians and Parsis from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh, who have faced or fled fearing religious persecution.The law, which excludes Muslims, will be applicable to those who entered India before December 2014. A senior officer cited above said that “the additional time has been sought to frame the rules as the ministry was busy in other work for the past several months. The rules will be framed soon.” The manual on Parliamentary Work states that in case the ministries/departments are not able to frame the rules within the prescribed period of six months, “they should seek extension of time from the Committee on Subordinate Legislation stating reasons for such extension” which cannot be more than for a period of three months at a time.The government has claimed that while the rules are being framed, the non-Muslim refugees from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan will have to provide proofs of their religious beliefs while applying for citizenship. The applicants belonging to Hindu, Sikh, Christian, Buddhist, Jain or Parsi faiths will also have to furnish documents to prove that they entered India on or before December 31, 2014, according to officials. After the CAA was passed by Parliament, widespread protests were witnessed in the country. Those opposing the CAA contend that it discriminates on the basis of religion and violates the Constitution. They also allege that the CAA, along with the National Register of Citizens, is intended to target the Muslim community in India.However, home minister Amit Shah had dismissed the allegations and described the protests against the CAA as “mostly political”. He had asserted that no Indian will lose citizenship due to the Act.Lok Sabha had passed the CAA legislation on December 9, 2019 and Rajya Sabha on December 11, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-ministry-seeks-additional-3-months-to-frame-caa-rules/story-eB0j8dlmWvbFBPIqKPIyMJ.html
02-08-2020||India||BSF constable, two others held in Punjab for cross-border smuggling of drugs and weapons||A BSF constable and two others have been arrested in connection with a cross-border smuggling racket of drugs and weapons, the Punjab Police said on Sunday.A .30 bore pistol of Chinese make along with five live cartridges and Rs 24.50 lakh were recovered from the three accused, identified as Border Security Force Constable Rajendra Prashad and two locals, Surmail Singh and Gurjant Singh, Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta said.The Punjab Police is working to nab kingpin Satnam Singh alias Satta, extradited from Muscat, Oman, where he had fled after he was declared a proclaimed offender in two smuggling cases. He used a fake passport and Aadhaar card issued in the name of Gurmeet Singh to escape, Gupta said, adding that the accused had five cases of smuggling registered against him earlier. The BSF constable is a resident of Ganga Nagar district of Rajasthan and was posted at a border outpost at Chhina village in Tarn Taran district.He is the second BSF constable to be arrested recently by the Punjab police in a cross-border smuggling racket. A few days earlier, the police had arrested another BSF constable, Sumit Kumar, posted at Sambha in Jammu and Kashmir, in another similar smuggling case.Acting on a tip-off, a Jalandhar Rural police team had on July 26 apprehended two smugglers, who were travelling in a car from Delhi. The police had recovered 25 gm of heroin from them. On questioning, the duo identified themselves as Surmail Singh and Gurjant Singh.Further investigation led to the recovery of the pistol along with five live rounds. During questioning, the duo also revealed that they were working with a cross-border smuggler, Satnam Singh alias Satta, a resident of Taran Tarn district who was closely linked with Pakistan-based smugglers for smuggling of drugs and weapons from Pakistan. They also disclosed that BSF constable Rajendra Prashad was a part of the smuggling racket. The DGP said that he contacted his counterparts in the BSF and Rajasthan, DGP BSF and DGP Rajasthan, and asked for help from the central agencies, for arresting the BSF constable, who was apprehended by the Punjab Police from his residence in Rawala Mandi, where he was on leave. During questioning, the BSF constable revealed that he had been roped into the drug smuggling racket by Satnam Singh, who promised him money for ignoring the smuggling of arms and narcotics consignment through his border post. He then allowed the gang to bring in a consignment of 17 kg of heroin and two foreign-made pistols in May. This time again, Satnam Singh, in connivance with Rajendra Prashad, Surmail Singh and Gurjant Singh, was to bring in another consignment of heroin and arms from his Pakistan-based handlers. Satnam had allegedly given Rs 5 lakh and a mobile phone to Prashad in advance for receiving this composite consignment.The DGP said out of Rs 24.5 lakh, Rs 15 lakh was recovered from the residence of Satnam Singh, Rs 5 lakh from the BSF constable and Rs 4.5 lakh from Gurjant Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-constable-two-others-held-in-punjab-for-cross-border-smuggling-of-drugs-and-weapons/story-uIAEeGBDt4b6QHN7aQ9flL.html
02-08-2020||India||Covid negative, distressed passengers exempted from institutional quarantine upon arrival in India||The government’s fresh guidelines for international passengers travelling into India have granted exemption from mandatory seven days of institutional quarantine upon arrival to people in situations of distress like death, serious illness, pregnancy or to parents with children under 10-years of age, according to a government notification posted by Air India on Sunday.These people citing the compelling reasons mentioned above will need to undergo 14 days of home quarantine instead, however, they will be eligible for availing this exemption only if they apply 72 hours before boarding the aircraft on the online portal—www.new delhi airport.in, the release clarifies.For Coronavirus Live UpdatesThe new guidelines also allow travelers to escape institutional quarantine provided they submitted a negative RT-PCR test upon arrival, which should not have been conducted more than 96 hours before the scheduled journey.“The test report should be uploaded on the portal for consideration. Each passenger should also submit a declaration with respect to the authenticity of the report and will be liable for criminal prosecution, if found otherwise,” the guidelines state.Also Read: Amit Shah tests coronavirus positive, tweets moving to hospitalAccording to the new notification, all travellers to India need to furnish a self declaration form on the above portal at least 72 hours before departure of their flight along with an undertaking to undergo seven days of paid institutional quarantine at their own cost followed by seven days of home quarantine with self monitoring.The new guidelines, that will come into effect from August 8, also reiterate some other measures in force to prevent the spread of coronavirus during the journey including social distancing and wearing of masks during travel. It says that those who fail to fill the self-declaration form before their travel will be given an opportunity to fill it on board the flight or ship, to be handed to immigration officials upon their arrival at destination. Additionally, they will also be given opportunity to fill the declaration online at the arriving airport/seaport/landport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-negative-and-distressed-passengers-exempted-from-institutional-quarantine-upon-arrival-in-india/story-k5RhzA26CV7yNmpZlPELUM.html
02-08-2020||India||Two-day-old baby dies of Covid-19 in Tripura||A two-day-old baby has died due to Covid-19 in Tripura, becoming the state’s youngest coronavirus fatality, a Health Department official said on Sunday.The baby was born on Thursday at the Agartala Government Medical College (AGMC) and her swab sample was collected as her mother was a coronavirus patient.“The two-day-old girl tested positive for coronavirus and succumbed to the disease at the hospital on Saturday,” the official said.A 62-year-old man also died of the disease on Saturday while undergoing treatment at the hospital, he said.The patient was admitted to the AGMC on July 31 after he suffered a heart attack.With these new fatalities, the toll has risen to 23 in the state, he said.Meanwhile, 253 fresh coronavirus cases pushed the state’s tally to 5,251, the official said.The maximum of 101 new cases were found in West Tripura district, followed by 39 in Khowai, 38 in Gomati, 32 in North Tripura, 19 in Sepahijala, 11 in Dhalai, 10 in South Tripura and 3 in Unakoti.According to the official, returnees from other states have contributed to the spurt in the coronavirus cases in Tripura.The number of active cases in the state now stands at 1,747, while 3,463 people have been cured of the disease.Eighteen patients have migrated to other states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-day-old-baby-dies-of-covid-19-in-tripura/story-450hXhDOjaQOPY94mUvNRI.html
02-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: Bihar police to probe Sushant Singh Rajput’s call records, family of ex-manager and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sushant Singh Rajput’s call records, family of ex-manager on Bihar Police’s probe radarSushant Singh Rajput’s phone records will be tracked and the family of his former manager, Disha Salian, will be questioned in connection with the death of the Bollywood actor, Bihar police have said. Read moreDelhi logs 961 new Covid-19 infections, 15 more deaths take toll past 4,000-markDelhi on Sunday logged 961 new cases of Covid-19 taking the infection count in the national capital to 1,37,677, while the death toll touched 4,004, health department data indicated. Read moreThe Way We Were: Premchand’s lost months in BombayPremchand arrived in Bombay on 31 May 1934. He was 54 years old, married with three children, the country’s most famous living Hindi writer – and a man in dire financial difficulties. Read moreSamsung Galaxy S20 Ultra review: To be or ‘Note’ to beInnovations happen every year in the smartphone space. Sometimes even within months. However, each year there’s always that one smartphone that stays in the limelight and is given as an example whenever people talk about flagships. This year it is the Galaxy S20 Ultra, Samsung’s most powerful mobile device created till date. Read more‘I’m not blaming anyone’: Irfan Pathan opens up on Greg Chappell sagaIt has been over a decade since Greg Chappell left the position as the head coach of India. And yet, his time as the coach is still remembered as one of the most controversial periods in Indian cricket history. Read moreVideo of woman hand feeding a peacock has won people over. WatchThe Internet is filled with videos of peacocks showing their magnificent plumage or graciously dancing around. Those are the videos which often make people go “wow” and leave them amazed too. Read morePM Modi to pray at Hanumangarhi ahead of Ram Temple event: Key detailsPM Modi will visit the Hanumangarhi temple ahead of the foundation laying ceremony of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. The head priest of the temple said that they have been given seven minutes times in which PM Modi will take a tour of the temple and also offer prayers. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-bihar-police-to-probe-sushant-singh-rajput-s-call-records-family-of-ex-manager-and-all-the-latest-news/story-qwTPg6k7juvBIcpY1d03RM.html
02-08-2020||India||Amit Shah tweets he tested positive for coronavirus, hospitalised||Home minister Amit Shah tweeted on Sunday afternoon that he has tested positive for coronavirus, adding that he is “fine” but getting hospitalised as advised by doctors. “On getting the initial symptoms of corona, I got the test done and the report came back positive. My health is fine, but I am being admitted to the hospital on the advice of doctors,” tweeted Shah. WATCH | Covid: Amit Shah found infected, hospitalised on ‘advice of doctors’The home minister also requested those who had come in his contact to isolate themselves and get tested.Officials said that the minister was present in the last cabinet meeting. Social distancing was strictly followed along with wearing of masks, they added. The official underscored that there is a strict protocol at the PM’s residence for last few months.Soon after the news broke, BJP chief JP Nanda tweeted saying he is praying for the minister’s speedy recovery.Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi, West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee and a host of BJP leaders wished the leader a quick recovery. In the lead-up to today, the minister has maintained a busy schedule and has been active on social media. On Saturday, Shah addressed the Indian Council of Cultural Relations (ICCR) online conference on freedom fighter Bal Gangadhar Tilak, marking 100 years since his death on August 1, 1920. The minister also welcomed the first batch of Rafales that arrived in the country this week.On July 24, the BJP’s newly elected Rajya Sabha MPs from Manipur, Leishemba Sanajaoba, called on Shah. On July 21, the minister received a delegation of the National Backward Classes Commission (NCBC) under the under the leadership of Bhagwan Lal Sahni.Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, another big BJP leader, is presently recovering in a hospital after he tested positive for coronavirus.Earlier today, UP cabinet minister for technical education Kamal Rani Varun succumbed to Covid-19 at the Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences in Lucknow.In May, there was a lot of buzz around Shah’s health, at the time the minister took to Twitter to dispel rumours, adding he has been preoccupied with his work and has no ill feelings for those who have been spreading such misinformation. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-tests-coronavirus-positive-tweets-is-getting-admitted-on-doctors-advice/story-c7oHdKw7iBfj5TuawueO3L.html
02-08-2020||India||Pollution in Ganga: NGT directs UP Jal Nigam to complete sewer work expeditiously||The National Green Tribunal has directed UP Jal Nigam to expeditiously complete the work of sewer connectivity to households at Narora town in Bulandshahr district to ensure that no untreated water is discharged into the Ganga.The green panel slammed the Jal Nigam over non-functional sewage treatment plant at Narora and discharge of untreated sewage in a pond adjacent to the river.“UP Jal Nigam must perform its responsibility and cannot take the plea that fault was of the contractor. The work of sewer connectivity to households be completed expeditiously which may be reviewed by the principal secretary, Urban Development, UP,” a bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A K Goel said.It said the Jal Nigam is held liable to pay Rs 5 lakh for their default which may be deposited with the state pollution control board within one month to be spent for restoration of the environment.The NGT was perusing a report filed by an oversight committee headed by former high court judge which said the chief engineer of the Jal Nigam had informed it that the Naraura Project was sanctioned in 2015 and as per the project, it was proposed that treated water shall be discharged into river Ganga.“The sewage treatment plant was installed in 2018 but became operational since February 2. As per the inspection report submitted by UPPCB, the capacity of Naraura STP is of 4 MLD (million litres per day), but current total utilisation is of 2 MLD. Despite having excess capacity, still 5 MLD untreated sewage is being discharged in river Ganga through drains,” the committee said.The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by residents of Nodai Wagar village in Narora town, alleging that the STP unit was discharging untreated wastewater in the Ganga.There was no pipeline for discharging treated effluent, the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pollution-in-ganga-ngt-directs-up-jal-nigam-to-complete-sewer-work-expeditiously/story-gQtwOv3lx9TUGYImDuq9lO.html
02-08-2020||India||World’s highest railway bridge over Chenab river in J-K to be ready by next year||The world’s highest railway bridge over river Chenab in Jammu and Kashmir will be ready by next year, and will connect the Valley with the rest of India by train for the first time by 2022, officials said on Sunday.The bridge, which has a central span of 467 metres, is being built at a height of 359 metres from the bed level. The height of Qutab Minar in Delhi is 72 metres and that of the Eiffel Tower in Paris is 324 metres.  “This is the tallest railway bridge in the world and the maximum designed wind speed for the bridge is 266 kmph,” a senior government official said.The construction work of the bridge was accelerated in the last one year under the direct supervision of the top echelons of the central government, the official said According to the plans, Kashmir will be connected with train by December 2022.The Udhmapur-Katra (25 Km) section, Banihal-Quazigund (18 Km) section and Quazigund-Baramulla (118Km) section have already been commissioned.The last remaining section, the 111 km Katra-Banihal section is currently under execution.It is targeted for completion in December 2022. The 126 km out of 174 km of tunnels on this section has already been completed.There has been a greater push in the last one year for implementation of various projects under the Rs 80,068 crore Prime Minister’s Development Package (PMDP) announced on November 7, 2015, the official said.The package is meant for strengthening socio-economic infrastructure and balanced regional development of Jammu and Kashmir.The programme touches practically every sector and provides for massive investments in basic infrastructure, another official said.After the reorganisation of Jammu and Kashmir in August 2019, the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir was left with 54 projects under the PMDP with an outlay of Rs 58,627 crore.A total of nine projects with an outlay of Rs 21,441 crore were transferred to the UT of Ladakh.   “The work in the PMDP since June 2018 and particularly in the last one year has been the rapid and unprecedented,” the official said.  The expenditure on various projects, which was 27 per cent of the sanctioned cost in June 2018, has shot up to 54 per cent in July 2020.The number of completed projects and substantially completed projects has correspondingly shot up from seven in June 2018 to 17 in July 2020.  Bottlenecks, which were holding up as many as nine projects about two years ago, have been removed.Some of the major PMDP projects which have witnessed considerable progress or have been completed in last one year include the Rambagh flyover in Srinagar, which was opened for traffic after a delay of over five years The IIT Jammu has started functioning from its own campus and over 2 lakh sq ft area was newly created for it.The Srinagar Leh power transmission line and 220 KV Srinagar-Alusteng-Drass-Kargil–Leh power transmission system have also been completed.With this, Ladakh now stands connected to the national grid. This has ensured grid connectivity and reliable quality power supply to the Ladakh region.Ladakh can be supplied power in winter and surplus power can be evacuated from there in summer, reducing reliance on diesel, boosting economy and protecting environment, the official said.Construction work of AIIMS in Jammu has started. Two years ago, the land for the project had not been handed over and the project was stuck up for want of land and other clearances Similarly, the AIIMS at Awantipora (Kashmir) project was stuck for want of land and other clearances. Now, the tender for the AIIMS campus at Awantipora has been floated and is likely to be awarded soon.The semi ring road in Jammu will be completed by next year and all land acquisition and related hurdles have been removed.In this project, 30 per cent of the work has already been completed.The 8.45 km new Banihal tunnel will be opened by next year as 86 per cent of the work completed.Work on major roads like Jammu–Akhnoor Road, Chenani-Sudhmahadev Road has been accelerated A sum of Rs. 881 crore has been earmarked for rebuilding of health institutions  As many as 144 projects have taken up and work on 60 projects completed while work is underway on 80 projects at a fast pace.  Despite having 20,000 MW hydropower potential, Jammu and Kashmir had been able to tap only 3,500 MW in 70 years.In last two years alone, about 3,000 MW capacity projects were revived and put on track. Work on 1,000 MW Pakal Dul and 624 MW Kiru started and two more projects -- 800 MW Ratle and 540 MW Kwar have been put on fast track.Officials said a number of projects have been taken up to prevent floods.The Rs 2,000 crore Jhelum flood recovery project was a key one aimed at increasing the carrying capacity of the river Jhelum and the flood spill channel.Phase-1 of the programme at a cost of Rs 399 crore is already nearing completion.This has resulted in the discharge carrying capacity of Jhelum being increased by 10,000 cusecs.Phase-II of the programme will begin shortly and when completed, it will increase carrying capacity by an additional 15,000 cusecs. Jammu and Kashmir, particularly the Kashmir division witnessed the worst-ever floods in 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-s-highest-railway-bridge-over-chenab-river-in-j-k-to-be-ready-by-next-year/story-4tmzm7bcU9Ul6KRhVPFPjO.html
02-08-2020||India||Intensity of Indian monsoon may decline due to rapid warming of Bay of Bengal, says new study||Warming of Bay of Bengal and the Indian Ocean is likely to weaken the India monsoon further in the near future, which could be accentuated by land mass changes across the country, says a new study by the National Institute of Oceanography at Goa published in a peer-reviewed journal. The study is significant as it reviewed the under sediment cores derived from the Krishna Godavari basin of the Bay of Bengal to understand how the monsoon rainfall pattern has changed in the past 2,000 years. Most of the studies on Indian monsoon pattern are based on temperature and rainfall variations available with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) since 1901 for land and sea. “The intensity of the monsoon depends on the difference in temperatures on the Eurasian landmass and the waters of the Indian Ocean during the spring each year. If the landmass is warm and the sea waters are cool we will have a strong monsoon. But if the land is warm and the sea is also relatively warm, the monsoon will be weak,” Dr Divakar Naidu who led the two-year long study, said. In the study, researchers have modelled the decade-wise variations in the monsoon rains over the subcontinent over the last two thousand years. The study, published in the journal Nature-Scientific Reports has found that decades that reported warm sea surface temperature corresponded with weaker monsoon rains due to bigger variation in land and sea temperature which prevents adequate cloud building. Variation in the Indian monsoon rains has a direct bearing on the livelihoods of more than two billion people on the Indian subcontinent and much of South and South East Asia. Monsoon rains is the main water source for agriculture in half of India with irrigation facilities being limited. “The Indian Ocean is warming and it has a negative effect on the Indian monsoon because (when) the thermal contrast between Indian Ocean and Eurasia decreases and the rainfall decreases accordingly,” he added. This has also been corroborated by weather data available with IMD since 1901, the study said. From the study, he said, it could be easily concluded that the global warming scenarios will have a “negative effect” on the Indian Monsoon on a decadal time scale. A layman may think that warmer air should hold more water and therefore, global warming should be good for Indian monsoon. “It is actually counter intuitive,” Naidu said. But in the case of the Indian monsoon it is not so, he said, adding that warmer earth and sea restrictions movement of clouds to low depression areas to cause rainfall. Sudden, spikes in sea water temperatures also mean lesser continuous longer period rainfall. “That is the reason that India is getting more high intensity shorter period rainfall which leads to higher water run-off,” he said. K J Ramesh, former director-general of IMD, said the study is clear indicator of how climate change was impacting Indian monsoon on the longer term basis. “There is clear evidence that warming of sea surface temperatures have reduced intensity of monsoon rains in several places in India, especially the north-east, where the dip in average annual rainfall is 6-8% since 1980s,” he said. The study was done as part of the project to build models that can project annual monsoon rainfall for future. The researchers studied variations in the monsoon intensity over the past 2,000 years in order to build models that will be able to offer insight into future variations in the monsoon especially with warmer oceans associated with global warming, the study said. “Instrumental records (means rain gauge data) are available only for the last 150 years. In order to improve our forecasting we need to have long term rainfall records. We have reconstructed monsoon variability by using marine sediment cores. We examined the zooplankton trapped in these sediment cores for oxygen isotopes, which in turn would offer insight into the flow of fresh water into the KG-basin. When we plotted this corresponding to the sea surface temperatures we found the strong correlation,” Dr Naidu said. The study covered the time span of the last 2000 years with a time resolution which is the first of its kind monsoon record from the marine side, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/intensity-of-indian-monsoon-may-decline-due-to-rapid-warming-of-bay-of-bengal-says-new-study/story-iq6DO5qRlutt9L0NlXBYrM.html
02-08-2020||India||Venkaiah Naidu associates Ayodhya Ram Temple with Indian culture, secular values||Vice President Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday highlighted a Vedic scholar’s views of Lord Ram being a secular figure and said the August 5 Bhumi Pujan ceremony for building a grand Ram Temple in Ayodhya could lead to a societal spiritual rejuvenation in the country. He added that reading the Ramayana in the right perspective captures the unique Indian vision of Dharma or righteous behaviour.Naidu’s comments defining Lord Rama as an embodiment of Indian culture follow similar views expressed by RSS ideologue Bhaiyyaji Joshi, who described the ground-breaking ceremony in Ayodhya as the beginning of a new era carrying the message of “human welfare” to the world.“Rama’s ideas as told in the Indian texts are secular in origin, their influence on the life and thought of people having been profound over at least two and a half millennia,” Naidu quoted Vedic scholar Arthur Anthony MacDonnell in his post titled “Rebuilding the shrine, Enshrining the values”, on Sunday.Also Read: A video invite for LK Advani, MM Joshi for Ram temple ceremony in AyodhyaAIMIM’s Asaduddin Owaisi had earlier claimed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s participation in the foundation stone-laying ceremony for Ram Temple in Ayodhya will be a violation of his oath as the head of a secular country. Some other leaders had also raised similar objections.Naidu’s post argues that Lord Ram and Ramayana’s teachings have left an indelible influence on the composite Indian culture and the construction of Ram temple represents the Indian vision of righteous behaviour.“Indeed, this is a moment that could lead to a societal spiritual rejuvenation if we can understand the essence of Ramayana and understand it in the right perspective and see it as a tale that captures the unique Indian vision of Dharma or righteous behaviour,” Naidu said in the post.Also Read: Telangana BJP leader invites Asaduddin Owaisi to mega Ram temple eventHe further builds on the theme by talking about Mahatma Gandhi’s usage of “Rama Rajya” to symbolize a state with people-centric democratic governance founded on values of empathy, inclusion, peaceful co-existence and constant quest for a better quality of life. Naidu adds that the story of Lord Rama’s life is about adherence to a set of values imbibed in the Indian culture, such as truth, peace, collaboration, compassion, justice, inclusion, devotion, sacrifice and empathy.“It is this set of values that are at the core of Indian world view,” Naidu said.Yesterday, RSS leader Suresh Bhaiyyaji had said that the movement for building of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya didn’t aim to add one more temple in the list. “It is not completely true to see it only as a centre for religious faith…,” he had said, while insisting that the Ram Temple should be seen as a symbol of Indian culture and national pride instead. Several organisations have appealed for lighting of earthen lamps and decoration of every Indian home on August 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/venkaiah-naidu-associates-ayodhya-ram-temple-with-indian-culture-secular-values/story-cja4491FXGrLTpEQZtg4IL.html
02-08-2020||India||74 IPS transfers in Gujarat; Ahmedabad, Surat get new top cops||In a major reshuffle, the Gujarat government has transferred 74 IPS officers and appointed new police chiefs of Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara.The order was issued late Saturday night, a day after Ahmedabad Police Commissioner Ashish Bhatia was appointed as the state director general of police (DGP).As per the order, Sanjay Srivastava, a 1987-batch IPS officer and DGP-CID (crime and railways), has been appointed as the police commissioner of Ahmedabad.Special Commissioner of Police (crime), Ahmedabad, Ajay Kumar Tomar, a 1989-batch IPS officer, has been made the police commissioner of Surat, replacing R B Brahmbhatt, who has been appointed as the police commissioner of Vadodara.Anupam Singh Gahlaut, a 1997-batch IPS officer, who was serving as Vadodara police commissioner, has been appointed as inspector general of police (IGP-intelligence) in the state capital Gandhinagar.Gahlaut has also been given the additional charge of executive director, Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Limited at Vadodara, replacing K G Bhati, the government said in its notification.Bhati, a 1999-batch IPS officer, who was also the joint commissioner of police (traffic), Vadodara, has been appointed as inspector general of police, Ahmedabad range, replacing J R Mothaliya.Mothaliya, a 2001-batch IPS officer, has been appointed IGP (border range), Bhuj, replacing S G Trivedi.Additional Director General of Police (CID) Shamsher Singh, a 1991-batch IPS officer, has been appointed as additional DGP (technical services and state crime record bureau).Amit Kumar Viswakarma has been appointed as joint commissioner of police (crime), Ahmedabad. The 1998-batch IPS officer was joint commissioner of police, sector-1, Ahmedabad.Viswakarma will also hold the charge of additional DGP (ATS and coastal) and IGP (operation), Ahmedabad.Besides, Secretary (Home) Brajesh Kumar Jha has been appointed as IGP (administration), replacing H G Patel.IGP (Gandhinagar range) M A Chavda has been appointed as JCP (traffic), Ahmedabad, while Gautam Parmar, DIG-CID (crime and railways), has been appointed as additional commissioner of police (sector-2), Ahmedabad.Surat’s Additional Commissioner of Police (traffic and crime) H R Muliyana has been transferred as ACP (sector-2) in the same city.H R Chaudhary, a 2005-batch IPS officer, has been appointed as joint executive director of the Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Limited, Vadodara. He was serving as DIG (armed units), Vadodara.Several deputy commissioners of police and superintendents of police (SPs) of various districts have also been transferred and promoted in the late night reshuffle.SP (Ahmedabad rural) R V Asari, a 2006-batch IPS officer, has been appointed as assistant commissioner of police (sector-1), Ahmedabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/74-ips-transfers-in-gujarat-ahmedabad-surat-get-new-top-cops/story-wF4vZmVwd15xQY37WHDYZO.html
02-08-2020||India||For Mehbooba Mufti’s release, a poke at Centre from Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi||Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and his sister Priyanka on Sunday demanded the release of Jammu and Kashmir’s former chief minister and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti, two days after the government extended her detention under public safety act (PSA) by another three months.“India’s democracy is damaged when GoI illegally detains political leaders. It’s high time Mehbooba Mufti is released,” Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet.As if on cue, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi also accused the central government of shying away from dialogue and of being undemocratic by keeping the leaders under detention. “The BJP government is making the detention of leaders its weapon to shy away from dialogue, the strongest style of democracy. Keeping under house arrest is undemocratic and unconstitutional. She should be released,” she said.On Friday, the Jammu and Kashmir administration extended Mufti’s detention even as it released Peoples Conference chief Sajad Gani Lone in Srinagar, a week ahead of the one-year anniversary of the revocation of the troubled region’s special status and its bifurcation.Mufti, who has been held under the stringent Public Safety Act (PSA), is among 20-odd political leaders in the Valley who continue to remain under detention following parliament’s revocation of J&K’s special status on August 5 last year. Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar, the two former chief ministers, were released on March 13 and March 24, respectively.Earlier, another congress leader P Chidambaram had asked for a collective campaign for the immediate release of Mufti, questioning how she was a threat to public safety.“The extension of the detention of Ms Mehbooba Mufti under PSA is an abuse of law and an assault on the Constitutional rights guaranteed to every citizen,” he said in a series of tweets.“Why should she undertake not to speak against the abrogation of Art 370? Is it not part of the right to free speech? I am one of the counsels appearing in a case in the SC challenging the abrogation of Art 370. If I speak against Art 370 — as I must — is that a threat to public safety?” he said.Mufti’s party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), ran a coalition government in the undivided state with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) until the alliance collapsed in June 2018 that prompted the imposition of Governor’s Rule.Under the PSA, a person can be kept under detention for up to two years without any trial in the court.The former CM was arrested on August 5 from her official residence and lodged at Chesmashahi huts. She was moved to a government building close to the MLA hostel, where other detainees were held, in November. In April, Mufti was shifted to her official residence at Fairview on Gupkar Road.The PDP condemned the extension of Mufti’s detention. ‘It’s high time the BJP realises that we as Kashmiris refuse to be trivialised,” the party said.Nearly all of Kashmir’s mainstream political leaders were detained hours before the central government nullified Article 370 of the Constitution, which accorded special status to the region, and bifurcated the state into two union territories – Jammu and Kashmir with a legislature and Ladakh without one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-mehbooba-mufti-s-release-a-poke-to-centre-from-rahul-and-priyanka-gandhi/story-mX7UphCls6VahkBuC9C98K.html
02-08-2020||India||Covid-19 digital push: Railways moves over 5 lakh files, 12 lakh documents online||In the past four months when the entire country was in various stages of the coronavirus-induced lockdown, the Railways has digitised over 12 lakh documents like letters, bills, office orders, project drawings and more than four lakh files, scrapping their manual handling and reducing not just physical contact between officials but also operational costs. The use of Railways’ e-office has grown manifold since the pandemic hit the country -- the number of e-receipts increased from 4.5 lakhs during March 2019 to March this year, to 16.5 lakhs in April-July this year; the number of e-files increased from 1.3 lakhs to 5.4 lakh during the same periods respectively.The e-office platform provided by RailTel is a cloud enabled software developed by the National Informatics Centre (NIC) and aims to provide reliable, efficient, and effective ways of handling office files and documents. “Due to availability of e-office, majority of file work in Railways can continue smoothly without physical presence in offices which is a boon in a time of crisis like this,” RailTel CMD, Puneet Chawla told PTI.He said it was a big challenge for the team to complete the work during the lockdown phase as resource movement was restricted. “We couldn’t visit the division offices and the implementation work needed to be done remotely and it was very time consuming as well. The crucial part of implementation is the training of officials to handle the platform,” Chawla said. The official said since physical presence of RailTel officials and Railway users was not possible, the entire training was also done remotely using video conferencing and on call support. Training videos were prepared so that users could watch them again and again to get a grip on the e-office usage procedure. As of July 31, there are 1,04,3,32 users in 106 units of Indian Railways of the e-office platform. There are 16,55,748 e-receipts and 5,47,681 files which have been created, according to RailTel data. The work of the remaining 60 workshops has been sanctioned.RailTel also provided Virtual Private Network connections to around 9,500 railway officials for enabling them to process the file works remotely. The system, officials said, promises absolute transparency as anything once written on the file cannot be changed or undone and there is also a monitoring mechanism to check where the files are held up, thus accounting for delays. “Even the big drawings including project drawings are being prepared and being sent for approval to the various departments on the e-platform. This e-drawing approval system has ensured quick approvals of drawings and transparency resulting in faster project implementation,” Chawla said. The Railways’ push to promote contactless communication between its officials has geared momentum through the Covid-19 pandemic, primarily with two things in mind -- to reduce the spread of the disease and also to cut costs. In circulars issued through these months, officials have been asked to rely on video-conferencing for meetings, emails for communication and special applications for procurements and tendering. On Sunday, in a first, the Railways held a virtual retirement function for 2,320 superannuating officials connecting all Zones/Divisions/Production Units which was attended by Railway Minister Piyush Goyal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-digital-push-railways-moves-over-5-lakh-files-12-lakh-documents-online/story-Ut9CKdYYFTSteULGo0J9lJ.html
02-08-2020||India||India reports 55,000 coronavirus cases, Florida faces hurricane||India reported nearly 55,000 new coronavirus cases on Sunday and Japan recorded more than 1,500 for a second day while Florida braced for a hurricane that threatened to hamper anti-disease efforts.A curfew was imposed on Australia’s second-largest city, Melbourne, following a spike in infections.The United States, India and South Africa are struggling to rein in their first wave of infections while South Korea and other countries where the disease abated try to avert a second wave as curbs on travel and trade ease.India’s 54,735 new cases were down from the previous day’s record 57,118 but raised the country’s total to 1.75 million. The month of July accounted for more than 1.1 million of those cases.The major cities of New Delhi and Mumbai might have passed their peaks, said a government expert, Randeep Guleria. Subways, cinemas and other public facilities are closed until Aug. 31.In Japan, the government said all but five of its 1,540 new cases were transmitted domestically. The daily total was close to Friday’s record of 1,579.The spike in Japanese cases, most of them in their 20s and 30s, prompted warnings young people were letting their guard down. Gov. Yuriko Koike of Tokyo, which has about one-third of the new infections, says she might declare an emergency to contain the outbreak.In Florida, authorities were trying to prepare storm shelters while enforcing social distancing as Hurricane Isaias churned toward the heavily populated state. It was due to be near the coast early Sunday.Florida reported 179 deaths on Saturday, raising its total to more than 7,000.The governor warned residents to expect power outages and said they should have a week’s supply of water and food.In Australia, Premier Daniel Andrews of the southern state of Victoria announced a 8 p.m.-to-5 a.m. curfew on Melbourne, a city of 5 million people. Schools statewide are to return to home-based teaching and day care centers were closed.Andrews said there were seven deaths and 671 new cases since Saturday.“If we don’t make these changes, we’re not going to get through this,” Andrews said.Also Sunday, China and South Korea reported more infections but spikes in both countries appeared to be tailing off.China had 49 new confirmed cases, up from the previous day’s 45. Thirty were in Xinjiang in the northwest, where authorities are trying to contain an outbreak focused on the regional capital, Urumqi.Three cases were found in students who returned from Russia to Wuhan, the southern city where the pandemic began in December. Most anti-disease controls were lifted there after the ruling Communist Party declared victory over the disease in March.Hong Kong reported 125 new infections as authorities tried to find the source of its latest outbreak. The Chinese government said a team of seven virus testing experts was sent to the city to help.South Korea reported 30 new cases, raising its total to 14,366 with 301 deaths, but said only eight were acquired in the country.The government warned earlier case numbers would rise as South Koreans came home from the Middle East and other places with outbreaks. Authorities say cases from abroad are less threatening because arrivals are quarantined for two weeks.On Saturday, the leader of a secretive Korean church was arrested in an investigation into whether the group hampered the anti-virus response after thousands of worshippers were infected in February and March.Governments worldwide have reported 684,075 deaths and 17.8 million cases, according to data gathered by Johns Hopkins University.The United States has the world’s biggest number of cases at 4.6 million, or one-quarter of the total, and 154,361 deaths.On Saturday, South Africa reported 10,107 new cases, raising its total to 503,290.That put the country fifth behind the United States, Brazil, Russia and India in total cases, though its population of 58 million is much smaller than theirs.In Europe, the number of new cases reported in Italy dipped below 300 for the first time.In Austria, an employee in the chancellery tested positive for the virus but didn’t work directly with Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, the Austrian Press Agency reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-55-000-coronavirus-cases-florida-faces-hurricane/story-k4OdvUwWsUwb3TLe7Q3NrL.html
02-08-2020||India||‘Will be in Ayodhya but can’t confirm about presence at event’: Uma Bharti after getting Ram temple invite||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Uma Bharti on Sunday said that though she will be in Ayodhya for the groundbreaking ceremony of Ram temple on August 5, it is still not clear if she will be present at the venue of the event.The clarification came in the form of a series of tweets (12 to be exact) in which Bharti recounted the struggles of thousands of kar sevaks who took part in the Ram Janmabhoomi movement and appealed to her supporters to celebrate the event from their homes.“I shared the information yesterday about the invitation I received from the Ram Janmabhoomi Nyas to be in Aydohya from August 4 to 6. I thought it’s important to share this information because people were asking questions in this regard,” Bharti said in her first tweet about the event in Hindi. 1.कल जब मुझे 4 अगस्त को अयोध्या जी पहुंचकर 6 तारीख तक वहां रहने का निर्देश राम जन्मभूमि न्यास की ओर से मिला तो मैंने आप सबसे इसकी जानकारी शेयर की। जानकारी देना इसलिए जरूरी लगा क्योंकि आप सब मुझसे निरंतर इस संबंध में प्रश्न कर रहे थे।She then talked about the “interview offers” she has received, but said she doesn’t want to mention her efforts in a movement “that has been going on for 500 years”. “There were many wars and struggles, it started in 1984 and many kar sevaks were martyred, many families were destroyed. It is because of all this that the momentum was not lost. We have to remember their courage,” the BJP leader said.“It is a matter of pride for me that the temple’s construction will begin in my lifetime. Our honourable Prime Minister will inaugurate the event on behalf of all Indians,” she added.Bharti then turned attention towards the Covid-19 pandemic and said it has been turning into something horrible. “So, even if we are in Ayodhya, it won’t be confirmed till the last hour who will be present at the venue of the groundbreaking ceremony.”“The way rivers merge into ocean, we have merged into PM Modi and his presence at the event will signify our presence,” Bharti said on Twitter. 8.जैसे नदियां समुद्र में समा जाती हैं हम सब @narendramodi जी में समा गए हैं उनकी शिलान्यास स्थल पर उपस्थिति ही हम सबकी उपस्थिति है।Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat and a host of senior RSS and BJP leaders have been invited for the event. The groundbreaking ceremony that marks the beginning of the construction of the Ram temple at Ayodhya.LK Advani and senior leader Murli Manohar Joshi - the two senior leaders who were the face of the Ramjanmabhoomi movement - will attend the event through video conference.A senior BJP functionary not wishing to be quoted said both the leaders are held in reverence, but owing to their advanced age and the ongoing pandemic, it has been “found advisable” to have them join the ceremony online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-be-in-ayodhya-but-can-t-confirm-about-presence-at-event-uma-bharti-after-getting-ram-temple-invite/story-uoIAS0vzqpqIStaP7yxUdJ.html
02-08-2020||India||Drones, restrictions on outsiders among security protocol ahead of Ram temple event at Ayodhya||Police in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya have put in place several security arrangements, including Covid-19 protocols and preventive measures, ahead of the ceremony to lay the foundation stone on August 5 for the construction of the Ram temple, a senior official said on Sunday.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation stone of the Ram temple in a grand ceremony, which will be attended by several dignitaries, on Wednesday.Deepak Kumar, deputy inspector general (DIG) of Ayodhya range, talked about the elaborate security arrangements in the temple town before and during the bhoomi pujan ceremony. “A protocol would be followed for the security of PM Modi during his visit to Ayodhya. A Covid-19 protocol has also been followed. Covid warriors will also be deployed,” Kumar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“We are continuously keeping a watch across the VIP routes via drones. There are no movement restrictions for the people residing in Ayodhya. I urge people not to step outdoors to contain Covid-19. We will not let outsiders enter the city,” he added.The senior police official also said that more than five people will not be allowed to gather at a place but shops can open in the temple town.Police personnel, who have tested negative for the coronavirus disease and are below the age of 45, will be deployed in the Prime Minister’s security detail on the day.“The inner security ring will be handled by the Special Protection Group (SPG) officers. But police personnel, who have tested negative for the infection as well as those kept in reserve in complete isolation, would preferably be deployed closer to the inner security ring of the PM,” Hitesh Chandra Awasthy, UP’s director general of police (DGP), had said on Friday.Police have also planned route diversions and put in barricades at a dozen places in the town to ease traffic movement.The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust, set up in accordance with the Supreme Court verdict, is organising the ceremony. The construction of the Ram temple will begin after the ceremony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drones-restrictions-on-outsiders-among-security-protocol-ahead-of-ayodhya-event/story-s38mI5xYILtfqDqiWLICHJ.html
02-08-2020||India||Delhi logs 961 new Covid-19 infections, 15 more deaths take toll past 4,000-mark||Delhi on Sunday logged 961 new cases of Covid-19 taking the infection count in the national capital to 1,37,677, while the death toll touched 4,004, health department data indicated.At least 15 people succumbed to the viral infection in the last 24 hours, taking the toll past the 4,000 mark. On Sunday, 1,186 coronavirus patients recovered and were discharged from city hospitals. A total of 1,23,317 patients have recovered, migrated or been discharged while the number of active cases in the capital currently stand at 10,356.Delhi has witnessed a sharp decline in the number of coronavirus cases over the last week. The national capital, earlier this week on Monday, recorded 613 new coronavirus cases, the lowest in the last two months. The city’s recovery rate has climbed to 88 per cent, but Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has cautioned people about being complacent and asked them to continue taking all necessary precautions.ALSO READ | Second sero survey in Delhi begins with four districts sampled on Day-1The data of 613 Covid-19 cases was the lowest since May 27 when 1,024 fresh cases were recorded. However, the decline in fresh cases also coincided with lesser number of tests carried out in the capital.A total of 4,289 RT-PCR and 8,441 rapid antigen tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, the health department data showed.Cured Covid-19 patients in India crossed the 11 lakh-mark on Sunday with over 51,000 patients recuperating in a 24-hour span, the highest recorded so far, pushing the recovery rate to 65.44 per cent, the Union health ministry said on Sunday.There are 5,67,730 active cases of the coronavirus infection, which is the “actual caseload” of Covid-19 for the country now and account for 32.43 per cent of the total cases.ALSO READ | India’s Covid-19 tally over 1.75 million; recoveries go beyond 1.14 millionIndia’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 17 lakh mark with 54,736 fresh cases and 853 deaths reported in the last 24 hours.Maharashtra -- the worst affected state from the infection -- has a total of 1,49,214 active cases and 15,316 deaths. A total of 4, 31,719 coronavirus cases have been recorded in the state up to Saturday, according to the state health department.Tamil Nadu has a total of 60,580 active cases and 4,034 deaths.The total number of Covid-19 samples tested up to August 1 in the country is 1,98,21,831 including 4,63,172 samples tested yesterday, said the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-logs-961-new-covid-19-infections-15-more-deaths-take-toll-past-4-000-mark/story-0vk7BsQKsV5SCSS7LbSHHI.html
02-08-2020||India||Covid-19: Hyderabad International Airport receives mass fever screening system||The Hyderabad International Airport on Sunday said it has received a UNICEF-funded Mass Fever Screening System from the Central government which will help enhance the efficacy of the screening process as part of its fight against Covid-19.The new thermal scanner, which will be used by the airport health officials, is a ceiling mounted Mass Fever Screening System, a release from GMR Hyderabad International Airport Limited (GHIAL), the company that operates the city airport said.This system is capable of scanning, detecting and tracking febrile persons with elevated skin temperature. The system automatically adjusts and adapts to the surrounding ambient temperature without any human intervention, it said.With its Intuitive User Interface and Dual-Displays (Day Camera + Infra-Red), it provides easy identification of passengers with elevated temperature, while simplifying operations and minimising handling, it said.The new thermal scanner imparts more control to the Hyderabad Airport Health Organisation, along with the existing thermal scanners at the International Arrivals, the release said.GHIAL CEO Pradeep Panicker said: “We are thankful to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in having this modern equipment installed at the Hyderabad International Airport. With this facility, it makes the task of the health officials who serve at the airport round-the-clock, a little more easy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-hyderabad-international-airport-receives-mass-fever-screening-system/story-k158y62NH73c44qUDnwMXJ.html
02-08-2020||India||Release of water by Nepal inundates 61 villages in Bahraich||Over 60 villages in the Bahraich district here have been inundated following the release of water by Nepal from its three barrages into rivers, a district administration official said on Sunday.The release of water has affected over 1.50 lakh people and damaged 171 houses, he said, adding National Disaster Response Force personnel have been deployed in the area to rescue people.“Following the release of lakhs of cusec of water by Nepal, at least 61 villages in the district have been inundated. The administration is providing relief to the affected people,” Additional District Magistrate Jai Chandra Pandey said.He added that 61 villages located in Kaisarganj, Mahsi and Mihipurva tehsils with a population of over 1.50 lakh have been affected. “The condition is very bad in seven villages. As many as 131 kutcha houses have been damaged. Twenty-three flood posts have been made. Apart from this, one motorboat, 179 boats, one platoon of flood PAC and NDRF have also been pressed into service,” Pandey said.He also said 48 medical teams along with veterinary teams have also been deployed for relief work. Medical facilities, vaccination of animals, tarpaulin sheets and food packets are being distributed, he added.“About 3.15 lakh cusec water was released into rivers from Sharda, Girijapuri and Saryu barrages. The levels of rivers at these places were below the danger mark, but Ghagara was flowing 108 centimetres above the danger mark at Elgin bridge. Along with the barrages, the embankments are also being constantly monitored,” said Executive Engineer (Flood) Shobit Kushwaha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/release-of-water-by-nepal-inundates-61-villages-in-bahraich/story-uvtwBXyODuU6QpW6OMa6WK.html
02-08-2020||India||Assam issues new Covid-19 guidelines, allows inter-district travel on 2 days of week||The Assam government has issued a new set of guidelines, allowing inter-district movement on two days of the week, and hundred per cent office attendance from Monday to Friday.Night curfew from 6 pm to 6 am on all days and total lockdown on weekends, however, will continue to remain in force for now, an order issued on Sunday by Chief Secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna said.Inter-district movement of people is allowed on Monday and Tuesday and no separate permission or approval will be required for travel within the state on these two days, the order, which will come into force on Sunday, 7 pm and continue till August 14, said.All central and state government offices, including banks, insurance companies and Non Banking Financial Companies, shall be allowed to operate with hundred per cent attendance, and point-to-point bus service will be available for the employees.Pregnant women have been told not to attend office.As part of the new guidelines, shopping malls, gymnasiums have been granted permission to operate between Monday and Friday, subject to certain conditions.Restaurants and other hospitality services will also get to run their businesses on these five days, with strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols.Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places will continue to remain shut.Social, political, entertainment, academic and religious functions, sporting events, and other congregations have also been barred.People above the age of 65 years and children below ten years are advised to stay indoors, except for unavoidable medical reasons, the order by chief secretary said.Non-contact sports in open space shall be allowed, provided social distancing norms are not violated, it stated.Wearing of mask is compulsory in public places, in workplaces and during movement in vehicles, and any violation will attract a fine of Rs 1000 for the first offence, it said.Assam has reported 41,726 Covid-19 cases so far, of which 31,442 have recovered and 101 have died. Three persons have migrated out of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-issues-new-covid-19-guidelines-allows-inter-district-travel-on-2-days-of-week/story-qYR8a3Z1d0AsACHVCiRVsO.html
02-08-2020||India||‘People will demand resignation of PM Modi if unemployment crisis not resolved’: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said that the people of India may seek resignation of Prime Minister Narendra Modi if issues such as employment and livelihood are not resolved, adding that people’s can’t survive long on “hopes and assurances”. Criticising the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government over the handling of the economic scenario in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, Raut, in his weekly column in the party mouthpiece Saamana, said that 10 crore people have lost their livelihood and the pandemic has affected 40 crore families.“How long will people spend their days on mere hopes and assurances? In the last 15 years, not a single problem of people has been removed. Prime Minister of Israel [Benjamin] Netanyahu is a friend of Prime Minister Modi. Due to the economic crisis and corona related atrocities, the Israeli people have started demonstrating on the streets everywhere. The people of Israel are demanding the resignation of Prime Minister Netanyahu. The same time can also come in India,” he said in his column Rokhthok.Raut added that the corona crisis has led to 10 crore people getting unemployed and economic leadership is more important than leadership in the battlefield. “Millions are sitting unemployed today. Innumerable claims of inflation, poverty and unemployment have erupted in society. Economic leadership is more important than leadership in the battlefield,” Shiv Sena said. “Nobody is talking about the crisis, employment. It is easy to say crisis gives rise to opportunity. But, nobody knows how people are dealing with the crisis,” the Shiv Sena leader added. Taking a dig at the BJP, he listed the government’s measures to tackle the economic situation which he said include procuring Rafael fighter jets, reciting Hanuman Chalisa daily (BJP MP’s comment), destabilising Rajasthan government, and coming back to power in Maharashtra on its own. “The stoves of 40 crore families have been extinguished. What is the solution to their problems? Bhoomi pujan of Ram temple will be done, BJP needs Rajasthan, it will happen. Rafale aircraft from France also came to Ambala. But how are those who lost jobs in this period coping with the situation? Will the rulers ever tell them?” the Saamana executive editor asked in a sarcastically toned column.The Sena leader said that the “threat” of coronavirus on India is “grave”, and the “measures” taken by the government to “defeat” it includes bringing fighter jets. He wrote that before Rafale, Indian governments have procured other fighter jets like Sukhoi and MiG, but such a “celebration” was never done. “Will Rafale jets with the bomb and missile-carrying capacity be able to destroy the crisis of unemployment and economic challenges?” Raut asked. The Shiv Sena leader added that the economic situation of the country is very bad and said that people will again be ready to become “slaves”. “People will be ready to become slaves. Earlier, the British enslaved Indians and took them to ports such as Fiji, Mauritius Guyana, Suriname, etc. People will be ready to go as slaves now too. If the rules do not acknowledge this, then they can continue to celebrate over Rafael,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-will-demand-resignation-of-pm-modi-if-unemployment-crisis-not-resolved-sanjay-raut/story-C4dt02zSAK5AXpsLKIPcmO.html
02-08-2020||India||Assam allows inter-district travel on 2 days of week; night||The Assam government has issued a new set of guidelines, allowing inter-district movement on two days of the week, and hundred per cent office attendance from Monday to Friday.Night curfew from 6 pm to 6 am on all days and total lockdown on weekends, however, will continue to remain in force for now, an order issued on Sunday by Chief Secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna said.Inter-district movement of people is allowed on Monday and Tuesday and no separate permission or approval will be required for travel within the state on these two days, the order, which will come into force on Sunday, 7 pm and continue till August 14, said.All central and state government offices, including banks, insurance companies and Non Banking Financial Companies, shall be allowed to operate with hundred per cent attendance, and point-to-point bus service will be available for the employees.Pregnant women have been told not to attend office.As part of the new guidelines, shopping malls, gymnasiums have been granted permission to operate between Monday and Friday, subject to certain conditions.Restaurants and other hospitality services will also get to run their businesses on these five days, with strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols.Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places will continue to remain shut.Social, political, entertainment, academic and religious functions, sporting events, and other congregations have also been barred.People above the age of 65 years and children below ten years are advised to stay indoors, except for unavoidable medical reasons, the order by chief secretary said.Non-contact sports in open space shall be allowed, provided social distancing norms are not violated, it stated.Wearing of mask is compulsory in public places, in workplaces and during movement in vehicles, and any violation will attract a fine of Rs 1000 for the first offence, it said.Assam has reported 41,726 Covid-19 cases so far, of which 31,442 have recovered and 101 have died. Three persons have migrated out of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-allows-inter-district-travel-on-2-days-of-week-night/story-2ZogzJU9LlSGY0qbzDEJTL.html
02-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput’s call records, family of ex-manager on Bihar Police’s probe radar||Sushant Singh Rajput’s phone records will be tracked and the family of his former manager, Disha Salian, will be questioned in connection with the death of the Bollywood actor, Bihar police have said.According to news agency ANI, the four-member team from Patna Police, which is in Mumbai to probe Rajput’s death, has said that none of the SIM cards that were being used by the actor was registered under his name.‘’One of them was registered in the name of his friend Siddharth Pithani. We are now tracking the call detail records (CDRs),’’ a member of the team was quoted as saying by the news agency.The 34-year-old actor, who was found dead in his Bandra apartment in June, used at least 50 SIM cards, according to reports.One of the members of the Patna Police team also said that they will question the family of Salian, who died a few days before Rajput.‘’Even after constant attempts to connect with them on phone, we have failed to establish any contact,’’ an official said, according to ANI.The team has recorded the statements of Rajput’s former girlfriend Ankita Lokhande, friend Mahesh Shetty, sister Meetu Singh, Dr Kersi Chawra in Mumbai as well as his cook and sweeper. Some more people will be examined in connection with the case. The team also visited several banks to gather details about transactions from Rajput’s accounts.Also Read: Sushant had no Godfather, says his sister in appeal to PM Modi, wants him to step inRajput’s father, Krishna Kumar Singh, had lodged a complaint against Chakraborty and six others including her family members in Patna last week. The case was registered under various IPC sections including 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement), 380 (theft in dwelling house), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and 306 (abetment of suicide).His father accused that Rhea Chakraborty befriended his son in May 2019 with the intention of furthering her own career and exploiting him. He also alleged that at least Rs 15 crore was withdrawn from his son’s bank account to which Chakraborty and her family members had gained access. He also said that barely a week before Rajput was found dead at his Bandra residence, Chakraborty had visited his house and taken away his laptop, ATM card and other important documents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-s-call-records-family-of-ex-manager-on-bihar-police-s-probe-radar/story-CkfXUjGYyMusPh5cEuPo3M.html
02-08-2020||India||Covid-19 recovery rate rises to 65.44%, case fatality rate drops further to 2.13%||Recoveries among Covid-19 patients in India crossed the 11 lakh-mark on Sunday with over 51,000 patients recuperating in a 24-hour span, the highest recorded so far, pushing the recovery rate to 65.44%, the Union health ministry said on Sunday.There are 5,67,730 active cases of the coronavirus infection, which is the “actual caseload” of Covid-19 for the country presently and account for 32.43 per cent of the total cases, it said.All active cases are under medical supervision either in hospitals or in home isolation.With 51,225 patients cured and discharged in a day, India’s total recoveries have surged to 11,45,629 and exceeded active cases of Covid-19 by 5,77,899 as on date, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 2.13%.“Coordinated implementation of Covid-19 management strategy by the Union and state and UT governments and selfless sacrifice of all frontline healthcare and other workers and Covid-19 warriors across sectors have ensured that the recoveries are continuously on the rise,” the ministry said.“The gap between the recoveries and the active cases has seen a steady rise. On June 10, for the first time, the total number of recovered patients exceeded the active cases with a difference of 1,573, which has increased to 5,77,899 as on today,” it said.The successful and coordination implementation of the effective containment strategy, aggressive testing and standardised clinical management protocols based on a comprehensive standard of care framework, have resulted in a consistent trend of rising recovery rate and progressively reducing case fatality rate (CFR).   “India has one of the lowest case fatality rate at 2.13 pc as compared to the global average,” the ministry said.     India’s Covid-19 tally climbed to 17.50 lakh with 54,735 cases being reported in a day, while the death toll rose to 37,364 with 853 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-recovery-rate-rises-to-65-44-case-fatality-rate-drops-further-to-2-13/story-gZGxwTY7oQaRsupfEXic8H.html
02-08-2020||India||3-yr-old Kerala boy dies after swallowing coin; kin allege govt hospitals refused admission||A three-year-old boy died after he accidentally swallowed a coin at his home near Aluva, with relatives alleging that government hospitals where he was taken to had refused to admit him as he came from a Covid-19 containment zone.Kerala health minister K K Shailaja termed the incident as “very unfortunate” and directed the principal secretary (Health) to submit a report after a thorough enquiry.Stringent action would be taken if any lapses were found, she said in a statement.The boy’s relatives alleged that he was denied treatment as their residence fell in a Covid-19 containment zone at Kadungallur near Aluva.They said the incident occurred on Saturday morning following which the parents took the child to the Aluva government hospital, where an X-ray was done and revealed the presence of the object.However, the hospital authorities allegedly did not admit the childA senior doctor there claimed that the boy was not admitted as there was no paediatric surgeon and so he was referred to the Ernakulam General Hospital.Doctors there examined the child and referred him to the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha,for better medical care, where, too, he was allegedly not admitted.The doctors reportedly advised the parents to give their child fruits, which, they said, would result in the coin passing through his motion.The parents, who belong to a poor family, took the child back to their home in Kadungallur.However his condition worsened by evening and they rushed him to Aluva government hospital, but he died en route, police said.The body would be handed over to the parents after post- mortem, health authorities said.His swab has been collected for Covid-19 test, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-yr-old-kerala-boy-dies-after-swallowing-coin-kin-allege-govt-hospitals-refused-admission/story-oZucheCok8138kQalQcJ7J.html
02-08-2020||India||Tracking the political journey of UP minister Kamal Rani Varun, who died of Covid-19||Uttar Pradesh’s cabinet minister for Technical Education Kamal Rani Varun succumbed to the coronavirus disease on Sunday. She was the first minister in Uttar Pradesh to die after contracting coronavirus. Kamal Rani was 62.On July 18, the minister tested positive for coronavirus and was admitted to the Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Hospital here. She was later shifted to the Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences.Born on May 3, 1958, Kamal Rani was among the 18 members inducted in the council of ministers headed by chief minister Yogi Adityanath on August 21, 2019, the first such reshuffle since the BJP government came to power in March 2017.Kamal Rani was the only woman cabinet minister in UP following Rita Bahuguna Joshi’s resignation after getting elected to the Lok Sabha.She was elected to the 11th Lok Sabha in 1996. In 1998, she was re-elected to Parliament for a second term.Kamal Rani had won from Ghatampur assembly seat in the 2017 assembly election. She secured 48.52 per cent of votes in the election, wresting the sea from Samajwadi Party.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over the minister’s death.In a condolence message issued here on Sunday, Adityanath said, “Kamal Rani Varun died on Sunday at around 9.30 am. She was an experienced and capable leader. She discharged her responsibilities with competence. She was a dedicated public representative, who was always working for the welfare of deprived and oppressed sections of the society.”The chief minister cancelled his visit to Ayodhya scheduled for the day, Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Awasthi said.Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel conveyed condolences to Kamal Rani’s family.“The sudden death of Kamal Rani is shocking. She was very active during her stint as Member of Parliament in the 11th and 12th Lok Sabha. I express my deepest condolences to her family in this time of grief,” Anandiben Patel said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tracking-the-political-journey-of-up-minister-kamal-rani-varun-who-died-of-covid-19/story-m2rfd5RInB7ZyB94DqKcbI.html
02-08-2020||India||BCG vaccine could slow down Covid-19 spread, says research but warns it’s not a ‘magic bullet’||Scientists have found that the Bacillus Calmette-Guerin or BCG slows down the rate of infection and death of the coronavirus disease. The research says that the effect is very prominent in the first 30 days of the BCG vaccination.The research comes as countries race to find a vaccine for Covid-19, which has devastated almost the entire globe.The study, published in one of the journals of non-profit American Association for the Advancement of Science, says that the United States - the worst-affected country by Covid-19 - would not have such a high fatality rate if the government there had instituted mandatory BCG vaccination several decades ago.The findings suggest that BCG vaccination policies can be effective in fight against Covid-19. The BCG vaccine is usually given at the time of the birth of a child to prevent tuberculosis. The research says that the BCG vaccine helps develop immunity against various other infectious diseases, perhaps including Covid-19.The experts analysed daily rate of increase of confirmed cases in 135 countries and deaths in 134 countries in the first 30-day period of each country’s outbreak. It was seen that “mandatory BCG vaccination correlated with a flattening of the curve in the spread of Covid-19”.However, the researchers did not portray the BCG vaccine as “magic bullet” against Covid-19, and said more analysis is needed.There are nearly 100 vaccine candidates for Covid-19 which are at different stages of research and trials across the world. In India, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan announced on Saturday that 16 vaccine candidates are in different stages of development.“The BCG vaccine is undergoing phase 3 trial, Zydus Cadila DNA vaccine is in phase I/II trial and 4 vaccine candidates are in advanced stages of pre-clinical study,” he said.Vardhan said that five good clinical laboratory practice clinical trial sites have been developed and six animal models for vaccine development studies are also ready.The minister also announced the completion of pan-India 1000 genome sequencing of the SARS-CoV-2 virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bcg-vaccine-could-slow-down-covid-19-spread-says-research-but-warns-it-s-not-a-magic-bullet/story-kz8w51afZlOF11wirRHoLK.html
02-08-2020||India||Senior Patna Police official to head team probing Sushant Singh’s death: Report||A superintendent of police from Bihar will lead the four-member team investigating the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, which is already in Mumbai, news agency ANI reported on Sunday.Vinay Tiwari, Patna (Central) superintendent of police, has left for Mumbai, according to the news agency.The team from Patna Police reached Mumbai on July 27 and began its probe after Rajput’s father lodged a complaint under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including those pertaining to abetment of suicide and fraud, against actor Rhea Chakraborty and six others.KK Singh has accused actor Rhea Chakraborty, who was said to have been in a relationship with Rajput, of using his son’s position to promote her own career, trying to drive a wedge between him and his family, getting him fed with medicines for mental illness with the help of conniving doctors and blackmailing him with threats of making his medical history public to tarnish his reputation.Also read: Sushant had no Godfather, says his sister in appeal to Modi, wants him to step inHe also alleged that at least Rs 15 crore was withdrawn from his son’s bank account to which Chakraborty and her family members had gained access. He also said that barely a week before Rajput was found dead at his Bandra residence, Chakraborty had visited his house and taken away his laptop, ATM card and other important documents.Gupteshwar Pandey, Bihar’s director general of police (DGP), said on Saturday that the force was capable enough to investigate the matter as a chorus for a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) grew louder and that a senior official will lead the probe into Rajput’s death.“Why would we ask for a CBI probe? Bihar Police is capable enough of probing the case. If needed, an IPS-rank officer may be sent to Mumbai to lead the investigation,” Pandey had said.Also read| Sushant Singh Rajput’s therapist: ‘He was suffering from depression and hypomania, Rhea Chakraborty his strongest support’Pandey had also said the Patna Police team had recorded the statements of Rajput’s former girlfriend Ankita Lokhande, friend Mahesh Shetty, sister Meetu Singh, Dr Kersi Chawra in Mumbai as well as his cook and sweeper. Some more people will be examined in connection with the alleged suicide, he had said. The team also visited several banks to gather details about transactions from Rajput’s accounts.Pandey said the Bihar Police wants all medico-legal evidence related to the case handed over to it, asserting that it will bring out the truth at the earliest. He said they want the forensic science laboratory reports, inquest report, post-mortem report and relevant CCTV footage in order to facilitate the probe.The Bihar Police also wants details of those who were examined by the Mumbai Police and what they have said in their statements, the police chief said.Also read| From theft to cheating: Sushant Singh Rajput’s father charges against Rhea ChakrabortyPandey has also urged Chakraborty to join the investigation into Rajput’s death being conducted by Patna Police in Mumbai if she has nothing to hide.“She was the one who called for a CBI probe… I don’t know why she wants the Mumbai Police or the Bihar police to investigate the case. If she is innocent, she should come forward and should say it openly that any agency can probe the case,” Pandey told Aaj Tak.“She should say I am here and anyone can ask any question and probe whatever they want to. Why play a game of hide and seek?” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-patna-police-official-to-head-team-probing-sushant-singh-rajput-s-death-case-report/story-Xmm3CYuOf9OGu8zDiFuYfP.html
02-08-2020||India||IMD plans to use artificial intelligence in weather forecasting||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) is planning to use artificial intelligence in weather forecasting, especially for issuing nowcasts, which can help improve 3-6 hours prediction of extreme weather events, its Director General Mrutunjay Mohapatra said on Sunday.He said the use of artificial intelligence and machine learning is not as prevalent as it is in other fields and it is relatively new in the area of weather forecasting. The IMD has invited research groups who can study how artificial intelligence (AI) be used for improving weather forecasting and the Ministry of Earth Sciences is evaluating their proposals, Mohapatra said.He said the IMD is also planning to do collaborative studies on this with other institutions. The IMD uses different tools like radars, satellite imagery, to issue nowcasts, which gives information on extreme weather events occurring in the next 3-6 hours. The IMD issues forecasts for extreme weather events like thunderstorms, dust storms. Unlike cyclones, predictions of thunderstorms, which also bring lightning, squall and heavy rains, are more difficult as the extreme weather events develop and dissipate in a very short period of time.Last month, over 160 people died due to lightning alone in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The IMD wants to better the nowcast predictions through AI and machine learning. “Artificial intelligence helps in understanding past weather models and this can make decision-making faster,” Mohapatra said.The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) of the US announced new strategies this year to expand the agency’s application of four emerging science and technology focus areas -- NOAA Unmanned Systems, artificial intelligence, Omics, and the cloud -- to guide transformative advancements in the quality and timeliness of NOAA science, products and services.Omics is a suite of advanced methods used to analyse material such as DNA, RNA, or proteins. With regards to AI, it said the overarching goal of the NOAA Artificial Intelligence (AI) Strategy is to utilise AI to advance NOAA’s requirements-driven mission priorities. The NOAA said through this, it seeks to reduce the cost of data processing, and provide higher quality and more timely scientific products and services for societal benefits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-plans-to-use-artificial-intelligence-in-weather-forecasting/story-HiQBHdop48z0BHKiBJizpL.html
02-08-2020||India||ICMR plans to set up registry of hospitalised Covid-19 patients to facilitate research, policy making||A registry of hospitalised Covid-19 patients across the country is being mooted to collect real time data which will help improve treatment outcomes, analyse trends in the progression of the pandemic and calibrate response, officials said. The ICMR in collaboration with the health ministry and the AIIMS is planning to set up the National Clinical Registry which will help researchers and policy makers understand effectiveness of investigational therapies, adverse effects taking place and generate evidence for improving the treatment of Covid-19 patients. “The aim is to collect data of the hospitalised COVID-19 patients like clinical and laboratory features, their demographics, comorbidities, treatment outcomes, complications in all age groups among others,” officials said.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here The novel coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2 and the illness it is causing has so many unknown parameters that are a barrier to the proper understanding and management of the disease, they said.“A systematically collected, comprehensive database covering different regions of the country will enable both researchers and policy makers to generate pertinent hypotheses, to inform crucial understanding of COVID 19, to detect trends in the progression of the pandemic and to accordingly calibrate response to the pandemic,” an official said.Fifteen institutions of national repute including the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research (PGIMER) in Chandigarh, AIIMS Delhi, AIIMS Jodhpur, National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS), Bengaluru and Armed Force Medical College in Pune will connect with the hospitals and medical colleges to get them on board.Click here for complete coronavirus coverage These 15 institutions would be the registry sites and would be mentoring around 100 Covid-19 hospitals  which would be called satellite centres from where the data would be collected as part of the exercise. The proposal has been sent for approval to the  Central Ethics Committee on Human Research (CECHR) of the ICMR.  “The data will help improve the clinical management protocols as the repository would help us know which drug is working better in which age group, effectiveness of investigational therapies and adverse effects taking place. The idea is to generate evidence for improving the treatment of COVID-19 patients,” another official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-plans-to-set-up-registry-of-hospitalised-covid-19-patients-to-facilitate-research-policy-making/story-NJCf4UyCVMcensgJTB4HIL.html
02-08-2020||India||Congress chief Sonia Gandhi discharged from hospital, says top doctor||Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, who was admitted to Delhi’s Sir Ganga Ram Hospital on Thursday, was discharged on Sunday afternoon, a senior doctor said.The 73-year-old Gandhi was admitted to the hospital on Thursday evening for what the doctors called “routine tests and investigations”.“Congress President, Mrs Sonia Gandhi who was admitted on 30th July 2020 evening at 7 p.m to Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, has been discharged today at 1 p.m. Her condition at the time of discharge was stable,” Dr DS Rana, the chairperson of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital’s board of management, said.Gandhi had on Thursday held a virtual meeting with her party’s Rajya Sabha lawmakers to discuss the political situation and the impact of the coronavirus pandemic in the country. The meeting was attended by Congress’ top leaders, including former prime minister Manmohan Singh.Gandhi was admitted to the Ganga Ram Hospital in February this year after she had complained of stomach ache.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-chief-sonia-gandhi-discharged-from-hospital-says-top-doctor/story-hfmOKHTZ6wnMHztKo2YRLM.html
02-08-2020||India||A grand temple for Lord Ram’s mother to come up in Chhattisgarh||Even as preparations are in full swing in Uttar Pradesh for the bhoomi pujan (ground-breaking ceremony) of the proposed Ram temple in Ayodhya, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has announced that a grand temple of Mata Kaushalya, Lord Ram’s mother, will be constructed near Raipur. CM Baghel said that the original form of Mata Kaushalya temple will be preserved while beautifying its premises. He said proper facilities will be developed for the devotees visiting the temple. Notably, the Chhattisgarh government is developing important locations on Ram Van Gaman Path as tourist spots and planning to build a temple at Chandkhuri, where Mata Kaushalya was born. The CM claimed that Chhattisgarh is the maternal home of Lord Ram, where the Lord is believed to have spent a significant amount of time while in exile. “The state government is developing Ram Van Gaman Marg as a tourist destination so as to glorify it at national and international-level,” said the CM, adding that the construction work of the temple in Chandkhuri will start in August.  प्रभु श्री राम के ननिहाल चंदखुरी का सौंदर्य अब पौराणिक कथाओं के नगरों जैसा ही आकर्षक होगा।राजधानी रायपुर के निकट स्थित इस गांव के प्राचीन कौशल्या मंदिर के मूल स्वरूप को यथावत रखते हुए, पूरे परिसर के सौंदर्यीकरण की रूपरेखा तैयार कर ली गई है।।।जय सिया राम।। pic.twitter.com/6Rm1cGk48UA blueprint for the same has been prepared, said the CM, tweeting out pictures. He has directed the officials to build a bridge on the pond, well-equipped dharamshalas and toilets. The Chhattisgarh government is developing nine places on Ram Van Gaman Paryatan Paripath, believed to have been traversed by Lord Ram before entering South India. This includes Sitamadi-Harchauka (Koriya), Ramgarh (Ambikapur), Shivrinarayan (Janjgir-Champa), Turturiya (Balodabazar), Chandkhuri (Raipur), Rajim (Gariband), Sihava-Saptrishi Ashram (Dhamtari), Jagdalpur (Bastar), Ramaram (Sukma). These nine proposed destinations have been included in the concept plan worth Rs 137.45 crore prepared by the tourism department for the project. The state government had provisioned Rs 5 crore in the budget of previous year 2019-20 and has provisioned Rs 10 crore in the budget of current fiscal year (2020-21) for Ram Van Gaman Paryatan Paripath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-grand-temple-for-lord-ram-s-mother-to-come-up-in-chhattisgarh/story-0IsEIg1GMlSZZ5RYgBoUeN.html
02-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Junior foreign minister fasts to demand Kerala CM’s resignation over gold smuggling case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kerala gold smuggling: Junior foreign minister fasts to raise pitch for CM’s resignationMinister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan on Sunday started a day-long hunger strike to demand the resignation of Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan over the gold smuggling case in the southern state. Muraleedharan, who belongs to Kerala, is holding the day’s fast at his official residence in New Delhi. Read moreAssam issues fresh unlock guidelines; malls and gyms to open from MondayShopping malls and gymnasiums in Assam will start operations from Monday, according to a fresh set of unlock guidelines released by the state government today. As per an order issued by chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna, the new directives will come into force from 7 pm on August 2 and will remain valid till 7 pm of August 14. Read moreUP govt recommends CBI probe in Kanpur lab technician’s kidnapping and murder caseAfter facing major embarrassment over alleged negligence and delayed action from the police, the Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday recommended probe by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in connection with kidnapping and murder of lab technician Sanjeet Yadav in Kanpur. Read moreWhat US ban on Chinese app TikTok would meanPresident Donald Trump says he wants to take action to ban TikTok, a popular Chinese-owned video app that has been a source of national security and censorship concerns. Read moreHere’s how to be a good friend, spend time together and more this Friendship DayFriends are the families we choose and they’re always around when you need them -- whether it is to share a joke, a piece of gossip, or even to lighten our mood in stressful moments. One can always count on them, and at the same time be grateful for all the love you get from another human being. Read moreAaditya Thackeray tweets images of female pedestrians on traffic light and sign board in Mumbai’s Dadar areaMaharashtra cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray recently took to Twitter to share an image and wrote that it shows “gender equality with a simple idea.” Now, his post has received tons of reactions from tweeple. Read more‘My one-day record is actually good’: Ousted India batsman eyes ODI comebackHe may have become an indispensable part of India’s Test set-up, but as far as limited-overs formats are concerned, some claim Ajinkya Rahane leaves a lot to be desired. Rahane has scored 2962 ODI runs from 90 matches at an average of 35.26 of which 843 have come from batting at No. 4 in 27 matches with an average of 36.65. Read moreWatch: Demonstrators chant ‘Modi, Modi’, praise India in Toronto’s anti-China protests||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-junior-foreign-minister-fasts-to-demand-kerala-cm-s-resignation-over-gold-smuggling-case-and-all-the-latest-news/story-f6kMXAGzOO1GA982PYngLP.html
02-08-2020||India||Assam issues fresh unlock guidelines; malls and gyms to open from Monday||Shopping malls and gymnasiums in Assam will start operations from Monday, according to a fresh set of unlock guidelines released by the state government today.As per an order issued by chief secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna, the new directives will come into force from 7 pm on August 2 and will remain valid till 7 pm of August 14.The fresh guidelines were issued “after due consideration of the Covid situation as it prevails in the state of Assam and taking into consideration latest directives issued by ministry of home affairs on July 29”. All shops, business establishments and offices (barring those exempted) will be allowed to operate on one side of the road on alternate days in Kamrup Metropolitan district and on both sides of roads in other districts between 7 am and 5 pm from Monday to Friday. “Malls and gymnasiums are allowed to operate between Monday and Friday on same side of the street on which other shops are allowed in Kamrup Metropolitan district and both sides in case of other districts,” the order read. Restaurants and hospitality services are allowed to function on all days except Saturday and Sunday with maintenance of Covid-19 protocol and social distancing. Hotels are allowed to operate on all days while maintaining Covid-19 protocol. Inter-district movement of people will be allowed on Mondays and Tuesdays and no separate permission/permit will be required to travel from one district to another on the specified days. All state and central government offices including banks, insurance companies shall operate with 100% attendance except for pregnant women employees. Buses will be provided for easy transportation of employees.Non-contact sports will be allowed in open spaces while maintaining social distancing norms. Like before, cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and all other similar places of public gathering will remain closed. All social, political, sports, academic, entertainment, religious functions and all other large congregations shall remain banned. Movement of individuals will remain strictly prohibited between 6 pm and 6 am from Monday to Friday while no one will be allowed to travel or move around on Saturday and Sunday at any time. People over the age of 65 and children below 10 years are advised to stay indoors except for unavoidable health reasons. Wearing of face masks is compulsory in public places, workplaces and transport and violation would attract a fine of Rs 1000. Assam had recorded 41,726 Covid-19 positive cases till Saturday with 31,442 recoveries and 101 deaths. Kamrup Metropolitan district, which includes Guwahati, alone had accounted for 14,616 of the total cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-issues-fresh-unlock-guidelines-malls-and-gyms-to-open-from-monday/story-2w2Oa80FG0lnypanB56LhJ.html
02-08-2020||India||Telangana BJP leader invites Asaduddin Owaisi to mega Ram temple event||Telangana BJP Leader and Chief Spokesperson Krishna Sagar Rao has invited AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi to participate in the ‘bhoomi poojan’ of the Ram temple in Ayodhya.“The Ayodhya Ram Mandir bhoomi pooja will be performed and Prime Minister Narendra Modi will participate in it and initiate construction of magnificent Ram Mandir. The place of birth of Lord Rama will be celebrated from here on with Bhavya Ram mandir, and the BJP is proud that it is in our term that this realisation of the dream of crores of Hindu’s across the world has become a reality,” Rao said.He said objections being raised by “frivolous groups” like Leftists and AIMIM are “trivial”. “I do not think anybody needs to respond to these kinds of baseless allegations and objections because the constitution of India provides freedom of practising religion for every citizen, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi is no exception to that right,” he said. “I also invite the communist leaders who are objecting and also Asaduddin Owaisi to come and participate in the bhoomi pooja. So that they can exhibit the secular fabric spirit of their own parties and their individual tolerance towards brotherhood,” he added. Also read: MP Cong leaders to hold special prayers before Ram temple’s Bhumi Pujan ceremony “The Constitution of India provides freedom of practising religion for every citizen, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi is no exception to that right. In fact, he has more rights than anybody else, to perform his own religious rights and rituals as a citizen of India,” Rao said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation stone of the Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5.Also read: Ram Temple marks the beginning of a new India, says RSS’ Bhaiyyaji JoshiThe construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya will begin after the ceremony to lay the foundation stone in which chief ministers of several states, ministers from the Union Cabinet and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, among others are also likely to participate.The Supreme Court had on November 9 last year directed the central government to hand over the site at Ayodhya for the construction of a Ram temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-bjp-leader-invites-asaduddin-owaisi-to-attend-ram-temple-event/story-eUolDkHi7SuAs226WU1UFP.html
02-08-2020||India||UP govt recommends CBI probe in Kanpur lab technician’s kidnapping and murder case||After facing major embarrassment over alleged negligence and delayed action from the police, the Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday recommended probe by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in connection with kidnapping and murder of lab technician Sanjeet Yadav in Kanpur.Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Home, Awanish Awasthi, confirmed that the UP government has decided to recommend CBI enquiry in the case. He said the recommendation has been done on the request of Yadav’s family to ensure that they are satisfied with investigation.The state government had earlier suspended 10 policemen, including woman IPS officer Aparna Gupta, who was posted as Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) South, Kanpur, the then Circle Officer Govind Nagar Manoj Gupta, and the then inspector of Barra police station Ranjeet Rai as well as sub-inspector Rajesh Kumar, reportedly for negligence.The government had also deputed Additional Director General (ADG) rank police officer BP Jogdand to conduct an enquiry about the controversy over paying ransom amount to kidnappers reportedly in consultation with the police.Yadav went missing on the evening of June 22. His sister Ruchi had alleged negligence and delayed action by Kanpur Police since beginning of the investigation.She had even alleged that her family arranged Rs 30 lakh after getting ransom call from kidnappers on June 29 and delivered the amount to them as per the instructions from Kanpur Police. The cops had planned to catch the kidnappers if they turned up to collect the money. Ruchi said the police’s plan failed as the kidnappers easily disappeared after collecting the bag.The police later arrested five kidnappers, including four friends of the lab technician but couldn’t recover the ransom amount and find Yadav, who had been murdered by that time. The police claimed that the kidnappers revealed that they had strangled the lab technician to death on the intervening night of June 26 and 27 when he reportedly tried to flee from their captivity and thereafter made the ransom call on June 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-recommends-cbi-probe-in-kanpur-lab-technician-s-kidnapping-and-murder/story-8fu3SS5sqwoHeMR7buXW6O.html
02-08-2020||India||‘High time Mehbooba Mufti is released’: Rahul Gandhi targets Centre||Accusing the Central government of undermining democracy by ‘illegally” detaining political leaders, Congress’ Rahul Gandhi on Sunday pitched for release of Peoples Democratic Party chief Mehbooba Mufti from home detention. Mufti, who has been held under the stringent Public Safety Act (PSA) since the early hours of August 5 last year, is among 20-odd political leaders in the Valley who continue to remain under detention.“India’s democracy is damaged when GOI illegally detains political leaders. It’s high time Mehbooba Mufti is released,” tweeted the Congress leader. India’s democracy is damaged when GOI illegally detains political leaders. It’s high time Mehbooba Mufti is released.The tweet follows the Jammu and Kashmir administration’s decision to extend the detention of former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti by three months even as it released People’s Conference chief Sajad Gani Lone in Srinagar on Friday. “In exercise of powers conferred by section 8 (1) a read with clause a of sub section (1) of section 18 of JKPSA 1978, the government hereby directs that the period of detention of Mehbooba Mufti, D/O Mufti Mohammad Sayeed R/O Bijbhera A/P Nowgam Srinagar be extended for further period of three months and she may be lodged in subsidiary jail Fairview Gupkar Road Srinagar,” read the order issued on Friday. This is the second time that PSA has been extended in Mufti’s case. Under the PSA, a person can be kept under detention for up to two years.‘It’s high time the BJP realises that we as Kashmiris refuse to be trivialised,” the PDP said soon after the leader’s detention was extended.The National Conference, in a tweet, questioned the rationale of holding on to the Public Safety Act, saying the law does not exist anywhere else in the country. “Good to hear that Sajad Lone has been released from illegal house arrest. I hope others under similar illegal detention will also be released without delay,” said Omar Abdullah, who also spent considerable time in detention. The PDP ran a coalition government in the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir with the BJP until the alliance collapsed in June 2018 that prompted the imposition of the Governor’s rule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-time-mehbooba-mufti-is-released-rahul-gandhi-targets-centre/story-UOjUrXX1azvE1VOtnXT7MO.html
02-08-2020||India||Kerala gold smuggling: Junior foreign minister fasts to raise pitch for CM’s resignation||Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan on Sunday started a day-long hunger strike to demand the resignation of Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan over the gold smuggling case in the southern state.Muraleedharan, who belongs to Kerala, is holding the day’s fast at his official residence in New Delhi.“This is not only a gold smuggling case but it is related to India’s security. It is also related to the financing network of terrorist organisations. A thorough probe should be conducted. Kerala CM must resign. This is our demand,” Muralidhar Rao, the BJP’s national general secretary, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The opposition has stepped up pressure on the Vijayan-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) government over the gold smuggling case and asked him to step down taking moral responsibility for the scam.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) began a one-day fast on Saturday and the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) has also announced a series of protests from Wednesday.“The CM is planning to get his way by sacrificing some officials. Everything happened under his nose. Some reports even suggest the proceeds of smuggling were used to fund anti-national activities. He has to own up moral responsibility and resign,” Muraleedharan had said on Saturday.“During one of the recent protests (anti-Citizenship [Amendment] Act, 2019) against the Union government, the CM had sat on a dharna blocking the road in Thiruvananthapuram,” he had said.The gold smuggling case surfaced on July 5 when PS Sarith, a former employee of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate in the state capital of Thiruvananthapuram, was arrested.Sarith was arrested when he had come to receive a consignment that had arrived from Dubai in the name of a consulate official. Later, 30 kilograms of gold was retrieved from the consignment and the case was handed over to the National Investigation Agency (NIA).Swapna Suresh, a senior information technology (I-T) consultant and her friend Sandip Nair, were arrested from their hideout in Bengaluru on June 10. Vijayan’s powerful principal secretary Sivasankar, a senior Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer, has been suspended over his alleged liaison with Suresh.The Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI(M), which is a key constituent of the LDF government, has slammed the Congress and the BJP for joining hands to topple a democratically-elected dispensation.“The CM had recommended a central agency (NIA) probe soon after the case surfaced. Let them go to the NIA and submit all proofs if they have. We are not worried about the ongoing investigation,” Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, the party’s state secretary, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-junior-foreign-minister-holds-fast-as-bjp-raises-pitch-for-cm-s-resignation/story-xD4Kj1HK6SHnTUdjL9lGMN.html
02-08-2020||India||Yogi Adityanath’s Ayodhya visit cancelled after minister Kamal Rani Varun’s death||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s visit to Ayodhya to review preparations for the bhumi pujan ceremony for the construction of the Ram Mandir on Sunday was cancelled after Kamal Rani Varun, a minister in his cabinet, died of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Kamal Rani Varun, 62, had tested positive for Covid-19 on July 18 and she died at a hospital in Lucknow on Sunday due to the viral infection.“The information about the untimely demise of my colleague in the government of Uttar Pradesh, cabinet minister Smt Kamal Rani Varunji, is disturbing. The state lost a devoted public leader today. My condolences to her family. May God grant the departed soul a place in their feet. Om Shanti,” the chief minister tweeted in Hindi.The minister of technical education represented Ghatampur constituency in Kanpur in the state assembly. Her sample was tested at Civil Hospital in Lucknow after she developed symptoms of the viral disease and then was admitted to the PGI Hospital.Adityanath was scheduled to visit Ramjanambhoomi premise, the venue of the bhumi pujan, to take stock of preparations for August 5 ceremony. Adityanath was also scheduled to hold a meeting with district officials and members of the trust to review arrangements for the ceremony. The construction of the Ram temple will begin after the groundbreaking ceremony to lay the foundation stone in which chief ministers of several states, Union ministers and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat will be present among other dignitaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-adityanath-s-ayodhya-visit-cancelled-after-minister-kamal-rani-varun-s-death/story-cpPZ64RRfVfworOYi2PAhL.html
02-08-2020||India||India and China hold crucial disengagement talks, focus on Finger Area||Senior military commanders of India and China are holding a meeting in eastern Ladakh to implement a disengagement plan along the Line of Actual Control or LAC. The meeting is being held in Moldo, on the Chinese side of the LAC.This is the fifth attempt of both the countries to discuss disengagement since the face-off in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on June 15. The talks are expected to focus on the critical Finger Area and the strategic Depsang plains, according to people aware of the developments.The plan is also to discuss reducing tensions aggravated by a significant military build-up on both sides of the contested, they said. The Indian side is working on restore status quo ante (the situation as it existed in early April) along the LAC.A mutual consensus to disengage from all friction areas along the contested LAC was reached during a marathon meeting between senior Indian and Chinese commanders at Moldo in June.The talks that went on for nearly 11 hours were aimed at cooling tensions and thinning the military build-up on both sides of the border.But after initial progress, the disengagement process has virtually come to a halt. While China has claimed that disengagement has been completed at most locations, New Delhi has called on Beijing to work sincerely for complete de-escalation and full restoration of peace along the LAC.Northern Army commander Lieutenant General YK Joshi recently said that disengagement between forward deployed Indian and Chinese soldiers from friction areas along the LAC was a complex and intricate process that required diligent execution. Joshi said disengagement was initiated after four rounds of talks between senior Indian and Chinese military commanders, and it was being verified on the ground to “ensure its veracity and correctness.” De-escalation of the border conflict will begin after complete disengagement.The ground situation remains unchanged in the Ladakh sector where both armies have amassed almost 100,000 soldiers in their forward and depth areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-hold-crucial-disengagement-talks-focus-on-finger-area/story-OWpPfVcKQgGGpdwZRORWRP.html
02-08-2020||India||Nepal to send updated map to India, international community, says minister||Nepal government intends to send its recently revised map to India, Google and international community by the middle of August, a minister has said. The revised map includes Indian territories of Limpiyadhura, Lipulekh and Kalapani. “We will be sending the updated map including Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura to various UN agencies and the international community including India. The process will be completed by the middle of this month,” Padma Aryal, minister for land management, cooperatives and poverty alleviation told ANI.The ministry has asked the department of measurement to print 4,000 copies of the updated version of Nepal’s map in English language and send it to the international community.The department of measurement has printed on 25,000 copies of the latest version of the map, which have been distributed around the nation. Provincial and all other public offices will be given copies free of cost while people can buy it at Nepali Rupees 50. The Nepal government on May 20 had released the revised political and administrative map incorporating the disputed territories of Limpiyadhura, Lipulekh and Kalapani.India has said that Nepal’s unilateral action is “not based on historical facts and evidence.”India also said that the move is contrary to the bilateral understanding to resolve the outstanding boundary issues through diplomatic dialogue and “such artificial enlargement of territorial claims will not be accepted by India”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-to-send-updated-map-to-india-international-community-says-minister/story-qOk4o8O4ofXCK7nBTfKxcL.html
02-08-2020||India||PM Modi to pray in Hanumangarhi ahead of Ayodhya ceremony, priests to offer special mantras against Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s first stop in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya on August 5 will be a shrine dedicated to Lord Hanuman, where he will offer prayers ahead of the grand foundation laying ceremony for the construction of the Ram temple.Mahant Raju Das, the head priest of Hanumangarhi, said they have been allocated seven minutes for Prime Minister’s rituals at the temple, according to news agency ANI.Vedic priests will escort the Prime Minister while reciting mantras to the Hanumangarhi temple where the ceremony will also include prayers for his wellbeing and to reduce the spread of the coronavirus pandemic in the country.“We have been given seven minutes for the whole premises tour of which three minutes have been allocated for prayers. Today, it will be decided which route the Prime Minister would be coming from. The front has 85 stairs and there are 36 at the back,” said Das.“After the Prime Minister’s arrival special mantras will be recited,” Das said about special prayers to be conducted in PM Modi’s presence. The head priest said only four priests are likely to conduct the prayers in the 10th-century temple.“We have to follow social distancing, these are the orders we have received from the Prime Minister’s Office. So, following the norms, no one will be allowed to touch the Prime Minister neither will they offer him ‘prasad’,” he said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation stone of the Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5. Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust is organising the bhumi pujan to start the construction of the temple. The construction of Ram temple will begin after the ceremony to lay the foundation stone in which various political and religious dignitaries, apart from RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, are likely to participate.Senior officials of the Uttar Pradesh government are regularly visiting Ayodhya to review arrangements for PM Modi’s visit. Personnel of the Special Protection Group (SPG), which is in charge of PM’s security, reached Ayodhya on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-pray-in-hanumangarhi-ahead-of-ayodhya-ceremony-priests-to-offer-special-mantras-against-covid-19/story-xBZhgc6ATCgowsosTYy7BP.html
02-08-2020||India||Kamal Rani, minister in Yogi Adityanath cabinet, dies of Covid-19||Uttar Pradesh cabinet minister Kamal Rani, who was undergoing treatment for coronavirus at a Lucknow hospital, died on Sunday morning. She was 62.Kamal Rani, minister of technical education in the state government, was admitted to a Rajdhani Covid hospital on July 18. “The condition of minister deteriorated after infection in lungs. She was put on life support system. Despite the best efforts of doctors she passed away on Sunday,” said Director PGI professor Radha Krishna Dheeman.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has expressed grief over the demise of the minister. The CM, who was set to review today preparations for Ram temple bhoomi pujan ceremony on August 5, has cancelled his Ayodhya visit after the news of the minister’s death. Rani was an MLA from Ghatampur constituency in Kanpur.Rani was also a member of the 11th and 12th Lok Sabha.“Kamal Rani Varun respected public aspirations as a minister. As a minister, she made commendable contribution in efficiently discharging departmental functions,” tweeted UP chief minister’s office.“Her death is an irreparable loss to the society and the government. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, while paying a humble tribute, expressed his deepest condolences to the bereaved family,” read another tweet from the CM’s office.Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who is being treated for Covid-19 in a hospital, tweeted his condolence message for the minister. “Sad news of untimely demise of cabinet minister Kamal Rani ji in Uttar Pradesh government. I pray to God for the peace of the departed soul and the strength of the family to bear this profound sorrow,” tweeted Chouhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-s-kamla-rani-minister-in-yogi-adityanath-cabinet-dies-of-covid-19/story-Qt6mtDn69q2nRNKHXm085L.html
02-08-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally over 1.75 million; recoveries go beyond 1.14 million||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) went past the 1.75 million mark on Sunday, more than 180 days after the country’s first Covid-19 case was reported in Kerala in January end, Union health ministry’s data showed.The country had crossed the 100,000-mark in 110 days after the country’s first Covid-19 case was reported in Kerala on January 30. India’s infection tally had crossed the 1.6 million-mark on July 31, just three days after reporting 1.5 lakh infections. July alone has accounted for about 65.48% of the cases of the viral infection reported in the country so far.Follow latest updates on coronavirus here According to the Union health ministry’s dashboard updated at 8am, the country recorded 54,735 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours taking the tally to 1,750,725. This is the fourth consecutive day that Covid-19 cases have increased by more than 50,000.The death toll increased to 37,364 after 853 people succumbed to the viral disease between Saturday and Sunday morning, it showed.The number of recoveries has surged to 1,145,629 after a record 51,255 patients were cured in the last 24 hours. The recoveries had crossed the million mark on July 30. The gap between active cases at 567,730 and recovered people has now reached to 577,899. Also read: Speed, safety, fairness key for Covid-19 vaccine, says WHO regional directorThe recovery rate of coronavirus disease patients now stands at 65.43%.“… The successful implementation of effective containment strategy, aggressive testing and standardized clinical management protocols based on a comprehensive Standard of Care approach have resulted in a consistent addition of more than 30,000 recoveries/day,” the health ministry had said on Saturday.India’s case fatality rate (CFR) has been continuously reducing from around 3.33% in mid-June to 2.15%, the lowest since the first lockdown was clamped in the last week of March, the health ministry also said.Also read: After 4-month curb, Centre allows export of made-in-India ventilatorsIn the global platform, India continues to register and maintain the lowest Covid-19 mortality rate, it said and asserted that this is a testimony to the focused, coordinated, pre-emptive, graded and evolving “test, track, treat” strategy and efforts of the Centre, states and Union territories.Maharashtra has most of the number of Covid-19 cases in the country’s tally with 422,118 infections, including 14,994 deaths. Tamil Nadu follows with 245,859 Covid-19 cases, which includes 3,935 fatalities. In Delhi, there have been 135,598 cases and 3,963 deaths. Click here for complete coronavirus coverage According to data, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh are new hotspots with the number of coronavirus disease cases on the surge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-over-1-75-million-recoveries-go-beyond-1-14-million/story-UjoIjslQah0nWW9pINwUAL.html
02-08-2020||India||India, China set to hold fifth round of commander-level talks today on LAC disengagement||Senior military commanders of India and China will hold a meeting in eastern Ladakh on Sunday in their fifth attempt to implement a disengagement plan and reducing tensions aggravated by a significant military build-up on both sides of the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), people familiar with the developments said. The meeting between corps commander-ranked officers will take place held at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC. It is expected to begin around 11 am.The talks are expected to focus on the critical Finger Area and the strategic Depsang plains, they said. The Indian side is working on restore status quo ante (the situation as it existed in early April) along the LAC. Northern Army commander Lieutenant General YK Joshi recently said that disengagement between forward deployed Indian and Chinese soldiers from friction areas along the LAC was a complex and intricate process that required diligent execution. India and China lately failed to make a breakthrough in reducing border tensions despite intense negotiations at the military and diplomatic levels, and the disengagement process at some friction points virtually stopped. Also read: How the cold will alter the India-China power equation next month in LadakhJoshi said disengagement was initiated after four rounds of talks between senior Indian and Chinese military commanders, and it was being verified on the ground to “ensure its veracity and correctness.” De-escalation of the border conflict will begin after complete disengagement. The ground situation remains unchanged in the Ladakh sector where both armies have amassed almost 100,000 soldiers in their forward and depth areas. Also read: Talks with China on but no guarantees:, says Rajnath SinghDuring a visit to Ladakh on July 17, defence minister Rajnath Singh indicated that the negotiations to resolve military tensions along the LAC were complex. He said progress in negotiations should help resolve the border dispute but added that he “couldn’t guarantee to what extent the situation will be resolved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-set-to-hold-fifth-round-of-commander-level-talks-today-on-lac-disengagement/story-ObZxq1WttgI8WSmp0TaxLJ.html
02-08-2020||India||India, China to hold commander-level talks today, disengagement in finger area key focus||India and China will hold military-level talks at Moldo to discuss the disengagement along the contested areas of Line of Actual Control (LAC).The Corps Commander-level talks will be held on the Chinese side of the LAC, according to Indian Army. It is likely to start at 11 am.The Indian side will focus on complete disengagement by China in the Finger area.Both the countries have held a series of talks since a face-off in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on June 15. India had lost 20 soldiers in the skirmish, and China never officially announced the number of casualties it suffered.A mutual consensus to disengage from all friction areas along the contested LAC was reached during a marathon meeting between senior Indian and Chinese commanders at Moldo in June.The talks that went on for nearly 11 hours were aimed at cooling tensions and thinning the military build-up on both sides of the border.The meeting was held between the delegations led by Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, and Major General Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region.But after initial progress, the disengagement process has virtually come to a halt. While China has claimed that disengagement has been completed at most locations, New Delhi has called on Beijing to work sincerely for complete de-escalation and full restoration of peace along the LAC.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava acknowledged last week that there has been “some progress” towards disengagement and de-escalation along the LAC, though the process is far from complete.People familiar with developments had said that the Chinese side is yet to deliver on understandings regarding disengagement reached during the July 5 phone conversation of the Special Representatives on the border issue and meetings of corps commanders.Northern Army commander Lieutenant General YK Joshi had recently said that disengagement between forward deployed Indian and Chinese soldiers from friction areas along the contested LAC was a “complex and intricate process” that required “diligent execution”.The Chinese have, meanwhile, have maintained a build-up of close to 40,000 troops with heavy weaponry deployed in front and depth areas.India has made it clear that for the situation to be normalised, the Chinese will have to completely de-escalate and move back troops to their permanent locations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-military-officials-to-meet-today-talks-to-focus-on-complete-disengagement-by-china-in-finger-area/story-w0z2dKKf1mdeXYKCSoN6RL.html
02-08-2020||India||Covid-19: UP govt relaxes weekend curbs, allows opening of sweet, rakhi shops on Sunday due to Raksha Bandhan||The Uttar Pradesh government has allowed opening of sweet shops and those selling rakhis on Sunday. The decision has been taken in view of the Raksha Bandhan festival on Monday.In an official release on Saturday, the UP government said that chief minister Yogi Adityanath has allowed free travel for women on Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) on Rasha Bandhan day.The free bus travel for women is applicable from midnight of August 2 to midnight of August 3, the order said.Instructions have also been given to the police for intensive patrolling on the occasion.Chief minister Yogi further directed the officials to ensure that the protocol for Covid-19, including social distancing norms, should be followed on Raksha Bandhan. He said that no public programmes be organised and the festival be celebrated at home.The state government had ordered closure of markets on Saturdays and Sundays in view of the cleanliness and sanitisation campaigns that are carried out on weekends.The state government had earlier released guidelines for Unlock 3, the third phase of easing of restrictions imposed as part of the coronavirus-induced lockdown. The chief minister had directed officials to maintain utmost caution at all levels to break the chain of Covid-19 infection and ensure strict compliance of Unlock 3 guidelines issued by the central government.At a regular meeting with senior officials, Adityanath stressed on the need for continuous efforts to create awareness about the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-up-govt-relaxes-weekend-curbs-allows-opening-of-sweet-rakhi-shops-on-sunday-due-to-raksha-bandhan/story-ymEXKM6J2Jo3gatLSyFUeP.html
02-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Political parties in Bihar urge EC to postpone state polls due to floods, Covid-19 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bihar political parties urge Election Commission to postpone state polls due to Covid-19, floodsThe political parties in Bihar have requested the postpone the assembly election in the state due to Covid-19 and floods, reported Hindustan Times’ sister publication Hindustan. While the state recorded its biggest spike in Covid-19 cases on Saturday, it has seen close to 5 million affected by the floods. Read moreRhea Chakraborty must come forward, join probe into Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case: Top Bihar police officialBollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty must join the investigation into the death of Sushant Singh Rajput being conducted by Patna Police in Mumbai if she has nothing to hide, Bihar’s top police official has said. Read moreRs 3 lakh crore credit facility will cover professionals, says FMA Rs3 lakh crore emergency credit facility targeted at small enterprises will now be extended to professionals such as doctors and chartered accountants as well to help them tide over the crisis triggered by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Saturday, warning that the timing of a full economic recovery is tough to predict when the pandemic is still to play itself out. Read moreChina sends team to Hong Kong to do widespread coronavirus testingSeven Chinese health officials were due to arrive in Hong Kong on Sunday, the first members of a 60-person team that will carry out widespread testing for Covid-19 in the territory as the global financial hub races to halt a third wave of illness. Read moreIPL 2020: Franchises seek clarity as Governing Council meetsThe IPL Governing Council (GC) will meet virtually on Sunday evening to put in place processes and protocols for staging the Indian Premier League in the UAE. The tournament is planned from September 19 to November 8, although the Indian board is still awaiting permission from the Indian government to hold the event abroad. Read moreAnkita Lokhande on why she didn’t go to Sushant Singh Rajput’s funeral: ‘I knew if I see him like that, I will never be able to forget’Late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s ex-girlfriend, actor Ankita Lokhande, said that she decided not to attend his funeral as she could ‘never forget’ it if she saw him like that. Sushant’s last rites were performed at the Pawan Hans crematorium in Mumbai on June 15, a day after his death by suicide. Read moreFeline gently bonks kitty sibling on the head. What happens next is unexpected. WatchIf you’re someone who avidly watches cat videos, then you may agree with us when we say that our furry feline friends are mysterious beings. It is often tough to guess the reason behind their derpy actions captured in some of the most beloved clips, but that may be what makes them so exciting to watch. Read moreFriendship Day 2020: Wishes, images, quotes and greetings to share with your friendsFriendship Day, is celebrated on the first Sunday of August in India and falls on August 2 this year, it is the day people come together with their friends celebrate each other and the relationship that exists between them. No matter how old or young we are, friends are what keep us going. Read moreWatch| ‘12 lakh jobs’: Govt woos iPhone makers, Samsung, others to ‘make in India’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-political-parties-in-bihar-urge-ec-to-postpone-state-polls-due-to-floods-covid-19-and-all-the-latest-news/story-PMBWYog0SnD39bny315PUM.html
02-08-2020||India||Ayodhya decked up ahead of Aug 5 Ram temple bhoomi pujan, Yogi Adityanath to visit today||Preparations for the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya are in full swing. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath will visit here on Sunday for the second time in a week to take stock of preparations.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation stone of the Ram Temple here on August 5 after which the construction of the temple will commence in Ayodhya. Several dignitaries are expected to participate in the ceremony.Speaking to ANI BJP veteran leader who has been closely associated with Ram Temple Movement Vinay Katiyar told ANI that with the Prime Minister arriving at Ayodhya on August 5 for laying the foundation stone of Ram Temple it is the responsibility of the chief minister of the State that he should oversee the preparations.Preparations for decorating the whole of Ayodhya is also being carried out under the supervision of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath. On Saturday, several areas of Ayodhya were illuminated with diyas (earthen lamps) and colourful lights. Over the last one month all the top officials of the state, including Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya have also visited Ayodhya. Be it the widening of the roads or the other developmental activities in Ayodhya. The picture of the whole city looks like changed now.On Saturday, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Ayodhya, said that Covid-19 protocols have been put in place.Also read: Ram Temple marks the beginning of a new India, says RSS’ Bhaiyyaji Joshi“We have requested everyone to not let more than five people gather at a place. We have also planned route diversions at 12 places to ease traffic movement,” the SSP said.A local resident of Ayodhya Ramesh told ANI that commencement of work for the Ram temple was a proud moment for them. “This is a historic moment for us and govt is doing wonderful work for all-round development of this city,” he said.The Supreme Court, on November 9 last year had directed the Central government to hand over the site at Ayodhya for the construction of the Ram Temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayodhya-decked-up-ahead-of-aug-5-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan-yogi-adityanath-to-visit-today/story-cMOZUiiplPvIyTetCGT92N.html
02-08-2020||India||Techie from Chennai claims Chandrayaan 2 rover intact, uses Nasa images to show it moved a few metres||A techie from Chennai has claimed that the rover onboard Chandrayaan 2, the Indian Space Research Organisation’s (Isro) moon mission, is present on the lunar surface and has even moved a few metres.The Chandrayaan 2 was India’s second mission to the moon which was sent to the space last year. It had a lander Vikram and a rover named Pragyan, which translates to wisdom in Sanskrit.The techie Shanmuga Subramanian has posted a series of images on Twitter which he claims show Pragyan is intact and “has rolled out few metres from the skeleton Vikram lander whose payloads got disintegrated due to rough landing”. Chandrayaan2's Pragyan "ROVER" intact on Moon's surface & has rolled out few metres from the skeleton Vikram lander whose payloads got disintegrated due to rough landing | More details in below tweets @isro #Chandrayaan2 #VikramLander #PragyanRover (1/4) pic.twitter.com/iKSHntsK1fSubramanian had earlier identified Vikram’s debris using Nasa’s images. And he has used the US space agency’s images this time too to back his claim.“1.Debris I found was of Langumir probe from the Vikram lander. 2. Debris NASA found might be from other payloads, antenna, retro braking engines, solar panels on side etc. 3. Rover has rolled out from lander & has actually travelled few metres from the surface,” he said in one of his tweets. 1.Debris I found was of Langumir probe from the Vikram lander2. Debris NASA found might be from other payloads, antenna, retro braking engines, solar panels on side etc.,3. Rover has rolled out from lander & has actually travelled few metres from the surface(2/4)Subramanian said that it was difficult to detect the rover because it is present on the South Pole of the moon, which is “not always well lit”. And that is the reason, the techie says, it was not detected in Nasa flyby on November 11.He further tweeted: “Update: It seems the commands were sent to lander blindly for days & there is a distinct possibility that lander could have received commands and relayed it to the rover.. but lander was not able to communicate it back to the earth.”Scientists lost contact with the Vikram lander less than two minutes before it was supposed to make a soft landing on the lunar surface.Vikram lander was trying to make history by making India the first country to “soft land” on the South Pole of the moon. Scientists believe there could be water ice on the moon’s South Pole.Pragyan was expected to examine the surface of the moon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/techie-from-chennai-claims-chandrayaan-2-rover-intact-uses-nasa-images-to-show-it-moved-a-few-metres/story-mmXpLIDgwHcZcyrkrHfZ3M.html
02-08-2020||India||Come forward, Bihar top cop tells Rhea Chakraborty on Sushant Singh Rajput probe||Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty must join the investigation into the death of Sushant Singh Rajput being conducted by Patna Police in Mumbai if she has nothing to hide, Bihar’s top police official has said.A four-member team of the Patna Police is in Mumbai to probe Rajput’s death after the actor’s father lodged a complaint under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including those pertaining to abetment of suicide, cheating and fraud, against Chakraborty and six others.The team reached Mumbai on July 27 and began its probe. Also Watch | Rhea Chakraborty under ‘our watch’, say Bihar cops on Sushant death caseGupteshwar Pandey, Bihar’s director general of police, said in an interview to a Hindi television news channel on Saturday that Chakraborty must have the courage to face any investigator.Also read: Sushant had no Godfather, says his sister in appeal to Modi, wants him to step in“She was the one who called for a CBI probe… I don’t know why she wants the Mumbai Police or the Bihar police to investigate the case. If she is innocent, she should come forward and should say it openly that any agency can probe the case,” Pandey told Aaj Tak.“She should say I am here and anyone can ask any question and probe whatever they want to. Why play a game of hide and seek?” he asked.Pandey said they are not accusing anyone and the probe into Rajput’s death shouldn’t be turned into a Maharashtra versus Bihar battle amid reports that the police team from Patna is not being helped by the force in Mumbai.Also read: Rhea Chakraborty booked by ED as politics heats up in Sushant Singh Rajput death case“I am saying a simple thing that one should look at the sentiments of the country’s people. People say that he was a vibrant, enthusiastic and successful young man. They feel there is some kind of mystery if a man who had money and fame hangs himself,” he said.“That mystery must be probed and truth must come out. Why should anyone have any problem with that? Bihar Police have registered an FIR and started a probe,” he added.The top official said they are not out to frame or let anyone off and that they do not have any personal enmity with her without naming Chakraborty.Also read| From theft to cheating: Sushant Singh Rajput’s father charges against Rhea ChakrabortyThe Patna Police team, he said, is using every channel to get in touch with Chakraborty.“We have been saying they should come forward. If there is no evidence we wouldn’t arrest them but the day we have the evidence we wouldn’t let anyone off—director, producer, a billionaire, a big businessman,” he added.“It is our moral responsibility to tell the people of the country what’s the truth and not make it any more mysterious. It’s a big responsibility we have to bear. Mumbai Police also have that responsibility,” he added.The DGP said they don’t have any document or evidence related to the case except the FIR lodged by Rajput’s father. Pandey said Bihar police want the forensic science laboratory reports, inquest report, post-mortem report and relevant CCTV footage in order to facilitate the probe.They also want details of those who were examined by Mumbai Police and what they have said in their statements, the top police official said.“We don’t want to arrest just anyone and don’t want to be called a hero by maligning anyone. The people of Bihar and this country just want to know why has this case become so mysterious,” he said.Also read| Ankita Lokhande writes cryptic post after Sushant Singh Rajput’s family files FIR against Rhea Chakraborty: ‘Truth wins’Pandey had said earlier that the Bihar police is capable enough to investigate the matter and it was for the family of the actor to demand a CBI probe. “We do not and should not demand CBI enquiry. Bihar Police is capable of doing the investigation in the case. A senior IPS officer would be sent to Mumbai for assisting the four-member team,” he said.Chakraborty has moved the Supreme Court, seeking the transfer of the FIR filed in Patna to Mumbai. The top court will hear her plea on August 5. Both Bihar and Maharashtra governments have already filed caveats in the Supreme Court that they should be heard before any order is passed on Chakraborty’s plea.Sushant Singh Rajput was found dead in his apartment in Mumbai’s Bandra on June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rhea-chakraborty-must-come-forward-join-probe-into-sushant-singh-rajput-s-death-case-top-bihar-police-official/story-W7LTiRA5cCCnQE2o08GTYN.html
02-08-2020||India||Ambulance out of reach, pregnant woman carried across river in makeshift basket||A pregnant woman from Kadnai village of Surguja was carried on a makeshift basket through a river, as the ambulance could not reach the village due to lack of proper road connectivity.The woman was later taken to the nearby government hospital.In a video, four men were seen carrying the women seated in a basket strung on a long lathi that is lifted on the shoulders of two men while crossing the heavily flowing river. “It is not a matter of not having good health facilities. There are a few remote villages where people find it difficult to commute during rainy days,” said Sanjay Kumar Jha, Collector, Surguja.  #WATCH: A pregnant woman from Kadnai village of Surguja was carried on a makeshift basket through a river, as ambulance couldn't reach the village due to lack of proper road connectivity. The woman was later taken to the nearby govt hospital. #Chhattisgarh (1/8) pic.twitter.com/eenlZaWLOJThe collector said that for places like this the administration is planning to use small cars to minimise the hardship of the people.“For such remote places, we are planning to use small cars to reach people. It will not be possible to reach residences of the people via cars but we will strive to reach as near their residences as possible to help the people in need,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ambulance-out-of-reach-pregnant-woman-carried-across-river-in-makeshift-basket/story-unvVo4NofyPOs2SVX9SdiO.html
02-08-2020||India||107 new cases push Indore’s Covid-19 tally to 7,555||With 107 new Covid-19 positive cases reported on Saturday, Indore has recorded 7,555 Covid-19 cases so far. According to the official data, three deaths have been reported here, taking the total deaths to 315. Total 1,671 samples were tested in Indore on Saturday while 71 patients were discharged in the district. India reported 57,117 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday taking the country’s coronavirus case count to 16,95,988.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/107-new-cases-push-indore-s-covid-19-tally-to-7-555/story-1lS5K4EJDwn8hpFirDQ4NJ.html
02-08-2020||India||Rs 3 lakh crore credit facility will cover professionals, says FM||A Rs3 lakh crore emergency credit facility targeted at small enterprises will now be extended to professionals such as doctors and chartered accountants as well to help them tide over the crisis triggered by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Saturday, warning that the timing of a full economic recovery is tough to predict when the pandemic is still to play itself out. The government estimates that around Rs1 lakh crore of the facility would be used by the professionals. Also read: GST collection fell 14% to Rs 87,422 crore in July: Govt“Some pockets are still under containment... decided by states, which is the right thing as states are better placed to judge [the ground situation]. We appreciate that,” Sitharaman said at an interaction with media in North Block. “But there are disruptions in the value-chain which is not just confined to raw materials. It also involves manpower [movement] and outsourcing of services. Hence,it is difficult to do an assessment [of a full economic recovery].”She said migrant workers who had left the cities for their homes in the hinterland after the lockdown was enforced on March 25 to curb the spread of the disease were returning to work in one positive development for the economy. “Some of them [workers] have approached their employers... One-two industrial groups have made arrangements to bring them back,” she said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is getting regular feedback on the economic situation and the government is keeping all options open to facilitate a faster economic recovery, Sitharaman said. Even so, the government is cautious about overstating the green shoots of a recovery visible in the economy, she added.Sitharaman said the Rs3 lakh crore emergency working capital loan scheme meant for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) had attracted significant response and its scope has been expanded at the request of industry so that more units and individual professionals can get financial support as well.“After consultations with stakeholders and taking into account the remaining headroom under the scheme, it is decided to include individual loans for business purposes within its ambit,” she said. The scope of the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) has also been expanded in line with the revised definition of MSMEs and the cap on funding under the scheme doubled from Rs5 crore to Rs10 crore.Also read: Govt to come out with strategic sectors list soon: Nirmala SitharamanThis is the latest in a string of stimulus measures announced by the Modi government to cushion the impact of the coronavirus disease pandemic, which struck at a time when a slowdown in householding spending and corporate investment had already become a drag on economic growth, which decelerated to 4.2% in fiscal 2019-20, the slowest pace in 11 years.It follows precipitous growth contractions reported by the US and European countries after the pandemic closed shops, factories and restaurants, signalling a period of recession. The US economy posted a second-quarter contraction of 9.5%, the worst figure on record. Europe as a whole saw GDP fall by 12.1% in the Eurozone and 11.9% across the bloc. Most economists expect India’s economy to shrink by at least 5% this financial year. India’s gross domestic product numbers for the April-June quarter are expected at the end of August; for two of those months, the country was under a hard lockdown, and that is expected to have taken its toll on Asia’s third largest economy.ECLGS is one of the key components of the Rs20 lakh crore economic stimulus package under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-Reliant India Initiative) launched in mid-May, which offered additional working capital finance of 20% of the outstanding credit as of February 29, 2020 in the form of a term loan to units with up to Rs25 crore outstanding and revenue of up to Rs100 crore.Explaining the amended eligibility criteria Debashish Panda, secretary in the department of financial services (DFS) said, “It is decided to increase the upper ceiling of loan outstanding from Rs25 crore to Rs50 crore, and to increase the annual turnover ceiling from Rs100 crore to Rs250 crore in line with the new definition of MSME.”The Cabinet on June 1 raised the upper limit of turnover for a MSME to Rs250 crore.As of July 29, over Rs1.36 lakh crore had been sanctioned and Rs87,227 crore disbursed under ECLGS, Panda said. “We expect some headroom of about Rs1 lakh crore under the scheme that could be used by individual professionals. For example, a doctor can avail this facility to purchase diagnostic equipments, etc,” he said.CA Vijay Kumar Gupta, former Central Council Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), said the move to extend the emergency credit benefit to professionals was positive.“But the government should take more measures to boost demand. Unless there is demand for goods and services, businesses would not take loans. They will take loans only if they are sure of their ability to repay,” he added.Sitharaman said the process of government stake sales in Air India and Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) was underway, and she was confident of meeting the government’s target of raising Rs2.1 lakh crore in disinvestment proceeds during fiscal 2020-21.In May, the government announced an elaborate disinvestment strategy along with the Rs20 lakh crore stimulus package. The strategy aims at capping the number of public sector companies in strategic sectors at four. It proposed to eventually disinvest state-owned firms in the non-strategic segments. Sitharaman said the Cabinet will soon decide which public sector units would come in the strategic sectors. In order to define the strategic sector, the government will soon announce a new public sector enterprises policy, government officials said, requesting anonymity. To provide relief to the industry, the government is in talks with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on various matters, Sitharaman said. Industry has been demanding a one-time loan restructuring; private banks are not in favour of extending loan moratoriums any further, out of concern that even borrowers capable of paying back loans may be dissuaded from doing so in case of an extension. RBI’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) is scheduled to meet next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-3-lakh-crore-credit-facility-will-cover-professionals-says-fm/story-ygHusWXx0IxpVztj3xMXrI.html
02-08-2020||India||Will welcome back rebels if party brass forgives them, says Gehlot||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said on Saturday that he would welcome back former deputy chief minister Sachin pilot and other dissident Congress legislators if the party’s high command forgave them. “If the high command forgives them (dissident MLAs), I will hug them. I have no prestige point,” Gehlot said while talking to media outside a Jaisalmer hotel, where the MLAs loyal to him were shifted ahead of the assembly session from August 14. The fissures in the state Congress leadership came to the fore when Pilot and 18 other MLAs rebelled against the Gehlot government in July. The chief minister has accused Pilot of trying to topple the government and alleged that he did nothing substantial as the Rajasthan Congress president in a seven-year tenure. Gehlot, however, has now said that he would do as the party’s brass decides. “The party has given me so much. I have been on many posts -- three times chief minister, state party chief… What all I am doing is to serve people. Whatever the high command decides, I have no objections to it,” the 69-year-old leader said. Stating that the democracy in the country was “under threat”, Gehlot said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was playing a “big game of horse trading”. He urged Prime Minister Nraendra Modi to stop all attempts to topple his elected government. “We have no quarrel with anyone. In a democracy, fights happen over ideology, policies and programmes and not for toppling a government. Modi should get stopped whatever is going on in Rajasthan,” he said. Gehlot said Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat should resign on moral grounds, stating that his involvement in a “conspiracy” to topple the Rajasthan government was now known. Shekhawat’s name was linked to the audio tapes, purportedly of conversations detailing the plot to topple the Gehlot government. The Union minister has denied it was his voice on the audio clips and said he was ready to face any investigation. State BJP chief Satish Poonia rejected Gehlot’s charges and asked him to focuss on his party instead of attacking the BJP. “If they had the numbers [number of MLAs needed to prove majority], this situation would not have arisen and the MLAs would not have been confined to a hotel. They have lost the mandate mentally,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-welcome-back-rebels-if-party-brass-forgives-them-says-gehlot/story-klt0tbLx010CGmZvSYA3lL.html
02-08-2020||India||As science gains ground, fewer students opting for MBA, engineering||An engineering degree followed by an MBA is often been seen as the most successful career trajectory in India. This belief might be losing ground, shows an HT analysis of a National Statistical Office (NSO) report on education which was released in July. In fact, general courses such as humanities, sciences and commerce are now becoming more popular, a trend experts attribute to a growing gap between the skills professional degrees impart and what is needed in the job market. The NSO released the findings of its 2017-18 survey on Social Consumption of Education in India last month. A comparison with a similar report from 2014 shows that management and engineering courses have seen the biggest proportionate fall in their share of students. For management, this has almost halved, while engineering has suffered a 22% decline. Science courses have registered the biggest increase during this period. Overall, general courses have seen a 6.3 percentage point increase between 2014 and 2017-18, while the share of students going to professional courses has declined by the same amount. To be sure, engineering is the most popular professional course in India. According to the report, the share of students pursuing engineering courses is equal to the all other professional courses put together. The report lists these as: medicine, agriculture, law, management, education, chartered accountancy, IT and computer courses and courses from vocational training institutes.Also read: New Education Policy emphasises on making ‘job creators’ instead of ‘job seekers’, says PM Modi The fall in share of engineering students should not be very surprising given the problems engineering colleges including the IITs have been facing. In December 2019, minister of education Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank told the Lok Sabha that 128 engineering colleges in India closed down between 2016-17 and 2018-19. Even the IITs have been facing the problem of vacant seats. According to a written parliament answer on July 27, 2017, 3 IIT seats were vacant in 2014, 50 in 2015, 96 in 2016, and 121 in 2017. In 2018 too, 121 of 10,988 seats remained vacant, according to another parliament answer on April 5, 2018. The answer also stated that the then Ministry of Human Resources Development (MHRD) has advised all centrally funded technical institutions “to review seats in each discipline based on employment opportunities, national requirements, available infrastructure and scope for future”. “New Courses and Disciplines may be introduced only after carrying out market opportunity analysis,” the reply added. No IIT seats were vacant in 2019 as a consequence of these efforts, according to a PTI report last year.Also read: How innovators see the future of the world | AnalysisStatistics from the NSO report support these anecdotal findings. Both government and private unaided institutions suffered a fall in share of engineering students between 2014 and 2017-18. To be sure, more than half of engineering students still study in private unaided institutions. What explains the fall in popularity of engineering, India’s most popular professional course? A class-wise analysis offers useful insights here. While the share of students pursuing engineering has fallen across income groups, the fall is higher among those who are neither the richest nor the poorest. This can be seen from a quintile-wise analysis of students according to monthly per capita consumption expenditure (MPCE) classes. The share of students belonging to the bottom and top 20% pursuing engineering has fallen by 9% between 2014 and 2017-18. For the rest of the MPCE classes this is more than 20%.  Supply of engineering graduates getting ahead of demand, wage premium shifting in the market in favour of workers traditionally thought to be less skilled, and employers gradually recognising that a degree is not an indicator of the skills needed for the job could be reasons behind this shift, said Manish Sabharwal, chairman, Teamlease Services. “Wages in the past were a lazy filter for skills, but the fastest growing segment in the Indian market is sales, customer service, and logistics. Engineers who join there don’t feel that they get the wage premium there that they feel they should. But why should companies pay them higher wages if they don’t have the skills that they are looking for?” he said. This is the last of a two-part data journalism series on inequalities, aspirations and ongoing changes in India’s education landscape. The first part looked at role of inequalities in access to education in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-science-gains-ground-fewer-students-opting-for-mba-engineering/story-Qf7uhGQrhyZduVEqvvNZtJ.html
02-08-2020||India||Chinese firms, mobile apps blocked, India could next target university tie-ups||India’s education ministry has decided to review in the coming week, the setting up of local chapters of the Confucius Institutes in association with seven local colleges and universities after security agencies alerted it to the growing Chinese influence in higher education in India. The ministry also plans to review 54 Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) signed between prestigious educational institutions including IITs, BHU, JNU and NITs and Chinese institutions. It has already issued a notification to the Ministry of External Affairs and the University Grants Commission.The Confucius Institutes are directly funded by Ministry of Education of People’s Republic of China with the ostensible aim to promote Chinese language and Culture. But they have come in for criticism all around the world, including the US and the UK for helping spread Chinese propaganda. Most recently, according to a BBC report of September 2019, Australia launched an investigation of “whether the agreements between universities and the institute have broken anti foreign-interference laws”. Also Read: China moves PLA battalion across India’s Lipulekh Pass. It’s a signalAround the same time, several universities around the world shut down programmes operated by the institute, that report added. Ranking members of the Chinese Communist Party Politburo Standing Committee have been quoted saying that Confucius Institutes are part of the overseas propaganda to project Beijing’s soft power. The decision to review the Confucius Institutes and the MoUs comes at a time when the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has been amassing more than 50,000 troops, tanks, missiles and artillery guns in occupied Aksai Chin, in an open display of aggression against India along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh. The PLA has even spread the deployment to the middle sector in Uttarakhand and the eastern sector in Arunachal Pradesh.Also Read: Army won’t take eyes off Ladakh, preps to shop for Siachen-like gear for troopsAccording to high ranking officials in the government, the Confucius Institutes in India to be reviewed are at: the University of Mumbai; Vellore Institute of Technology; Lovely Professional University, Jalandhar; . O P Jindal Global University, Sonepat; School of Chinese Language, Kolkata; Bharathiar University, Coimbatore; and KR Mangalam University, Gurugram. The officials, who asked not to be named ahead of the review said Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University also has an MoU with Hanban (the Confucius Institute’s HQ) though it hasn’t set up a centre. Also Read: Security agencies red-flag Chinese fronts in education, not just power and telecomThe MoU was signed between JNU and Peking University around 2005 during the-then Chinese premier’s visit to India. The institute was never set up since there some disagreements over constitution of the board . Since the MoU was signed for five years, it lapsed. Chinese officials wanted to revive it later but the university did not show much interest,” said sinologist BR Deepak, chairperson at JNU’s Centre for Chinese and South East Asian Studies, who was an associate professor at the varsity when the MoU was signed. The education ministry called the review after security agencies made a presentation before Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba on July 15 to red-flag Chinese penetration in the Indian telecommunication sector and higher education. The meeting was attended by the senior-most secretaries to Government of India. It was in this meeting that the decision to review Beijing’s presence in the two highly sensitive sectors was taken. It isn’t clear what the government will decide after the review but HT learns that the education ministry will question the universities, colleges and institutions whether they took permission from it (until recently, the ministry of HRD) or the ministry of external affairs before signing the MoUs with Chinese universities or Hanban. Interestingly, this isn’t the first time the education ministry is acting along these lines. On October 1, 2019, the University Grants Commission (UGC) issued a circular asking universities to get approvals from the central government before offering courses in association with any Chinese institutions. The University of Mumbai maintained that the circular was not valid for existing institutes.“The (Confucius) Institute first started eight years ago with a grant that came from the Chinese government of about Rs 90 lakh. Ever since there’s been no additional grants but we have managed to keep the institute up and running by increasing courses,” said Vibha Surana, director of the Confucius Institute at the university. She added that learning Mandarin “has opened many job prospects for students in the past.” The Confucius Institute was established in 2013 at the University of Mumbai following an MoU with Hanban in the same year. It was set up as an apex Chinese institution providing standard international certification and assuring quality Chinese language teaching.There was no response to queries seeking comment from KR Mangalam University and Lovely Professional University. HT couldn’t immediately reach the other universities and colleges that have partnered to set up Confucius Institutes. Among the other MoUs reviewed by the ministry will be those involving the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) and the National Institutes of Technology (NITs) with top Chinese technical institutions for research, student and faculty exchange, and language courses. These institutions account for around 30 of the 54 MoUs. According to a central government document accessed by HT, the list of 54 MoUs that will be reviewed this week at a high-level committee are:IIT Kharagpur - (1) Tianjin University, (2) Henan Polytechnic University [HPU], (3) Chang Gung UniversityIIT Bombay - (1) Central University of Finance and Economics, (2) Tongji UniversityIIT Madras - (1) Beijing Jiaotong University, (2) Huazhong University of Sciences and Technology, (3) Shanghai International Studies University, (4) Dalian UniversityIIT Delhi - (1) Chang’an University, (2) City University Of Hong Kong Hiksar Peoples & Republic of China, (3) China Jiliang University, (4) Nanyang Normal UniversityIIT Guwahati - (1) Hunan University, (2) Shantou University, (3) Soochow University, (4) University of Macau, (5) Yunnan UniversityIIT Gandhinagar - (1) Confucius Institute Headquarters [HANBAN]IIT Roorkee - (1) The Center for Monsoon System Research of the Institute of Atmospheric Physics at Chinese Academy of Sciences, (2) East China Normal University [ECNU]IIT Bhubaneswar - (1) Engineering Centre of Materials, Manufacturing, School of Materials Science & Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong - University, China [during state visit of President of India to China]NIT Durgapur - (1) Tianjin Polytechnic University, (2) Hohai University, (3) Integrated Risk Governance Project, Future Earth Program [hereafter IRGP/FE], Beijing Normal University, (4) Southwest University for Nationalities [SWUN], Chengdu, (5) Beijing Normal University, (6) School of Materials Science and Engineering, Jiangsu University, (7) Hunan University, Changsha, HunanNIT Surathkal - (1) Institute of Radio Frequency and optoelectronics Integrated Circuits plus State Key Lab of Bioelectronics, Southeast UniversityNIT Warangal - (1) Chang’an UniversityIISER Kolkata - (1) Hubei University, (2) Changshu Institute of TechnologyIISC Bangalore - (1) China University of GeosciencesJawaharlal Nehru University - (1) Tsinghua University, (2) Beijing Normal University, (3) Shandong University, Jinan, (4) Guiyang University, Guiyang, Guizhou, (5) Tongren University, Tongren, Guizhou, (6) Guizhou Minzu University, (7) Sichuan University of People’s Republic of China, (8) Jinan University, (9) Yunnan Academy of Social Sciences/ the Chinese [Kunming] Academy of South and Southeast Asian Studies, (10) Yunnan Minzu University, (11) Shenzhen University, Guangdong, (12) Renmin University of China, BeijingManipur University - (1) Yunnan Open UniversityCentral University of Punjab - (1) Kunming Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming, (2) Xishuangbanna Tropical Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xishuangbanna, YunnanBanaras Hindu University - (1) Soochow University, School of Law, Taipei, Taiwan, Republic of China (2)Beijing Language and Culture University, (3) Beijing Foreign Studies University, (4) North China University of Water Resources & Electric Power, (5) Dali University||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-confucius-institutes-face-heat-over-propaganda/story-AZCHG9fp66KxXnHCF56JeO.html
02-08-2020||India||Rs 3L-cr credit facility will cover professionals: FM||A Rs 3 lakh crore emergency credit facility targeted at small enterprises will now be extended to professionals such as doctors and chartered accountants as well to help them tide over the crisis triggered by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Saturday, warning that the timing of a full economic recovery is tough to predict when the pandemic is still to play itself out. The government estimates that around Rs 1 lakh crore of the facility would be used by the professionals. “Some pockets are still under containment... decided by states, which is the right thing as states are better placed to judge [the ground situation]. We appreciate that,” Sitharaman said at an interaction with media in North Block. “But there are disruptions in the value-chain which is not just confined to raw materials. It also involves manpower [movement] and outsourcing of services. Hence,it is difficult to do an assessment [of a full economic recovery].”She said migrant workers who had left the cities for their homes in the hinterland after the lockdown was enforced on March 25 to curb the spread of the disease were returning to work in one positive development for the economy. “Some of them [workers] have approached their employers... One-two industrial groups have made arrangements to bring them back,” she said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is getting regular feedback on the economic situation and the government is keeping all options open to facilitate a faster economic recovery, Sitharaman said. Even so, the government is cautious about overstating the green shoots of a recovery visible in the economy, she added.Sitharaman said the ~3 lakh crore emergency working capital loan scheme meant for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) had attracted significant response and its scope has been expanded at the request of industry so that more units and individual professionals can get financial support as well.“After consultations with stakeholders and taking into account the remaining headroom under the scheme, it is decided to include individual loans for business purposes within its ambit,” she said. The scope of the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) has also been expanded in line with the revised definition of MSMEs and the cap on funding under the scheme doubled from Rs 5 crore to Rs 10 crore.This is the latest in a string of stimulus measures announced by the Modi government to cushion the impact of the coronavirus disease pandemic, which struck at a time when a slowdown in householding spending and corporate investment had already become a drag on economic growth, which decelerated to 4.2% in fiscal 2019-20, the slowest pace in 11 years.It follows precipitous growth contractions reported by the US and European countries after the pandemic closed shops, factories and restaurants, signalling a period of recession. The US economy posted a second-quarter contraction of 9.5%, the worst figure on record. Europe as a whole saw GDP fall by 12.1% in the Eurozone and 11.9% across the bloc. Most economists expect India’s economy to shrink by at least 5% this financial year. India’s gross domestic product numbers for the April-June quarter are expected at the end of August; for two of those months, the country was under a hard lockdown, and that is expected to have taken its toll on Asia’s third largest economy.ECLGS is one of the key components of the Rs 20 lakh crore economic stimulus package under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (Self-Reliant India Initiative) launched in mid-May, which offered additional working capital finance of 20% of the outstanding credit as of February 29, 2020 in the form of a term loan to units with up to Rs 25 crore outstanding and revenue of up to Rs 100 crore.Explaining the amended eligibility criteria Debashish Panda, secretary in the department of financial services (DFS) said, “It is decided to increase the upper ceiling of loan outstanding from Rs 25 crore to Rs 50 crore, and to increase the annual turnover ceiling from Rs 100 crore to Rs 250 crore in line with the new definition of MSME.” The Cabinet on June 1 raised the upper limit of turnover for a MSME to Rs 250 crore.As of July 29, over Rs 1.36 lakh crore had been sanctioned and Rs 87,227 crore disbursed under ECLGS, Panda said. “We expect some headroom of about Rs 1 lakh crore under the scheme that could be used by individual professionals. For example, a doctor can avail this facility to purchase diagnostic equipments, etc,” he said.CA Vijay Kumar Gupta, former Central Council Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), said the move to extend the emergency credit benefit to professionals was positive.“But the government should take more measures to boost demand. Unless there is demand for goods and services, businesses would not take loans. They will take loans only if they are sure of their ability to repay,” he added.Sitharaman said the process of government stake sales in Air India and Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) was underway, and she was confident of meeting the government’s target of raising Rs 2.1 lakh crore in disinvestment proceeds during fiscal 2020-21.In May, the government announced an elaborate disinvestment strategy along with the Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package. The strategy aims at capping the number of public sector companies in strategic sectors at four. It proposed to eventually disinvest state-owned firms in the non-strategic segments. Sitharaman said the Cabinet will soon decide which public sector units would come in the strategic sectors. In order to define the strategic sector, the government will soon announce a new public sector enterprises policy, government officials said, requesting anonymity. To provide relief to the industry, the government is in talks with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on various matters, Sitharaman said. Industry has been demanding a one-time loan restructuring; private banks are not in favour of extending loan moratoriums any further, out of concern that even borrowers capable of paying back loans may be dissuaded from doing so in case of an extension. RBI’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) is scheduled to meet next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-3l-cr-credit-facility-will-cover-professionals-fm/story-7WRDbdWTu0tTk2lFtwh2qO.html
02-08-2020||India||Speed, safety, fairness key for Covid-19 vaccine: WHO regional director||“Vaccine Nationalism” must not stop equitable access to a vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) when it is eventually discovered, international experts said at an Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) conference on novel ideas in science and the ethics of vaccines against the pandemic.India, with its vaccine manufacturing capability, would play an important role in access to a vaccine once it becomes available, US infectious disease expert Dr Antony Fauci said at the event via video conferencing on July 30. Dr Peter Piot, director of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, stressed the need to make vaccines both accessible and acceptable to the people.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageDr Poonam Khetralpal Singh, the World Health Organisation’s regional director for South-East Asia, said in an interview with Anonna Dutt that governments, health agencies and civil society must work together to ensure those who need it the most get vaccinated on a priority basis, irrespective of their nationality, where they live, their education levels, socioeconomic status, or gender. Edited excerpts from the interview:When do you expect the first vaccines to become available?Traditionally, it takes 5-10 years, or even more, for a new vaccine to be developed before it can be used in humans. In view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic which continues to affect millions of people across the world, timelines are being compressed to develop a vaccine as soon as possible.However, despite accelerated efforts, the availability of Covid-19 vaccines would depend on the outcome of the clinical trials that are still ongoing. While several candidate vaccines are progressing to phase III trials, it cannot be said with certainty what the results of these trials will be – both in terms of efficacy and safety – and by when we will have a vaccine available for use in populations. Once developed, a Covid-19 vaccine must be considered a global public good that can be accessed by all of humanity. To facilitate this, WHO co-launched the Access to Covid-19 Tools Accelerator and is supporting the COVAX Facility. Both these mechanisms are expected to help low- and middle-income countries gain rapid and equitable access to safe and effective vaccines. Speed, safety and fairness are the key principles that should be followed for Covid-19 vaccines.Will the speed of vaccine development affect acceptability? How can governments increase confidence in the vaccine?The confidence and trust in the vaccine will be critical. The speed of vaccine development should not affect community trust if scientific and ethical standards are applied during the development of the vaccine. To increase confidence in the potential vaccines, a transparent communication strategy on the efficacy and safety of the vaccine will be critical and addressing concerns of the people will be equally important. We have lessons from other vaccination programmes such as polio that can be emulated for increasing acceptability of Covid-19 vaccines.The regulatory authorities will play an important role in building confidence in the vaccine by ensuring that licensure of these vaccines is based on standards laid down for this purpose. Post-marketing surveillance to assess any adverse events would further help enhance confidence in the vaccine.In the past – as with the H1N1 pandemic – the vaccine was available after the peak of the disease was over. How have things been done differently now?The speed of Covid-19 vaccine development has been extraordinary. Work on developing vaccines began as soon as Chinese scientists published the sequence on 11 January. First phase 1 trial started 8-10 weeks after that. WHO has been involved in R&D {research and development} efforts since January 2020.Currently, over 165 candidate vaccines are at some stage of development. Of these, about 26 vaccine candidates are in human trial. We know of at least 3-4 going into phase III. AstraZeneca/Oxford, Moderna and CanSino are in or starting phase III; we also understand that a Russian candidate vaccine is entering this phase. There are several others currently in phase I/II, which will enter phase III in the coming two months. We have a very robust pipeline – the more candidates, the more opportunities for success.Should controlled human infection model studies be allowed to speed up human trials for Covid-19 vaccines?There are benefits and risks associated with controlled human infection studies or “human challenge studies”. However, these studies can be particularly valuable for testing vaccines and can help provide (preliminary) estimates of efficacy and safety.Such studies can be used to compare the efficacy of multiple vaccine candidates and thus select the most promising vaccines for larger studies. Well-designed challenge studies might thus not only accelerate Covid-19 vaccine development, but also make it more likely that the vaccines ultimately deployed are more effective.Challenge studies are also used to study infection and immunity. Such findings could significantly improve the overall public health response to the pandemic.How is ample production and equitable access being ensured?In April 2020, a global collaboration of governments, global health organizations civil society groups, businesses and philanthropies came together to form the Access to Covid-19 Tools Accelerator, or the ACT Accelerator. The idea is to form a plan for an equitable response to the Covid-19 pandemic. There are four pillars under the ACT Accelerator, of which vaccines is one.A COVAX Facility has been established recently under the vaccine pillar of the ACT Accelerator to manage the large, diverse portfolio of Covid-19 vaccines that are under development, to ensure a global sharing of risks associated with the development of Covid-19 vaccines and an equitable access based on fair allocation of the available vaccines. The COVAX Facility is a mechanism designed to guarantee rapid, fair and equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines worldwide. By connecting a pool of demand to a pool of supply, it will allow countries access to a broad portfolio of Covid-19 vaccines and provide manufacturers access to a demand-secure market.All countries are being invited to participate in the facility. The participating countries are expected to receive access to vaccines procured by the Facility at the negotiated price.WHO is also developing a global allocation framework, for vaccines and other Covid-19 tools, based on fair and equitable access principles. The framework is currently being developed with member-state input.Along with accelerating research and ensuring manufacturing capacity, WHO is also working with countries to develop regulatory capacity, as well as supportive policies and delivery channels. These will be essential to get a successful vaccine out to people.WHO is committed to and will continue to advocate to countries to ensure that as medicines and vaccines are developed, they are shared equitably with all countries and people.Who should receive the vaccines first?This was discussed extensively at the recent International Symposium on Novel ideas in Science and Ethics of Vaccines against Covid-19 pandemic, in which leading experts from across the globe participated.It is anticipated that the initial tranche of doses will be made available to all countries to ensure health and other essential frontline workers can be immunized, followed by other high-risk populations. The allocation framework for Covid-19 vaccines also aims to help countries prioritize at-risk populations as they develop in-country vaccination strategies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/speed-safety-fairness-key-for-vaccine-who-regional-director/story-HCKQgn8bt2tkHetihgkVmL.html
02-08-2020||India||CBI files fraud case against realty developer||New DelhiThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a fraud case against a real estate developer Rahul Gaur and his wife Navneet Gaur for allegedly cheating Bank of Baroda (BoB) and the Syndicate Bank of Rs 80 crore in the name of developing a high-end residential complex planned by their firm Brys International Private Limited. Gaur is son of a top builder but the company said their name should not be dragged with him as it has nothing to do with him. According to the CBI FIR, accessed by HT, the company had taken a credit of Rs 250 crore (Rs 150 crore from BoB and Rs 100 crore from the Syndicate Bank) in 2015-16. The company was supposed to develop luxurious apartment complex comprising 291 luxury apartments at Sector 150, Noida. The project was abandoned by the borrowers at initial stage itself, CBI said. The company also submitted fake bills showing purported purchase of material from certain supplies which could not be located and the vehicle particulars mentioned in the bills of supplies were also found to be bogus, according to the FIR. It is alleged that the initial deposits by the buyers should have been credited to the escrow account but it was not done. A forensic audit of the company’s account showed round-tripping and diversion of funds, opaque functioning and misrepresentation of facts, it added. Rahul Gaur could not be located for his comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-fraud-case-against-realty-developer/story-G0unKH6duP0wN7tOe8FgCJ.html
02-08-2020||India||After 4-month curb, Centre allows export of made-in-India ventilators||NEw Delhi The export of indigenously manufactured ventilators was approved by group of ministers (GoM) on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at their 19th meeting on Friday, the Union health ministry said in a statement on Saturday.“The Group of Ministers (GOM) on COVID-19 has considered and agreed to the proposal of the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare allowing the export of made-in-India ventilators. This decision has been communicated to the Director General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) for further needed action to facilitate the export of indigenously manufactured ventilators,” said the statementAccording to officials in the ministry aware of the matter, India now has the capacity to manufacture ventilators indigenously, allowing it to export the machines.“We now have at least a couple of dozen manufactures of ventilators in the country as opposed to a few some six months ago. The data before us suggests Covid-19 patients in India largely need oxygen therapy and not mechanical ventilation as much, and our case fatality rate is also very low, which is why in terms of demand and supply we are pretty comfortably placed. It opens up export avenues and that’s why the idea was discussed. Fortunately, everyone was on same page on this,” said one of the ministry officials, who did not wish to be identified.Between them, a couple of big manufacturers who earlier used to produce about 50-100 ventilators in a month can now manufacture anywhere between 5,000 and 10,000 ventilators.DGFT had prohibited the export of ventilators in March to ensure domestic availability of the machines to effectively fight the viral disease.Through a notification issued on March 24, 2020, all types of ventilators were prohibited for export. “…Now with export of ventilators having been allowed, it is hoped that domestic ventilators would be in a position to find new markets for Indian ventilators in foreign countries,” the health ministry statement read.As on July 31, 2020, 0.22% of about 500,000 active cases were on ventilators across the country.India’s case fatality rate (CFR) has been progressively declining, which also means fewer patients are on ventilators. According to the government data, India’s CFR on June 18 was 3.33%, which came down to 2.72% on July 10; it currently stands at 2.15%.“We have managed to curtail deaths due to Covid-19 quite well, and one of the reasons could be we are detecting cases early, and patients who are sick enough to require hospitalization is a small number. The number of cases could increase but how well an outbreak is managed depends largely on how many lives a country is able to save,” says Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the pulmonary medicine department at the All Indian Institute of Medical Sciences in New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-4-month-curb-centre-allows-export-of-made-in-india-ventilators/story-RRfEqPsRjj0xNgWp89StrJ.html
02-08-2020||India||Eleven killed as 70-tonne crane collapses at Vizag’s shipyard||Hyderabad Eleven people died on the spot when a 70-tonne jetty crane crashed on them at Hindustan Shipyard Limited (HSL), a Government of India undertaking, at Visakhapatnam on Saturday afternoon, officials said. Visakhapatnam district collector V Vinay Chand told reporters that the accident happened when the workers were testing the load capability of the crane. The base portion and the overhead cabin got separated, resulting in the collapse of the crane on the ground, he said. All the 11 workers were crushed to death as they came under the iron equipment. While one victim could not be identified immediately, the other 10 were identified as R Venkat Rao, Chaitanya, Ramu, P V Ratnam, P Naga Demudu, Satyaraj, Shiva Kumar, P Bhaskar, K Jagan and K Prasad. The collector, who inspected the site, said that the jetty crane was originally erected by Anupam Cranes of Mumbai two years ago, but had not been commissioned for regular operations. Later, HSL outsourced the crane operation to Greenfield Company which co-opted Lead Engineers and Squad7 Company for its maintenance. “These contractors have commenced full load trials now and the testing was being done when the tragedy occurred,” Vinay Chand added. There were 10 people in the cabin of the crane: three employees of Greenfield company, two of Lead Engineers and one from Squad7, apart from four permanent employees of HSL. “All of them died when the cabin crashed. One other person who is yet to be identified also died. The bodies have been retrieved and sent for post-mortem,” he said, adding that no one else was injured in the mishap. Vinay Chand said the HSL had initiated an inquiry by an internal committee, headed by its director (operations), while chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy ordered an independent probe by a committee of engineers, comprising heads of departments of civil, mechanical and electrical engineering of Andhra Engineering College, to investigate the cause of the crane accident. “The committees will probe if there is human negligence led to the mishap,” the collector said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eleven-killed-as-70-tonne-crane-collapses-at-vizag-s-shipyard/story-xfuCF3uNb6Jf4thIXI9NTP.html
02-08-2020||India||Punjab hooch tragedy toll rises to 84; Oppn attacks Amarinder||AMRITSAR: The death toll in the Punjab hooch tragedy rose to 84 as 43 more people died on Saturday, officials familiar with the matter said. A majority of the deaths, 62, were reported from Tarn Taran district, with Amritsar and Gurdaspur districts registering 11 deaths each. The police have arrested 25 people, including one of the key accused-- Darshan Rani, alias Faujan, in connection with the deaths across the three districts, officials said. The police have seized large quantities of ‘lahan’ (raw material used for making liquor) from various villages and ‘dhabas’ in the region around the Shambhu border, Rajpura and Patiala, Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta said. The raids have exposed a massive liquor racket, extending across several districts, he said, adding that several dhabas at Shambhu, Banur and Rajpura of Patiala have been sealed.An excise department official said on condition of anonymity that though reports of the chemical analysis of the material seized in police raids were yet to arrive, a preliminary check showed that the material was denatured spirit, generally used in the paint or hardware industry.News agency PTI reported that chief minister Amarinder Singh has ordered the suspension of seven excise officials, along with six policemen over negligence of duty. Among the suspended officials are two deputy superintendents of police and four station house officers, the news agency said. The CM also announced Rs 2 lakh ex gratia for each of the families of the deceased.Meanwhile, Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal attacked the state government over the deaths. “The hooch tragedy is the direct and natural consequence of the patronage given to Congress leaders, including ministers and MLAs, for freely carrying out rampant illicit liquor trade in the state,” he said in a statement. Reacting to the charges, Amarinder urged not to “politicise the tragedy”, saying such cases had happened earlier too under the SAD-BJP regime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-hooch-tragedy-toll-rises-to-84-oppn-attacks-amarinder/story-BzMkqwvWPBQkDHeiGtyItK.html
02-08-2020||India||Covid-19 consequences: GST kitty dips, but shows recovery signs||Goods and Services Tax (GST) collections in July declined 3.8% to Rs 87,422 crore from the previous month and dropped 14.3% year-on-year as the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic took its toll on the economy, according to figures released by the finance ministry on Saturday. In June, GST collections amounted to Rs 90,917 crore, In July 2019, revenue collections were Rs 1,02,082 crore. Conceding that July collections were lower than June’s, the finance ministry pointed out in a statement “...it is important to note that during the previous month, a large number of taxpayers also paid taxes pertaining to February, March and April 2020 on account of the relief provided due to Covid-19.” That means July’s actual collections are almost certain to have been higher than June’s -- pointing to a revival in business activity which is still well below pre-pandemic levels. Also read: Rs 3 lakh crore credit facility will cover professionals, says FMTaxpayers with a turnover of less than Rs 5 core still enjoy a respite in filing of their returns until September 2020, the ministry added.GST collections have been badly hit in the current financial year because of a 68-day nationwide lockdown enforced since March 25 to check the spread of Covid-19. Collections in April plunged 72% to Rs 32,172 crore compared to the same month last year. The year-on-year decline in May was 38% to Rs 62,151 crore. The year-on-year fall in June this year narrowed to 9%.Experts said the trend in GST collections, a bellwether of economic health, was positive. “June and July data reveal that broadly the collections are stabilising between 85-90% of the corresponding period last year. This is also corroborated by the number of E-Way bills being generated on a daily basis, which indicates that supply chain is getting back to normal.”E-Way bills, or Electronic Way bills, are required for movement of goods by GST-registered entities.Gross GST revenue collected in July was Rs 87,422 crore, of which central GST (CGST) was Rs 16,147 crore, state GST (SGST) was Rs 21,418 crore and integrated GST (IGST) Rs 42,592 crore. The cess collection in the month was Rs 7,265 crore, the finance ministry statement said.“The government has settled Rs 23,320 crore to CGST and Rs 18,838 crore to SGST from IGST as regular settlement. The total revenue earned by Central Government and the State Governments after regular settlement in the month of July,2020 is Rs 39,467 crore for CGST and Rs 40,256 crore for the SGST,” it added.Jain said: “This augurs well for the government and collections are likely to improve further as lockdown is eased progressively. Industry can perhaps hope for some more GST relief, particularly in form of liquidity support as they navigate through the slowdown.”MS Mani, partner at consulting firm Deloitte India, said:“While the overall GST collections for the month are heartening , the collections in many of the major states coming close to last year’s collections indicates that the recovery process has slowly started with the unlockdown process underway in these states.”“The progressive unlockdown steps taken by various states in June are reflected in the improvement in GST collections for July although the figures also include some transactions in respect of earlier months,” Mani added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-consequences-gst-kitty-dips-but-shows-recovery-signs/story-z8qHKGj0HPPad8Cy0r2xSP.html
02-08-2020||India||China moves troops near Lipulekh Pass||New Delhi China has mobilised a battalion strength of People’s Liberation Army (PLA) soldiers near Uttarakhand’s Lipulekh Pass, one of the locations along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) where movement of Chinese troops has been noticed over the last few weeks outside of the Ladakh sector, people familiar with the matter told Hindustan Times.India and China have been engaged in a standoff in Eastern Ladakh beginning in early May that flared up on June 15 into the bloodiest clash between soldiers of the two countries in 45 years. Twenty Indian soldiers and an unspecified number of PLA men died in the clash. Three weeks later, both sides agreed to start disengagement and de-escalation of troops at the standoff points after a conversation between National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi.There has been thinning of troops at the standoff points, but the disengagement is still a work in progress.Simultaneously, Indian military officers in Ladakh noticed a huge effort by Chinese troops to bolster their strength in their “depth areas,” and give infrastructure projects on its side a hard push. Chinese troops have augmented their presence on its side of the LAC elsewhere too.“There has been accretion of PLA troops across the LAC at Lipulekh Pass, parts of North Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh,” a top military commander said, requesting anonymity.Lipulekh Pass, which falls on the Mansarovar Yatra route, has been in the headlines over the last few months after Nepal objected to an 80-km road built by India to the Himalayan pass. The Lipulekh Pass is also used for annual barter trade during June-October between tribal populations living on either side of the Indo-China LAC.Kathmandu escalated tensions with India this year after it changed its political map to count the Kalapani area including Lipulekh - which lies close to the tri-junction of India-China-Nepal - as its own.At Lipulekh Pass, PLA has moved a battalion - approximately 1,000 soldiers - at some distance from the border.“It is a signal that the Chinese troops are prepared,” a second army officer said. He added that India had matched the strength of the PLA troops and was keeping a close watch on Nepal in context of its recent border claims.“The situation on the Line of Actual Control remains dynamic with the PLA trying to emphasise its presence beyond Ladakh by building infrastructure on their side of the LAC,” the top military commander quoted above said.In Ladakh and elsewhere, the troop movements and mistrust has led the army to prepare to station soldiers in the icy heights of Ladakh through the winter irrespective of how the disengagement and de-escalation efforts pan out.The government has already sounded out its embassies in the US, Russia and Europe to locate manufacturers of high-altitude clothing and snow tent manufacturers for emergency purchases. If the supply still falls short, Plan B is to divert stocks from locations such as Thoise, the base station for soldiers deployed in the Siachen Glacier.“It looks unlikely that we would be able to take our eyes off the border,” said the army officer, underscoring that this could be the only way for now to make Indian territory off-limits for an expansionist China and hold peace on the border.“After the PLA aggression, we don’t trust the Chinese and fear that they will come back again north of Pangong Tso as summer arrives in 2021,” said the military commander.Although the PLA has disengaged from patrolling points 14 (Galwan), 15-16 (Hot Springs), a smattering of adversary troops are still on forward location at patrolling point 17 A (Gogra) and withdrawal from all contested finger features is a distance away at Pangong Tso.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-moves-troops-near-lipulekh-pass/story-nSE7PjSaGar6rGawwLoQkK.html
02-08-2020||India||Muted Eid celebrations grim reminder of 2019 in Srinagar||Srinagar Gulzar Ahmad Rather spent Eid-Ul-Adha like any other Saturday, mostly indoors. There were no mass prayers, no congregation in the local mosque, no visiting homes of relatives or ritual sacrifice of a goat. The morning prayers were offered in a small batch, the noon meal was simple and shorn of delicacies, and afternoon tea was without any cake or cookies. In the evening, his three sons decided to not go out to meet friends and stay indoors. It was an early night for the family.For Rather, a 48-year-old vegetable vendor in Srinagar, the muted celebration was a reminder of Eid-Ul-Adha on August 12 last year, when an unprecedented lockdown and a communications blackout was clamped on the Valley in the wake of the government’s decision to strip the region of its special status and bifurcate it. But unlike last time, when passions ran high and tension was palpable in old Srinagar, the coronavirus pandemic and a depressed economy forced people to scale down celebrations this year. “That time, we, as a community, were emotionally hurt. There was anger and frustration. This time it is universal and there is an understanding that it is from God. Everyone is involved this time,” he said.With infection surging in the Valley – there are 2,700 cases in the 1.2 million-strong Srinagar alone – roads, markets and local shops were deserted on Saturday as no Eid prayers were offered in major mosques and shrines. To keep the virus at bay, people preferred to offer prayers at home -- either individually or in small groups of family members only. The barricades were lower than last year, the barbed wire fencing cordoned off fewer roads and there were no troops marching through city streets, but fear of the virus kept most people indoors. Asim Jan, a 21-year-old engineering student, said he was confined to his room for the first time on Eid. “I am reading a book on Eid because there is nothing to do. We can’t even move out,” he said.In a city with no cinemas and few avenues for entertainment, Eid-al-Adha is easily the most grand event. Known locally as big or Badi Eid, the celebration involves the traditional Qurbani, or sacrifice of goat, people buy traditional jewellery, clothes and an assortment of baked goods. Even the peak of the militancy in the 90s didn’t ebb the enthusiasm and long queues at overcrowded bakeries were a common sight. But the turmoil of the past year has denied local residents any cheer. Last year, Eid-ul-Adha fell just a week after the effective nullification of Article 370, which accorded special status to Kashmir. Then Eid-ul-Fitr this year was in May when the pandemic was fast spreading across the country. With Eid-ul-Adha celebrated a week before the one-year anniversary of the Article 370 move on Saturday, local residents said the anger over politics from last year was replaced by fear and hopelessness about the state of the economy and health care system. “We took limited orders for Eid. The pandemic has changed everything. And for us, this is the third Eid when we are making below-average sales,” said Arshid Ahmad, manager of a prominent bakery at city’s Residency Road.On the road, coils of barbed wire and iron barricades have been replaced by colorful road blocks. “I am in the city centre Lal chowk after a month only to get medicines. Who will celebrate Eid?” asked Saqib Mansoor, a local resident.Even home kitchens are without the usual delicacies like Yakhni, Rogan Josh, Methimaaz.”This time we didn’t purchase anything because of the situation. We are taking precautions and have not ordered anything,” said Suhail Ahmad, a Srinagar resident.Travel restrictions imposed to break the chain of infection stopped sheep traders from neighbouring states and the lack of tourism meant that people had no money to buy animals for the traditional qurbani. “This time, animals are not visible in the markets due to pandemic,” said Zahoor Ahmad, a resident of Lal Bazar. Local authorities threw open all markets three days before Eid but quickly rescinded the decision as cases piled up – only shops selling essential supplies were allowed. Many residents said they felt trapped throughout the past year – first by political tensions, then the lockdown and communications blackout, and when finally some normalcy was returning to the streets, the pandemic. “It feels like for one year, I have been doing nothing. We have virtually been in the lockdown for the past one year,” said Danish Ahmad, a local school teacher.The virtual year-long lockdown has ravaged the local economy, hurt small traders and ensured that ordinary people have little money to spend. “Jobs have been lost in every sector. On Eid, sales used to go 200 to 300 percent up but from last three Eids, the situation is going from bad to worse,” said Sheikh Ashiq, president of Kashmir Chamber of Commerce. A major generator of jobs – tourism – has been shuttered. Manzoor Ahmad Bhat, 35, a cab driver, hasn’t made a single trip to any tourist spot since August 5, 2019. “Before the restrictions last year, there were many tourists here and I used to make multiple trips in a month but since then I have not made a single penny for the whole year. How will I celebrate Eid when I don’t have anything to feed my wife?” Bhat asked.Javaid Ahmad Mir, who owns a laundry business, said that mood among locals had shifted from anger about the political situation to despair about personal finance. “Article 370 was on the minds of people last year and every heart was bleeding, this time people are more worried about the economy,” he said.“It will take another 10 years for us to recover”.Every Eid, Kashmir would welcome a large number of expatriates from West Asian countries who travelled home to celebrate the festival with their families. Bilal Ahmad, who works in a logistics firm in Dubai, travelled to old Srinagar with his wife and two young children last year, only to get trapped in the lockdown for months. This year, he decided to not come – but regretted spending the festival in a foreign country without family. “Last year, Eid was very tense but was still better than this one in the UAE. But there were no flights and uncertainty is still prevalent in Kashmir, so I decided to not come,” he said over phone. The uncertainty around the region’s political future, economy and the pandemic has left the local population drained. Mohammad Ramzan, 58, said that as a result of these three factors, people just fulfilled their religious obligations on Eid-Ul-Adha on Saturday, instead of a grand celebration. “Khushi kaha hai (Where is happiness?)” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muted-eid-celebrations-grim-reminder-of-2019-in-srinagar/story-4ZoHHGuo8GPjbsajchsewL.html
02-08-2020||India||New education policy aims to produce job creators: PM||New Delhi Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday strongly backed the push in the newly unveiled National Education Policy (NEP) for use of local languages as the medium of instruction in schools.Most countries that are in the top 20 in terms of the size of gross domestic product (GDP) use the local language as the medium of teaching, Modi said in a speech at Smart Hackathon 2020, an initiative to promote a culture of product innovation and a mindset of problem-solving among students.“In our country language has always been a sensitive subject. That is why the local languages were left uncared for and had little chance to develop. Now changes have been made in the education policy which will let these languages advance. They will not only boost Indian knowledge, but also unity,” Modi said.A major advantage of this approach would be that students would get to lean during their initial years in their own language. This will help them learn without pressure, he said.“Even if we look at the top 20 countries GDP-wise, than most of them provide education in their native language. These countries help their youth develop understanding in their own language but also focus on other languages to communicate globally. This policy and strategy will be very useful for India of the 21st century,” the prime minister said.On Wednesday, the cabinet headed by Modi approved the much-awaited NEP 2020, which says that wherever possible, students until class V and preferably until class VIII should be taught in their mother tongue. There has been much debate on the medium of teaching after the policy was released. The human resource development ministry has stressed that the policy seeks to encourage local languages, but is not urging a shedding of the English language.Modi said NEP was not just a policy document but reflected the will of the people. Modi also said flexibility was a hallmark of the policy, which will enable students to study music with math or coding with chemistry.“Many children still feel that they are judged on the basis of a subject,” Modi said, adding that they were forced to study subjects in which they had no interest. The NEP aims to change this approach and rectify past lacunae, Modi said, adding that both the intent and content of education were being transformed.“We are shifting from the burden of the school bag, which does not last beyond school, to the boon of learning which helps for life. From simply memorizing to critical thinking. For years, the limitations of the system had an adverse effect on the lives of students. No longer!” Modi said, elaborating on the rationale behind the policy.Stressing the breaking of subject-stream barriers, Modi said history has examples of stalwarts like Aryabhata, Leonardo da Vinci, Helen Keller and Rabindranath Tagore, who excelled in diverse fields. Now, the government has done away with some traditional boundaries between arts, science and commerce, he said.He said the NEP was also aimed at helping turn young Indians into job creators from job seekers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-education-policy-aims-to-produce-job-creators-pm/story-bKVorW5OMJ6TvLkYBOtVJI.html
02-08-2020||India||Food rationing system digitised in 24 states: Centre||India’s food-rationing system has been fully digitised in 24 states, allowing beneficiaries to receive subsidised food handouts in any of these states, a boost for migrant labourers, food minister Ram Vilas Paswan said on Saturday. The “One Nation One Ration Card” system, a digital platform which ensures in-kind welfare benefits move with migrants, now covers 650 million citizens in these states these states and Union Territories. It will cover rest of the states by March 2021. The nationwide portability of rations comes as a boost for migrants, potentially helping them to come back to cities from their home states, after a widespread lockdown imposed in March to contain the spread of Covid-19 forced millions to go without ration. In May, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, while announcing the Modi government’s Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus plan, had said that following the coronavirus outbreak, the government would accelerate the process of creating a portable food security system. The One Nation One Ration Card system currently enables 80% of all ration card holders under the National Food Security Act to withdraw their entitled quota of foodgrains from any fair price shop anywhere in the country,” Paswan said. The Internet-based system links Aadhaar biometric details of ration cards holders with their entitlement details, enabling a software to allow dispensation of foodgrains to any beneficiary anywhere. Until now, beneficiaries could only get access to rations in their home towns, which meant those who migrated elsewhere for work lost food aid. “If one beneficiary member of a family which hails from Ranchi works in a factory in Chennai, he can withdraw his share of the quota as subsidised grains are allotted on a per head basis,” Paswan said. The portability system essentially allows ration-card holders to draw rations from any electronically linked fair price shops. A digitized, portable public distribution system is a boon for labour mobility because beneficiaries of the National Food Security Act who lose out on their monthly quota of subsidised food when they migrate will now be fully covered. The scheme is now fully geared for seamless inter-state transactions in Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Telangana, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Inter-state portability, whereby a migrant draws subsidised food in a state other than his own, was initially tried on “clusters” of 12 “contiguous” states to iron out teething problems. Ration quota under the National Food Security Act is designed on a per capita basis. Under the law, the poor receive 5kg of foodgrain per person per month at a subsidized rate of Rs 2-3 per kg. Experts say the programme’s design has to account for the scale of internal migration. The Economic Survey 2016-17 used some new metrics to give updated data on migration. It suggested an annual inter-state migration flow of close to 9 million from 2011 to 2016 in a “circular” fashion based on data from railways. A novel cohort-based migration metric, a statistical tool developed by former chief economic adviser Arvind Subramanian, revealed an annual “inter-state migrant population of about 60 million and an inter-district migration as high as 80 million” between 2001 and 2011. Subramanian had called for full portability of all welfare doles. “The system is aimed to help migrant labourers, but we have come across routine cases of Internet connectivity and inclusion errors, whereby the needy don’t get foodgrains. So, we continue to demand universalisation of access to ration, without the need for Aadhaar,” said Ayesha, a Right to Food campaigners who goes by one name.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/food-rationing-system-digitised-in-24-states-centre/story-xLidpADiyJlwAMD3kKxt4I.html
02-08-2020||India||Construction of Ram temple will be the beginning of a new India: RSS||NEW DELHI: The construction of a Ram Temple in Ayodhya is not the last mile, but the beginning of a new India, said Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s (RSS) general secretary, Suresh Bhaiyyaji Joshi, on Saturday.Days ahead of the August 5 ground breaking ceremony of the Ram temple in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya town, Joshi said the construction marked the completion of one part of the struggle. “It is the new beginning of a new era. The Hindu samaj (society) wants to give a message of human welfare to the world. We should not remain meek, but should be powerful and the temple construction will mark the beginning of that,” he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, Joshi and a host of other Sangh leaders are expected to attend the ground-breaking ceremony.The RSS, considered the ideological fount of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, and its frontal organisation, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad, were at the forefront of the Ramjanmabhoomi movement that pushed for the construction of a Temple at the site where the Babri Masjid stood before its demolition in 1992. The RSS functionary said the struggle was not for the construction of just another place of worship as there are hundreds of temples across India. “Our ambition was not to add one more temple in the list. It is not completely true to see it only as a centre for religious faith…When we think of this temple there are other things that have to be taken into account. Lord Rama lived life as a man of principles and he was considered Maryada Purushottam. Therefore, his ideals and principles and his administration as a ruler will serve as an inspiration,” he said. Joshi also said the issue of national pride is also associated with the temple. “All those who attacked India left something behind and it pains us to see monuments and other buildings left behind by them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/construction-of-ram-temple-will-be-the-beginning-of-a-new-india-rss/story-fSwa0RDfVi53q6FkcGogOJ.html
02-08-2020||India||Amar Singh’s death mourned across parties||Almost everyone in New Delhi has an Amar Singh story (usually told to them by the man himself), an indication of the kind of connections across party lines that he had in the country’s political capital and also a reflection of the 1990s and the 2000s (his prime years), when coalitions ruled Delhi.Singh is widely credited with having played a role in saving the Congress-led United Progress Alliance government in 2008, by convincing Mulayam Singh Yadav’s Samajwadi Party to support it.The messages of condolence that followed his death on Saturday, in Singapore, at the relatively young age of 64, reflect this — from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to President Ram Nath Kovind, from Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav (whose father was Singh’s long-time mentor , although Yadav Jr and he did not see eye to eye), and from Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad to Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan.“Amar Singh Ji was an energetic public figure. In the last few decades, he witnessed some of the major political developments from close quarters. He was known for his friendships across many spheres of life. Saddened by his demise. Condolences to his friends & family. Om Shanti,” the Prime Minister tweeted on Saturday.Singh was a Rajya Sabha MP at the time of his death, but he wasn’t well for much of the past decade — he underwent a kidney transplant in 2011. In the decade before that, sometimes it seemed he was everywhere — in New Delhi but also in Mumbai, India’s business hub and home to Bollywood, where Singh’s connections extended to top businessmen (he was very close to Anil Ambani at one time and also to the Sahara Group’s Subrata Roy) and actors including Amitabh Bachchan, whom he used to refer to as his brother, but with whom he had a falling out, reportedly because the actor didn’t visit him in jail.Also read: Amar Singh and the Bharatiya Janata Party - so near and yet so farSingh’s family traces its roots back to Azamgarh, but he was born in Aligarh, in 1956; he grew up in Kolkata’s Burrabazar (his family was in the locks business) and studied law. He entered politics, like many in India do, through the Congress, but his fortunes changed in the early 1990s when his path crossed that of a man who would go on to become his friend and mentor — Mulayam Singh Yadav. By 1996, Singh was in the Rajya Sabha, a nominee of the Samajwadi Party.On Saturday, Akhilesh Yadav tweeted out a photograph that shows Amar Singh with him and Mulayam Singh Yadav and said: “On being deprived of Amar Singhji’s affection, care, my heartfelt condolences and tributes.”Singh’s latest stint in the Rajya Sabha was also facilitated by the party — he won as an independent, but supported by the party (he was expelled from it in 2010, but made up with Mulayam Singh Yadav in 2015). He was named the party’s national general secretary in 2016, but was again expelled from the party in early 2017. He flirted with the Bharatiya Janata Party after that.In 2018, after a period of exile from the public eye following his second expulsion but also partly on account of his failing health, he appeared on stage during a meeting addressed by PM Modi. At the meeting, while lashing out at his political opponents for their nexus with industrialists, PM Modi referred to Singh and said he could disclose the details.Clearly enjoying the attention, Singh later told mediapersons that he would give out the names when the time was ripe. “Lab khulenge to utar jayenge chehre saare…” (people will regret it when I open my mouth) he said to a television channel.But he never joined the party.Singh also worked his way into the good books of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the BJP’s ideological parent; not only did he support the demand for a Ram temple at Ayodhya, but also donated his ancestral house in Azamgarh to the Sangh.He also supported the BJP on both demonetisation and the abrogation of Article 370.While speaking during the debate on the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Bill in the Rajya Sabha on August 5 last year, he said he could not be called a “dal badloo” or a party hopper. “I did not leave the party, though I was expelled twice,” he said on the floor of the House and proceeded to support the BJP.Ironically, it was the same party which he worked against during the 2008 trust vote that the UPA won. Indeed, some would say the story of how the high-profile right-hand man of Mulayam Singh Yadav and friend of Amitabh Bachchan ended up in jail (albeit for just four days) is also the story of how the UPA government won the trust vote in 2008. That stay in jail came after his arrest in a case over allegations that three Bharatiya Janata Party lawmakers were bribed to vote for the UPA in the 2008 trust vote. Singh was acquitted for want of evidence.Singh claimed (and this was subsequently confirmed by then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh in an interview to Karan Thapar) the UPA got in touch with him when the Left parties threatened to cease supporting the UPA over signing the India-US nuclear deal. The best option for Singh’s government was to have Mulayam Singh Yadav and his 39 MPs on its side, but this was tricky because the SP’s socialist credentials could be hurt if they were seen getting close to the Americans.Singh said that at the time, the SP actually enjoyed a better relationship with the Left parties than it did with the Congress. But the Congress’s floor managers knew if there was anyone who could convince Netaji (as Mulayam Singh Yadav is called), it was the flamboyant Singh himself. But for that, Singh would have to forget an old hurt — how Congress president Sonia Gandhi ignored him at a meeting she called for potential allies in 2004 at the time of the formation of the UPA. Singh did — and some believe that he helped save the government of the day. The UPA would go on to win again in 2009.The return of a dominant party after nearly three decades may have dimmed Singh’s political relevance, but this also came at a time when his health was failing.Over the past few months, the always-friendly Singh was ready to forgive. Tweeting from his hospital bed in Singapore in February, while being treated for his long-standing kidney ailment, he said, of his relationship with Bachchan: “Today is my father’s death anniversary and I got a message for the same from @SrBachchan ji. At this stage of life when I am fighting a battle of life and death, I regret for my over reaction against Amit ji and family. God bless them all.” On Saturday, Bachchan took to his blog to express his grief: “Struck with grief, bowed head, only prayers are left. Close life, close relationship, the soul is no more.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amar-singh-s-death-mourned-across-parties/story-8PAsWQKX0nl3Z78sUbclrJ.html
02-08-2020||India||Plea in SC seeks scrapping of section that criminalises contempt of court||New Delhi Hindu Group director and journalist, N Ram, along with journalist and former Union minister Arun Shourie and advocate Prashant Bhushan moved the Supreme Court on Friday challenging the validity of section 2(c)(i) of the Contempt of Courts Act which criminalises publication of any matter that could scandalise or lower the authority of courts. The petitioners contended that the provision is violative of freedom of speech under Article 19 of the Constitution and effectively gags discourse on matters of public importance. “It violates right to free speech and expression guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a). It is unconstitutional as it is incompatible with preambular values and basic features of the constitution,” the plea said. The Supreme Court had recently invoked the provision to issue notice to Bhushan for his tweets against Chief Justice of India, SA Bobde and the Supreme Court. A three- judge bench headed by justice Arun Mishra had issued notice to Bhushan in the case on July 22.By criminalising criticism of court in sweeping and absolute terms, the provision raises a prior restraint on speech on matters of public and political importance, it was submitted. “The offences of scandalizing the court is rooted in colonial assumptions and objects and have no place in legal orders committed to democratic constitutionalism,” the petition said. The Contempt of Court provides for two kinds of contempt – civil contempt and criminal contempt. Civil contempt is defined under section 2(b) as wilful disobedience to any judgment, order or direction of a court or wilful breach of an undertaking given to a court.Section 2(c) deals with criminal contempt and attempts to punish publication of any material or commission of any act against courts. This provision has three sub-clauses which explain when such a publication or act could amount to criminal contempt. First, if such publication or act scandalises or lowers the authority of any court (sub –clause i), second, if it prejudices or interferes with any judicial proceeding (sub-clause ii) and third, if it interferes with or obstructs administration of justice (sub-clause iii).The petitioners have challenged only sub-clause (i) which criminalises any publication or act on the ground that it scandalizes or lowers the authority of the court. The provision, it was contended, has an extremely wide import and is incapable of objective interpretation.“For example, a mere interrogation by a traffic constable about the red beacon on the hood of a judge’s car was held to be contempt on the ground of scandalizing the court,” the petition highlighted. It was argued that the provision uses vague terminology whose scope and limits are impossible to demarcate. “In particular the terminology ‘scandalizes or tends to scandalize’ invites subjective and greatly differing readings and applications. Thus, it violates Article 14 which demands equal treatment and non-arbitrariness,” the plea added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-sc-seeks-scrapping-of-section-that-criminalises-contempt-of-court/story-QVeWjeWQgbAQG4eiLA496N.html
02-08-2020||India||CISF asks for social media IDs of personnel||New Delhi: The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) has issued social media guidelines, asking its personnel to share their user IDs from Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, YouTube and other such platforms, and refrain from criticising the government’s policies on these portals, failing which strict legal and disciplinary action will be taken against the defaulters. The fresh guidelines, issued on July 31, will apply to about 140,000 personnel of the force. The force guards airports, Metro services and nuclear and space facilities apart from several sensitive government installations”. The latest social media policy, issued by the CISF headquarters, said: “In spite of clear guidelines, there have been instances where social media platforms were used by the force personnel to share sensitive information about the nation/organization and to criticize the policies of government”. HT has reviewed a copy of the guidelines.Asserting that social media platforms pose a threat to the national security and the general discipline of the force, CISF has asked its men to “disclose their user ID of all social media platforms (Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, YouTube, etc) being used by them to the department, through (their) respective units/formations”. The personnel have also been asked to inform the department in case of any change of the user ID or the creation of a new ID. The CISF’s personnel have been strictly asked “not to create and use anonymous or pseudonymous User ID”.The directive also says that the “personnel should not use any social media platform to criticize the policies of the government on any matter”. The jawans have been told that social media platforms shouldn’t be used as a tool to bypass the chain of command and the proper channel to air the grievances, according to the directive.“In case of any violation, strict legal and disciplinary action should be initiated against the defaulters as per existing laws and rules,” it added. The CISF’s top brass did not respond to HT’s calls or text for a comment on the guidelines. The public relations officer was also not available for a comment.An officer who was in favour of the policy said: “It doesn’t stop anyone from using Facebook, Twitter or Instagram. Only the users IDs of personnel are being asked for because often it happens that security personnel are trapped by enemy countries on social media and then forced to divulge sensitive information”.Several serving officers in the CISF said that the policy appeared “arbitrary”. “It’s better that they should give us a basic phone and a 2G connection otherwise smart phones have no use for us if such policies are implemented,” said a company commander in CISF, who did not wish to be identified.Another commandant rank officer said “we are mostly away from our families for months and social media is the only source to keep us entertained or express our opinions, which should not be taken away”.Former Director General of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) K Durga Prasad said: “In a security related job, social media needs to be carefully used. Security personnel cannot equate themselves with civilians. We may say things on such platforms which can inadvertently affect the national security or our job. We have seen a number of cases in the past, when security personnel are targeted on social media by enemy forces.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cisf-asks-for-social-media-ids-of-personnel/story-R5Frz0m4jYaYN6E4pSEBlM.html
02-08-2020||India||1,886 Sars-CoV-2 genomes sequenced||Indian researchers have sequenced over 1,800 genomes of the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which will help them monitor mutations of the virus and trace the spread of the infection.“So far, 1,886 genomes have been sequenced by various laboratories across the country. Of these, 833 are of very good quality and give us a lot of data. What we have learnt so far is that A2A is the dominant strain in India – the same as the globally prevalent strain – meaning that any drug or vaccine developed in other parts of the world should theoretically work here (factoring in the difference is response of people, of course),” Dr Rakesh Mishra, director of the Hyderabad-based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, said. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“We have also seen that the virus is very slow to mutate. We have seen over 2,700 mutations even in the A2A strain but it doesn’t make it very different and certainly doesn’t change the clinical findings,” he said at a media briefing through video link. “The mutations act like a bar-coding system where we can trace the path of the spread of the virus.”Union minister of health and family welfare, and science and technology Dr Harsh Vardhan said interpretation of the findings and correlating them to global findings will help Indian researchers understand the behaviour of the virus, which surfaced at the end of 2019 in the central Chinese city of Wuhan and spread rapidly across the world.“The samples from parts of the country have been collected and the genome sequencing has been done – there are areas in the country that have resemblance to the virus from Wuhan, then there are areas where the virus resembles that from Italy,” he said.The most interesting finding was the A3i or A4 strain that was unique to India – once accounting for 40% of the Covid-19 cases – has now started declining and constitutes only about 5% of cases.“The A4 strain – also referred to as the A3i strain -- has almost disappeared in India. This was a big cluster of cases that came in from an East Asian countries such as Brunei and spread across India in a cluster of cases. And, although the A2A strain is better adapted to infect humans binding more easily to the ACE2 receptor, I think the A4 strain died out because of aggressive contact tracing and quarantine,” said one of the scientists involved in the project, requesting anonymity.The path traced using the mutations of the strain imply that it travelled with members of the Islamic missionary group Tablighi Jamaat, who gathered in Delhi for a religious congregation in March, the scientist said. “Although the strain has almost died out in southern India, there are still some cases of the strain in Delhi,” the scientist said.“We get anonymised samples, but it is a possibility. The strain is present only in South East Asia and seems to have travelled from Malaysia to Delhi and then Hyderabad, where we first detected the strain. From what we have learnt about the strain, however, is that it seems weaker. Of the A3i genomes we sequenced, none of the patients had died,” said Dr Mishra. The study of mutations in the Sars-Cov-2 strain also has implications for diagnostics and vaccine. “If we talk about diagnostics, the RT-PCR {or reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, test uses probes of the N, S, E and RdRp gene to detect Sars-Cov-2. What we have observed is that the N gene has had more mutations than the others and therefore probes of N gene are likely to throw up more false negatives and be the first ones to fail. This will be different for different countries, of course. Monitoring the S or spike protein is also important as it helps the virus bind with ACE 2 receptor to enter cells. A study of the mutations will also be helpful for vaccine development programmes,” said Dr Anurag Agrawal, director, Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB).  ACE2 receptor is the protein that provides the entry point for the coronavirus to infect human cells.The institute has sequenced almost 800 genomes already and is likely to complete 1,000 by next week. “The most important thing has been studying the spread of the infection in various waves – the first being the ones from Wuhan in Kerala, then subsequent waves coming in from Europe, North America and the Middle East with the international travellers,” said Dr Agrawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-886-sars-cov-2-genomes-sequenced/story-2IyEtIPZNKsNszwWCprE9L.html
02-08-2020||India||Sushant had no Godfather, says his sister in appeal to Modi, wants him to step in||Actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister Shweta Singh Kirti appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday to ensure no evidence is tampered with in the probe into her brother’s death even as Bihar Police said it was capable of probing the sensational case on its own.Kirti posted a message tagging the prime minister on social media amid growing controversy and politics surrounding 34-year-old Sushant Singh Rajput, who was found dead in his Bandra flat in Mumbai on June 14.“We are from a very simple family. My brother had no Godfather when he was in Bollywood nor do we have anyone right now. My request to you is to immediately look into this case and make sure that everything is handled in a sanitised way and no evidences are tampered with. Expecting justice to prevail,” Kirti wrote in her appeal.Also read: Ankita Lokhande says people sent her videos of Sushant Singh Rajput’s body: ‘Saddest thing that can happen’The developments came on a day Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said he could hand the case over to the Central Bureau of Investigation if the family of Sushant Singh Rajput made the demand. Kumar said it was the duty of the Bihar Police to conduct an investigation and it was doing so. “Mumbai police should cooperate with Bihar police since a case was lodged by the actor’s father. Bihar police is investigating the case with full honesty and sincerity. The family should get justice.”Bihar’s director general of police Gupteshwar Pandey insisted his force was capable of investigating the case, and said the four-member Patna Police team in Mumbai had recorded the statements of Ashok Kumar (Rajput’s chef), Neeraj (Rajput’s help), Ankita Lokhande (Rajput’s former girlfriend), Mahesh Shetty (Rajput’s friend), Meetu Singh (Rajput’s sister) and Dr Chawra (who treated Rajput).When asked if Rhea Chakraborty, who was in a live-in relationship with Rajput, would be interrogated, an official of the Bihar police said, “It is not required as of now. But she is under our watch.”In Mumbai, parliamentary affairs minister and Shiv Sena leader Anil Parab said the government asked police to question people levelling allegations of political involvement in the probe. The statement came a day after actor Shekhar Suman said the case was not being handed over to the CBI to save son of a politician.“Honourable chief minister has clarified on Friday that whoever has any information related to the case should come forward and give it to the police. On the other hand, I have also appealed to the police that they should summon the people who have been making such claims. They should take the information about the information of the involvement of any politician,” Parab said. The minister reiterated that Mumbai police are competent to handle the case.Investigation in the case stoked a row last week after Rajput’s father, KK Singh, lodged an FIR in Bihar where he named Chakraborty and her family members and alleged that they developed an acquaintance with his son as part of a deliberate conspiracy so that she could establish herself in the film industry, and with an eye on his son’s money. He claimed there were unexplained transfers from his son’s account including a Rs 15 crore transaction. He also alleged that on June 6, less than a week before Rajput was found dead in his house, Chakraborty left with many of his belongings, including his laptop, ATM card and some documents.Since then, the governments and police forces of two states, top Bollywood stars and politicians have waded into the row. Chakraborty released a statement on Friday rejecting the allegations. Her plea asking for the transfer of the probe from Bihar to Mumbai will be heard in the Supreme Court on August 5. The governments of Bihar, Maharashtra and Singh have all filed caveats in the case. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has also registered a money laundering case.In Bihar, attention has been focused on Chakraborty with the DGP saying on Saturday that the police team could not locate her. “The police team visited banks to gather details about the transactions. All evidences are being collected. The team also tried to collect CCTV footages, video clips, FSL report, medico-legal report, postmortem report and all related papers from the Mumbai police,” he said.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajput-s-sister-appeals-to-pm-nitish-calls-for-justice/story-jgeWgvw6LAegopgPNuq9aO.html
02-08-2020||India||5 bio-repositories for clinical, viral Covid-19 samples set up||India has set up five dedicated bio-repositories for clinical and viral samples linked to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) that will be shared with researchers from the academia and industry to speed up innovations to combat the pandemic. The department of biotechnology has supported the setting up of the bio-repositories at the NCR-Biotech Science Cluster-Translational Health Science And Technology Institute, Faridabad; Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, New Delhi; National Centre for Cell Science, Pune; InStem, Bangalore; and Institute of Life Sciences Bhubaneswar.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“Today, five bio-repositories have been created at five places across the country, two in Delhi and adjoining Faridabad. Researchers from across the country – not just within the government setup but outside it too – can have access to bio-samples such as serum (blood), stool, urine, sputum, or swabs of virus sample whatever it is. I am sure that this concept will be a boon for the whole scientific community, especially the young researchers and startups,” Union minister for health and family welfare and science and technology Dr Harsh Vardhan said at the launch.“These repositories are authorised to share these samples with academia and industry involved in development of diagnostics, vaccines, etc. after scrutinising the purpose of request and ensuring benefit to the country,” the minister said.The repositories already have over 44,000 clinical and 17 viral samples in the bank. Of these, over 5,000 samples have already been shared with 30 institutes or companies.“The repositories in Delhi and NCR {National Capital Region} have the highest number of samples. We are trying to get more institutes on board,” said Dr Renu Swarup, secretary, department of biotechnology.Not just with clinical samples, the department of biotechnology has supported innovations for India’s fight against Covid-19 through its industry consortium, which has supported 120 projects and scientists either in development or manufacturing.These include 19 projects and scientists working on developing a vaccine against Covid-19 and a supporting ecosystem for animal and clinical trials; 50 on diagnostics development and scaling up of manufacturing, 25 projects and scientists working on developing either novel molecules or therapies or repurposing already existing ones, and 26 other biomedical interventions, according to Dr Swarup. “We have supported vaccine development right from early development to clinical trials. Now we are looking at preparing our manufacturing capacity as well. One of the vaccines supported by us – developed by Zydus – has already progressed to clinical trials in humans. Four others are in advanced stages of preclinical studies and should go into trial in another four to six weeks. As for the trial to see whether BCG vaccine has any impact on Covid-19 infection, the volunteers have been recruited,” said Dr Swarup.The organisation has also started preparing sites for large phase III clinical trials at five places across the country – INCLEN Trust International’s Haryana chapter; KEM Vadu, Pune; Christian Medical College, Vellore; Society for Health Allied Research Education (SHARE), Hyderabad. The trial sites will provide access to cohorts of 50,000 to 100,000 people and a serological study will begin Saturday onwards to check for the prevalence of antibodies at the sites.“We have kept the sites ready for the phase III trials in five places. The preparation had started for dengue and chikungunya trials under the national biopharma mission launched two years ago and was quickly converted for Covid-19. In addition, we are preparing six other trial sites that are likely to be ready by year end. We are already in talks with the World Health Organisation that is about to begin its solidarity trials and India would like to be a participant,” said Dr Swarup.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-bio-repositories-for-clinical-viral-covid-19-samples-set-up/story-fsnjKFoReTFjZiyC1cszEM.html
02-08-2020||India||Key UPA-era leaders close ranks||Key leaders of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) closed ranks on Saturday and attempted to project the “junior versus seniors” fight as an attempt by some Rahul Gandhi aides, who held the UPA responsible for the declining fortunes of the Congress, to undermine the legacy of former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. Shashi Tharoor and Milind Deora, who both served as ministers in the UPA regime, came out on Twitter to support former information and broadcasting minister, the Congress’s Manish Tewari,who wrote on the microblogging site this week that the question whether the former ruling coalition had been sabotaged from within must be gone into.Another UPA-era minister, Anand Sharma, wrote 11 tweets to say that “honest introspection” was always helpful and “Congressmen must be proud of UPA’s legacy.” Party insiders said the seniors’ move to label members of the young brigade as critics of Manmohan Singh’s legacy was aimed at isolating some Team Rahul members because the Congress brass can’t afford to let the achievements of the UPA era to be dragged into ugly infighting.  “No party disowns or discredits its legacy,” Sharma wrote. “Nobody expects the BJP {Bharatiya Janata Party} to be charitable and give us credit but our own should respect and not forget”.Deora invoked Manmohan Singh’s words—”history will be kinder to me”—to say, “Could he have ever imagined that some from his own party would dismiss his years of service to the nation & seek to destroy his legacy - that, too, in his presence”. Tewari, who had lashed out at Congres MP Rajiv Satav on Friday, continued his attacks. “BJP was out of power for 10 years. Not once did they ever blame {Atal Bihari} Vajpayee or his government for their then predicaments. In @INCIndia unfortunately some ill–informed would rather take swipes at Dr. Manmohan Singh led UPA govt than fight NDA/BJP. When unity reqd (required) they divide,” he tweeted. Tharoor supported both Tewari and Deora and tweeted, “UPA’s transformative ten years were distorted & traduced by a motivated & malicious narrative. There’s plenty to learn from our defeats & much to be done to revive @INCIndia. But not by playing into the hands of our ideological enemies.” Many team Rahul leaders have been critical of the second term of Manmohan Singh as allegations of corruption -- in the allocation of 2G telecom spectrum and coal blocks, for instance -- let the Congress down in the 2014 elections, when the party won its lowest ever tally of 44 seats in Lok Sabha.But senior leaders point out that all allegations were dismissed in the courts and the hallmark of Singh’s government was rights-based legislation that brought about social empowerment. On Thursday, at a meeting of Rajya Sabha MPs with party chief Sonia Gandhi, when Congress veteran Kapil Sibal called for introspection, party MP Rajeev Satav retorted, “People who are asking for introspect should have introspected much earlier. UPA 2 brought Congress down to 44 MPs.” Later, KC Venugopal also countered former finance minister P Chidambaram and accused the seniors of not backing Rahul Gandhi. As the Team UPA versus Team Rahul tussle escalated on Saturday, a Congress leader did not rule out the possibility of some seniors approaching or writing to the leadership about attempts by a section of young leaders to “demean” Manmohan Singh and his team of ministers. “If we dropped to 44, it was a collective responsibility. You cannot single out the UPA government and absolve the party organisation of its responsibilities,” the Congress leader said, requesting anonymity. “Also, you cannot demean a person of the stature of Dr Singh who has all along displayed grace and dignity. I am surprised that the person (Rajeev Satav) was not rebutted by seven UPA ministers present in the meeting,” the leader added. Sharma, too, showered praise on Manmohan Singh and pointed out that the need of the hour was to fight the BJP. He listed major achievements—unprecedented social and economic transformation and empowerment of the poor and vulnerable Indians, the rural job guarantee programme and the Right to Food legislation,and rapid economic growth -- during the UPA regime.The UPA government was a “victim of a grand political conspiracy and malicious disinformation campaign of the BJP, political opponents and powerful vested interests,” he said. “Congress as a democratic party is always open to a debate on its achievements and failures. Honest introspection and analysis are always helpful and gives strength to move forward,” he tweeted, “History will honestly record the commendable contribution of former PM Dr Manmohan Singh and UPA Chairperson Sonia Gandhi. The two leaders led India to a decade of compassionate and inclusive growth which all of us are proud of.”Late Saturday evening, Rajeev Satav, too took to Twitter to hit back. “The malicious attempt to draw Dr Manmohan Singh into this exchange is reprehensible. To say my observations cast a shadow over Dr Singh’s leadership of UPA II is a lie, a total misrepresentation of facts. I hold Dr Singh in high esteem. He is above reproach,” Satav said, adding that he will discuss his comments “or those made by any other esteemed colleagues, on internal party forums only.” In a series of tweets, he maintained that the meeting of Congress’ Rajya Sabha MPs with Sonia Gandhi was “extremely fruitful” and said party has given many platforms “to voice our views freely”. He claimed that he has never been comfortable discussing internal discussions publicly but added that as “a few of my esteemed colleagues and seniors have reacted on social media” it has compelled him to clear the air. Satav hailed UPAII as a “good govt, people’s govt” and said, “The success of UPA II is reinforced when we compare it to the sharp slide under Modi. Elections are on the anvil in Bihar& Assam. BJP’s misdeeds have piled up. We need to jointly stand together under the leadership of Soniaji,Dr Singhji,Rahul Ji” He also praised Singh for his “commendable contributions to building modern India. He will always be held in high regard.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-upa-era-leaders-close-ranks/story-4vRsQTNvHQ92V5SRqJPKBK.html
02-08-2020||India||Second sero survey in Delhi begins with four districts sampled on Day-1||Health officials in four of Delhi’s 11 districts began collecting on Saturday blood samples for the second round of serological surveillance to check of the prevalence of Covid-19, an exercise that will go on till August and determine whether the city is any closer to the crucial herd immunity threshold. In all, 15,015 samples – from a cross-section of people selected to represent Delhi’s population demographic and – will be collected and tested for Sars-Cov-2 antibodies that will indicate a past infection. The samples are likely to be analysed and the results available by third week of August, according to officials from Delhi’s health department. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageHT reported on Saturday that the highest number of samples has to be collected are from the Northwest district (2,200), followed by West (2,145), and Central (1,548). The fewest will be from New Delhi district, where 885 have to be collected, according to the break-up given in the standard operating procedure (SOP) of the government, a copy of which is with HT. “On the directions of Hon’ble CM Shri @ArvindKejriwal, the Delhi govt has begun monthly sero-survey in the city from today. The survey conducted in June showed 24% Delhi residents have developed antibodies. This will aid the govt to tailor it’s strategy to changing circumstances,” said a tweet from the chief minister’s official handle. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had on July 22 announced that a sero-surveillance will be undertaken in Delhi during the first week of every month will be conducted to determine the silent spread of the infection in the city. In North district – one of the four districts to start sample collection on Saturday – 300 samples were collected on the very first day. “The households had been identified by our teams that go into the field. And, the people selected as per the random sampling were called to the nearby dispensaries for a blood draw. We should be able to complete collecting all the 1,074 samples within three to four days,” said an official from the district. Unlike the first round of the surveillance, where all of the samples had been collected door-to-door, the government has also allowed collection at selected spots and health centre. “We have detailed break-up of dispensary-wise number of samples to be collected and the days on which it has to be done. We started the sample collection today because the numbers are likely to dip on Monday because of Rakshabandhan,” the official said. The repeated surveys will not only help in estimating the number of people who have been exposed to the infection, but will also help the government determine the number of new infections that might have been asymptomatic and gone undetected. “The repeated surveillance will show us the increase in the percentage of people who might have immunity to the infection – represented by the presence of antibodies – but it will also tell us the number of new infections that have happened over the period,” said Dr Suneela Garg, professor of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College. She is part of the state government team that helped design the sample for the second round of the survey. In the Central district – which has to collect the third-highest number of samples – sample collection will begin on Sunday. “We will collect the samples over a period of seven days. Sixteen teams have been formed for the sample collection and the total number of samples to be collected each day will be close to 300,” said an official from the district, on condition of anonymity. Each team, which can collect 25 to 40 samples a day, will consist of ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) workers, an auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM), a phlebotomist or a lab technician, and a community volunteer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-sero-survey-in-delhi-begins-with-four-districts-sampled-on-day-1/story-JPu7cCLiFAmFaKux7HLNbM.html
02-08-2020||India||Bihar reports highest spike in Covid-19 cases with 3,521 new patients, scales up testing||A senior officer of the Patna district administration, leading the Covid-19 battle in the state capital, tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday, on a day Bihar reported the biggest spike in Covid-19 cases with 3,521 new infections and 14 deaths. The officer, who played a proactive role in combating the virus and ensuring that the government’s intervention reaches the Covid-19 affected in Patna, has opted for home isolation after he suffered a bout of fever, prompting him to take the test. A bureaucrat-turned-MP of the JD(U) also tested positive for the virus. The spike in cases coincided with the highest number of testing of samples —28,624 — reported by the state health department on Saturday. “Of the 3,521 cases reported Saturday, 2,502 samples were tested on July 31 and 1,019 on July 30, taking the state’s overall case tally to 54,508, with 18,722 active cases,” said Bihar’s health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh during the media briefing on Saturday. The government’s Covid-19 bulletin, which was tweeted through the state health department Twitter handle, mentioned of 14 deaths till Friday. Nine Covid-19 deaths were reported from AIIMS-Patna and three from the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH) on Saturday. Munger and Patna reported three deaths each, Bhagalpur and Muzaffarpur two each, while Araria, East Champaran, Rohtas and Siwan reported one death each, as per the government’s Covid-19 bulletin. Two deaths were reported at AIIMS from Patna, and one each from East Champaran, Bhojpur, Saran, Vaishali, Aurangabad, Saran and Nalanda, according to Dr Sanjeev Kumar, Covid-19 nodal officer for AIIMS-Patna. Besides, two deaths were reported at the NMCH from Patna and one from Gaya, according to Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, nodal officer for Covid-19 at the hospital. As part of Bihar’s test, track and treat strategy, Singh said the department had been able to ramp up testing to 28,624. These samples were tested on Friday. It had tested 22,742 samples on the previous day, he added. “A total 1,823 patients had recovered during the last 24 hours, taking the total number of recoveries to 35,473, with a recovery rate of 65.08%,” added Singh. Bihar’s chief minister Nitish Kumar, who inspected some hospitals through video conferencing, asked the hospital administration to ensure availability of doctors and also provide telephonic medical consultation to people. He asked his officials to ensure that doctors visited the patients regularly at the hospital. He also asked officials to ensure sufficient availability of ambulance to ferry patients, said Auupam Kumar, secretary, information and public relations department. Redressal of patient grievance In keeping with the CM’s directive, Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Agarwal visited the COvid-19 district control room and asked his officers to speak to patients and their relatives through video and phone calls to redress any grievance they had. He also advised them to prepare summary chart as per the requirement of patients, which should address issues like availability of ambulance, medicines, need for Covid test, requirement of doctors and paramedics, etc. He also asked officers to document questionnaire based on patient feedback. He advised them to ensure round the clock duty of doctors and paramedical staff at the Covid hospitals. He said people could avail of the facility of telephonic medical consultation by calling up the Covid-19 toll free number. Of the total 54,508 cases, Patna, which reported 442 cases on Saturday, topped the chart with an overall case tally to 9358, followed by 2638 cases in Bhagalpur, Muzaffarpur (2459), Nalanda (2266) and Gaya (2209).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-reports-highest-spike-in-covid-19-cases-with-3-521-new-patients-scales-up-testing/story-hLgQ8eS9Tlb4nUzQ7cjjSP.html
02-08-2020||India||Nitish Kumar ready to let CBI probe Sushant Singh’s case if his family requests||Amid growing demand for a CBI probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, the Bihar government Saturday said it could hand over the case to the central probe agency if the late actor’s father so demands, even as one of the actor’s sisters urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to intervene.Sushant was found dead at his Mumbai residence on June 14.Talking to news channels on Saturday, chief minister Nitish Kumar said if Sushant’s father K K Singh, who had lodged the FIR with Patna police, demands a CBI probe, his government could think of recommending it to the ministry of home affairs (MHA).Kumar said it was the duty of the Bihar Police to conduct an investigation and it was doing so.“Mumbai police should cooperate with Bihar police since a case was lodged by the actor’s father. Bihar police is investigating the case with full honesty and sincerity. The family should get justice,” he said.Water resource minister Sanjay Jha had earlier said the chief minister would definitely recommend a CBI probe if Sushant’s family demanded so.Also Read: Thackeray under pressure from Bollywood ‘mafia’ to derail Sushant probe: Sushil ModiSushant’s sister Shweta Singh Kirti Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to intervene expressing fears that the evidence in the case could be tampered with. She requested the PM to ensure everything was handled in a “sanitised way”.Meanwhile, talking to media persons, Bihar’s DGP Gupteshwar Pandey said it was for the family of the actor to demand a CBI probe. “We do not and should not demand CBI enquiry. Bihar Police is capable of doing the investigation in the case. A senior IPS officer would be sent to Mumbai for assisting the four-member team.”He also dismissed reports that Mumbai police were mistreating Bihar police officials.Also Read: Sushant Singh Rajput death: Rhea Chakraborty ‘under watch’ of Bihar policeThe DGP said the police team had recorded the statements of Ashok Kumar (Sushant’s chef), Neeraj (sweeper), Ankita Lokhande (former girlfriend), Mahesh Shetty (friend), Meetu Singh (sister) and Dr Chawra (doctor) in Mumbai.“Sushant was not only Bihar’s son, he was India’s son,” Pandey said.The DGP said the police team could not locate Rhea Chakarborty, the prime accused in the FIR filed by Sushant’s father in Patna. “The police team visited banks to gather details about the transactions. All evidence is being collected. The team also tried to collect CCTV footage, video clips, FSL report, medico-legal report, postmortem report and all related papers from the Mumbai police,” he said, adding that he would not talk about the investigation details at this stage as the matter was sub judice.Also Read: Mumbai police can’t be trusted to do a fair and impartial investigation: Tanushree DuttaRhea had earlier moved the Supreme Court, seeking transfer of FIR filed in Patna to Mumbai. Sources said the apex court could hear her plea on August 5. Both Bihar and Maharashtra governments have already filed caveats in SC that they should be heard before any order is passed on Rhea’s plea.The Enforcement Directorate (ED), which registered a money laundering case soon after the FIR was filed in Patna, has sought details of the financial transactions of the Vividrage Rheality in which Rhea is a director, and Front India For World, in which her brother Showik is a director.A senior official said that Bihar police had also questioned director Rumi Jafferry since he was going to do a film with Sushant and Rhea. Rumi had earlier claimed he knew about Sushant’s condition. The four-member Bihar Police team will also question the cast of Sushant’s last film.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-may-give-sushant-s-case-to-cbi-if-family-desires-sister-seeks-pm-modi-s-intervention/story-juHnaQEK6wQfZlp9vqaZfK.html
02-08-2020||India||China moves PLA battalion across India’s Lipulekh Pass. It’s a signal||China has mobilised a battalion strength of People’s Liberation Army soldiers near Uttarakhand’s Lipulekh Pass, one of the locations along the Line of Actual Control that have witnessed movement of Chinese troops over the last few weeks outside of the Ladakh sector, people familiar with the matter told Hindustan Times.India and China have been engaged in a standoff in East Ladakh beginning early May that flared up on June 15, leading to the bloodiest clash between soldiers from ṭwo sides in 45 years. Three weeks later, both sides agreed to start the disengagement and de-escalation of troops at the standoff points after a conversation between National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and Foreign Minister Wang Yi.ALSO WATCH | Rafale jets should worry those threatening India: Govt’s message to ChinaThere has been thinning of troops at the standoff points but the disengagement is still work in progress.Also Read: Army won’t take eyes off Ladakh, preps to shop for Siachen-like gear for troopsSimultaneously, Indian military officers in Ladakh noticed a huge effort by Chinese troops to bolster its strength in the depth areas, and give infrastructure projects on its side a hard push. Chinese troops have augmented its presence on its side of the LAC elsewhere too.“There has been accretion of PLA troops across the LAC at Lipulekh Pass, parts of North Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh,” a top military commander said.Lipulekh Pass, which falls on the Mansarovar Yatra route, has been in the headlines for the last few months after Nepal objected to a 80-km road built by India to the Himalayan pass. The Lipulekh Pass is also used for annual barter trade during June-October between tribal populations living on either side of the Indo-China LAC.Kathmandu escalated tensions with India this year after it changed its political map to count the Kalapani area including Lipulekh - which lies close to the tri-junction of India-China-Nepal - as its own.Also Read: China says it treats Nepal as an ‘equal’ in gushing exchange on 65th year of tiesAt Lipulekh Pass, PLA has moved a battalion - approximately a 1,000 soldiers - at some distance from the border.“It is a signal that the Chinese troops are prepared,” a second army officer said. He added that India has matched the strength of the PLA troops and is keeping a close watch on Nepal in context of its recent border claims.“The situation on the Line of Actual Control remains dynamic with the PLA trying to emphasise its presence beyond Ladakh by building infrastructure on their side of the LAC,” the top military commander quoted above said.In Ladakh and elsewhere, the troop movements and the mistrust has led the army to prepare to station soldiers in the icy heights of Ladakh through the winter irrespective of how the disengagement and de-escalation efforts pan out.The government has already sounded out its embassies in US, Russia and Europe to locate manufacturers of high-altitude clothing and snow tent manufacturers for emergency purchases. If it still falls short, the plan B is to divert stocks from locations such as Thoise, the base station for soldiers deployed in Siachen Glacier.“It looks unlikely that we would be able to take our eyes off the border,” said an army commander. Underscoring that this could be the only way for now to make Indian territory off-limits for an expansionist China and hold peace on the border.“After the PLA aggression, we don’t trust the Chinese and fear that they will come back again north of Pangong Tso as summer arrives in 2021,” said a military commander.Although the PLA has disengaged from patrolling points 14 (Galwan), 15-16 (Hot Springs), a smattering of adversary troops are still on forward location at patrolling point 17 A (Gogra) and withdrawal from all contested finger features is a distance away at the Pangong Tso.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-moves-pla-battalion-across-india-s-lipulekh-pass-it-s-a-signal/story-hnIx2metf8n3wTGZ63JEDO.html
02-08-2020||India||When these sons stood by a hapless mother||The COVID-19 pandemic increased the number of deprived people, and made it harder for those who were already struggling.But there’s good in the world and probably that’s what holds it together. An old woman in Rupnagar, Punjab, who has a neurological disorder, collects garbage to be able to look after her son who has a similar condition. A video showing her working, so hard, despite her condition, went viral. Hoshiarpur based fitness expert Mandeep Singh Manny and activist Ajaib Singh Goldy, located her and visited her home to provide her rations and financial aid.The fitness expert had come to his hometown from Italy before the lockdown and like many others got stuck here. For the past three months, he has been helping daily wagers, footpath vendors, migrant labourers with rations and essentials. For this woman and her son, he made extra efforts and provided them with essentials too.Mandeep says, “I saw a video on a social media site wherein I saw the plight of this woman and her son. Instinctively, I wanted to help her.”Social distancing and government restrictions had put many volunteers out of reach. However, motivated helpers have time and again found ways to serve others remotely.He adds, “I made an appeal on my social media and urged people to find the address of this mother-son duo. To my surprise, I got the address within a week. So my NGO, Humanity First, immediately got into action and provided them with ration and some money for their daily needs.”The NRI says, “We tend to get caught up in thinking that only medical personnel and first responders can make a meaningful difference during this crisis. Yet in the coronavirus era, simply reaching out to people is being helpful and heroic in small ways. We all can make a positive difference by tapping into our compassionate nature.”Mandeep has been getting the son and the mother treated at a hospital in Mohali. He says, “It is my duty to help anyone in need. And I will make sure that they are treated by the best doctors in India.”Coronavirus has enabled many people to take the time and space to evaluate their relationship with the world, people and themselves. Over three months, people have realised that it’s only kindness in the world that holds real importance. The pandemic has enabled people to take new perspectives on life with a renewed focus on meaningful experiences. In the latest development, Mandeep efforts have borne fruit and people have donated copious amounts for their treatment and also for the construction of a house for them. He says, “It is amazing how people have come together to help them. It makes me believe that kindness and compassion does exist in this world and I salute all these people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-these-sons-stood-by-a-hapless-mother/story-IvGCC3scHI4g4DSFTmGjLL.html
02-08-2020||India||Changing lives, one stitch at a time||The deadly pandemic brought life to a standstill for many. While some were extremely fortunate to have a roof on their head and the company of their loved ones, there are some who had to fight for survival with each passing day. The haplessness of these communities was given the attention it deserved by many social media initiatives and NGOs. A large number of tailors lost their livelihood in the pandemic. An initiative called Ek Chadar Meri Bhi is helping generate income for them.The program urges you to donate lightly used bed sheets to these tailors who will turn them into shopping bags which will also reduce carbon footprint. These bags will be sold to stores and will be available at a very nominal cost.Nidhi Sati, who donated a chadar for the project, says, “We all know how difficult it had become for these daily wage workers to survive during the pandemic. The roadside tailors and even the tailors at boutiques were rendered unemployed. Ek Chadar is an initiative for these tailors. With basic equipment, these people can earn from home. One double bedsheet can easily produce 20 bags.”She further adds, “I encouraged all my friends, neighbours and colleagues to pitch for this project. A friend of mine who owns a grocery store ordered about 150 bags today itself. People are coming forward to buy in bulk which is a great start.”Charanjeet Dhiman, project convenor, Anything Will Do NGO, that launched this initiative says, “As human beings, it’s our responsibility to help the most vulnerable amongst us in times of need. We will do everything in our capacity to help them.”Shobha, a karigar from Faridabad, says, “With this project, I earn a daily wage of Rs 500-600 which helps me buy my groceries and milk for my family. I learnt stitching as a kid and it has helped me wade through these times.” Dhiman has also been instrumental in feeding needy kids across India. He says, “With many kids going without the daily intake of milk, we decided to start the Milky Way project. We associated with milk booths that supplied milk to any needy person who came asking for it. So, any poor kid who came to get milk was given half a litre packet. We locked in some money with the booth well in advance so that the project could run smoothly. To maintain transparency, we encouraged the booth manager to click a picture with the person.”With the project, Anything Will Do fed milk to thousands of small children across India during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/changing-lives-one-stitch-at-a-time/story-amFg12TehZUIZGkl5uZiMN.html
