03-08-2020||India||Curfew imposed in Srinagar ahead of Aug 5||Srinagar: Authorities on Monday imposed a curfew in Srinagar until Wednesday fearing protests by separatists against the Centre’s move last year on August 5 to divest Jammu & Kashmir of its special status and to divide the state into two Union territories.In an order, Srinagar district magistrate Shahid Chaudhary quoted a police report, saying separatists and Pakistan-sponsored groups were planning to observe August 5 as a black day. “There are specific inputs about violent protests endangering public life and property,” he said. “The report has further made a case that to prevent such violence and loss of life and property, it is immanent to impose curfew in the district.”Chaudhary added such gatherings would also be detrimental to the efforts of containing Covid-19. The six-day Covid-19-related restrictions, which began from July 31, have also been extended up to August 8.Jammu & Kashmir on Monday reported 590 fresh Covid-19 cases and 11 deaths that took the toll from the infection to 407. A bulk of the fatalities —377—have been reported from the Kashmir Valley.Shaheena Akhtar, a 42-year-old Srinagar resident, said the severity of the pandemic-related restrictions suddenly intensified from Monday. She said the security forces manning the roads were harsher and even manhandled people. “My young daughter who was pillion riding was chased by baton-wielding security men at Hawal. They were really scared,” Akhtar said. “Since August 5 is coming, they are forcing people to stay indoors.”Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti’s daughter, Iltija, said security and surveillance in the Valley have suddenly been increased. “Not like non-discriminatory COVID virus will be more active in the days approaching 5th August, so clearly this is being done to ensure that anger & frustration felt by people here remain hidden,” she tweeted.Mufti was among hundreds of people detained in August last year as part of measures to prevent protests against the nullification of the Constitution’s Article 370 that stripped Jammu & Kashmir of its special status. Two other former chief ministers, Omar Abdullah and Farooq Abdullah who were also detained, have since been released.A communications blackout and a lockdown were also imposed in Jammu & Kashmir in August last year. Most of the restrictions have since been eased even as high-speed 4G internet services remain banned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/curfew-imposed-in-srinagar-ahead-of-aug-5/story-6JUNy41z1LOGluPcDSnedM.html
03-08-2020||India||Covid-19 positive Karnataka CM may have to stay in hospital for 8-10 days: Medical Education Minister||Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa who was admitted to a private hospital in Bangalore with Covid-19 symptoms around 11 pm on Sunday night is said to be doing well and is clinically stable according to a release from his office. A medical bulletin from Manipal Hospital where Yediyurappa has been admitted also said “at present, he is doing well and is clinically stable and appropriate treatment has been initiated as per current protocols. He is being treated and monitored closely by a multidisciplinary team of doctors”.The CM’s eldest daughter B Y Padmavati also tested positive and has been admitted to the same hospital. Yediyurappa later in the day released a video from his hospital suite where he reassured the people of the state that there was nothing to worry about his health and he would be discharged soon.In the one minute and thirty-six seconds video, 77-year-old Yediyurappa said, “I will be out of here at the earliest to resume work soon. I request for your good wishes and support. The health of six and a half crore people of the state is very important. I urge everyone to wear a mask and maintain social distancing. That is the only way to defeat Coronavirus.”Three of his cabinet colleagues including tourism minister C T Ravi, agriculture minister B C Patil, and forest minister Anand Singh had earlier tested positive for Covid-19. Former Prime Minister Deve Gowda, JDS leader H D Kumaraswamy, leader of opposition in assembly Siddaramiah and KPCC President D K Shivakumar all wished the CM a speedy recovery.In his video, the CM thanked all of them apart from BJP party chief J P Nadda, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, and various religious leaders for their wishes of a speedy recovery. Even as the CM expressed confidence in being discharged early, medical education minister Dr. K Sudhakar - a trained doctor himself - said that the CM may have to stay in the hospital for 8-10 days. All personnel at the CM’s office ‘Krishna’ and official residence ‘Kaveri’ were also tested and nine of them were found to be Covid positive including the driver and cook of the CM. All of them have been sent to Covid care centers. Both the office and residence were also fumigated on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-positive-karnataka-cm-may-have-to-stay-in-hospital-for-8-10-days-medical-education-minister/story-AEUjJCklv73g9pxH1sc7EK.html
03-08-2020||India||Andhra farmers’ body moves HC against formation of 3 capital cities||Hyderabad A farmers’ body in Andhra Pradesh has moved the high court challenging the formation of three capitals cities in the state. In its petition, the Rajadhani Rythu Parirakshana Samithi (farmers’ committee to safeguard the state capital) has sought a stay on the implementation of the gazette notifications issued by the state government in this regard on Friday. The gazette notifications were issued after governor Biswabhushan Harichandan gave his assent to the AP Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Bill, 2020 aimed at creating the three capital cities for the state and the AP Capital Region Development Authority (Repeal) Bill, 2020, seeking to abolish the APCRDA formed in December 2014 to develop Amaravati as the state capital. The petitioner challenged the notifications and requested that the high court stall the shifting of Raj Bhavan, Chief Minister’s Office and state secretariat from Amaravati to Visakhapatnam and the high court to Kurnool. The petitioner also questioned the legality of the recommendations of the experts committee, led by retired IAS officer G N Rao, and the high-power committee, comprising ministers and senior bureaucrats, following which the chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government took a decision on the three capitals. The high court has posted the case for hearing on Tuesday. The government, on Saturday, issued orders for abolishing the APCRDA, thereby de-notifying Amaravati as the capital region. The government has instead created Amaravati Metropolitan Region Development Authority (AMRDA). All the areas within the jurisdiction of hitherto capital will now fall under AMRDA. All assets, liabilities, agreements and concessions, which were handled by the APCRDA would now be vested with the new authority. According to the government order, the AMRDA would be headed by a chairperson and comprise 11 members, with secretary of the municipal administration and urban development department as the deputy chairperson and commissioner as the member-convenor. The authority will also include experts with knowledge of urban governance, urban planning, conservation, environment and transportation, the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-farmers-body-moves-hc-against-formation-of-3-capital-cities/story-0WKua5tovuVe69PebY0XRK.html
03-08-2020||India||Told Mumbai cops about threat to life: Actor’s father||Sushant Singh Rajput’s father alleged on Monday that the Mumbai Police were warned about threat to the actor’s in February but they failed to take note of it and also did not act on complaints after his death on June 14.Krishna Kishore Singh, who issued a video statement, recounted the sequence of events that led to his lodging a complaint with the police in Patna.“I had told the Mumbai Police in February that my son Sushant faced a threat to his life but it did nothing. When my son died on June 14, I requested them to take action against named persons. But nothing came of it even after 40 days. Left with no other option, I lodged a case at a police station here in Patna,” Singh said.Patna police swung into action immediately, Singh said. He thanked chief minister Nitish Kumar and state minister Sanjay Jha who came forward to “stand for the truth”.Singh, in his complaint on which an FIR was lodged on July 25, accused actress Rhea Chakraborty and her family members of abetting his son’s suicide, besides defrauding him of his money and subjecting him to blackmail.In a press note, the Mumbai Police rejected the claim by Rajput’s father and said they did not receive any written complaint about threat to the actor’s life.Back in Bihar, the demand for a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe resonated in the state assembly on Monday. The demand was first raised by Neeraj Kumar Singh Bablu, a BJP legislator and Rajput’s cousin, when members were allowed to speak on the subject by speaker Vijay Kumar Chaudhary after the passage of 12 bills by the House, which assembled for a truncated, day-long monsoon session.The demand was backed by leader of the opposition Tejashwi Yadav, Congress legislature party leader Sadanand Singh, and Raju Tiwari, an MLA of Ram Vilas Paswan’s LJP, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/told-mumbai-cops-about-threat-to-life-actor-s-father/story-0aYAPXfDKuHRIfkY40UpVO.html
03-08-2020||India||CM Yediyurappa stable, doing well: Govt||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa, who was admitted to a private hospital with Covid-19 symptoms around 11pm on Sunday night, is said to be doing well and is clinically stable according to a release from his office.A medical bulletin from Manipal Hospital, where Yediyurappa has been admitted, stated “At present, he is doing well and is clinically stable. Appropriate treatment has been initiated as per current protocols. He is being treated and monitored closely by a multidisciplinary team of doctors.”The CM’s eldest daughter, BY Padmavati, has also tested positive for Covid-19 and admitted to the same hospital. Yediyurappa, later in the day, released a video from his hospital suite, reassuring the people of the state that there was nothing to worry about his health and he would be discharged soon.In the one minute and thirty-six-second video, 77-year-old Yediyurappa said, “I will be out of here at the earliest to resume work soon. I request for your good wishes and support. The health of six and a half crore people of the state is very important. I urge everyone to wear a mask and maintain social distancing. That is the only way to defeat coronavirus.”Former Prime Minister Deve Gowda, Janata Dal (Secular) leader HD Kumaraswamy, leader of opposition in assembly Siddaramiah and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar wished the CM a speedy recovery.In his video, the CM namechecked the leaders, including Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) party chief JP Nadda, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and various religious leaders, who had also wished him a speedy recovery. Even as the CM expressed confidence in being discharged early, medical education minister Dr K Sudhakar said that the CM may have to stay in the hospital for 8-10 days.Three of his cabinet colleagues — tourism minister CT Ravi, agriculture minister BC Patil and forest minister Anand Singh — had earlier tested positive for Covid-19.All personnel at the CM’s office ‘Krishna’ and official residence ‘Kaveri’ were also tested and nine of them, including the driver and cook of the CM, were found to be positive. All of them have been sent to Covid care centres. Both the office and residence were also fumigated on Monday.Others who had come in contact with the CM, including several cabinet colleagues, the governor and senior bureaucrats, are being tested for the virus. Senior government officials said that the CM is monitoring various developments across the state from the hospital itself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-yediyurappa-stable-doing-well-govt/story-q3lANzk1XQ3bEhJo8kg9UO.html
03-08-2020||India||Centre may extend deadline for emergency capital loans||New Delhi: The Union government may extend the October 31 deadline to avail the emergency working capital loan facility -- worth a total of Rs 3 lakh crore -- for small enterprises and individual professionals to help them tide over the crisis triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic, according to two officials with direct knowledge of the matter. The government has already extended the scope of the provision by enhancing eligibility criteria to include larger units and individual professionals such as doctors and chartered accountants. The proposal to continue the scheme beyond October is also under active consideration, the officials said on condition of anonymity. The Union Cabinet on May 20, 2020 approved an Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) for about five months ending October 31.The scheme provides for an easy additional working capital loan at a concessional rate of interest to an existing borrower who is not a defaulter. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday expanded its scope at the request of industry in line with the revised definition of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and the cap on funding under the scheme doubled from Rs 5 crore to Rs 10 crore. Apart from industrial units with turnover up to Rs 250 crore (earlier cap was Rs 100 crore), the finance minister extended the facility to individual professionals. HT reported the development on Sunday. The National Credit Guarantee Trustee Company Ltd (NCGTC), which issued the operational guidelines of ECLGS on June 2, said the interest rate under the scheme is capped at 9.25% per annum for banks and financial institutions. For non-banking finance companies (NBFCs), the interest rate should not exceed 14% per annum. NCGTC is a wholly owned company of the Union government formed in March 2014 to act as a trustee for multiple credit guarantee funds. Divakar Vijayasarathy, founder and managing partner at consultancy firm DVS Advisors LLP said, “With most of the states still under various stages of lockdown and vaccine expected only by the year-end, it would definitely make sense for the government to extend the deadline. Once the demand picks up, there would be lot more takers for this scheme.” In the last two months, over Rs 1.36 lakh crore, less than 50% of Rs 3 lakh crore, was sanctioned by banks and NBFCs, and only Rs 87,227 crore could be disbursed under the scheme. The government expects Rs 1 lakh crore loan offtake by newly eligible individual professionals. Some headroom may still remain, which could prompt the government to extend the deadline, one of the officials quoted above said. Kapil Rana, chartered accountant and founder of HostBooks Ltd, a cloud-based accounting platform, said the deadline should be extended as the pandemic situation has not completely normalised, and several people have not resumed their businesses. “Extension of the deadline will benefit to the SME’s [small and medium enterprises] who have not yet availed the facilities,” he said. “The intention of the government was to provide ease in cash flow. However, till now, the sanction and disbursement are not up to the expected level,” he added. Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC) chairman A Sakthivel, meanwhile, proposed removing the turnover criterion completely for exporters. “While turnover of exporters may seem large due to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, the thin margin on which they work and the perishable nature of their products make them vulnerable to any changes in export orders and delay in shipment, which is clearly evident during the ongoing crisis,” he said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-may-extend-deadline-for-emergency-capital-loans/story-8svUPMjK9KydbUpxkSSm3J.html
03-08-2020||India||Security forces launch search op after soldier goes missing||Srinagar: A 24-year-old Territorial Army rifleman went missing on Sunday while he was on his way home in Jammu and Kashmir’s Shopian district, the army said on Monday. Security forces have launched a joint operation to trace him fearing that he may have been abducted after his abandoned vehicle was found torched.“The abandoned burnt car of [Rifleman Shakir] Manzoor has been found near Kulgam. It is suspected that the soldier has been abducted by terrorists. The search operation is in progress,” the army said in a statement. It added Manzoor belongs to Territorial Army’s 162 Battalion and that the operation to trace him has been launched in Kulgam and neighbouring Shopian district.Manzoor, who joined the Territorial Army in 2018 and is currently deployed with Rashtriya Rifles, went missing after some unidentified people stopped and set his private vehicle afire at Rambhama village in Kulgam district on Sunday evening. The Army suspects militants operating in South Kashmir could behind his abduction.Manzoor’s family said he was on leave. The Jammu & Kashmir police said they have questioned some people near the spot, where the vehicle was found and put up checkpoints across the areas, where they fear the soldier could have been taken.Terrorists have over the years targeted soldiers on leave in Kashmir. Lieutenant Ummer Fayaz, a 22-year-old Army officer, was abducted from Shopian while he was on leave and killed in May 2017 a year after he was commissioned.Aurangzeb, an army jawan posted in South Kashmir’s Shadimurg, was abducted and killed soon after he left the 44 Rashtriya Rifles camp in June 2018. He was on his way home in Poonch for Eid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-forces-launch-search-op-after-soldier-goes-missing/story-qbfefc6uTdvnRMnUMiwRxM.html
03-08-2020||India||Bhushan refuses to apologise for tweets||New Delhi: Lawyer Prashant Bhushan, citing freedom of speech, has refused to apologise for two tweets in June, one of which accused the judiciary of destroying democracy and the other criticised the current Chief Justice of India for keeping the courts shut during the Covid-19 lockdown.In an affidavit filed on Sunday in response to the suo motu (on its own) contempt proceedings initiated against him by the Supreme Court over the tweets on July 22, Bhushan said : “Such expression of opinion however outspoken, disagreeable or however unpalatable to some, cannot constitute contempt of court. This proposition has been laid down by several judgments of this court and in foreign jurisdictions such as Britain, US and Canada.” Bhushan also cited the speeches on dissent made by Supreme Court judges DY Chandrachud and Deepak Gupta, who retired in May, in February. “Justice DY Chandrachud, while delivering the 15th P D Desai Memorial Lecture in the Gujarat High Court on February 15, expressed his anguish at the manner in which dissent was labelled as anti-national.”A three-judge bench on July 22 issued a notice to Bhushan over the tweets and directed him to respond by August 5. The first tweet, which was reproduced in the court order, said: “When historians in the future look back at the last six years to see how democracy has been destroyed in India even without a formal Emergency, they will particularly mark the role of the SC in this destruction, and more particularly the role of the last four CJIs.”In his affidavit, he explained this as his “bonafide opinion, which people can and may disagree with” but added that “in any healthy democracy, there needs to be free and frank discussion about the role of every institution”. The second tweet referred to the incumbent Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde. It was also cited in the order and said: “The CJI rides a Rs 50-lakh motorcycle belonging to a BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] leader at Raj Bhavan, Nagpur, without wearing a mask or helmet, at a time when he keeps the SC on lockdown mode denying citizens their fundamental right to access justice!”Bhushan, in his affidavit, regretted saying Bobde was not wearing a helmet. He added he failed to notice the bike was stationary and that the CJI was not riding, but merely sitting on it. “...I admit that I did not notice that the bike was on a stand and, therefore, wearing a helmet was not required. I, therefore, regret that part of my tweet. However, I stand by the remaining part of what I have stated in my tweet.” He sought to explain in his affidavit that criticism of the CJI doesn’t mean criticism of the court itself. The next hearing of the case is set for August 5. The two tweets in question have been disabled by Twitter Inc after it was made a party to the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhushan-refuses-to-apologise-for-tweets/story-gAs6tZmSJb3Sk10UMaaIlJ.html
03-08-2020||India||Let India appoint lawyer for Jadhav: Pakistan HC||Islamabad/New Delhi: A Pakistani court on Monday directed the government to inform India to appoint a lawyer for Kulbhushan Jadhav, the former Indian Navy officer sentenced to death for alleged involvement in spying, in order to file a review petition against his conviction.A two-judge bench of the Islamabad high court headed by chief justice Athar Minallah also directed the Pakistan government to again inform Jadhav, 50, of his rights under the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations and the International Court of Justice’s (ICJ) order of 2019 staying his execution and calling for a review of his conviction.Referring to an ordinance promulgated by Pakistan to give effect to ICJ’s order, the bench said: “He shall be specifically informed regarding his right to avail the statutory remedy provided under the Ordinance of 2020 and to authorise the Government of India to arrange legal representation on his behalf.”The judges ordered the formation of a larger bench to hear the case in view of its importance and adjourned the matter till September 3.Pakistan’s attorney general Khalid Jawed Khan told the media after Monday’s hearing the high court had said Jadhav would be given a second chance to engage a lawyer. “The federal government also wants that he should himself engage a lawyer,” Khan said, speaking in Urdu. Asked by reporters whether Indian lawyers could appear in the Islamabad high court on behalf of Jadhav, Khan said “only Pakistani lawyers and those who are entitled to practice in Pakistan” can be appointed. In response to another question on whether Indian lawyers could assist any Pakistani counsel engaged for Jadhav, he said, “This option has not been considered as of now.” There was no immediate response from Indian officials to the development. The high court also appointed three senior lawyers – Abid Hassan Manto, Hamid Khan and former attorney general Makhdoom Ali Khan – as amici curiae or “friends of the court” to “ensure that the judgement of the [ICJ] is effectively implemented”. In its order, the high court further said it expected Jadhav’s right to a fair trial “will be respected and utmost care will be exercised while making statements,...reporting by print and electronic media or otherwise commenting on or relating to the proceedings”. Before joining the Islamabad high court, Minallah was a leading lawyer and played a key role in the lawyers’ movement against former dictator Pervez Musharraf. Some of his rulings have gone against the military establishment. India recently said Pakistan had blocked all its efforts to seek remedies in the case of Jadhav, who was arrested by Pakistani security agencies in Balochistan in March 2016 and charged with involvement in spying. India rejected these allegations and said he was kidnapped by Pakistani operatives from the Iranian port of Chabahar, where he was running a business. The Pakistan government has promulgated the International Court of Justice (Review and Reconsideration) Ordinance 2020 to allow Jadhav to appeal against the death sentence given to him by a military court in 2017. The ordinance was recently tabled in Parliament for approval. External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a virtual weekly news briefing last week that Pakistan had systematically blocked all of India’s attempts to seek remedies for Jadhav. He also accused Pakistan of violating the 2019 judgement of ICJ, which called for an effective review and reconsideration of the conviction and sentencing of Jadhav. India has also accused Pakistan of not providing unhindered, unimpeded and unconditional access to Jadhav or the official documents needed for filing a review petition. “We reserve our position in this matter, which includes the right to avail of further remedies. I’ll also reiterate that we stand committed to protect the life of our national Kulbhushan Jadhav,” Srivastava had said last week. On July 22, the Pakistan government petitioned the Islamabad high court to appoint a lawyer to represent Jadhav. The petition contended Jadhav was made aware of his rights but had refused to file a review petition against his sentence and that India had “not demonstrated a bonafide serious intent” to avail of remedies. However, India dismissed the contentions made in this petition and said a Pakistani lawyer appointed by it had been unable to file a review petition on July 18 as he wasn’t provided the necessary documents by Pakistani authorities. Indian officials had also walked out of a meeting with Jadhav on July 16 after Pakistan breached assurances of providing unimpeded consular access.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/let-india-appoint-lawyer-for-jadhav-pakistan-hc/story-6PJ24luh1z7NCkBiJgJg2M.html
03-08-2020||India||Lockdown dates change in Bengal for the fourth time since July 28||The Mamata Banerjee-led administration in West Bengal changed the bi-weekly lockdown dates once again on Monday keeping the number of lockdown-days the same. This is the fourth time that the dates have been changed since July 28, when the dates were first announced. The government, however, didn’t change the August 5 date, which coincides with the Ram Temple Bhoomi Pujan at Ayodhya. Earlier on Monday, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Bengal unit had urged the state government to withdraw the lockdown restrictions on August 5. Trinamool Congress leaders, however, had claimed that the program was to be telecast live and people can watch it on television at home. The new lockdown dates announced on Monday are August 5, 8, 20, 21, 27, 28 and 31. Earlier the dates were August 5, 8, 16, 17, 23, 24 and 31. It was on July 28, that Banerjee for the first time told the media at the state secretariat that bi-weekly lockdown would be enforced on weekends barring August 1 and August 15. Minutes later she changed the dates. Late at night, on the same day, the home department tweeted changing the dates further and bringing down the number of days from nine to seven. It said that the government had received appeals and requests from different quarters. A few days later the state erroneously changed one date, but was quick to publish a clarification rectifying it. On Monday, the state government again said that it has received “several requests and appeals” to relax complete lockdown on certain dates which are coinciding with some festivals and local community based customs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-dates-change-in-bengal-for-the-fourth-time-since-july-28/story-aBkf7DZRzAUcg9EPbyXCHO.html
03-08-2020||India||Maoist landmine kills two tribals in forest area of Visakhapatnam||Two Adivasis were killed after they stepped on a landmine allegedly planted by outlawed Maoists in Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam district on Monday afternoon, police said. The incident took place in the forests of Kondru tribal hamlet under Injari gram panchayat limits of Pedabayalu block at around 4 pm. The deceased were identified as Mondipalli Ajay Kumar and Mondipalli Mohan Rao of Jamiguda tribal hamlet of Chintalaveedi gram panchayat. According to the police, the two tribal youth had gone into the forest in search of some cattle which were missing from the herd after grazing. “They accidentally stepped on a mine planted under the soil on the thoroughfare. It exploded, killing both of them on the spot,” Pedyabayalu sub-inspector of police Raja Rao said.He said there was specific information that the landmine was planted by the Maoists targeting the security forces combing in the area for the last few days. “We came to know that the Maoists had planted landmines in the Kondru forest area and our forces have been avoiding the route in the last two days,” the SI said. The two tribal youth, who were unaware of the landmines, ventured into the forest in search of cattle. “We suspect it to be a pressure mine, rather than remote-controlled sensor mine, as the Maoists use the latter only on seeing the combing police forces,” Raja Rao said. The bodies were still lying in the village, as the police did not go there because of Maoist threat. “The village is located deep in the interior and inaccessible by road. We shall shift the bodies to the hospital for post-mortem on Tuesday,” the SI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoist-landmine-kills-two-tribals-in-forest-area-of-visakhapatnam/story-UOqETMeQz6EMELLsNkdnIN.html
03-08-2020||India||‘Mumbai has lost humanity’: Amruta Fadnavis tweets on Sushant case; Sena, NCP hit back||Amruta Fadnavis, the wife of former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, on Monday tweeted that Mumbai had lost its “humanity” and was “no more safe to live” looking at the way the metropolis’ police was handling the Sushant Singh Rajput case.The tweet invited a backlash from Shiv Sena and NCP leaders who claimed Amruta Fadnavis was criticising the same police force of which she is a protectee.“The manner in which Sushant Singh Rajput Death Case is being handled-I feel Mumbai has lost humanity & is no more safe to live for innocent, self respecting citizens,” Amruta Fadnavis tweeted.Hitting back, Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP Priyanka Chaturvedi took to Twitter and said, “Roams around with Mumbai police security and car” and added a personal slight by tweeting further that the men in khakhi were the “only audience forced to listen to her out of tune songs”.Chaturvedi tweeted, “I challenge these state BJP leaders & their political aspiration bearing family accusingMumbai Police & defaming them, to give up their police security go for private agencies who can make them feel safe in the city. As wife of fmr CM who was also HM to speak this way is shameful.” NCP spokesperson Aditi Nalawde dug out an earlier photograph of Amruta Fadnavis sitting on the edge of a ship during a launch ceremony and tweeted “she should not forget that when she was sitting dangerously at the corner of a cruise ship, it was a Mumbai police personnel guarding her” Nalawde further alleged that Amruta Fadnavis was only interested in opening police salary accounts in the private bank where she worked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-has-lost-humanity-amruta-fadnavis-tweets-on-sushant-case-sena-ncp-hit-back/story-e15JSq3O9TwJX8T3spqQfO.html
03-08-2020||India||In Ayodhya, another priest tests Covid-19 positive, head priest says he’s worried||One more priest has tested positive for Covid-19 just two days before the grand ceremony for laying the foundation stone for the proposed Ram Temple is to be held. Confirming this, the 82-year-old head priest, Satyendra Das told Hindustan Times that he was a bit worried.“Of course it is worrying,” he said, speaking to HT on the phone. “Prem Kumar Tiwari is part of the team that conducts the daily rituals here at the site.” Just last week, another priest called Pradeep Das from the team had also tested positive and all those who were in contact with him were quarantined. Three fire officials who were posted at the temple site had also tested positive for the disease.“We all stay in the same area in the mandir. I also have some other conditions and I’m not a young man,” he said. ALSO READ | Silver paan, gift from Varanasi, to be used in Ram temple ceremony on August 5According to the trust officials, there were large numbers of temple priests and other workers who were tested for Covid-19, including the head priest himself.However, senior district officials played down the importance of today’s developments. “We have tested a large number of people and we are taking all precautions. I don’t think this event has any risks at all,” he said.“We had all the major festivals- we’ve had Ram Navami celebrations in April, we’ve celebrated Eid, so why should we not be able to celebrate this,” said Prakash Sharma, who works with the trust.However, Covid-19 fears have already caused others to drop out. Despite having been invited, Waqf Board Chairman Zafar Ahamad Farooqui’s spokesperson said that he wasn’t feeling well since he returned from Ayodhya the previous day.“Yes, the chairman has got an invite. However, he returned from Ayodhya yesterday where the land papers were handed over and since then he hasn’t been feeling well. It’s not Covid-19 possibly as he had surgery, but he won’t be travelling,” said Athar Hussain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-ayodhya-another-priest-tests-covid-19-positive-head-priest-says-he-s-worried/story-WHA5g8knMFTxEavAWtDfmL.html
03-08-2020||India||Bihar police team in Mumbai used BJP office bearer’s luxury car, claims Sena MP||Amid a raging controversy over a Patna police team’s visit to Mumbai to probe the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, a Shiv Sena MP has accused the Bihar police of acting at the behest of the BJP.“People can understand what’s going on. Why did Bihar Police travel in BMW? They travelled in Jaguar. Whose vehicles were those? The BMW belonged to a BJP office-bearer. If Bihar Police travels in it, you can understand the politics,” ANI quoted Shiv Sena’s Lok Sabha MP Arvind Sawant as saying.The Patna police team has drawn attention to itself travelling in luxury cars during its probe in Mumbai. The Maharashtra government has said it has no plans of handing over the probe to the CBI as the opposition BJP has been demanding.“The Mumbai Police are probing into the matter in a very professional manner,” Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmuklh told reporters in Mumbai.Earlier Monday, Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh said Rajput’s family did not complain about any lapse in the investigation being carried by Mumbai Police into his death in June. Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis questioned why the Patna police team was being obstructed from doing its duty.He particularly criticized the Maharashtra government for sending a Bihar police officer into quarantine on his arrival in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-police-team-in-mumbai-used-bjp-office-bearer-s-luxury-car-claims-sena-mp/story-aDjGyhkWzEWn4wn5okDoYP.html
03-08-2020||India||Congress didn’t want resolution of Ram Janmabhoomi land dispute: Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath here on Monday attacked the Congress, alleging that it did not want an end to the Babri Masjid-Ram Janmabhoomi site dispute. Adityanath, who was is Ayodhya to take stock of the preparations for the “bhoomi pujan” of the Ram temple here on August 5, also asked the opposition party to introspect, saying the construction of the temple should have started soon after the Independence. But when the power becomes more important for people than the country, they play with the emotions of the public for their political games; divide society on caste, creed and religion, he said, adding that the Congress did not “want the dispute to end”. Even a leader of the Opposition party had filed a petition in the apex court contending the issue “should not be resolved before the 2019 elections”, the CM claimed. The chief minister also termed November 9, 2019 a historic day when the Supreme Court paved a way for the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya. He claimed that now “pseudo-secularism and politics of caste, creed and religion has ended for always”. The chief minister said when Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation of a grand Ram temple on August 5, it will be a historic and emotional moment for all. Besides, it will also be an opportunity to lay the foundation of a new India, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-didn-t-want-resolution-of-ram-janmabhoomi-land-dispute-adityanath/story-UeCodqsJ0RMTTNe6R35IFK.html
03-08-2020||India||341 cases, 3 deaths in Aurangabad, count nears 15,000-mark||The Covid-19 count in Maharashtra’s Aurangabad reached 14,894 on Monday as 341 people were detected with coronavirus infection, while three deaths took the toll to 487, an official said.The number of people discharged during the day was 328, including 172 from the district’s rural parts, taking the number of such cases to 11,229, he said.There are 3,178 active cases in Aurangabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/341-cases-3-deaths-in-aurangabad-count-nears-15-000-mark/story-mlRyYjrNGQbUi6B5DHMQZO.html
03-08-2020||India||Stones from Karnataka’s Anjanadri Hill to be used for building Ayodhya’s Ram Temple||Stones from Karnataka’s Anjanadri Hill will be used in the construction of the Ram Temple at Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh according to Bellary MLA Somashekara Reddy. Anjanadri Hill located on the outskirts of Hampi in Bellary district is believed to be the birthplace of Lord Hanuman, the foremost devotee of Lord Ram.It is also believed that Lord Ram stayed here along with Hanuman and Sugreeva while in exile and on his way to Lanka.Reddy who is an MLA of the ruling BJP in the state said that it was only appropriate that stones at least symbolically from Hanuman’s birthplace would be used in the construction of Lord Ram’s temple.Meanwhile, eight eminent religious heads and personalities of the state have been specially invited by the Ram Janamabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust to attend the Bhoomi Pujan. These include Udupi Pejwar Mutt Seer Vishwa Prasanna Teertha, President of ISKCON Bangalore, Madhu Pandita Dasa, the junior pontiff of Sringeri Mutt Parama Pujaya Sri Vidushekara Bharati, the Dharmadhikari of Dhamasthala Dr Veerendra Heggade, Suttur Mutt’s Jagadguru Sri Shivarathari Deshikendra Swamiji, Art of Living’s Sri Sri Ravishankar, Pontiff of Adichunchungiri Mutt Nirmalananda Swamiji and Madara Chennaih Swamiji of Chitradurga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stones-from-karnataka-s-anjanadri-hill-to-be-used-for-building-ayodhya-s-ram-temple/story-0APsJbLEn0hP1GL60LklwO.html
03-08-2020||India||Curfew ordered in Jammu-Kashmir’s Srinagar till August 5 over intel reports of ‘violent protests’||Fearing violent protests from separatists on the first anniversary of the revocation of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir on August 5, the Srinagar administration on Monday evening imposed curfew till Wednesday with immediate effect.Additionally, the Covid-19 related restrictions, which were imposed from July 31 till August 5, have been extended till August 8. August 5 will mark a year of abrogation of Article 370 and Article 35A, ending the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. Article 370 and Article 35A, for close to seven decades, have defined the state’s relationship with the Union, were effectively rendered null and void on August 5.According to the officials, separatists and Pakistan sponsored groups are planning to observe August 5 as black day, raising apprehensions of violence. Also read | Jammu and Kashmir: Now a territory of the Union“ There are specific inputs about violent protests endangering public life and property,” an order issued by district magistrate Srinagar Shahid Chaudhary quoting a report of SSP Srinagar stated. He said such gatherings would also be detrimental to the efforts of containing Covid-19. “The report has further made a case that to prevent such violence and loss of life and property, it is essential to impose curfew in the district,” the DM said, ordering complete restrictions on public movement and curfew in the district.Business establishments, markets and shops were closed while public transport was off the roads. The movement of people was strictly regulated and there was heavy development of security forces on roads.Also read: It’s historic, says Amit Shah as Rajya Sabha strips Kashmir of special statusFormer chief minister Omar Abdullah said he expects restrictions across the Kashmir valley.“The preparations start a full 24 hours earlier this year compared to 2019 with Srinagar, and I presume the same is being done across the valley, being placed under strict curfew from tonight for the next two days,” he tweeted.Concertina wires and road blocks sealed roads at many locations and at places police were seen asking motorists to turn back.Shaeena Akhtar, a 42-year-old woman of Old City, said that the severity of restrictions which used to be associated with Covid-19 pandemic suddenly intensified from Monday. She said that the security forces on roads were harsher and even manhandled people.“My young daughter who was pillion riding behind a close relative was chased by baton-wielding security men at Hawal. They were really scared,” Akhtar said. “Since August 5 is coming, they are forcing people to stay indoors,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-year-of-abrogation-of-article-370-curfew-in-srinagar-to-prevent-protests-on-august-5/story-IgSoq6GJMWjcTpgBsEVuNI.html
03-08-2020||India||Three-day vedic rituals begin at Ram Janmabhoomi ahead of bhoomi pujan||Vedic rituals for the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya began on Monday morning with ‘Gauri Ganesh’ puja. Twenty-one priests started three-day rituals at 9.30am which continued for two hours. Eight priests from Ayodhya, five each from Varanasi and Delhi, and three from Kamikochi, Tamil Nadu performed Vedic rituals. Swami Govind Dev Giri Maharaj presided over the rituals. “The ceremony began with ‘Garui Ganesh’ puja as per Hindu tradition. Before any auspicious work, lord Ganesh is worshipped. So, before construction of Ram Mandir, this ritual was performed,” said Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, successor designate of Mahant Nritya Gopal Das. Nritya Gopal Das is chairman of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust. “Ganesh puja continued for two hours. On Tuesday Ramacharya puja will be performed and on the last day (August 5) bhoomi pujan will take place,” added Das. The entire Ram Janmabhoomi campus was decked up with saffron flags and marigold flowers. However, no media was allowed. These rituals will end on August 5 when Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone (bhoomi pujan) of the Ram temple at around 12.15 pm. All rituals were performed at the place where the sanctum sanctorum of the proposed Ram Mandir will come up. Special puja was also performed at pre-fabricated Ram Mandir at the Ram Janmabhoomi. “Apart from routine puja, a special ‘arti’ of lord Ram was performed at the Ram Mandir (pre-fabricated). Lord Ram’s arti was performed along with other rituals,” added Das. At the Ram Janmabhoomi area, a waterproof pandal was set up as a precautionary measure in view of the ongoing monsoon season. Entire Ayodhya is decked with saffron flags. Most of the households have put up these flags to mark the bhoomi pujan. In all temples across Ayodhya special puja was performed simultaneously on Monday morning to coincide with the rituals at Ram Janmabhoomi. “In all temples, big and small, across Ayodhya special puja was performed. In these temples Vedic rituals will be performed till bhoomi pujan at Ram Janmabhoomi,” said Das. At the historic Hanuman Garhi temple, a special aarti of lord Hanuman was also performed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-day-vedic-rituals-begin-at-ram-janmabhoomi-ahead-of-bhoomi-pujan/story-MOkwP8TnnyWGbdQDlZHsPI.html
03-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Opposition piles pressure on Kerala CM to quit over gold smuggling case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Opposition piles pressure on Kerala CM to quit over gold smuggling caseOpposition parties have stepped up pressure on Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to quit owning moral responsibility as details of the gold smuggling case began to emerge. A day after Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan sat on a dharna in Delhi, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala held a day-long fast in the state capital on Monday seeking Vijayan’s resignation. Read morePak army tries to corner Supreme Court’s tough judge. It is worried about 2023Prime Minister Imran Khan and the army’s joint effort to embarrass and oust Supreme Court judge Qazi Faez Isa is driven by the establishment’s 2023 worry when the judge, who has taken a tough line on the army, is slated to be elevated as the country’s Chief Justice. Read morePakistan court allows India to appoint lawyer for Kulbhushan JadhavThe Islamabad high court on Monday adjourned the hearing in the Kulbushan Jadhav case till September 3, saying India should be given a chance to appoint a lawyer to defend the former Indian Navy commander sentenced to death for alleged involvement in a spying case. Read more‘Rahul Dravid won’t succeed, I was told’In fact, Singh was appointed the chief coach of India’s Under-16 and Under-19 teams back in the day and he recalled spotting youngsters such as VVS Laxman and Rahul Dravid, who would go on to become champion cricketers and later become legends of Indian cricket. Read moreSushant Singh Rajput’s father releases video appeal: ‘Alerted Mumbai Police in February my son’s life in danger’Actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s father, KK Singh, has released a video statement saying that he had alerted the Mumbai Police on February 25 that his son’s life was in danger. Read moreWhatsApp gets green chit to rollout UPI payment service in IndiaThis was mentioned in an affidavit, which was filed by RBI in June, stating that it was satisfied with WhatsApp’s compliance with data storage rules and can bring Unified Payments Interface (UPI) to everyone. Read moreRam temple: Babri litigant Iqbal Ansari gets invite, says ‘Lord’s wish’Iqbal Ansari, one of the litigants in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid dispute, has been invited for the August 5 event. Iqbal, the son of Hashim Ansari, one of the original litigants in the case, said that it was the wish of Hindu god Ram that he be one of the first people to get an invite. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-opposition-piles-pressure-on-kerala-cm-to-quit-over-gold-smuggling-case-and-all-the-latest-news/story-2RJnJPN6mdkXJdP7Md2RWM.html
03-08-2020||India||Puri resident files PIL in Orissa High Court, seeks reopening of Jagannath Temple||More than four months after it was shut due to the Covid-19 pandemic, a public interest litigation was filed in the Orissa High Court on Monday seeking reopening of the 12th century Jagannath Temple in Puri for devotees.In his PIL, Trilochan Rath, a resident of Puri argued if malls and other commercial establishments can be allowed to open up, why should temples remain closed for devotees. “The temple can be opened while maintaining social distance and wearing masks,” he said. Rath prayed that along with Puri’s Jagannath Temple, all temples in Odisha should be opened for devotees to offer prayers. In another PIL, 15 servitors of ‘Maa Mangala’ shrine at Kakatpur area of Puri too approached the Orissa High Court seeking opening of the temple and demanded financial assistance of Rs 5,000 for the temple servitors.In both the PILs, the petitioners have said that closure of the temples had created immense hardships to all servitors across the state. “The servitors usually depend on the devotees to eke out their living. They earn by providing services to the devotees. With no devotees being allowed to visit the temple, the servitors are left with no income,” said the PIL.Jagannath Temple, the most popular religious shrine in Odisha, has been shut for devotees since March 20 just before the lockdown started. The Rath Yatra festival in June was held without the presence of common devotees with temple servitors pulling the three wooden chariots after the Supreme Court passed an order. Though the Centre allowed opening of the temple, an ASI-protected monument in June, Odisha has preferred to keep it closed apprehensive of the rise in Covid-19 cases once devotees start thronging to it.In its latest order issued on July 31, the Odisha government allowed gyms and shopping malls to open with certain SOPs, but said religious places would continue to be shut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puri-resident-files-pil-in-orissa-high-court-seeks-reopening-of-jagannath-temple/story-MU5xwysQRfS28pmezBgGVP.html
03-08-2020||India||PM Modi, President Ghani discuss evolving security situation, terrorism in region||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Ashraf Ghani on Monday discussed the evolving security situation in the region against the backdrop of a spike in terrorist violence in Afghanistan. The two leaders had a phone conversation and exchanged greetings on the occasion of Eid-ul-Azha. Ghani thanked Modi for timely supply of food and medical assistance to meet Afghanistan’s requirements, according to an official statement. “The two leaders also exchanged views on the evolving security situation in the region and other areas of mutual bilateral interest,” the statement said, adding Modi had reiterated India’s commitment to the Afghan people “in their quest for a peaceful, prosperous and inclusive Afghanistan”. The phone conversation coincided with a meeting in Kabul between Afghan National Security Adviser Hamdullah Mohib and Indian ambassador Vinay Kumar. Kumar spoke of India’s continued help for Afghanistan to counter the Covid-19 pandemic, and Mohib thanked India for its support and affirmed Afghanistan’s “strong commitment to the bilateral partnership”, the Afghan National Security Council said. The contacts between the two sides came a week after Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi chaired a virtual meeting with his counterparts from Afghanistan, Nepal and Pakistan and called for “four-party cooperation”, including on the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC). Wang also said Kathmandu and Kabul should learn from China-Pakistan cooperation and the four countries should work together to extend CPEC to Afghanistan. The meeting, held against the backdrop of the China-India border standoff, was viewed warily in New Delhi. India also has serious concerns about the spike in terrorist violence in Afghanistan and the role being played by Pakistan in the Afghan peace process. Days after a report by a UN expert team monitoring the implementation of sanctions against banned terror groups and individuals said almost 6,500 Pakistani terrorists were present in Afghanistan, acting Afghan interior minister Masoud Andarabi said on Monday that the new leader of the Khorasan unit of Islamic State was a member of the Pakistan-based Haqqani Network. “Shahab Almahajir, the newly appointed leader of Islamic State of Khorasan Province-ISKP is a Haqani member. Haqani & the Taliban carry out their terrorism on a daily basis across Afg & when their terrorist activities [do] not suit them politically they rebrand it under ISKP,” Andarabi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-president-ghani-discuss-evolving-security-situation-terrorism-in-region/story-QuXoIZwT2sJFNpDqGDqaOO.html
03-08-2020||India||ONGC seals leaking gas pipeline in Assam, averts major incident||A major incident was averted at Assam’s Sibsagar district on Monday after the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) quickly sealed a natural gas pipeline that had suffered a leakage.“The incident took place at a place called Geleki in Nazira. There was a leakage in a natural gas pipeline of ONGC in the afternoon and it was plugged within an hour. There was no major damage and no one was injured or evacuated,” said Sampriti Goswami, sub-divisional officer (civil), Nazira. According to local reports, the incident took place at ONGC’s Rig No-2 at Seuj Chapori in Geleki. There were reports of a loud explosion due to the leakage. Officials of ONGC could not be contacted to confirm it. Monday’s incident, which happened more than two months after a natural gas well of Oil India Limited (OIL) had a blow out in May and caught fire in June at Baghjan in Tinsukia district, had led to worries that something similar had happened. The Baghjan fire is still blazing. “The leakage was substantial and there was some sound as well. But thankfully nothing major happened. Unlike what’s being reported, the incident didn’t happen close to a residential area and there were no evacuations,” said Goswami.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ongc-seals-leaking-gas-pipeline-in-assam-averts-major-incident/story-KTJt719NNAjuWenCYehW3J.html
03-08-2020||India||India eyeing Rs 1.75 lakh crore in turnover in defence manufacturing by 2025||The government is eyeing a turnover of Rs 1.75 lakh crore (USD 25 billion) in defence manufacturing by 2025 as it has identified the sector as a potential driver to boost the overall economy, according to a draft of a major policy prepared by the defence ministry. The draft Defence Production and Export Promotion Policy 2020 set an export target of Rs 35,000 crore (USD 5 billion) in aerospace and defence goods and services in the next five years, which has been estimated as part of the total projected turnover. The policy is envisaged as overarching guiding document of the defence ministry to provide a “focused, structured and significant” thrust to production of military hardware and platforms for self-reliance and exports, officials said. Officials said the policy is aimed at developing a dynamic, robust and competitive defence industry, including aerospace and naval shipbuilding, to cater to the needs of the armed forces. In May, Finance Minster Nirmala Sitharaman rolled out a number of reform measures for the defence sector including making separate budgetary outlay to procure Indian-made military hardware, increasing FDI limit from 49 per cent to 74 per cent under the automatic route and generating a year-wise negative list of weapons which will not be allowed to import. India is one of the most lucrative markets for global defence giants as it figured among top three importers of military hardware in the world for the last eight years. According to estimates, the Indian armed forces are projected to spend around USD 130 billion in capital procurement in the next five years. The draft Defence Production and Export Promotion Policy (DPEPP) also prescribed a framework to reduce dependence on imports and take forward the “Make in India” initiatives through domestic design and development. It also suggested steps to promote export of defence products to make India become part of the global defence supply chain. The officials said the policy paper made several key recommendations to boost defence manufacturing so that the sector compliments the government’s aim make the country’s economy a USD 5 trillion one by 2024. In an address at the 11th edition of DefExpo in Lucknow in February, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said lack of proper policy initiative in last several decades made India the biggest importer of defence platforms and that his government has taken a series of initiatives to cut the country’s dependence on foreign acquisitions. The draft policy has laid out a goal to achieve a turnover of Rs 1,75,000 crore (USD 25 billion) including export of Rs 35,000 crore (USD 5 billion) in aerospace and defence goods and services by 2025. It also laid out goals to create an environment that encourages research and development, rewards innovation, creates Indian IP (intellectual property) ownership and promotes a robust and self-reliant defence industry. The policy brought out multiple strategies under a range of “focus areas” indigenisation and support to MSMEs and startups, optimisation of resource allocation, FDI in defence, ease of doing business, quality assurance and testing infrastructure and export promotion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-eyeing-rs-1-75-lakh-crore-in-turnover-in-defence-manufacturing-by-2025/story-EszPR5d8J8RUCNJnuD2fRM.html
03-08-2020||India||Nearly 56% of Covid-19 patients below 40 years of age: Telangana health dept study||Nearly 56 per cent of the people who have tested positive for Covid-19 in Telangana are young, mostly below 40 years of age, an analysis of the data of the patients conducted by the state medical and health department on Monday said. As on Sunday night, the state has reported a total number of 67,660 positive cases for Covid-19, including 983 in the previous 24 hours. “Around 25 per cent of these cases are of patients in the age group of 31-40 years. While 22.1 per cent cases are that of patients in the 21-30 years age group, 5.3 per cent of patients fall in the age group of 11-10 and only 3.4 per cent of patients are below 10 years of age,” director of medical and health department G Srinivasa Rao said. Another 18.6 per cent of the positive cases are of people within the age group of 41-50 years and 14.7 per cent of the patients are in 51-60 years’ age group. “It means, nearly 89 per cent of the Covid-19 patients are below 60 years of age,” Rao said. Among the total number of patients, 65.6 per cent are men and the remaining are women. Though the department has not mentioned any reasons for the high percentage of cases among the youth, the health director indicated that the cases had been on the rise due to increasing mobility among people in the post-lockdown period. While the general perception is that most of the fatalities due to Covid-19 are those of people suffering from co-morbidities like cancer, asthma, coronary diseases, diabetes and hypertension, etc., the study revealed that 46.13 per cent of the patients who died of Covid-19 in the state so far did not have any co-morbidities. “While 53.87 per cent of the patients who died of Covid-19 till date had one or the other co-morbidity, all the remaining victims died only because of the Covid-19 disease,” the health director said. Despite having a huge number of positive cases, Telangana reported fewer deaths – only 551 till now, with a mortality rate of 0.81 per cent, which is far below the national average of 2.13 per cent. Health minister Eatala Rajender, who held a video-conference with senior doctors with expertise in infectious diseases on Monday, pointed out that that most of the deaths were out of fear psychosis, rather than the disease itself. He asked the doctors to infuse confidence among the patients by regularly conducting psychological counselling sessions. The health director pointed out that the state has a high recovery rate – 71.8 per cent, as against the national average of 65.44 per cent. So far, 48,609 out of 67,660 positive cases have recovered after testing negative, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-56-of-covid-19-patients-below-40-years-of-age-telangana-health-dept-study/story-WfSazWg1MaErJkEloGR8BL.html
03-08-2020||India||Ahmedabad’s Covid-19 case count nears 27,000-mark; six die||The number of Covid-19 cases in Ahmedabad district of Gujarat mounted by 151 to 26,969 on Monday, state health department said.Death toll went up to 1,609 with six patients succumbing to the infection in the day, it said.A total of 109 patients were discharged in the day, including 100 in Ahmedabad city and 9 in rural areas, taking the total count to 21,801 in the district.Of 151 new cases, 139 cases were reported from Ahmedabad city while 12 patients were detected in rural areas.All six fatalities were reported from Ahmedabad municipal corporation areas, the department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahmedabad-s-covid-19-case-count-nears-27-000-mark-six-die/story-yPnC7NLArJ9L2DkQE1W0RI.html
03-08-2020||India||Opposition piles pressure on Kerala CM to quit over gold smuggling case||Opposition parties have stepped up pressure on Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to quit owning moral responsibility as details of the  gold smuggling case began to emerge.  A day after Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan sat on a dharna in Delhi, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala held a day-long fast in the state capital on Monday seeking Vijayan’s resignation. “The CM’s office is under cloud after his secretary’s role came out in the smuggling case. Pinarayi Vijyan is Narendra Modi of Kerala and he never tolerates any healthy criticism.This is the first time a CM’s office is coming under such a charge,” said AICC general secretary Mukul Wasnik in a video conference as Chennithala began his fast.The CM’s powerful secretary M Sivasankar, a senior IAS officer, was suspended after his alleged links with one of the accused Swapna Suresh surfaced. The case hit  the headlines on July 5 after 30 kg of gold that came in an air consignment for the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate in Thiruvananthapuram was seized from the airport. Swapna Suresh and another accused Sandip Nair were about to get a plum contract to furnish the upcoming consular office UAE in Hyderabad, said a senior official familiar with the ongoing multi-agency probe.An agreement was clinched with a furniture firm in Malappuram for a multi-crore rupee deal which also had a provision forpayment of commission. A week after Swapna’s arrest in Bengaluru on July 11,furniture mart owner T M Anwar was also arrested in connection with the smuggling case.   “We have information that she acted as a brokerin many deals and accepted hefty commissions. She used her proximity with the powerful to strike deals. Her prowess in many languages including Arabic,English and Hindi bowled over many,” said the senior official. Meanwhile State Higher Education Minister K T Jaleel, whose phone number figured prominently in Suresh’s call list,reiterated that he interacted with her only for distributing Ramadan kits and copies of the Quran donated by the UAE. The BJP had expressed serious doubtsover consignments that came from the UAE and later transferred to Malappuram ina government vehicle. The Minister of State for External Affairs has said he violated protocol by accepting donations from another country without informing the Centre. “Some people are threatening me with terms like treason and protocol violation. The NIA is probing the case, let it investigate this also. I am least bothered about these wild allegations,” said Jaleel.  But BJP state president K Surendran said there was no need to send holy books from the UAE as they were readily available in Kerala also. He alleged that 28 such packets were taken to the minister’s constituency in a government vehicle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-piles-pressure-on-kerala-cm-to-quit-over-gold-smuggling-case/story-E8JgUMHWNaWQ9yw3pV9oHP.html
03-08-2020||India||Contributed Rs 1 crore for Ram temple in Ayodhya, says Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena has contributed Rs 1 crore for the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya ahead of the “bhoomi pujan” scheduled for August 5 as announced by Maharashtra Chief Minister and the party president Uddhav Thackeray earlier this year, the party said on Monday.The amount was transferred to the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust’s bank account via real-time gross settlement (RTGS) on July 27, the Sena said on Twitter.It also shared the July 27 letter written by Thackeray to the chairman of the Trust, saying the said amount had been transferred that day.The Sena’s clarification came amidst reports quoting Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, chairman of the trust, as saying that no money was received from the saffron party as promised.Thackeray had announced the monetary contribution on March 7 this year during his visit to Ayodhya to commemorate 100 days in office as the chief minister.“I had during my Ayodhya tour resolved to contribute Rs 1 crore on behalf of the Shiv Sena. This amount has been transferred via RTGS to Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust’s bank account in Ayodhya on July 27,” Thackeray said in the letter.Hailing the upcoming ground-breaking ceremony, Thackeray stated crores of Hindus across the world have been waiting for this “historic” moment for years.Earlier in the day, Sena MP Sanjay Raut hinted that Thackeray may not visit Ayodhya owing to the serious Covid-19 situation in the Uttar Pradesh town.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/contributed-rs-1-crore-for-ram-temple-in-ayodhya-says-shiv-sena/story-wAQEGAWutium4ldDfEL80K.html
03-08-2020||India||Gujjars get reservation, tribals a public holiday as Gehlot tries to keep MLAs together||Jaipur: Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has decided to declare a holiday in the desert state on August 9, the World Tribal Day, and also allocate a 5% of reservation to most backward classes (MBCs), including Gujjars in judicial services, which the experts say is his attempt to keep his flock of members of the legislative assembly (MLAs) together amid a bitter internal power struggle with sacked deputy CM Sachin Pilot, who himself is a Gujjar. The Congress government in Rajasthan is facing a crisis since July 12, when 18 party MLAs, loyal to Pilot, revolted and sought removal of Gehlot, a demand that not been met by the party’s high command. On Sunday night, Gehlot announced that the upcoming World Tribal Day on August 9 would be a public holiday in the state and met the long-standing demand of the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP). The two BTP MLAs are camping with 100 legislators supporting Gehlot in a Jaisalmer Hotel. All the MLAs along with Gehlot reached Jaisalmer, a desert town, on Friday from a hotel in Jaipur, where they were staying since July 12. The BTP had announced its support to the government on July 18 and had given a letter that listed 17 charter of demands, a few days after BTP national party chief Mahesh C Vasava issued a whip asking the party MLAs to remain neutral amid the power tussle.Congress leaders said the MLAs decided to support their government after Gehlot assured them that all their demand would be met once there is stability in the dispensation and there would be no dearth of funds for developmental works in their constituencies. BTP state president, Velaram Ghogra, said: “It was a long pending demand and we are thankful to the CM for keeping it. We are hopeful that other demands will also be met.” The second decision to give a 5% reservation to the MBCs in judicial services, which include the Gujjars, is to send a message that the government was working for the uplift of all communities, despite Pilot’s rebellion. Earlier, Gehlot had announced 5% of reservation for MBCs, including Gujjars, in other government jobs. “The CM wants to send a message to the Gujjar community that the Congress is with them if, in case, by-polls takes place in the constituencies of the 19 rebel Congress MLAs,” said a senior Congress functionary, requesting anonymity. There are eight Gujjar MLAs in Rajasthan Assembly, including Pilot. All of them are from the Congress, including one who had fought on the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) ticket but later merged with the Congress last September.In at least 10 of these 19 constituencies, the Gujjar community has a sizeable vote share, a Congress leader said. Gujjar leader Himmat Singh said the decision has come at the time, where there was some anger among the community members against the ouster of Pilot as state Congress president and the deputy CM. “The decision would offset that anger to some extent,” he said. The two decisions came days after Gehlot assured the MLAs at a Congress Legislative Party (CLP) meeting that their local area fund would be restored soon and the bureaucrats would cooperate with them in carrying out development works. “The CM has assured the MLAs that there would be no dearth of money for developmental works in their constituencies and all their grievances would be redressed,” said the Congress leader quoted above. Political analyst Narayan Bareth said Gehlot would use the available time before the start of the assembly session from August 14 to send a message that all is right with his government and there is no need to worry. “I see more such decisions in the coming days. The latest decisions are an attempt to save the government. Besides the moves have also strengthened the Congress’s traditional tribal base, which is part of Gehlot’s politics,” he said. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Mukesh Pareek said there are many promises that are yet to be kept such as unemployment allowance, relief to farmers, and regularisation of contractual employees. The Gehlot government should also keep them without looking at political gains, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujjars-get-reservation-tribals-a-public-holiday-as-gehlot-tries-to-keep-mlas-together/story-IGBWTEMRAMtWkBwLIBDY7H.html
03-08-2020||India||Security forces launch massive search operation for missing solder in Kashmir||A massive search by the army and the police is underway in south Kashmir’s Kulgam and Shopian districts to trace a Territorial Army (TA) soldier who went missing Sunday night when he was on his way home.Rifleman Shakir Manzoor, a resident of Shopian, went missing after his car was stopped by some unidentified people at Rambhama village in Kulgam district on Sunday evening. The army suspects that militants operating in south Kashmir are behind the kidnapping of the 24-year-old soldier who had joined the Army’s 162 TA battalion in 2018 and was now with 22 sector Rashtriya Rifles. Officials said the soldier’s car was stopped and then set on fire by the unidentified people and when relatives and police reached near the spot in the evening, he was missing.Police officials fear that Manzoor has been abducted by militants. Police have also questioned some people near the spot where the burnt car was found.Soon after the incident, police and army teams launched a joint operation in several areas of Shopian and Kulgam districts to trace Manzoor. On Monday morning they expanded the search operations but he couldn’t be located till the evening. So far no militant group has claimed responsibility for the abduction.“The abandoned burnt car of Manzoor has been found near Kulgam. It is suspected that the soldier has been abducted by terrorists. Search operation is in progress,” an army spokesperson said in a statement.Relatives said Manzoor was on leave when his car stopped and set on fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-forces-launch-massive-search-operation-for-missing-solder-in-kashmir/story-oej17G7aQpZlsq4kiqEofO.html
03-08-2020||India||PM Modi to represent all devotees, only invitees should come for Ram temple foundation ceremony: CM Yogi||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said that all the devotees want to come to witness the foundation stone-laying ceremony of Ram Temple on August 5 but only those who are invited should come here as Prime Minister Narendra Modi will represent all of them.“We have made all arrangements to ensure that there is no laxity on any count. The main focus is on Covid-19. The protocol has to be enforced strictly. Only those who are invited should come here. All devotees want to come but PM will represent all of them,” the Chief Minister said.CM Adityanath said that to witness this historic moment, it’s essential that we light earthen lamps at our homes on August 4 and 5.“Religious leaders will decorate temples, organise ‘deepotsav’ and ‘akhand Ramayan Path’ at temples, and remember their ancestors who sacrificed themselves for Ram Temple,” he said.“Along with Ayodhya, it will be a historic moment for the country and the world when Prime Minister Modi will lay the foundation stone for the construction of a grand temple of Lord Ram in Ayodhya after 500 years. Realising its importance, I have come here to take stock of the preparations ahead of foundation laying ceremony,” he added.CM Yogi said after COVID-19, the state government and the temple trust would invite devotees district-wise in a planned way.The Chief Minister offered prayers at the Hanuman Garhi temple during his visit to Ayodhya to take stock of the preparations for the ‘bhoomi pujan’ scheduled to take place on August 5. CM Yogi and officials also visited Ram ki Paudi to inspect the arrangements ahead of the foundation stone laying ceremony.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation stone of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya on August 5.The construction of Ram temple will begin in Ayodhya after the ceremony to lay the foundation stone in which various dignitaries from the political and religious field are likely to participate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-represent-all-devotees-only-invitees-should-come-for-ram-temple-foundation-ceremony-cm-yogi/story-mR3gJCDGG4MxMf27Ti7OlK.html
03-08-2020||India||Strange why Bihar cops being obstructed in probe into Sushant Singh Rajut’s death: Devendra Fadnavis||Barely a couple of hours after Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh backed Mumbai Police saying it was probing actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death “in a very professional manner”, former chief minister and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said it was strange the Bihar Police was not being allowed to perform their duties.“It is really very strange that why Maharashtra Government is coming under unnecessary suspicion by not allowing Bihar Police to perform their duties,” Fadnavis said in a tweet.In another tweet he asked why a Bihar police officer who had flown into Mumbai had to be quarantined.“A medical team from Kerala visited Mumbai, UP Police came to investigate Vikas Dubey case, a team from Bihar police is already working in Mumbai since 4 days but none of them were quarantined then why only an SP rank officer is treated differently?” Instead of solving the mystery of #SushantSinghRajput ‘s death , such behaviour will only result into huge public outcry and disbelief amongst the people about the investigation.Patna City Superintendent of Police Vinay Tiwari, who arrived in Mumbai on Sunday to supervise the probe being conducted by Bihar Police, was quarantined by BMC authorities for 14 days at the State Reserve Police Force guest house in suburban Goregaon. BMC authorities also stamped his hand showing the quarantine period till August 15.In another tweet, Fadnavis said this kind of action will cause disbelief among the people over the investigation.“Instead of solving the mystery of #SushantSinghRajput ‘s death , such behaviour will only result into huge public outcry and disbelief amongst the people about the investigation,” the former CM said.The opposition BJP in Maharashtra has been demanding that the probe in the case be handed over to the CBI, while the state government has been dismissing the same.Earlier Monday, Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh said Rajput’s family did not complain about any lapse in the investigation being carried by his force. Rajput died by suicide in Mumbai last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/strange-why-bihar-cops-being-obstructed-in-probe-into-sushant-singh-rajut-s-death-devendra-fadnavis/story-IOvlqD3Ui3wB8XBGnCCCAM.html
03-08-2020||India||Centre may extend deadline to avail Rs 3 lakh crore emergency credit facility||The Central government may extend the October 31 deadline to avail the Rs 3 lakh crore emergency working loan facility for small enterprises and individual professionals to help them tide over the crisis triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic, two officials said. The government has already extended its scope by enhancing eligibility criteria to include larger units and also allowed individual professionals such as doctors, chartered accountants and cab drivers. The proposal to continue the scheme beyond October is also under consideration, the officials with direct knowledge of the matter said requesting anonymity. The Union Cabinet on May 20, 2020 approved an Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) with a corpus of Rs 41,600 crore for about five months ending on October 31.The scheme provides for an easy additional working capital loan at a concessional rate of interest to an existing borrower who was not a defaulter. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday expanded its scope at the request of the industry in line with the revised definition of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and the cap on funding under the scheme doubled from Rs 5 crore to Rs 10 crore. Besides, industrial units with turnover up to Rs 250 crore (earlier cap was Rs 100 crore), the finance minister extended the facility to individual professional. HT reported it on Sunday. The National Credit Guarantee Trustee Company Ltd (NCGTC) that issued the operational guideline of ECLGS on June 2, said the interest rate under the scheme is capped at 9.25% per annum for banks and financial institutions. For non-banking finance companies (NBFCs), the interest rate should not exceed 14% per annum. NCGTC is a wholly-owned company of the Union government formed in March 2014 to act as a trustee for multiple credit guarantee funds. Divakar Vijayasarathy, founder and managing partner at consultancy firm DVS Advisors LLP said, “With most of the states still under various stages of lockdown and vaccine expected by year end, it would definitely make sense for the government to extend the deadline. Once the demand picks up, there would be lot more takers for this scheme.” In the last two months over Rs 1.36 lakh crore, less than 50% of Rs 3 lakh crore had been sanctioned by banks and NBFCs and only Rs 87,227 crore could be disbursed under the scheme. The government expects about Rs 1 lakh crore loan offtake by newly eligible individual professionals. Still there would be some headroom, which could prompt the government to extend the deadline, one of the officials quoted above said. Kapil Rana, chartered accountant and founder of HostBooks Ltd, a cloud-based accounting platform said the deadline should be extended as the pandemic situation has not completely normalised and several people have not resumed their businesses. “Extension of the deadline will benefit the SME’s [small and medium enterprises] who have not yet availed the facilities,” he said. “The intention of the government was to provide ease in cash flow, however, till now the sanction and disbursement are not up to the expected level,” he said. Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC) chairman A Sakthivel proposed to remove the turnover criterion completely for exporters. “While turnover of exporters may seem large due to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, the thin margin on which the apparel exporters work and the perishable nature of their products make them vulnerable to any changes in export orders and delay in shipment, which is clearly evident during the ongoing crisis,” he said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-may-extend-deadline-to-avail-the-rs-3-lakh-crore-emergency-credit-facility/story-etXGPFuS2FyfkR9jwZuRfJ.html
03-08-2020||India||Bengal Governor, BJP leaders who met Amit Shah quarantine themselves at home||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and a few other Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders from the state, who had met Union home minister Amit Shah in the past fortnight, said that they have quarantined themselves at home. Dhankhar tweeted that he underwent a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) test on July 24 that showed him negative. Shah tested Covid-19 positive on Sunday and is undergoing treatment at Medanta hospital in Gurugram. “Met Shah on July 20. Went into self-quarantine after returning from Delhi. Tested Covid-19 negative on July 24. In good sound health. All parameters checked daily and in order,” the governor tweeted after Shah was found to have contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease. Dhankhar had met Shah on July 20 and discussed with him the “worrisome situation” in West Bengal. During the meeting, the governor had apprised the home minister about the prevailing law and order, political and Covid-19 situation in the Trinamool Congress-ruled state. “I am in quarantine now and staying alone in my Delhi house. Till date, I have not developed any (Covid-19) symptoms,” said Debasree Chaudhuri, minister of state (MoS), Women and Child Development (WCD), and a lawmaker, who represents north Bengal’s Raiganj constituency in Lok Sabha (LS). BJP LS lawmakers Saumitra Khan and Nisith Pramanik had met Shah a few days ago to apprise him about the Covid-19 situation in the state. “We had maintained social distancing while meeting the union home minister. I am in home quarantine. I may undergo a Covid-19 test,” said Khan. Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta and Union minister Babul Supriyo have also met Shah in the past fortnight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-governor-bjp-leaders-who-met-amit-shah-quarantine-themselves-at-home/story-mbgYBMqnNAojNLXD4nJRZM.html
03-08-2020||India||No hawkers in Maharashtra as of now: State reiterates it’s stand before HC||The Maharashtra government has reiterated its stand before the Bombay high court (HC) that it cannot allow street vendors and hawkers to resume their businesses because of the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. In an affidavit filed in HC, the state government has stated that street vendors and hawkers would not be allowed to resume businesses in containment zones and areas that are still under lockdown restrictions They will also not be allowed to resume businesses in other areas as well. “… these sectors (street vending and hawking) fall in unorganised sectors and it is very difficult, if any and if at all, imposed for conducting such businesses,” said the affidavit filed by Kishor Nimbalkar, secretary, disaster management, relief, and rehabilitation department, Maharashtra.Huge manpower, including police and civic staff, would be required to ensure compliance of guidelines issued for the conduct of these businesses and the ground reality is that all these agencies are over-burdened and exhausted, it added. The affidavit is filed in reply to a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by activist Manoj Oswal (43) for a declaration that the imposition of the complete ban on the sale of products or food by street vendors to be illegal or unconstitutional and violative of the rights of the people to conduct legitimate business. In his petition, filed through advocate Ashish Verma, the Pune-based activist said the nationwide lockdown restrictions have led to serious issues for the survival of a vast section of the population, including street vendors and traders, who own small informal shops and vends, and the only possible relief for them is that if they are allowed conducting their daily business with reasonable restrictions. Oswal has termed the state government’s stand as “extremely high-handed and insensitive.” “The assumption that the street vendors can cause more Covid-19 infections than the store or shop owners is not supported by science or findings by any research,” his petition stated “Merely because these people are poor, they are being treated as more infectious and responsible for causing infections. This is a clear prejudice and nothing else,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-hawkers-in-maharashtra-as-of-now-state-reiterates-it-s-stand-before-hc/story-idUVTiF6WcAMX3k9PumShK.html
03-08-2020||India||After visit to Covid Care Centre, Tripura BJP legislator asked to stay in quarantine for two weeks||Agartala: Tripura’s West district administration authorities have served an order asking a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator to be quarantined for two weeks from Monday because he had paid an unauthorised visit to a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) Care Centre and put himself at high risk of contracting SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease, as he exposed himself to the patients there. Sudip Roy Barman, the BJP lawmaker and former state health minister, visited the Covid-19 Care Centre set up at Bhagat Singh Youth hostel in West district on Sunday wearing personal protective equipment (PPE). However within a few hours, Dr. Sandeep Namdeo Mahatme, district magistrate (DM), West district, served him a notice asking him to remain in an institutional quarantine for seven days and followed by home quarantine for another seven days. In reply to the notice, Roy Barman alleged that a conspiracy was hatched to malign him. He said he visited the centre after taking all precautionary measures and to get a sense about the alleged infrastructure inadequacy at the emergency healthcare facility. He said he watched a video on social media, where a pregnant Covid-19 patient could be seen and heard complaining of lack of doctors’ visit to the centre. Later, speaking to the reporters on Monday, he said that he would not opt for quarantine until he is found to have contracted the viral infection. Earlier on July 28, the state government had issued a notice, stating that home quarantine is permissible in case of mild or asymptomatic Covid-19 patients. Tripura has reported 5,392 Covid-19 cases, of whom 3,605 patients have recovered from their viral infection. So far, 24 people have died due to the viral infection and two Covid-19 patients died by suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-visit-to-covid-care-centre-tripura-bjp-legislator-asked-to-stay-in-quarantine-for-two-weeks/story-aBEFafCZAASOu2KgblDInI.html
03-08-2020||India||Mumbai: Doctor pursuing diploma seeks HC intervention for degree certificate||Mumbai: The Bombay high court (HC) has directed a petitioner doctor to amend his plea and add a request to be included in a 2018 notification issued by Maharashtra government that had changed the status of two-year diploma courses for post-graduate (PG) medical students to a three-year degree course. All diploma courses were changed to three-year degree courses in June 2018, a month after the petitioner took the admission for it. Though the petitioner completed the two-year diploma course in March, he has been asked to persist with it because of the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak. He submitted before the court that he should get a P-G degree because he has to continue the course for another nine months. A two-member HC division bench, comprising Justices Ujjal Bhuyan and Milind Jadhav, while hearing a petition of Dr. Shashikant Morale was informed by advocate Vijay Thorat about the disadvantage suffered by his client because of the state government notification. He pleaded that his client was denied the degree benefit as the state government notification could not be applied retrospectively. The petitioner moved HC seeking direction to the Medical Council of India (MCI) to extend the benefit of the change in status. Thorat cited that Dr. Morale had completed three months in excess of the two-year of the diploma course and was willing to serve another nine months. The advocate said his client should get a degree certificate instead of a diploma upon completion of three years of the PG course. Thorat also submitted that the state government notification was discriminatory and was in violation of Article 14 of the Constitution and it should be struck down. The court will hear the petition next on August 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-doctor-pursuing-diploma-seeks-hc-intervention-for-degree-certificate/story-kKmVAYqQQ3j92eDEEMAx6I.html
03-08-2020||India||Amaravati farmers move high court, seek stay on three capitals for Andhra||With the Andhra Pradesh government passing orders de-notifying Amaravati as the capital region, farmers of the hitherto capital area on Monday moved the high court challenging the formation of three capital cities for the state. Rajadhani Rythu Parirakshana Samithi (farmers’ committee to safeguard the state capital) filed a petition in the high court seeking a stay on the implementation of the gazette notifications issued by the state government on Friday. The gazette notifications, issued soon after Governor Biswabhushan Harichandan gave his assent to the bills, sought to abolish the Andhra Pradesh Capital Region Development Authority (APCRDA) and form three separate capitals – the executive capital at Visakhapatnam, legislative capital at Amaravati and a judicial capital at Kurnool.ALSO READ | Andhra govt begins process to shift capital to Vizag, farmers plan to move court The petitioner challenged the notifications and requested that the high court stall the shifting of the Raj Bhawan, Chief Minister’s Office and state secretariat from Amaravati to Visakhapatnam and the high court to Kurnool. The petitioner also questioned the legality of the reports of the expert committee led by retired IAS officer G N Rao and the high-powered committee comprising ministers and senior bureaucrats, based on whose recommendations the Andhra government took a decision on the three capitals. The high court posted the case for hearing on Tuesday. Late on Saturday night, the state government issued orders abolishing APCRDA, thereby de-notifying Amaravati as the capital city of Andhra Pradesh. In place of APCRDA, the government order created the Amaravati Metropolitan Region Development Authority (AMRDA). All the areas within the jurisdiction of the hitherto capital region have now come under AMRDA. All the assets, liabilities, agreements and concessions, which were handled by the APCRDA, will now be vested with the new authority. According to the order, the AMRDA would be headed by a chairperson and comprise 11 members with secretary of the municipal administration and urban development department as the deputy chairperson and commissioner as the member-convenor. The authority would also include experts of national or international repute who possess knowledge in urban governance, urban planning, conservation, environment and transportation as members, the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amaravati-farmers-move-high-court-seek-stay-on-three-capitals-for-andhra/story-sMNNM5mg7dncHxjeVQBd7O.html
03-08-2020||India||Citizens becoming law breakers due to court delays: Retired SC judge||New Delhi: Delay by courts in deciding cases is forcing the public to resort to extra-legal measures to solve their disputes and law-abiding citizens are becoming lawbreakers, retired Supreme Court (SC) judge justice RV Raveendran said last week. The mounting pendency of cases is also affecting the quality of dispensation of justice, as judges look at cases as mere “statistics” rather than as a human problem due to the enormous workload on them, he had said on July 28, urging measures to be taken to address the pressing issue. “Due to delay, confidence in the rule of law and justice system is getting eroded. So, people start thinking of solutions outside the legal framework. Landlords engage musclemen to evict tenants, financial institutions engage dubious collection agencies, etc. Law-abiding citizens become a society of lawbreakers. This is the most dangerous side-effect of delay,” he said. Justice Ravindran, who retired from the SC in 2011, was speaking at the launch of a book titled Justice Frustrated: The Systemic Impact of Delay in Indian Courts by Daksh, a civil society organisation. The book is a volume of essays with contributions from jurists, economists, sociologists, and researchers. The book gives insight into the effects of delay and to understand the practical repercussions of judicial delay on the lives of people, organisations, institutions, and society itself. “Learnings from Daksh’s Access to Justice Surveys in 2016 and 2017 (findings of which are published in two earlier reports, State of The Indian Judiciary and Approaches to Justice in India) made us think more deeply about the various kinds of impact that judicial delay has on individuals, society, and the justice system. This led us to conceptualise this book. In analysing the impact of judicial delay, we want to go beyond calculating the costs and time spent on attending court hearings to a more nuanced and detailed understanding of the cascading effects of judicial delay at multiple levels,” Surya Prakash BS, programme director, at Daksh told HT. Justice Ravindran, in his speech, highlighted the abysmal judge to population ratio which, he said, was one of the major reasons for the delay. “Indian judiciary has a judge population ratio of 18 judges per million. Judiciary seldom functions at its sanctioned strength, it normally operates with 75% of strength. So the ratio of judges to the population will be around 12. If you compare it with developed countries, they have 50 to 110 judges per million,” he said. He said that the mindset of the bar and the bench has to change when it comes to addressing the issue. “A powerful bar and a very conservative judiciary have developed a mindset tuned to think of the life cycle of cases in terms of years and decades rather than days and months. Negotiated settlements and adoption of alternative dispute resolution is not given the push which they deserve,” Ravindran added. He said that the executive, legislature and the judiciary have been lacklustre, when it comes to tackling the problem. “The response of the executive to demands for more courts, judge, and infrastructure have been lukewarm. The response of the legislature to the demand for better laws has been sluggish. The response of judiciary for demands for better processes for selection of judges and their training has been unsatisfactory,” he said. “Judicial delays are a societal problem, not just a judicial institution problem. They have social, economic, political, and other day-to-day ramifications and affects our lives in more ways than one without us realising it. It goes to the very root of our constitutional republic. After all, if we don’t sort out our problems in court, the rule of law fails and undermines us as a society,” said Harish Narasappa, lawyer and co-founder of Daksh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/citizens-becoming-law-breakers-due-to-court-delays-retired-sc-judge/story-Wrg4Wp8fccBhEw2qHkXLxJ.html
03-08-2020||India||We became complacent, says Kerala CM as Covid-19 tally rises||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said Monday that complacency has led to a spike in Covid-19 cases in the state.“People should not be careless in taking Covid-19 precautions. Initially, everyone hailed Kerala for good work in containing Covid-19 as we took necessary precautions. But we became complacent that is why we reached the present situation,” ANI quoted Vijayan as saying.Kerala which was the first state to record Covid-19 cases in the country in January had initially performed very well in keeping the infections under check. It also had the highest recovery rate and the lowest mortality rates.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage.But although the recoveries have remained impressive, the overall numbers began to change after people were allowed to return from abroad and other states. In May, the number of active cases in Kerala had come down to less than 100. It now has over 11,000 active cases.The state is now clocking fresh cases of Covid-19 by the hundreds. On Sunday, Kerala’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 25,000 mark with another day of 1,000 plus infections. More than 14,000 people have recovered so far while the casualties are closing in on the 100 mark. The death toll is still the lowest among south Indian states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-became-complacent-that-is-why-we-reached-this-stage-kerala-cm/story-4kif4U8l2JTWqNIFDK1uAK.html
03-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Yoga institutes, gyms to open from August 5; govt issues guidelines and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 update: Yoga institutes, gyms to open from August 5; govt issues guidelinesThe government has allowed gymnasiums and yoga institutes to lift shutters from August 5 under the third phase of unlocking the Covid-19 lockdown. As per the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), yoga institutes and gymnasiums located in Covid-19 containment zones shall not be permitted to open.Read more. Sushant Singh Rajput’s family didn’t raise any suspicion, no evidence against any politician: Mumbai Police commissionerBollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s family did not complain about any lapse in the investigation being carried by Mumbai Police into his death in June, the city’s top police official has said.Read more. ‘Light diyas at home to mark the historic moment of bhoomi pujan’: AdityanathIn the run-up to the ground-breaking ceremony of the foundation stone-laying of Ram Temple in Ayodhya on Wednesday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said it is essential to light earthen lamps or diyas at our homes to mark the historic moment.Read more. ‘Supreme Court remained a mute spectator when Delhi burnt’: Prashant Bhushan refuses to apologiseThe Supreme Court (SC) remained a mute spectator as communal riots ravaged north-east Delhi, advocate Prashant Bhushan said on Sunday in his counter-affidavit filed in response to the contempt of court case initiated against him by the top court for his tweets against the apex court and the Chief Justice of India (CJI), SA Bobde.Read more. Pakistan court allows India to appoint lawyer for Kulbhushan JadhavThe Islamabad high court on Monday adjourned the hearing in the Kulbushan Jadhav case till September 3, saying India should be given a chance to appoint a lawyer to defend the former Indian Navy commander sentenced to death for alleged involvement in a spying case.Read more. Anand Mahindra’s floor drain post sparks an interesting Twitter chatter. Seen it yet?Anand Mahindra, every now and then, shares posts which not just impresses people but leaves them with various thoughts too. Case in point is his latest tweet which is about the design of a floor drain. The business tycoon has shared an image which has now sparked chatter among people.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-yoga-institutes-gyms-to-open-from-august-5-govt-issues-guidelines-and-all-the-latest-news/story-8Wc2oXzXeuqrKVmeqnuKEP.html
03-08-2020||India||Kulbhushan Jadhav case: Pakistan High Court allows India to appoint lawyer||A Pakistani court on Monday directed the government to inform India to appoint a lawyer for Kulbhushan Jadhav, the former Indian Navy officer sentenced to death for alleged involvement in spying, in order to file a review petition against his conviction. A two-judge bench of the Islamabad high court headed by chief justice Athar Minallah also directed the Pakistan government to again inform Jadhav, 50, of his rights under the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations and the International Court of Justice’s (ICJ) order of 2019 staying his execution and calling for a review of his conviction. Referring to an ordinance promulgated by Pakistan to give effect to ICJ’s order, the bench said: “He shall be specifically informed regarding his right to avail the statutory remedy provided under the Ordinance of 2020 and to authorise the Government of India to arrange legal representation on his behalf.” The judges ordered the formation of a larger bench to hear the case in view of its importance and adjourned the matter till September 3. Pakistan’s attorney general Khalid Jawed Khan told the media after Monday’s hearing the high court had said Jadhav would be given a second chance to engage a lawyer. “The federal government also wants that he should himself engage a lawyer,” Khan said, speaking in Urdu. Asked by reporters whether Indian lawyers could appear in the Islamabad high court on behalf of Jadhav, Khan said “only Pakistani lawyers and those who are entitled to practice in Pakistan” can be appointed. In response to another question on whether Indian lawyers could assist any Pakistani counsel engaged for Jadhav, he said, “This option has not been considered as of now.” There was no immediate response from Indian officials to the development. The high court also appointed three senior lawyers – Abid Hassan Manto, Hamid Khan and former attorney general Makhdoom Ali Khan – as amici curiae or “friends of the court” to “ensure that the judgement of the [ICJ] is effectively implemented”. In its order, the high court further said it expected Jadhav’s right to a fair trial “will be respected and utmost care will be exercised while making statements,...reporting by print and electronic media or otherwise commenting on or relating to the proceedings”. Before joining the Islamabad high court, Minallah was a leading lawyer and played a key role in the lawyers’ movement against former dictator Pervez Musharraf. Some of his rulings have gone against the military establishment. India recently said Pakistan had blocked all its efforts to seek remedies in the case of Jadhav, who was arrested by Pakistani security agencies in Balochistan in March 2016 and charged with involvement in spying. India rejected these allegations and said he was kidnapped by Pakistani operatives from the Iranian port of Chabahar, where he was running a business. The Pakistan government has promulgated the International Court of Justice (Review and Reconsideration) Ordinance 2020 to allow Jadhav to appeal against the death sentence given to him by a military court in 2017. The ordinance was recently tabled in Parliament for approval. External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a virtual weekly news briefing last week that Pakistan had systematically blocked all of India’s attempts to seek remedies for Jadhav. He also accused Pakistan of violating the 2019 judgement of ICJ, which called for an effective review and reconsideration of the conviction and sentencing of Jadhav. India has also accused Pakistan of not providing unhindered, unimpeded and unconditional access to Jadhav or the official documents needed for filing a review petition. “We reserve our position in this matter, which includes the right to avail of further remedies. I’ll also reiterate that we stand committed to protect the life of our national Kulbhushan Jadhav,” Srivastava had said last week. On July 22, the Pakistan government petitioned the Islamabad high court to appoint a lawyer to represent Jadhav. The petition contended Jadhav was made aware of his rights but had refused to file a review petition against his sentence and that India had “not demonstrated a bonafide serious intent” to avail of remedies. However, India dismissed the contentions made in this petition and said a Pakistani lawyer appointed by it had been unable to file a review petition on July 18 as he wasn’t provided the necessary documents by Pakistani authorities. Indian officials had also walked out of a meeting with Jadhav on July 16 after Pakistan breached assurances of providing unimpeded consular access.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kulbhushan-jadhav-case-pakistan-hc-allows-india-to-appoint-lawyer/story-uz4JOCFsFM2h6Fjxs2T5bL.html
03-08-2020||India||KYC fraud: Mumbai senior citizen duped by cyber fraudster of Rs 3.18 lakh||Mumbai: A senior citizen (67) from Borivali was duped by a cyber fraudster of Rs 3.18 lakh. The fraudster posed as an executive from a popular e-wallet service provider and under the pretext of updating his KYC (Know Your Customer) details he ricked him into sharing his bank details, including OTPs (one-time passwords). The accused used these details and fraudulently transferred money to another bank account.The complainant is a retired government employee and lives in a Borivali (West) housing complex, the police said, On Sunday morning, he received a call from one Abhishekh Choudhary, who identified himself as an executive of a popular e-wallet service provider’s Delhi office. He told him he would not be able to use the e-wallet service, as his KYC details have not been updated.“He told the complainant that he needed to pay a one-time fee of Rs 10, if he wants to update the KYC detail. The senior citizen paid Rs 10 four times as per Choudhary’s instructions and also shared OTPs with him,” said an officer from the Borivali police station. When the accused asked the complainant for his debit card details he suspected trouble and disconnected the phone call, the first information report (FIR) stated.Soon, the complainant immediately found out that Rs 3,17,800 has been debited from his bank account. The complainant has filed an FIR against Choudhary.The police have registered a case under sections 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 66D (cheating by personation by using computer resource) of Information Technology (IT) Act, 2000.The police have begun an investigation and are in the process of obtaining the details of the unauthorised transactions from the bank and the e-wallet service provider.Maharastra cyber police recently issued an advisory about how such frauds are being done regularly and has also given the following tips to the public: * Not to believe the messages or calls in the name of updating of KYC documents* KYC is only done face-to-face at authorised centres, and not via mobile phone or SMS (short message service).* Never share OTPs (one-time passwords) with any person, not even with the bank executives. No bank asks for OTPs from its customers* While doing every transaction on e-wallet or UPI (Unified Payments Interface) platforms always carefully read the message before making the transactionFraudsters trick the public into clicking some options for fraudulent transactions by distracting your attention.* Avoid making your phone number public on social media sites* Always use genuine software on your smartphones* If a customer ever comes across a suspicious message, s/he must never click the links given in such text messages* Never share bank account credentials on Google view forms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kyc-fraud-mumbai-senior-citizen-duped-by-cyber-fraudster-of-rs-3-18-lakh/story-ISRheOZmIs8YRwCZ3jzcPN.html
03-08-2020||India||‘Light diyas at home to mark the historic moment of bhoomi pujan’: Adityanath||In the run-up to the ground-breaking ceremony of the foundation stone-laying of Ram Temple in Ayodhya on Wednesday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said it is essential to light earthen lamps or diyas at our homes to mark the historic moment. The chief minister said that people should light diyas at their homes on August 4 and 5, while religious leaders should decorate temples, organise ‘deepotsav’ and conduct ‘Akhand Ramayan Path’ at temples. While speaking to reporters, CM Adityanath said that all arrangements for the event have been made ensuring no laxity on any count and keeping the Covid-19 situation in mind. “The main focus is on Covid-19. The protocol has to be enforced very strictly. Only those who are invited should come here. All devotees want to come but the PM will represent all of them,” he said. The temple town of Ayodhya is witnessing grand arrangements for the bhoomi pujan ceremony of Ram Temple on Wednesday. Over one lakh designer diyas will add glitter to the event on August 5 while specially-made silver paans from Varanasi will add sheen to the ceremony. Also read: 20,000 temples get fresh paint. Ram dhun reverberates as Ayodhya decks up for the big day To witness this historic moment, it's essential that we light earthen lamps at our homes on 4th & 5th August, religious leaders decorate temples, organise 'deepotsav' & 'akhand Ramayan Path' at temples, and remember their ancestors who sacrificed themselves for Ram Temple: UP CM https://t.co/Xui5C3aJW2Every nook and corner of the town is being spruced up with nearly 500 sanitation workers deployed round the clock. Graffiti and images depicting scenes from the Ramayan have come up on main streets while buildings on main streets across city are being painted yellow.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation stone of the Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5 in a ceremony which is likely to see chief ministers of several states, Union ministers and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat in attendance. After the ceremony, the construction of the temple will commence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/light-diyas-at-homes-to-mark-the-historic-moment-of-bhoomi-pujan-adityanath/story-yXfIsKyQgm6xbtjTJP2q8O.html
03-08-2020||India||Nepal plans helipad on disputed location in Bihar’s West Champaran district||Amid strained relationship with India, the Nepal government is contemplating constructing a helipad at a disputed location on Indo-Nepal border along West Champaran district of Bihar, said Indian officials. According to officials, the proposed helipad is coming up at Narsahi village, a short distance from Thari border outpost (BOP) of Sashatra Seema Bal (SSB) near Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR) in West Champaran district, 80 km from the district headquarters Bettiah.“According to the information available with us, Nepal is planning to construct a helipad at Narsahi village which is a disputed land on the Indo-Nepal border. A tender for it has already been floated,” said Commandant Rajendra Bhardwaj of 21st Sashatra Seema Bal (SSB) Battalion.“We have already informed the headquarters about the development,” said the commandant.Officials blame the changing course of the Gandak river for the controversy around Narsahi on the Indo Nepal border along West Champaran district. “As agreed upon, the central of Gandak river forms the international boundary between Nepal and India. With the river changing its course in the 1970s, Narsahi shifted to the other side of the river and later the Indian citizens living there moved to this part of the Indian territory,” said Bhardwaj. Known as Sapt Gandaki and Narayani in Nepal, it originates in the Nhubine Himal glacier in Nepal and flows across the Himalayan country before entering India near the Valmiki Tiger Reserve in Bihar. The Gandak river flows another 300 km to meet the Ganga near Patna.Nepal’s Parliament recently approved a new political map, claiming its territorial command over key areas of Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura in Uttarakhand.The Indo-Nepal border stretches for more than 800-km along Bihar. Last month Nepal stopped fortification of an embankment for 400 meters on Lal Bakey river in Baluwa- Guabari panchayat in Dhaka block of East Champaran district in Bihar, claiming that some part of the construction fell under its territorial jurisdiction. Over the past two months there has been friction between the two countries along the border in Bihar.On July 7, the Sashtra Seema Bal (SSB) foiled a Nepalese bid to put up a board in an area on Bharat-Nepal Matripul which reportedly lies in no man’s land near Raxaul town of East Champaran district of Bihar. On June 13, Nepalease authorities buried an unclaimed body of a Covid-19 patient in their territory, barely 200 metres from Bharat-Nepal Maitri Pul at Raxaul in East Champaran district, creating panic among the locals.On June 12, Nepal Armed Police shot dead a youth and wounded two others near Sitamarhi district border following an altercation with them.On June 26, Nepal’s Armed Police Force (APF) withdrew a temporary camp set up at Pantoka village, appearing to be within Indian territory, near Raxaul town of Bihar’s East Champaran district.Meanwhile, the SSB have intensified the patrolling along the Indo-Nepal border ahead of Independence Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-plans-helipad-on-disputed-location-in-bihar-s-west-champaran-district/story-aDlDp1nQes1NTiDIwuDc2M.html
03-08-2020||India||Silver paan, gift from Varanasi, to be used in Ram temple ceremony on August 5||Betel leaves made of silver will be among the things which will be used in the groundbreaking ceremony for the Ram temple in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya on August 5.Five betel leaves (paan) made of silver have been sent to Ayodhya by the members of the Chaurasiya community from Varanasi. Betel leaves are considered auspicious and are included in many pujas in Hinduism.Nageshwar Chaurasia, president of Kashi Chaurasia Community, presented these betel leaves (paans) to members of the Vidwat Parishad, an organisation of intellectuals and scholars of Veda, Astrology, Paninian and Saskrit Grammar.These scholars left for Ayodhya today from Varanasi.Three noted scholars of Astrology and Vyakaran (grammar) will supervise the rituals of ‘Bhumi pujan’, the foundation stone-laying ceremony of Ram temple.The temple will be made from stones, without any iron and steel, the temple construction workshop’s supervisor had said last week.Anu Bhai Sompura, the temple’s construction workshop supervisor, said, “I am working here for 30 years. The stones are here, other stones will come from Rajasthan. Plain stones will come and the cutting will be done here. We have two machines here that cuts stone.”“No iron will be used, wood, copper and white cement will be used,” he said.Mahant Raju Das, from Hanuman Garhi Mandir, had said, “Trust has decided the temple will be made of stones as the stones are long-lasting. Hanuman Garhi mandir is also made of stone which was built in 1164 AD. Gold, silver and copper which people will give would be put in the temple’s ‘neev’ (foundation).”Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation stone of the Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5, according to Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, the president of the temple trust.The construction will begin after the ceremony in which chief ministers of several states, ministers from the Union Cabinet and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, among others are also likely to participate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/silver-paan-gift-from-varanasi-to-be-used-in-ram-temple-ceremony-on-august-5/story-csdxmPyRTv9gUqZdWCuNCK.html
03-08-2020||India||Three Vedic scholars from Varanasi leave for Ayodhya to participate in Bhoomi Pujan on Aug 5||Three prominent scholars of Astrology and Vyakaran left for Ayodhya from Kashi on Monday to participate and supervise in the rituals of the ‘Bhoomi Pujan’, the foundation-stone laying ceremony of the grand Ram Temple to be built in Ayodhya, slated for August 5. The scholars are office bearers of the Kashi Vidwat Parishad, an organisation of intellectuals and scholars of Veda, Astrology, Paninian, Sanskrit Grammar and Indian philosophy. The organisation represents Kashi. Three scholars including the Parishad’s vice-president Prof Ramchandra Pandey, member Prof Vinay Kumar Pandey and Prof Ramnarayan Dwivedi, the Parishad’s convener have left for Ayodhya. ALSO READ | ‘His blessings first’: Why Ayodhya’s Hanumangarhi temple is PM Modi’s first stopThe scholars carried a pair of gold Sheshnag, male and female serpentine, chandan from Baba Kashi Vishwanath Temple, a tortoise of silver to Ayodhya and five paans of silver. These will be used during the rituals. Prof Ramchandra Pandey, a noted astrology scholar, is a former dean of the faculty of Sanskrit Vidya Dharma Vigyan (SVDV), BHU and Prof Vinay Kumar Pandey teaches astrology at the department of astrology. Prof Dwivedi teaches grammar at the faculty of SVDV. Prof Dwivedi said that around a week ago, ‘Bhoomi Pujan’ organisers contacted the Parishad to send three noted scholars of astrology and Vedas for performing the rituals. The Parishad accepted the invitation and nominated three scholars, including the Parishad’s vice-president Prof Ramchandra Pandey, member Prof Vinay Kumar Pandey and Dwivedi for attending the ceremony. Prof Dwivedi said, “Day before yesterday, we received an invitation for the three office bearers from Shri Ram Janmabhumi Teertha Kshetra for attending the ‘Bhoomi Pujan’ ceremony of the Ram Temple. We left for Ayodhya on Monday.” “Rituals of ‘Bhoomi Pujan’ ceremony will take place under their supervision,” Dwivedi said. Prof Dwivedi said that soil from the birthplace of Lord Parshwanath, Bhelupur and water from the temple in a Mangal Kalash, was presented by Jain community members Dr KK Jain and Dr Amit Jain. They are also carrying the soil and water to Ayodhya. Before departing from Kashi, the scholars went to the Sankatmochan Temple. They offered prayers to Lord Sankatmochan Hanuman and left for Ayodhya. “It is a matter of luck to witness the foundation-laying ceremony of the Ram Temple. In fact, it is a great and auspicious day for all of us,” Pandey said, adding that he had already completed preparations for the Ayodhya visit. Silver Paans Nageshwar Chaurasia, president Chaurasia Samaj, and Bunty Chaurasia, secretary, Chaurasia Samaj along with other members of the Chaurasia community presented 5 silver paans to the Vidwat Parishad members on Sunday. The Vidwat Parishad members carried the paans and these will be used in the ‘Bhoomi Pujan’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-vedic-scholars-from-varanasi-leave-for-ayodhya-to-participate-in-bhoomi-pujan-on-aug-5/story-sWwEEt3J72g5LrPjUlhSWJ.html
03-08-2020||India||Pakistan court allows India to appoint lawyer for Kulbhushan Jadhav||The Islamabad high court on Monday adjourned the hearing in the Kulbushan Jadhav case till September 3, saying India should be given a chance to appoint a lawyer to defend the former Indian Navy commander sentenced to death for alleged involvement in a spying case.While stipulating that the lawyer should be a Pakistan national, the court instructed the Pakistan government to allow Indian authorities to appoint the legal representative for Jadhav in the case.Attorney General Khalid Javed Khan told the media the court had asked that the Indian government once again be approached to engage a lawyer, who is entitled to practice in Pakistan. In answer to a question, Khan said that so far no option has been given to allow Indian lawyers to assist the Pakistani legal team.Also read| ‘Obstructive and insincere’: India roasts Pak after meeting Kulbhushan JadhavThe court said that another chance should be given to the Indian government and to Kulbushan Jadhav for arranging a lawyer. The offer to the lawyer will be made through Pakistan’s ministry of foreign affairs. The Pakistan government had approached the Islamabad high court on July 22 to appoint a legal representative for Jadhav.The move was made in the light of the International Court of Justice’s July 17, 2019, decision, following which the International Court of Justice (Review and Reconsideration) Ordinance, 2020, was enacted to implement the court’s verdict.Pakistan had offered Jadhav consular access for a third time on July 17 after the second opportunity was not “fully availed”.India had accused Pakistan of blocking all avenues for an effective review of Jadhav’s case and said it reserved its rights to avail of further remedies.Also read: ‘Didn’t get free access to Kulbhushan Jadhav’: India slams PakistanThe external affairs ministry had accused Islamabad of systematically blocking access to the former naval officer, not providing documents related to his case and violating the International Court of Justice’s (ICJ) order for a review of his conviction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allow-india-to-appoint-a-legal-representative-for-kulbhushan-jadhav-says-islamabad-high-court/story-eJhAAl0iQSIaACjWzmFMsK.html
03-08-2020||India||‘Wonder why?’: Shashi Tharoor after Amit Shah chooses private hospital for Covid-19 treatment||Congress lawmaker Shashi Tharoor on Monday questioned why Union home minister Amit Shah, who tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Sunday, chose to go to a private hospital for treatment.Shah was admitted to Medanta Hospital in Gurugram in Haryana on Sunday afternoon after he tested positive for the viral disease.“Wonder why our Home Minister, when ill, chose not to go to AIIMS but to a private hospital in a neighbouring state. Public institutions need the patronage of the powerful if they are to inspire public confidence,” Tharoor, who represents Thiruvananthapuram in Lok Sabha, tweeted.Also read: Home minister Amit Shah tests Covid-19 positive, hospitalisedThe Congress leader was reacting to a tweet on the state-run All India Institute Of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi, which was established in 1956 when Jawaharlal Nehru was the prime minister. Amit Shah, who is the first Union cabinet minister to have tested positive for Covid-19, had announced the news on Twitter. He also requested those who came in his contact in the last few days to isolate themselves and get tested.“After showing initial symptoms, I underwent a test for coronavirus and the report came out positive. My health is fine but I am being admitted to the hospital on the advice of doctors,” he said.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Vinay Sahasrabuddhe and junior environment minister Babul Supriyo, who were among those who met Shah in last few days, have gone into isolation.Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has also said he has isolated himself as a precautionary measure after a meeting on Saturday with Shah.Also read: Ravi Shankar Prasad isolates himself after meeting Amit ShahUnion home secretary Ajay Bhalla, who was attending regular meetings with Shah, few joint secretaries and the home minister’s personal staff as well as security personnel deployed in his close proximity are also likely to be in isolation and undergo tests, government officials familiar with the matter said.Shah attended the cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last Wednesday, in which the government approved the new National Education Policy. However, social distancing was strictly followed at the cabinet meeting at the PM’s residence, the officials cited above have said. Shah is learnt to have attended crucial meetings on security, party meetings and met several persons at his office during the last few days. Before the Union home minister, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan tested positive for Covid-19 and then Karnataka’s BS Yediyurappa also contracted the disease.Both the BJP leaders are also admitted at private hospitals in Bengaluru and Bhopal respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wonder-why-shashi-tharoor-after-amit-shah-chooses-private-hospital-for-covid-19-treatment/story-qLpXLu6K8Fr7LFobzUhcMI.html
03-08-2020||India||Ravi Shankar Prasad isolates himself after meeting Amit Shah||Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad took to Twitter to announce that he has isolated himself as a precautionary measure after a meeting on Saturday with home minister Amit Shah who has tested positive for Covid-19.“Friends! I’m absolutely fine. To follow protocol I hv isolated myself at home for few days as I had met Amit Shah Ji on Saturday evening for n official meeting. I’m working from home & following daily routine including Yoga & exercise.Also reading books & enjoying classical music, Prasad tweeted. Another Union minister Babul Supriyo also went into self-isolation as he too had met Shah.Supriyo said he had been advised by doctors to confine himself away from his family members for the next few days and a test would be done soon.Earlier Sunday, Shah said he had tested positive for coronavirus and was getting admitted to a hospital following the advice of doctors.Shah also requested those who had come in contact with him in the last few days to get tested for Covid-19 and isolate themselves.The home minister is being treated at Medanta hospital in Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ravi-shankar-prasad-isolates-himself-after-meeting-amit-shah/story-ka2LwwXX99QiDKWsrKOwaM.html
03-08-2020||India||Covid-19 update: Yoga institutes, gyms to open from August 5; govt issues guidelines||The government has allowed gymnasiums and yoga institutes to lift shutters from August 5 under the third phase of unlocking the Covid-19 lockdown. As per the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), yoga institutes and gymnasiums located in Covid-19 containment zones shall not be permitted to open. Elderly people above the age of 65 years, people with co-morbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 years have been directed not to use gymnasiums or yoga institutes in closed spaces. Yogic kriyas are to be avoided or planned in open spaces. Users to be put in batches and allocated staggered timings to avoid overcrowding of people while entering and exiting the fitness centre. Each batch could have a gap of 15-30 minutes in between to keep rush at bay and facilitate cleaning and disinfecting process, the release stated. “Those having oxygen saturation level below 95% should not be allowed to exercise,” the release added. Also read: Covid-19 - What you need to know todayMinistry of Health and Family Welfare issues guidelines on preventive measures to contain the spread of COVID-19 in Yoga institutes & gymnasiums.Ministry of Home Affairs has allowed Yoga institutes and gymnasiums to re-open from August 5. pic.twitter.com/sFuXqYBfJU“Individuals must maintain a minimum distance of 6 feet as far as feasible,” the guidelines stated. Wearing of masks and face covers is mandatory, however, those may cause breathing difficulties during exercising, therefore, the government has said people can use a visor as a preventive measure. Frequent hand washing and using hand sanitisers have been emphasised by the MHA which has also advised a strict practice of “respiratory etiquettes”. “Cover mouth and nose while sneezing/coughing with a tissue, cloth or flexed elbow and dispose off used tissue properly,” the guidelines stated. Also read: Congress MP Karti Chidambaram tests positive for Covid-19The owners and managers of gymnasiums and yoga institutes have been directed to plan fitness activities keeping the floor area of 4m2 per person. Equipment and machines should be placed at a distance of 6 feet. Utilisation of outdoor space, if any, has been encouraged. The institutes have also been asked to create specific pathways for entry and exit points into the premises by using floor or wall markings. Regular and timely disinfection of premises, machines, equipment to be carried out. “Promote card-based, contactless payment,” the guidelines read. The government has also called for the need to limit staff on general gym floor or in specific workout areas. Only asymptomatic people are to be allowed admission. Thermal screening of all users to be carried out mandatorily. A minimum distance of six feet to maintained at all time. Staggered batches and proper arrangement at parking spaces, corridors and elevators to avoid overcrowding and ensure social distancing. The administration is required to maintain a detailed account of check-in and check-out time of the users along with their details including name, address and contact information. Spas, sauna, steam baths and swimming pools shall remain shut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-update-yoga-institutes-gyms-to-open-from-august-5-govt-issues-guidelines/story-6tQqhh0aj8rXgwq5JctbNN.html
03-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput case: CM Thackeray not in favour of handing over case to CBI||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and home minister Anil Deshmukh are determined about not handing over actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s suicide case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), despite the pressure mounting on them from various quarters. Both Thackeray and Deshmukh are convinced that the Mumbai Police is capable of handling the probe. In a meeting held at CM Thackeray’s residence on Sunday, it was also decided to take cognisance of the attempts to defame Maharashtra Police and the state government, especially through social media, over the investigation. Brihanmumbai Municipal Commission (BMC) authorities have also clarified on Monday morning that they had quarantined Bihar Police officer Vinay Tiwari the previous evening as per the laid-down coronavirus disease (Covid-19) norms as he was a domestic air traveller and he is at liberty to apply for exemption from home quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-case-cm-thackeray-not-in-favour-of-handing-over-case-to-cbi/story-kOQ5yDRgfhlYoHPY4VsuAL.html
03-08-2020||India||Shiv Sena contributes Rs 1 crore for Ram temple, says fulfilled Balasaheb’s promise||The office of Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday announced that his party - the Shiv Sena - has contributed Rs 1 crore for the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya.Thackeray’s office posted a letter written to the Ram Janmabhoomi Nyas on Twitter which said that on the call of his father, thousands of Shiv Sainiks had taken part in the movement to build temple in Ayodhya and that he too is a devotee of Lord Ram.In the tweet accompanying the letter, Thackeray’s office said that his father and Shiv Sena founder Balasaheb Thackeray had promised to contribute Rs 1 crore for the temple’s construction. “That amount was deposited on July 27.” शिवसेना पक्ष प्रमुख उद्धव बालासाहेब ठाकरे ने अयोध्या यात्रा के दौरान शिवसेना पार्टी की ओर से राममंदिर निर्माण मे १ करोड़ रुपए का योगदान देने का संकल्प किया था। यह १ करोड़ की संकल्प राशि श्री राम जन्मभूमि तीर्थक्षेत्र ट्रस्ट में २७ जुलाई को RTGS कर दी गई है। pic.twitter.com/ubiiBkdV6rShiv Sena MP Anil Desai said that general secretary of the Ram temple trust Champat Rai has acknowledged the amount given by the party.“I am saying all this because Mahant Nritya Gopal Das (Ram temple trust official) had recently told reporters that no contribution was made by the Shiv Sena for the temple,” he said.A grand ceremony has been planned for the foundation stone laying ceremony of the Ram temple. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been invited by the Ram Janmabhoomi trust to lay the foundation stone.A host of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and leaders and functionaries of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) will attend the event.In March, Thackeray had visited Ayodhya to mark the completion of 100 days of his government and had also announced a contribution of Rs 1 crore for the construction of a grand temple. He had also said that while his party has parted ways with the BJP, it remains committed to Hindutva and that the BJP and Hindutva are separate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-contributes-rs-1-crore-for-ram-temple-says-fulfilled-balasaheb-s-promise/story-OLUzuR6b7hThbw6wjSezCN.html
03-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput’s family didn’t raise any suspicion, no evidence against any politician: Mumbai Police commissioner||Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s family did not complain about any lapse in the investigation being carried by Mumbai Police into his death in June, the city’s top police official has said.Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh also said that no politician’s name has come up during the investigation into Rajput’s death and “there is no evidence against any politician from any party”.Singh said the statements of the 34-year-old actor’s father, sister and brother-in-law were recorded on June 16, two days after he was found dead in his apartment in Bandra.Also read | ‘Sushant Singh Rajput had bipolar disorder, was taking medicines for it’: Mumbai Police Commissioner“At that moment, they didn’t raise any suspicion neither they complained about any lapse in our investigation,” Singh was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.A four-member special investigation team from Patna Police has also started a parallel investigation into Rajput’s death after the actor’s father filed a complaint with them. Rajput’s father, KK Singh, has lodged a police complaint against actor Rhea Chakraborty and her family members and Patna Police registered a first information report (FIR) under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including abetment to suicide. His father alleged that Chakraborty and her family kept his son away from his family, handled his bank accounts and took away crores of rupees. His FIR mentioned that when she found Rajput’s bank balance was depleting, she left his house on June 8 and took cash, jewellery and his medical reports along with her, and also blocked his mobile number.The top police official said Mumbai Police have recorded the statements of 56 people in the course of their probe into the case and that all angles are being investigated be it “professional rivalry, financial transactions or his health”.“It has come to surface that he had bipolar disorder, he was undergoing treatment and taking medicines for it. What circumstances led to his death is the subject of our investigation,” Singh said.Also read | No party held at Sushant Singh Rajput’s house on evening before death: Mumbai Police CommissionerChakraborty, the commissioner said, was one of the 56 people questioned by the city police. Her statement was recorded twice and she was called to the police station several times, he said. “I can’t comment about her whereabouts,” he added.Singh also commented on the allegation by Rajput’s father in his police complaint filed in Patna that Rs 15 crore was siphoned off from his son’s account.“During the probe, we found he had Rs 18 cr in his account of which around Rs 4.5 cr are still there. Till now no direct transfer to Rhea Chakraborty’s account found and we still probing,” he said.Singh said also denied claims by the Patna Police that they are not being helped in their investigation into the case even as Bihar’s director general of police (DGP) Gupteshwar Pandey said an Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, in Mumbai to lead their probe, was “forcibly quarantined” by Mumbai’s civic authorities. Vinay Tiwari had reached Mumbai on Sunday to lead the team probing the death of Rajput. It was just one of the points in the turf war playing out between the police forces of the two states.“There is no question of non-cooperation. We are legally examining whether they (Bihar police) have jurisdiction or not in the case. Still, if they have got jurisdiction then they should prove it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-s-family-didn-t-raise-any-suspicion-no-evidence-against-any-politician-mumbai-police-commissioner/story-gM6AOViZipTZxQA8re1pUN.html
03-08-2020||India||From Ayodhya to Lucknow, designer diyas to add glitter to ‘bhoomi pujan’||One lakh designer diyas (earthen lamps) from Etah and Kannauj, handpicked by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, would add glitter during the August 5 Ram temple ‘bhoomi pujan’ event in Ayodhya.  A truckload of these diyas have already been dispatched to the temple town and chairman of Maati Kala Board Dharamvir Prajapati is reaching Ayodhya to ensure that they are distributed to all major temples and for river banks adjacent to the bhoomi pujan site.  Besides these designer diyas, lakhs of others would be lit up in the run-up to the event and during the bhoomi pujan event in Ayodhya following CM Yogi’s call for ‘deepotsav’ (festival of lights) on August 3, 4 and 5 in the temple town. Also read: Why Ayodhya’s Hanumangarhi temple is first on PM Modi’s itineraryAlong with Ayodhya, the Lucknow bungalow and offices of the chief minister, his ministerial colleagues as well the party offices and those held by senior party functionaries and cadres would be also be lit up. Besides Uttar Pradesh, potters from Maharashtra and Rajasthan, have contacted Prajapati and expressed the desire to be associated with the Ram temple event.  “A Mumbai based businessman has contacted me offering to donate one lakh earthen lamps. A big potter from Rajasthan wants to donate a Ram idol worth nearly Rs 60 lakh. It’s going to be ‘Diwali’ on, and in the run-up to, the August 5 event. For everyone from Ayodhya to Lucknow and beyond it would be a momentous occasion. We are especially happy because the potters, who are mostly OBCs, and for whose cause the Maati Kala Board has been set up by our government, would get recognition and respect that they deserve,” said Prajapati, who is busy these days with identifying promising potters to be listed on the board. Prajapatis, an OBC community, traditionally make a living by giving shape to clay - from toys to diyas.   Also read: 20,000 temples get fresh paint. Ram dhun reverberates as Ayodhya decks up for the big dayPrajapati said CM Yogi was so impressed by the designer diyas that he ordered one lakh of them. “When I showed him the designs, Yogiji immediately said he wanted them in Ayodhya. He has big plans for Maati Kala Board and feels it has great potential,” Prajapati said. Pratyush Kumar, the potter from Kannauj whose designer ‘diyas’ impressed Yogi, said he was doubly pleased.  “I am delighted that my lamps would add to the occasion at Ayodhya’s bhoomi pujan. What delights me even more is that our community’s ‘kala’ (art) would now get a wider audience. The setting up of the Maati Kala Board has been a step in the right direction,” said Kumar.  Since 2017, when an estimated 1.7 lakh earthen lamps were lit up on the banks of the Saryu river, to 2019 - when Ayodhya made it to the Guinness records with 5.5 lakh earthen lamps lit up at the same time - the ‘deepotsav’ has been getting bigger each Diwali. This time, deepotsav is being celebrated a few months ahead of Diwali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-ayodhya-to-lucknow-designer-diyas-to-add-glitter-to-bhoomi-pujan/story-qtA8F2XxPlQvoDLXpAnTtK.html
03-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘Proud to have such a brother’: Priyanka wishes Rahul Gandhi on Raksha Bandhan and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Proud to have such a brother’: Priyanka’s emotional message for Rahul on Raksha BandhanCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra posted an emotional message on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan on Monday and said she has learnt “love, patience and patience” from her brother and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. Read more here. Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister Shweta shares priceless Raksha Bandhan memories, Ankita Lokhande showers love. See picsShweta Singh Kirti, the sister of the late Sushant Singh Rajput, shared priceless memories of their Raksha Bandhan celebrations as children. She shared a collage of throwback photos in which Sushant’s sisters were seen fussing over him and tying him rakhis. Read more here. Raksha Bandhan 2020: Iconic Amul girl celebrates Rakhi in ‘maska bandhan’ wayRaksha Bandhan 2020 is being celebrated today, on August 3, this year. It’s a day which celebrates the bond of love between a brother and a sister. Filled with baskets of sweets, chocolates and a whole lot of leg-pulling and gifts, it’s a precious day. Read more here. Microsoft Edge still on second spot, Mozilla Firefox loses market shareGoogle Chrome is still the top browser but Microsoft Edge is continuing to push Firefox down. Read more here. Watch: 82-year-old woman to break 28-year-long fast with Ram temple ‘prasad’Urmila Chaturvedi has been fasting for 28 years now for the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya. Chaturvedi, 82, says she has been surviving on fruits, curd and milk. Watch. Rohit Sharma reacts on Suresh Raina calling him ‘next MS Dhoni’India batsman Suresh Raina recently made some comments regarding Rohit Sharma being the next ‘MS Dhoni’ due to his credentials as a captain. Raina has played under both the players in his career, with Dhoni at CSK and with Rohit at the 2018 Nidahas Trophy. He said that he sees shades of the Chennai Super Kings skipper in Rohit. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-proud-to-have-such-a-brother-priyanka-wishes-rahul-gandhi-on-raksha-bandhan-and-all-the-latest-news/story-UMDBqrLEuN4GTQt09yPiNI.html
03-08-2020||India||‘His blessings first’: Why Ayodhya’s Hanumangarhi temple is PM Modi’s first stop||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the Hanumangarhi temple before heading out for the ceremony to lay the foundation stone for the Ram temple’s construction on August 5 in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya has a special reason, a priest at the 10th-century shrine has said.The Prime Minister and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath will perform a special puja at Hanumangarhi, a temple dedicated to Lord Hanuman, and then go to Ram Janmabhoomi for the bhoomi pujan.“Without Lord Hanuman, no work of Lord Ram can begin. That is why Modi ji and Yogi ji are coming and will do special pooja at Hanumangarhi temple and then will lay the foundation for the construction of Ram temple at Janmabhoomi Sthal with the blessings of Hanuman ji,” Madhuvan Das, a Hanumangarhi temple, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Das said no work has been done without the blessings of Hanuman, a devotee of Lord Ram, so the first blessing will be sought from him for the smooth construction of the Ram temple.Mahant Raju Das, the head priest of Hanumangarhi, said they have been allocated seven minutes for Prime Minister’s rituals at the temple, according to ANI.Vedic priests will escort the Prime Minister while reciting mantras to the Hanumangarhi temple where the ceremony will also include prayers for his wellbeing and to reduce the spread of the coronavirus pandemic in the country. The head priest said only four priests are likely to conduct the prayers in the temple.“We have to follow social distancing, these are the orders we have received from the Prime Minister’s Office. So, following the norms, no one will be allowed to touch the Prime Minister neither will they offer him ‘prasad’,” he said.The temple town has been decked up ahead of the August 5 ceremony when PM Modi will lay the foundation stone for construction of the Ram temple.The construction of Ram temple will begin after the ceremony to lay the foundation stone and several dignitaries from the political and religious fields are expected to take part.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/his-blessings-first-why-ayodhya-s-hanumangarhi-temple-is-first-on-pm-modi-s-itinerary/story-6l8SN3MJn1d4QkHicZQW2J.html
03-08-2020||India||RSS affiliate wants BCCI to reconsider Chinese sponsorship for IPL||The Swadeshi Jagran Manch (SJM) has demanded the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) should reconsider its decision to allow Chinese major Vivo to sponsor the Indian Premier League (IPL) against the backdrop of the border standoff. SJM, an affiliate of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) that was at the forefront of a campaign to boycott Chinese goods, has taken umbrage at BCCI’s decision to allow Chinese sponsorship and said Indians should consider boycotting the premier cricket series if the decision isn’t reversed. The national co-convenor of SJM, Ashwani Mahajan, said on Monday BCCI’s decision went against the “current mood of the nation”. “The call for boycott of Chinese goods is no longer just a demand from the SJM, it is a call being supported by ordinary citizens in the wake of what transpired between India and China,” he said. The cricket board should be sensitive towards the nation and its security concerns, Mahajan said. “The whole world is boycotting China, IPL is sheltering them. They should understand that nothing is above the nation, not even cricket,” he added. Following the June 15 clash between Indian and Chinese troops in Galwan Valley that left 20 Indian soldiers dead, RSS and its affiliates have pushed the government to opt for a more muscular policy to deal with China and intensified their campaign to revisit bilateral trade ties. Lending support to the demand for boycotting Chinese goods, RSS general secretary Suresh Bhaiyyaji Joshi told an RSS publication last month the campaign to not buy Chinese products “has happened naturally, not due to a mass movement”, implying the decision wasn’t enforced. The opposition too has criticised BCCI’s decision. Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala tweeted, “Wither #AatmaNirbharBharatAbhiyan . Welcome back Cricket-China-profiteering and double standards. #BJPExposed”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-affiliate-wants-bcci-to-reconsider-chinese-sponsorship-for-ipl/story-QeTejng4UhvLFXWzMu1zMP.html
03-08-2020||India||Chhattisgarh: 65-year-old arrested on charges of molesting five minors||Chhattisgarh Police has arrested a senior citizen (65) on charges of molesting five minors at his house in Balod district. He has been booked under Sections 375 (rape) and 354A (sexual harassment) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, and sent to judicial custody on Sunday. Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP), Balod, DR Porte said that the accused is a barber and used to live in a village under the jurisdiction of Arjunda police station. “The minor girls used to visit the accused Rekhuram Sen’s house to watch television. He molested them between July 20 and 30,” said the ASP. “The incidents occurred in the afternoon, when most of the villagers would go to work in fields. No one was suspicious of his activities because he is a senior citizen,” he added. The crime came to light on Saturday, when one of the rape survivors narrated her ordeal to a family member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-65-year-old-arrested-on-charges-of-molesting-five-minors/story-gyRocW9TqkWvMghKMwgJwN.html
03-08-2020||India||Tripura CPI(M) leader, 2 others booked on criminal conspiracy, rumour mongering after post against BJP||CPI(M) leader and former lawmaker from Tripura, Jitendra Chaudhury, and two others were on Sunday charged with criminal conspiracy, rumour-mongering and spreading communal disharmony over a social media post alleging BJP supporters broke a statue of an indigenous woman. The 17-feet long statue was found broken on Saturday morning in Khumulwng, the headquarters of the Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council (TTAADC). Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) secretary Mihir Sarkar lodged the complaint, claiming that the statue fell down because of heavy rainfall and storm. “ ....with an ill and perverse motive and malafide intention, one of the political parties of the state, Communist Party of India (Marxist) had tried to fraudulently distort the facts and has tried to put the blame upon BJP and RSS as is clear from Facebook posts of CPIM Paschim Tripura Zilla,” Sarkar said in his complaint. “We see it as a criminal effort to spread communal disharmony among the different communities of the state and as it appears a deep conspiracy has been hatched by the CPI ( M) to promote and spread communal violence in the state,” Sarkar said. Sarkar submitted the complaint at West Agartala Police Station from where it was referred to Radhapur police station in Khumulwng as the incident occurred in that place. “We took an FIR against three including former MP Jitendra Chaudhury under Section 120(b), 153(a), 505 (2) of the Indian Penal Code. We are investigating the matter,” Suman Majumder, Jirania’s sub-divisional police officer, said. The administrators of the Facebook page of CPI(M) Tripura and that of CPI(M) Paschim Tripura Zilla were also charged.Tripura police appealed to people not to believe in rumours and warned that legal action would be taken against the violators. “Rumours are being spread in social media about one broken statue at Khumulwng, PS Radhapur, West district with an attempt to cause disharmony among the communities. Actually it fell down due to heavy rain and storm. A police party was present at that time when it fell down. A general diary entry has been recorded in the Radhapur police station in this regard,” the police posted on its social media page.Chaudhury had written on Facebook that the statue was vandalised and the state has been transformed into a laboratory of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and BJP to give a shape to their Hindu Rashtra model. “I didn’t say that they (BJP) did this. I said that since the formation of their government, their culture of violence began the journey with vandalising of statues of Lenin, Karl Marx and even last ruler Maharaja Bir Bikram. The saffron party polluted cultural, political and social environment of our state,” he said later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-cpi-m-leader-2-others-booked-on-criminal-conspiracy-rumour-mongering-after-post-against-bjp/story-yTfHjua6IGZk7DHJrOo7qK.html
03-08-2020||India||Lifer who tested positive for Covid-19 flees from custody in West Bengal||A man (53), sentenced for life and released on parole, fled while being taken to a hospital from a remote place in Darjeeling hills in north Bengal after he had tested coronavirus disease (Covid-19) positive.The man had murdered his wife in 2011 and was sentenced for life. He was released on parole for a month from Jalpaiguri Central Jail in north Bengal and went home in remote Lodhama village in Darjeeling district almost a week ago. On Sunday evening, when he was being taken to Tribeni Covid-19 hospital in Kalimpong, about 100 kilometres (km) from his native village, he managed to flee from the ambulance. There was no security in the ambulance, a jail official said. “The convict had asked the ambulance driver to stop in a wooded area. It was dark and he fled. A search operation has been launched,” said Subodh Dutta, officer-in-charge of Lodhoma police station. Even though his family members, including his daughter and elder brother, and some villagers have already been quarantined, he had spent a night with another convict in Darjeeling, who was also released on parole along with him. “We don’t know how many people he had come in contact with. He tested Covid-19 positive on Friday, but the ambulance arrived on Sunday. He absconded because of lack of security in the ambulance,” said Dutta. S Poonambalam, district magistrate, of Darjeeling said: “We will take up the matter with the police and trace him.” Senior officials of Jalpaiguri central jail said that some convicts, who have been released on parole or have completed their jail term, have tested Covid-19 positive after reaching home. “Many inmates and officials have also tested Covid-19 positive in the overcrowded jail,” said another official. A convict from Teesta Bazaar, who was released on July 20 after completing a seven-year jail term, also tested Covid-19 positive after reaching home. Abhishek Tiwari, DM, Jalpaiguri, however, said the district authorities are yet to be intimated about the convict’s escape.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-lifer-who-tested-positive-for-covid-19-flees-from-custody/story-EEHL8uVgxRbkCXiD7hn2cO.html
03-08-2020||India||‘Proud to have such a brother’: Priyanka’s emotional message for Rahul on Raksha Bandhan||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra posted an emotional message on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan on Monday and said she has learnt “love, patience and patience” from her brother and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. Priyanka posted a picture with Rahul and said she is proud to have a brother like him.“I have learned love, truth and patience from my brother while living together in every happiness and sorrow. I am proud to have such a brother. Heartiest greetings to all the countrymen for the holy festival #Rakshabandhan. #RakshaBandhan,” she tweeted. Earlier in the day, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi extended Rakhi greetings on Twitter and posted a picture of him hugging his sister Priyanka. “Wishing every one a happy #RakshaBandhan,” Gandhi had tweeted.  Also read: PM Modi, Lata Mangeshkar share Raksha Bandhan greetingsहर सुख-दुख में साथ रहते हुए मैंने अपने भाई से प्रेम, सत्य और धैर्य का साथ सीखा है। मुझे ऐसा भाई मिलने पर गर्व है।समस्त देशवासियों को पावन पर्व #रक्षाबंधन की हार्दिक शुभकामनाएं।#RakshaBandhan pic.twitter.com/KWTGpTZQYyLeaders and politicians from across the country have been extending greetings on the auspicious, joyous festival of Raksha Bandhan today. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that the wishes and blessings from country’s ‘Nari Shakti’ on the occasion have humbled him and infused him with strength.The prime minister thanked legendary singer Lata Mangeshkar for her Rakhi wishes and said her “emotional message” is inspiring and provided him with energy. “Today, I want you to promise us that you will take the country to greater heights,” she said in her message which included glimpses of her interactions with PM Modi on various occasions,” Mangeshkar said in her message to PM Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/proud-to-have-such-a-brother-priyanka-s-emotional-message-for-rahul-gandhi-on-raksha-bandhan/story-YUsupCiiPpcPZ0DH5c70HL.html
03-08-2020||India||Positivity rate comes down by at least 50% in Bihar||The positive rate of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) – the percentage of people testing positive out of those tested – has come down by at least 50% between July 15 and August 1, even though there has been a 63% surge in the number of cases during the corresponding period. The positivity rate, which was 15.17% on July 15 had dipped to 7.75% on August 1, indicates the extent of the viral outbreak, according to state the health department. The declining positivity rate, said officials, was due to increased testing of swab samples. Bihar, of late, has been able to ramp up its daily testing to more than 3.5 times since July 15, when it had tested 10,052 samples, as compared to 35,619 on August 1. The state has tested 6,12,415 samples to date. Bihar’s positivity rate has declined since July 27, when it was 14.53% and 14,236 tests were carried out on that day. The turnaround happened after Pratyaya Amrit replaced Uday Singh Kumawat, as the state principal secretary, health, on July 27. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, who was sore with Kumawat’s performance, had also chided him earlier. “When Delhi can do 38,000 tests per day, why can’t Bihar?” the angry CM is said to have fumed during a review meeting on the management of Covid-19 and floods that ravaged the state and had asked Kumawat to quit if he could not take care of the health department. Kumawat was unavailable for his comment. “The decline in positivity rate has been possible because we have been able to ramp up our daily testing across the state. I am still not satisfied with what has been achieved. I would like to get it down to less than 5%,” said Amrit. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), a positivity rate of less than 5% — for two weeks — indicates that an epidemic is under control, he said, stressing on the CM’s mantra for increased daily testing. Dr. Tanmay Mahapatra, a Bihar-based epidemiologist, who had had a stint of research in the United States of America (USA) on infectious disease epidemiology, however, cautioned that the declining positivity alone was not enough. “Declining positivity may be a good sign in the sense that daily testing is being conducted more. Declining positivity, along with improving recovery (64% as on Sunday), and reducing the spread of the virus are all a good sign,” he said. “Test positivity may decrease due to many factors. The strengthening healthcare system to handle the upsurge, coupled with syndromic surveillance and home isolation are the need of the hour,” he added. Bihar reported 2,762 Covid cases on Sunday, as the tally climbed to 57,270, including 322 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-positivity-rate-comes-down-by-at-least-50-between-july-15-and-august-1/story-Gb0OfTKEoYayj5tct4ld9L.html
03-08-2020||India||‘Emotional message’: PM Modi, Lata Mangeshkar share Raksha Bandhan greetings||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and India’s timeless nightingale and legendary singer Lata Mangeshkar exchanged Raksha Bandhan greetings on Monday. The prime minister described Mangeshkar’s message as emotional and said it has infused him with inspiration and immense energy. “Lata Didi, this emotional message of yours on this auspicious occasion of Raksha Bandhan is an inspiration and energy. With the blessings of crores of mothers and sisters, our country will touch new heights and achieve new successes. May you be healthy and live long, this is my prayer to God,” PM Modi tweeted.  Also read: PM Modi says India’s Nari Shakti provides him with strengthलता दीदी, रक्षा बंधन के इस शुभ अवसर पर आपका यह भावपूर्ण संदेश असीम प्रेरणा और ऊर्जा देने वाला है। करोड़ों माताओं-बहनों के आशीर्वाद से हमारा देश नित नई ऊंचाइयों को छुएगा, नई-नई सफलताएं प्राप्त करेगा। आप स्वस्थ रहें और दीर्घायु हों, ईश्वर से मेरी यही प्रार्थना है। @mangeshkarlata https://t.co/pDHg0y3fDTIn a video message, Mangeshkar said she couldn’t send her Rakhi to PM Modi because of the Covid-19 crisis. She lauded the prime minister for his tireless work toward the growth and development of the country. “The countrymen will never forget your work and your words. Lakhs and crores of women of this country have raised their hands toward you today on the occasion of Rakhi but are unable to tie the thread. Today, I want you to promise us that you will take the country to greater heights,” she said in her message which included glimpses of her interactions with PM Modi on various occasions. Earlier in the day, PM Modi acknowledged Rakhi greetings from spiritual and humanitarian leader Mata Amritanandamayi and said that blessings from her and India’s ‘nari shakti’ (woman power) give him strength.“Respected @Amritanandamayi Ji, I am most humbled by your special Raksha Bandhan greetings. It is my honour and privilege to work for our great nation. Blessings from you, and from India’s Nari Shakti, give me great strength. They are also vital for India’s growth and progress,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/emotional-message-pm-modi-lata-mangeshkar-share-raksha-bandhan-greetings/story-8kprUYywURtbDVPQ9ftg7J.html
03-08-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||India’s home minister, and the second most important and powerful man in the country has contracted the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Amit Shah tweeted out the information himself, and said that while his health is fine, he is being admitted to a hospital on the recommendation of doctors. He also asked everyone who met him in the past few days to get themselves tested. This writer wishes Shah a rapid recovery, but his infection is significant because it highlights both the prevalence of the disease in the Capital, and the risks involved in what would have been considered normal before the pandemic.First, almost one in four people in Delhi show antibodies to the coronavirus disease, according to a recent survey of all of Delhi’s 11 districts, indicating that they have been exposed to it in the past (and infected, perhaps without showing any symptoms at all). It also means that these people have immunity against the disease, at least in the short-term — perhaps as long as their antibodies last, and maybe longer, according to Swedish research that shows that T-cells, which fight infected cells and have long memories, are there in roughly twice the number of people in whom antibodies are found.The fact that Shah has been infected points to the fact that the disease is all around us and that anyone could get infected at anytime. This is true for Mumbai as well, where another Amit (Amitabh Bachchan) was infected with the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19 (he was discharged from a hospital on Sunday), and where a limited sero survey (antibody test) in three of the city’s 23 wards showed that around 40% of the people in the city have been exposed to the disease. Caveat: this survey is not as representative as the Delhi one.A high prevalence of antibodies in the population may be good from the perspective of building immunity (and achieving herd immunity, the level of infection in a population that makes it difficult for the virus to travel easily from one person to another), but it is still dangerous for the old, infirm, and those with comorbidities.Second, people who continue to go about their work, even if they take adequate precautions, stand a high chance of getting infected. Shah continued to meet people, and, with Delhi’s infections peaking in June, got involved in the Capital’s fight against the disease — even visiting the LNJP Hospital, Delhi’s main facility to treat Covid-19 patients. It isn’t clear how Shah got infected — contrary to what the health ministry continues to claim, the disease has been in community transmission mode for a few months now, so it is difficult to trace the chain of infection. Shah also attended a cabinet meeting last week — the one in which the new National Education Policy was passed — which means everyone else who attended that meeting needs to isolate themselves and also go in for a test.India is currently in a phase the government calls Unlock 3.0, referring to more activities being allowed (and the scrapping of a night-time curfew), but Shah’s infection indicates that it isn’t going to be business-as-usual anytime soon. Participating in social activities, for work or for pleasure, increases the risk of contracting the infection. Wearing masks (all the time one is outside or at work), and practising social distancing and hand hygiene is the only way to prevent being infected.Interestingly, gyms and public transport, including metros, in countries and cities where these are functioning, have so far not been linked to any major clusters of infection — the first, according to a Norwegian study and the second, according to a recent article in the New York Times — but this writer believes that visiting a gym or taking a metro will come with risks for at least some time.Those of us who can avoid the risk altogether — through social isolation, WFH (work from home), video-conferencing — should, and those of us who cannot (I suspect Shah belongs to this category), should take adequate precautions and hope the mathematics of chance is in our favour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-GGV2AGisCXLzUlxtIn6WFJ.html
03-08-2020||India||‘Saddened by three-language formula in NEP 2020, won’t allow it’: Tamil Nadu CM Palaniswami||Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said on Monday that he is saddened by the three-language formula adopted by the central government in the recently-announced National Education Policy (NEP) 2020.“We are saddened by the three-language formula introduced by the central government in National Education Policy (NEP) 2020. Our state is already following two-language policy (of Tamil and English) for decades and there will be no changes in it,” Palaniswami said after chairing a cabinet meeting in Chennai.“I request Prime Minister to pay heed to the unanimous demand of the people of Tamil Nadu to reconsider the three language policy and allow states to make a decision as per their own policy,” he further said.Palaniswami’s statement comes in the backdrop of opposition to the NEP in Tamil Nadu on the grounds that the policy allegedly imposes Hindi and Sanskrit.The MK Stalin-led Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and many Opposition parties in Tamil Nadu have opposed the new education policy and want a review of the sweeping reforms it has proposed.Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank had said on Sunday that the Centre will not impose any language on any state through NEP. Nishank posted the clarification through a tweet in Tamil while replying to former Union minister from Tamil Nadu Pon Radhakrishnan.“I once again like to insist that the Central government will not impose any language on any state,” Nishank said.On Saturday, the DMK chief said the policy was an attempt at alleged imposition of Hindi and Sanskrit and vowed to fight against it by joining hands with like-minded political parties and chief ministers of other states.Puducherry chief minister V Narayanasamy has also termed the NEP as “chaotic” and said it has several unanswered questions. He claimed that the policy has no specific and clear direction on promoting employment and has also not clarified whether the financial responsibility to implement it would fall on the state governments.“What is relevant for northern States cannot be taken as suitable for the southern states,” Narayanasamy said.Charging the Centre with seeking to “impose” Sanskrit through NEP, he also said it was fomenting ‘confusion’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saddened-by-three-language-formula-in-nep-2020-won-allow-it-tamil-nadu-cm-palaniswami/story-wCF0tGGpxPLfHjIYykjEmN.html
03-08-2020||India||Congress MP Karti Chidambaram tests positive for Covid-19||Congress MP Karti Chidambaram on Monday said he has tested positive for Covid-19. In a tweet, the son of former finance minister P Chidambaram said his symptoms are mild and he has gone into self-isolation on medical advise. “I have just tested positive for #Covid. My symptoms are mild and as per medical advice I am under home quarantine. I would urge all those who have recently been in contact with me to follow medical protocol,” Karti tweeted. This comes a day after Union home minister Amit Shah and Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa tested for coronavirus on Sunday. Shah is the first union cabinet minister to have tested positive for the disease. I have just tested positive for #Covid. My symptoms are mild and as per medical advice I am under home quarantine. I would urge all those who have recently been in contact with me to follow medical protocol.“After showing initial symptoms, I underwent a test for coronavirus and the report came out positive. My health is fine but I am being admitted to the hospital on the advice of doctors,” Shah had tweeted. Karnataka CM took to Twitter and shared about his health. His daughter, BY Padmavati, is also reported to have contracted the disease. “I have tested positive for coronavirus. Whilst I am fine, I am being hospitalised as a precaution on the recommendation of doctors. I request those who have come in contact with me recently to be observant and exercise self-quarantine,” Yediyurappa tweeted.Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan is also among some of the top political leaders to have tested positive for the virus recently. He had urged people not to hide their symptoms and come forward for testing to ensure timely treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-mp-karti-chidambaram-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-kAzmKZD2rIoCdCYoAoSF3L.html
03-08-2020||India||‘Blessings from India’s ‘nari shakti’ give me great strength’: PM Modi on Raksha Bandhan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday acknowledged Raksha Bandhan greetings from spiritual and humanitarian leader Mata Amritanandamayi and said that blessings from her and India’s ‘nari shakti’ (woman power) give him strength. In a video message, Mata Amritanandamayi said that amid the pandemic, the country is facing many challenges from economic crisis to threat from neighbours. She hoped that the prime minister gets more courage to deal with the many challenges and take appropriate measures in the welfare of the country and its citizens amid such trying times. “The prime minister is already doing laudable, notable work, On the occasion of Raksha Bandhan, I pray to God to bless the prime minister with more courage and help him take on the challenges ahead,” she said.  Also read: ‘Sacred thread of love’: President Kovind, PM Modi extend wishes on Raksha BandhanRespected @Amritanandamayi Ji, I am most humbled by your special Raksha Bandhan greetings. It is my honour and privilege to work for our great nation.Blessings from you, and from India’s Nari Shakti, give me great strength. They are also vital for India’s growth and progress. https://t.co/FoLQdjrxEiThe prime minister said he is humbled by Mata Amritanandamayi’s greetings. “It is my honour and privilege to work for our great nation. Blessings from you, and from India’s Nari Shakti, give me great strength. They are also vital for India’s growth and progress,” PM tweeted out.Earlier in the day, PM Modi extended Raksha Bandhan greetings to the countrymen.India woke up to one of the most loved festivals celebrated by Hindus every year - Raksha Bandhan. The festival marks the celebration of love between brothers and sisters and honour the bond between siblings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blessings-from-india-s-nari-shakti-give-me-great-strength-pm-modi-s-raksha-bandhan-message/story-KpA1xRxltxGyCEL8tyHhEJ.html
03-08-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 tally surges past 1.8 million mark, death toll at 38,135||With 52,972 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 771 deaths in a single day, India’s infection tally went past the 1.8 million mark on Monday, the Union health ministry data showed.There are 579,972 actives Covid-19 cases and 38,135 people have died of the viral disease across the country till date, according to the health’s ministry’s dashboard showed at 8am. The infection tally stands at 1,803,695.There were 40,574 patients, who were cured between Sunday and morning, taking India’s recovery tally to 1,186,203 and the recovery rate to 65.76%.The number of people who have recovered from Covid-19 in India crossed the 1.1 million mark over the weekend. Covid-19 data from across the country showed that 36,569 people recovered on Saturday and 51,255 recovered on Sunday.The case fatality ratio (CFR) is at 2.12% and the doubling rate of cases or the number of days it takes for infections to double across the country is 21.2 days as of Sunday night.The Union health ministry said on Sunday coordinated implementation of “effective containment strategy, aggressive testing and standardised clinical management protocols” resulted in a consistent trend of rising recovery rate and progressively reducing CFR.Recovery and fatality rates from the top 10 countries with the highest cases show only the United States — at around 50% — has a lower rate of recovery than India.Italy and Spain, which were hit hard in the second peak of the global pandemic and accounted for larger populations of more vulnerable people, have a CFR of over 14% and 8%, respectively.The country’s maximum caseload, which is about 80% of the cases, is restricted to 50 districts out of about 740 total districts. New hot spots emerging in three large-population states of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and West Bengal.The government has said it is now shifting its focus to emerging hotspots and rural pockets of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-tally-surges-past-1-8-million-mark-death-toll-at-38-135/story-mhvq9r2FBGeUIvmOjDyAFP.html
03-08-2020||India||Trial court must also record signs and gestures of hearing and speech impaired witness: HC||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) has held that while recording the testimony of a hearing and speech-impaired witness, the trial courts must also record the signs and gestures made by the challenged person along with the interpretation put on the signs and gestures. Justice VK Jadhav said recording details of signs and gestures made by the witness was mandatory under Section 119 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, which lays down the procedure for recording the testimony of a hearing and speech-impaired witness. The judge granted bail to a gang-rape convict, Abdul Salim, after noticing that the trial court did not record in its evidence the hearing and speech-impaired survivor the details of signs and gestures made by her while testifying before the court along with the interpretation put on the signs and gestures by a special teacher. “On careful perusal of prosecution evidence, particularly the evidence of victim and evidence of the special teacher, it appears that the learned judge of the trial court has not taken any pains to record the gestures made by the victim during the course of recording her evidence nor there is any reference as to how those gestures came to be interpreted by the special teacher.” Abdul moved HC after Nanded sessions court on October 3, 2019, had convicted him for gang-raping the girl with hearing and speech impairment along with two juveniles, and sentenced him to 10-year imprisonment. He had filed a plea for bail during the pendency of his appeal and his lawyer pointed out the lacunae in recording the evidence of the survivor while urging the HC to suspend the substantive sentence headed down to the convict and release him on bail. Justice Jadhav found substance in the argument that the trial court had failed to comply with the mandate of Section 119 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 Besides, the judge also took note of the fact that the evidence of the doctor, who examined the survivor, was not clear and the medical evidence did not support the prosecution case of gang rape. HC also noted that though the opinion of the doctor about the possibility of forcible intercourse was unclear, he had stated clearly that he did not find any marks of struggle on the person of the survivor. Justice Jadhav was also annoyed with the manner in which the identification parade was conducted by the investigation officer, by calling a few boys in the age group between 18 and 20 years at the police station and asking the survivor to identify the three culprits. “This particular procedure is unknown to the criminal law, violating all norms and guidelines for conducting the identification parade,” said Justice Jadhav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trial-court-must-also-record-signs-and-gestures-of-hearing-and-speech-impaired-witness-hc/story-2ZzM1wso9iTBr38aXuPc6I.html
03-08-2020||India||Serum Institute gets regulatory nod for phase 2/3 trials of Oxford Covid vaccine||The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has given approval to Serum Institute of India (SII) for conducting phase II and III clinical trials of Oxford University-Astra Zeneca vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country, the Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MoH&FW) said on Monday. A senior official in the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) said, “The subject expert committee that went through the data and protocol submitted for the trial was satisfied with the results and based on their opinion the DCGI permitted its trial in India.” On July 20, the initial trial results for the vaccine candidate, Covishield, which were made public by Oxford University had shown promising results. The preliminary trial results published in the medical journal The Lancet said that the vaccine candidate was safe and induced immune reaction against SARS-CoV-2, which causes Covid-19, and protect healthy people from infection. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage “… As soon as they (DCGI) grant us permission, we will begin with the trials for the vaccine in India. We will soon start manufacturing the vaccine in large volumes,” Adar Poonawalla, CEO, SII, had said. SII, the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer by the number of doses produced and sold globally, has entered a manufacturing partnership with biopharma major AstraZeneca to produce the Oxford vaccine. The company plans to start human clinical trials in India with about 5,000 participants. “One billion doses of the AstraZeneca Oxford vaccine will be produced over the next one year. The vaccines will be for India and middle-and low-income countries across the world,” Poonawalla had said. The vaccine is made from a weakened version of a common cold adenovirus taken from Chimpanzee and genetically modified to make it impossible for it to infect humans. Researchers added genetic material to ChAdOx1 from the Sars-CoV-2 virus’s surface protein, spike glycoprotein (S), which helps the virus to bind to Ace2 receptors to enter human cells and cause an infection. The new trial included 1,077 healthy adults aged between 18 and 55 years with no history of Covid-19, and took place in five hospitals in the United Kingdom (UK) between April 23 and May 21.The data that was published in The Lancet covered the first 56 days of the trial and is ongoing. The widely-followed trial is currently at an advanced stage, with trials in the UK, Brazil and South Africa. A collaboration has already been reached between Oxford, the UK government and AstraZeneca to produce the vaccine on a mass scale if the final results are also positive. “India is one of the vaccine hubs globally, and wherever the Covid-19 vaccine is developed we will take lead in its manufacturing. The vaccine is the ultimate solution to prevent Covid-19 transmission even though India has managed to control the outbreak very well so far,” said Dr. Vinod Paul, a Niti Aayog member and the chairman of the Empowered Group on the government’s medical emergency management plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-gets-regulatory-nod-for-phase-2-3-trials-of-oxford-covid-vaccine/story-c0bWnh5aEv74GlW6OnuaoI.html
03-08-2020||India||While people boycott Chinese products, IPL to retain Chinese sponsors: Omar Abdullah||National Conference (NC) leader Omar Abdullah on Sunday pointed out that while people were boycotting Chinese goods in the wake of incursions in Ladakh by the neighbouring country, the IPL cricket tournament has been allowed to retain all its sponsors, including those from the neighbouring country.“Chinese cellphone makers will continue as title sponsors of the IPL while people are told to boycott Chinese products. It’s no wonder China is thumbing it’s nose at us when we are so confused about how to handle Chinese money/investment/sponsorship/advertising,” he wrote on Twitter.The former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister was reacting to the news about the Indian Premier League (IPL) Governing Council’s decision to retain all its sponsors, including Chinese mobile company VIVO, in the event to be held in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) from September 19 to November 10.“BCCI/IPL governing council has decided to retain all sponsors including the big Chinese ones. I feel bad for those idiots who threw their Chinese made TVs off their balconies only to see this happen,” Abdullah wrote on the microblogging website.In another tweet, he said “we always suspected that we really can’t manage” without the sponsorship and advertising of Chinese companies.“The sheer suddenness of the move, the unexpected nature of the move, the unpredictability of the move. They don’t know what hit them. Now the Chinese will know.......... what we always suspected that we really can’t manage without their sponsorship & advertising,” the NC leader said, while referring to the remarks of a news anchor of a private television channel. PTI SSB RC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/while-people-boycott-chinese-products-ipl-to-retain-chinese-sponsors-omar-abdullah/story-OJjLzVa7RBfkkziH1MZVXJ.html
03-08-2020||India||People in flood relief camps to be tested for Covid-19 in Bihar||Bihar, grappling with Covid-19 and floods, has decided to test those staying in its flood relief camps for Sars CoV-2 virus, which causes the coronavirus disease.The tests will be done through rapid antigen detection (RAD) kit, which gives out instant result, though experts say it has a fair possibility of giving false negative result. “Testing people before getting them into our relief camps will allow us to segregate the infected people from healthy ones, so that we can shift them to other camps, which will also function as Covid-19 isolation camp for them. This will minimise the risk of spread of infection,” said Pratyaya Amrit, Bihar’s principal secretary of departments of health and disaster management. The initiative will also help Bihar ramp up testing of samples. Bihar scaled up its daily testing rate almost five times in the last one month. As against 7,291 tests done on July 1, Bihar clocked 35,619 tests on August 1. Efforts were on to increase it further, said officials. The state reported 2,762 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking its overall case tally to 57,270, with 322 fatalities so far.The state government has set up 19 relief camps across four worst-hit districts by floods. Gopalganj had 11 relief camps, East Champaran two, Samastipur five and one in Khagaria districts. A total of 26,734 people, displaced by floods, were residing in these camps, as of Sunday, according to information provided by Bihar’s disaster management department (DMD). The national and state disaster response force have evacuated 4,03,269 in the flood-hit areas of Bihar so far. A communique, quoting DMD additional secretary M Ramachandrudu said that 2 lakh families, affected by floods, had been paid Rs 6,000 each as gratuitous relief so far, costing the state exchequer Rs 120 crore. The money, he said, had been paid directly into the bank accounts of the beneficiaries. A population of around 50 lakh in 14 out of Bihar’s 38 districts is affected by floods in 113 blocks and 1,059 panchayats. Sitamarhi, Sheohar, Supaul, Kishanganj, Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur, Gopalganj, East Champaran, West Champaran, Khagaria, Saran, Samastipur, Siwan and Madhubani are the districts affected by floods in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-in-flood-relief-camps-to-be-tested-for-covid-19-in-bihar/story-ahKQt1PrOtJ8qQoAvWOI4N.html
03-08-2020||India||‘I will be on the banks of Saryu river’: Uma Bharti to skip Ram temple event||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader uma Bharti has said that she will be skipping the groudbreaking ceremony for the Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5. The decision, she said on Twitter, has been taken for the safety of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other people in the wake of Covid-19.“Since the time I’ve heard about Amit Shah and other BJP leaders testing positive for Covid-19, I am worried about those who will attend the foundation stone laying ceremony in Ayodhya, especially PM Modi,” Bharti tweeted in Hindi. कल जब से मैंने श्री @AmitShah जी तथा @BJP4UP के नेताओं के बारे में कोरोना पोज़िटिव होने का सुना तभी से मै अयोध्या में मंदिर के शिलान्यास में उपस्थित लोगों के लिये ख़ासकर @narendramodi जी के लिये चिंतित हूँ ।“Hence, I have requested the Ram Janmabhoomi Nyas officials to allow me to remain along the banks of the Saryu river when the ceremony takes place,” she further said in her subsequent tweet.Also read: Phase-1 of Ayodhya station modelled on Ram Mandir to be completed by June 2021Bharti said that she will start from Bhopal today. “I might come in contact with some Covid-19 positive patient in Ayodhya. “So, I will keep away from the place where PM Modi and hundreds of others will gather. I will visit Ramlalla only after these people leave,” she said in another tweet. मै भोपाल से आज रवाना होऊंगी । कल शाम अयोध्या पहुँचने तक मेरी किसी संक्रमित व्यक्ति से मुलाकात हो सकती हैं ऐसी स्थिति में जहाँ @narendramodi और सेकडो लोग उपस्थित हो मै उस स्थान से दूरी रखूँगी । तथा @narendramodi और सभी समूह के चले जाने के बाद ही मै रामलला के दर्शन करने पहुँचूँगी।The BJP leader further said that she has informed Ram Janmabhoomi Nyas officials to remove her name from the ceremony programme.Bharti had posted 12 tweets on Sunday confirming her presence in Ayodhya. She had then talked about the “interview offers” she has received, but said she doesn’t want to mention her efforts in a movement “that has been going on for 500 years”.“It is a matter of pride for me that the temple’s construction will begin in my lifetime. Our honourable Prime Minister will inaugurate the event on behalf of all Indians,” she had said.Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat and a host of senior RSS and BJP leaders have been invited for the event. The groundbreaking ceremony that marks the beginning of the construction of the Ram temple at Ayodhya.LK Advani and senior leader Murli Manohar Joshi - the two senior leaders who were the face of the Ramjanmabhoomi movement - will attend the event through video conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-will-be-on-the-banks-of-saryu-river-uma-bharti-to-skip-ram-temple-event/story-YmV68RPK5PvA0SkaE9AX9H.html
03-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: President Kovind, PM Modi extend wishes on Raksha Bandhan and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Sacred thread of love’: President Kovind, PM Modi extend wishes on Raksha BandhanPresident Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were among several leaders who extended their wishes on Raksha Bandhan, a festival celebrating the bond between brothers and sisters, on Monday. Read moreIndia, China plan protocol to avoid skirmishesAlthough military commanders are negotiating disengagement of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) along the 1,597 km Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, diplomats from both countries are considering the option of putting patrolling protocols in place to avoid a repeat of the June 15 Galwan Valley flare-up. Read moreGoogle Pixel 4a to launch today, expected specs, price and moreGoogle will finally launch its affordable ‘Pixel 4a’ smartphone later today. Google announced the launch of a new phone which is most likely the Pixel 4a. This phone has been delayed for months with its debut first expected in May this year. Read moreClip of bathing baby tapir taking will make you want to take a dip in waterTo get respite from soaring temperature, taking a shower is often the easy way out. However, it’s not just humans who love taking a long dip in the waters. Case in point is the video of this baby tapir enjoying a cool dip in the water. Read moreRaksha Bandhan 2020: Books to read and share with your siblings this Rakhi festivalLiterature and fiction serve as a mirror to real life, as they say, and often, literature does a better job of portraying reality and human relationships than reality itself. In the real word, intentions are misunderstood, bonds fray, memories fade. Read moreThe Ayodhya dispute: A detailed timeline from 1528 to 2020Prime Minister Narendra Modi is all set to lay the foundation stone of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya on 5th August, 2020. Preparations are underway in full swing in the temple town for the grand ‘bhoomi poojan’. Read more‘Shahid Afridi used Sachin Tendulkar’s bat to score fastest century, it made him a batsman’Just into his second ODI, Shahid Afridi did the unthinkable when he scored a century of 37-ball against Sri Lanka in Nairobi. It was once the fastest ODI century of all time, a record that stood for 18 years before New Zealand all-rounder Corey Anderson bettered it by a ball against West Indies in 2014. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-president-kovind-pm-modi-extend-wishes-on-raksha-bandhan-and-all-the-latest-news/story-IIQVLALGybDm28e6G1nOhN.html
03-08-2020||India||‘Sacred thread of love’: President Kovind, PM Modi extend wishes on Raksha Bandhan||President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were among several leaders who extended their wishes on Raksha Bandhan, a festival celebrating the bond between brothers and sisters, on Monday.Most of the leader tweeted their wishes as they called for love and respect “Greetings on Raksha Bandhan! Rakhi is the sacred thread of love and trust that connects sisters with brothers in a special bond. On this day, let us reiterate our commitment to secure the honour and dignity of women,” President Kovind tweeted.Vice president Naidu also called for women’s empowerment so that they can “reach their true potential”.“I convey my greetings and good wishes to the people on the auspicious occasion of Rakshabandhan. This festival reaffirms the strong ties of love and affection that bind brothers and sisters together,” Naidu posted on Twitter.“On this auspicious occasion, let us also resolve to uphold the dignity and respect traditionally accorded to women in our society and empower women to reach their true potential. May this festival usher in greater peace, harmony and prosperity in the country,” he added.“Many wishes to all the countrymen on the holy festival of Raksha Bandhan,” PM Modi posted.Home minister Amit Shah, who has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), also conveyed his wishes on Raksha Bandhan.“Hearty greetings to all the countrymen on the sacred festival of Rakshabandhan,” Shah tweeted in Hindi.Raksha Bandhan is celebrated every year to celebrate the special bond and honour between siblings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sacred-thread-of-love-president-kovind-pm-modi-extend-wishes-on-raksha-bandhan/story-oulQYBZAXuLLI96HPcxSNJ.html
03-08-2020||India||Hospital where Yediyurappa is being treated for Covid-19 says Karnataka CM is stable||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa, who was admitted to hospital after testing positive for the coronavirus disease, is clinically stable, the doctors said.“Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa has been admitted to the hospital for observation. He is doing well, is clinically stable and will be monitored closely by our team,” the Manipal Hospital said in a health bulletin on Monday.Yediyurappa, 77, had announced on Twitter yesterday that he had tested positive for the disease.“I have tested positive for coronavirus. Whilst I am fine, I am being hospitalised as a precaution on the recommendation of doctors. I request those who have come in contact with me recently to be observant and exercise self-quarantine,” Yediyurappa said in his post.According to hospital sources, the chief minister was cheerful in the morning and spoke to some family members on phone.Yediyurappa’s staff members will be tested for coronavirus. The Karnataka chief minister had also met state chief secretary Dr Kasturirangan who had authored the National Education Policy. Yediyurappa had also felicitated the Kasturirangan at an event. Yediyurappa had attended Vara Mahalakshmi festival celebrations on Friday at his younger son BY Vijayaendra’s residence who is also a state BJP vice president. All his family members will be quarantined and tested, state health authorities said.His daughter Padmavati, meanwhile, is in the hospital suite next to that of CM monitoring treatment of her father.All the ministers who came in Yediyurappa’s contact will undergo tests for Covid-19. These include ministers for primary and secondary education Suresh kumar, deputy CM Ashwath Narayan, medical education minister Dr K sudhakar, revenue minister R Ashoka and home minister Basvraj Bommai.Yediyurappa had met governor Vajubhai Vala on Friday and now the governor is likely to undergo tests too.Karnataka’s Covid-19 tally now stands at 1,34,819 positive cases, including 74,590 active cases and 57,725 discharged patients. So far, 2,496 deaths have been reported in the state.Not just Karnataka, the rapidly spreading coronavirus disease is also affecting operations of state government as well. Tamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday. On July 25, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced he too had the virus.Earlier on Sunday, Union home minister Amit Shah also tweeted that he had tested positive for Covid-19 and had been hospitalised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hospital-where-yediyurappa-is-being-treated-for-covid-19-says-karnataka-cm-is-stable/story-eZHVv1hKrcqDaO3h62WFHN.html
03-08-2020||India||IPS officer probing Sushant Singh Rajput’s death ‘forcibly quarantined’: Bihar DGP||An Indian Police Service (IPS) officer from Bihar, in Mumbai to probe the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, was “forcibly quarantined” by civic authorities, the eastern state’s police chief has alleged.Bihar’s director general of police (DGP) Gupteshwar Pandey tweeted the charge on Sunday. Vinay Tiwari, heading a Patna Police team which is in Mumbai to investigate an ‘‘abetment to suicide’‘ case on the basis of a complaint filed by the late actor’s father in Patna, had reached the city earlier in the day.“IPS officer Vinay Tiwari reached Mumbai today from Patna on official duty to lead the police team there but he has been forcibly quarantined by BMC officials at 11 PM today,” Pandey tweeted. IPS officer Binay Tiwari reached Mumbai today from patna on official duty to lead the police team there but he has been forcibly quarantined by BMC officials at 11pm today.He was not provided accommodation in the IPSMess despite request and was staying in a guest house in Goregaw pic.twitter.com/JUPFRpqiGEWatch | Sushant death: Bihar IPS officer who reached Mumbai ‘forcibly quarantined’ Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said Tiwari has been quarantined as per the present guidelines for domestic arrivals at the Mumbai airport, according to news agency ANI.“He was not provided accommodation in the IPS mess, despite request, and was staying in a Guest House in Goregaon,” he said.Rajput, 34, was found dead in his Bandra apartment on June 14.Rajput’s father lodged a police complaint against actor Rhea Chakraborty and her family members and the department registered a first information report (FIR) under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including abetment to suicide. Rajput’s father alleged that Chakraborty and her family kept his son away from his family, handled his bank accounts and took away crores of rupees. His FIR mentioned that when she found Rajput’s bank balance was depleting, she left his house on June 8 and took cash, jewellery and his medical reports along with her, and also blocked his mobile number.Rajput, according to him, had called his sister and told her that Chakraborty had threatened him that she would show the doctors’ receipts to the media and prove he was insane.Mumbai Police are also probing the death case and have so far recorded statements of nearly 40 people, including those from Rajput’s family, his cook and people from the film industry that include filmmakers Mahesh Bhatt and Aditya Chopra, film critic Rajeev Masand, director Sanjay Leela Bhansali.Pandey had said earlier that Rajput’s death shouldn’t be turned into a Maharashtra versus Bihar battle amid reports that the police team from Patna is not being helped by the force in Mumbai.“I am saying a simple thing that one should look at the sentiments of the country’s people. People say that he was a vibrant, enthusiastic and successful young man. They feel there is some kind of mystery if a man who had money and fame hangs himself,” he had said in an interview to a Hindi television news channel on Saturday.“That mystery must be probed and truth must come out. Why should anyone have any problem with that? Bihar Police have registered an FIR and started a probe,” he added.He had also urged Chakraborty to join the investigation into the death of Rajput being conducted by Patna Police if she has nothing to hide. The four-member team had reached Mumbai on July 27 and began its probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ips-officer-probing-sushant-singh-rajput-s-death-forcibly-quarantined-by-bmc-bihar-police-chief/story-yP7KpY6BkQ2nlm58krkzHJ.html
03-08-2020||India||India-China expand border talks, to revisit patrolling protocol to avoid skirmishes||Although military commanders are negotiating disengagement of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) along the 1,597 km Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, diplomats from both countries are considering the option of putting patrolling protocols in place to avoid a repeat of the June 15 Galwan Valley flare-up.According to South Block, with the PLA building roads, laying fibre optic cables and setting up posts powered by solar panels up to the friction points along the LAC in Ladakh and the Indian army matching the effort, it is only a matter of time before the two armies face off again while patrolling their perceived border line.Also read: China pulls back troops in Galwan Valley by at least a km: Official“The first step is total disengagement, then de-escalation with minimum troops being kept by both sides as per 1993-1996 bilateral agreements and then some working mechanism where the patrolling parties of two sides do not clash ,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.While the short-term solution of disengagement and de-escalation is a work in progress, keeping in mind the friction at patrolling point 17 (Gogra) and Pangong Tso fingers, diplomats on both sides are looking for a long-term solution that will keep their soldiers apart. “The long-term solution can only be found if India and China exchange maps indicating presence of troops along the LAC and then introduce patrolling protocols. Earlier, both Indian Army and PLA would undertake patrols to their perceived LAC once a month with both sides avoiding face-offs. Today with India and China both building border infrastructure right up to perceived LAC, the patrolling intensity has not only increased but also the friction with the opposing force,” said a second senior official. Also read: India, China to hold commander-level talks today, disengagement in finger area key focusWeeks of tensions along the LAC in eastern Ladakh flared into a violent brawl in Galwan Valley on June 15 that left 20 Indian soldiers and an unspecified number of Chinese dead. The last attempt to exchange western sector maps in 2002 was unsuccessful with China pulling out at the last moment.While the national security establishment and the Indian Army don’t trust the PLA and feel that the Chinese border infrastructure allows for rapid deployment as compared to India’s, diplomats say that neither India nor China should object to upgrading border infrastructure as long as it is within their LAC limits and does not encroach on the other’s perception of where the border lies.“As long as the two sides keep away from each other’s perception of LAC, which is very well known to the ground troops, the situation can be controlled. Just as we can’t stop China from upgrading its border infrastructure, the same holds true for China too,” said another government official.While the PLA has shown some signs of thinning out troops from the depth areas in occupied Aksai Chin, the Indian Army and the PLA, for once, are not facing each other at all friction points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-plan-protocol-to-avoid-skirmishes/story-vIhdZCJb2jGmd7RlSE2OFM.html
03-08-2020||India||Home minister Amit Shah tests Covid-19 positive, hospitalised||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday tested positive for coronavirus disease and was admitted to Medanta hospital in Gurugram. Amit Shah, who is the first union cabinet minister to have tested positive for Covid-19, announced this on Twitter : “After showing initial symptoms, I underwent a test for coronavirus and the report came out positive. My health is fine but I am being admitted to the hospital on the advice of doctors”. The home minister also requested those who came in his contact in last few days to isolate themselves and get tested. Among those who have met Amit Shah in last few days and have gone into isolation are BJP leader Vinay Sahasrabuddhe and Babul Supriyo. Babul Supriyo tweeted “I had met Honble HM Amit Shah Ji day before in the evening. I am advised by doctors to confine myself, away from my family members, for the next few days with a test to be done soon”. Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, who was attending regular meetings with the home minister, few joint secretaries and Shah’s personal staff as well as security personnel deployed in his close proximity are also likely to be in isolation and undergo tests, government officials familiar with the matter said. The officials added that Amit Shah has had a full schedule for the past few days: he was present at the cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last Wednesday, in which the government approved the new National Education Policy . However, social distancing was strictly followed at the cabinet meeting at the PM’s residence, the officials said. “There is a strict protocol at PM’s residence in the last few months which includes temperature checks, analyzing a person’s status through Aarogya Setu app and proper hand sanitization,” said an official who didn’t wish to be named. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageDuring the last few days, Shah is learnt to have attended crucial meetings on security, party meetings and met several persons at his office. On Saturday, Shah addressed the Indian Council of Cultural Relations’ online conference on Bal Gangadhar Tilak, marking 100 years of the freedom fighter’s death August 1, 1920. While the conference was online, there was a physical component to it as well -- and Sahasrabuddhe , who is also the head of ICCR, met Shah during this. Shah was also supposed to attend the ground breaking ceremony of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya on August 5, but the officials said that this seems difficult now. There was no information available on how many leaders have been in touch with Shah in the last few days; the newly appointed state unit presidents of Haryana, OP Dhankar and Gujarat, CR Patil called on him on July 24. Soon after the news of Shah’s Covid-19 positive result broke, several political leaders from various parties including Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Delhi chief minister Arving Kejriwal, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel among others wished him speedy recovery on their Twitter accounts. Defence minister Rajnath Singh and BJP President J P Nadda too posted messages wishing him good health. According to people familiar with the matter in Medanta, Shah is in no discomfort. He was admitted around 4.30pm in the internal medicine department and is under the care of Dr Suhsila Kataria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-minister-amit-shah-tests-covid-19-positive-hospitalised/story-pX63GS9VN3rMdamu69iP5N.html
03-08-2020||India||Revoking Article 370 didn’t usher in any development in J&K: Farooq Abdullah||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Farooq Abdullah on Sunday said the abrogation of the erstwhile state’s special status had neither ushered in development nor put an end to terrorism as being narrated by some vested interests in New Delhi. Speaking at a webinar , Abdullah, a Lok Sabha member and president of the National Conference (NC), said the government took the decision on the abrogation of the special status without consulting anyone from J&K. “It was passed in one day in Rajya Sabha and another day in Lok Sabha,” he said and added that the narrative sold by the government is that Kashmir would now become a part of India. “We were always part of India holding the tricolour,” Abdullah said. BJP leader Priya Sethi and former MLC Surinder Ambardar countered Abdullah and said the abrogation of Article 370 provisions had become necessary to ensure all-round development. “One year is little time to assess the benefits, give us some time and you will see for yourself,” Sethi said.  “Article 370 was a continuation of the two-nation theory which gave rise to Pakistan in 1947,” Ambardar said. “What changed which forced them (to take such a decision)? This was the agenda of the BJP to abrogate it and so it projected it that development will be pouring in from the top, industrialists will come in and the whole map will change. UTs become states but states never become UTs,” Abdullah said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/revoking-article-370-didn-t-usher-in-any-development-in-j-k-farooq-abdullah/story-23rObQ2tyn3epkj80VBFlI.html
03-08-2020||India||2-day-old Covid-19 positive baby dies in Tripura, its youngest fatality||A two-day old baby who had tested positive for Covid-19 died at a hospital in Tripura’s capital Agartala, a state health department official said on Sunday. This is the youngest Covid-patient died in the state. The baby was born on Thursday at Agartala Government Medical College ( AGMC). She was diagnosed to have been born with perforated trachea and an incomplete excretory system, said the official. “ The mother of the baby was tested Covid-19 positive and that’s why swab of the new-born was tested and the report came positive. The baby died on Saturday,” he said. A 62-year-old Covid-19 positive man also died on Saturday. He had been hospitalised on July 31 after he had a heart attack. The state has so far reported 5,251 Covid-19 patients of whom 3,463 have recovered. The death toll due to coronavirus disease is now 23 and another two died by suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-day-old-covid-19-positive-baby-dies-in-tripura-its-youngest-fatality/story-KCSkfiobTuX1peZauUWdZP.html
03-08-2020||India||Uttarakhand to develop 6 city forests to increase green cover in urban spaces||The Uttarakhand forest department will develop six city forests in Kumaon region, including two in the plains and four in hilly districts, said forest officials. The forest department has also started searching for land in municipal areas, said officials. Tejaswini Patil, chief conservator forests (CCF) Kumaon region said six city forests will be developed in Kumaon region. “Two will be developed in the plains and four in hilly districts. Each forest will be created in around 10 hectares land. These city forests will be developed in civic areas” she said. Patil said the purpose of city forests is to increase the green cover in urban areas and thus help in creating a green and clean environment in such spaces. “Also, its purpose is to connect people with greenery and clean environment through the city forests. We hope it will also motivate people to plant trees to compensate for the loss of greenery due to concretization in the city areas,” she said The forest department has identified land for city forests in Haldwani (Nanital) and US Nagar. However, forest officials said it is comparatively challenging to identify 10-hectare land in hilly districts (Almora, Bageshwar, Pithoragarh and Champawat). “So the forest department has sent a proposal for only one-hectare city forests in hilly districts,” said a senior forest official. “Ten 10 hectares of land is being acquired in the municipal areas in plain districts. But it is not easy to find 10 hectares of land at one place in hilly districts. So we have sent a proposal to the Central government to make provision for city forests over one hectare of land in the hilly districts of Uttarakhand,” said Patil. She said if the Centre approves the proposal, then city forests will be developed over a hectare of land in hilly districts. Uttarakhand’s first city forest is being developed in Dehradun, she added. According to the last two surveys conducted by the Forest Survey of India over a period of four years from 2015 to 2019, Uttarakhand has not managed to report even an increase of even 1% forest cover in the state. Uttarakhand reported an increase of a mere 8.04 sq km of forests as per the India State of Forest Report 2019, released by the Forest Survey of India in December last year. The India State of Forest Report 2017, released by the Union ministry of environment and forests in February 2018, showed that only a marginal increase of 23 sq km forest cover was reported in Uttarakhand since 2015. The report of 2017 showed a meagre increase of 165 sq km in very dense forest and 636 sq km in other forest categories, while the moderate dense forest diminished with a difference of 778 sq km, leaving the total cover in state to 24,295 sq km. As per the 2019 report the districts of Haridwar, Nainital and Udham Singh Nagar reported a negative result of -2.75 sq km, -6.44 sq km and -4.21sq km decrease in forest area with respect to the assessment done by Forest Survey of India in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-to-develop-6-city-forests-to-increase-green-cover-in-urban-spaces/story-6Wm1MJ9RV78t7A81obppRO.html
03-08-2020||India||Sushant’s death embroiled in a web of theories||On the morning of Sunday, June 14, Sushant Singh Rajput, a 34-year-old actor with a seemingly promising movie career ahead of him, was found dead at his rented apartment in Mumbai’s Bandra in what the police suspected was a case of suicide. The death triggered dark conspiracy theories of how a powerful cabal of Bollywood producers had tried to sabotage his career, pushing him to kill himself, and set off a raging debate on insiders versus outsiders and the role of nepotism in the Hindi movie business.Also read: Disha Salian’s mother on Sushant Singh Rajput’s death: ‘How can there be a connection after meeting him just once?’Almost 50 days later, the police are still investigating what exactly prompted Rajput to commit suicide, which remains a mystery. After all, he seemed to have a lot going for him; his last film, 2019’s Chhichhore, was a box-office winner, earning Rs150 crore, and he had a release coming up in Dil Bechara, which eventually started streaming on July 24 on an over-the-top (OTT) movie platform.Rajput’s long-time ex-girlfriend Ankita Lokhande, 35, has demanded an in-depth investigation, saying a man with so much joie de vivre couldn’t have sunk into such a deep depression that he would have taken his own life, and offered to be a witness. His last girlfriend, Rhea Chakraborty, 28, said the actor was under severe mental stress and on medication.Rajput’s father has, meanwhile, filed a first information report (FIR) in Patna against Chakraborty, after which she moved the Supreme Court, pleading that the investigation remain with Mumbai Police. He accused her of, among other things, abetment to suicide.“I have immense faith in god and the judiciary. I believe that I will get justice. Even though a lot of horrible things are being said about me on the electronic media, I refrain from commenting on the advice of my lawyers as the matter is sub-judice. Satyameva Jayate, the truth shall prevail,” Chakraborty said in a video message on July 31.The road to stardomBorn in Patna on January 21, 1986 to Krishan Kumar Singh and Usha Singh, Rajput attended St. Karen’s High School in Patna. After his mother’s death in 2002, he was devastated, and the family moved to Delhi the same year. Rajput completed his schooling in New Delhi’s Kulachi Hansraj Model School, and wanted to pursue engineering.He cleared as many as 11 engineering entrance examinations, and completed three years out of four in the Bachelor of Engineering course at Delhi Technological University before dropping out. Having enrolled in choreographer Shiamak Davar’s dance classes, Rajput was selected in 2005 as one of the background dancers for a popular awards ceremony. The lure of theatre and dance was too powerful to resist.Also read: Sushant Singh Rajput’s call records, family of ex-manager on Bihar Police’s probe radarHe was noticed by the makers of his first television series, Kis Desh Mein Hai Meraa Dil, at a stage performance, and landed a role. He became popular enough for Ekta Kapoor to choose him for a lead role in the daily soap Pavitra Rishta in 2009. His chemistry with co-star Lokhande was apparent, and the two dated each other until breaking up in 2016.Bollywood came calling after his small screen appearances. In 2013, Rajput made a successful film debut with Kai Po Che!, which started his Bollywood journey. Shuddh Desi Romance, Detective Byomkesh Bakshy! and MS Dhoni: The Untold Story were his subsequent films. The last named movie was a box office smash, cementing Rajput’s stardom.After Chhichhore turned out to be a box-office hit, Dil Bechara, a remake of the 2014 Hollywood film The Fault In Our Stars, opened to a record-breaking 95 million views in 24 hours on Disney Hotstar on July 24. Now with the actor gone, his family has decided to convert his childhood home, which is located in Rajeev Nagar, Patna, into a memorial, said a statement released by the family. It will house his telescope, guitar, flight simulator and other personal belongings that reflect his eclectic tastes, including an abiding interest in astronomy.The investigationMumbai Police swung into action on June 14 after a domestic help alerted the department about Rajput being found hanging in his room.“He has committed suicide. Mumbai Police is investigating. The police has not found any (suicide) note yet,” Mumbai Police spokesperson and deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Pranay Ashok said then. The actor’s maternal uncle, the following day, claimed that there seemed to be a “conspiracy” behind his death, and that “he has been murdered”.Also read: Ankita Lokhande on why she didn’t go to Sushant Singh Rajput’s funeral: ‘I knew if I see him like that, I will never be able to forget’Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh tweeted on June 15, “While the post mortem report says actor @itsSSR committed suicide by hanging himself, there are media reports that he allegedly suffered from clinical depression because of professional rivalry. @MumbaiPolice will probe this angle too.”Mumbai Police sought a copy of the actor’s contract with production house Yash Raj Films (YRF), with which he had signed a three-film deal.Statements by Rajput’s father and two sisters were recorded on June 16 wherein the father reportedly revealed that his son would often feel “low” but they didn’t know he was depressed. Mukesh Chhabra, the director of Rajput’s last film Dil Bechara, recorded his statement with the police on June 17.On June 18, Chakraborty was called for questioning at the Bandra police station. She reportedly revealed that he had been suffering from depression for the past few months, and had stopped taking the medicines for the past few weeks. The two had been living together during the lockdown, she claimed, and she left his house after a fight. Rohini Iyer, a friend of Rajput’s and ex-publicist, was next questioned on June 22.The final post mortem report in the case was received on June 25, which identified the cause of the actor’s death as “asphyxia due to hanging”, stating that it was a “clear case of suicide”.YRF casting director Shanoo Sharma was questioned on June 27, Rajput’s Dil Bechara co-star Sanjana Sanghi on June 30, filmmaker Sanjay Leela Bhansali on July 6. Abhishek Trimukhe, DCP (Zone IX), Mumbai police, said Bhansali had planned to cast Rajput in four of his films, but due to non-availability of his dates, other actors had to be cast instead. He added that the police had taken into custody CCTV recordings of the building where the late actor stayed.Nepotism debate, professional rivalryIn the public domain, and in the police investigation, the focus turned towards alleged nepotism and professional rivalry in the movie world and dragged some big names into the case. After asking for a copy of Rajput’s contract with YRF, the police called in head honcho of the production house, Aditya Chopra, for questioning on July 18. It was speculated, especially after actor Kangana Ranaut said so in a TV interview, that having signed a three-film deal with YRF, Rajput lost out on some big outside projects because YRF didn’t allow him to do them and instead let actor Ranveer Singh, also a part of the production house’s talent pool, to do them instead. Hindustan Times couldn’t independently verify the claims.Director Shekhar Kapur’s film Paani, which was to be produced by YRF, was one project which didn’t take off, and speculation has been that it affected the actor’s mental health and pushed him into depression.According to several media reports, Chopra told the police that the project had to be shelved owing to creative differences between him and Kapur. He also added that no one in YRF stopped Rajput from working outside the banner, and that Goliyon Ki Raasleela Ram-Leela, one of the films that Bhansali said he offered to Rajput, already had Ranveer Singh on board before YRF’s deal with Rajput took place.Filmmaker Mahesh Bhatt was called in for questioning on July 27. His association with Chakraborty was being seen with suspicion, and it was speculated that he had asked her to leave Rajput. Bhatt’s associate Sucharita Das, in a now deleted Facebook post, had written that Bhatt had told Chakraborty to “walk away or this will take you down under along with him”. In a statement, Bhatt said he met the late actor through her, and never asked her to quit the relationship. He also reportedly said Rajput was never offered a role in his upcoming film Sadak 2.Filmmaker Karan Johar has also been under the scanner after Rajput’s fans alleged that he sabotaged the actor’s career by casting him in the movie Drive, which was stuck for over two years for a theatrical release and eventually released digitally to bad reviews, and noted that Rajput had been made fun of on his chat show, Koffee With Karan.Apoorva Mehta, CEO of Johar’s production house Dharma Productions, was next to record his statement with the police. He also submitted to the police a copy of the contract for Drive.Family complaintOn July 25, Rajput’s father filed an FIR against his girlfriend Chakraborty with Patna police. Sanjay Singh, inspector general of Patna (central zone), told ANI that the FIR was registered under various sections, including abetment to suicide. Sections of the Indian Penal Code including 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement), 380 (theft in a dwelling house), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 306 (abetment of suicide) were invoked, according to PTI.“A four-member team has been sent to Mumbai. The team will collect case diary and other important documents from Mumbai Police,” Singh added.Rajput’s father levelled serious allegations against Chakraborty and her family, including that they kept him away from his family, handled his bank accounts and took away crores of rupees. His FIR mentioned that when she found Rajput’s bank balance was depleting, she left his house on June 8 and took cash, jewellery and his medical reports along with her, and also blocked his mobile number.Rajput, according to him, had called his sister and told her that Chakraborty had threatened him that she would show the doctors’ receipts to the media and prove he was insane.On June 8, Rajput’s manager Disha Salian, who had been appointed by Chakraborty, committed suicide. He was, according to the FIR, afraid that Chakraborty would pin the responsibility for the suicide on him after she threatened to frame him in a murder case. In his complaint, the late actor’s father also sought to invoke the provisions of the Mental Health Care Act, alleging that the “machinations” of Chakraborty and her family members affected Rajput’s mental health, which drove him to suicide despite a successful career. Bihar Police started an investigation on the basis of this FIR.What took the case to a totally different direction was Rajput’s father claiming that the family had approached the Mumbai police four months before his alleged suicide. Vikas Singh, ex-additional solicitor general and the former’s lawyer, told Times Now channel, “On 25th February, the family had reported to Bandra police saying, ‘he is not in good company and please ensure nothing untoward happens to him’,” adding that the Patna police only filed the FIR after Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar stepped in. Political turnAfter Rajput’s family filed the FIR, the Bihar and Maharashtra governments are tussling over the actor’s death probe. The Bihar government has alleged that Mumbai police is not cooperating. Lalit Kishore, Bihar’s advocate general, said, “When one state’s police goes to another, they get cooperation. It’s unfortunate that Mumbai police is not helping us in the probe.”Maharashtra’s minister of state for home Satej Patil said: “Mumbai police will probe the case properly and it is going in the right direction.” He ruled out a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).Many political leaders have demanded the CBI’s intervention. On June 18, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from Jharkhand, Nishikant Dubey, claimed that Rajput was “pressured” to end his life and blamed his death on a “mafia” and “syndicate” operating in Bollywood. Actor-turned-BJP MP Rupa Ganguly, Rajput’s cousin Neeraj Singh, an MLA in Bihar, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) president Mayawati, and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, too have pressed for a CBI probe.Alleged financial irregularities pointed out in the FIR filed by Rajput’s father prompted former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis to urge the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to look into the case. On July 31, he tweeted, “There is a huge public sentiment about handing over #SushantSinghRajput case to CBI but looking at the reluctance of State Government, atleast @dir_ed ED can register an ECIR {Enforcement Case Information Report} since misappropriation and money laundering angle has come out.”The ED, after studying the FIR filed by Bihar police, registered a money laundering case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).Who is Rhea Chakaborty?A video jockey and actor, Chakraborty made her Bollywood debut with Mere Dad Ki Maruti in 2013 after hosting TV shows and starring in a Telugu film.Chakraborty and Rajput started dating around one-and-a-half years ago and had been living in together for a year. The two never made their relationship official although they often posted pictures with each other on social media with romantic captions. After Rajput’s death, many trolled Chakraborty for not posting a single condolence message or grieving her boyfriend’s demise.It was on July 14, exactly a month after the actor’s death, that she wrote a long post on social media and identified herself as “Sushant Singh Rajput’s girlfriend”. Two days later, she revealed that she was getting rape and death threats and filed a complaint with Cyber Crime department.“I was called a gold digger, I kept quiet. I was called a murderer, I kept quiet. I was slut shamed, I kept quiet. But how does my silence give you the right to tell me that you will get me RAPED and MURDERED if I don’t commit suicide? Do you realise the seriousness of what you have said....” she wrote with a screenshot of the comment.The same day, she appealed to Union home minister Amit Shah for a CBI probe into Rajput’s death case, as she wanted to “understand what pressures prompted Sushant to take this step”.Mental health in the spotlightRajput’s sudden death sparked a conversation about mental health, and the kind of difficult life film stars lead.The police are reported to have found medical prescriptions and medicines for depression in the late actor’s room when they found him hanging. According to an Indian Express report, deputy commissioner of Police Abhishek Trimukhe had said, “We have so far recorded the statement of his sister, two managers, a cook, actor Mahesh Shetty (Rajput’s close friend) and a keymaker who was called to the spot to open his bedroom’s door” on June 14. From their statements, the police learnt that the late actor was depressed.What added another angle to the case was Kangana Ranaut’s viral Instagram video where she talked about how outsiders— people in the film industry without any family connections in the business — are pressurised by the insiders.Filmmaker Shekhar Kapur, whose project with Rajput got shelved, wrote in a condolence tweet: “I knew the pain you were going through. I knew the story of the people that let you down so bad that you would weep on my shoulder. I wish I was around the last six months. I wish you had reached out to me. What happened to you was their Karma. Not yours.”In a new twist to the debate, Mumbai-based psychotherapist Susan Walker, claiming to be Rajput’s therapist, told journalist Barkha Dutt’s multi-media content platform Mojo that the late actor was suffering from severe bipolar disorder and tried to offer a clean chit to Chakraborty, setting off a controversy on whether her revelation had breached patient-therapist confidentiality.Director Abhishek Kapoor, who directed Rajput’s debut film Kai Po Che and later Kedarnath (2018), said in an interview that it was a case of “systematic dismantling of a fragile mind” by the film industry.“Sushant was a troubled man who was systematically dismantled by the industry. Sushant was fragile, he had become fragile. He was incredibly intelligent, but he was also a complicated guy. He was an engineer, he was into astrophysics and quantum physics. But because we couldn’t box him into stereotypes we called him ‘off’. He was off, just off your radar. There’s this thing that if you’re not like us then you can’t be with us. There are so many camps that if you’re not part of a camp, even if you’re in the middle of a room, you will be ignored.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-s-death-embroiled-in-a-web-of-theories/story-TEWZDqHtQRJXoN22jE5cqJ.html
03-08-2020||India||Inbound flyers can skip isolation after online declaration||International passengers arriving in India will have to upload a report showing they had tested negative for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) if they want exemption from a mandatory seven-day institutional quarantine, according to a union health ministry guideline issued on Sunday. Travellers also need to submit online a self-declaration at least 72 hours before their scheduled travel on the portal www.newdelhiairport.in, the guideline said. The test should be done using the real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method, considered to be the gold standard of testing for Covid-19, and conducted no longer than 96 hours before travel. Since the government started Vande Bharat Mission flights from May 6 to repatriate Indian citizens stranded overseas, the Centre has been allowing passengers to go home straight, bypassing the seven-day mandatory institutional quarantine. Exemption from the quarantine is meant only for people with compelling reasons including human distress, pregnancy, death in the family, serious illness and for parent(s) with children of the age of 10 years or below. Top officials involved in the planning maintained that the authorities, especially at Delhi airport, are flooded with a vast number of exemption requests -- both genuine and fraudulent — leading to massive crowds at Delhi airport that result in passengers getting stuck for about 3-4 hours in the triage area. The officials requested anonymity. Civil aviation authorities said that earlier this month a young man held up an inhaler to back his claim that he had a “serious disease” to go home. Another man cited a death in the family to skip institutional quarantine and other passengers in the queue took the lead and made similar excuses to go home, Delhi government officials said.“Passengers would ask relatives or friends to send WhatsApp messages and show them to authorities to claim death in family,” said one official. Civil aviation minister Hardeep Puri told HT that he received complaints from passengers about long, tiring queues and massive crowding at the Delhi airport, which prompted him to ask officials and airport authorities to put in place an online system. The new system will kick in from August 8. “We have deliberately given this time so that passengers are informed and well-prepared before arrival,” one of the officials added.The government will inform passengers of the status of their application through the same portal. “They should also give an undertaking on the portal that they would undergo mandatory quarantine for 14 days i.e. 7 days paid institutional quarantine at their own cost, followed by 7 days isolation at home with self-monitoring of health,” the guideline added. Travellers who seek exemption from institutional quarantine and upload their Covid-19 free certificate will also need to fill an online self-declaration form attesting to the authenticity of the certificate. “Any fraudulent claims will be liable for criminal prosecution. The test report could also be produced upon arrival at the point of entry airport in India,” the guideline says. Only asymptomatic travellers will be allowed to board after thermal screening, including those arriving through the land borders. Only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to cross the border into India. If the required documents are not furnished online for some reason, passengers will have the option of filling a hard copy in duplicate in the flight or ship that will be submitted to the health and immigration officials at the airport, seaport or land port. Passengers found to be symptomatic during screening will be isolated on the spot and moved to a hospital for further assessment, in line with government protocol. States are free to tweak the guideline according to local requirements. “States can develop their own protocol with regards to quarantine and isolation as per their assessment post arrival of passengers in the state concerned,” the guideline says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inbound-flyers-can-skip-isolation-after-online-declaration/story-706ykdEudctDjYLuN1PS3H.html
03-08-2020||India||Silver lining as Covid-19 recoveries see big spike||The number of people who have recovered from Covid-19 in India crossed the 1.1 million mark over the weekend when over 100,000 people were declared free of the virus, the highest numbers recorded yet over two days in what is being seen as a sign of the country’s disease mitigation strategy being effective in avoiding a high number of fatalities. HT’s dashboard of Covid-19 data from across the country showed that 51,845 recovered on Saturday and 40,449 recovered on Sunday, bringing the proportion of recoveries to 65.76%. As on Sunday, of the 1,803,267 infections in all, 38,159 people have succumbed to the viral disease, translating to a case fatality ratio (CFR) of 2.12%. As of Sunday night, the doubling rate of cases – the number of days it takes for infections to double – across the country is 21.2 days. Coordinated implementation of “effective containment strategy, aggressive testing and standardised clinical management protocols” resulted in a consistent trend of rising recovery rate and progressively reducing CFR, said a statement by the Union health ministry on Sunday.The trends indicate India’s response to the pandemic is “improving at various levels of care including at the societal level as well as in hospitals,” said Niti Aayog member VK Paul, who heads the national task force on Covid. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“It suggests that we have learnt to take care of our positive cases; we have learnt how soon to act and what works and what doesn’t. We are able to provide more organised and systematic treatment clinically. Those involved in Covid-19 management are learning by the day by reading and from each other,” Paul added. To be sure, India’s recovery rate is expected to eventually soar to over 90% — since current trends indicate the final fatality rate could lie between 2-3% — once the outbreak nears its end. For instance Germany, which has had over 200,000 infections but at present has around 8,300 active cases, has a recovery rate of 92%.A look at infection, recovery and fatality rates from the top 10 countries with the highest cases shows only the United States — at around 50% — has a lower rate of recovery than India.In India, the 579,183 active cases (as of August 1) account for 32.12% of the total case load. At the current rate in which new cases are reported, active cases are doubling in 27.3 days, and new hot spots emerging in three large-population states of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and West Bengal, threatens to bring this number down – thereby accelerating the speed at which the outbreak grows. The current CFR also masks the potential fatalities that could be recorded from among the over 500,000 active cases at present. According to a study in Lancet based on case progression among patients in China, it takes around 17 days for people who develop critical Covid-19 infections to succumb to the illness. Also read: Key governance issues return to focus in Delhi as Covid-19 cases dropThe 38,159 deaths seen till August 2 will thus correspond, roughly, to the 1,004,652 cases seen 17 days ago on July 16. This brings India’s lagged case fatality ratio to 3.8% -- a number consistent with what has been seen in countries that have largely been able to keep its health care systems from being overwhelmed. Italy and Spain, two European nations that were hit hard in the second peak of the global pandemic and accounted for larger populations of more vulnerable people, have a CFR of over 14% and 8%, respectively. “India’s mortality rate is low; under 3%, which means around 97-98% of those who get infected will eventually recover. The recovery rate is also linked with the case load; if the case load is higher, the recovery will take longer as it will also include higher percentage of serious cases,” said a senior epidemiologist with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), requesting not to be named as he is not authorised to speak to media. The official said the numbers also reflect the accuracy in reporting, which could vary between states. “If the number of positive cases goes up then recovery rate will automatically slow down, and that explains why states like Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, etc, have low recovery rate. Also, for states and UTs having higher recoveries, it could also indicate fewer new infections being reported on a daily basis in comparison,” he added. Another set of epidemiologists say that it could also mean in certain regions there probably are fewer severely ill cases, leading to faster recovery, which needs to be analysed. “Looks like more number of discharges have taken place in the last two to three weeks. And most of these can be asymptomatic too, so might discharge faster. The pattern needs to be studied if it’s area specific and what could be the cause,” says Dr Giridhara Babu, professor, epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health, Public Health Foundation of India. Out of the total active cases currently, 0.28% patients are on ventilator, 1.61% require intensive care unit (ICU) support, and 2.32% are on oxygen support – trends that officials said reflected the level of preparations. “What has also worked for India is that we have been prepared well in advance that has ensured our health system is not overwhelmed, and there is buffer, cushion and headroom that helps in saving lives. Faster recoveries are also because of increased testing because of which we are able to detect cases early and act accordingly,” he added. The country’s maximum case load, which is about 80% of the cases, is restricted to 50 districts out of about 740 total districts. Experts said this could also indicate that the way Covid is affecting Indians – the disease has been established to hit countries with older populations harder – may be different from the way it has in countries like Italy and Spain. “This is a good sign that people are getting better and our mortality is low. Most positive cases do not require hospitalisation, and those needing intensive care is actually a minuscule number. Most people in hospitals have moderate disease with good chances of recovery. The need is to take care of our old and vulnerable population with co-morbidities that is at high risk of developing severe illness,” said Dr Rommel Tickoo, senior consultant, department of internal medicine, Max Healthcare. The government is now shifting its focus to emerging hot spots and rural pockets, Niti Aayog’s Paul said. “Rural India needs special focus because if we have advantages like low population density and better surveillance... there are also challenges like limited access to health care facilities [in these regions]. The long distances can work to our disadvantage, which is why it is important to ensure rural areas are not severely affected. Right now we are managing fine, and watching the situation closely,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/silver-lining-as-covid-19-recoveries-see-big-spike/story-k998o75dzmlxdW11PMTx5I.html
03-08-2020||India||Congress warns leaders over Twitter war amid Rajasthan crisis||The Congress on Sunday stepped in to check a war of words between seniors who served as ministers in the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government and young leaders considered close to former party chief Rahul Gandhi, cautioning both sides against playing “Twitter-Twitter.” Both sides were told to air their views only on organisational platforms and not on social media. The party’s media department head Randeep Singh Surjewala was asked by the top leadership to rush to Delhi from a trip to Jaisalmer in Rajasthan and address a news conference to ask the warring leaders to refrain from escalating the matter, a Congress leader said on condition of anonymity. Also read: BJP using ED in Rajasthan after failing to kidnap democracy, says CongressRahul Gandhi has been upset by media reports suggesting a deep divide within the party between the seniors and young leaders and “unwarranted” criticism of the UPA government, the leader said. “Rahul Gandhi does not appreciate people making an issue out of a non-issue. He wanted an immediate end to this so-called old versus young divide debate and the Twitter war over UPA’s performance and subsequently Surjewala rushed to Delhi,” the leader added. Surjewala, addressing a news conference at the party headquarters in Delhi, said, “I will advise friends who are playing Twitter-Twitter to stop making comments on social media. We have internal democracy and you should present your views at the appropriate party platforms.” The advisory to stop open mudslinging in the social media came a day after four former ministers – Anand Sharma, Manish Tewari, Shashi Tharoor and Milind Deora -- came out to defend the ten-year tenure of Manmohan Singh as PM and the UPA government following critical remarks against the former ruling coalition by young Congress leader Rajeev Satav, considered close to Rahul Gandhi. At Sonia Gandhi’s meeting with party’s Rajya Sabha members on Thursday, Satav suggested introspection over the UPA II tenure that, he said, was responsible for the party dropping to an all-time low of 44 seats in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. Surjewala conveyed the leadership’s message in no uncertain terms to both the sides — that no one can question former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and there were no differences between him and Rahul Gandhi who “owns up {to} and stands by each and every decision” of UPA I and II. On Sunday, except former Madhya Pradesh Digvijaya Singh and Lok Sabha MP Manickam Tagore, who later deleted his tweets, no other leader commented on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-warns-leaders-over-twitter-war-amid-rajasthan-crisis/story-l925RIfCsetKcJMbcYMwdM.html
03-08-2020||India||Woman, 15-year-old daughter raped in MP||A woman in her thirties and her 15-year-old daughter were abducted and raped by six people in a village in Burhanpur district on the Madhya Pradesh-Maharashtra border on Friday night, police said on Sunday. The crime came to light on Saturday, when the husband of the woman, a labourer, informed officials at the Shahpur police station after the victims returned home, officials said. “The six accused barged into the dwelling of the victims around midnight on Friday. They held the labourer captive and stole about ₹2,500 in cash and a mobile phone. When they started taking the labourer’s wife and minor daughter, the labourer cried for help and a neighbour came to help them but the miscreants tied them both with a rope and beat them up. The accused took the woman and her daughter to a nearby agricultural field at knife-point and raped them,” said M Tarnekar, additional superintendent of police (ASP), Burhanpur. Both the woman and her daughter were taken to a hospital, officials said. Police officials suspect that the accused might have crossed the border. Two teams of police personnel have been sent to the neighbouring districts of Jalgaon and Bhaswal in Maharashtra to track the criminals, after Khargone range deputy inspector general (DIG) of police, Tilak Singh, ordered a special team to identify and nab the accused.“The family belongs to Chhattisgarh but they moved to Burhanpur, a year ago to work as labourers at a stone crushing plant in the village where the crime was committed under Shahpur police station,” said Tarnekar. An FIR under sections 347 (wrongful confinement), 363 (kidnapping) and 376D (gang-rape) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act has been filed against the unidentified accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-15-year-old-daughter-raped-in-mp/story-8dhbjGWSuS8wFNk0qE0wvK.html
03-08-2020||India||Amid Rajasthan crisis, Cong warns leaders over Twitter war||New Delhi: The Congress on Sunday stepped in to check a war of words between seniors who served as ministers in the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government and young leaders considered close to former party chief Rahul Gandhi, cautioning both sides against playing “Twitter-Twitter.” Both sides were told to air their views only on organisational platforms and not on social media. The party’s media department head Randeep Singh Surjewala was asked by the top leadership to rush to Delhi from a trip to Jaisalmer in Rajasthan and address a news conference to ask the warring leaders to refrain from escalating the matter, a Congress leader said on condition of anonymity. Rahul Gandhi has been upset by media reports suggesting a deep divide within the party between the seniors and young leaders and “unwarranted” criticism of the UPA government, the leader said. “Rahul Gandhi does not appreciate people making an issue out of a non-issue. He wanted an immediate end to this so-called old versus young divide debate and the Twitter war over UPA’s performance and subsequently Surjewala rushed to Delhi,” the leader added. Surjewala and party colleague Ajay Maken had been camping in Rajasthan for the past three weeks to deal with a crisis faced by the Ashok Gehlot government following a rebellion by former deputy chief minister and state Congress president Sachin Pilot and 18 other legislators. “I will advise friends who are playing Twitter-Twitter to stop making comments on social media. We have internal democracy and you should present your views at the appropriate party platforms,” Surjewala said, addressing a news conference at the party headquarters in Delhi. The advisory to stop open mud-slinging in the social media came a day after four former ministers – Anand Sharma, Manish Tewari, Shashi Tharoor and Milind Deora -- came out to defend the ten-year tenure of Manmohan Singh as PM and the UPA government following critical remarks against the former ruling coalition by young Congress leader Rajeev Satav, considered close to Rahul Gandhi. At Sonia Gandhi’s meeting with party’s Rajya Sabha members on Thursday, Satav suggested introspection over the UPA II tenure that, he said, was responsible for the party dropping to an all-time low of 44 seats in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. Satav was responding to senior leader Kapil Sibal’s call for introspection within the party for not being able to corner Prime Minister Narendra Modi, his government and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) despite their “failures to tackle Covid-19 pandemic and counter Chinese transgressions and the setback on the economic front.” Surjewala conveyed the leadership’s message in no uncertain terms to both the sides - that no one can question former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and there were no differences between him and Rahul Gandhi who “owns up {to} and stands by each and every decision” of UPA I and II. Apart from communicating that Singh, Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi were on the same page as far as the UPA’s decisions, policies and programmes are concerned, Surjewala also sought to assuage the feelings of the seniors by recognising their contribution to the party. “Senior leaders have much more responsibility. They have done excellent work in the government and the party organisation. In the time of economic crisis, Covid-19 pandemic and Chinese intrusions, they should stand together with Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Manmohan Singh and show the mirror to the government. It is also their responsibility to guide the young leaders, promote and also make way for them,” Surjewala said. On Sunday, except former Madhya Pradesh Digvijaya Singh and Lok Sabha MP Manickam Tagore, who later deleted his tweets, no other leader commented on social media about the ongoing tussle in the party. “I agree. He (Rahul Gandhi) is different and wants to do politics differently. We should allow him to do so but then we also would like him to be more active in Parliament and more accessible to people. As advised by {Nationalist Congress Party chief} Sharad Pawar he should go around India.‘Yatras are important to connect,” Singh said in response to a tweet by a Congress member. At the press conference, Surjewala listed the achievements of the UPA government in its 10-year rule and referred to the rural job guarantee scheme, the Right to Information Act, the Food Security Act and the Right to Education Act. “The UPA government did remarkable work but couldn’t take on the conspiracy hatched against it,” he said and criticised the people behind the anti-corruption campaign led by social activist Anna Hazare that damaged the image of the coalition. Without taking names of Puducherry lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, former Comptroller and Auditor General Vinod Rai and Yoga guru Ramdev, he alleged that they worked under the guidance of the BJP and Modi with Hazare, who was the face of the campaign and has since been “dumped in a village” in Maharashtra. Meanwhile, a day after Gehlot said he would embrace rebel Congress legislators if they apologised to the party high command, the Congress on Sunday asked Pilot to spell out his position unequivocally and hold a conversation. “Sachin Pilot must come and hold a conversation first. Pilot must come out and state his position clearly and unequivocally first and only then can any talk of his return happen,” Surjewala said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-rajasthan-crisis-cong-warns-leaders-over-twitter-war/story-tRujMxZgEtSC14SfKiszJL.html
03-08-2020||India||1st shipment of cargo leaves Chabahar port for Thailand||New Delhi A ship carrying Iranian goods bound for Thailand left Chabahar port last week, marking the first time the strategic port has been used to ship a consignment to a Southeast Asian country. MV Libra sailed from Shahid Behesthi terminal of Chabahar port, which is operated by an Indian state-run company, with 123 containers on July 29. This included the first ever shipment from Chabahar to Bangkok, people familiar with developments said. The merchant vessel sailed to Jawaharlal Nehru Port in Mumbai and Mumdra port, from where the consignment will be transhipped to Thailand, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. They said the shipment is significant in view of efforts by India and Iran to enhance the economic viability of Chabahar port. The director general of Iran’s Sistan and Baluchestan Ports and Maritime Organisation, Behrouz Aghaei, was quoted by the Iranian media as saying that this was the first time aquatic products were shipped from Chabahar to Thailand. Afghanistan recently sent a consignment of different products, including dried fruits, to India and China through Shahid Beheshti terminal as well, Aghaei said. The vessel carrying the Afghan goods was the fourth ship that left Chabahar for destinations such as India, China and Thailand during July. India, Afghanistan and Iran signed an agreement in 2016 to jointly develop Chabahar as a trade and transit hub, including for markets in the landlocked Central Asian states to the north. India has used Chabahar since 2017 to transport essential goods and humanitarian supplies, including wheat, to Afghanistan. About 60,000 tonnes of wheat has been shipped from India to Afghanistan through Chabahar since March. The port has also been used by Afghanistan since last year to export goods to India. Hossein Shahdadi, deputy director general of Sistan-Baluchestan province’s ports and maritime department, told IRNA news agency the main goal of the Chabahar development plan is to boost the volume of transit and exports from Iran. A total of 627,000 tonnes of goods were unloaded at the port since March 20, and Shahdadi described the growth in the port’s handling of goods over the past two years as “remarkable”. Chabahar is also the “safest and the most economically efficient route” for export and import of commodities from India, Afghanistan and the Central Asian countries, he said. Iranian officials are also eyeing the possibility of making Chabahar, which was granted a special waiver from US sanctions, the country’s third trade hub after Bandar Abbas and Imam Khomeini ports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1st-shipment-of-cargo-leaves-chabahar-port-for-thailand/story-11AYiJMrD6okQnIALWqMAL.html
03-08-2020||India||Low pressure area to bring heavy rain next week: IMD||India’s monsoon rains, exactly at 100% of the so-called long period average of LPA on Saturday, the halfway mark of the four month season, but with a 9.5% deficit in July, the most critical month of the four, will likely increase this week in the core monsoon zone, The India Meteorological Department said on Sunday. The northwest part of the country, though, including Delhi, are unlikely to benefit from this. The remnant of a low-pressure system from the east is likely to emerge and under its influence, a low-pressure area is likely to form over north Bay of Bengal around August 4, IMD said. This is likely to be the first significant low-pressure area formation this monsoon which can bring monsoon rains in central and peninsular India according to IMD’s Sunday bulletin. Also read | Heavy rainfall expected tomorrow in several districts of Kerala: IMD“Since June 21 no low-pressure area had formed over Bay of Bengal. Low pressure areas are the main rain bearing systems during monsoon which bring rain to the core monsoon zone. A cyclonic storm is forming over the west Pacific, remnants of which are likely to enter Bay of Bengal and form a low-pressure area,” said DS Pai, senior scientist at IMD Pune.The absence of a low-pressure area has hit parts of the country hard. Since June 1, northwest India has a rain deficiency of 18% and central India has a deficiency of 5%. This falls well in the plus or minus 20% of normal range. It has also been a dry July, the month which typically sees around a third of monsoon rainfall, and which, along with June, is the most critical month for agriculture in India.  In July central India or the core monsoon zone recorded a deficiency of 22.3%. In northwest India, Delhi has a 27% deficiency; Rajasthan has a 24% deficiency; Ladakh, Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh have recorded 62%, 49% and 28% deficiency respectively.These areas are unlikely to see much rain this week, but the southern part of the country and central India will. “Under the above favourable scenario, monsoon will enter to active phase over the central and peninsular India from August 4 onwards for subsequent 3-4 days. Widespread and very heavy rain is also likely over Konkan and Goa during August 3 to 5. Mumbai and Madhya Maharashtra including the ghat areas are also likely to be affected by very heavy rains. Heavy to very heavy rain is likely over many places in Coastal Karnataka and Kerala,” IMD said. Also read | IMD plans to use artificial intelligence in weather forecastingThe July deficiency is a rare occurrence. “In the absence of any low-pressure area forming over Bay of Bengal, for the first time in five years July recorded a 9.5% deficiency. But now a low-pressure area is forming over north Bay of Bengal which can travel inland over central India and bring a lot of rain to Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Chhattisgarh. Due to strengthening of south westerly winds, the west coast is also likely to get very heavy rain. We are monitoring Mumbai for very heavy rains between August 3 and 5,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre. Jenamani’s research work shows the number of depressions forming over Bay of Bengal during monsoon months particularly July are on a decline.For the season, as of Saturday, monsoon rains showed a 12% excess over east and northeast India; 18% deficiency over northwest India; 5% deficiency over central India; and 13% excess over peninsular India.Presently, cool El Nino Southern Oscillation (ENSO)-neutral conditions are prevailing over the equatorial Pacific Ocean. Sea surface temperatures over the region are likely to cool further. There is enhanced probability for development of weak La Niña conditions during August-September-October season, IMD has forecast.“Both cool ENSO neutral conditions and weak La Nina conditions in September are favourable for rains which is why we are expecting a normal monsoon this year—around 102% of the long period average,” added Pai. La Niña is characterized by unusually cold ocean temperatures in the Equatorial Pacific and is associated with normal or above normal rains over India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/low-pressure-area-to-bring-heavy-rain-next-week-imd/story-hjouarRFWwzoLkkH3yX11H.html
03-08-2020||India||NIA arrests suspected PFI member in Kerala gold smuggling case||Unearthing a Popular Front of India (PFI) link to the Kerala gold smuggling scandal, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested a member of the controversial organization for assisting the suspected kingpin of the racket, the agency said on Sunday. Apart from the PFI member identified as Muhammad Ali, five more suspects have also been arrested from Kerala for conspiring with the gold smugglers; raids have been conducted at six places in Kerala in the past three days, the NIA said. Ernakulam resident Ali, arrested on Saturday, is a PFI member and took part in the smuggling racket besides aiding and assisting a person named Jalal A M in collecting the smuggled gold from suspected kingpin Ramees K T in Thiruvananthapuram and distributing the contraband among other conspirators, deputy inspector general (DIG) Sonia Narang, who is also the NIA spokesperson, said. When contacted, PFI’s Kerala state president C P Mohammad Bashir denied that Ali is a PFI member. “He is not associated with us. PFI’s name is being dragged {into the case},” Bashir said. Ali had been arrested by Kerala police in connection with an attack on July 4, 2010 on professor T K Joseph of Newman College, Thodupuzha; he was acquitted n May 2015 for want of evidence. The NIA has been investigating the case since 2011 and after his arrest now in the gold smuggling case, officials who didn’t wish to be named said they will again probe Ali’s role in the attack. Joseph was attacked for preparing a question paper that carried allegedly blasphemous content against the Prophet. His palm was chopped off during the attack, but was surgically restored. Thirteen people were convicted and 17 let off by the NIA court in Ernakulam in 2015 in connection with the attack.NIA is investigating a larger terror conspiracy in the smuggling of gold in various districts of Kerala. It is suspected that a wider network of terror financing and hawala operations is linked to the smuggling racket. Apart from Ali, those arrested in last three days include Jalal A M and Said Alvi E, residents of Ernakulam and Malappuram respectively. They were arrested on charges of conspiring with Ramees KT, who had been arrested earlier, and for smuggling gold through diplomatic baggage addressed to the United Arab Emirates consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. Two more men, namely Mohammed Shafi and Abdu PT, both residents of Malappuram district, were arrested for allegedly playing similar roles. On Saturday, NIA arrested Muhammad Ali Ebrahim along with Muhammad Ali, both residents of Muvattupuzha, Ernakulam. The four arrested earlier included Swapna Suresh, a former information technology consultant with the Kerala government, and P.Sarith Kumar, who had gone to the Thiruvananthapuram International Airport on July 3 to pick up a consignment addressed to the UAE consulate. At least 30 kilograms of 24-carat gold — the best quality — estimated to be worth at least Rs 15 crore, were found hidden inside pipes contained in a carton.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s powerful secretary M Sivasankar, a senior Indian Administrative Service officer, has been suspended over his alleged links with Suresh. Opposition parties have sought the resignation of the CM, saying he was aware of his secretary’s role in the smuggling racket. In Delhi, minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan observed a one-day fast in his residence on Sunday. “It is sad the CM’s office has turned a hub for anti-national activities. He can’t get away by sacrificing some officials,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrests-suspected-pfi-member-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-case/story-FZaKk3tARy7eDZlQyHIsXN.html
03-08-2020||India||Mahatma Gandhi’s image may appear on British coins||London: Chancellor of the exchequer Rishi Sunak’s office confirmed on Sunday that Mahatma Gandhi’s image on a coin is being considered as part of efforts to celebrate achievements of non-white individuals such as Indian-origin British spy Noor Inayat Khan and Jamaican British nurse Mary Seacole.Sunak has written to the Royal Mint Advisory Committee (RMAC) that recommends themes and designs of coins, supporting a campaign called “We Too Built Britain,” which seeks representation of non-white icons on British currency.The proposal to put Gandhi’s image on a British coin was made by former chancellor Sajid Javid in October 2019. If the proposal now becomes reality, it would make the Indian independence hero the first non-White person to feature on a British coin.In a letter to Zehra Zahidi, who has led the campaign, Sunak said: “Black, Asian and other ethnic minority communities have made a profound contribution to the shared history of the United Kingdom”.“For generations, ethnic minority groups have fought and died for this country we have built together; taught our children, nursed the sick, cared for the elderly; and through their enterprising spirit have started some of our most exciting and dynamic businesses, creating jobs and driving growth”.“I am writing today to the Chair of the Royal Mint Advisory Committee (RMAC), Lord Waldegrave…asking the RMAC Sub-Committee on Themes to consider recognising this very great contribution on our nation’s coinage,” he wrote.The chancellor’s office confirmed that the RMAC is currently considering a coin to commemorate Gandhi, adding that Sunak is keen that British coins commemorate the work of the previous generations who have served the UK and nations that form the Commonwealth.Campaigners previously sought Noor Inayat Khan’s image on a new £50 note, but the Bank of England announced that the new series to enter circulation in 2021 will have the image of computer pioneer and code-breaker Alan Turing.-||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mahatma-gandhi-s-image-may-appear-on-british-coins/story-XQ5U9QRB3hvmXmwbnpti9J.html
03-08-2020||India||Congress slams NEP for lacking ‘strategy’||The Congress on Sunday questioned the new National Education Policy (NEP), saying it was high on “catchwords” and “verbosity” but lacked a coherent road-map and strategy for implementation. The party also said the new policy had circumvented parliamentary oversight, noting that it had been unveiled in the midst of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Congress leaders MM Pallam Raju, Rajeev Gowda and Randeep Singh Surjewala told reporters through video conferencing that the NEP sought to create a digital divide between the poor and the rich as it promotes privatisation of public education. This will put education out of the reach of the middle class and the disadvantaged, they said. Also read: NEP can make India a knowledge superpower | OpinionThe Union cabinet on Wednesday approved the new NEP, replacing the 34-year-old National Policy on Education framed in 1986. The policy aims to reduce regulatory hurdles, promote autonomy in the higher education sector and the use of local languages as the medium of instruction in schools. NEP misses the fundamental goal of human development and expansion of knowledge, and there has been no discussion with the academia; only the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS), the ideological mentor of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), has been consulted, according to the Congress . The Congress leaders also questioned the government’s intent in raising spending on education to 6% of gross domestic product (GDP), saying the figure had fallen from 4.14% in 2014 to 3.2% currently and is likely to fall further because of cuts in outlays on account of a resource crunch caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. “The new education policy, which is aimed to pave the way for transformational reforms in school and higher education, is high on catchwords, gloss, appearance and verbosity yet lacks a coherent implementational roadmap and strategy, clearly defined milestones and the critical finances necessary to execute this grand vision,” they said in a joint statement. Raju, a former human resource development minister, said over-centralisation of the education sector would pose severe challenges. “While the intent seems to be there, there are serious shortcomings in the policy,” he said. Gowda, a former Indian Institute of Management (IIM) faculty member, asked where the money to fund the ambitious plans would come from. “Or is it going to come out of people’s pockets,” he asked. Surjewala said the new policy will remain on paper in the absence of the required finances and asked how the government proposed to fill 1.2 million vacancies of school teachers. Citing official records, he said only 10% of government schools in the country have access to computers and only 4% have network connectivity. “More than 70% children of marginalised sections may be completely excluded as seen during access to online classes in the Covid-19 period. This will also make the rural versus urban divide even stronger on account of absent or diminished internet connectivity and access to computers in rural areas,” he said. Surjewala also claimed that there was no mention of scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and other backward classes, comprising over 50% of the country’s population, in the entire policy document. NEP’s objective of “critical thinking, creative independence and spirit of enquiry remains empty rhetoric as the BJP regime has systematically attacked universities, obliterated institutional autonomy and stifled freedom of expression” among teachers and students alike, he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-slams-nep-for-lacking-strategy/story-NVcjf7J1YZ07HFNhoxA7mO.html
03-08-2020||India||Finger Area in focus as India, China hold talks||Top Indian and Chinese military commanders on Sunday met in eastern Ladakh to discuss the next stage of disengagement along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC), with negotiations entering a critical phase due to serious differences between the two armies in the Finger Area near Pangong Tso and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army’s reluctance to vacate positions held by it in what New Delhi claims to be Indian territory, people familiar with the talks said on the condition of anonymity. The Finger Area — a set of eight cliffs jutting out of the Sirijap range overlooking the Pangong Lake — has emerged as the hardest part of the disengagement process with little hope of immediate resolution, said one of the officials cited above. Also read: India, China set to hold fifth round of commander-level talks today on LAC disengagementThe talks — the fifth round of negotiations between corps commander-ranked officers — began at around 11.30am at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC and were in progress when this report was filed. The latest round of military negotiations came three days after Chinese ambassador Sun Weidong said his country’s traditional boundary line on the northern bank of the Pangong Lake was in accordance with the LAC and there was no case of Beijing expanding its territorial claim. The ambassador’s contention was a clear indication of the Chinese hard line on its claims in the Finger Area, said a second official. Before the PLA grabbed positions on Finger Four overlooking Indian deployments, the Indian Army would patrol right up to Finger Eight that New Delhi considers within Indian territory. The new positions held by the PLA have curtailed the scope of Indian patrols. Fingers Four and Eight are eight kilometres apart. “It is becoming increasingly evident that breaking the Finger Area deadlock may require diplomatic intervention,” said the second official. The Indian claim line in this sector extends to Finger Eight, while the Chinese claim is up to Finger Four where the PLA has set up permanent bunkers, pillboxes, observation posts and tented camps over the last three months. “The new constructions by the PLA in the Finger Area and its deployments there show there is an element of permanence in their claims to the area. That coupled with the Chinese ambassador’s statement is an indication that the PLA is inclined to hold its positions on the north bank of Pangong Tso,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General (retd) DS Hooda. Disengagement has progressed somewhat smoothly at friction points in Galwan Valley and Hot Springs but its pace remains sluggish in the Gogra area, said a third official. De-escalation of the border conflict with China can only begin complete disengagement between the two armies along the LAC. The ground situation remains unchanged in the Ladakh sector where both armies have deployed almost 100,000 soldiers and weaponry in their forward and depth areas and are prepared for a long haul through the winter months. Last month, defence minister Rajnath Singh clearly indicated that resolving the tensions along the LAC between the two nuclear powers was a challenging process. During a visit to Ladakh on July 17, he said progress in negotiations should help resolve the border dispute but added that he “couldn’t guarantee to what extent the situation will be resolved.” In July-end, Northern Army commander Lieutenant General YK Joshi said disengagement between forward deployed Indian and Chinese soldiers from friction areas along the LAC was a complex and intricate process that required diligent execution. Last week, India rejected China’s contention that disengagement has been completed at most locations along their disputed border, with New Delhi calling on Beijing to work sincerely for complete de-escalation and full restoration of peace along the LAC. External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava acknowledged there has been some progress towards disengagement and de-escalation along the LAC, though the process is far from complete. The sizeable Chinese troop presence at friction points, particularly Pangong Lake and Depsang, remains a concern, with the Chinese side yet to deliver on understandings regarding disengagement reached during the July 5 phone conversation of the special representatives on the border issue and meetings of corps commanders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/finger-area-in-focus-as-india-china-hold-talks/story-78KepYpIuC0UGkfmVsPdRN.html
03-08-2020||India||Rajya Sabha fails to get hold of RK Puram plot from encroachers||Rajya Sabha authorities have been unable to take full possession of a plot of land in the heart of New Delhi for the last 17 years due to encroachments, underlining how painstakingly difficult it can be even for public offices to get hold of government land. The 8,700 square metre plot in RK Puram is worth more than ₹200 crore, and was allotted to the Rajya Sabha in 2003 to construct a guest hostel for the Upper House’s MPs and accommodation for its officers. According to officials, the land had been under encroachment by some NGOs and slum residents, and the issue remains unresolved despite repeated efforts and offers of compensation. Some officials pointed out that between 2005 and 2012, Rajya Sabha authorities didn’t take any steps to clear the coveted land of the unauthorised occupants, resulting in mounting troubles for the current regime. On July 30, House chairman Venkaiah Naidu held a high-level meeting to review the status of the issue with House officials, Union ministry of housing and urban affairs, Delhi government and legal counsels. “Naidu asked officials to take appropriate and quick action to get the land cleared of encroachments,” an official said. Out of the total plot, around 4,384sqm remains occupied by different organisations, including NGOs, and after years of neglect, unauthorised slum clusters have occupied another 1194 sq m. House officials said the plot is earmarked to be used for officers’ accommodation and also to set up the Rajya Sabha TV office, which is now housed at a plush but expensive property in Talkatora Stadium at an annual rent of ₹15 crore — a hefty amount for a channel with hardly any revenue source. “Naidu also noted that there have been inordinate delays and urged that necessary steps be taken to resolve all outstanding issues including pending cases in the high court, where the issue has been pending for a long time,” said an official. Another official involved in the issue said, “Several meetings have been taken at various levels and the government agencies are trying their best, but nothing seems to be moving. There are three NGOs that have not moved out so far, apart from a large slum cluster and a place of worship, which has been built without sanction.” The plot has become more important as the Parliament is set to merge the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha TV channels into one, which will necessitate more space at a lower cost of operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-fails-to-get-hold-of-rk-puram-plot-from-encroachers/story-y7IrVtmMoHK9b7qamiRIfK.html
03-08-2020||India||Railways to create over 1.1mn man-days work for migrants in 6 states||Indian Railways plans to speed up infrastructure projects and generate around 1.16 million person-days of employment this financial year for migrant workers who have returned home to six states since the lockdown for the coronavirus disease was enforced on March 25.Work on railway infrastructure projects is returning to the previous year’s level, railway board chairman VK Yadav told Hindustan Times. The plan to accelerate the construction of infrastructure is targeted at Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe national transporter plans to utilise the entire capital expenditure budget it has been allocated this year, according to Yadav, who said infrastructure building had already started picking up. Indian Railways has a capex budget of Rs 1.61 lakh crore for financial year 2020-21.The railroad network has employed migrant workers in states where the maximum number of such workers have returned, and already generated more than 380,000 person-days of employment in the past four weeks, he said.“That is helping us to expedite our infra projects. Our infrastructure work has really started picking up and we have almost reached previous year’s level,” Yadav said.According to railway ministry data, Uttar Pradesh has generated the maximum employment of 140,000 person-days followed by Bihar and Madhya Pradesh.The national carrier has raised its earlier target of generating 800,000 person-days of employment for migrant workers in infrastructure projects worth Rs 1,800 crore over 125 days, until October 31, under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan.The Centre has identified 116 districts with a large concentration of returnee migrant workers in Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh for the ambitious employment-cum-rural public works programme launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 20. The PM said Rs 50,000 crore would be spent on building durable rural infrastructure under the initiative.“There are several projects identified across these states where the labourers have been deployed. We require unskilled labourers too for a lot of construction work. We want to expedite projects in these states. There is a nodal officer in each state supervising this and we monitor and prepare a weekly report,” a ministry official said, requesting anonymity. The ministry of railways is also considering generating employment under the government’s flagship rural job guarantee scheme for minor construction works. Indian Railways is also in talks with states to get back labourers for construction work on its biggest infrastructure projects—the dedicated freight corridors, HT reported on July 5. The project implementation agency, the Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Limited (DFCCIL), which had been left with about 50% of its workforce after the lockdown for Covid-19 was enforced on March 25, has begun the process of getting back nearly 20,000 labourers. DFCCIL has sought help from state governments including those of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand to arrange workers for the Rs 81,000 crore project, scheduled to be completed by 2021. DFCCIIL has begun booking special trains in bulk and deploying buses to get the workers back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rlys-to-create-over-1-1mn-man-days-work-for-migrants-in-6-states/story-Psp4ju7wGI52CNKIatkRBI.html
03-08-2020||India||BCG vaccine can control spread: Study||Countries where people have been mandatorily immunised with the Bacillus Calmette–Guerin (BCG) vaccine to prevent childhood tuberculosis reported fewer Covid-19 infections as well as deaths in the first month of their outbreak, according to a new, peer-reviewed study that offers fresh insight into why some countries such as India may be doing better than some major countries in tackling the coronavirus. The role of the BCG vaccine has been linked to milder Covid-19 infections previously, but the study reviewing infection and fatality numbers from over 130 countries shows for the first time that regions with no BCG immunisation policy since 2000 recorded an exponential increase in deaths due to Covid-19.The analysis “revealed a significant effect of mandated BCG policies on the growth rate of both cases and deaths after controlling for median age, gross domestic product per capita, population density, population size, net migration rate, and various cultural dimensions (e.g., individualism). Our analysis suggests that mandated BCG vaccination can be effective in the fight against Covid-19,” said the researchers from University of Michigan in the study published on July 31 in the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) journal.By applying a statistical model based on their findings, the researchers further estimated that only 468 people would likely have died from Covid-19 in the US as of March 29, 2020 – which is 19% of the actual figure of 2,467 deaths by that date – if the US had mandatory BCG vaccinations several decades ago.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe BCG vaccine has been given to children since 1949 and in 2019, at least 97% of the 26 million babies born that year received it. The vaccine protects against disseminated TB and meningitis in childhood, but doesn’t offer protection from adult pulmonary TB, which has led to several countries discontinuing its use.The researchers note that the benefits were seen in countries that had the policy in place till about the year 2000. “Notably, the growth curves were as steep in countries that mandated BCG policies only during the 20th century as in those that never mandated the vaccine... That is to say, the spread of the virus may be slowed only when there is “herd immunity” that prevents the virus from spreading easily across the population,” they added.The study took three specific approaches to rule out external bias, the researchers added. “First, we focused on the rate of growth of both cases and deaths, which should be uninfluenced by reporting biases as long as these biases are stable during the period of study. To meet this requirement, we focused on a short period (either the first 30 days or 15 days). Second, we used the best available estimate of country-wise reporting biases and used this as a weight in our analysis. Third, we controlled for testing availability,” they said.But, the findings also showed there was substantial variation in Covid-19 growth rates even among BCG-mandated countries, suggesting that additional societal variables are likely have an effect on mandatory BCG vaccination’s effect on the spread of the coronavirus. Thus, “BCG is by no means a magic bullet that assures safety against Covid-19,” the authors added. On July 18, the Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute for Research in Tuberculosis (ICMR-NIRT) announced it has initiated a multi-centric study to see if the BCG vaccine can reduce the severity of Covid-19 among people aged 60 and above residing in hot spots for the coronavirus outbreak. According to the statement, the study will involve around 1,000 healthy volunteers above 60 years of age in six states that have reported a high Covid-19 disease burden so far. “A lot is being talked about the protective effect of BCG vaccine in terms of Covid-19. This study was in the pipeline for some time and now we have begun the process. It is being done to generate India-specific evidence,” said an ICMR official, who did not wish to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bcg-vaccine-can-control-spread-study/story-w73NroXd1r7vtt44duX6LO.html
03-08-2020||India||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa tests positive for Covid-19||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa tweeted late on Sunday evening that he had tested positive for Covid-19. The chief minister said that though he was fine, he was being hospitalised as a precaution on the advice of doctors. He also asked all those who had come in contact with him to go for self-quarantine. Taking to Twitter Yediyurappa (77) said, “I have tested positive for coronavirus. Whilst I am fine, I am being hospitalised as a precaution on the recommendation of doctors. I request those who have come in contact with me recently to be observant and exercise self quarantine.” Karnataka has been witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases over the last few weeks with the sudden spurt in patients led by Bengaluru Urban district, which recorded 2,105 fresh coronavirus cases on Sunday and 21 deaths. Capital city Bengaluru accounts for over 50 per cent of the total number of cases in the state. The city has so far reported 59,501 cases and 1,077 deaths due to coronavirus. I have tested positive for coronavirus. Whilst I am fine, I am being hospitalised as a precaution on the recommendation of doctors. I request those who have come in contact with me recently to be observant and exercise self quarantine.In the last 24 hours, Karnataka has added 5,532 fresh Covid-19 cases while 84 people have succumbed to the viral infection, pushing coronavirus count in the state to 1.34 lakh on Sunday, the state health department data showed.On Sunday, 4,077 people were discharged after having recovered, taking the total recoveries to 57,725. There are at least 74,590 active cases including 638 critical patients infected with the virus in the ICU, the department said in a statement.Earlier on Sunday, Union home minister Amit Shah, too, tested Covid-19 positive. He has been admitted to the Medanta Hospital in Haryana’s Gururgram and is believed to be stable.Shah was present in the last cabinet meeting held on Wednesday. Social distancing was strictly followed along with wearing of masks, officials said. The officials also indicated that there is a strict protocol in place at the Prime Minister’s residence for the last few months.Last week Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan too had tested positive for the disease. He has been in hospital since then and tweeted today to say that he was fine.In Uttar Pradesh, Kamal Rani Varun, the only woman cabinet minister in the state, died of Covid-19 at a hospital in Lucknow on Sunday morning. She was 62.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-tests-positive-for-coronavirus/story-jQaWDtueb8zXckVqxgXq8H.html
03-08-2020||India||Tracing the role of Yogi Adityanath and Gorakhnath Math in Ram temple movement||When chief minister Yogi Adityanath visits Ayodhya to participate in the ‘bhumi pujan’ on August 5, the event will also mark the culmination of a long struggle launched by mahants (head priests) of the Gorakhnath Math (monastery) in Gorakhpur for construction of the Ram temple. Located 137 kilometres east of Ayodhya, the Gorakhnath Math has been at the centre of the Ram temple movement since British rule. It played a pivotal role in the Ayodhya movement under three mahants —-Digvijay Nath, Avaidyanath and Yogi Adityanath. Digvijay Nath, who became mahant in 1935 not only made the math a centre of right-wing political activities, but also became a leading light of the temple movement. After joining the Hindu Mahasabha in 1937, he started mobilising the Hindu community for the Ram temple in Ayodhya. He led a team of volunteers to Ayodhya in 1949, held a meeting with then Raja of Balrampur, Pateshwari Prasad Singh and Swami Karpatri Maharaj, a prominent seer. Also Read: Yogi Adityanath’s Ayodhya visit cancelled after minister Kamal Rani Varun’s deathThe Akhil Bhartiya Ram Rajya Parishad Party was floated at the time. On the intervening night of December 22-23, 1949, when Ram idol was placed in the then disputed structure, Digvijay Nath was present in Ayodhya. He motivated volunteers to start prayers. Although the state government directed then district magistrate to remove the idol, he refused to execute the order, stating that the move may lead to communal violence in the area. Pradeep Rao, a teacher at Gorakhpur’s MP Post Graduate College who has done research on the Nath tradition of monasticism and the Goraknath Math, said, “The placing of the idol inside the mosque worked as a catalyst in the Ram temple movement, mobilising devotees and sadhus to take the fight for the temple to the streets, courts and Parliament. Till his death in 1969, Digvijay Nath gave the momentum to the Ram temple movement,” he said. Also Read: Venkaiah Naidu associates Ayodhya Ram Temple with Indian culture, secular valuesThe next mahant, Avaidyanath, continued the movement for the Ram temple. In 1984, he constituted the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Mukti Yagya Samiti to bring all the Hindu organisations and sadhus associated with the Ram temple movement on a single platform. He organised a march from Sitamarhi in Bihar to Ayodhya for liberation of the Ram temple in September 1984. He called upon the people to vote for that party or leader who supported the construction of the Ram temple, Rao said. At the dharam sansad (religious conference) organised at Udupi, Karnataka, on October 31, 1985, Avaidyanath and Ramchandra Das Paramhans, a mahant of the Digambar Akhara, demanded opening of the lock of the mosque so that devotees could offer prayers to the idol. A committee known as the Akhil Bhartiya Sangharsh Samiti was constituted to give a push to the movement. On February 1, 1986, when the then district judge of Faizabad gave the order for opening of the lock, Avaidyanath was present in Ayodhya. In a rally organised in Delhi on September 22, 1989, Avaidyanath announced ‘shilanyas’ at Ram Janmabhoomi on November 9, 1989. Later, in a meeting organised in Haridwar, he announced that sadhus will visit Ayodhya to start construction of the Ram temple. The then union home minister Buta Singh and the then Uttar Pradesh chief minister Narayan Dutt Tiwari urged him to postpone the programme. A few years later, a delegation led by him met the then Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao in the early 1990s. An announcement was made at the dharam sansad held in Delhi on October 30, 1992 that kar sewa for the Ram temple in Ayodhya would be launched from December 2, 1992. Inspired by the temple movement, Yogi Adityanath, a fresh graduate, then known as Ajay Singh Bisht, visited Gorakhpur in 1992 to meet Avaidyanth. He renounced family life to become a monk of the Nath Panth. He became a disciple of Avaidyanath and started participating in meetings of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Mukti Yagya Samiti headed by his guru. The leaders of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad, Bajrang Dal, Hindu Mahasabha, as well as sadhus of Ayodhya, participated in these meetings. The task to organise the meetings was entrusted to the young Adityanath who proved his mettle by inviting the sadhus, heads of various Hindu religious orders and scholars from across the country. Impressed with Adityanath’s capabilities and diligence, Mahant Avaidyanth appointed him his successor in 1996. Soon, he established himself as a leader. Contentious issues like construction of the Ram temple at Ayodhya, uniform civil code, ban on cow slaughter and anti- conversion campaign topped the agenda of these meetings organised in east UP. In 1998, Mahant Avaidyanth decided to bid adieu to active politics. He announced that Adityanath will contest the Lok Sabha election from prestigious Gorakhpur Lok Sabha seat that Avaidyanath had won four times. In 1997-98, when the Ram temple movement started losing its sheen in other parts of UP, Adityanath kept the issue alive in east UP by organising Vishwa Hindu Mahasammelan and Virat Hindu Sangam in Gorakhpur and the adjoining districts. The representatives of 970 Hindu organisations and 10,000 sadhus were invited to the meetings. VHP leader Ashok Singhal also extended support to Adityanath. In 1998, Adityanath was elected to the Lok Sabha from Gorakhpur. He raised the Ram temple as well as Hindutva issues in the House. In 2002, when Adityanath’s relationship with the BJP leadership soured, he not only activated the Hindu Mahasabha in east UP but also launched the Hindu Yuva Vahini (HYV) to mobilise youths for the Ram temple movement. Soon, these organisations spread their wings in central and east UP. After being appointed chief minister on March 19, 2017, Yogi Adityanath has visited Ayodhya several times. The state government declared Ayodhya a municipal corporation, launched projects to promote tourism and amenities for pilgrims, organised Deepotsav on the Diwali eve in 2017, 2018 and 2019. The state government also announced that a 200 feet high statue of Lord Ram would be installed on the banks of the Saryu river in Ayodhya. Amid the Covid-19 pandemic Adityanath visited Ayodhya on March 25, when the idol of Ram Lalla (the child Ram) was shifted to a new pre-fabricated structure. He went there again on July 25 to review preparations for the bhumi pujan and inspect other projects under way in various parts of Ayodhya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tracing-the-role-of-yogi-adityanath-and-gorakhnath-math-in-ram-temple-movement/story-0zaFhkWuRY62qic8FSuWsI.html
03-08-2020||India||First shipment of cargo leaves from Chabahar port for Thailand||A ship carrying Iranian goods bound for Thailand left Chabahar port last week, marking the first time the strategic port has been used to ship a consignment to a Southeast Asian country. MV Libra sailed from Shahid Behesthi terminal of Chabahar port, which is operated by an Indian state-run company, with 123 containers on July 29. This included the first ever shipment from Chabahar to Bangkok, people familiar with developments said. The merchant vessel sailed to Jawaharlal Nehru Port in Mumbai and Mumdra port, from where the consignment will be transhipped to Thailand, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. They said the shipment is significant in view of efforts by India and Iran to enhance the economic viability of Chabahar port. The director general of Iran’s Sistan and Baluchestan Ports and Maritime Organisation, Behrouz Aghaei, was quoted by the Iranian media as saying that this was the first time aquatic products were shipped from Chabahar to Thailand. Afghanistan recently sent a consignment of different products, including dried fruits, to India and China through Shahid Beheshti terminal as well, Aghaei said. The vessel carrying the Afghan goods was the fourth ship that left Chabahar for destinations such as India, China and Thailand during July. India, Afghanistan and Iran signed an agreement in 2016 to jointly develop Chabahar as a trade and transit hub, including for markets in the landlocked Central Asian states to the north. India has used Chabahar since 2017 to transport essential goods and humanitarian supplies, including wheat, to Afghanistan. About 60,000 tonnes of wheat has been shipped from India to Afghanistan through Chabahar since March. The port has also been used by Afghanistan since last year to export goods to India. Hossein Shahdadi, deputy director general of Sistan-Baluchestan province’s ports and maritime department, told IRNA news agency the main goal of the Chabahar development plan is to boost the volume of transit and exports from Iran. A total of 627,000 tonnes of goods were unloaded at the port since March 20, and Shahdadi described the growth in the port’s handling of goods over the past two years as “remarkable”. Chabahar is also the “safest and the most economically efficient route” for export and import of commodities from India, Afghanistan and the Central Asian countries, he said. Iranian officials are also eyeing the possibility of making Chabahar, which was granted a special waiver from US sanctions, the country’s third trade hub after Bandar Abbas and Imam Khomeini ports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-shipment-of-cargo-from-chabahar-port-to-southeast-asia/story-yhH9HtJY02AAjkkRD9JgWL.html
03-08-2020||India||Raksha Bandhan 2020: Denizens prefer online rakhis for variety and quirk factor||Great variety, quirky themes, no hassle of going to the market — more so considering the social distancing norms put in place — online rakhis are a hit this season. And given that there’s something for everyone in the online world, why wouldn’t they be! So ahead of Raksha Bandhan (August 3), here’s your guide to which rakhi to choose for your sibling:Gurugram-based Upasana Mahatani, shares, “I have bought rakhi online for the first time for my brother in New York, USA. One of our entrepreneur moms was selling some adorable food rakhis, so we ordered those.” Pawan Gadia, CEO, Retail & Online, Ferns N Petals, India, UAE & Singapore, shares, “We have come up with 1,000 plus trendy designs of rakhis this year, and some of the unique offerings are agate rakhi, food trails rakhi, etc. We get over 10k orders every day, and deliver in over 80 countries.”Another Gurugram resident, Astuti Bhatnagar, says, “I want simple rakhis for my brothers and elegant ones for my bhabhis. The kind they can wear for more than a day. I have seen a few entrepreneurs selling some really cool ones, and I’m going to order them online.”A Delhiite, Sakshi Jain, says, “I haven’t really thought of venturing out to the markets this year to buy rakhis. I will order them online or will ask my daughters to make them. Although, we did use the online service this time to send rakhis to my brother in the USA.”Abhir Bhalla, a student from a Haryana-based university, says, “Since I wanted to avoid visiting the market because of the pandemic, I decided to order it online. It’s convenient because you can choose from all the options in one place. It’s just like ordering clothes and groceries online; something many of us have shifted to in recent times.” Shivika Mathur, an Udaipur-based student, bought a stethoscope rakhi online for her doctor brother. She says, “I was bored of buying rakhis from the market and wanted a fun design. The quality is top-notch, and you can wear it for a long time too. The variety and pricing are great as well.”Jaipur-based Pallavi Maroo says, “I prefer buying rakhis online or at exhibitions as they are unique and not available in local shops. Since there are no exhibitions this year, I bought cubic zirconia (CZ) stone rakhis online.”Delhi-based Priyansha Sharma has bought a dumbbell shaped rakhi for her brother. “It is perfect for him as he’s a gym and fitness enthusiast. In the traditional way of shopping, I’d have to go from one place to another in search of the perfect rakhi, which means more time and more cost. But with online portals, my perfect rakhi was just a few clicks away,” she says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/raksha-bandhan-2020-denizens-prefer-online-rakhis-for-variety-and-quirk-factor/story-LxIQV66zAQGiTnNPLlZ4cP.html
