04-08-2020||India||Lucknow & its people play suitable characters in Mira’s series!||Lucknow plays a character in Mira Nair’s newest series ‘A Suitable Boy,’ that was extensively shot in the state capital over the period of four months last year. Released in the UK recently, the six-part TV series is based on Vikram Seth’s bestseller with the same name. Shot at number of heritage buildings of Lucknow, besides Kakori and Kanpur, the American-Indian director extensively gave roles to the locals with the ensemble cast. We spoke to few of them: Educationist Zarine Viccajee plays actor Mahira Kakkar’s chatty friend Mrs Batliwala in the series. “I got along well with Mira as she is very fond of Parsis and then she is Loretoite (alumna of Loreto Convent) from Kolkata while I am from Lucknow which was the common ground. It was an enjoyable experience and I had a good number of scenes and dialogues during the shoot,” Zaraine said who has earlier featured in Sushain Bhatnagar’s film ‘Monika’ too. Another educationist-career counsellor Amita Dass also features the series. “Being contacted out of the blues and landing the role of a ‘Sweet Lady’ after auditioning for the book reading scene with actor Mikhail Sen, one of the ‘suitable boys’ was the biggest surprise ever! The entire experience of two long days on the sets from 5:30 am to 9:30 pm was purely magical!” Activist Sadaf Jafar plays Biboo, who is a governess of the courtesan Saeeda Bai played Tabu. “Biboo has the control over the household. I have a sizable role and hope to feature in almost all episodes. A lot of prominent people and places are seen in the series. It will be like watching wedding album of the city,” she says. King George’s Medical University, La Martiniere Boys, Moin Saheb’s kothi in Chowk, Zeenat’s House, Oyal House and Takia Sharif mazaar in Kokari, have been distinctly shown,” adds Jafar. “My residence has been displayed as one of the guest houses where one of the suitable boy (Namit Das) meets the girl (lead actor Tania Maniktala). My 1933-model Baby Austain and Ford Jeep (1942) have been used in the series. My wife has featured in the series in one of the scenes,” shares MA Khan. “Our Lucknow house (Narhi) features in practically every other frame. We spotted the staff and friends dressed up as extras in many frame,” said Zeena Raus, sister of Khalid Hameed.Businessman Kiron Chopra is seen as chief justice of state at that period of time. “The court scene has been shot at KKV College. I pronounce a landmark judgment on land reforms. Besides, others, we had actor Ram Kapoor and Vinay Pathak in the courtroom. We have many others locals in the series. Jayant Krishna will also be seen as one of the dancers at the ball room event,” he said. Veteran actor Dr Anil Rastogi features as a jeweler in one of the episodes. “I have two scenes. One of them was without dialogues while the other one has a few lines. Interestingly, its dubbing was done few weeks back at my home,” says the ‘Ishaqzaade’ actor. Ila Kapoor, a teacher at La Martiniere Girls College, is seen as a professor during a literary gathering shot at KGMU. “I shot for two days at the medical college. It was a funny scene where I am in the front row of the professors. More than the length of role it was great working with ace professional’s like Mira Nair.” Since the show had a UK release and it will be later streamed on an OTT platform in India the audience is yet watch the series. “I was surprised that from Dublin someone shared a picture with my niece in Delhi and she sent to me,” adds Kapoor. Her husband Pradeep has also featured as a professor in the series that stars Ishaan Khattar. Only a few having links in the UK have been able to watch the series while others wait for its pan India release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow-its-people-play-suitable-characters-in-mira-s-series/story-CbLraaD1FUBdShDhxBTsFJ.html
04-08-2020||India||3 former CEOs of Patnitop authority among 72 booked for encroachment||New Delhi: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a case against 74 people, including three former CEOs of Patnitop Development Authority (PDA), in connection with alleged illegal constructions and encroachment of land in Jammu & Kashmir’s resort town of Patnitop, officials aware of the matter said. As many as 62 owners, partners of various hotels, resorts, guest houses and cottages in Patnitop have also been booked.Residences and offices of the three, K K Gupta, MA Malik, and SM Sahni, were among the premises the CBI raided at 11 locations on Tuesday in Jammu, Udhampur, Kathua.CBI registered the case on August 1 on the basis of a preliminary inquiry launched in January this year on the directions of Jammu & Kashmir high court to investigate the irregularities.It has also named five public servants, Rakesh Kumar Sarangal, Raman Kumar Kesar, Rajendra Singh, Avish Jasrotia, and Zaheer Abbas, as accused.HT could not locate any of the accused for a comment.CBI spokesman R K Gaur said: “It was alleged that the public servants having dominion/jurisdiction over land in Patnitop, in conspiracy with the owners/proprietors of the hotels/guest houses/resorts, etc. had allowed illegal construction/illegal use of the said land in violation of the law, leading to loss to the government.” Gaur added many constructions were also allegedly carried without PDA’s permission. “It was also alleged that officials did not take any action despite being aware of such encroachment. In some cases, no compounding fee was allegedly deposited by the hotels.”According to CBI’s First Information Report (FIR), out of 59 hotels, guest houses and resorts under probe, only 21 were registered with the tourism department. But their period for registration has expired and they were being illegally run without permission, it added. “Besides, there are eight hotels/guest houses/resorts who have not been issued any registration and the same are being run illegally.”The FIR said around 17 hotels, which have been granted permission to operate as guest houses, were being run like hotels.The high court ordered the probe after Patnitop’s Hotel and Restaurant Association filed a plea alleging violations to the area’s masterplan. The plea claimed 70% of hotels and restaurants were constructed without permission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-former-ceos-of-patnitop-authority-among-72-booked-for-encroachment/story-8Qb9rxEOzipRE4Vy3rFfEJ.html
04-08-2020||India||Sushant Singh Rajput death: Nothing to do with case, says Aaditya||Mumbai: Maharashtra minister and Shiv Sena leader Aaditya Thackeray on Tuesday lashed out at “dirty politics” over actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death after his name came up in theories floating online and indirect references to him in speculative news reports. The 30-year-old minister, known to have cordial relations with several personalities in the Mumbai-based Hindi film industry, dismissed the allegations, saying he had no connection with the actor’s death on June 14.Thackeray, in a strongly worded statement in Marathi, termed the campaign against him “mudslinging” stemming from of “frustration” of the opposition party, a reference to the Bharatiya Janata Party. Thackeray, in a statement that he tweeted, said that he was not even “remotely” connected to the case of the actor, who is suspected to have committed suicide on June 14.“Those who are pricked by the success and popularity of the Maharashtra government have started dirty politics over the death of Sushant Singh Rajput. Unnecessary mudslinging is going on me and the Thackeray family. This is nothing but dirty politics arisen out of frustration…,” he said in the statement.This is the first time Thackeray has responded to speculation dragging him into the Sushant Singh Rajput case.Over the past few weeks, speculative news reports also indirectly mentioned a “young” politician’s involvement in the case and said that’s why the Maharashtra government headed by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray was not willing to hand over the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).At least two Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLAs from Mumbai—Atul Bhatkhalkar and Ameet Satam—alleged that the Mumbai police are acting under pressure to save an influential young politician. On August 2, Satam, in a letter to Abhishek Trimukhe, deputy commissioner of police (Zone 9), asked if everybody who attended the party at Rajput’s house, allegedly held on June 13, were questioned. “Why are the Mumbai police not collecting the call data records (CRDs) of all those present at the party?” he asked.Thackeray called the “politics over the dead” an assault on humanity. “I am not even remotely connected to the case. I wish to say as the grandson of Hinduruday Samrat Balasaheb Thackeray, that I will never do anything that would hurt the prestige of Maharashtra, Shiv Sena and Thackeray family. The people who are levelling baseless allegations should understand this.” Last week, a photograph of the state environment and tourism minister with an actress went viral. Several people claimed that the actor in the picture was Chakraborty, but it was actually another actress. “The film industry is an integral part of Mumbai. Several thousand livelihoods depend on this industry. I have personal relationships with some from the industry, and it is not a crime,” added Thackeray in the statement.Anil Parab, Sena minister and close aide of CM Thackeray on Tuesday challenged the opposition to show proof of Aaditya Thackeray’s involvement in the Rajput death case.The minister told reporters, “For the past few days, opposition leaders are raising the issue of some links of the young minister in this case. Whoever has evidence that Aaditya Thackeray is connected to the cases, or he went to some party, should come forward. This is nothing but an attempt to malign the image of the young leader.”The Sena minister also took on former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’ wife Amruta Fadnavis, who on Monday tweeted that Mumbai was no longer “safe” to live in. Responding to the tweet, Parab said, “When the government changes, the police force does not; it remains the same. The same police provided them security for five years, and they are protected by the same police even today. If they do not have faith in the police any longer, then she should leave the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-nothing-to-do-with-case-says-aaditya/story-kMdmwRyvtHXMTzBmf0DHtK.html
04-08-2020||India||Humbled that I played a pivotal role: Advani||Bharatiya Janata Party patriarch Lal Krishna Advani on Tuesday said he is humbled that destinay made him the device for the Ram Rath yatra which was taken out from Somnath in Gujarat to Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh in 1990, and served as a defining moment of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement. . In a statement, issued hours before the ground breaking ceremony will take place in Ayodhya to mark the beginning of the construction of the Ram Temple, Advani also referred to the temple’s construction as the fulfilment of a long-pending dream, but completely sidestepped the controversy over his exclusion from the invite list. “Sometimes significant dreams in one’s life take a long time to fruition. But when they are finally realised, the wait becomes very worthwhile. One such dream, close to my heart is now getting fulfilled,” he said. Referring to the temple’s construction he said, “On this auspicious occasion, I want to express my gratitude to the scores of saints, leaders and people from India and the world over who made valuable contributions and sacrifices in the Ram Janmabhoomi movement. And I am also very happy that due to the decisive verdict of the Supreme Court in November 2019, the construction of Shri Ram Mandir is getting started in an environment of tranquility. This will go a long way in strengthening the bond between Indians.” Advani who was the face of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement, along with senior BJP leader Murli Manohar Joshi is also an accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case. In December 1992, kar sevaks ( religious workers) demolished the Babri Masjid that stood at the disputed Ram Janmabhoomi site. Last month Advani sat through the final deposition in the case through a video conferencing facility; the verdict by a CBI special court is expected to come by August 30. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and a host of other senior RSS functionaries are expected to be present for the ceremony on Wednesday morning.  Advani, Joshi and former UP chief minister Kalyan Singh, also a key player in the early years of the movement, will not be present on-site. A functionary at he Vishwa Hindu Parishad claimed invitations were sent out but the leaders were requested to join the ceremony through video conferencing. “Since there is a pandemic and all three of them are elderly and in frail health it was decided that they will be requested to not be physically present for the bhoomi pujan,” said a VHP functionary. HT couldn’t immediately confirm that Advani and Joshi have received invitations. Advani‘s statement itself made no reference to the invitation, he instead expressed hope that the construction of the temple would pave the way for inclusion. “ It is my belief that the Shri Ram Mandir will represent India as a strong, prosperous, peaceful and harmonious nation with justice for all and exclusion of none to truly usher in Ram Rajya, the epitome of good governance.” Former union minister Uma Bharti who was also part of the Rath yatra has already announced that she will pay obeisance at the temple once the ceremony gets over to avoid the risk of infecting the PM during the ground breaking ceremony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/humbled-that-i-played-a-pivotal-role-advani/story-kktc4YKvAH535QWAymJNUI.html
04-08-2020||India||BJP sarpanch injured in militant attack in Kashmir||A BJP sarpanch was critically injured in an attack by militants Tuesday night in South Kashmir’s Kulgam district, police said.Police said militants attacked sarpanch Arif Ahmad at Akhran .Inspector General of Police Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said that terrorists fired up on Ahmad.“He was shifted to a hospital in Qazigund. He had a firearm injury in his neck and his condition is critical.”BJP spokesman Altaf Thakur also confirmed the attack. “He (Arif) was targeted by the militants inside his house and has been shifted to hospital for treatment.”This is the second targeted attack on BJP leaders in Kashmir in the last one month. Last month, former BJP district president Waseem Bari, his father and brother were killed inside their shop after militants fired on them from close range. Bari had a 10-member police security and all of them were suspended and arrested because they were not with him when he was attacked.In June, Congress sarpanch Ajay Kumar Pandita was killed outside his house at Lokbhawan in Anantnag district. On Tuesday, militants also attacked a police party at Wanpora area which falls on the border of Pulwama and Budgam districts. Two policemen were injured in the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-sarpanch-injured-in-militant-attack-in-kashmir/story-04Telek3KBVQ2Nrag7ScQK.html
04-08-2020||India||Foreign secretary holds telephonic conversation with Russian dy foreign minister||Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla and Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Igor Morgulov held a telephonic conversation on Tuesday, covering a range of bilateral, regional and international issues. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said they discussed the forthcoming meetings of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) and the five-nation BRICS grouping. It said Shringla and Morgulov also deliberated on preparatory meetings ahead of the India-Russia annual summit later this year. “The foreign secretary and the deputy foreign minister also exchanged views on various regional and international issues of mutual interest reflecting common ground and approaches. Both sides agreed to maintain regular contacts,” the MEA said in a statement. Both the BRICS (Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa) and SCO are important groupings for India. The BRICS represents over 3.6 billion people, or half of the world population and they have a combined GDP of USD 16.6 trillion. The SCO, seen as a counterweight to NATO, has emerged as one of largest transregional international organisations which accounts for almost 44 per cent of the world population stretching from the Arctic Ocean to the Indian Ocean and from the Pacific Ocean to the Baltic Sea. The aim of the SCO is to maintain peace, stability and security in the region. India became a member of the SCO in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-secretary-holds-telephonic-conversation-with-russian-dy-foreign-minister/story-mNhcLjBprOoQ4Gf15dtbzI.html
04-08-2020||India||Raj Thackeray lauds Centre for legal battle for Ram temple and building ‘consensus’||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena chief Raj Thakeray has thanked the “Narendra Modi government” for its efforts during the judicial battle for Ayodhya Ram temple and the “creating an atmosphere of consensus” for the construction of Ram temple on the eve of the foundation stone laying ceremony to be held in Ayodhya on Wednesday.Thackeray, in a statement he tweeted on behalf of his party, recalled the decades long Ram Janmabhoomi movement to say the occasion of bhumi pujan for the temple in Ayodhya truly marked the “end of Lord Ram’s exile”. “This struggle has been a relentless story and be it either the judicial battle or creating a riveting atmosphere of consensus, the efforts made by the Narendra Modi government have been remarkable and I wholeheartedly thank them for the same,” the MNS statement tweeted by Thackeray said.Also Read: ‘Dream close to my heart getting fulfilled’: LK Advani on Ram temple eventPrime Minister Narendra Modi will have the honour of laying the foundation stone for the Ram temple in the presence of several prominent seers and also representatives from faiths other than Hinduism, who have been invited among the 175 select guests for the ceremony.The Supreme Court settled the age old dispute over the land considered to be the birthplace of Lord Rama through its November 2019 order which dismissed the Muslim parties’ claim to the disputed land, made on the basis of existence of Babri Masjid at the place. The Hindu parties’ argument of the disputed site originally belonging to a Ram temple, which was demolished to erect a Mosque in its place, was accepted, supported by archeological findings of Hindu religious structures buried under the land beneath the rubbles of the Babri mosque.Also Read: Lord Ram’s will that I attend ceremony: Title suit litigant The court asked the government to form a trust for construction of Ram temple and also ordered awarding of separate land for building a mosque on the outskirts of the temple town. Most of the Muslim organisations have accepted the court’s decision.Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and members of the Ram temple trust have argued that the temple should be seen as a symbol of Indian culture and unity. The temple committee has invited personalities from different faiths for the bhumi pujan ceremony and also indicated that donations from members of other faiths to build the Ram temple were welcome.“Presently, we are amidst an ongoing corona pandemic, but this did not stop the countless Indians with their burning desire of making the Ram Mandir dream come true. I am confident that it’s this very spirit and strength that will pull India out of this coronavirus crisis as well,” Raj Thackeray’s statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raj-thackeray-lauds-centre-for-legal-battle-for-ram-temple-and-building-consensus/story-YSbkynCNy390aGsIRVsb7L.html
04-08-2020||India||Haryana reports 8 more Covid-19 deaths; 623 fresh cases||Haryana on Tuesday reported eight more deaths due to Covid-19, while 623 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 37,796, the state health department said.Sirsa district reported three fatalities, and Faridabad, Rohtak, Jhajjar, Kurukshetra and Fatehabad one death each, the department said in its daily bulletin.The death toll due to Covid-19 in Haryana has reached 448.Among the districts which reported fresh cases include Faridabad (169), Rohtak (96), Panipat (50), Gurgaon (46), Ambala (32), Yamunanagar (22) and Sirsa (19), it said.So far, 31,226 patients have been discharged after treatment. The state now has 6,122 active Covid-19 cases. As of Tuesday, the state’s recovery rate was nearly 82.62 per cent, while the rate of doubling of cases was 26 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/haryana-reports-8-more-covid-19-deaths-623-fresh-cases/story-OR1yDtwm5WSLVYN3dS4hzI.html
04-08-2020||India||Brothers stab each other to death in late night brawl in Ghaziabad||Two brothers aged 32 and 28 died after stabbing each other in a brawl in Ghaziabad’s Sahibabad area late Monday night, the Ghaziabad police said Tuesday.Both were rushed to a hospital where they succumbed soon after, police said.Mohan Lal (28) and his brother Sagar Kumar (32) alias Mota got into a brawl outside their uncle’s house near their own house in Rajiv Colony. Police said both were drunk and inflicted multiple injuries on each other.“There was some household dispute between the two and soon there was heated exchange of words which resulted in the bloody fight. As both were allegedly inebriated, they picked up knives from the house and inflicted multiple injuries to each other. This resulted in critical injuries and blood loss. After the police were informed they were rushed to the hospital but both succumbed,” said Manish Mishra, superintendent of police (city).“There was no motive behind the fight but small domestic disputes between the two brothers which finally ended in two murders. There is no issue about the property as their house is small, about 50 square yards,” he added.The police said that Sagar was married and had a two-year-old son and a daughter born 10 days ago. His younger brother Mohan Lal was unmarried but used to stay in the same house with Sagar.“Soon after the incident, their cousin lodged a complaint and we registered a case of attempt to murder. But later the men died so the case will have no suspect or victim now,” said an officer from the Sahibabad police station.The two men were the second and third among four siblings in the family and worked as daily wage earners. Their elder brother, Ujagar Lal, stays in Nandgram while the youngest brother stays in the same house with the two victims besides their father.Family members refused to speak to reporters. “There had been altercations between the two brothers in the past but the one which ensued on Monday night turned fateful for the family. They were drinking together but ended up in a fight after which they picked up knives and stabbed each other. The family is poor and we neighbours are trying to help them out in performing the cremation and also helped them complete the post mortem formalities,” said Sujit Giri, a neighbour and husband of the local councillor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brothers-stab-each-other-to-death-in-late-night-brawl-in-ghaziabad/story-Ew55N1p8JkZLSwyEJkCTxK.html
04-08-2020||India||Human clinical trials of indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine candidates move to Phase 2: ICMR||The Phase 1 human clinical trials of two Covid-19 vaccine candidates developed indigenously by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with ICMR and Zydus Cadila Ltd have been completed and the trials have moved to Phase 2, ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said on Tuesday.Addressing a press briefing, he said once a safe and effective vaccine is developed, the focus should be on prioritisation and its fair distribution, roll-out and cold chain logistics, stockpiling and training of people who would be administering the vaccine.There are about 141 candidates that are being studied worldover and 26 are in different phases of clinical trials, he said.“At the present moment, there are three vaccines which are in different phases of clinical testing in India. The first one is the inactivated virus vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech which has completed its Phase 1 study in 11 sites and has started its Phase 2 study. Phase 1 and 2 are safety and very early efficacy studies.“Similarly Zydus Cadila’s DNA vaccine has also completed Phase 1 studies in 11 sites and started its Phase 2 trials which is also progressing. Recombinant Oxford vaccine to be manufactured by Serum Institute of India, Pune was given approval yesterday for Phase 2 and 3 clinical trials which would start within a week at 17 sites,” Bhargava said at the briefing.Underlining the urgency for the need of a vaccine, the ICMR official said though the pandemic is progressing rapidly, developing a vaccine takes time “not only from the science aspect, but also from the social, cultural and regulatory aspects”.He, however, emphasised that till a safe and effective vaccine becomes available, sustained behavioural change, physical distancing, wearing masks and proper hand hygiene, is probably the best vaccine available at the moment, and even these measures have to be continued absolutely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/human-clinical-trials-of-indigenously-developed-covid-19-vaccine-candidates-move-to-phase-2-icmr/story-UslelmRuWk1SmZe7FELK5J.html
04-08-2020||India||BSP seeks stay on merger of six BSP MLAs with Congress in Rajasthan, hearing tomorrow||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA, Madan Dilawar, filed an appeal in the division bench of the Rajasthan High Court on Tuesday seeking stay on the Speaker’s decision to uphold merger of six BSP MLAs with the Congress last year.The appeal will be heard on Wednesday. “We have prayed to accept our special appeal and to suspend the effect of the order of assembly speaker dated September 18, 2019, whereby he has declared that 6 elected representatives of BSP have merged with the Indian National Congress (INC),” said Dinesh Kumar Garg, counsel for BSP. He said that earlier the single bench of HC had issued notice to the six MLAs, who are at present in a private hotel in Jaisalmer, and had sought a reply from them by August 11.Also Read: Rajasthan’s SOG drops sedition charge, transfers horse trading cases to anti-corruption bureau“As per the news published in the daily newspapers that the six MLAs were staying at a hotel in Jaipur and have now shifted to Jaisalmer in some hotels and therefore, service of the notices upon the respondents is not possible. The Rajasthan assembly session is proposed to start on August 14. If the stay prayed for is not granted, the present matter would be rendered infructuous and it will defeat the whole purpose of filing of the present writ petition before the court,” Garg said. On last Thursday, the a single bench of HC had issued notices to the assembly speaker C P Joshi, secretary of assembly secretariat and six legislators, who won the 2018 elections on Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) tickets and joined the Congress in September 2019, on two petitions seeking disqualification of the six MLAs. Also Read:Sachin Pilot camp denies BJP leader met them at Haryana resort The next hearing in the case is scheduled for August 11, by when the assembly speaker CP Joshi, secretary of assembly secretariat and six BSP MLAs — Sandeep Yadav (Tijara), Wajib Ali (Nagar), Deepchand Kheria (Kisangarh Bas), LakhanMeena (Karauli) and Rajendra Gudha (Udaipurwati)-- have been asked to submit their replies.BSP national general secretary Satish Mishra and BJP lawmaker Madan Dilawar filed separate petitions in the HC against the merger on July 28 last, saying the move by the MLAs was unconstitutional as neither the state BSP nor the party at the national level had merged with the Congress — a contention the Congress has rejected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsp-seeks-stay-on-merger-of-six-bsp-mlas-with-congress-in-rajasthan-hearing-tomorrow/story-mdJWWYGv3ZrH3sfltGRzOK.html
04-08-2020||India||Woman dies in brutal exorcism ritual in Telangana’s Karimnagar, sorcerer arrested||The police in Telangana’s Karimnagar district on Tuesday arrested a self-styled sorcerer who allegedly beat up a 24-year old woman to “ward off evil spirits” four days ago leading to her death Monday night. The victim, Kanukuntla Rajitha, mother of a two-month old baby girl, succumbed to injuries at a private hospital in Karimnagar town on Monday night. “We have arrested the accused, Doggala Shyam and booked a case under Section 307 (attempt to murder) on him. He was handed over to the Jaypur police station in Mancherial district, where the incident happened,” Karimnagar commissioner of police V B Kamalasan Reddy told Hindustan Times.The woman’s uncle Pulikota Ravinder, who engaged the sorcerer, was also arrested. “The accused were produced before the court and sent to 14-day judicial remand,” Reddy said.A video of Rajitha being beaten indiscriminately by Shyam on the pretext of driving away evil spirits from her surfaced in the social media on Monday.Inquiries by the police revealed that Rajitha, an orphan, who pursued her graduation while staying in a social welfare hostel in Karimnagar, had been working as a salesgirl in a supermarket in Hyderabad since 2018. She came in contact with Mallesh from Gaddapaka village of Mancherial district, also a salesman and married him last year. Two months ago, Rajitha delivered a baby girl. Since then, she had not been keeping good health. As she failed to recover even after treatment in the government hospitals at Mancherial and Karimnagar, her in-laws approached sorcerer Shyam, a native of Gaddapaka, through Ravinder. On the request of Ravinder, Shyam visited Mallesh’s house four days ago and thrashed Rajitha severely stating that she was being troubled by evil spirits. He even got the “treatment” recorded in a mobile. Unable to bear the torture, Rajitha fell unconscious. Her husband and in-laws brought her to Karimnagar for treatment. They admitted her in a private hospital, where she succumbed on Monday night. “The body was handed over to the family after post-mortem, which mentioned that she died of internal bleeding in the head,” the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-dies-in-brutal-exorcism-ritual-in-telangana-s-karimnagar-sorcerer-arrested/story-02KCRobMW8QUmQ4uyzLbsI.html
04-08-2020||India||Nepal assures to remove encroachment in no-man’s land near Uttarakhand border in an informal meet||Indian and Nepal authorities held an informal two hour long meeting on Tuesday at the Indo-Nepal border near Champawat district of Uttarakhand to discuss the encroachment in no man’s land by Nepalese citizens and agreed not to carry any activity on the disputed land and to restore the status quo, said officials. The meeting was attended by the district magistrate of Champawat, superintendent of police (SP), Champawat and commandant of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) from the Indian side. The Nepalese side was represented by chief district officer (equivalent to DM in India) of Kanchanpur district adjoining the border in Nepal, SP Kanchanpur and SP Armed Police Force (SSB’s counterpart). “Both the sides discussed the border issue and agreed upon taking measures to not allow it (tensions) to escalate. We also agreed on not carrying any activity on the disputed land till the border is clearly demarcated,” said Surendra Narayan Pandey, district magistrate Champawat district. Watch: One Indian national among ten killed in landslides in NepalPandey added that the two sides also agreed to restore the state quo at the no man’s land during the meeting. The meeting was meant for confidence-building and maintaining harmony between the two sides, Pandey said. “We both stressed on ending the border dispute permanently by involving the agencies concerned in both the countries to conduct a survey of the disputed area so as to demarcate the border clearly. We all also agreed to end the dispute and restore the status quo as it was earlier before the recent encroachment by Nepalese people on no-man’s land,” said Pandey. ‘Make sure differences do not escalate into disputes’: China to India on border rowThe India officials said that their Nepalese counterparts had assured that the fencing pillars erected in the no-man’s land will be removed.“Nepalese authorities assured that they will soon work on it and remove them. Till the border is not demarcated, no objectionable activity will be carried by any side at the border,” said DM Champawat.The two sides also agreed to soon hold a formal meeting on the border issue to resolve it soon. The genesis of the current row along the Indo-Nepal border in Champawat district lies in Nepalese people erecting fencing pillars on the no-man’s land near the border on July 22. Following the development, India’s border patrolling agency SSB held a meeting with Nepal’s APF on July 23, in which the latter assured to remove the encroachment which was not fulfilled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-agrees-to-remove-encroachment-in-no-man-s-land-near-uttarakhand-border/story-2jubjCWo4bWjvwbzNxuQ0J.html
04-08-2020||India||Rajasthan’s SOG drops sedition charge, transfers horse trading cases to anti-corruption bureau||The special operations group (SOG) of Rajasthan Police on Tuesday handed over the three cases related to attempts to topple Congress government in the state to the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) after dropping charges of sedition, an official said.This happened on the day the Rajasthan high court was supposed to hear a petition of rebel Congress MLA Bhanwarilal Sharma seeking quashing of SOG case against him or referring the case to National Investigation Agency as sedition charges were pressed against him.“The hearing on the petition would be held on August 13,” said Anil Upman, special public prosecutor. “We informed the court that the SOG has filed an application in the lower court that investigation of the cases should be done by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) as the preliminary investigation reveals only corruption charges. Hence, the petition should be considered as infructuous.” SOG’s additional director general of police, Ashok Rathore, said facts related to corruption surfaced during the preliminary probe. “We took suggestions from legal experts and on the basis of their advice, we are sending all documents related to cases in FIR Nos. 47, 48 and 49 to the ACB,” he said. The SOG has so far registered three FIRs on the complaint filed by Congress chief whip in Rajasthan assembly, Mahesh Joshi, related to the horse-trading allegedly aimed at dislodging the Congress government in the state.The first FIR, number 47, was registered on July 10, in which two accused, Ashok Jain from Banswara and Bharat Malani, were arrested. They are presently in judicial custody.The second and third FIRs, numbers 48 and 49, were registered on July 17. In the FIR number 48, Sadulshahar MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma, Sanjay Jain and Gajendra Singh were booked. Jain was arrested on July 17. The SOG reports to chief minister Ashok Gehlot.Sanjay Jain’s counsel Vivek Bajwa said that the SOG filed an application in the court of the chief judicial magistrate court saying that evidences found so far do not make out 124-A (sedition) charges and the investigation should be done by the ACB.“We have requested the court that in the SOG FIRs charges of only criminal conspiracy are left which is a bailable offence. We have requested the local court to grant bail to my client Sanjay Jain and the hearing on the bail application would be held tomorrow,” said Bajwa.An MLA from the Sachin Pilot camp said the sedition charge was dropped because of the petition by Bhanwarlal Sharma in the high court to transfer the case to the NIA.Legal expert Akhil Choudhary said that Indian Penal Code does not criminalize actions of destabilsing Government, but if the Government wanted to at all criminalize such actions, as is happening in Rajasthan, and have happened earlier in Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, then the sections of Prevention of Corruption could have been used against receiving or attempting to receive bribes. “MLAs are public servants under the Prevention of Corruption Act, and they can be prosecuted for such offences,” he said.State Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Satish Poonia said that the party had maintained that sedition provisions in the IPC were very old and were used by British to suppress the freedom fighters.“There were no legal grounds to get the FIR registered under sections of sedition. Congress was afraid that the FIR may be quashed by the HC. The withdrawal reveals the moral defeat and exposure of Congress’ plan to create fear in independents and MLAs of an independent party. It has also revealed that the ACB and SOG are being misused,” Poonia said.Reacting to the allegations of Poonia, state Congress spokesperson Archana Sharma said that it is a moral victory for chief minister Ashok Gehlot because the investigation revealed that the MLAs were offered money. “This is a moral victory for the Congress as preliminary investigation reveals that facts regarding the offering of money were true,” Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-s-sog-drops-sedition-charge-transfers-horse-trading-cases-to-anti-corruption-bureau/story-MwnTqx0wdSoIXP5m13cccO.html
04-08-2020||India||All religious places in J-K including Vaishno Devi to re-open from August 16||In a major decision, the government of Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday announced to re-open all religious places and places of worship including Shri Mata Vaishno Devi shrine in Reasi district of Jammu and Kashmir. “Major decision by J-K Government. All religious places and places of worship to open in Jammu & Kashmir from August 16, 2020. Religious processions and large religious gatherings remain strictly prohibited,” principal secretary and government spokesperson Rohit Kansal posted on his Twitter handle this evening. A senior official of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board said, “since the government has taken a decision to open religious places, we shall be strictly adhering to the Covid-19 SOPs before re-opening the shrine to devotees.” It may be recalled the Centre had given its nod to re-open religious places from June 8 but following a spike in Covid-19 cases and death toll the decision was put on hold. Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board, however, has done all the spade work. “Sanitisation drives were being conducted on twin tracks, sanctum sanctorum and at Katra town. Circles are also being marked outside Yatra Parchi counter, at the Bhawan and two helipads at Katra and Sanji Chhat to ensure social distancing,” said official sources. It has also been learnt that initially, local pilgrims will be allowed to visit the cave shrine. The pilgrimage remains suspended since March 18. Apart from helicopter service, the shrine board also provides battery car and ropeway services to the pilgrims. Vaishno Devi cave shrine at an altitude of 5,200 ft in Trikuta Hills of Reasi district, a pilgrimage tourist destination that attracted 104.95 lakh pilgrims (10.4 Million) in 2012, 93.24 lakh in 2013, 78.03 lakh in 2014, 77.76 lakh in 2015, 77.23 lakh in 2016, 85.87 lakh in 2018 and 79.40 lakh in 2019. Earlier, the J&K government had to cancel the annual Amarnath pilgrimage in south Kashmir Himalayas due to Covid -9 pandemic. The union territory has so far witnessed 417 Covid-19 deaths and a total of 22,396 positive cases out of which 14,856 have been cured and discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-religious-places-in-j-k-including-vaishno-devi-to-re-open-from-august-16/story-C319fI6XclG7AJDxZR1KaK.html
04-08-2020||India||Governor approves CBI probe in Sushant death case amid Bihar-Maharashtra turf war||Bihar governor on Tuesday evening gave his assent to state government’s recommendation to hand over probe in Sushant Singh Rajput death case registered in Patna to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) amid fierce opposition of the move by Maharashtra government.Earlier today Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar had made the recommendation to hand over the case of abetment of Rajput’s suicide registered against his former live-in partner and actor Rhea Chakarborty to the CBI following a request from Sushant’s father KK Rajput. Announcing the decision, the Bihar CM had said that his government will finish all formalities for sending the recommendation today itself. The Bihar governor’s approval to the recommendation by the state government follows questions being raised on Bihar government and police’s locus standi in an incident that took place in the state of Maharashtra.Some prominent Maharashtra ministers have said that while Bihar police had the right to seek information from Mumbai police in the case; it had no right to investigate the case in Maharashtra. Maharashtra ministers have also extended the argument to question the legal sanctity of Bihar government’s recommendation for a CBI probe into the case, which is already being investigated by Maharashtra police.“In the past 5 years, many incidents of suicides and deaths took place, were all the cases transferred to CBI? Mumbai Police is competent enough to handle the Sushant Singh Rajput case and we support them,” Maharashtra minister Anil Parab was quoted as saying by ANI.Anil Parab also termed Bihar government’s decision to be “politically motivated”. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut had earlier claimed that the decision was influenced by the state assembly polls to be held in Bihar later this year.The turf between the two states started with allegations that Mumbai police was engaged in a cover-up of the case under pressure from influential people. Soon, Sushant’s family filed a case of abetment of suicide against actor Rhea Chakarborty in Patna alleging they had no faith in Mumbai police’s probe. Sushant’s father further claimed a few days ago that Mumbai police had taken no action on his complaint made in February this year alleging there was a threat to Sushant’s life. Mumbai police have denied receiving any written complaint.The demand for a CBI probe in Sushant’s death case has been supported by almost all political parties in Bihar across the political spectrum.The alleged conspiracy theory behind Sushant’s death received a fresh shot in the arm on Tuesday with prominent BJP leader in Maharashtra, Narayan Rane claiming that the budding actor was murdered and his death could also be linked to the death of his former manager Disha Salian.34-year old Rajput was found dead at his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14 and since then conspiracy theories alleging involvement of influential Bollywood and political personalities have been made.Earlier today, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s son and a minister in his cabinet, Aaditya Thackeray released a statement distancing himself from rumours linking him to Rajput’s death. He hit out at BJP leaders saying there was an attempt to politicize the death by frustrated people who were jealous of Maharashtra government’s popularity.On Monday, former chief minister and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis’s wife Amruta Fadnavis tweeted that Mumbai had lost its “humanity” and was “no more safe to live” looking at the way the metropolis’ police was handling the Sushant Singh Rajput case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/governor-approves-cbi-probe-in-sushant-death-case-amid-bihar-maharashtra-turf-war/story-Uk7h5aqVqBCi3fGSGga6UL.html
04-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 pm: Locust situation grim along Indo-Pak border, some swarms may reach this month, says UN body and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Locust situation grim along Indo-Pak border, some swarms may reach this month: FAOThe current situation remains serious along both sides of the Indo-Pakistan border where locust monsoon breeding is underway by spring-bred swarms, including those returning from northern India, and substantial hatching and band formation are expected in August, the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations (FAO) said on Monday.Read more. ‘Make sure differences do not escalate into disputes’: China to India on border rowChina on Tuesday said the boundary problem with India should be placed in an “proper” position in bilateral ties and the two countries should ensure that differences do not escalate into disputes.The Chinese foreign ministry said Beijing hopes New Delhi will work together with it to safeguard overall interests of the bilateral ties.Read more. ‘Read the Constitution’: Nitish Kumar faces pushback for CBI probe in Sushant caseBihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday set up a fresh row over investigations into Sushant Singh Rajput death, recommending a CBI probe into the actor’s death on June 14. Kumar’s announcement came after Bihar police chief Gupteshwar Pandey spoke with the actor’s father earlier in the day.Read more. Cabinet minister Dharmendra Pradhan tweets he is Covid-19 +ve, admitted to hospitalUnion petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan tweeted Tuesday evening that he has tested positive for Covid-19 and has been admitted to hospital.In a tweet he said he underwent a test when he noticed symptoms of Covid-19 and the report came positive following which he has been hospitalized.Read more. ‘I am proud of you, Delhiites’, says CM Kejriwal as city’s active coronavirus cases now less than 10,000Delhi on Tuesday recorded 674 fresh cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the cumulative tally of infection count to 1,39,156. The death toll reached 4,033 on Tuesday after national capital also recorded 12 new deaths, lowest Delhi has reported in a day since the death figures were revised by authorities in June.Read more. Theatre doyen Ebrahim Alkazi who trained Naseeruddin Shah, Om Puri dies at 94Indian theatre doyen, director and legendary drama teacher Ebrahim Alkazi, who has been synonymous with Delhi’s National School of Drama, died on Tuesday afternoon after suffering a heart attack, his son said. He was 94.Read more. Vivo to pull out of IPL 2020 title sponsorship: BCCI sourcesChinese mobile phone company Vivo is likely to pull out as the Indian Premier League’s title sponsor for this year and is in talks with the Indian cricket board for an “amicable separation” amid rising Sino-India diplomatic tensions.Read more. Realme Smart TV review: Pocket friendly and meets expectationsRealme’s first foray into the smart TV space gets a lot of things right - good enough picture quality, decent sound and an easy-to-use interface. For all the things it misses, you can count on it to learn from this and get better. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-locust-situation-grim-along-indo-pak-border-some-swarms-may-reach-this-month-says-un-body-and-all-the-latest-news/story-yZMcgzYw0f8EZJrF56ATVP.html
04-08-2020||India||MiG-23 on AMU campus put up for sale on OLX, varsity calls it mischief||A MiG-23 aircraft gifted to the Aligarh Muslim University by the Indian Air Force (IAF) in 2009 appeared on online platform OLX for sale with price tag of Rs. 9.99 crore. AMU Mohd. Wasim Ali proctor issued a denial on Tuesday and said that a complaint would be lodged with the police to trace the fraudster who had played this ‘mischief’. On Monday, there was an advertisement on OLX, an online sale-purchase platform, for sale of the MiG-23 aircraft placed in front of the Engineering College on AMU campus. The price quoted was Rs. 9,99,99,000 and the photograph of the aircraft was also uploaded. “This MiG-23 aircraft was gifted to AMU in 2009 after the Kargil War to motivate students of engineering. There was no such sale offer by AMU and this is an act of mischief aimed at maligning the image of the varsity,” Ali said.“We are probing the matter although it is learnt that the mischievous sale offer has now been removed from OLX. The guilty could be anyone and we are shortly going to make a police complaint in this regard,” he said. Public relations officer (PRO) of AMU, Omar Peerzada too condemned the fake sale offer and said that the proctorial department of the university was in action in this regard. The aircraft which saw action in Kargil in 1999 was decommissioned in 2009.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mig-23-on-amu-campus-put-up-for-sale-on-olx-varsity-calls-it-mischief/story-YSZ5EFeSFsOoEFPnsQutoJ.html
04-08-2020||India||Revolutionary balladeer Vangapandu Prasada Rao dies at 77||Popular Telugu balladeer Vangapandu Prasada Rao, who captivated the audience with his thought provoking songs and speeches, died of prolonged illness at his residence at Parvathipuram in Andhra Pradesh’s Vizianagaram district on Monday. He was 77.He is survived by his wife Vijayalakshmi, three sons and a daughter. “He had been ailing for quite some time. He breathed his last in the early hours,” said his daughter Vangapandu Usha, who is heading Andhra Pradesh’s Creativity and Cultural Commission.He had worked as a technical worker at Hindustan Ship Yard, Visakhapatnam, between 1976 and 1999.Hailing from Pedabondapalli village of Parvathipuram block, Vangapandu was inspired by Adibhatla Kailasam, and took to writing folk songs that inspired thousands of youths in the region.Vangapandu, along with another popular revolutionary balladder of Telangana Gaddar, founded Jana Natya Mandali, the cultural wing of the CPI (Marxist-Leninist) People’s War Group (which later became CPI (Maoist) in 2004).Like Gaddar, Vangapandu, too, was known for singing his own songs with his typical north-coastal Andhra style, that used to mesmerise the audience. He gave more than 2,000 performances not only in undivided Andhra but also various parts of India.He, however, distanced himself from the active revolutionary movement, but continued to take up the cause of the peasants, industrial labour and the oppressed sections of the society. Several of his songs – Jajjanakari Janaare Janaku Jana Janaare and Em Pillado Eldamostavaa – were used in Telugu films and have become runaway hits.Vangapandu was a recipient of the prestigious Kala Ratna award in 2017 for his work in the tribal arts.Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, Telugu Desam Party president N Chandrababu Naidu and others condoled the demise of Vangapandu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/revolutionary-balladeer-vangapandu-prasada-rao-dies-at-77/story-O5pIR5QuCJH0sjzklEF3LL.html
04-08-2020||India||‘Dream close to my heart getting fulfilled’: LK Advani on Ram temple event||Bharatiya Janata Party patriarch LK Advani on Tuesday said he feels humbled that during the Ram Janmabhoomi movement destiny made him perform a pivotal duty in the form of the Ram Rath yatra which was taken out from Somnath in Gujarat to Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh in 1990. Advani, in a statement issued a day before the ground-breaking ceremony will take place in Ayodhya to mark the beginning of the construction of the Ram Temple, also referred to the temple’s construction as the fulfilment of a long pending dream. “Sometimes significant dreams in one’s life take a long time to fruition. But when they are finally realised, the wait is worthwhile. One such dream, close to my heart is now getting fulfilled,” he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and a host of other senior RSS functionaries will be present in Ayodhya for the mega ceremony on Wednesday morning. Referring to the temple’s construction, the veteran BJP leader said, “On this auspicious occasion, I want to express my gratitude to the scores of saints, leaders and people from India and the world over who made valuable contributions and sacrifices in the Ram Janmabhoomi movement. And I am also very happy that due to the decisive verdict of the Supreme Court in November 2019, the construction of Shri Ram Mandir is getting started in an environment of tranquility. This will go a long way in strengthening the bond between Indians.” The day, he said, is historical and emotional not only for him but all Indians. Advani, along with senior BJP leader Murli Manohar Joshi, is also an accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case. In December 1992, Kar Sevaks had demolished the Babri Masjid that stood at the disputed site for over 400 years. Last month, Advani sat through the final deposition in the case through a video conferencing facility; the verdict by a CBI special court is expected to come by August 30. A controversy was also stoked about the invitation to attend the ceremony not being sent to Advani, Joshi and former Uttra Pradesh CM Kalyan Singh. A functionary of the Vishva Hindu Parishad, however, said the invitations were sent but the leaders were requested to join the ceremony through video conferencing. “Since there is a pandemic and all three of them are elderly and in frail health it was decided that they will be requested to not be physically present for the Bhumi Poojan,” said a VHP functionary. Advani‘s statement made no reference to the invitation, he instead expressed hope that the construction of the temple would pave the way for inclusion. “It is my belief that the Ram Mandir will represent India as a strong, prosperous, peaceful and harmonious nation with justice for all and exclusion of none to truly usher in Ram Rajya, the epitome of good governance,” he said. Former union minister Uma Bharti, who was also part of the Rath Rath yatra, has already announced that she will pay obeisance at the temple once the ceremony gets over as a precaution against the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-laying-foundation-stone-of-ram-mandir-is-a-historical-and-emotional-day-not-only-for-me-but-for-all-indians-l-k-advani/story-8CYXLfIEEx9Bua6AtYy67N.html
04-08-2020||India||India remarks on Pakistan’s move, terms it so-called “political map”. Read full statement here||India on Tuesday remarked on Imran Khan-led Pakistan’s government’s new move of unveiling a new “political map of Pakistan” that counts Jammu and Kashmir and Junagadh in Gujarat as its territories.Dubbing it as ‘an exercise in political absurdity’, India said Pakistan’s ‘ridiculous assertions’ do not have leal validity nor international credibility. Also read | ‘Cartographic hallucination’: Pakistan issues a new political map to needle IndiaHere is the full statement released by ministry of external affairs:We have seen a so-called “political map” of Pakistan that has been released by Prime Minister Imran Khan. This is an exercise in political absurdity, laying untenable claims to territories in the Indian State of Gujarat and our Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and of Ladakh. These ridiculous assertions have neither legal validity nor international credibility. In fact, this new effort only confirms reality of Pakistan’s obsession with territorial aggrandisement supported by cross-border terrorism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-remarks-on-pakistan-s-move-terms-it-so-called-political-map-read-full-statement-here/story-y9m6fixRMrbq1NtQRULtML.html
04-08-2020||India||Brothers stab each other to death in Ghaziabad||Two brothers in an inebriated state stabbed each other to death at their home here, police said on Tuesday. Mohan Lal, 28, and Mota, 32, engaged in an argument over some issue after getting drunk on Monday night. They then stabbed each other with knives, City superintendent of police Maneesh Mishra said. Police reached the spot after getting information about the incident and took them to MMG district hospital, where they died during treatment.   The bodies were sent for post-mortem, Mishra said, adding that the police have registered an FIR on the complaint of their nephew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brothers-stab-each-other-to-death-in-ghaziabad/story-CDlcXbCgBbTJ4cGvs8ZyrJ.html
04-08-2020||India||Ram in heart of all Congressmen, says party leader ahead of Ayodhya event||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president DK Shivakumar on Tuesday declared that ‘Lord Ram is in the hearts of all Congressmen’ and that they do not need an invitation from anyone. A mega event is scheduled to take place tomorrow for the ground-breaking ceremony of the proposed Ram temple in Ayodhya.“Construction of Ram temple is not anybody’s personal property. We don’t need an invitation from anybody. Happy to watch it on television. Lord Ram (resides) in the heart of all Congressmen,” said Shivakumar while responding to a question at a press conference in Kalburgi district. Another senior Congress leader RV Deshpande said: “The Congress has already welcomed the Supreme Court decision on Ram temple. All Indians should follow the principles propagated by Lord Ram and the construction of the temple should be done by winning everybody’s confidence rather than using it as a measure to divide people.”Shivakumar, who was on a maiden visit to the district after taking over as the KPCC president, repeated the Congress party’s allegation that there was large scale corruption amounting to more than Rs 2,000 crore in the procurement of medical equipment required for the treatment of Covid patients.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has served a legal notice to both Shivakumar as well as leader of opposition in assembly Siddaramiah for what it has alleged are false, baseless and defamatory charges. It has asked the leaders of the opposition to apologise and withdraw remarks or face legal action.Meanwhile, Siddaramiah too, who has tested positive for Covid-19, has been admitted to the same Manipal Hospital in Bengaluru where Covid-19 positive CM Yediyurappa is undergoing treatment. Leaders across the political spectrum wished Siddaramiah a speedy recovery.A hospital bulletin said that CM Yediyurappa is stable and has been responding to treatment. “He is being monitored closely by an expert panel of doctors,” the release added. Yediyurappa also held a meeting through video conference to monitor the availability of ventilators and beds across the state.Karnataka imposed prohibitory orders in Kalburgi, Mangalore and Kodagu, apart from a few other districts ahead of the mega Ayodhya ceremony tomorrow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-in-heart-of-all-congressmen-says-party-leader-ahead-of-ayodhya-event/story-AcUBq63ov9dUXp2KuIJKgM.html
04-08-2020||India||Locust situation grim along Indo-Pak border, some swarms may reach this month: FAO||The current situation remains serious along both sides of the Indo-Pakistan border where locust monsoon breeding is underway by spring-bred swarms, including those returning from northern India, and substantial hatching and band formation are expected in August, the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations (FAO) said on Monday. The UN organisation, in the latest update, said a second generation of summer breeding will start in September. Extensive control operations are in progress in both countries. Some of the swarms that continued east across northern Somalia may still reach India and Pakistan in early August. Amidst the outbreak of locusts, chief minister Ashok Gehlot has demanded Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the locust outbreak should be declared a national disaster. Gehlot, in his letter to the PM, he said the decision to declare it as national disaster will be appropriate in view of the forecast by FAO of possible damage to crops of Kharif-2020 and Rabi 2020-21 in other states; and looking to weak economic condition of states due to Corona epidemic. This will further strengthen the capacity of states to deal with locust outbreaks.Pointing out that locust outbreak is an international problem, the Rajasthan chief minister wrote, “In order to place a check on the origin of new locust groups, they must be stopped at their point of origin. For this, the GoI should coordinate internationally and negotiate with all locust-affected countries, so that appropriate measures can be taken for effective control of locust.” The locust has bred extensively in Africa and the Gulf countries. Due to this, locust groups are continuously entering the states including Rajasthan from across the border, he said. Gehlot apprised that locusts entered the state from April 11 and 32 of 33 districts have been affected by the outbreak. In addition to Rajasthan, locusts have been reported in other states including Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra. Now this problem has become a multi-state problem. Locust outbreaks have been seen on such a large scale in the country after several decades. In such a situation, declaring this problem as a national disaster will be in the interest of all the affected states and the farmers.In 2019-20, around 6.70 lakh hectare area of 12 districts in Rajasthan was affected by locust. With the joint efforts of Locust Warning Organization and the state government the locust attack was curbed but then to the farmers suffered a lost about Rs 1000 crore. In 2020-21 also, locust control has been done in about 3.83 lakh hectare area so far, but according to earlier estimates of FAO, the locust outbreak would increase. In such a situation, the GoI should take appropriate steps on time, Gehlot said in his letter sent on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/locust-situation-grim-along-indo-pak-border-some-swarms-to-reach-this-month-fao/story-qb1JppEHhWGtNbYWQwDOAL.html
04-08-2020||India||Amaravati to remain Andhra capital till Aug 14, HC stays govt order on 3 capitals||The Andhra Pradesh high court on Tuesday stayed the notifications issued by the YSR Congress government on the formation of three capitals for the state till August 14. Acting on a petition filed by Rajadhani Rythu Parirakshana Samithi (Committee of farmers to protect the capital), a three-member division bench of the high court comprising Justice Rakesh Kumar, Justice Sesha Sai and Justice Satyanaryana Murthy granted stay on the implementation of the gazette notifications and asked the state government to file a counter within 10 days. The high court ordered that the state government maintain status quo with regard to Amaravati as the capital city and not to proceed with any moves with regard to the shifting of executive capital from Amaravati to Visakhapatnam. On July 31, the Jagan Mohan Reddy government issued two separate notifications – one on abolition of AP Capital Region Development Authority formed in December 2014 to develop Amaravati as the capital of AP; and the second one on formation of three capitals for the state – executive capital at Visakhapatnam, judicial capital at Kurnool and legislative capital at Amaravati. The notification followed the assent given by Governor Biswabhushan Harichandan earlier in the day for the two bills passed by the state legislature. However, the farmers of Amaravati challenged these notifications in the high court. When the petition came up for hearing on Tuesday, the division bench asked the state government to file a counter affidavit. The state advocate general asked for 10 days’ time for the government to file the counter. When the counsels for petitioners expressed apprehensions that the government might go ahead with the shift of some of the offices to Visakhapatnam during this 10-day period, the high court ordered that status be maintained on the gazette notifications and granted a stay on the implementation of the notifications till August 14. Meanwhile, the farmers of Amaravati continued with their protests over the state government’s move to form the three capitals. The protesters, including women, formed a human chain all along the road leading to the high court and pleaded the judges passing through the road with folded hands. Some of them were carrying national flags and some others were on their knees as the convoy of judges passed by. Some women protestors also offered “aarti” to the high court building before the arrival of the judges, seeking a favourable judgment for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amaravati-to-remain-andhra-capital-till-aug-14-hc-stays-govt-order-on-3-capitals/story-GrM22zNWgQzcROa59V4GDN.html
04-08-2020||India||Cabinet minister Dharmendra Pradhan tweets he is Covid-19 +ve, admitted to hospital||Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan tweeted Tuesday evening that he has tested positive for Covid-19 and has been admitted to hospital. In a tweet he said he underwent a test when he noticed symptoms of Covid-19 and the report came positive following which he has been hospitalized.#COVID19 के लक्षण दिखने पर मैंने टेस्ट करवाया जिसमें मेरी रिपोर्ट पॉज़िटिव आई है। डाक्टरों की सलाह पर मैं अस्पताल में भर्ती हूँ और स्वस्थ हूँ।He is the second member of the Narendra Modi cabinet after Union home minister Amit Shah to test positive for coronavirus.Shah tested positive on Sunday following which he was admitted to Medanta hospital in Gurugram.Two other ministers – Ravi Shankar Prasad and Babul Supriyo - have isolated themselves because they had met Shah last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-minister-dharmendra-pradhan-tweets-he-is-covid-19-ve-admitted-to-hospital/story-eDQVkyRlVNRdzkknPbmprI.html
04-08-2020||India||Government lifts ban on export of all ventilators||The government on Tuesday lifted the export ban on all ventilators to push the outbound shipments of the product.“All ventilators including any artificial respiratory apparatus or oxygen therapy apparatus or any other breathing appliance/device are made free for export,” the directorate general of foreign trade (DGFT) said in a notification.The ban was imposed on March 24 to ensure domestic availability to fight Covid-19 pandemic.On August 1, the group of ministers on Covid-19 has considered and agreed to the proposal of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to allow the export of made-in-India ventilators.An official statement, issued on August 1, has said that this decision came on the heels of India continuing to maintain a progressively declining low rate of case fatality of Covid-19 patients, which means that fewer numbers of active cases are on ventilators.Additionally, there has been substantial growth in the domestic manufacturing capacity of ventilators.Presently, there are more than 20 domestic manufacturers for ventilators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-lifts-ban-on-export-of-all-ventilators/story-8EPi9uDgxXGt2aglVI7pNM.html
04-08-2020||India||Man held for selling Tocilizumab injections in black market||A man has been arrested here for selling Tocilizumab injection, used for treating critically ill coronavirus patients, in black market at three times its printed price, the police said on Tuesday.Azam Nasir Khan (30), a resident of Kashipur in Uttarakhand, was selling the injection for as much as Rs one lakh, said an official of the Mumbai police’s Crime Branch.He was suspected to be part of an inter-state racket, the official added.Tocilizumab is administered when the oxygen level of a Covid-19 patient goes down, he said.Unit 9 of the Crime Branch had received information that some persons were selling `Tocilizumab injection, Actemra 400 mg’ without medical prescription at inflated prices in suburban Bandra, he said.A trap was set by a team of Crime Branch and Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) officials and Khan was nabbed, he said.The police seized 15 injections from his possession, the official said.The owner of a medical store in Delhi had given him the injections, he told the police.A court here remanded Khan in police custody till August 7 and further probe was on, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-held-for-selling-tocilizumab-injections-in-black-market/story-ijdQA9zzZEAwmen9jblelL.html
04-08-2020||India||‘Having friends in Bollywood no crime’: Aaditya Thackeray hits out, rejects rumours in Sushant death case||Maharashtra chief minister’s son and state minister Aaditya Thackeray dismissed rumours linking him to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and called it “dirty politics” born out of “frustration”. Thackeray, in a statement that he tweeted, said that he is not even remotely connected to the case. He added that having friends in Bollywood is not a crime.In the statement, Thackeray added that he is keeping calm despite the “baseless” allegations being levelled against him and his family. Without naming the Bharatiya Janata Party or its leaders, who have alleged that a young minister was at a party a night before Rajput allegedly took his life, said that the BJP has a “stomachache” looking at the “popularity” of the Maharashtra government.“Those who are pricked by the success and popularity of the Maharashtra government have started dirty politics over the death of Sushant Singh Rajput. Unnecessary mud slinging on me and the Thackeray family. This is nothing but dirty politics arisen out of frustration…,” he said in the statement.Also Read: Anupam Kher says Sushant Singh Rajput’s family deserves to know the truthHe added that he will “never do anything” that will hurt the prestige of Maharashtra, Shiv Sena and the Thackeray family.“I am not even remotely connected to the case. I wish to say as the grandson of Hinduruday Samrat Balasaheb Thackeray, that I will never do anything that would hurt the prestige of Maharashtra, Shiv Sena and Thackeray family. The people who are levelling baseless allegations should understand this,” Aditya said in the statement he tweeted on Tuesday evening.Also Read: Rhea Chakraborty left Sushant Singh Rajput when he wanted to start farming, says family’s lawyerThis is the first time that Aaditya has spoken on the raging controversy over Sushant Singh Rajput’s death which has led to several people including high profile politicians accusing the Maharashtra government of aiding in an alleged cover-up of foul play in Sushant’s death.Senior BJP leader and former Shiv Sainik Narayan Rane had earlier today alleged that the Maharashtra government was trying to “save someone” in the probe.Sushant Singh death: PIL in Bombay HC seeks transfer of investigation to SIT or CBIFormer deputy chief minister of Bihar, Sushil Modi, too, had alleged that Uddhav Thackeray was trying to shield the “Bollywood mafia” at the behest of Congress party, a coalition partner in Maharashtra government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/having-friends-in-bollywood-no-crime-aaditya-thackeray-hits-out-rejects-rumours-in-sushant-death-case/story-2fCa7nVMWzbQxZEQmMSFqO.html
04-08-2020||India||PM Modi will unveil plaque to mark laying of foundation stone of Ram temple||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will unveil a plaque to mark the laying of foundation stone and release a commemorative postage stamp on Ram temple on Wednesday, the PMO said Tuesday.“Prior to the function, the Prime Minister will take part in Pooja and Darshan at Hanumangarhi. He will then travel to Shree Ram Janmabhoomi where he will take part in Pooja and Darshan of ‘Bhagwan Shree Ramlala Virajman’. He will then plant a Parijat sapling and subsequently perform bhoomi pujan,” the PMO said in a statement.“Prime Minister will unveil a plaque to mark the laying of the foundation stone and also release a commemorative postage stamp on Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir,” it said.Modi will use a 40-kg silver brick to lay the foundation stone of the Ram temple. Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, chairman of Sri Ram Janambhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, has donated the silver brick. Ayodhya has been decked up for the big day. Vedic rituals which began in the temple town on Monday morning will end just before the bhoomi pujan.On Tuesday, Ayodhya glittered in the lights of diyas that were lit by seers on the banks of river Saryu and by locals outside their houses. Almost all temples in the temple town have been decorated. The entire Ram Janmabhoomi complex has been decorated with saffron flags and marigold flowers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-will-unveil-plaque-to-mark-laying-of-foundation-stone-of-ram-temple/story-SnPy2vIDHwRNIC6CmLerqI.html
04-08-2020||India||Sachin Pilot camp denies BJP leader met them at Haryana resort||The rebel Rajasthan Congress MLAs, led by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, on Tuesday denied that Rajasthan BJP president Satish Poonia had met them in Manesar, a claim made by the special operations group (SOG) of Rajasthan police. Murari Meena, MLA from Dausa, said the news had been spread to defame the MLAs with Sachin Pilot, who are currently staying in a hotel in Manesar. “No one from the BJP either met us or plans to meet us. It is an attempt to defame us,” said Meena in a telephonic conversation from Manesar. HT reported on Tuesday that the Rajasthan police investigation into three cases of sedition and conspiracy to topple Ashok Gehlot government has found that state BJP president Satish Poonia met the Sachin Pilot camp of MLAs twice in July. According to the HT report, Poonia met the Pilot camp MLAs twice between July 18 and July 29. Poonia denied this vehemently. “I have never met Pilot or any other rebel MLA. Police are speaking the government’s language,” he said. The Dausa MLA said they had not decided on attending the Assembly session from August 14. “It is still 10 days away. We will sit together and decide about our future strategy,” Meena said. Meanwhile, the special operations group (SOG) dropped the sedition charges in the three cases related to efforts to topple Gehlot government, and transferred the cases to the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) of the state government.Earlier today, the Congress said it could hold talks with the rebel MLAs of Sachin Pilot camp if they leave the hospitality of Manohar Lal Khattar government in Haryana.Congress national spokesperson Randeep Surjewala maintained that the only condition for talks with the dissident Rajasthan MLAs is that they leave the BJP’s “suraksha chakra (protection)”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sachin-pilot-camp-denies-bjp-leader-met-them-at-haryana-resort/story-MkTyX4vNwzKpM99yEhv1XM.html
04-08-2020||India||Ayodhya glitters on eve of Ram temple bhoomi pujan||A day before the much-awaited foundation laying ceremony of Ram temple in Ayodhya by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, vedic rituals continued on Tuesday with Ramacharya puja at Ram Janmabhoomi here. Ayodhya residents also marked the occasion by celebrating it as Chhoti Diwali’. The entire city glittered in the lights of diyas that were lit by seers on the banks of river Saryu and by locals outside their houses. Almost all temples in the temple town have been decorated. Twenty-one priests started the Ramacharya puja at around 9.30 am. These rituals continued for three hours. They were followed by Purvang anushtan, Sri Ram Shodash Matrika, Vishnu puja and Chaturved parayan. The three-day Vedic rituals, which began on Monday, will end with the Ram temple bhoomi pujan on Wednesday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will perform the bhoomi pujan at around 12.40 pm. Simultaneous vedic rituals began at Hanuman Garhi temple on Tuesday. “Lord Hanuman is considered to be the protector of Ayodhya. So, before the construction of Ram temple begins, we are performing this puja at Hanuman Garhi to seek his (lord Hanuman’s) permission to start construction work of Ram temple,” said Anil Mishra, member of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust. Offerings were also made at Chhoti Devkali and Badi Devkali temples, considered to be clan-deities of lord Ram. Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, chairman of Sri Ram Janambhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, has donated a 40 kg silver brick for the Ram temple bhoomi pujan. Prime Minister Modi will use this brick to lay the foundation stone of the temple. However, the brick will be removed after the ceremony. Several devotees have donated silver bricks to the trust. All of them will be used for the ceremony on Wednesday. “Later, these silver bricks will be encashed and the money will be used for construction of the temple,” said Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, successor-designate to chairman of the trust.Modi is expected to reach Ayodhya at around 11.30 am and will stay there for three hours. Before the PM’s arrival for bhoomi pujan, priests will complete several Vedic rituals, including Maha Ganpati, Ambika pujan, Varun pujan, Shodash matrika, Sapath Grahan matrika, Ayush mantra jaap, Nav Prastar Khand Shila pujan and graha shanti puja. In Ayodhya, Modi will first offer prayer at Hanuman Garhi and thereafter he will go to Ram Janmabhoomi where he will perform the bhoomi pujan at around 12.40pm. For the ceremony, a water-proof pandal has been put up at the venue. A stage has also been set up from where Modi is expected to address the gathering. The guests will be allowed entry to the venue from 10 am and they will have to undergo Covid-19 test before entering the venue. Rapid testing kits will be used which will give results in 15 minutes. District health department will deploy its team for carrying out the tests. Meanwhile, Shankaracharya Jayendra Saraswati of Kamikochi, Tamil Nadu, has sent silver coins to the temple trust. Jayendra Saraswati has sent these coins on behalf of the Ashok Singhal Foundation, an organisation named after Ashok Singhal, late president of the VHP. To mark the occasion, coins will be distributed on Wednesday to seers attending the bhoomi pujan. Meanwhile, about 1.11 lakh ladoos are being prepared at Mani Ram Das Chhavni Peeth for distribution among locals after the bhumi pujan. The temple trust has also placed order for one lakh packets of Bikaneri laddus for distribution after the ceremony. Each packet will have four laddus. The trust will also send laddus to all embassies in New Delhi to mark the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayodhya-glitters-on-eve-of-as-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan/story-E4vUk6IzOSxPTeEaphY7uI.html
04-08-2020||India||Shivraj Singh Chouhan will celebrate Ayodhya event at hospital with lighting of diyas||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has announced his intentions to light up earthen lamps at the Bhopal hospital, where he is undergoing treatment for coronavirus disease, to celebrate the August 5 ground-breaking ceremony for construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. Chouhan has also requested his ministers to celebrate the occasion by lighting earthen lamps on Tuesday and Wednesday.“It’s due to the struggle and sacrifice of the devotees of Lord Ram that Ram Mandir is being constructed. Today and tomorrow I will light earthen lamps at the hospital. You also light earthen lamps and decorate your houses,” Chouhan told his cabinet from his hospital bed during a virtual meet on Tuesday.Later, in a series of tweets, Chouhan recalled the days of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement and credited PM Narendra Modi for the realization of this moment. “We are blessed to see the beginning of the construction of the Ram temple tomorrow. The devotees of Lord Ram struggled for 500 years for this pleasurable moment. Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s iron resolve and sacrifices of lakhs of Ram devotees has made this pious moment possible,” he said.Also Read: Lord Ram belongs to everyone, says Priyanka Gandhi ahead of bhoomi pujanChouhan’s announcement follows an appeal by the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust asking people to decorate houses, chant hymns and light earthen lamps to celebrate the stone laying foundation of the Ayodhya Ram temple.Only 175 invitees will attend the ceremony live in Ayodhya, while everyone else has been requested to celebrate the event at their homes.“CM said that we’re fortunate to witness this. Today from 6-7 pm, everyone will light earthen lamps at their homes. Tomorrow is a historic day. Earthen lamps will be lit today & tomorrow. Houses of ministers, MPs, MLAs will be illuminated,” said Narottam Mishra, a minister in Chouhan government.It’s not just the ruling BJP which is buoyant about the event, former chief minister of Madhya Pradesh and current chief of Congress’ state unit, Kamal Nath has been leading the celebrations with religious ceremonies in the state.On Tuesday, Nath hosted a ‘Hanuman Chalisa’ recital at his residence and announced that 11 silver bricks will be sent for the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. The bricks, Nath said, were bought from contributions made by members of the Congress.Also Read: MP Congress to send silver bricks to be used in construction of Ram temple“We will send 11 silver bricks for the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya on the behalf of citizens of Madhya Pradesh,” the former chief minister said.He also credited late Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi for ordering the unlocking of the Ram Janmabhoomi temple site in 1985.“These are our sentiments... Rajivji had said in 1989 that ‘Ram Rajya’ should come to the country. It’s due to Rajiv Gandhi that the dream of Ram temple is coming true. Had he been alive, he would have been very happy,” Nath said.Meanwhile, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat has arrived in Ayodhya for the event along with several other prominent invitees like yoga guru Baba Ramdev, Swami Avdeshanand have arrived in Ayodhya to attend the foundation laying ceremony.Bhagwat, along with PM Modi, UP CM Yogi Adityanath, UP governor Anandiben Patel and the president of Ram Mandir Trust, Nitya Gopal Das will be present on stage for the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shivraj-singh-chouhan-will-celebrate-ayodhya-event-at-hospital-with-lighting-of-diyas/story-ciATUUoLV0WZ8tnnOu70aP.html
04-08-2020||India||PM Modi condoles death of theatre personality Ebrahim Alkazi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday condoled the death of eminent theatre personality Ebrahim Alkazi, saying he will be remembered for his efforts to make theatre more popular and accessible across India. Alkazi died this afternoon following a heart attack. He was 94. Alkazi produced plays such as Girish Karnad’s “Tughlaq” and Dharamvir Bharati’s “Andha Yug”.“His contributions to the world of art and culture are noteworthy ... Shri Ebrahim Alkazi will be remembered for his efforts to make theatre more popular and accessible across India,” the prime minister tweeted.“Saddened by his demise. My thoughts are with his family and friends. May his soul rest in peace,” Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-condoles-death-of-theatre-personality-ebrahim-alkazi/story-oatnqv6eSYHX17auPxylZP.html
04-08-2020||India||16 from Jammu and Kashmir among successful UPSC candidates||Sixteen candidates from Jammu and Kashmir have cracked the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) civil service exam-2019, the result of which was declared on Tuesday.According to the UPSC’s list, there are 829 successful candidates. IRS officer Pradeep Singh topped the list. Abhiskhek Augustsya of Jammu, who is ranked at 38, is at the top of the list of the successful candidates from Jammu and Kashmir.He is followed by two other Jammu residents - Sunny Gupta (148), Dev Ahuti (177).Parth Gupta (240), Asrar Ahmad Kitchloo (248), Asif Yousuf Tantray (328), Namgyal Angmo (323) Nadia Beigh (350) from Kupwara are also among the successful candidates.Aftab Rasool (412) from Trehgam Kupwara, Sabzar Ahmad Ganie (628) hailing from a remote village of Gheeboom Kokernag, Majid Iqbal Khan (638), a resident of Shangus Anantnag, Stanzin Wangyal (716), Rayees Hussain (747), Mohammed Nawas Sharaf Uddin Sharafuddin (778), and Syed Junaid Adil (822) are the others.Speaking to HT from Shimla, Abhishek Augustya said, “Yes I have also come to know that I have topped in J&K with 38th rank. It was my fifth attempt. I was trying since 2015 and in 2018 I ranked 268th in the merit list. I am already undergoing probation at National Academy of Audit and Accounts at Shimla. But now I will be moving to IAS”. Abhishek’s father is a zoology lecturer in government higher secondary school in Sai close to Indo-Pak border and his mother is a teacher in a private school. His sister is pursuing PG in surgery from GMC Jammu. “Since childhood I had a social bent of mind to do something for the people and dreamt about civil services in school. In college days I met some friends, who were keen on civil services. They further strengthened my resolve. I did my schooling from DAV School in RS Pura and college from NIT Srinagar in computer sciences,” he said. This is the first batch of civil services officers from Jammu and Kashmir since Article 370 was scrapped last year and the state split into two union territories.The examination is conducted annually in three phases -- preliminary, main and interview -- to select candidates for the Indian Administrative Service, Indian Foreign Service, Indian Police Service and Other Central Services.(With inputs from Ravi Krishnan Khajuria in Jammu)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16-from-jammu-and-kashmir-among-successful-upsc-candidates/story-s2gsZiGW4ubKNKcUIW8TRK.html
04-08-2020||India||‘Make sure differences do not escalate into disputes’: China to India on border row||China on Tuesday said the boundary problem with India should be placed in an “proper” position in bilateral ties and the two countries should ensure that differences do not escalate into disputes.The Chinese foreign ministry said Beijing hopes New Delhi will work together with it to safeguard overall interests of the bilateral ties.In a separate comment in the context of New Delhi taking steps cut down on the dependency on Chinese products, the ministry said “artificially” damaging the cooperation in business between the two countries does not serve India’s purpose.Also read: Upset at India’s big review of Confucius institutes tomorrow, China says ‘be fair’The ministry’s spokesperson Wang Wenbin was responding to a question at the regular ministry briefing on Tuesday on Indian external affairs minister, S Jaishankar’s interview August 2 where he said that reaching an equilibrium with Beijing is not going to be easy and that India must stand its ground and make China value India more.Jaishankar had made it amply clear that the situation at the border and Sino-Indian ties could not be separated, indicating that peace and tranquility along the line of actual control (LAC) are mandatory for the bilateral relationship to progress.“We have noted this report. We believe stronger solidarity and cooperation between China and India, (the) two largest developing countries and emerging economies will not only inject impetus into our respective development but also stability and positive energy to world’s peace and prosperity,” Wang said at the regular ministry briefing.“The two should place the boundary issue in an proper position in bilateral relations and make sure differences do not escalate into disputes. I hope India will work with us in the same direction and safeguard over all interests of bilateral relations with concrete actions,” he said.Also read: India-China expand border talks, to revisit patrolling protocol to avoid skirmishesWang was separately asked to comment on New Delhi considering measures to prevent trade partners mainly in southeast Asia from rerouting Chinese goods to India with little added value.Responding to the query, Wang said: “I want to stress that Chinese products to India met the demands of Indian consumers. The cooperation is mutually beneficial. Artificially damaging such cooperation doesn’t serve India’s own interests.”Jaishankar’s interview and China’s reaction come in the backdrop of the worst state of ties between the two neighbours following the June 15 Galwan Valley clash in eastern Ladakh.The June 15 violence was preceded and followed by a tense faceoff between Indian and Chinese border troops at multiple points along the LAC in Ladakh.Following several rounds of diplomatic and military talks between the two countries, New Delhi has made it clear that for the situation to be normalised, the Chinese will have to completely de-escalate and move back troops to their permanent locations.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava acknowledged last week that there has been “some progress” towards disengagement and de-escalation along the LAC though the process is far from complete.On Sunday, the latest round of commander-level talks were held on the Chinese side of the LAC.Beijing has so far revealed no details of the talks except commenting that the disengagement was complete in most places – a claim refuted by New Delhi.Also read: How the cold will alter the India-China power equation next month in Ladakh“On August 2, China and India held the fifth round of talks at the level of military commanders and exchanged views resolving the remaining issues on the border, and on the ground, (and) continuing to push for a de-escalation of the situation,” the Chinese foreign ministry told Hindustan Times in a statement on the Sunday talks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/make-sure-differences-do-not-escalate-into-disputes-china-to-india-on-border-row/story-wiDbDdWpaKzppsFeAbYUiI.html
04-08-2020||India||Mumbai: Two missing after a fishing boat carrying 13 fishermen capsizes||A fishing boat, carrying 13 fisher folks, capsized around 10 nautical miles from Gorai coast on Tuesday. Though 11 fisher folks were rescued by another boat, two persons are still missing. Senior inspector Sanjeev Narkar of Gorai police station said the incident occurred around 2 pm and the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) and Indian Navy authorities have been informed for search and rescue operations of the two missing fishermen. “A rescue boat has been dispatched for search and rescue operations,” said RK Singh, commandant, ICG. A fishing boat, Lucky Star, carrying 13 fisher folks from Gorai, went into the sea for fishing last Saturday. While returning the boat capsized around 10 nautical miles away from the coast on Tuesday afternoon. Another fishing boat, God King, from Uttan rescued the 11 fisher folks, Narkar said. “Perhaps, the boat capsized because of the choppy waters. It could be a technical snag as well. We will ascertain the cause after we record the rescued fisher folks’ statement,” Narkar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-two-missing-after-a-fishing-boat-carrying-13-fishermen-capsizes/story-sWEKXkKNgodxhsEBsuYreO.html
04-08-2020||India||Covid-19 spread reported in new areas but 82% of total cases from 10 states/UTs: Health ministry||The coronavirus infection has spread to new areas in the country, but 82 per cent of the total cases are still limited to 10 states and Union Territories, the health ministry said on Tuesday.Addressing a press briefing, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said 50 districts account for 66 per cent of the total caseload and the Covid-19 case fatality rate has progressively declined to 2.10 per cent, the lowest since the first lockdown was imposed on March 25.“Coronavirus infection has spread to newer areas but 82 per cent of the total cases are still limited to 10 states and UTs in the country, whereas 50 districts today account for 66 per cent of the Covid-19 caseload in the country,” he said.Giving a break-up of the mortality rate according to gender, the official said about 68 per cent of Covid-19 deaths were reported among male patients and 32 per cent among female patients in India.In terms of age, he said 50 per cent of such deaths took place in the age group of 60 years and above.“About 37 per cent of Covid-19 deaths in India took place in the age group of 45 to 60 years, while 11 per cent of deaths were recorded in the age group of 26 to 44 years,” he told reporters.India’s Covid-19 fatality rate has progressively declined to 2.10 per cent, the lowest since the first lockdown, Bhushan said.He noted that the total number of recovered cases at 12.30 lakh is two times the number of active Covid-19 cases.“A total of 28 states and UTs are conducting more than 140 Covid-19 tests per day per million population. India is conducting 479 tests per day per million population for the detection of the disease,” Bhushan said.He said 28 states and UTs have a Covid-19 positivity rate of less than 10 per cent, while India’s positivity rate as on date is 8.89 per cent.ICMR Director General Professor Balram Bhargava said rapid antigen tests account for 25 to 30 per cent of the total tests conducted so far for the detection of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-spread-reported-in-new-areas-but-82-of-total-cases-from-10-states-uts-health-ministry/story-K3h4rDFleZOsFwV2theIOJ.html
04-08-2020||India||Frontier Gandhi’s great grandson seeks HC intervention to be appointed guardian of his aunt in India||Mashal Khan, the great-grandson of Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan, who was also known as the Frontier Gandhi, a Pakistani national and a freedom fighter, has petitioned the Bombay high court (HC) seeking relief to be appointed as the guardian of Zarin Ghani-Walsh, his grand-aunt, a resident of Breach Candy in Mumbai.He sought her guardianship, as she is mentally and physically unfit – she has been suffering from Alzheimer’s disease since 2013 -- to take necessary and appropriate decisions in her own interests. The court observed that though the health reports sufficed that Ghani-Walsh was in dire need of guardianship, yet it could not decide on the matter until the Centre would take a call on the issue. The petition, filed by advocate Vaishali Dholakia, has said that Mashal (40) is a resident of Charsadda in Pakistan’s Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KPK) province. Ghani-Walsh is the grand-daughter of Frontier Gandhi. The petition stated that Ghani-Walsh had married a Canadian citizen, Stanley Arnold Walsh, in 1975 and had become a Canadian national. However, in 1983 she and her husband moved back to India to take care of her uncle PA Narielwalla and continued to live here since. Her husband had died intestate – without leaving behind a Will – in 2013. Her only surviving relatives are her brothers’ three sons, including her grand-nephew Mashal. The petition also stated that she has been suffering from Alzheimer’s disease since 2013, her medical report showed. The petition has stated that after the demise of her husband, Ghani-Walsh appointed Mashal as the executor of her Will in 2013, and as per medical reports, she was not able to sign in a consistent pattern, and as a result, he should be appointed as guardian of her person and property. On Monday, Mashal’s counsel Mayur Khandeparkar informed the two-member HC division bench, comprising Justices SC Gupte and Abhay Ahuja, that though there is a statutory provision for the care of a mentally disabled person, there is no legal provision under the Guardians and Wards Act, 1890, or Mental Healthcare Act, 2017, for the appointment of a guardian for a person, who is completely dependent, physically, and mentally unfit to make decisions. Khandeparkar sought directions that the court declares and accepts Mashal as the guardian of Ghani-Walsh, as he had been regularly coming to India since 2013, and helping her with her property and bank work. Khandeparkar also prayed that the court might issue necessary permissions for him to operate and execute documents on Ghani-Walsh’s behalf and also to take her back to Pakistan with him in a bid to allow her to spend her last days there and also be laid to rest near her loved ones. Public prosecutor, Poornima Kantharia, submitted that the state did not dispute her medical reports. However, she drew the court’s attention to the National Trust Act, 1999, as it provided for a local committee to decide on the guardianship issue. The bench heard the submissions and observed that it could not decide on the petition without hearing the Centre’s response and adjourned the matter for its next hearing on August 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/frontier-gandhi-s-great-grandson-seeks-hc-intervention-to-be-appointed-guardian-of-his-aunt-in-india/story-mD0QyPNrK9lufk7Z8OvVnI.html
04-08-2020||India||2 more kidnapped Indian engineers freed in Afghanistan, 6 released so far||India said on Tuesday two more of the seven Indian engineers kidnapped in Afghanistan in May 2018 had been freed and had returned to the country, taking the number of men released so far to six. The external affairs ministry said in a brief statement the two Indian nationals were “released from captivity in Afghanistan” on July 31 and “returned to India today [Tuesday]”. The statement confirmed the two men were part of the group of seven Indians abducted more than two years ago, but didn’t give details of the circumstances of their release. “Six Indian nationals have now been released so far from captivity,” the statement said. “We thank the government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan for their constant and unwavering support in securing the release of the Indians,” the statement added. The seven men were working on power projects run by the Afghan government when they were abducted in northern Baghlan province. One of them was freed in March 2019 while three more were released last October. There were no immediate details on the status of the lone member of the group who remained unaccounted for. It was widely believed the engineers – who worked for KEC International Limited, one of the world’s largest companies engaged in building and maintaining power transmission networks – were kidnapped by the Taliban. The militant group, however, hasn’t so far said anything on this issue. Earlier this year, a report from the UN Security Council’s analytical support and sanctions monitoring team had acknowledged that three of the engineers were freed last October by the Taliban in exchange for 11 members of the militant group,. The report had said that “11 Taliban were released from Bagram Airfield detention facility in exchange for three Indian engineers who had been kidnapped in Afghanistan”. The Taliban members who were released “included former shadow governors Sheikh Abdul Rahim…and Mawlawi Rashid Baluch”. Rahim is believed to have been appointed by the Haqqani Network, which is close to the Pakistani security establishment. Baluch was sanctioned in 2015 by the US treasury department, which emphasised his role in “the Taliban and Al-Qaida nexus”, the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-more-kidnapped-indian-engineers-freed-in-afghanistan-6-released-so-far/story-QaHF8F5Tf2BjarKLWVy21K.html
04-08-2020||India||PM Narendra Modi congratulates those who cleared civil services, also has a message for those who didn’t||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has congratulated all those who successfully cleared the prestigious civil services examination, results for which were declared on Tuesday. The Prime Minister said that an “exciting and satisfying career of public service” awaited the successful candidates.“Congratulations to all the bright youngsters who have successfully cleared the Civil Services Examination, 2019! An exciting and satisfying career of public service awaits you. My best wishes!,” PM Modi tweeted.Prime Minister also offered encouragement to those who couldn’t clear the examination and said life was full of opportunities while wishing them well for their future endeavours.“For those youngsters who did not get the desired result in the Civil Services Examination, 2019, I would like to tell them- life is full of several opportunities. Each and every one of you is hardworking and diligent. Best wishes for all your future endeavours,” his second tweet said.A total of 829 candidates have qualified in the civil services, including the IAS, the IPS and the IFS.Also Read: UPSC Civil Services Final Result 2019 Live Updates: AIR- 1 holder Pradeep Singh is from Sonepat, HaryanaThe results, declared by the Union Public Service Commission on Tuesday, saw three serving civil servants top the examinations. The topper Pradeep Singh is from the Indian Revenue Service (IRS), while Jatin Kishore is a 2018 batch officer of the Indian Economic Service (IES) and Pratibha Verma is an Indian Revenue Service (Income Tax) officer like Singh.Pradeep Singh is a resident of Haryana, while Kishore hails from Delhi and Verma from Uttar Pradesh.A total of 829 candidates have been recommended for Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Foreign Service (IFS) and Indian Police Service (IPS), among other civil services, the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) said in a statement, announcing the results of the civil services examination 2019.Of the total qualified candidates, 304 are from General category, 78 from Economically Weaker Section (EWS), 251 from Other Backward Classes (OBC), 129 from Scheduled Castes (SC) and 67 from Scheduled Tribes (ST) category, according to the UPSC.Also Read: UPSC Civil Services Exam 2019 Result: Pradeep Singh tops exam, check toppers listA total of 182 other candidates have been put in the reserve list, it said.The civil services examination is conducted annually in three phases -- preliminary, main and interview -- to select candidates for the country’s premier civil services. Lakhs of people appear for the prestigious examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-congratulates-those-who-cleared-civil-services-also-has-a-message-for-those-who-didn-t/story-6D7Ix2rt3bdtPuMJ1F0fdM.html
04-08-2020||India||Women officers asked to apply for PC by August 31||The army on Tuesday set August 31 as the deadline for short-service commissioned (SSC) women officers to submit their applications for permanent commission (PC), days after the government issued a formal order granting them PC following a Supreme Court verdict. “Detailed administrative instructions have been issued to all affected women officers giving out guidelines for submission of applications for consideration by a selection board,” an army spokesperson said. He said the Army headquarters was in the process of convening a special selection board for screening women officers for PC. “Specimen formats and detailed checklists have been included in the administrative instructions in order to facilitate correct documentation,” he added. The government’s July 23 order specified grant of PC to women officers in 10 streams --- Army Air Defence (AAD), Signals, Engineers, Army Aviation, Electronics and Mechanical Engineers (EME), Army Service Corps (ASC), Army Ordnance Corps (AOC), and Intelligence Corps in addition to the existing streams of Judge and Advocate General (JAG) and Army Educational Corps (AEC). The selection board will be held after the receipt and verification of applications. The Supreme Court in February ruled that women should be considered for command roles and that all women officers are entitled to PC. It asked the army to give them PC within three months in a major boost to gender parity. The Centre got a one-month extension on July 7 to implement the Supreme Court’s verdict after it moved an application before the apex court seeking the extension of the deadline by another six months citing the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown imposed to check its spread from March 25. The Supreme Court’s judgment was hailed for creating a new equality paradigm in the armed forces. It upheld a 2010 Delhi high court verdict. The Supreme Court ruled that women officers, who joined the Indian Army through SSC, are entitled to permanent commission even if they have more than 14 years of service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/women-officers-asked-to-apply-for-pc-by-august-31/story-0WENazJ3JVX75csLN4WrxK.html
04-08-2020||India||As Rajasthan cabinet works from hotel, politics of transfers goes on unabated||Bina Mahawar, a 2011 batch Rajasthan Administrative Service officer, was posted as additional district magistrate of Bharatpur on August 2 in the recent round of reshuffle of junior bureaucracy in the state, almost a year after she was shunted out of the district after a verbal duel with the then tourism minister and now rebel Congress MLA Vishvendra Singh during an official meeting. Mahawar, who was district supply officer of Bharatpur Rural, was shunted to the Board of Revenue as deputy registrar after the showdown in July 2019. Singh is among the rebel Congress legislators backing ousted deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, and political experts see Mahawar’s posting in Bharatpur again as a snub to him. They said while the government posted her back in the district of her choice, another RAS officer, Praveen Kumar, who had been private secretary to Singh, is yet to get a posting. In another politically significant posting, special assistant to former deputy chief minister, Aakash Tomar, was posted as additional commissioner of enforcement in the transport department on Sunday. These are among the few officers transferred in the large-scale reshuffle of the state bureaucracy. According to orders issued by the state government, 379 officers have been transferred since the Rajya Sabha elections on June 19 when chief minister Ashok Gehlot had claimed for the first time that there was an attempt to topple his government by horse trading. The list included 110 IAS, 66 IPS and 144 RAS officers, 128 of whom were transferred last week, apparently on requests of MLAs loyal to Gehlot. Experts said transfer of junior bureaucracy, especially the RAS and RPS officer, has political meanings. “These transfers are mostly done on request of legislators. The MLAs want officers of their choice in their constituencies. This is a normal practice,” said BJP leader and former minister Rohitash Sharma. However, in the current political turmoil, Congress legislators, camping in a hotel in Jaisalmer, are having a field day as Gehlot is accepting all their requests for posting of officers, he added. This is borne out by the fact that two major RAS transfers were carried out on July 31 and August 2. Political expert Narayan Bareth said in principle, it is the duty of the chief minister to consider requests of his legislators because they choose him to be their leader. “Ashok Gehlot is known for conceding to requests of legislators. Sometimes, it also goes against him but that’s the way he is. This time, maybe after the formation of the government he was busy striking political balance and couldn’t focus more on the requests for posting of officers,” he said. Bareth said that at this time when there’s some danger to his government because of rebellion within the party, the CM may be more magnanimous in accepting requests of his MLAs. Congress spokesperson Archana Sharma said transfer and posting of officers was a routine work of governance and it should not be linked to the political situation in the state. But she conceded that the Congress government valued requests of its legislators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-rajasthan-cabinet-works-from-hotel-politics-of-transfers-goes-on-unabated/story-y50ODjKz1Ft6Wpz8XjeprJ.html
04-08-2020||India||Jagan Reddy govt grants Rs 15,000 for funeral expenses of Covid-19 victims||The Jagan Reddy government on Tuesday announced a financial assistance of Rs 15,000 for the last rites of those who die of coronavirus. It also decided to grant Rs 5,000 to plasma donors who help others get better. When the plasma is administered to a Covid-19 patient, it boosts their immunity to fight against the infection.An order to this effect was issued by special chief secretary (medical and health) KS Jawahar Reddy. According to the order, all the district collectors have been authorised to sanction Rs 15,000 towards funeral expenses of each Covid-19 victim.“This amount will be paid to the kin of the deceased for conducting the last rites in a dignified and decent manner,” Reddy said.The order comes in the wake of reports that the bodies of the Covid-19 victims were being carried in municipal vans, earth movers and even autorickshaws to the graveyards for burial and cremation without any dignity and respect.A payment of Rs 5,000 will be made to each plasma donor who voluntarily decides to donate plasma for the Covid-19 patients in various hospitals.“This amount will be paid to the plasma donor towards nutritional supplement charges, as they need good food after donating their plasma,” the special chief secretary said.The government directed the commissioner of health and family welfare Katamaneni Bhaskar to release an amount of Rs 12 crore to the respective district collectors, from budgetary provisions under the scheme to combat Covid-19.A CMO spokesman said the chief minister had instructed the officials to strictly monitor four aspects – medicines, treatment, food and hygiene in all the 138 Covid-19 designated hospitals in the state. He directed the officials to create awareness on Covid and run campaigns through hoardings, posters, TVs and other avenues to remove stigma. He also directed the officials to monitor the news reports being published on Covid-19 and help the genuine cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jagan-reddy-govt-grants-rs-15-000-for-funeral-expenses-of-covid-19-victims/story-IKlj8wywChV8zYz3D0U2zN.html
04-08-2020||India||Odisha’s Covid-19 caseload may increase by 50,000 in August: Official||As Covid-19 cases continue to rise in Odisha with over 1,000 new cases being reported daily since July 21, the state’s caseload may increase by 50,000 in August, a senior official said. However, the director of a prominent research laboratory said, considering the rising number of positive cases now, the pandemic will be stable in Odisha by the last week of August after reaching its peak. With 29 fatalities in the first three days of August, the Covid-19 death toll in the coastal state has mounted to 216 while the infection tally is 37,681.“At this stage of the pandemic, numbers will rise. We may add another 50K cases in August with around another 200 deaths,” Prof Jayant Panda, technical advisor to the Health and Family Welfare department, said in a tweet. However, people were asked “not to get worried” as more than 23,000 patients had recovered from the viral infection in the state till now, the official said.The projection on fresh cases and fatalities in August was made on the basis of the prevailing trend.The official data released by the health and family welfare department said that the state has been reporting more than 1,000 new cases every day since July 21.“If the present trend continues, one should not be surprised if about 50,000 more cases are added in the month of August,” the official said. Ten Covid-19 deaths had been reported on August 1 and August 2 respectively and nine patients died of novel coronavirus on August 3. On an average, five persons had succumbed to Covid-19 in July, he said.“Lets not get worried... More than 23,000 patients have already recovered. Lets try to save people from Covid- 19,” he said. However, Dr Ajay Parida, the Director of Institute of Life Sciences (ILS), told reporters, “It cannot be said right now as to what would be the total number of positive cases in August as the virus has different strains.” The ILS is a research laboratory under the Department of Biotechnology, Government of India, and plays an important role in Covid-19 policy making in Odisha.In Odisha, most of the Covid-19 deaths are linked to pre-existing ailments or comorbidities, Dr Parida said. “Death of symptomatic patients with no comorbidity can be curbed if they are diagnosed and treated early,” the ILS director said.Meanwhile, Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Health and Family Welfare, P K Mohapatra, said that the state government is improving infrastructure for Covid-19 management in view of the rise in the infection tally.As many as 200 more ICU beds will be added to the existing number of 500 ICU beds in the state, he said.Most of the ICU beds will be in facilities in Bhubaneswar as it receives patients from across the state.Patients from districts having a high load of coronavirus cases may be shifted to districts with less caseloads, he said.Apart from having 35 dedicated hospitals across the state, the state government has developed several COVID Care Centres(CCC), COVID Care Homes (CCH) and Temporary Medical Camps in clusters for treatment of COVID-19 patients, Mohapatra said.While critical cases are being admitted to COVID hospitals, moderate cases are kept in CCCs and mild cases in CCHs. Several PSUs and residential welfare units have been encouraged to set up CCCs with technical assistance from the states health department, the senior official said.At present, 6,760 CCHs are operational in 6,798 gram panchayats, 1,482 cluster level TMCs have been et up with 71,754 beds and 14,094 persons are now in hospital isolation, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-s-covid-19-caseload-may-increase-by-50-000-in-august-official/story-ufMQ5OEcPlt8YpNtjwQjVI.html
04-08-2020||India||MP Congress to send silver bricks to be used in construction of Ram temple||Madhya Pradesh (MP) Congress unit would send 11 silver bricks to Ayodhya to be used in the construction of Ram temple, state party president and former chief minister Kamal Nath said on Tuesday. Kamal Nath, who along with several other party leaders and workers, had recited Hanuman Chalisa at his residence in Bhopal on Monday, as part of the party’s statewide programme for the progress and prosperity of MP, made the announcement during a freewheeling interaction with media persons a day ahead of the bhoomi pujan of the Ram temple in Ayodhya to be presided over by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He welcomed the construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya, but gave its credit to Congress leader and former PM late Rajiv Gandhi. “We welcome the construction of Ram temple. Rajiv Gandhiji made a beginning on this in 1985 and he was instrumental behind laying of the foundation stone for the temple construction in 1989. Had Rajivji been among us, he would have been attended Wednesday’s ceremony,” the veteran Congress leader said. “We are sending 11 silver bricks on behalf of the people of MP for construction of the temple,” he added. However, he didn’t give any further details as to when the bricks will be sent; who will carry them and if it will be donated by him only. He also took the opportunity to attack the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “Whenever we do something BJP has a stomach ache. Do they have a patent, contract, or agency on religion?” He said, “I installed a huge idol of Lord Hanuman at Chhindwara. During 15 months of my government, gaushalas were constructed across the state. Hurdles in the way to Ram van gaman path were removed. There were development plans for Mahakal and Omkareshwar temples. But we don’t use religion for politics and don’t make it an event. We are religious in our thoughts, but we don’t mix religion and politics.” State BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal rebutted Kamal Nath’s assertions. “The Congress’s state president must make his stand clear on his party’s government’s affidavit in the Supreme Court in 2007 through which it had denied the existence of Lord Ram. But, now, the Congress wants to take credit for the same. Another Congress leader said there should be a Ram temple, but is raising a question on the timing of the foundation stone-laying programme. It’s a double standard of the Congress leaders. No wonder, the voters have rejected the party across the nation,” Agarwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-congress-to-send-silver-bricks-to-be-used-in-construction-of-ram-temple/story-kIFHU2dZ1sYk0rE0dZrfkK.html
04-08-2020||India||‘Sushant was murdered, Maha govt saving someone’: Narayan Rane||Senior BJP leader in Maharashtra Narayan Rane has waded into Sushant Singh Rajput death case by alleging that the budding actor was murdered and did not die by suicide as was initially suggested by Mumbai police. Rane’s claim comes close on the heels of Bihar government recommending a CBI probe into a case of abetment of suicide against Rajput’s live in partner Rhea Chakarborty and her family members.Maharashtra government has vehemently opposed handing over the probe to the Central Bureau of Investigation claiming the Mumbai police was fully capable of investigations. However, it has been accused of shielding powerful Bollywood interests by Sushant’s family and Bihar politicians including deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi.Rane on Tuesday toed a similar line and accused the Maharashtra government of trying to save someone.“He was murdered. The Maharashtra government is trying to save someone. It is not paying attention to the case,” Narayan Rane was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also Read: Police buying time to ensure evidence is destroyed’: LawyerParties cutting across the political divide in Bihar have demanded CBI investigation in the case expressing their lack of confidence in Mumbai police, which has also been accused of inaction and waylaying the probe by Sushant Singh’s family in Patna.Bihar chief minister and JDU chief Nitish Kumar had earlier today recommended a CBI probe on the request of Sushant Singh’s father and the growing political consensus on the issue.Also Read: Sushant Singh’s death case: Bihar govt recommends CBI probeHis deputy, Sushil Kumar Modi of the BJP had alleged a couple of days ago that Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray was under pressure from coalition partner Congress to protect the “Bollywood mafia” responsible for Sushant’s death.Sushant Singh Rajput was found dead in his Mumbai flat on June 14 and soon after his death, allegations surfaced that he was a victim of an alleged culture of nepotism in the industry that shuts out outsiders. Mumbai police had initially said that Sushant had died by suicide but later started a preliminary investigation that continued for days without registering of even an FIR.Sushant’s family then lodged an FIR in Patna alleging he was driven to death by his former live-in partner Rhea Chakarborty and few of her family members. They also alleged financial irregularities apart from wrongful confinement and mental harassment of the late actor.A team of Bihar police probing the case in Mumbai complained of non-cooperation by the local police as the probe snowballed into a faceoff between two states. The strife escalated after a senior Bihar police official was asked to quarantine himself after he landed in Mumbai for investigations.Following the recommendation to transfer the probe to CBI, Maharashtra minister and NCP Leader Nawab Malik has accused Bihar CM Nitish Kumar of diverting attention from his government’s alleged failures in handling the Coved crisis. Questions have also been raised if the Bihar government has the legal authority to recommend a CBI probe in an incident that took place in Maharashtra. The development came a day before the Supreme Court is slated to hear a petition by Rhea Chakraborty, who has sought transfer of the FIR registered in Patna to Mumbai.A public interest litigation filed in the Bombay High Court seeking transfer of Rajput’s death case to the CBI or a special investigation team (SIT) is also likely to be heard tomorrow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-was-murdered-maha-govt-saving-someone-narayan-rane/story-MY10szxN6OHT7jQkPdwWZK.html
04-08-2020||India||India’s Covid-19 testing rate lower than other nations, says WHO Chief Scientist||Noting that lockdown was a temporary measure to contain the spread of coronavirus, a senior official of the World Health Organisation on Tuesday said India has a low testing rate when compared to some of the countries that are successfully trying to curb it. The Chief Scientist of WHO, Soumya Swaminathan, in an interactive session through video conference said,as of now about 28 vaccine candidates for Covid-19 are under clinical trial, of which five are entering Phase-II and over 150 candidates are in pre-clinical trials across the globe. “India as a whole, the testing rates are much lower compared to some of the countries, who have done well like Germany, Taiwan, South Korea, Japan. Even the United States is testing a huge number of people. So we need to have some benchmark and every public health department needs to have benchmarks on what is the rate of testing per lakh or per million, what is the test positivity rate,” she said. Without adequate number of tests, fighting the virus is like “fighting fire blindfolded,” she pointed out. According to Swaminathan, the number of tests being conducted is not adequate if the Covid-19 test positivity rate is above five per cent. Governments need to constantly monitor the availability of beds, quarantine facilities, ICUs and oxygen supplies in district hospitals. “So there is a set of 8 to 10 indicators that the government needs to keep a close watch on. And you can ramp up or ramp down based on what you are seeing on the ground,” she said. Observing that the scientists’ community was still studying the body’s immune response to coronavirus and the next 12 months were crucial to put in place the public health and social measures, she said the virus has spread to every country in the world and “established community transmission”. “We know that lockdowns are temporary measures or a temporary measure which reduces the spread because it prevents people from getting closer together and the idea of the lockdown is to buy time for the government to put in place the system needed to tackle the virus,” the WHO official said. On the ongoing vaccine trials, she said the WHO has issued guidelines on it and if the efficacy rate of the vaccine is 70 percent, then it is considered to be a good one. On the COVAX facility, a mechanism designed to guarantee rapid, fair and equitable access to COVID-19 vaccines worldwide, Swaminathan said by the end of 2021 it is aimed to deliver two billion doses of safe, effective vaccines that have passed regulatory approval and/or WHO prequalification. All the 194 member countries of the WHO need to come together and take a decision on the way they want to proceed for the equitable and fair distribution of vaccine (once successfully comes out) and other products that are being developed for Covid-19, she opined. Krishna Ella, Chairman and Managing Director of Bharat Biotech, which is into developing Covaxin, a vaccine candidate for Covid-19,said the Centre needs to decetralise some of the regulating authorities such as Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO for faster approvals. Telangana Minister for IT and Industries KT Rama Rao acted as a moderator for the session titled The Vaccine Race- Balancing Science and Urgency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-covid-19-testing-rate-lower-than-other-nations-says-who-chief-scientist/story-UG4hVS3GsDAU4ldL36MbFJ.html
04-08-2020||India||NIA team may visit UAE as agency widens Kerala gold smuggling probe||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) probing the sensational Kerala gold smuggling case has sought the Centre’s nod to send a team to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) as part of the investigation, an official familiar with the probe said Tuesday.The official said the trip may be cleared by the Union Government in a couple of days. He also said two more persons, Mohammad Shafeeq and E Sharfuddin, were arrested from north Kerala for facilitating the distribution of smuggled gold. A total of 12 people have been arrested so far in the case.The gold smuggling racket came to light on July 5 after 30 kg of the yellow metal that was sent on an air consignment to the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram was seized at the airport by the Customs. P Sarith, who came to receive the consignment, was arrested by the Customs immediately and two other accused Swapna Suresh and Sandip Nair were arrested from their hideout in Bengaluru five days later. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s secretary M Sivasankar, a senior IAS officer, was later suspended after his alleged links with Suresh surfaced. The Customs department, which is part of the probe headed by the NIA, has decided to question Sivasankar again because there were many discrepancies in his earlier statements, said a senior official. He has already been questioned by the Customs and the NIA separately. There are also reports that a senior politician will also be questioned for helping some members of the smuggling racket. When two lockers of Swapna Suresh were opened last week, investigators reportedly found Rs one crore cash and two kg gold. These lockers were in the joint name of Suresh and a chartered accountant. The latter told the investigators that he was allegedly asked by Sivasankar to help Suresh to open lockers three years ago.Suresh reportedly gave a detailed statement to the NIA containing vital information about all financial dealings and persons involved in the smuggling, said the official. He said more people will be arrested in a couple of days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-team-may-visit-uae-as-agency-widens-kerala-gold-smuggling-probe/story-WncLNIDWqJAtLmWwelaUEM.html
04-08-2020||India||Army begins process of granting permanent commission to women officers, application invited by Aug 31||The Indian Army on Tuesday began the process of granting permanent commission to women officers, about two weeks after the government issued a formal sanction for it.“Consequent to the receipt of formal Government Sanction Letter for grant of Permanent Commission (PC) to women officers in Indian Army, the Army HQ is in process of convening a Special Number 5 Selection Board for screening women officers for grant of PC,” news agency ANI quoted an army spokesperson as saying.As part of the process, the army has issued detailed administrative instructions to all affected women officers giving out guidelines for submission of applications for consideration of the board. Consequent to the receipt of formal Govt Sanction Letter for grant of Permanent Commission (PC) to women officers in Indian Army, the Army HQ is in process of convening a Special Number 5 Selection Board for screening women officers for grant of PC: Indian Army spokespersonWomen officers who joined Army through Women Special Entry Scheme and Short Service Commission Women are eligible for permanent commission. These candidates have been asked to submit their application forms, option certificate and other documents to Army Headquarters by August 31, 2020, the spokesperson added.In a landmark judgement in February this year, the Supreme Court had ruled that women should be considered for command roles and were entitled to permanent commission. The apex court asked the government to give them PC within three months.The Centre had then filed an application in July before the SC seeking extension of the deadline by another six months citing the Covid-19 pandemic. But it was given a one-month extension to implement the order.The defence ministry then issued a formal sanction letter on July 23, thus paving the way for “empowering women officers to shoulder larger roles in the organisation”.A statement had said “the army is committed to providing equal opportunities to all personnel including women officers to serve the country.”The defence ministry order specified grant of Permanent Commission to Short Service Commissioned (SSC) women officers in all the ten streams of the Indian Army including Army Air Defence (AAD), Signals, Engineers, Army Aviation, Electronics and Mechanical Engineers (EME), Army Service Corps (ASC), Army Ordnance Corps (AOC), and Intelligence Corps in addition to the existing streams of Judge and Advocate General (JAG) and Army Educational Corps (AEC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-begins-process-of-granting-permanent-commission-to-women-officers/story-uFf2gOJLJgq4pOrvNf7lpJ.html
04-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: Kolkata airport operations to be suspended for 7 days in August and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Kolkata airport operations will be suspended for 7 days in August due to Bengal lockdownKolkata airport has announced fresh dates in August when it will suspend operations due to the state of West Bengal going into a complete lockdown mode to break the chain of coronavirus infection, according to an official tweet by the airport authority on Tuesday. Read moreTests show man is Covid-19 +ve, he runs away from hospital; FIR filedThe police have filed an FIR against a Covid-19 positive man who ran away from a hospital in Udham Singh Nagar (US Nagar) district of Uttarakhand, said officials, adding that the search team has been told to take preventive measures while bringing him back. Read moreMaruti Vitara Brezza based Toyota Urban Cruiser compact SUV officially announcedToyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) on Tuesday announced the much-awaited entry into the compact SUV segment in India with the new Urban Cruiser SUV. As reported by HT Auto in the past, the Urban Cruiser will be launched during the upcoming festive season. Read moreNeeraj Kabi says instead of arguing about nepotism ‘raise your talent’: ‘There is no way that you will be eliminated’Neeraj Kabi, currently in spotlight for his latest web show Avrodh – The Siege Within, is the only actor to have featured in two of the biggest hit Indian shows on the OTT platforms – Sacred Games and Paatal Lok. After playing a corrupt cop in Sacred Games and a journalist in Paatal Lok, the actor has now returned as a national security advisor in Avrodh, which is based on the Uri surgical strikes. Read more‘He’s shown promise and will get better with time’: Ashish Nehra backs India openerIndia’s Test tour of New Zealand didn’t turn out quite the way Virat Kohli expected it to but there were certain individual performances the Indian team could be satisfied with. Ishant Sharma picked up a five-wicket haul in the first match in Wellington, followed by Prithvi Shaw, Cheteshwar Pujara and Hanuma Vihari peeling off half-centuries in Christchurch. Read moreNetizens left bamboozled after remains of an unidentified 15-foot-long creature wash up on a British beachIs it an elephant? Is it a whale? Is it a monster? These seem to be some of the questions crowding netizens’ minds after seeing these pictures of a creature’s remains washed up on a beach. Read moreSustainable fashion: How Cactus Leather is becoming a leather alternativeBeing mindful of the environment has never before been more significant, considering the year we are having. From the Australian bushfires to the all-consuming coronavirus pandemic, we should know by now that Nature is not to be trifled with and we should all do our part when it comes to contributing to its preservation. Read moreSony WF-1000XM3 earbuds review: This flagship is not for everyoneIt’s raining earbuds and we really mean it. Quite recently we saw some brands flocking the sub- ₹10,000 and ₹5,000 TWS earbuds segment in a bid to bring the best of ‘affordability’ and ‘value’. However, not all of them have the same audience. Not all of them are in a race to bring the most affordable earbuds. Read more‘Every country but China backed India’s stand on Kashmir’: Indian envoy to UN India’s permanent representative to the United Nations TS Tirumurti has called out Pakistan’s bluff on the Kashmir issue. He said that contrary to claims made by Pakistan, the issue has not been discussed at the United Nations since 1965. Trimurti added that recently a closed door meeting was held but that was nothing official and there was no outcome either. He further added that all countries, except China, have backed India’s stand that it is a bilateral issue and there is no need for intervention by any organisation. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-kolkata-airport-operations-to-be-suspended-for-7-days-in-august-and-all-the-latest-news/story-i5AOVnJEWX17oG6GkrlxoM.html
04-08-2020||India||Kashmir and Article 370: A look at the cases in Supreme Court and where do they stand||August 5 marks the first anniversary of the scrapping of Article 370 of the Constitution, which conferred special status on Jammu and Kashmir. The move led to numerous petitions in the Supreme Court. Here is a look at where those cases stand. Challenge to abrogation of Article 370 A total of 23 petitions challenging the central government’s decision to abrogate Article 370 of the Constitution, thereby revoking Kashmir’s special status, are pending in the Supreme Court. These petitions were heard by a Constitution bench led by justice NV Ramana last December and in January. Some parties to the case requested the case should be referred to a larger bench of seven or more judges. This, they argued, was because two earlier Supreme Court judgments – Prem Nath Kaul (1959) and Sampat Prakash (1968) – are at loggerheads on the scope and intent of Article 370, and whether the provision was intended to be temporary, transitory or permanent. Since both judgments were delivered by benches of five judges, the parties asked the court to refer the matter to a larger bench. The Central government and the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir opposed the reference and said there was no conflict between the two judgments. They maintained Article 370 was temporary. The Constitution bench heard the parties with regard to the reference and delivered its verdict on this limited aspect on March 2. It declined to refer the matter to a larger bench, saying there was no conflict between the judgments in Prem Nath Kaul and Sampat Prakash. The case has not been heard after that. Petitions against lockdown The scrapping of Article 370 was accompanied by a total shutdown of Kashmir to stifle protests which were anticipated. Telephone lines, mobile communication and internet services were stopped and restrictions were imposed on media and transport. A slew of petitions were filed in the Supreme Court challenging these restrictions, which petitioners argued were violated the fundamental right to speech and expression and the right to move freely. The petitioners included Kashmir Times editor Anuradha Bhasin and Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad. A three-judge bench of the Supreme Court heard the case and ruled on January 10 that restrictive orders suspending internet, telecommunications and movement should be reviewed by the government. It said freedom of speech and expression and the freedom to carry on trade or profession through the internet is a fundamental right under Article 19 of the Constitution, and any order suspending internet can only be temporary and not for an indefinite period. Such orders should indicate reasons for such a shutdown, which should be published in the public domain, the court ruled. While the court did say bars on free speech and movement would violate fundamental rights, it didn’t strike down such prohibitions. Instead, it asked the government to review such restrictions. The practical impact of the judgment was scant, though the government subsequently eased many restrictions. Plea for restoring 4G services A petition was filed in the Supreme Court in April, challenging an order by the Jammu and Kashmir administration restricting mobile internet speeds to 2G. The petition by the NGO, Foundation for Media Professionals, said 4G services be restored in view of the Covid-19 crisis. It contended restrictions on mobile internet speed was affecting the people’s right to know the latest information about Covid-19 and medical health services since doctors weren’t able to access latest studies, protocols, manuals and advisories on the Coronavirus. It also pointed out that slow internet speeds rendered telemedicine or online video consultations impossible. The Supreme Court, in a judgment on May 11, refrained from passing directions to restore 4G services and instead constituted a special committee of senior officers to take a call on the issue and to examine the need to allow faster internet speed in certain areas of the union territory. Subsequently, a contempt of court petition was filed by the petitioner in June, pointing out that no action had been taken to comply with the top court’s judgment. The central government told the Supreme Court a special committee was set up in line with the Supreme Court’s May 11 order to review restrictions on mobile internet speeds and it decided against any relaxations for the time being. When the matter came up for hearing on July 28, the petitioner told the court that Lieutenant Governor GC Murmu had told media that 4G should be restored, a stance contrary to the Central government’s. The Central government told the Supreme Court it will verify media reports and respond to the petitioner’s claim. The case will come up for hearing on August 7. Habeas corpus petitions Several habeas corpus petitions were filed in the Supreme Court against detention of individuals. Four such petitions are: Omar Abdullah Former chief minister Omar Abdullah’s detention was challenged in February in the Supreme Court by his sister Sara Abdullah Pilot. The top court on February 14 issued notice to the Jammu and Kashmir administration but the petition became infructuous (pointless) after Abdullah was released on March 24. Mehbooba Mufti Iltija Mufti, the daughter of former chief minister and Peoples Democratic Party leader Mehbooba Mufti, challenged the latter’s detention under the Public Safety Act (PSA), saying it was based on vague grounds that demonstrated personal and political bias. Mufti was detained on August 5, 2019. She was initially detained under Section 107 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which empowers an executive magistrate to order a person to execute bonds “for keeping the peace”. She was in custody for six months and her detention was set to expire in February, when a new detention order was issued under PSA, which allows the administration to detain a person without trial for up to two years. In her petition, Iltija said the February 5 order shifting her mother from preventive custody to detention under PSA was based on a dossier prepared by the superintendent of police, Srinagar, that was replete with personal remarks and in bad taste. The court issued notice to the Central government on February 26 but the matter hasn’t been heard after that. The central government, on July 31, extended Mufti’s detention by three months. Saifuddin Soz This would be the most noteworthy of all habeas corpus pleas from Jammu and Kashmir. Congress leader and former Union minister Soz’s detention was challenged in the Supreme Court on June 1 by his wife Mumtazunnisa Soz. Soz, an octogenarian, is a former member of Parliament who served as Union minister for environment and forests during 1997-99, and as Union minister for water resources during 2006-09. He was detained on August 5, 2019. When the petition came up for hearing on June 8, the Supreme Court sought responses from the Central government and Jammu and Kashmir. The Centre said in an affidavit in July that Soz was never under detention and the petition was misconceived and frivolous. It said Soz had been given security for his protection and was free to go anywhere. The Supreme Court disposed of the case on July 29 after recording the Centre’s stance. However, there was a twist to the tale as Soz was captured on video stating he is under house arrest. The video showed security personnel barring Soz from coming out of his house or not permitting visitors inside the compound. The order passed by the Supreme Court on July 29 disposing of the petition is yet to be uploaded on the court’s website. Mian Abdul Qayoom Jammu and Kashmir High Court Bar Association president Qayoom secured a reasonably favourable order from the top court. Qayoom was detained on August 5 last year under PSA. He was shifted to Agra the same month and then to Tihar jail in Delhi in January. His plea challenging his detention was turned down by the Jammu and Kashmir high court on May 29. The high court said Qayoom’s ideology, which the government termed “separatist”, was like a live volcano and remained unaffected by passage of time. Qayoom then appealed to the top court. A three-judge bench ordered Qayoom’s release on July 29 after the Central government agreed, taking into account his age and deteriorating health. “We are sure that the petitioner (Qayoom) will also adopt a more constructive approach to the future and the Government will consider how to bring complete normalcy at the earliest,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-and-article-370-a-look-at-the-cases-in-sc-and-where-do-they-stand/story-SLNajzn1cL3JNXuHH4eVdO.html
04-08-2020||India||Under attack from his own party leaders, Amarinder Singh vows to spare no one for hooch tragedy||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday assured that no one found guilty in the recent hooch tragedy in the state that killed over 100 people, will be spared amid voices within his own party alleging state government’s complicity with the illicit liquor mafia. At least 110 people died after consuming spurious liquor, mainly in the three districts-- Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Batala. The Punjab government is facing a barrage of attacks from opposition and even from within the ruling party over allegations of state government’s alleged connivance with the mafia running the illicit liquor trade.Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, who had ordered a magisterial inquiry into the incident and instructed the police chief for a swift crackdown on the spurious liquor network in the state, said no one will be spared irrespective of their influence and position.“Deaths by illicit alcohol are extremely sad and unfortunate. Police and Excise Depts tasked to nab all responsible, irrespective of their affiliations & position. Assure you as CM that no one will be spared & guilty will be punished to ensure justice,” Singh tweeted on Tuesday.Also Read: Six more die due to spurious liquor in Punjab; death toll 110Singh’s tweet follows a Congress MP accusing the state government of being complicit with the accused.“It’s a big tragedy, such a thing has never happened in Punjab. It couldn’t have happened without the knowledge of government & police. That is why no action is being taken. How did raw material for liquor come amid curfew?,” Congress Rajya Sabha MP Shamsher Dullo was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Dullo further questioned how the tragedy took place despite him having warned the state government and the party top brass in Delhi about the menace of spurious liquor trade in the Punjab.“I had warned the state government a month back in writing, even wrote to Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi & Manmohan Singh... but no action was taken. Govt seems to be in cahoots with smugglers,” Dullo was quoted as saying.Dullo is not the only Congress leader to have attacked the Punjab government, also run by the Congress party. Congress leader Pratap Singh Bajwa had also hit out at Amarinder Singh government over the tragedy. Now, a miffed Punjab Congress is demanding disciplinary action against the duo.Also Read: Punjab ministers defend their govt over hooch tragedyThe state police have made around 40 arrests including of two businessmen in the case and a manhunt has been launched for a Ludhiana-based paint business owner who is believed to have supplied three drums of spurious liquor, responsible for the deaths.Police are chasing eight more identified accused, including the Ludhiana-based paint shop owner, Rajesh Joshi, who is believed to be a key player in the mafia chain, said DGP Dinkar Gupta.The magisterial inquiry ordered by the government is also probing the role of six police and seven excise and taxation officers who were suspended on Saturday for alleged dereliction of duty.The state government has also rejected a demand for CBI probe into the incident made by Delhi chief minister and AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/under-attack-from-his-own-party-leaders-amarinder-singh-vows-to-spare-no-one-for-hooch-tragedy/story-Ygov7SpRxaOHJFpWPBr8wM.html
04-08-2020||India||Ailing woman in Chhattisgarh dies after allegedly turned back from police check post||An ailing 60-year-old woman on way to a hospital died after being allegedly denied to pass through a check post on a highway in Surajpur district by police citing Covid-19 protocol. Police, however, refuted the allegations of the family and claimed the driver of the vehicle assumed that he also needed a pass for inter-district travel and returned from the check post without informing them about the medical emergency. The Surajpur district collector has ordered an enquiry into the incident and said that action will be taken accordingly. “The incident took place on August 2, when my wife Bihani Devi who was suffering from cold, cough and fever, was being shifted to a hospital in Ambikapur in Surguja district. When we were going from Balrampur district, we were stopped by policemen at a check post under Chandaura police station in Surajpur district,” Ramadhar Painka, the husband of Bihani Devi told reporters.The family members also claimed that they showed the hospital prescriptions but police allegedly refused to allow them to cross the check post following which they returned to Wadrafnagar where Bihani Devi was being treated. She died later in the day in the local hospital. A senior health department official said the woman was a heart patient.Inspector General of Police, Surajpur, KL Dangi said the charges against the police were not correct and the family members had not told police officers deployed at the check post about the medical emergency. “A joint team of police, health officials and revenue officers is deployed at the check post because it is highway which connects Uttar Pradesh. For inter-district commutation, no pass is required. It is only for the people coming from other states the passes are checked and that too by other officials not police,” said Dangi. The IG further said there was a long queue of vehicles at the check post. The family was in a private vehicle along with the ailing woman.“The driver without asking anyone at the check-post told the family members that a pass is required and hence they went back to Wadrafnagar where the treatment of the woman was going on. The woman died there which is unfortunate,” the IG said. The officer further said that everyone knows that for inter-district commutation no pass is needed in the state. Meanwhile, Surajpur Collector Ranbir Sharma said, an enquiry headed by a joint collector has been ordered into the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ailing-woman-in-chhattisgarh-dies-after-allegedly-turned-back-from-police-check-post/story-oUWJ4LqleH1REoetwR75HJ.html
04-08-2020||India||‘Read the Constitution’: Nitish Kumar faces pushback for CBI probe in Sushant case||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday set up a fresh row over investigations into Sushant Singh Rajput death, recommending a CBI probe into the actor’s death on June 14. Kumar’s announcement came after Bihar police chief Gupteshwar Pandey spoke with the actor’s father earlier in the day.“The state government has sent its recommendation for a CBI probe into the FIR registered by Sushant Singh Rajput’s father KK Singh,” Nitish Kumar tweeted on Tuesday afternoon after completing the paperwork to make the recommendation.Kumar had earlier in the day announced that his government would seek a CBI probe after Bihar lawmakers across parties demanded that the central investigating agency take up the case.Bihar lawmakers had yesterday again pushed for a CBI inquiry in the state assembly. BJP leader Neeraj Singh, who is also Sushant’s cousin, was the first to raise the demand. Leader of Opposition Tejashwi Yadav quickly backed him up, saying Sushant Singh Rajput’s family should get justice.The actor’s suicide in Mumbai has been a politically sensitive case in Bihar, Sushant Singh’s home before he moved to Mumbai. Bihar assembly elections are scheduled later this year and no party wants to be seen standing on the wrong side of the narrative around Sushant Singh Rajput’s death in Bihar.But the attempt by Bihar Police to launch a parallel investigation into Sushant Singh’s death in Mumbai had been a controversial one, right from the beginning over the jurisdiction of the state police for offences alleged to have taken place in Maharashtra.Satish Maneshinde, the lawyer who is representing actor Rhea Chakraborty, was the first to launch a counter-attack at the Bihar government, wondering how it could recommend transfer of a case that it had no business investigating. Maneshinde told reporters that the Bihar police could only register a zero FIR.A zero FIR is registered by a police station when an offence reported to it has been committed in the area under the jurisdiction of a different police station.Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh has made the same point. “The law is clear. If the incident has not happened in our jurisdiction, we register a ‘zero’ first information report [FIR], and transfer it,” the Mumbai police chief said on Monday.But the sharpest attack came from Randeep Surjewala, the Congress’ chief spokesperson.Surjewala said it was time for the chief minister to read the Constitution again.“It is the responsibility of the state government to maintain law and order within the state. In Maharashtra, it is the responsibility of Maharashtra’s coalition government led by Uddhav Thackeray to enforce the law. Nitish Kumar should read the Constitution again. Nitish Kumar or the Bihar government cannot interfere with the investigations by trying to force its way in,” Surjewala said.The standoff between Mumbai and Bihar police over the Sushant Singh case is seen to mirror the rivalry between the Nitish Kumar-led NDA government in Bihar and Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi coalition that comprises the Shiv Sena, Congress and Nationalist Congress Party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-recommends-cbi-probe-in-sushant-case-sets-up-a-new-row/story-qbjgT4fEXLCxk3YZhdy77H.html
04-08-2020||India||Adhir writes to PM for Kafeel Khan’s release, says ‘Ramraj’ antithetical to injustice||Leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Tuesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking the release of medical practitioner Kafeel Khan, booked under the National Security Act (NSA) for alleged hate speech.Chowdhury contended that “grievous injustice” was being meted out to the Uttar Pradesh doctor.Khan is in detention for allegedly making an inflammatory speech on the Aligarh Muslim University campus during the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests.With just a day to go for the groundbreaking ceremony of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, Uttar Pradesh, Chowdhury, in his letter to the PM, said, “Ramraj (Lord Ram’s rule) is antithetical to injustice, discrimination and retribution.” “I, on behalf of my party, vehemently opposed the legislation (CAA) inside the Parliament and outside. However, no NSA was invoked against me or the millions of other protesters across the country.“I am quite bewildered as to why a young medical practitioner has been implicated despite the fact that freedom of expression has been engraved in the hallowed Constitution of India,” Chowdhury wrote in the letter.The senior Congress leader urged Modi to secure justice for Khan, who had been in jail since January.“Even international forums such as the United Nations have been persuading you for the release of Kafeel Khan. Sir, I firmly believe that ‘Ramraj’ is simply antithetical to injustice, discrimination and retribution,” the Lok Sabha MP from Berhampore said.Khan was arrested at Mumbai airport on January 29 in connection with a case registered at Aligarh’s Civil Lines police station under section 153-A of the Indian Penal Code.The section relates to enmity promotion between groups over religion and other differences.On February 10, Khan was granted bail by the Allahabad High Court but not immediately released by Mathura Jail authorities. His family then moved the court in Aligarh, claiming contempt of the HC order.The court issued a fresh release order on February 13.But before it could be executed, the authorities invoked the National Security Act against him.The paediatrician had earlier faced arrest following the deaths of over 60 children in a week at a government hospital in UP’s Gorakhpur in 2017.About two years later, a state government probe cleared Khan of all major charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adhir-writes-to-pm-for-kafeel-khan-s-release-says-ramraj-antithetical-to-injustice/story-c0ZTrenM49FRpgEetzJyRM.html
04-08-2020||India||Tests show man is Covid-19 +ve, he runs away from hospital; FIR filed||The police have filed an FIR against a Covid-19 positive man who ran away from a hospital in Udham Singh Nagar (US Nagar) district of Uttarakhand, said officials, adding that the search team has been told to take preventive measures while bringing him back. The man ran away from the hospital soon after the test results on Sunday night confirmed that he was positive for coronavirus, an official said.“We have lodged an FIR against the person and advised our staff to take extra precautions while arresting him,” said Ashok Kumar, in-charge Pantnagar police station.The district hospital falls under the jurisdiction of Pantnagar police station.“The 33-year-old man was suffering from fever. His test was conducted and when the report was received and he was informed that he had tested Covid-19 positive, he ran away from the hospital,” said Kumar.Ever since the epidemic began, many people have run away from quarantine centres and hospitals, especially in the Kumaon region. In May, nine people ran away from a village quarantine centre in the Bazpur area of US Nagar. In the same month, 10 persons ran away from a quarantine centre set up at Haripura village in US Nagar. Later, they were nabbed by police and again put under quarantine at Sooraj Mal College at Kichha.Similar incidents were reported from quarantine centres in Kashipur, Nanakmatta, Pantnagar and Khatima areas of US Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tests-show-man-is-covid-19-ve-he-runs-away-from-hospital-fir-filed/story-OrknIdoLo8Le5Wtjliv4xL.html
04-08-2020||India||US doing ‘very well’ against Covid-19, India has a ‘tremendous problem’: Donald Trump||President Donald Trump has said that as compared to big countries, America is doing “very well” in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, while India is having a “tremendous problem” battling the disease and China is witnessing a “massive flare up” in infections.India’s Covid-19 tally increased to 18,55,745 on Tuesday with 52,050 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day.China on Tuesday reported 36 new cases across the country, down from 43 the previous day. The country’s Covid19 cases crossed the 100-mark on July 29, for the first time in over three months, sparking the fear of a rebound.“I think we’re doing very well. I think that we have done as well as any nation. If you really look, if you take a look at what’s going on, especially now with all these flare ups and nations that they were talking about,” Trump told reporters at a news conference here on Monday.As such, compared to larger countries, the US is doing much better in the fight against the coronavirus, he said.“Don’t forget, we’re much bigger than--other than India and China. China is having a massive flare up right now. India has a tremendous problem. Other countries have problems,” he said in response to a question.“And I noticed that in the news, in the evening news, I never read about that. In any news, I don’t read about the other countries. You’re starting to see that other countries are having very big flare ups, countries that thought they were over it, like we thought we might be over in Florida, and then all of a sudden it comes back. They do come back,” he said.The US is the worst-hit country from the pandemic with over 4.7 million cases and more than 155,000 deaths.The US, Trump said, has tested over 60 million people for coronavirus.“No other country is even close to that. We’ve tested 60 million people -in many cases about 50 percent, now rapid fire, meaning five to 15 to 20-minute tests where you get the results almost immediately. Nobody has anything like that. Nobody. And I think we’re just doing very well,” he said.Trump said that the US is beginning to see evidence of significant progress. Nationwide, the number of positive cases has declined by nearly six percent from the week before, and the positive test rate has also dropped from 8.7 per cent to 8 per cent over that same period of time.“Hotspots across the South and West; we have seen slow improvements from their recent weekly peaks,” he said, adding that Arizona’s weekly case counts have dropped 37 per cent that is a tremendous drop and the governor and the state have done a fantastic job down 37 per cent, Texas down 18.7 per cent, and Florida 21.2 per cent drop.“As we begin to contain the virus in these states, we must focus on new flare ups in the states where the case numbers have risen, including Georgia, Mississippi, Tennessee, Oklahoma, Missouri, and I think you will find that they are soon going to be very much under control,” he said.Meanwhile, 18 states continue to have very low case numbers and low test positivity rates under five per cent, including New Jersey, New York, Alaska, Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Maine, Maryland and Massachusetts.Even in these states, however, where the virus is under control and at a very low number, Americans should continue to be vigilant, be careful in order to prevent the new hotspots from opening up, he said.“To that end, I urge all Americans to continue to socially distance, wash your hands, wear a mask when you cannot avoid crowded places and to protect the elderly very, very important, protect the elderly. It is much different....,” Trump said.It is important for all Americans to recognise that a permanent lockdown is not a viable path towards producing the results that one wants or certainly not a viable path forward and would ultimately inflict more harm than it would prevent, he said.“As we are seeing in foreign countries around the world where cases are once again surging, you have many places where we thought they were under control doing a great job, and they are doing a great job, but this is a very tough invisible enemy. Lockdowns do not prevent infection in the future. They just don’t. It comes back many times...,” he said.The purpose of a lockdown is to buy time to build capacity in hospitals, learn more about the disease and develop effective treatments, he asserted.“We are doing very well with the vaccines and the therapeutic. Countries, where there have been very significant flare ups over the last short period of time, are Spain, Germany, France, Australia, Japan, and also, as you probably heard in Hong Kong, they have had some very serious flare ups. Japan has gone a lot of--six-fold, six-fold flareup, that’s a lot, but they will get it under control,” he said.“In our current phase, we must focus on protecting those at highest risk while allowing younger and healthier Americans to resume work and school with careful precautions. Ideally, we want to open those schools. We want to open them. “At the same time, we are placing an emphasis on continuing to drive down the mortality rate with improved care, treatment, and medical interventions building a bridge to the introduction of a vaccine. The vaccines are coming along incredibly well,” Trump said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-doing-very-well-against-covid-19-india-has-a-tremendous-problem-donald-trump/story-mDuxQx9C5pwIPd6EmqlgzK.html
04-08-2020||India||Lord Ram belongs to everyone, says Priyanka Gandhi ahead of bhoomi pujan||Ahead of the ‘bhoomi poojan’ for the Ram temple on Wednesday, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday expressed the hope the groundbreaking ceremony in Ayodhya will be a celebration of national unity, brotherhood and cultural harmony. “Lord Ram belongs to everybody. Lord Ram wants everybody’s welfare. That is why he is called ‘Maryada Purshottam’,” the Congress general secretary said in a statement. “The groundbreaking ceremony of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya has been scheduled for August 5. Hope this event becomes an occasion of national unity, brotherhood and cultural harmony in accordance with the message of Lord Ram and with his blessings and that of Mother Sita,” she said. Gandhi’s remarks are in line with the party’s renewed stand on the issue after the Supreme Court gave its verdict on the Ram temple last November. At its meeting on November 9 last year, the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest decision-making body, unanimously passed a resolution on the issue, saying it respects the verdict. It had also appealed to everyone to maintain peace and harmony in the country. That day, the Congress favoured the construction of the Ram temple and sought to take credit for the development, insisting it was the party-led central government that acquired 67 acres outside the disputed 2.77 acres in 1993 to maintain law and order. The Congress also recalled it was the Rajiv Gandhi government that allowed ‘shilanyas’ or a groundbreaking ceremony at an undisputed site close to the structure and opened the doors of the Ram temple in 1986. After the demolition of the disputed structure on December 6, 1992, the Centre acquired the disputed site and 67 acres surrounding it through a law passed in 1993. The land included pockets of government land, a disputed shrine and land belonging to Ram Janmabhoomi Nyas. But the Nyas opposed the take-over and said the land should be handed over to its rightful owner. Quoting poets such as Maithilisharan Gupt and Nirala, Priyanka Gandhi said that for ages, Lord Ram’s character had served as a source of unity for the Indian subcontinent. “Ramayana has left an indelible mark on the civilisation of the world and the Indian subcontinent. For ages, Lord Ram’s character has helped the Indian subcontinent,” she added. In a tweet, she said, “Simplicity, courage, restraint, sacrifice, commitment, are the essence of the name Deenbandhu Rama. Ram is with everyone, Ram is with everyone.” Addressing a news conference at Jaisalmer in Rajasthan, Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said politics should have ‘dharma’, instead of having politics of ‘dharma’. “It is the responsibility of each one of us to reaffirm our tradition of mutual respect and unity among all that has defined our society through the ages,” he said. Last week, former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath too welcomed the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, saying it is being built with the consent of every Indian. “I welcome the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. People of the country have been expecting and waiting for this for a long time now,” the senior Congress leader said in a video. “Such thing is possible only in India,” he added. The issue also resonated at a meeting between Congress president Sonia Gandhi and the party’s Rajya Sabha members on July 30. Deepender Singh Hooda said Congress leaders should speak in one voice and stick to the CWC resolution on the issue as it is attached to the sentiments of millions of Indians. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to attend the ‘bhoomi pujan’ ceremony at Ayodhya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lord-ram-belongs-to-everyone-says-priyanka-gandhi-ahead-of-bhoomi-pujan/story-e781uBxBZSzzOanZwPeaeL.html
04-08-2020||India||Snippets from Ayodhya: How the city has prepared for Ram temple event||Ayodhya is all set to host the foundation stone laying ceremony of a Ram temple on Wednesday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation after bhoomi pujan tomorrow, where silver bricks will be used as symbols.Chairman of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust Mahant Nritya Gopal Das has donated 40 kg silver brick for the purpose which will be used by PM Modi. However, the brick will be removed after bhoomi pujan.Here are some other snippets from Ayodhya where elaborate arrangements have been made for the event.Silver coinsShankaracharya Jayendra Saraswati of Kamikochi in Tamil Nadu, has sent silver coins to Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust.Jayendra Saraswati has sent these coins on behalf of the Ashok Singhal Foundation, an organisation named after Ashok Singhal, late president of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP). These coins will be distributed to saints on Wednesday who will attend the bhoomi pujan.Salil Singhal, nephew of Ashok Singhal, will attend the ceremony on Wednesday.Decoration of Ram Ki PaidiThe majestic Ram Ki Paidi ghat (river bank) on river Saryu has been decked up with colourful lights and rangoli for the bhoomi pujan.Students of Ram Manohar Lohia Awadh University, Faizabad, and volunteers of several NGOs are decorating Ram Ki Paidi with rangoli (coloured sand or powder used to decorate floors). Members of the Vani Viklang Sewa Sansthan, an NGO, are also involved in its decoration.Around one lakh diyas (earthen lamps) will be lit at the ghat on Wednesday to celebrate the occasion.Preparation of laddoosAround 1.11 lakh ladoos are being prepared at Mani Ram Das Chhavni Peeth for distributing among locals after bhoomi pujan. Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust has placed order for one lakh packets of Bikaneri laddus for distribution after the ceremony on Wednesday. Each packet will have four laddus. The Trust will also send these laddus to all embassies in New Delhi.The trust has placed orders for laddus with prominent sweetmeat shops in New Delhi and Lucknow. After bhoomi pujan, the trust will also distribute them among locals in Ayodhya. Along with Bikaneri laddus, the trust has also placed order for motichoor laddus.An official of the rank of additional district magistrate in Ayodhya will be made incharge for distributing laddus among saints and locals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/snippets-from-ayodhya-how-the-city-has-prepared-for-ram-temple-event/story-IsSJxUXOIfv6stNwsAPtgP.html
04-08-2020||India||Woman, two girls missing after two houses collapse into drain in Mumbai||A woman and two girls are missing after four people fell into an open drain in Mumbai’s Santacruz East after part of a chawl collapsed into a drain in heavy rain on Tuesday, fire brigade officials said. Mumbai Fire Brigade officials said search operations were on for a woman and two girls who fell in the Vakola Nallah in Santacruz East after their houses collapsed at around 11.33 am as heavy rain continued to lash Mumbai. Fire brigade officials said the woman and three girls fell in the drain after two structures adjoining the drain collapsed in torrential downpour.“One girl was rescued by the Mumbai Police and shifted to VN Desai Hospital, but one woman and two girls are still missing,” said Chief Fire Officer Prabhat Rahangdale.A search operation is continuing to locate the three missing persons. Two fire engines and an ambulance were at the spot. The fire brigade has also sought the help of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) for the search operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-two-girls-missing-after-two-houses-collapse-into-drain-in-mumbai/story-S9uSirZQlFyC4b0aNbYojJ.html
04-08-2020||India||Two BSF personnel shot dead by colleague in north Bengal||A constable of the Border Security Force (BSF) shot dead two of his colleagues in north Bengal late at night on Monday in another case of fratricide in paramilitary forces. The accused surrendered a few hours later and was handed over to the police. “Inspector Mahendra Singh Bhatti and constable Anuj Kumar were shot dead by constable Uttam Sutradhar. They died on the spot. Sutradhar surrendered before the company commander a few hours later,” said Sumit Kumar, superintendent of police (SP), Uttar Dinajpur district. The three BSF personnel were on duty along the Indo-Bangladesh border under Raiganj police station in North Dinajpur district at night on Monday. They were attached to the Maldakhand border outpost of BSF’s 146 battalion. While Sutradhar belongs to Tripura, slain Bhatti and Kumar hailed from Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, respectively. Even though a senior police officer said that Sutradhar had some grievances against some BSF officers, which could have led to the fratricide, the paramilitary authorities are yet to ascertain the cause of the incident. On Monday night, at around 11:50 pm, Sutradhar fired two rounds in the air from his service rifle. When Bhatti and Kumar rushed to the spot, Sutradhar opened fire on them and killed them on the spot. “The company commander reached the spot and the constable surrendered to him at around 3 am. The victims neither had any quarrel nor scuffle with the accused. The cause of firing will be ascertained after the conduct of a probe,” said Rajeev Ranjan Sharma, deputy inspector- general (DIG) BSF, North Bengal Frontier. The bodies were sent for post-mortem examination and Sutradhar was handed over to the police, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-bsf-personnel-shot-dead-by-colleague-in-north-bengal/story-EIhZgsyZS7WwOpIIl3XOQO.html
04-08-2020||India||At least 70 Maoists have surrendered under Lon Varratu campaign in Dantewada till now||At least 70 purported outlawed Communist Party of India (CPI)-Maoist rebels have laid down their arms and surrendered under the ongoing Lon Varratu campaign in the past two months in around 50 villages of the Left-wing Extremism (LWE)-hit Dantewada district in Chhattisgarh. The human rights activists claimed that an innocent tribal is being trapped between Chhattisgarh Police and other paramilitary security forces and the Maoists. Under the programme, the activists alleged, the police are forcing innocent tribals to turn themselves in. Lon Varratu in the tribal Gond dialect means homecoming. The police have earmarked about 50 hypersensitive Maoist-dominated villages, where pamphlets have been put up with an appeal for villagers to surrender. Police said of the 70 surrendered Maoist rebels, 15 had a reward between Rs one and eight lakh on their heads. On Sunday, Malla, who had an Rs 8-lakh reward on his head and was a military platoon deputy commander, surrendered on his own due to growing pressure from his sisters before the Raksha Bandhan that was celebrated the following day, police said. Police and the state administration believe that Maoists might come around and shun violence if community awareness and pressure could be mounted. “The narrative and the landscape have reversed. Earlier, during monsoon, the Maoists would go on a hiring spree, but now it’s the high season for surrender,” said Abhishek Pallava, superintendent of police (SP), Dantewada. The SP said the Maoists’ anonymous cover has been blown off because of the campaign. “The Lon Varratu campaign has led to transparency. There are no complaints of fake arrests and encounters. The drive targets top rung to grassroots Maoist rebels, who are being given an opportunity to join the social mainstream,” Pallava added. Police claimed that the success of the programme could be gauged from the fact that not even a single poster put up in remote Naxal sensitive villages has been torn. Soni Sori, a tribal leader, questioned the campaign and claimed that an unsuspecting tribal is caught between the Maoist rebels and the police. “Who has given the rights to the police to declare a person a Maoist? Tribal farmers have been declared Maoists under this draconian campaign,” alleged Sori. The poor tribals have nowhere to go, as the police are pressuring them to surrender and the Maoists are torturing them for co-operating with the police, she alleged. ‘Surrender is the key, but it shouldn’t be imposed upon innocent tribal farmers,” she added. Pallava refuted Sori’s allegations. “Tribals are getting an opportunity for the first time to join the social mainstream. We hope they will use this option and surrender in the coming days, as Maoists cadres in respective villages have been reduced to a minority,” he said. The SP said any tribal villager, who might feel that his name has been erroneously included as a Maoist rebel, has the right to seek redressal. He reached out to the activists to “share feedback about the campaign and ways to improve it”. The Dantewada district administration is also providing livelihood opportunities to the surrendered Maoists under the campaign. “The district administration is providing them with agricultural equipment such as tractor, construction activities, and also work in veterinary and allied departments. Many of these tribals, who have surrendered, are encouraging others to join the social mainstream. The state government’s poverty alleviation scheme for Dantewada will be extended to all the surrendered beneficiaries,” said Deepak Soni, district collector, Dantewada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-least-70-maoists-have-surrendered-under-lon-varratu-campaign-in-dantewada-till-now/story-cA7LuH2Y0hXFP6jCSEwCQK.html
04-08-2020||India||CBI searches 11 locations in Jammu and Kashmir in encroachment case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday launched search operations at 11 locations including Jammu, Udhampur and Kathua districts of Jammu and Kashmir at the offices, residential premises of public servants including then CEOs, Patnitop Development Authority etc in an ongoing investigation into a case of encroachment, officials said.The raids came after the CBI registered an FIR on the allegations of large scale illegal construction/encroachment of land in the tourist location of Patnitop area of Udhampur district.A Preliminary Enquiry was earlier conducted on the directions of the Jammu and Kashmir high court to investigate alleged violations of the master plan of Patnitop area by at least 59 hotels and resorts.The high court had passed the order on December 31 last year on a PIL filed by the president of the Hotel and Restaurant Association, Patnitop, alleging glaring violations of the master plan of the Patnitop area. The PIL claimed that the violations led to 70 per cent of hotels and restaurants being constructed without permission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-searches-11-locations-in-jammu-and-kashmir-in-encroachment-case/story-oubbewpSprKFCEK17MTr4N.html
04-08-2020||India||Covid-19 will disappear with blessings of Lord Ram: Shiv Sena||The Covid-19 crisis in the country will disappear with the blessings of Lord Ram, the Shiv Sena said on Tuesday, and pointed out that veterans like L K Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi won’t be present in Ayodhya for the temple ‘bhoomi pujan’ ceremony.An editorial in the party mouthpiece ‘Saamana” took a dig at the August 5 ceremony being held amid rising cases of coronavirus in the country.“There is no other golden moment like the one when Prime Minister Modi performs the ‘bhoomi pujan’ at Ayodhya, the Sena said. “Coronavirus is there, but will disappear with Lord Ram’s blessings,” it added.Advani and Joshi, key leaders associated with the Ram temple construction campaign, will witness the ceremony via video conferencing from Delhi, the editorial noted.They were advised not to attend the ceremony in view of their age and the outbreak of Covid-19 in Ayodhya, it said.Uma Bharti, another prominent leader attached to the campaign, will also not be present at the ceremony and will instead watch it “from the banks of the Sarayu river through the eyes of her mind”, the Sena said.There is excitement in the country in view of the ‘bhoomi pujan’ ceremony, the Sena said. “Coronavirus has spread in Ayodhya, Uttar Pradesh and the entire country. This crisis, too, will fade away with the blessings of Lord Ram,” it said.The responsibility of security arrangements in Ayodhya was with the Home ministry, but it is unfortunate that Home Minister Amit Shah tested coronavirus positive, it said.Despite the presence of the Prime Minister, the RSS chief, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister and others, the ceremony will be lacklustre without Shah, the Sena said.It said Shah participated in a public event in Delhi last Saturday and attended the cabinet meeting last Wednesday observing social distancing norms, and has asked those who came in his contact in the past few days to isolate themselves and get tested for coronavirus.The entire Council of ministers needs to be isolated, if the home minister is saying this, it said.Shah is close to Modi but nothing will happen to the prime minister and the home minister due the blessings of Lord Ram, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-will-disappear-with-blessings-of-lord-ram-shiv-sena/story-om10czVEwZlGMeAw9vuF7M.html
04-08-2020||India||Rajasthan SOG requests local court to transfer alleged horse-trading case to ACB||The special operations group (SOG) of Rajasthan Police has done a U-turn about the three first information reports (FIRs) registered in July related to the toppling of the Ashok Gehlot-led government by requesting a local court to transfer the investigation to the anti-corruption bureau (ACB). “We have requested the court to transfer the investigation to the ACB because the preliminary probe has revealed that the charges of inducement of Rajasthan Assembly lawmakers cannot be categorised as sedition. More details will be shared soon,” said Ashok Rathore, additional director general of police (ADGP), SOG, Rajasthan Police. The SOG has registered three FIRS on the basis of complaints filed by the chief whip of Rajasthan Assembly, Mahesh Joshi, which pertained to horse-trading allegedly aimed at dislodging the Gehlot government in Rajasthan. The first FIR was registered on July 10, in which the two accused, Ashok Jain from Banswara and Bharat Malani, were arrested and are in judicial custody. The second and third FIRs were registered on July 17. In the second FIR, Bhanwarlal Sharma, one of the 18 dissident Congress lawmakers, who is backing the sacked deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, a businessman-turned-political fixer Sanjay Jain and one Gajendra Singh were booked. On July 17, the ACB also registered a case against the three accused, who were booked under relevant sections of the Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act, 1988. Vivek Bajwa, the counsel for Jain, said that the SOG has filed an application in the chief judicial magistrate’s court that the shreds of evidence found to date are not applicable under Section 124A (sedition) of the Indian Penal Code, and the ACB could be entrusted with the responsibility of conducting the probe. He also demanded Jain’s bail on the ground that the charges levelled against his client are a bailable offence. “We have requested the court that the SOG FIRs only related to criminal conspiracy, a bailable offence. We have requested the court to grant bail to my client, Sanjay Jain,” Bajwa added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-sog-requests-local-court-to-transfer-investigation-of-toppling-of-govt-to-acb/story-syAfmO94mRZg3k8LmIGDaN.html
04-08-2020||India||‘Thin line between free speech and contempt’: Supreme Court tells Prashant Bhushan||The Supreme Court on Tuesday concluded arguments in the 2009 contempt case against advocate Prashant Bhushan. The hearing was conducted in-camera with the bench of three judges led by Justice Arun Mishra speaking to senior lawyers Rajeev Dhavan, Kapil Sibal and Harish Salve individually on WhatsApp video call. Dhavan appeared for Bhushan while Sibal represented former Tehelka editor Tarun Tejpal, who is also named in the contempt case initiated by Salve.The case pertains to an interview given by Bhushan to Tehelka where he alleged that half of past 16 chief justices of India (CJIs) were corrupt. The bench said that there is a thin line between free speech and contempt.The judges told Dhavan that they seek to balance the right to free speech on one hand and the need to protect the dignity of the judiciary as an institution.The top court had said in the last hearing that it is giving some time to the counsels appearing in the matter to prepare and had posted the matter for hearing on August 4.The apex court in November 2009, had issued contempt notice to Bhushan and Tejpal for allegedly casting aspersions on some sitting and former top court judges in an interview to Tehelka. Tejpal was the editor of the magazine.On July 22, the same bench had issued suo motu (on its own) notice to Bhushan for his remarks and two alleged derogatory tweets against the judiciary, observing his statements prima facie “brought the administration of justice in disrepute”.In his reply to the court’s notice, Bhushan said the expression of opinion, “however outspoken, disagreeable or unpalatable to some”, cannot constitute contempt of court.In a 142-page reply affidavit filed through lawyer Kamini Jaiswal, the activist lawyer has referred to several apex court judgements, speeches of former and serving judges on contempt of court and the “stifling of dissent” in a democracy and his views on judicial actions in some cases.Bhushan also stood by his two tweets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thin-line-between-free-speech-and-contempt-supreme-court-tells-prashant-bhushan/story-UEtgGBuFadsGwvpzctTj0L.html
04-08-2020||India||Mumbai receives half of August’s average rain in less than 4 days, downpour likely to continue||With 26 days to go till the end of the month, Mumbai has already received 50 percent of its August average rainfall owing to incessant downpour over the past 16 hours. Heavy rain led to the overflow of Dahisar river in the northwestern suburbs and inundated parts of the city’s national park.Against the monthly average rainfall of 585.2 mm, the Santacruz weather observatory, representative of Mumbai, recorded 293 mm rain from August 1 to August 4 noon. Of this, 271 mm was recorded between 8.30 pm Monday and 12.30 pm Tuesday. Intense thundershowers and high-speed winds witnessed overnight died down on early Tuesday morning with light to moderate rain. The suburbs recorded 20.2 mm rain between 8.30 am and 12.30 pm while south Mumbai recorded 9.8 mm.The weather bureau has predicted extremely heavy rain for the rest of Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday morning announced the formation of a low-pressure system over north Bay of Bengal (BoB). Also read: Mumbai civic body asks people to stay home unless urgent following incessant overnight rain“As per the accurate forecast, the Konkan coast, including Mumbai, has witnessed intense showers due to prevailing weather synoptic factors stemming from the low-pressure system in the BoB. This trend is likely to continue, and necessary warnings were issued to respective government departments well in advance,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director-general, IMD.Independent meteorologists said an offshore trough and a vortex system (localised circulation) were activated on Monday night paving the way for extremely heavy rain activity. “These rains were expected and predicted much earlier by the IMD as well as weather bloggers. With the confirmation of the low-pressure formation, north Konkan including Mumbai will continue to see very heavy rains for the next 48 hours. This low pressure will keep the offshore trough very active along with a cyclonic system in the north Arabian Sea,” said professor Sridhar Balasubramanian, department of mechanical engineering and IDP Climate Studies, Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay.He added that Palghar, Mumbai, Thane, Raigad and Ratnagiri should continue to remain on high alert for the next 48 hours.Water stock across seven lakes was 35 percent of the required total even after intense rainfall. It was 92 percent last year by this time. “Catchment areas (lakes supply water to the city will also start getting rains by Tuesday afternoon or evening. An increase in lake levels is expected by Aug 7,” said Balasubramanian.Areas within and along the periphery of the Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SNGP), Borivli witnessed waterlogging after Dahisar river overflowed on Tuesday morning. The SGNP office and six structures of staff quarters were flooded. “All structures had 1.5-foot high water. Our staff is working on its removal. However, more flooding was witnessed along Shanti Van bridge at SGNP’s periphery, which has put traffic movement to a standstill,” said Vijay Barabde, range forest officer, SGNP. Sunil Limaye, additional principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife-west) said, “Luckily no animals have been injured in the wild or the captive animal rescue centres and there have been minimal tree fall cases. Fortunately, an accurate forecast by the weather bureau helped us identify the risk we were facing. On Monday itself, all major files, electronics and other valuables were kept at a height of 5 foot and above to ensure there is no damage to them.” Last year water had entered the offices, damaging important documents and computer databases.Meanwhile, Tulsi lake had overflowed on July 28 through its southern course towards Vihar and then Powai Lakes. However, on Tuesday morning, lake levels reached the brim even towards the northern end of the constructed dam. “We are concerned about flooding due to excess rainwater overflows from this end of the lake, which will directly affect the residential quarters and the SGNP office area. Despite repeated reminders last year for a structural audit of the lake, it has not been carried out so far,” said Limaye.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-receives-half-of-august-s-average-rain-in-less-than-4-days-downpour-likely-to-continue/story-wImRGhL2iMMhVSEEjVdgyM.html
04-08-2020||India||Congress again reaches out to rebel Rajasthan MLAs, lists its only condition||The Congress party could hold talks with the rebel MLAs of Sachin Pilot camp if they leave the hospitality of Manohar Lal Khattar government in Haryana, underlined party’s national spokesperson Randeep Surjewala on Tuesday. Surjewala maintained that the only condition for talks with the dissident Rajasthan MLAs is that they leave the BJP’s “suraksha chakra (protection)”. “Innocent kids are being killed, gang rapes are taking place, people are being beaten up in Gurugram. There is no police available for them, but 1,000 policemen are deployed for the security of 19 upset MLAs. The legislators should first give up the Haryana police’s security, and friendship and hospitality of the BJP, return home and only then will the dialogue take place,” said Surjewala, once again underscoring the party’s accommodating stance. Congress leaders have alleged that Pilot camp is staying at a Haryana hotel on BJP’s hospitality. They have also accused the BJP of attempting to topple the Gehlot-led government in Rajasthan.Surjewala, Rajasthan Congress in-charge Avinash Pande, and senior leader Ajay Maken have been sent by the party to the state as Central observers. On Saturday, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, who earlier used harsh words against his Number 2 in the government, said that he would welcome back former deputy chief minister Sachin pilot and other dissident Congress legislators if the party’s high command forgave them.“If the high command forgives them (dissident MLAs), I will hug them. I have no prestige point,” Gehlot said while talking to the media outside a Jaisalmer hotel, where the MLAs loyal to him were shifted ahead of the assembly session from August 14.Gehlot has also rejected the claim of dissident Congress MLAs that their work was not being done.He told reporters that the MLAs earlier used to appreciate the government’s work and now they are complaining about it.He said people elected them but now they have “revolted”.The fissures in the state Congress leadership came to the fore when Pilot and 18 other MLAs rebelled against the Gehlot government in July. The chief minister has accused Pilot of trying to topple the government and alleged that he did nothing substantial as the Rajasthan Congress president in a seven-year tenure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-again-reaches-out-to-rebel-rajasthan-mlas-lists-its-only-condition/story-etV90KJHitS1ws4kCbPoWK.html
04-08-2020||India||Dissidents want dialogue, first leave BJPs hospitality and security: Surjewala||Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala on Tuesday said the 19 dissident party members of the Rajasthan legislative assembly (MLAs) should leave the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) hospitality and security of the Haryana Police, if they want to hold a dialogue with the party. “They (dissident MLAs) should first leave the hospitality of the BJP and security of the Haryana government, if they want to hold a dialogue. They should break their friendship with the BJP and ghar wapasi karein (return home),” he said while responding to the media persons’ query whether the doors are open for 19 Congress rebel lawmakers, including sacked deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot.Surjewala spoke to the media persons outside Hotel Suryagarh in Jaisalmer, where the Congress MLAs have been camping since last Friday. He alleged that the innocent children are being murdered, women are gang-raped and people are beaten up in Haryana but there is no police protection available for them. “But for 19 MLAs, around 1,000 police personnel has been deployed. The BJP is providing security to dissident Congress MLAs. What does this mean?” he asked. He also took an exception to the Bihar Police’s alleged interference in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death by suicide in Mumbai on June 14. He said the probe must be conducted under the jurisdiction of the Maharashtra Police. “The constitution and law uphold that maintaining law and order is the responsibility of the state government. Bihar government and its police cannot forcefully take action in other states. Such an action will lead to anarchy,” he said.Surjewala also read out the statement of Congress leaders such as Priyanka Gandhi-Vadra on the occasion of Bhoomi Pujan of the Ram temple in Ayodhya on Wednesday. BJP leader Mukesh Pareek said it is surprising that the Congress speaks with a forked tongue while rubbishing baseless allegations against his party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dissidents-want-dialogue-first-leave-bjps-hospitality-and-security-surjewala/story-wYGVkWxYugeinxgxOw4jIK.html
04-08-2020||India||In PM Modi’s 3-hour Ayodhya visit, Hanuman Garhi darshan and tree plantation drive||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Wednesday lay the foundation stone for the construction of a Ram temple in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya. He will be in the city for three hours tomorrow.According to the official itinerary released on Tuesday, the prime minister will start from Delhi at 9:35 am, and the groundbreaking is ceremony is scheduled to take place after noon. The PM will first go to Lucknow on a special plane from Delhi, and from there to Ayodhya on a helicopter.He will straightaway go to Hanuman Garhi for Lord Hanuman’s darshan. The temple is being decorated ahead of the prime minister’s visit.Special puja and Vedic rituals have been going on at the ceremony venue since Monday. Prayers are also being held at Hanuman Garhi.PM Modi will reach the Ram Janmabhoomi site at noon, where he will visit Ram Lalla (infant Lord Ram) for 10 minutes, according to the itinerary. He will then participate in a tree plantation programme in the premises.The main programme of bhoomi poojan will begin at 12:30 pm and PM Modi will lay five silver bricks as the temple foundation amid the chanting of religious hymns at 12:40 pm, according to the Associated Press. The priests and religious leaders supervising the entire event said that the muhurat (auspicious moment) will last only for 32 seconds.The prime minister will also meet Swami Nrityagopal Das and other members of the Ram Janmabhoomi trust after the programme. He will leave for the helipad at 2:05 pm and for Lucknow at 2:20 pm.At Ram Janmabhoomi, 21 priests started Vedic rituals at around 9 am on Tuesday for Ramacharya puja. Several other Vedic rituals will also be performed later in the day.Eight priests from Ayodhya, five each from Varanasi and Delhi and three from Kamikochi in Tamil Nadu are performing the rituals at Ram Janmabhoomi for the construction of the temple.Ayodhya has been decked up for the event. Scenes from the popular stories of Ramayana have been etched on to the walls and other structures of the city on the road which PM Modi will use to reach the groundbreaking ceremony venue. More than 100,000 oil lamps will light up the city in celebration, said chief priest Satyendra Das.A security clampdown, however, will allow only limited entry to devotees into Ayodhya because of the coronavirus pandemic. Last week, a priest and 15 police officers in the area tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-pm-modi-s-3-hour-ayodhya-visit-hanuman-garhi-darshan-and-tree-plantation-drive/story-KHVCef8K2g1KqMlmsXK1NK.html
04-08-2020||India||Aircraft on AMU campus appears on online sale list; Proctor says it is fake||An IAF aircraft installed on the campus of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) here was shown listed on online website OLX with a sale price of over Rs 9 crore on Monday. However, university authorities have clarified that the post on the website is false and is an attempt to defame the institution. “The post on OLX about the sale of aircraft installed in the campus is wrong. University has not taken any step to auction or sell it. We are looking into the matter. It’s an attempt to defame the university,” said Mohd Wasim Ali, AMU Proctor.The aircraft installed at the university in 2009 as a symbol of the Indian Air Force (IAF) was listed on OLX for sale for Rs 999,99,999 on August 3. However, as soon as the information started spreading on social media, the post was deleted from the website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aircraft-on-amu-campus-appears-on-online-sale-list-proctor-says-it-is-fake/story-UqaBOKxlYiqAWBDfufXEbI.html
04-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: CBI registers case against Mumbai-based jewellery firm in multi-crore fraud involving SBI and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.CBI case against Mumbai-based jewellery trading company in multi-crore fraud involving SBIThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a case against Mumbai based jewellery trading company - Auro Gold Jewellery Pvt Ltd - and its directors Amritlal Jain and Ritesh Jain for allegedly cheating State Bank of India of Rs 387 crore. Read more here. In Pics| Silver coins, 1.25L laddoos, NSG commandos: Ayodhya readies for Ram Temple ceremonyWith just a day left for the foundation laying-ceremony of the Ram Temple, preparations are in full swing in the temple town of Ayodhya. Read more here.  UPSC Civil Services Exam 2019 Result: Pradeep Singh tops exam, check toppers listUnion Public Service Commission (UPSC) on Tuesday declared the result of civil services examination 2019 on its official website. Read more here. Have you seen the video of this ‘super-flirty’ African grey parrot? It may win you over“How can you tell when an African grey parrot is being flirty?” this is how a Facebook post by Zoo Atlanta begins and as you read the post, or see the video shared along with it, chances are you’ll find yourself smiling. Read more here. Raksha Bandhan 2020: Kareena Kapoor, Kajol, Nysa, Alia Bhatt, Tara Sutaria dress to impress for RakhiRakhi 2020: From Kareena Kapoor Khan and Kajol Devgan to Malaika Arora and Ananya Panday, here are some of our favourites celebrity looks from this year’s Rakhi celebrations. Read more here. IPL 2020 in UAE: All about bowling and handling spin well, says Dean Jones | ExclusiveJones’ experience of having watched T20 cricket being played in the UAE from close quarters gives him an edge as a cricket pundit during the upcoming IPL. Speaking to Hindustan Times over phone from Australia, Jones said that it could all come down to who plays spin better as the pitches are going to get tired with so much cricket being played on them in extremely hot conditions. Read more here.Chinese apps Baidu, Weibo blocked in India, to be taken off app storesBoth Weibo and Baidu will be taken off the Google Play Store and the Apple App Store and Internet Service Providers have also been asked to block these apps. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-cbi-registers-case-against-mumbai-based-jewellery-firm-in-multi-crore-fraud-involving-sbi-and-all-the-latest-news/story-QsYdE4rywoeSeU3aHW97eK.html
04-08-2020||India||In Pics| Silver coins, 1.25L laddoos, NSG commandos: Ayodhya readies for Ram Temple ceremony||With just a day left for the foundation laying-ceremony of the Ram Temple, preparations are in full swing in the temple town of Ayodhya. The main guest list for the August 5 event includes Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and governor Anandiben Patel. There will be a total of 175 people in attendance, comprising religious leaders and eminent local citizens.The priests and religious leaders supervising the entire event said that the muhurat (auspicious moment) will last only for 32 seconds on Wednesday - from 12:44:08 on to 12:44:40 pm.The PM will reach Ayodhya on Wednesday itself and spend three hours in the city. He will also visit the Hanuman Garhi temple during his visit. He will first visit the deity at the temple site and then release a special postage stamp for the occasion. This will be followed by tree plantation and a puja for the event. This puja is expected to last about 20 minutes after which the PM will deliver a speech. The entire event is expected to wrap up by 2pm.The saints participating in the ceremony will be given silver coins that have been sent for the bhumi pujan by Shankaracharya Jayendra Saraswati of Kamikochi to the Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust.Ahead of Wednesday’s ceremony, 21 priests began a three-day vedic rituals on Monday at the Ram Janmabhoomi site as well as at Hanuman Garhi temple.Over one lakh laddus are being prepared for the ceremony. There is a heavy security arrangement at the temple site and entire Ayodhya. around 4.000 security personnel including NSG commandos are manning the site and 75 check posts are blocking approach roads. The district borders were sealed from Monday night.The town is expected to shut down at least two hours before the PM arrives. If someone leaves in the middle of the event, they will not be allowed back in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-pics-silver-coins-1-25l-laddoos-nsg-commandos-ayodhya-readies-for-ram-temple-ceremony/story-m1VYWoBYD1csgcATUXzPMK.html
04-08-2020||India||Tripura CM in home quarantine after two family members test Covid positive||Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb tested coronavirus disease (Coviid-19) negative, but has quarantined himself at home for a week after two of his family members were found to have contracted SARS-CoV-2, which causes the viral disease. “My Covid-19 test results have come negative. However, for the next seven days, I am quarantined at home and follow other guidelines. I shall work from home for these seven days. I thank the beloved people of Tripura for your wishes and prayers. The fight against Covid-19 will continue and together we shall win,” Deb tweeted on Tuesday morning. Deb stays with his mother Mina, wife Niti and their two children at his official residence in Agartala. Earlier, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker Rampada Jamatia and the BJP’s alliance partner Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura’s (IPFT) legislator Dhananjoy Tripura had tested Covid-19 positive. Jamatia was released from the hospital recently. Tripura has reported 5,392 Covid-19 cases, including 3,675 patients have recovered from their viral infection. So far, 28 people have died due to the viral infection in the north-eastern border state and two Covid-19 patients also died by suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-cm-in-home-quarantine-after-two-family-members-test-covid-positive/story-YKpzeUpYDVjFUiGJPSJTiO.html
04-08-2020||India||‘Hope it becomes an occasion of national unity’: Priyanka’s statement ahead of Ram Temple bhoomi pujan||Senior Congress leader and party spokesperson Randeep Surjewala on Tuesday read out a statement by party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra ahead of the ground-breaking ceremony of Ram Temple bhoomi pujan that is set to take place in Ayodhya on Wednesday. Priyanka Gandhi, in her statement, hoped that the bhoomi pujan event becomes an occasion of national unity, fraternity and cultural congregation and spreads the message and blessings of Lord Rama all across. “Simplicity, courage, restraint, sacrifice, commitment are the essence of the name Deenbandhu Rama. Ram is with everyone, Ram is with everyone,” Surjewala read out Gandhi’s statement.  Also read: Ayodhya waits for Ram temple event, Vedic rituals continueसरलता, साहस, संयम, त्याग, वचनवद्धता, दीनबंधु राम नाम का सार है। राम सबमें हैं, राम सबके साथ हैं। भगवान राम और माता सीता के संदेश और उनकी कृपा के साथ रामलला के मंदिर के भूमिपूजन का कार्यक्रम राष्ट्रीय एकता, बंधुत्व और सांस्कृतिक समागम का अवसर बने। मेरा वक्तव्य pic.twitter.com/ZDT1U6gBnb“The culture of the Indian subcontinent has a deep and indelible mark of Lord Rama, mother Sita and Ramayana. The story of the Ramayana remains illuminated in our cultural and religious memories,” her statement read. In her statement, Priyanka quoted legendary poets like Maithili Sharan Gupt, Mahapran Nirala to further explain the many facets of Lord Rama.Also read: Ram Mandir Bhumi Pujan - Here is Prime Minister Modi’s full itinerary Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation stone of the Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5 in a ceremony which is likely to see chief ministers of several states, Union ministers and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat in attendance. After the ceremony, the construction of the temple will commence.The temple town of Ayodhya is all decked up and witnessing grand arrangements for the bhoomi pujan ceremony of Ram Temple on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hope-it-becomes-an-occasion-of-national-unity-priyanka-s-statement-ahead-of-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan/story-2ZbmJFhnQcvz7A5GQkUgEJ.html
04-08-2020||India||CBI case against Mumbai-based jewellery trading company in multi-crore fraud involving SBI||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a case against Mumbai based jewellery trading company - Auro Gold Jewellery Pvt Ltd - and its directors Amritlal Jain and Ritesh Jain for allegedly cheating State Bank of India of Rs 387 crore. The complaint lodged by the SBI and addressed to the Superintendent of Police, the CBI and Anti Corruption Branch gave out a detailed account of the fraud and the parties involved. Besides Amritlal Jain and Ritesh Jain, three other people were named in the complaint along with the company. The fraud came to light through a forensic audit report dated September 10, 2014, and fraud angle examination report dated May 19, 2018. The fraud took place in Mumbai between 2011-15 where “the accused person allegedly falsified the accounts, forged and fabricated the documents in order to gain unlawfully at the cost of bank’s funds,” the complaint stated.Diamond trader and owner of Auro Gold jewellery company, Ritesh Jain, is also the prime accused in the alleged money laundering case worth Rs 1,478 crore through a web of shell companies. In March, he was nabbed by the Mumbai Police at the international airport on upon his return from Dubai. Jain had been absconding since December 2016.Mumbai’s LT Marg police had registered a cheating and criminal conspiracy case against Jain in September 2017 after a complainant approached them, alleging that his documents had been forged and a fake company formed in his name by Jain. The complainant claimed that several transactions had been made from the account without his knowledge.Earlier, another case was registered at NM Joshi Marg police station in November 2016 based on allegations that Jain and his father Amritlal Jain deposited Rs 100 crore in shell companies after demonetisation. The case was later transferred to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) which booked Jain under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering (PMLA) Act, 2002 for allegedly opening bank accounts in the name of dummy companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-case-against-mumbai-based-jewellery-trading-company-for-multi-crore-fraud-involving-sbi/story-48EMEoEprSd1Ry4caoyNqI.html
04-08-2020||India||Ram Mandir Bhumi Pujan: Here is Prime Minister Modi’s full itinerary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will reach Ayodhya on Wednesday for the groundbreaking ceremony of the Ram temple. He will spend three hours in the city during which he will also visit the Hanuman Garhi temple or Lord Hanuman.The Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra has invited 175 guests for the foundation stone-laying ceremony. These include 135 seers belonging to as many spiritual traditions.Here is the full schedule of PM Modi in Ayodhya:Departure from New Delhi at 9:35 amLanding at Lucknow airport at 10:35 amLeaving the airport for Ayodhya in helicopter at 10:40 amLanding at helipad in Saket Colony in Ayodhya at 11:30 amDarshan at Hanuman Garhi at 11:40 amReaching Ramjanmabhoomi at 12 noon10 minutes for darsha of Ram Lalla (infant Lord Ram)Tree plantation programme in the premises of the promised temple at 12:15 pmBhoomi Poojan begins at 12:30 pmFoundation stone laying ceremony at 12:40 pmMeeting Swami Nrityagopal Das and other members of the Ram Janmabhoomi trust at 1:10 pmPM Modi will leave for Saket helipad at 2:05 pmDeparture for Lucknow at 2:20 pmThe invitation list for the ceremony has been prepared only after discussions with BJP veterans L K Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi, lawyer K Parasaran and other dignitaries, the trust’s general secretary, Champat Rai, said on Monday.Sadhus from Tamil Nadu have brought two bricks made of gold and silver, with ‘Shri Ram’ in Tamil etched on them, which will be donated to Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust.The gold brick weighs 5 kg and the silver one weighs 20 kg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-mandir-bhumi-pujan-here-is-prime-minister-modi-s-full-itinerary/story-0IjWtVQ8920NqAmYPVvN2L.html
04-08-2020||India||Rajasthan police officer caught taking bribe of Rs 2 lakh, his gunner opens fire on ACB team||The Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) of Rajasthan has trapped the Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) in Sriganganagar district and his middleman while taking a bribe of 2 lakh. The bribe was taken to settle a family dispute between a Canada-based resident and his spouse of Raisinghnagar block in the district. Additional Director General of Police (ADGP) of ACB, Dinesh MN told HT that the ACB headquarter received a complaint from the NRI husband stating that ASP Amrit Lal Jingar, through his middleman Ashok Bishnoi, offered him to settle the dispute with his wife by giving her 25 lakh as compensation and 2 lakh to ASP Jingar for his mediation. The complainant had already paid Rs 1 lakh to the ASP while his wife was demanding 45 lakh for the settlement of the divorce case. The complaint was forwarded to the special unit-2 (SU-2) of the ACB for verification and after the demand was proved the ACB team led by Deputy Superintendent of Police, Mangilal Choudhary of SU-2, trapped the middleman Ashok Bishnoi accepting the bribe for ASP Jingar around 1.30 am on Tuesday night. Also read: Ram temple event - Auspicious moment will last only 32 secondsACB sources said that when another team of ACB raided the official residence of the ASP at Raisinghnagar, his gunman opened fire on the team and the ASP managed to slip away from the spot. The ACB team informed the headquarter about the escape of the alleged accused and after the intervention of Inspector General of Police, Bikaner range- Prafulla Kumar, and District Superintendent of Police- Rajan Dushyant, the ASP agreed to appear before the ACB team. Meanwhile, the ACB has arrested ASP Amrit Lal Jingar and his middleman Ashok Bishnoi who are being interrogated at the ACB office in Sriganganagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-police-officer-caught-taking-bribe-of-rs-2-lakh-his-gunner-opens-fire-on-acb-team/story-G3kJh48D4WiuRDSN8Yx8SL.html
04-08-2020||India||‘Something is wrong’: Bihar DGP targets Mumbai Police in Sushant Singh Rajput case||The Bihar Police chief amped up the fight with Maharshtra over Sushant Singh Rajput case by saying Mumbai has closed all communication channels with them.“They’ve forcibly quarantined an IPS officer. If Maharashtra government is proud of their police, then tell us what they’ve done in 50 days after death of Sushant Singh Rajput? Mumbai has closed all communication channels with us. This indicates that something is wrong,” Bihar’s Director General of Police (DGP) G Pandey said on Tuesday.The case had turned into a full-fledged inter-state fight on Monday with civic authorities in Mumbai quarantining a Bihar Police officer at the helm of a probe into the actor’s suspected suicide.Bihar Police alleged that IPS officer Vinay Tiwari was “forcibly quarantined”. Chief minister Nitish Kumar termed the move “inappropriate”. In its defence, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation said the step was taken in accordance with Maharashtra’s guidelines to stop the spread of Covid-19.Later, the Mumbai Police, who too are probing the actor’s death, said Bihar Police did not have any jurisdiction in the case.Inspector General of Police (IGP), Patna (Central) Sanjay Singh wrote a letter to BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) Commissioner on Monday, asking him to relieve Tiwari from home quarantine as it is “creating obstructions” in the probe of case.“City SP Vinay Tiwari had reached Mumbai on August 2 for further investigation and better coordination in connection with the case. Notice of him reaching Mumbai had been given in writing by SSP, Patna to Deputy Commissioner of Police, Zone-9, Bandra,” the letter read.An FIR has been registered in Patna, based on a complaint filed by Rajput’s father KK Singh, against actor Rhea Chakraborty under several sections including abetment to suicide. A team of Bihar Police is in Mumbai to probe the matter.The Bombay High Court will hear a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) seeking transfer of the case from the Mumbai Police to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The hearing was scheduled to take place on Tuesday but has been postponed due to rain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/something-is-wrong-bihar-dgp-chief-targets-mumbai-police-in-sushant-singh-rajput-case/story-u34EydXzTqaBu4I6LU8ALK.html
04-08-2020||India||Upset at India’s big review of Confucius institutes tomorrow, China says ‘be fair’||Nearly 24 hours before India begins a comprehensive review of local chapters of Confucius Institutes and agreements with Indian universities, Beijing on Tuesday asked New Delhi to treat India-China higher education in an “objective and fair manner”. In a statement, the Chinese embassy asked India to avoid what it described as “politicisation of normal cooperation” between the two countries and maintain stable people-to-people and cultural exchanges.Hindustan Times had first reported the government’s move to review the institutes after intelligence agencies raised security concerns around these institutes. The agencies had also pointed out that many central universities and institutes had gone ahead to sign pacts with Chinese institutes without basic approvals from the Centre.Also Read: Security agencies red-flag Chinese fronts in education, not just power and telecomThe security alert came against the backdrop of a standoff between soldiers of the two countries along the Line of Actual Control in East Ladakh that has stretched for over 90 days and mounting concerns in parts of the world over the misuse of institutions funded by the Chinese government for activities other than academics.The review, to be carried out jointly by the higher education regulator University Grants Commission and the education ministry, is scheduled to be held on Wednesday.A senior education ministry official rejected the insinuation that the review is a political exercise as claimed by the Chinese embassy.“The review is being conducted to understand the functioning of these institutes and syllabus… The review is being conducted from an academic perspective,” the official told Hindustan Times.The official added that he could not prejudge the outcome of the review.Also Read: China moves PLA battalion across India’s Lipulekh Pass. It’s a signalThe Confucius Institutes are directly funded by the Ministry of Education of People’s Republic of China with the ostensible aim to promote Chinese language and Culture.But they have come in for criticism all around the world, including the US and the UK for helping spread Chinese propaganda. Already, ranking members of the Chinese Communist Party Politburo Standing Committee have been quoted saying that Confucius Institutes are part of the overseas propaganda to project Beijing’s soft power.Wednesday’s review is also scheduled to take up the 54 memoranda of understanding signed by central universities and institutions with Chinese universities. This exercise, besides evaluating the academic outcome of the agreements, will also take a hard look at compliance issues. For one, if the universities, colleges and institutions took permission from the Centre (until recently, the ministry of HRD) or the ministry of external affairs before signing the MoUs with Chinese universities or Hanban.Also Read: China is making it clear it won’t budge. Respond accordingly | HT Editorial“We have been talking about peace and tranquillity with China since 1993. But does that stop the PLA (People’s Liberation Army) from attempting to nibble at the Line of Control,” a second government official said, responding to Beijing’s call to be “objective and fair”.“All we are doing is reviewing the functioning of institutes and operationalising the MoUs. It is not done with a pre-determined mind to close them. We want to know what is in it for Indian students and India,” he said.Officials in India’s security establishment, however, have been pushing for action against Chinese interests on the lines of the ban on over 100 Chinese mobile apps and barring firms based in China from getting government contracts without specific approval.The Confucius Institutes in India to be reviewed are at: University of Mumbai; Vellore Institute of Technology; Lovely Professional University, Jalandhar; OP Jindal Global University, Sonepat; School of Chinese Language, Kolkata; Bharathiar University, Coimbatore; and KR Mangalam University, Gurugram.According to central government documents accessed by HT, the list of 54 MoUs that will be reviewed this week at a high-level committee are:IIT Kharagpur - (1) Tianjin University, (2) Henan Polytechnic University [HPU], (3) Chang Gung UniversityIIT Bombay - (1) Central University of Finance and Economics, (2) Tongji UniversityIIT Madras - (1) Beijing Jiaotong University, (2) Huazhong University of Sciences and Technology, (3) Shanghai International Studies University, (4) Dalian UniversityIIT Delhi - (1) Chang’an University, (2) City University Of Hong Kong Hiksar Peoples & Republic of China, (3) China Jiliang University, (4) Nanyang Normal UniversityIIT Guwahati - (1) Hunan University, (2) Shantou University, (3) Soochow University, (4) University of Macau, (5) Yunnan UniversityIIT Gandhinagar - (1) Confucius Institute Headquarters [HANBAN]IIT Roorkee - (1) The Center for Monsoon System Research of the Institute of Atmospheric Physics at Chinese Academy of Sciences, (2) East China Normal University [ECNU]IIT Bhubaneswar - (1) Engineering Centre of Materials, Manufacturing, School of Materials Science & Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong - University, China [during state visit of President of India to China]NIT Durgapur - (1) Tianjin Polytechnic University, (2) Hohai University, (3) Integrated Risk Governance Project, Future Earth Program [hereafter IRGP/FE], Beijing Normal University, (4) Southwest University for Nationalities [SWUN], Chengdu, (5) Beijing Normal University, (6) School of Materials Science and Engineering, Jiangsu University, (7) Hunan University, Changsha, HunanNIT Surathkal - (1) Institute of Radio Frequency and optoelectronics Integrated Circuits plus State Key Lab of Bioelectronics, Southeast UniversityNIT Warangal - (1) Chang’an UniversityIISER Kolkata - (1) Hubei University, (2) Changshu Institute of TechnologyIISC Bangalore - (1) China University of GeosciencesJawaharlal Nehru University - (1) Tsinghua University, (2) Beijing Normal University, (3) Shandong University, Jinan, (4) Guiyang University, Guiyang, Guizhou, (5) Tongren University, Tongren, Guizhou, (6) Guizhou Minzu University, (7) Sichuan University of People’s Republic of China, (8) Jinan University, (9) Yunnan Academy of Social Sciences/ the Chinese [Kunming] Academy of South and Southeast Asian Studies, (10) Yunnan Minzu University, (11) Shenzhen University, Guangdong, (12) Renmin University of China, BeijingManipur University - (1) Yunnan Open UniversityCentral University of Punjab - (1) Kunming Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Kunming, (2) Xishuangbanna Tropical Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xishuangbanna, YunnanBanaras Hindu University - (1) Soochow University, School of Law, Taipei, Taiwan, Republic of China (2)Beijing Language and Culture University, (3) Beijing Foreign Studies University, (4) North China University of Water Resources & Electric Power, (5) Dali University||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-s-review-of-confucius-institutes-riles-china-says-treat-them-in-fair-manner/story-IU6vo10CjJctLR8PcKLKOK.html
04-08-2020||India||Ayodhya waits for Ram temple event, Vedic rituals continue ahead of groundbreaking ceremony||The Vedic rituals continued for the second day on Tuesday at Ram Janmabhoomi where the foundation will be laid for the construction of Ram temple by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Simultaneous Vedic rituals began at Hanuman Garhi temple.The three-day Vedic rituals which began on Monday will end with bhoomi poojan on Wednesday. PM Modi will perform the pooja at around 12.15 pm.         “Lord Hanuman is considered to be protector of Ayodhya. So, before construction of Ram Mandir begins, we are performing this puja at Hanuman Garhi to seek his (Lord Hanuman) permission to start construction work of Ram Mandir,” said Anil Mishra, member of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust.    At Ram Janmabhoomi, 21 priests started Vedic rituals at around 9 am for Ramacharya puja. Several other Vedic rituals will also be performed on Tuesday. Eight priests from Ayodhya, five each from Varanasi and Delhi and three from Kamikochi in Tamil Nadu are performing the rituals at Ram Janmabhoomi for the construction of the temple.The city of Ayodhya is decked up for the August 5 event when religious leaders and other dignitaries will gather for the ceremony. However, in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, limited number of people have been invited for the event.PM Modi, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat, UP governor Anandiben Patel and chief minister Yogi Adityanath have been listed as guests. The invitation, which had an image of Ram Lalla, or infant Ram, on the obverse, was issued in the name of Mahant Nritya Gopal Das. Adityanath visited the Ram Janmabhoomi site on Monday with senior officials to review preparations. He also went to the Hanuman Garhi temple, where PM Modi is expected to offer prayers before the ceremony on Wednesday.“It is not only a historic but also an emotional moment as after 500 years the Ram temple work will start. It will be the foundation of a new India,” Adityanath told reporters.The city, roughly 130km from Lucknow, is cloaked in security with 4,000security personnel manning the site and 75 check posts blocking approach roads. The district borders have been sealed from Monday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayodhya-waits-for-ram-temple-event-vedic-rituals-continue-ahead-of-groundbreaking-ceremony/story-eJjHMjc4b5wOQWCy1QELeO.html
04-08-2020||India||Lakhanpur toll plaza ransacked as two local youth allegedly beaten up by plaza staff||Lakhanpur toll plaza, which was inaugurated on July 22 amid a public outcry, in Jammu division’s Kathua district was ransacked at around 11 pm by a mob. Trouble erupted, when two local youth had an altercation over the payment of toll with the plaza staff. “The two youth were allegedly beaten up by the toll plaza staff with baseball bats. The news spread like wildfire in the area and a few people assembled at the plaza around 11 pm. Initially, they resorted to sloganeering, and later they ransacked the toll collection cabins,” said a local resident. A majority of the staff fled the toll plaza, and the two, who had beaten up the youth, were thrashed by the mob. Later, Jammu & Kashmir Police reached the troubled spot and resorted to mild lathi-charge to restore law and order in the area. Kathua district commissioner (DC) OP Bhagat said that following the incident prohibitory order of assembly of four or more people, under Section 144 Code of Criminal Procedure (Cr PC), have been enforced in the area. “The incident occurred at night on Monday. The SSP (Senior Superintendent of Police) informed me about it. A mob attacked the toll plaza staff. The prohibitory order has also been issued in view of August 5 (the first anniversary of the scrapping of Article of 370 of the Constitution that gave special powers to the erstwhile state of Jammu & Kashmir),” DC Bhagat said. Earlier on July 22, the opposition, including the Congress, Jammu & Kashmir National Panthers Party, National Conference, Youth Federation, Kathua, and truckers’ association, had staged protests for two days and had courted arrests for the installation of another toll plaza in the Jammu division. The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) authorities had signed an agreement for operationalisation of the toll plaza with Haryana-based Ranchordas Company. At present, tourists and pilgrims have to pay toll at four separate plazas in the Jammu division, including Lakhanpur in Kathua, Sarore in Samba, and Nagrota in Jammu. The public is sore with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for the installation of toll plazas in the Jammu division. Jammu has another toll plaza at Chenani in Udhampur. While two more have been proposed on Ring Road and Akhnoor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhanpur-toll-plaza-ransacked-as-two-local-youth-allegedly-beaten-up-by-plaza-staff/story-KLh5yxt3epr510aF1eZbdK.html
04-08-2020||India||‘Hope India treats Confucius Institutes and higher education cooperation in fair manner’: China||The Embassy of China issued a statement on Tuesday hoping India maintains healthy and stable development of people-to-people contact and cultural exchanges between two countries. It hoped New Delhi will treat “Confucius Institutes and higher education cooperation in a fair and objective manner”. This comes as the government of India is reported to review Chinese language programmes across universities. “Indian relevant parties can treat Confucius Institutes and China-India higher education cooperation in an objective and fair manner, avoid politicising normal cooperation and maintain healthy and stable development of China-India people-to-people and cultural exchanges,” it said. It said that the Confucius Institutes have played an important role in promoting Chinese language teaching in India and China-India people-to-people and cultural exchanges.  Also read: Chinese firms, mobile apps blocked, India could next target university tie-upsOver the years, Confucius Institutes have played an important role in promoting Chinese language teaching in India and China-India people-to-people and cultural exchanges. This has been generally recognized by the Indian education community: Embassy of China in IndiaConfucius Institutes are public educational partnerships between colleges and universities in China with those in other countries and deals in Chinese language teaching.  The Embassy statement further added that the demand for Chinese language teaching is expanding in India. “China-India cooperation on Confucius Institute Project has been carried out for more than 10 years,” it stated. The ministry of education will review the setting up of local chapters of the Confucius Institutes in association with seven local colleges and universities in the country. The move comes after security agencies alerted the education ministry to the growing Chinese influence in higher education in India. The ministry also plans to review 54 Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) signed between India’s prestigious educational institutions such as the IITs, the NITs, among others, and Chinese institutions. A notification in this regard has already been issued to the Ministry of External Affairs and the University Grants Commission (UGC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hope-india-treats-confucius-institutes-and-higher-education-cooperation-in-fair-manner-china/story-2VXtxVawIjiq42UmH647OP.html
04-08-2020||India||More than 50,000 new Covid-19 cases for sixth consecutive day, India’s tally crosses 1.85 million||The number of new coronavirus infections jumped by another 52,050 in India, which took the nationwide tally to 18,55,746 (over 1.85 million). This is the sixth consecutive day that Covid-19 cases have increased by more than 50,000 in the country.According to Union health ministry’s update on Tuesday, there are 5,86,298 active cases and 38,938 fatalities (803 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours). So far, 12,30,510 patients have been cured or discharged.Along with the nuber of Covid-19 cases, the numebr of tests too have gone up in the country. On Monday, India recorded highest single-day testing by conducting over 6.6 lakh tests to diagnose Covid-19.“In its fight against Covid-19, India scales a new high of 6,61,715 tests in the last 24 hours,” said the Health Ministry in a tweet on Monday.The number of Covid-19 tests carried out in India has also crossed the two crore-mark, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).The Covid-19 recovery rate stands at 65.77 per cent in the country, while the fatality rate is at 2.11 per cent, according to health ministry data.India continues to improve the Case Fatality Rate (CFR), and maintains its global position of having one of the lowest Covid-19 fatalities rates, the ministry said.The government, meanwhile, issued guidelines for reopening of gyms and yoga institutes on Monday. Only asymptomatic people will be allowed at these places, according to the guidelines. Maintaining social distancing, disinfecting equipment and wearing of visor while exercising have been made mandatory.Persons above 65 years of age, persons with comorbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 years are advised not to use gyms in closed spaces, the guidelines said.In another significant development, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has given nod to the Serum Institute of India for conducting phase 2 and 3 human clinical trials of the Oxford University’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-than-50-000-new-covid-19-cases-for-sixth-consecutive-day-india-s-tally-crosses-1-85-million/story-kMlm1W0eTMY3RYgcfJew0J.html
04-08-2020||India||Indian envoy to UN outlines Pakistan’s direct involvement in manufacturing terror||India’s permanent representative to the United Nations, TS Tirumurti, has lashed out at Pakistan, saying it is the nerve centre of terrorism.“It is a well-known fact that Pakistan is the nerve centre of terrorism. Pakistan is home to largest number of listed terrorists, internationally designated terrorist entities and individuals, including Jamaat-ud-Dawah, Lashkar-e-Taiba, Jaish-e-Mohammad and Hizbul Mujahideen,” Tirumurti said.Pakistan prime minister (Imran Khan) has on record said that there are around 40,000 terrorists present in the country, Tirumurti further said.Referring to United Nations’ 26th report of the Analytical Support and Sanctions Monitoring Team concerning ISIS, the ambassador said there is a clear acknowledgement that the leadership and funding for the terrorist entities like Al-Qaeda, ISIS emanate from Pakistan.“Under the 1267 Committee, which submits its report periodically terrorist activities of ISIL al Qaeda and its affiliates. There are several direct references to Pakistan’s involvement,” Tirumurti said.He stepped up the attack further, saying Pakistan has been trying to internationalise the bilateral issues it has with India. Tirumurti said that Pakistan’s latest attempt fell flat.“Attempts by Pakistan to try and internationalise what is a bilateral issue is nothing new. Contrary to what the foreign minister of Pakistan has asserted, there has been no formal meeting of the UN Security Council on India-Pak issue since 1965,” said Tirumurti.“What came up recently was a closed-door and completely informal meeting under ‘Any other business’, which is not even a recorded discussion,” India’s permanent representative to the UN added about the recent UN meeting.“Pakistan’s attempt fell flat. Even UN secretary general, in his statement last August, clearly referred to 1972 bilateral Shimla Agreement. Consequently, Pakistan’s efforts haven’t met any traction in UNSC. Even if Pakistan persists, there are no takers here in the United Nations,” he said.Tirumurti then went on to talk about the “infodemic” launched by Pakistan about the Covid-19 situation in India and how New Delhi countered it.“India and a group of select countries, cutting across regions, made a joint statement in the context of infodemic in the context of Covid-19, at the UN. The statement was designed to counter exactly this type of disinformation spread by countries like Pakistan in the context of Covid-19 to foment division and create disharmony among communities,” he said.Tirumurti was appointed India’s permanent representative to the United Nations in April. He will replace Syed Akbaruddin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-nerve-centre-of-terrorism-indian-envoy-to-united-nations/story-6Rq8as1bWVtbrJjh26qHRJ.html
04-08-2020||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Pakistan violates ceasefire in J&K’s Poonch district and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at this hour. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Pakistan violates ceasefire in Krishna Ghati sector of J&K’s Poonch, heavy shelling in MendharPakistan violated ceasefire in Krishna Ghati sector of Poonch district in Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday morning. The unprovoked ceasefire violation was initiated along the LoC by firing with small arms and shelling mortars in the area. Read moreEconomic recovery hits July plateau, shows dataThe rate-setting Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) will begin a two-day meeting on Tuesday amid mounting evidence that India’s nascent economic recovery is at risk of plateauing out as new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections pile up. Read moreVideo of Billie the elephant taking a dip in the pond is too cute to handleIf you’re searching for content which can make your lips curl up into a smile, then we present you with a video of Billie the elephant. The video is simple, yet chances are it’ll leave you grinning for long. Read moreRam temple trust on Covid shadow, gifts for Mandir | Ayodhya Ground ReportAhead of the extravagant foundation-laying of the new Ram temple in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya, Hindustan Times national political editor Sunetra Choudhury spoke to Prakash Sharma, an official of the Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust, which is overseeing the construction of the shrine. Read moreBihar DGP says Rs 50 cr withdrawn from Sushant Singh Rajput’s account, asks Mumbai Police ‘why such leads are hushed up’Bihar Director General of Police (DGP) Gupteshwar Pandey has accused the Mumbai Police of not investigating the financial angle in the death of Sushant Singh Rajput. Read moreSnapchat to take on TikTok with its upcoming music-powered featureSnapchat is all set to take on TikTok with the announcement of a new feature that will allow Snapchat users set their Snaps to music - just like TikTok does. Read moreRSS affiliate wants BCCI to reconsider IPL’s Chinese sponsorship dealsThe Swadeshi Jagran Manch (SJM), an affiliate of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) has demanded that BCCI must reconsider the decision to allow Chinese phone makers Vivo to sponsor IPL given the strain in India-China ties following the standoff at the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pakistan-violates-ceasefire-in-j-k-s-poonch-district-and-all-the-latest-news/story-o4spiMRKtiPyQhRmq3yx0N.html
04-08-2020||India||Pakistan violates ceasefire in Krishna Ghati sector of J&K’s Poonch, heavy shelling in Mendhar||Pakistan violated ceasefire in Krishna Ghati sector of Poonch district in Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday morning. The unprovoked ceasefire violation was initiated along the LoC by firing with small arms and shelling mortars in the area. The Indian Army retaliated to the ceasefire. Heavy shelling continues in Dabraj area of Mankote sector in Mendhar, Jammu and Kashmir.This comes days after an Army jawan lost his life in a ceasefire violation by Pakistan along the LoC in Rajouri sector of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday. Also read: Curfew ordered in Jammu-Kashmir’s Srinagar till August 5 over intel reports of ‘violent protests’Sepoy Rohin Kumar sustained serious injuries during the ceasefire and later succumbed to death. “Pakistan Army resorted to unprovoked ceasefire violation on the line of control (LoC) in Rajouri Sector. Own troops responded strongly to the enemy fire. In the incident, Sep Rohin Kumar was critically injured and later succumbed to his injuries,” the official statement read. “Sep Rohin Kumar was a brave, highly motivated and sincere soldier. The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-violates-ceasefire-in-krishna-ghati-sector-of-j-k-s-poonch-heavy-shelling-in-mendhar/story-0MVy2SQofrZPRCSol7dveP.html
04-08-2020||India||Former Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah tests positive for Covid-19||Former Karnataka chief minister and Congress leader Siddaramaiah said he has tested positive for Covid-19. Taking to Twitter, Siddaramaiah said he has been admitted to the hospital on medical advice and urged all those who recently got in touch with him to monitor their symptoms. “I have been tested positive for #Covid19 & also been admitted to the hospital on the advice of doctors as a precaution. I request all those who had come in contact with me to check out for symptoms & to quarantine themselves,” his tweet read. This comes a day after Congress MP Karti Chidambaram tested positive for Covid-19.  Also read: Amid rising Covid-19 cases, Parliament’s Monsoon session may get pushed to SeptI have been tested positive for #Covid19 & also been admitted to the hospital on the advice of doctors as a precaution.I request all those who had come in contact with me to check out for symptoms & to quarantine themselves.“I have just tested positive for #Covid. My symptoms are mild and as per medical advice I am under home quarantine. I would urge all those who have recently been in contact with me to follow medical protocol,” Karti tweeted on Monday.On Sunday, Union home minister Amit Shah and Karnataka chief minister BS Yeddyurappa were the two big leaders who said they have contracted the virus. “After showing initial symptoms, I underwent a test for coronavirus and the report came out positive. My health is fine but I am being admitted to the hospital on the advice of doctors,” Shah had tweeted.Yediyurappa took to Twitter and shared about his health. His daughter, BY Padmavati, is also reported to have contracted the disease.“I have tested positive for coronavirus. Whilst I am fine, I am being hospitalised as a precaution on the recommendation of doctors. I request those who have come in contact with me recently to be observant and exercise self-quarantine,” the Karnataka CM tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-karnataka-chief-minister-siddaramaiah-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-Iej3TpUabTbiJI1NRtQjhN.html
04-08-2020||India||Negligence led to spike in Covid-19 cases: Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan||As Kerala struggles with a fresh wave of the coronavirus disease cases, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday said there was negligence on part of everyone. There has been a steep hike in new Covid-19 cases in the last two weeks; on Monday, the state reported 962 new cases and two deaths.Vijayan said there was strict vigil in initial stages and results were really encouraging but gradually people lowered their guard which resulted in big spike in cases. The CM said this while launching 100-odd family health centres across the state through video conference.He later clarified that his criticism was not aimed at healthcare workers who are toiling day in and out but about the general perception of the people. Vijayan said it took more than five months for the state to reach 10,000 cases but less than three weeks to cross 25,000. He also took a dig at the Opposition saying it was more interested in toppling the ongoing drive against the pandemic.“In first stage, we effectively dealt with the situation. After this, some sort of laxity crept in. Some people thought it is only the duty of the government machinery. This attitude cost us dearly,” he said. The chief minister said that those who violated quarantine will be dealt with heavily and police will be given more powers to deal with them.But the Opposition said it was happy that the chief minister at least admitted to his lapses, even if it came at the eleventh hour. “When we cited pitfalls he said we were sabotaging the ongoing drive. The state’s testing rate is still poor,” said Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. Meanwhile, Kerala reported 962 new cases taking the total to 26,872. Out of these, 15,282 have recovered and 11,484 are active cases. With two more casualties, the state’s death toll rose to 86 on Monday. There are 506 containment zones in the state and capital Thiruvananthapuram topped the list with one-third of the active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/negligence-led-to-spike-in-covid-19-cases-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan/story-ypiZwvi5jjHMBsGmKmrPSL.html
04-08-2020||India||Rescue, treatment and release of animals an annual ritual in Assam’s Kaziranga during floods||Every year as the annual floods hit Assam, the plight of wild animals of Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR) also hit the headlines with the focus on the number of fatalities. Apart from the deaths caused by flooding and vehicle hit while the animals cross the national highway adjoining the park to reach higher locations, dozens of residents of the park spread across 430 sq km are rescued by teams of forest personnel and wildlife veterinarians. “This year, six teams that include forest personnel and veterinarians were involved in rescuing animals during the floods. The size of the team depends on the size of the animal needed to be rescued. For a tiger rescue, as many as 100 people or more are involved,” said P Sivakumar, director, KNPTR. This year, 172 animals including 3 rhinos, 4 tigers, 120 hog deer, 31 pythons and 4 king cobras have been rescued from in and around the park during floods. The season had witnessed 150 animal deaths including 18 rhinos (12 due to drowning) and 105 hog deer. Also read: Baby rhino rescued in Kaziranga National Park, efforts underway to find its motherFloodwaters have started receding in the park, the biggest habitat of endangered one-horned rhinos, and at present nearly 50 percent of its area is submerged. But work hasn’t stopped for the rescue teams. On Sunday, a 3-4 days old female rhino calf, which got separated from its mother, was rescued from the park’s central range. It is being treated at the Centre for Wildlife Rehabilitation and Conservation (CWRC), the only facility of its kind in India where orphaned or injured wild animals are hand-raised or treated before returning them to the wild. “The calf is distressed and dehydrated and we are trying to feed it milk formula. Since it’s very small, its health is critical. Efforts are underway to locate the mother and reunite the calf with her,” said Rathin Barman, in-charge of CWRC. This is the second rhino calf rescued during this year during floods. Both the animals, including the five calves rescued during last year’s floods, are staying at CWRC’s facility located at Borjuri close to KNPTR. Till date, of the 172 animals rescued during this year’s floods, 149 have been treated and released back into the wild while 17 had died on arrival or during treatment. Six animals including 2 rhinos, 3 hog deer and a king cobra are still under treatment. “Rescuing a wild animal always involves some risks as it not used to human presence. Some of us have got injured as well during rescues. Once the animal comes out of the park, chances of it getting injured increases and there’s the issue of crowd management as well,” said Panjit Basumataray, wildlife veterinarian at CWRC. Officials of KNPTR and CWRC informed that this year, the number of rescues have been less than previous floods due to awareness campaign among villagers living on the park’s periphery on allowing animals that stray out of the park to reach higher locations or return to the park on their own.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rescue-treatment-and-release-of-animals-an-annual-ritual-in-assam-s-kaziranga-during-floods/story-QoGbx5Begwf4hQlFpLfw8I.html
04-08-2020||India||Covid-19: What you need to know today||The charts say it all. Accompanying this column are eight charts, all data sourced from worldometers.info, of the daily new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and the number of active cases for four European countries – Spain, France, Germany, and Italy. And they tell a story. Spain is definitely seeing what looks like the beginning of a second wave. Spain’s seven-day average of daily new cases (according to the New York Times database; all the seven-day averages are from it) as on August 2, was around 2,300. It was around 700 on July 15, and nearly 370 on July 1. The number is still just a fourth of the peaks the country saw in April, but it is rising. The country has in excess of 110,000 active cases.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageFrance, which has a little over 75,000 active cases, is also seeing what looks like a second wave (although it isn’t as marked as Spain’s). Its seven-day average of daily new cases has increased from around 550 in mid-July to almost 1,500 in early August (it was in the mid-400s for much of June, but then started climbing).Germany and Italy present a contrasting picture.The first has just around 8,200 active cases currently, and there is no perceptible second wave in the country, despite the rise in number of daily cases in recent days. Its current seven-day average of daily new cases is a little under 700, almost double the 350 it was in mid-July (it was almost 500 in late June).The second, Italy, has just about 12,000 active cases, and it too isn’t showing a clear second wave. Its current seven-day average of daily new cases is around 280, a little higher than the roughly-200 level it was at in mid-July (it was around 250 in late June).Also read: Anxious WHO implores world to ‘do it all’ in long war on Covid-19In both these countries, though, the increase in daily cases is worrying because it could, just as it has in Spain and France, result in a second wave (however small) if the reasons behind the rise in infections are not addressed.None of these countries is like the US, where the clear second wave that has been evident since mid-June has been driven, largely, by infections in regions that were hitherto unaffected, or little affected, by the pandemic (even as some states that believed they had the disease under control are seeing a recurrence of infections).The reason for the resurgence of the disease in Spain and France, and to a much lesser extent, in Germany and Italy, is that they opened up some time back, albeit with rules related to social distancing and the wearing of masks – which many people, especially the young, are flouting (it is summer after all, in Europe, what would have been peak holiday season if not for the pandemic) . According to a report in The Wall Street Journal, there is a higher incidence of the virus among young people in France, an increase in the number of young people being infected and hospitalised in Spain, and a lowering of the median age of new infections in July in Italy.The article quotes a 23-year old student in Paris: “We were being careful at first, and then not so much.” It adds: “…younger Europeans say they are tired of maintaining rigorous social distancing...”Or, as I wrote in Dispatch 87 (and it is definitely worth repeating in the larger interest): “So, bored, tired, lonely perhaps, and physically, mentally, and emotionally weary, we let things slip. And the virus wins.”Sometimes, that’s all it takes to start a second wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-what-you-need-to-know-today/story-g4uf0uHl6DbZhcppnOrV6N.html
04-08-2020||India||No compromise on territorial integrity, says India in 5th round of military talks with China||The Indian army has categorically conveyed to China’s PLA at the fifth round of military talks it will not compromise on India’s territorial integrity, and clearly said disengagement of troops from Pangong Tso and a few other friction points in eastern Ladakh should be completed at the earliest, people familiar with the developments said on Monday. Senior commanders of the two armies held intense negotiations for nearly 11 hours on Sunday at a designated meeting point in Moldo on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC).Also read: India-China expand border talks, to revisit patrolling protocol to avoid skirmishes The Indian delegation very clearly and firmly communicated to the Chinese side that restoration of status quo ante in all areas of eastern Ladakh was key for overall ties between the two countries, and that Beijing must ensure complete disengagement of its troops from the remaining friction points, according to the people familiar with the developments. It was also categorically conveyed that the Indian army will not compromise on the country’s territorial integrity, they said. The Chinese army has pulled back from Galwan Valley and certain other areas but the withdrawal of troops has not moved forward from the Finger Four and Eight areas in Pangong Tso as demanded by India. The mountain spurs in the area are referred to as Fingers. China also has not completed withdrawal of troops from Gogra areas. The focus of the Sunday talks was on finalising the modalities for further de-escalation, and disengagement of troops from various friction points, sources said, adding both sides were to discuss details of the negotiations with their respective military and political leadership.Also read: Finger Area in focus as India, China hold talks The sources said Army Chief Gen MM Naravane was given a detailed briefing about the talks on Monday morning which was subsequently followed by a discussion he held with senior military officials on the overall situation in eastern Ladakh. It is learnt that National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar were also apprised about the talks, and the entire military and strategic brass tasked to deal with the border row is deliberating on various aspects of the overall situation. The Indian delegation was led by Lt Gen Harinder Singh, the commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps, while the Chinese side was headed by Major General Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang military region. The previous round of the Corps Commander-level talks took place on the Indian side of the LAC on July 14 and it lasted for nearly 15 hours. There was no official word on details of the meeting. The military talks took place 10 days after both sides held another round of diplomatic parleys on the border issue. After the diplomatic talks, the Ministry of External Affairs(MEA) said both sides agreed that an early and complete disengagement of the troops along the LAC in accordance with bilateral agreement and protocols was essential for the overall development of bilateral relations. Last week, India rebutted China’s claim that the disengagement process was completed at most locations. “There has been some progress made towards this objective but the disengagement process has as yet not been completed,” MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said when asked about China’s claim. In the last three weeks, India has significantly ramped up troops and weaponry in the areas around Daulat Beg Oldi (DBO) and Depsang Valley in commensurate with deployment of troops by China’s People’s Liberation Army(PLA). During the military and diplomatic talks, India has also been demanding withdrawal of Chinese troops from Depsang, the area where they had intruded in 2013. The transgressions had created military and diplomatic tensions but was resolved after hectic rounds of negotiations following which the Chinese troops withdrew. India began sending reinforcements to Depsang and the areas around DBO in mid-May when tension between the two sides gradually escalated, and the deployment has been significantly ramped up with several thousand troops, tanks and artillery guns in the last two months, sources said. The formal process of disengagement of troops began on July 6, a day after a nearly two-hour telephonic conversation between NSA Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on ways to bring down tension in the face-off points. The first round of the Lt General talks was held on June 6 during which both sides finalised an agreement to disengage gradually from all the standoff points beginning with Galwan Valley. However, the situation deteriorated following the Galwan Valley clashes on June 15 in which 20 Indian Army personnel were killed as the two sides significantly bolstered their deployments in most areas along the LAC. The Chinese side also suffered casualties in the clashes but it is yet to give out the details. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35. The second round of military talks took place on June 22. At the third round of military talks on June 30, both sides agreed on an “expeditious, phased and step wise” de-escalation as a “priority” to end the standoff. Following the Galwan Valley incident, the government has given the armed forces “full freedom” to give a “befitting” response to any Chinese misadventure along the LAC. The Indian Air Force(IAF) has also moved air defence systems as well as a sizable number of its frontline combat jets and attack helicopters to several key air bases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-compromise-on-territorial-integrity-says-india-in-5th-round-of-military-talks-with-china/story-U05cqPj0YBmhJmpeLiSP6M.html
04-08-2020||India||Serum Institute gets nod for Oxford vaccine trials||India’s drug controller on Monday gave approval to Pune-based vaccine manufacturer Serum Institute of India (SII) for conducting phase II and III clinical trials on the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca, according to the Union health ministry. The trials are likely to begin within the week, according to people aware of the matter. This would make the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine – called Covishield – the first one to enter phase II and III trials in India. Phase I human trials have started on two indigenously developed vaccines — Bharat Biotech International Ltd’s Covaxin and Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D — to assess their safety. The company has already bet big on the vaccine working — investing up to $450 million in mass-producing the vaccine. SII declined to comment on the regulatory approval for it to conduct the trials.Four other vaccine candidates being supported by the Department of Biotechnology (DBT) under the science ministry are in advanced stages of pre-clinical trials and are likely to enter human trials in another four to six weeks. Confirming the development, a senior official in the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) said: “The subject expert committee that went through the data and protocol submitted for the trial was satisfied with the results, and based on their opinion the drugs controller permitted its trial in India.” Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIt was always understood that India’s drug regulator would approve the clinical trials once Oxford University, once, on July 20, Oxford University published research that showed that the initial trial results of the vaccine candidate were promising.The vaccine candidate is safe and induced an immune reaction against Sars-CoV-2, the virus that causes the coronavirus disease, and protects healthy people from infection, it said in the journal The Lancet.Dr G C Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonology at All India Institute of Medical Sciences, said: “The Oxford vaccine is one of the most promising candidates so far and India being one of the largest vaccine manufacturers, this is a welcome move. A vaccine is needed and fast. We are nowhere close to controlling the infection. Now, the numbers have started going up in the tier-2 and tier-3 cities and every day we are seeing an increasing number of cases....There is a resurgence of cases in many places that had controlled the spread. So, we need a vaccine that is safe, effective and provides long-lasting immunity to go back to normal.”The study whose results were published in The Lancet were conducted on 1,077 healthy adults aged 18-55 years with no history of Covid-19 in five UK hospitals between April 23 and May 21. The data that was published covered the first 56 days of the trials that are ongoing. “By now, we have vaccinated about 10,000 people in the UK phase 3 trial at 19 sites, soon 4,000 people in Brazil and in a couple of weeks in South Africa will also be given the candidate vaccine. And most importantly, a trial in the United States will start in the next few weeks with 30,000 people. This is going to be over 50,000 people by the time we finish,” said Prof. Adrian Hill at a symposium organised by the Indian Council of Medical Research on Thursday. He is the director of Oxford’s Jenner Institute that is collaborating with the British-Swedish biopharmaceutical company AstraZeneca. The vaccine is made from a weakened version of a common cold adenovirus taken from chimpanzees and genetically modified so that it cannot infect humans. To develop the vaccine, researchers added genetic material to the adenovirus from the Sars-CoV-2 virus’ surface protein, spike glycoprotein (S), which helps the virus to bind to ACE2 receptor to enter human cells and cause an infection. “This was one of the first vaccine candidates to enter phase III trials in late May. And one of the reasons it was possible was because it is a type of vaccine that we already know a lot about. Over 60,000 people have already been vaccinated with investigational adenoviral vaccines. We were able to go ahead quickly because of that safety database on the vaccine platform,” said Prof. Hill. Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer by volume, is one of the nine global manufacturers of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine. “We do not know when we will get the results – depending on the instance of the disease at various places , it can be next month or it can be six months. This is a lot of uncertainty for our manufacturers. And, we have taken a risk collectively to engage manufacturers in nine countries,” Prof. Hill said. The company plans to start human clinical trials in India with about 5,000 participants. “One billion doses of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine will be produced over the next one year. The vaccines will be for India and middle-and-low-income countries across the world,” Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer, SII, had earlier said. Dr Vinod Paul, who chairs one of the National Task Forces on Covid-19 management in India, said: “India is one of the vaccine hubs globally, and wherever the Covid vaccine is developed we will take lead in its manufacturing. Vaccine is the ultimate solution to prevent Covid transmission even though India has managed to control the outbreak very well so far.” To ensure that Phase III trials can start on vaccines that are in advanced preclinical or in early clinical stages, the department of biotechnology has already created five trial sites across the country and is working on preparing six more. Each of the trial sites will provide access to cohorts of 50,000 to 100,000 people . The sites are INCLEN Trust International, Haryana; KEM Vadu, Pune; Christian Medical College, Vellore; Society for Health Allied Research Education (SHARE), Hyderabad; and National Institute of Epidemiology, Tirunelveli.. “At this moment, I am unsure whether these trial sites are part of the approval for SII. However, the sites are ready for SII or any other company to start Phase III trials immediately. This will, of course, be the first Phase III trial to happen in India. The other two indigenously developed vaccines – one by Zydus Cadila that is supported by DBT – are in Phase I and II. This would ideally take between 45 days to two months and a while for data analysis. Depending on the data, they will begin their Phase III trials soon after,” said Dr Renu Swarup, secretary, DBT.The other two are undergoing merged phase 1 and II trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serum-institute-gets-nod-for-oxford-vaccine-trials/story-AEmGtKlevoPF6JDddfihyJ.html
04-08-2020||India||Economic recovery hits July plateau, shows data||The rate-setting Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) will begin a two-day meeting on Tuesday amid mounting evidence that India’s nascent economic recovery is at risk of plateauing out as new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections pile up.Most high-frequency indicators for July suggest that not only was economic activity in July slower than the year-ago level, but that even a sequential recovery seen in May and June may have been interrupted. Experts believe that this may be a result of the exhaustion of pent-up demand created by lockdown restrictions in April and May. This has also raised concern that the economy could take longer than expected to come back to pre-pandemic levels. According to a Reuters poll of economists, the Indian economy may be in a contraction mode till the December quarter.  The IHS Markit India Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) for manufacturing went down from 47.2 in June to 46 in July. A PMI value below 50 signals a contraction in economic activity. Services PMI numbers, which had taken a bigger hit due to the lockdown, for the month of July will be released on Tuesday. Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection in July fell to ₹87,422 crore after rising to ₹90,917 crore in June. On a year-on-year basis, the July collections were 14.3% lower. State-owned refiners’ diesel sales, which, according to a Reuters report, account for two-fifths of overall sales in India, fell by 13% to 4.85 million tonnes in July from the previous month, and by about 21% from a year earlier. Some high-frequency indicators suggest a plateauing rather than a worsening of economic activity. The weekly Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI) was flat between the week ended July 26 (70.3) and August 2 (70.4). “Overall, the NIBRI has remained stuck at 30 percentage points below pre-pandemic levels for the month of July, although it has improved by 2.7 percentage points from June levels”, Nomura’s chief India economist Sonal Varma said in a research note. Click here for full Covid-19 coverageTo be sure, domestic car sales, often used as a key indicator of demand and consumer confidence, showed a spike in July. Maruti Suzuki, India’s largest carmaker, reported an 88% increase in sales over June and a 1.3% rise over July 2019. These numbers are of Maruti’s sales to dealers and do not reflect sales to customers. Overall, because of the decline in exports, the company’s sales declined 1.1% over last July. These numbers failed to generate enthusiasm. Maruti Suzuki’s share price fell by 1.5% on Monday. “The Street’s reaction to the auto numbers shows that investors are not quite convinced that demand will persist,” said a Mint report. As new infections continue to surge and many states impose ad-hoc lockdowns, there is growing concern that the Indian economy may be headed for a longer period of contraction than was initially expected. “GDP growth in 2020-21 is estimated to remain in negative territory, with some pick-up in growth impulses from H2: 2020-21 (October) onwards,” RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said after the previous MPC meeting on May 22, 2020. The consensus estimates among economists is that the Indian economy will shrink by at least 5% in 2020-21.  Most economists who participated in the Reuters poll said the economy could contract by 20% in the June quarter and remain in negative territory until the December quarter. The continuing weakness in aggregate demand is likely to lead to another rate cut by 25 basis points, the poll says. One basis point is one hundredth of a percentage point. The MPC has already cut policy rates by 115 basis points since March.Further rate cuts may not be of much help, according to some experts. “To avoid further supply disruption, viable firms may need to be kept afloat with adequate credit; but the banking system, unfortunately, is rather risk-averse, and may not fully oblige,” Pranjul Bhandari,chief India economist at HSBC Securities and Capital Markets Private Limited, wrote in a research note on July 31. Credit disbursal data supports this view. Annual growth in non-food credit has fallen continuously for seven fortnights to 5.6%, the lowest since May 2017, according to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy’s (CMIE) database. Even agriculture, which was being seen as a key factor in generating tailwinds for economic recovery, may not be able to provide the much-needed boost, according to experts.“Green shoots of the Indian economy are unlikely to grow until they are watered with fiscal stimulus measures that create broad demand for agricultural commodities. This will require a massive increase in fiscal spending, not just to maintain agricultural incomes through increases in procurement and subsidies, but also to boost non-farm sectors that could act as strong demand generators for the agricultural sector,” Himanshu, an associate professor of economics at Jawaharlal Nehru University, wrote in his latest Mint column. To be sure, the government has been signalling that the process of economic recovery may take longer than initially expected.  “Prime Minister Narendra Modi is getting regular feedback on the economic situation and the government is keeping all options open to facilitate a faster economic recovery...Even so, the government is cautious about overstating the green shoots of a recovery visible in the economy,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman told journalists on Saturday while announcing an extension of the emergency credit facility to private professionals such as doctors and chartered accountants. Last week, revenue secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey told the parliamentary standing committee on finance that the government may not be in a position to pay compensation to states this year for a shortfall in GST collection. The centre’s fiscal deficit in the quarter ending June has reached 83% of the full-year budget, much higher than the five-year average of 60%, according to a research note by Samiran Chakraborty, chief economist, India, at Citigroup Global Markets India Private Limited. This happened even as spending by 13 out of top 20 ministries (by budgeted expenditure) fell in the June quarter by at least 30% on an annual basis, the note said. The 13% jump in total expenditure in the June quarter was primarily the result of a sharp jump in the ministry of finance’s spending, which included a transfer of ₹36,400 crore of GST compensation and some Covid disaster relief to states, the note added. With the economic situation and revenue outlook continuing to be grim, a clamour for fiscal support over and above monetary policy measures is likely to increase. In an opinion piece published in The Hindu, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and Congress leader Praveen Chakravarthy argued that India should make “full use of loan programmes of international institutions such as the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank” and only “adopt deficit monetisation as the last resort when all other options are exhausted”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/economic-recovery-hits-july-plateau-shows-data/story-6NCbY5bhiMjSj8Dseyx2hL.html
04-08-2020||India||Rituals begin as Ayodhya counts down to August 5||Ayodhya At 9.30am on Monday with the chanting of Vedic hymns, a group of 21 Hindu priests began a holy ceremony that will culminate with Prime Minister Narendra Modi laying the foundation stone of the Ram temple in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya town two days later, marking a key milestone as a 135-year conflict that sparked riots and left thousands dead heads towards closure. The two-hour Gauri Ganesh Puja, in honour of Hindu god Ganesh, was helmed by Vanarasi-based priest, Jai Prakash Upadhyay, as the Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust, which is overseeing the temple’s construction, confirmed that 175 guests were invited for Wednesday’s ceremony. Also read: ‘His blessings first’: Why Ayodhya’s Hanumangarhi temple is PM Modi’s first stop“Before any auspicious work, lord Ganesh is worshipped. So, before the construction of Ram Mandir, this ritual was performed,” said Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, designated successor to Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, the temple trust chief. The 175 guests include top politicians, religious leaders, Hindu seers and eminent people from Ayodhya town. Ahead of the ceremony, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath visited the Ram Janmabhoomi site with senior officials to review preparations. He also went to the Hanuman Garhi temple, where Modi is expected to offer prayers before the ceremony on Wednesday.“It is not only a historic but also an emotional moment as after 500 years the Ram temple work will start. It will be the foundation of a new India,” Adityanath told reporters. The temple trust released the main invitation for the ceremony that listed PM Modi, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat, Adityanath and UP governor Anandiben Patel as guests. The invitation, which had an image of Ram Lalla, or infant Ram, on the obverse, was issued in the name of Mahant Nritya Gopal Das. “Sacred soil from more than 2000 teerth sthan [pilgrim spots] and water from more than 100 rivers has been brought to Ayodhya for Bhumi Pujan,” the trust tweeted. The coronavirus pandemic, which has claimed 16 lives in Ayodhya, has cast a shadow on the ceremony. On Monday, Prem Kumar Tiwari — part of the team that conducts the daily rituals at the existing makeshift temple — was found infected by the virus, confirmed head priest Satyendra Das. Just last week, another junior priest and four more staff were infected. “Of course it is worrying,’’ Das said over the phone. “We all stay in the same area in the temple. I also have some other conditions and I’m not a young man,’’ added the 82-year-old. The pandemic has forced authorities to keep invitees to a minimum but senior officials were confident of Covid protocols and social distancing guidelines being followed. We have tested a large number of people and we are taking all precautions. I don’t think this event has any risks at all,’’ said a senior district official who didn’t want to be named.The state government appealed to people to remain indoors and not travel to the temple site. “Covid-19 protocol will be strictly followed at the event. As the Prime Minister will be here representing 135 crore people, I appeal that only those who have been invited should visit Ayodhya. The rest should remain at their respective places,” Adityanath said, adding no laxity will be allowed.Two leaders who were an integral part of the Ram temple movement – former deputy prime minister LK Advani and former education minister MM Joshi --- will not be there. The decision was taken keeping in mind their advanced age and the threat of the coronavirus disease, trust general secretary Champat Rai said in a press conference.Also read: In Ayodhya, another priest tests Covid-19 positive, head priest says he’s worried ”We didn’t invite those over 90. How could Parasaran ji [K Parasaran, the lead counsel for the Hindu side in the Supreme Court] come from Chennai? How could Advaniji come from Delhi in these corona times?’’ he said. The city, roughly 130km from Lucknow, is cloaked in security with 4,000 security personnel manning the site and 75 check posts blocking approach roads. The district borders will be sealed from Monday night. “Over 300 police personnel, who are younger, fit and healthy as well as tested negative for Covid-19 infection, have already been handpicked for deployment in VVIP security,” said a senior police official on condition of anonymity. Still, it is not a dampener on enthusiasm among local residents with people saying they will light earthen lamps at home and participate in small-scale rituals in every neighbourhood to mark the building of the temple. The city has been decked with 150,000 lamps, many buildings sport a fresh coat of paint and murals from the epic Ramayana on walls, and evenings are dedicated to chants of hymns in praise of Ram. As many as 5,100 urns will be decorated by local artists and placed on the road that Modi will travel on.“Lot of activity is going on in Ayodhya. Many projects are underway. We are hopeful that Ram Mandir will also bring development to Ayodhya,” said Satyendra Gupta, 32.Political opposition to the temple has been muted in recent years with leaders of the Congress party laying claim to the legacy of the temple movement. “The foundation stone has already been laid, Rajiv Gandhi ji did it,” senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh said on Monday. In 1986, the then Congress government had allowed the locks of the disputed structure to be opened and in 1989, allowed a ceremony to take place adjacent to the site. Elsewhere, Madhya Pradesh Congress chief Kamal Nath said he will lead party workers in reciting the Hanuman Chalisa on Tuesday and the party-led Chhattisgarh government announced development of three separate tourist circuits linked with Ram’s exile.The temple’s groundbreaking ceremony marks the beginning of the end of a religious dispute that dates back to 1885, when a Hindu priest petitioned the local court to build a temple where the 16th-century Babri Masjid stood. Religious tensions, simmering since Ram idols appeared under the central dome of the mosque in 1949, exploded on December 6, 1992 when thousands of Kar sevaks, or Hindu religious volunteers, scaled the mosque and demolished it. A political upheaval ensued that resulted in the dismissal of the state government even as a wave of communal riots swept India, killing thousands. The government took control of the site and surrounding areas and the battle for the site moved from the streets to the courts.The construction of the temple was cleared in a landmark verdict by the Supreme Court last year in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid title suit. A five-judge bench of the apex court awarded the 2.77 acre disputed site to the representative of Ram Lalla and instructed the Centre to set up a trust to oversee the construction of a temple. It also gave the main Muslim litigant, the UP Sunni Central Waqf Board, five acres of land at an alternative site in the district for a mosque. A separate criminal suit for the mosque demolition – where Advani and Joshi are accused – is being heard by a special Central Bureau of Investigation court, which completed recording statements of all 32 accused people on July 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rituals-begin-as-ayodhya-counts-down-to-august-5/story-eZNyLYSktBsMzBffEpIruO.html
04-08-2020||India||Calls grow for Rahul Gandhi’s return at helm||With Sonia Gandhi set to complete her one-year tenure as interim Congress president on August 10, and the party showing no signs of putting in place a mechanism to elect its next leader, some sections of the party have started demanding that Rahul Gandhi return to the post he gave up in May 2019, owning responsibility for the party’s rout in the general elections. The demands came in three meetings: the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on June 23; at Sonia Gandhi’s deliberations with the party’s Lok Sabha members on July 11; and during her interaction with the party’s Rajya Sabha MPs on July 30.Also read: ‘Proud to have such a brother’: Priyanka’s emotional message for Rahul on Raksha BandhanTo be sure, not everyone in the party has made the demand or supported it. One Congress leader said on condition of anonymity that he sees it as the responsibility of Rahul Gandhi to assuage the concerns of both veterans and members of the young brigade because there is visible unease between the two groups over the leadership issue and their future in the party. His reference is to the long-simmering conflict between the party’s old guard and its younger members -- which came to fore most recently during Sonia Gandhi’s meeting with Rajya Sabha MPs.While Sonia Gandhi is not keen to continue in the post, Rahul Gandhi has not shown any inclination to take up the responsibility. “But circumstances can change any time,” the leader added. The demand has also come from outside the Congress. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar last week suggested that Rahul Gandhi should take up the Congress president’s post, start a conversation with party leaders and workers, and undertake a nationwide “yatra” to galvanise the Congress cadre and reconnect with the people who have moved away from the grand old party over the years. Pawar’s views were echoed by senior Congress leaders and Rajya Sabha members Digvijaya Singh and Partap Singh Bajwa. “I agree. He (Rahul Gandhi) is different and wants to do politics differently. We should allow him to do so but then we also would like him to be more active in Parliament and more accessible to people. As advised by Sharad Pawar he should travel around India. Yatras are important to connect,” Singh tweeted on Saturday. Bajwa said Rahul Gandhi should first become the Congress president and then tour the country. “I request the Congress president to settle the leadership issue once and for all. The issue has to be tackled anyway otherwise we are ceding ground to the BJP every day.” Bajwa said it was the “relentless campaign” carried out by Rahul Gandhi in Punjab, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh that ensured the party’s victories in these states and even Gujarat, where he brought the Congress within the striking distance of ousting the BJP from power. One of the architect’s of the party’s Madhya Pradesh win, Jyotiraditya Scindia has left the party for the BJP, after he was marginalised in the state and the party’s central leadership chose not to intervene. Legislators allied with him resigned from the party too -- causing the collapse of the Kamal Nath government. More recently, Sachin Pilot, credited with having played a significant role in the party’s win in Rajasthan, and lawmakers loyal to him have broken ranks with the party over differences with chief minister Ashok Gehlot, although they haven’t left the party. The development has left the Gehlot government with a wafer-thin majority. Experts said the clamour for Gandhi’s ascendancy to President once again highlights the fact that the party does not want to take the tougher route of holding elections and finding a new leader from outside the Nehru-Gandhi family. Hyderabad-based political analyst C Narasimha Rao said, “Many Congress leaders do not want internal elections as they are comfortable with the nomination process and hence push for the easy route. Also, the Gandhi family does not want to give up the control of the party though some argue that it is the only binding force.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/calls-grow-for-rahul-s-return-at-helm/story-Ye1yzBoTvfh2wuvjnlhOKO.html
04-08-2020||India||In Ayodhya, hymns and pujas at every corner||Eight priests from Ayodhya, five each from Varanasi and Delhi and three from Tamil Nadu performed the Gauri Ganesh Puja at the Ram Janmabhoomi site on Monday morning, marking the beginning of three-day Vedic rituals ahead of the foundation-laying ceremony. Jai Prakash Upadhyay, a priest from Varanasi, presided over the ceremony. “The ceremony began with Gauri Ganesh puja as per Hindu tradition. Before any auspicious work, lord Ganesh is worshipped. So, before construction of Ram Mandir, this ritual was performed,” said Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, successor designate of Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, the temple trust chief. “Ganesh puja continued for two hours. On Tuesday Ramacharya puja will be performed,” added Das. The site was decorated with saffron flags marigold flowers and the rituals were performed at the place where the sanctum sanctorum of the proposed Ram temple will come up. Special puja was also performed at the existing makeshift temple. “Apart from routine puja, special ‘arti’ of Ram was performed,” added Das. The rituals happened under a giant water-proof pandal. “In all temples, big and small, across Ayodhya, special puja was performed, said Das. In the evening, festivities began as temples and houses across the city were decorated with earthen lamps and rangolis. Local residents thronged to the Naya Ghat on the banks of the Saryu river that shimmered under the light. All roads are being regularly cleaned by a 500-people strong team of sanitation workers. Murals and images depicting scenes from the Ramayana have been drawn on the main roads and buildings have been painted yellow. “Yellow is an auspicious colour. In Hindu tradition, yellow is used in all ceremonies. It symbolises purity and light,” said Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, successor-designate to Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, chairman of the trust. Local residents said they were enjoying the facelift Ayodhya had received. “Ayodhya has donned an altogether new look. It is also because of Prime Minister’s arrival for bhumi pujan of Ram Mandir,” said Rajan Patel, 30. His friends, Satyendra Gupta, 32, hoped for development projects. “A lot of activity is going on in Ayodhya. Many projects are underway. We are hopeful that Ram Mandir will also bring development to Ayodhya,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-ayodhya-hymns-and-pujas-at-every-corner/story-O97uNb9cL3LVfloMQgQeUJ.html
04-08-2020||India||Lord Ram’s will that I attend ceremony: Title suit litigant||The son of the oldest litigant in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid title suit, a Padma Shri awardee and the chairman of the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board (UPSCWB) are three Muslim invitees among the 175 guests attending the foundation-laying ceremony of the Ram temple on Wednesday. The first invitee is Iqbal Ansari, 69, son of Hashim Ansari who died at of 95 in 2016 after which the son started pursuing the case in the top court. The second is 80-year-old Mohammad Sharif, who is known across the state for his work in holding final rites for at least 5,000 unclaimed Hindu and Muslim people. The third is Zufar Ahmed Faruqi, the chairman of the UPSCWB that was the main Muslim party in the title suit and the head of the 15-member trust that is helming the construction of a mosque at a five-acre site in Ayodhya district. “We have invited Iqbal Ansari and Mohammad Sharif from Ayodhya for bhumi pujan of Ram Mandir,” said Champat Rai, general secretary of the Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust. “Mohammad Sharif’s contribution to the society cannot is priceless. He has given respectful cremation or burial to unclaimed bodies in Ayodhya,” added Rai. A top state government official confirmed Faruqi’s invitation on condition of anonymity. Ansari welcomed the invitation. “I am delighted to be invited for bhumi pujan. Lord Ram and Ram Mandir will usher in development in Ayodhya,” said Ansari, who had opposed filing of a review petition to the Supreme Court’s 2019 verdict that cleared the way for the construction of the temple. “Our Prime Minister is coming. I will meet him and give him a ‘Ramnami’ stole (a piece of cloth with Ram’s name written on it) and Ramcharitmanas as a present,” Ansari added.“The dispute is over now after the court’s verdict. I respect sadhus and saints.. I think it is Lord Ram’s will that I attend it”.Sharif, a cycle mechanic popularly known as chacha (uncle), was awarded the Padma Shri, the country’s fourth-highest civilian award, this year and hit the headlines for his work in giving a respectable send-off to unclaimed bodies during the coronavirus pandemic. “I am very happy after receiving the invite. I am thankful to the PM and hope that Ram temple will also bring development in Ayodhya,” said Sharif. Faruqi’s spokesperson confirmed the invitation. ”Yes , the chairman has got an invite, ‘’ said Athar Hussain.In his press conference, Rai announced that the trust also invited Purnima Kothari, sister of two brothers from Kolkata who were kar sevaks, or Hindu religious volunteers, who died in police firing in Ayodhya on October 30, 1990 while on a procession to the 2.77 acre site. The trust also invited family members of local kar sevaks in Ayodhya who died in the firing. “We wanted to invite more Karsevaks. But due to pandemic we have only invited local Karsevaks and Purnima Kothari, sister of Kothari brother of Kolkata,” said Rai. The trust will felicitate the kar sevaks at another function — Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir Nirman Yajna —after the coronavirus pandemic, Rai added. He appealed to the kar sevaks to be patient. “In the Ram Mandir movement, a large number of kar sevaks contributed. They all want to come to Ayodhya for the bhumi pujan. We also wanted the same but due to the pandemic this is not possible at present,” said Rai. “But bhumi pujan by the PM is necessary to start the construction work of Ram Mandir.”(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lord-ram-s-will-that-i-attend-ceremony-title-suit-litigant/story-EkzzfhjNVN19yoW3F98atL.html
04-08-2020||India||In MP and Chhattisgarh, Congress tries to claim Ram legacy||The Congress is unwilling to allow the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to solely take credit for the Ram Temple construction in Ayodhya and has entrusted the job of countering its arch-rival on the issue to its leaders in Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, where Lord Ram is believed be have lived during his 14-year exile, functionaries aware of the matter said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to participate in the groundbreaking ceremony for the temple construction on August 5. A Supreme Court ruling in November ended a decades-old dispute and ordered that a Ram temple be built on the disputed Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid site in Ayodhya.Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath and Congress workers across the state plan to recite Hanuman Chalisa, or devotional hymn to Lord Ram’s companion Hanuman, on Tuesday. The Congress government in neighbouring Chhattisgarh has announced the development of three tourist circuits linked to Ram’s exile as part of the party’s attempt to claim his legacy.Nath on Monday said the country knows that late former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi was instrumental behind opening the locks of the disputed site in Ayodhya in 1985. He said Rajiv Gandhi gave his consent for laying a foundation stone for the temple in 1989. “In his first electoral speech in 1989, he [Rajiv Gandhi] talked about Ramrajya. This is all in the records. I wish to tell the young generation about this...,” Nath said. Nath earlier announced his participation in the Hanuman Chalisa recitation for the state’s“prosperity and happiness”.Bypolls to 27 assembly seats are due in Madhya Pradesh. They are crucial for BJP’s government’s survival in the state. The BJP has 107 legislators and needs to win at least nine of the 27 seats to reach the majority mark of 116 in the 230 member state assembly. The Congress, which won 114 assembly seats in the 2018 assembly elections, now has 89 seats. The resignations of 22 legislators in March brought down the Congress government in the state and paved the way for the BJP’s return to power.A Congress Parliament member, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the recital is being organised to also send out a message that it was Rajiv Gandhi, who was instrumental behind “what we are going to see on August 5, and that the BJP only drew political mileage from the issue”.Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel announced on Sunday construction of a “magnificent” temple dedicated to Lord Ram’s mother, Mata Kaushalya, in Raipur as well as the development of religious tourist circuits also covering Turturiya’s Valmiki Ashram. Lord Ram’s sons, Luv and Kush, are believed to have been born at the ashram.A 1,000-year-old Shiv Temple in Jagdalpur district, which Lord Ram is believed to have been established during the exile, will also be renovated, the Chhattisgarh government said in a statement on Monday.“The way Shri Ram had established ‘Shivling’ in Rameshwaram [Tamil Nadu] before leaving for Lanka, the same way he had established ‘Shivling’ at Rampal area of Chhattisgarh as well, before moving from Northern to Southern part of India, and had performed customary rituals there,” the statement said. The statement said Lord Ram spent some time of his exile in the forest of Turturiya.The projects related to Lord Ram will be part of Chhattisgarh government’s Ram Van Gaman Path Project (Ram Forest Travel Route) worth Rs 137.45 crore, the statement said. As part of the project’s first phase, nine of the 75 identified locations believed to have links with Lord Ram in the state will be developed and beautified.Baghel on Sunday said Mata Kaushalya was from Chhattisgarh and Lord Ram spent a significant amount of time during his 14-year-exile there. He said their initiatives would generate employment opportunities.Vijesh Lunawat, the state BJP vice-president in Madhya Pradesh, scoffed at the Congress’s attempts. “The country knows about the stand of the Congress and its leaders. Today, they are talking of Ram temple on seeing the massive sentiments of people across the country. It is better that they continue to practise the policy of [minority] appeasement that they have been practising for decades.”Political analyst Girija Shankar said Nath and Baghel’s announcements suggest a vacuum at the party’s central level. “In fact, any stand like this should be decided by the party’s central leadership which is not existing as it appears. Further, the Congress leaders in these states firmly believe that Congress won 2018 assembly elections because of their soft-Hindutva approach. They have failed to understand that it is because of the then BJP governments’ failure that Congress was voted to power in both the states. That is why the party leaders do not want to deviate from soft-Hindutva line.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-mp-and-c-garh-cong-tries-to-claim-ram-legacy/story-ilIVnc8hW9Qoo9h1yidqqN.html
04-08-2020||India||Wildlife nod not required for railway projects: Ministry||Railway projects, small-scale development works involving construction over less than 20,000 square metres, and under-25 MW capacity hydropower plants will not require approval from the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) even if they are located within eco-sensitive zones (ESZs) of national parks or wildlife sanctuaries, the environment ministry has said.ESZs of 10 km radius were meant to be “shock absorbers” and transition zones from areas of high to low protection for wildlife and biodiversity, as per the ministry’s 2011 guidelines on declaring such zones. The 2002 Wildlife Conservation Strategy also recommends a 10 km buffer around sanctuaries. The Supreme Court in December 2006 directed all states and Union territories to follow the strategy while hearing a plea over a delay in declaring ESZs.In letters dated July 24 and July 16 to chief secretaries of states and Union territories, the ministry said NBWL’s nod will be needed only for projects that require prior environment clearance or are located in areas linking one protected area to another.The ministry has accordingly changed the wording of the Handbook of Forest Conservation Act, 1980, which said: “Prior recommendation of standing committee of NBWL under the provisions of Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, is also required for taking developmental activities in/over an area falling within eco sensitive zones. ” It now reads: “Prior recommendation of Standing Committee of NBWL under the provisions of Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 shall be obtained, if required, for taking developmental activities in/over an area falling within eco sensitive zones.”The July 16 letter clarifies that proposals related to projects within a notified ESZ and those that require prior environment clearance will also require NBWL’s nod. It adds those that do not have a notified ESZ will require an NBWL nod only if the proposal requires prior environment clearance and is located within a 10 km radius of a protected area. Proposals for projects to be located in a corridor connecting one protected area to another will also require NBWL’s approval.Rest of the projects are exempt from NBWL’s consent. “State governments are requested not to insist upon wildlife clearance for such development projects outside protected areas that are not covered under para 3 [conditions listed above],” the July 16 letter said. HT has seen a copy of the letter.HT on August 17 last year reported that the ministry had published an office memorandum saying projects outside the boundary of a notified ESZ of a sanctuary or national park but within its 10 km radius will not need prior clearance from NBWL. Such proposals will get environmental clearance from the ministry’s expert appraisal committee, which will also ensure “appropriate conservation measures in the form of recommendations.” The memorandum nullified previous office memoranda of February 2007 and December 2009, which made NBWL’s approval mandatory for projects within a park’s 10 km radius.The ministry’s clarifications go a step further and say smaller projects, which do not fall under the purview of Environment Impact Assessment Notification, 2006, do not need to seek wildlife clearance no matter where they are located in buffer zones. Inland waterways and railways are also exempt from prior environmental clearance and hence will also be exempt from NBWL’s approval even if they fall in ESZs of protected areas.“Only projects that are eligible for prior EC [environmental clearance] will also need a wildlife clearance if they are located in the notified ESZ of a protected area or within a 10 km radius where ESZ is not notified,” said environment ministry secretary R P Gupta.Kanchi Kohli, a legal researcher at New Delhi’s Centre for Policy Research, said the clarifications read down the importance of ecologically sensitive areas by introducing phrases like “if necessary” when it comes to scrutiny. She cited social conflicts related to ESZ creation. “However one cannot rule out their importance as buffers or corridors that help protect biodiverse habitats. This is important more than ever before to mitigate climate change and prevent ecologically destructive regulatory decisions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wildlife-nod-not-required-for-rly-projects-ministry/story-Ik4I56MXDMxeQD0q5JQhlK.html
04-08-2020||India||Land for Bullet train project: Tendering to start within three months, says Railway board chief||One section of the Ahmedabad-Mumbai high-speed rail corridor is likely to be tendered out within three months after nearly 90% of the land acquisition for the project is completed, according to railway board chairman VK Yadav.Indian Railways has so far completed 76% of land acquisition in Gujarat and 24% in Maharashtra; overall 60% of land acquisition for the ambitious Bullet Train project has been completed, Yadav said in an interview. “In any mega project, the first thing we do is land acquisition and then we finalise the alignment. We have completed the alignment and designs. As on date, we have acquired 60% of the land...Due to Covid situation there was some slowdown in land acquisition, but it has started picking up now and we are sure over the coming six months, most of the land will be acquired.”Railways said last month that the high-speed rail corridor is expected to be completed on time despite the Covid-19 outbreak. The project connecting Mumbai and Ahmedabad has a deadline of December 2023.The project has had to contend with issues ranging from protests by landowners to rising costs because of a widening gap between the Indian rupee and the Japanese yen; 80% of the Rs 1 trillion needed to fund the project will come from a 20-year Japan International Cooperation Agency (Jica) loan.“In mega projects we go for tendering only when 90% of the land is acquired. We will be going ahead when we acquire some more land and a complete uninterrupted stretch of land is available. Project is progressing well. We will be going ahead with tendering within three months,” Yadav said.The project implementing agency National High-Speed Rail Corporation (NHSRCL), has also begun floating tenders for related civil works.The national transporter has begun feasibility studies on seven other potential high-speed corridors to gauge their financial viability and estimated traffic they will attract. Yadav said Indian Railways was exploring whether the corridors would be viable to run high-speed Bullet Trains with speeds above 300 kmph. The seven proposed corridors are Delhi -Varanasi, Varanasi- Howrah, Delhi – Ahmedabad, Mumbai– Nagpur, Mumbai – Hyderabad, Chennai – Mysore and Delhi –Amritsar.“We are working on seven high-speed corridors and four freight corridors. The normal time taken for a Detailed Project Report is one year. At this point of time I can say feasibility study has begun and we will be completing the feasibility studies of all these sections in one year, that is by July 2021,” Yadav said.“The feasibility report will give the answer to see which corridor will be suitable for Bullet Train speeds of 300-350 kmph or semi-high speed, ie 200-250 kmph,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/land-for-bullet-train-project-tendering-to-start-within-three-months-says-rly-board-chief/story-MOg2Te8vNHt458tQPKd9KJ.html
04-08-2020||India||Upload Covid-19 waste disposal data on app, says top court||Municipal corporations and state pollution boards have been mandated to upload data pertaining to collection and disposal of Covid-19 biomedical from residences and quarantine centres on an app created by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).The move comes after a direction by the Supreme Court last week, based on a slew of recommendations by the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (EPCA) that flagged the need for tracking and monitoring the biomedical waste as most of it went untreated after getting mixed with general waste. The EPCA, which assists Supreme Court on air pollution and environment issues, pointed out in its July 27 report that the CPCB has developed an App called ‘COVID19BWM’ on which tracking of such waste from the point of collection to its treatment is possible, provided all state municipalities and state pollution boards feed the required information.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIncorporating the EPCA recommendations in its order, a bench of justices Arun Mishra, BR Gavai and Krishna Murari said, “All municipal corporations and state pollution control boards are directed to use the COVID19BWM App. This is made mandatory and CPCB to track all the biomedical waste and ensure that it is being sent for treatment.”In addition, the court also directed the Centre and CPCB to work out a national barcode system or portal to track biomedical waste. The court has sought a compliance report on its directions by August 7, following which the matter will be heard on August 10.EPCA senior advocate Aparajita Singh said, “The volume of biomedical waste generated due to Covid-19 has shown an increase over the last three months. Much of this waste is not segregated at the homes and quarantine centres, from where it is generated. This requires public sensitisation by municipal bodies, as only then can biomedical waste be incinerated at the Common Bio-medical Waste Treatment Facilities (CBWTF).”EPCA, studying the pattern of waste generation in Delhi-NCR, noted that biomedical waste generation increased from 94 tonnes in May 2020 to 761 tonnes till July 24. There was no segregation between biomedical waste and other waste. It was noted by the EPCA that two municipal bodies in Delhi — South and North Municipal Corporations — were sending the biomedical waste to waste-to-energy plants instead of CBWTF.When Singh highlighted this problem to the Court, the bench directed all municipal corporations to educate households about segregation of biomedical waste into a yellow bag and send it for treatment only to CBWTF. “The waste energy plants are not designed to incinerate biomedical waste, which needs a double-incineration chamber and protocols for storage and emission control,” the court recorded in its order.The growing volume of biomedical waste is posing a worry to EPCA. Delhi has a capacity to treat 2,220 tonnes of biomedical waste in a month, followed by UP (1,656 tonnes/month), Haryana (288 tonnes/month) and Rajasthan (72 tonnes/month), EPCA stated in its report. “This will need to be carefully monitored and tracked as, in case the generation load increases, then other facilities like hazardous waste incinerators will have to be used for biomedical waste,” the report added.Besides, the court further directed all state pollution boards to ensure that the common facilities treating biomedical waste have an online emission monitoring system that can be monitored daily. In this regard, the contractors running these common facilities were directed to file compliance reports by the next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upload-covid-waste-disposal-data-on-app-says-top-court/story-i1qSzOIFt11ed97pkXCLBI.html
04-08-2020||India||Amid rising Covid-19 cases, Parliament’s Monsoon session may get pushed to Sept||New Delhi: A September schedule is starting to look more likely for the much-awaited monsoon session of Parliament as the chances of safely starting proceedings in August appear to be thinning due to the continued rise in Covid-19 cases in India, according to people with direct knowledge of the matter.India’s top legislative authorities, including Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla, are keeping a close watch on the status of the pandemic in the Capital and elsewhere to finalise the dates for the session. An improvement in Delhi in recent weeks offers a glimmer of hope, but greater progress in the Capital’s fight against Covid-19, and some measure of control in other parts of the country may be needed to ensure suitable attendance by members, the people cited above indicated.Under the Indian Constitution, the duration between the end of one session and the start of the next cannot exceed six months. So, Parliament has a window till September 23 to start the monsoon session, after the budget session ended on March 23, two days before a 68-day national lockdown kicked in.Once the dates are finalised, officials involved in the planning of the session say they would require at least four weeks to put the arrangements in place.“Monsoon session in August looks very tight. Both the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha secretariats have discussed a couple of seating options with the government. A final view on them is yet to be taken. Once the Union Cabinet decides, it will take about four weeks to put in place necessary arrangements,” said an official who asked not to be named. Logistical issues are challenge because scheduling the session will require special Covid-19 arrangements -- from the seating of MPs to ensure social distancing , to the timing of the proceedings in the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha, which are likely to work in shifts to avoid crowding. The session may be a short one, with lawmakers spread across different buildings and attending hybrid — mix of physical and digital — proceedings. “There’s not a heavy business to transact. The priority of the government is to clear the ordinances promulgated in the past few months and the Opposition might press for debates on the Covid pandemic and the Indo-China border conflict,” said a second official involved in the preparations.Officials close to Naidu said the Rajya Sabha chairman had secured isolation-related relaxations for MPs travelling to Delhi to attend Parliament or parliamentary committee meetings. “Naidu told the home ministry that government officials don’t have to undergo isolation after travelling to other places. If they can be exempted from isolation for doing official duty, MPs too travelling on official duty should be given the same exemptions. The home ministry has agreed,” a third official said. Giant screens to beam parliamentary proceedings, with engineers from the National Informatics Centre on call, and provisions for possible latency -- these are among the issues Naidu and Birla and their teams are discussing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-session-may-get-pushed-to-sept/story-ME9xo2w0UC2ZWV4QklwffJ.html
04-08-2020||India||People with oxygen saturation below 95% not allowed in gyms||Exercising in gymnasiums and yoga classes has been prohibited for people with an oxygen saturation level below 95%, according to standard operating procedures (SOPs) released by the health ministry on Monday, two days before the reopening of gyms and yoga schools shut because of the Covid-19 pandemic and ensuing lockdown.The ministry has directed operators of gyms and yoga schools to provide pulse oximeters to measure the oxygen saturation level of all their members before they start their exercise regimen.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage“…Those having oxygen saturation below 95% should not be allowed to continue exercise. Call central / state helpline / ambulance and refer such persons to the nearest health facility. Ensure availability of pulse oximeters to record oxygen saturation of members prior to the exercise,” read the guidelines.The health ministry has been releasing such SOPs from time to time, underlining preventive measures needed at public places such as religious shrines, hotels and restaurants where the risk of exposure to the virus is high, to contain the spread of Covid-19. Many yoga institutes have been making preparations to implement preventive measures needed in Covid-19 times before reopening their premises post the lockdown.“We used to have a clinic running within our institute wherein all our members would undergo a health check-up once before starting classes; now we will use the facility to medically examine all members before each class. Our instructors and teachers have also been trained to pick up signs of respiratory distress in members while performing exercises. Pulse oximeters and other relevant equipment will also be available within the premises to identify high-risk cases. All guidelines will be followed before we begin classes,” said Dr Ishwar Basavaraddi, director, Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga, ministry of Ayush. The health ministry has also asked gym and yoga school managers to calculate the maximum capacity per session based on redesigned spaces, and to accordingly schedule a session and inform members.“We have reduced admissions; instead of 30 members in a hall now we will only run a group session with 8-10 members; and outdoors we used to conduct classes with about 200 people, which will now be reduced to not more than 50 members,”Basavaraddi added.All spas, sauna, steam bath and swimming pools shall remain closed, as per the ministry.In order to maintain social distancing effectively, all equipment, including cardio and strength machines, must be placed 6 feet apart.“For air-conditioning/ventilation, the guidelines of CPWD {central public works department} shall be followed which emphasizes that the temperature setting of all air conditioning devices should be in the range of 24-30o C, relative humidity should be in the range of 40- 70%, intake of fresh air should be as much as possible and cross ventilation should be adequate,” the guidelines say.Lockers cab remain in use as long as social distancing is maintained.Gym administrators are in the process of making changes to their set-up to meet the requirements for reopening their facilities.“We are going through the guidelines to see how best these can be implemented. There is no question of not following the guidelines as safety of our members is our primary concern. We will be making changes accordingly before reopening the gym,” said Chetan Gaur, the main instructor at the Noida Golf Club gym.All gyms and yoga institutes in containment zones will remain shut, as per the health ministry directive.“Since containment zones are hotbeds, most activities that may lead to spread of the disease in these areas are still restricted. There is a standard directive for all facilities where people might gather in large numbers, to remain closed in these places,” said a health ministry official, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-with-oxygen-saturation-below-95-not-allowed-in-gyms/story-0W2wDlrgvcf1JerdwHtRvL.html
04-08-2020||India||Poonia met Pilot camp MLAs in July: Rajasthan cops||A Rajasthan police investigation of an alleged plot to topple the Ashok Gehlot government has found that the state’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president, Satish Poonia, met the Sachin Pilot camp of MLAs twice in July even as the BJP said it had nothing to do with the rebellion in the local unit of the Congress, an officer said on Monday . “Poonia met the Pilot camp MLAs twice between July 18 and July 29,” an officer who is part of the investigation, being carried out by the Special Operations Group (SOG), said on condition of anonymity. “The first meeting took place between July 18 and July 20 and the second meeting was on July 28. Both the meetings took place in Manesar,” in Haryana.When asked whether Poonia’s name had surfaced in the investigation, SOG’s additional director general of police Ashok Rathore said: “The case is under investigation and details related to findings of the investigation done so far cannot be revealed.” Pilot has been ousted as president of the Congress’s state unit and as deputy chief minister for a rebellion he mounted last month against the Gehlot government. Pilot and 18 legislators supporting him on July 12 questioned Gehlot’s leadership and called for his removal -- a demand the party leadership has resisted. Poonia denied meting any of the rebels. “I have never met Pilot or any other rebel MLA. Police are speaking the government’s language,” he said. Chief minister Gehlot hit out at the state BJP chief on July 30, alleging that he had been meeting Pilot camp legislators secretly. “If BJP leaders are not part of the conspiracy to topple the government then why do they go to Delhi at night and return early morning? Why do they go secretly,” Gehlot had asked. The next day, Poonia denied this through a tweet. “I heard the lecture of Ashok Gehlot. What is wrong in going to Delhi? You also go to Delhi and Mumbai? I will keep going to Delhi for party’s work,” he wrote.Poonia also denied that he was in touch with three independent MLAs – Suresh Tank (Kishangarh), Khushveer Singh (Marwar Junction) and Omprakash Hudla (Mahuwa) – who had gone to Banswara in first week of July and were in touch with at least five MLAs of Banswara, Dungarpur and Udaipur districts. The SOG had claimed that the independent MLAs had offered money to the Congress legislators to topple the Congress government. Mobile phones of the MLAs, Khushveer Singh, Suresh Tank and Omprakash Hudla, were switched off.  The SOG is investigating three cases registered under section 124A (sedition) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code for the alleged attempt to topple the state government. Officers from the SOG, state crime branch and anti-terror squad (ATS) are conducting the investigation. The first case was registered on July 10 on the basis of phone intercepts. Two persons –Ashok Jain of Banswara and Bharat Malani of Ajmer – were arrested on July 11 and are currently in jail. The second and third cases were registered on the basis of audio tapes in which some people were purportedly striking deals to pull down the Gehlot government.The SOG officers said that it was also investigating various modules that worked at the same time to lure the MLAs to topple the Congress government in Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/poonia-met-pilot-camp-mlas-in-july-raj-cops/story-up7XOyzfGbkjPy8Lbh15yK.html
04-08-2020||India||Five police personnel suspended after custodial death in Madhya Pradesh||Bhopal/Jabalpur: Five police personnel, including an in-charge of a police station, was suspended on Monday after a murder accused allegedly died by suicide in the police custody in Madhya Pradesh’s Narsinghpur district. According to police, the accused Narayan Singh (21), a resident of Chawarpatha village of the district, had attempted suicide at Bamori police outpost on Saturday. He was referred to Jabalpur medical college, where he died the following day. Suatala police station in-charge Ashok Dahiya, Barman police outpost in-charge OP Sharma, assistant sub-inspector (ASI) GS Rajput, constable Abhishek Pasi and woman constable Ruchi Shukla have been suspended on charges of dereliction of their duties, said Ajay Singh, superintendent of police (SP), Narsinghpur district. The SP said, “A resident of Bandi Peethera village of the district, Parmal Ladiya (28), was killed allegedly by his brother-in-law Amar Singh, a resident of Chawarpatha village along with his wife Uma and son Narayan on July 29. On the complaint of the murder victim’s family, Amar, Uma, and Narayan were arrested by the police on Saturday. Amar has confessed to the crime.” “Amar, Uma, and Narayan were in police custody at Bamori outpost, when Narayan tried to kill himself,” the SP said. Police have registered a first information report (FIR) on the suicide and a magisterial inquiry has been ordered in the matter of custodial death of the accused, the SP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-police-personnel-suspended-after-custodial-death-in-madhya-pradesh/story-wSRaynLwRV7x1Cs9kkL5bL.html
